the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Week analyzes college ‘hook-up culture’ 
Gender Relations Center sponsors programming to spread information about sexual violence and its prevention 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
The “work hard, play hard” mentality and “hook-up cul­ture” that partly contribute to sexual assault on college cam­puses are not unique to Notre Dame, Gender Relations Center Director Heather Russell said. 
From 2007 to 2009, there were 21 sex offenses — including eight forcible rapes 
— reported to campus law enforcement, according to annual statistics from Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and Saint Mary’s. NDSP reported eight assaults to the student body this school year. 
This week, the Gender Relations Center is sponsoring its annual Sexual Assault Awareness Week on campus. Sexual assault on college campus stems from the col­lege “hook-up culture,” Russell said. 
“Some Notre Dame students might feel that ‘no one dates’ and ‘everyone hooks up’ at this University,” Russell said. “In fact, these statements are both myths. Some people at Notre Dame date, and some don’t hook up.” 
College students tend to compartmentalize their lives and live with a “work hard, play hard” mentality when 
see WEEK/page 4 


LAUREN KALINOSKI/The Observer 



By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Earlier this year Notre Dame academia and the glamour of Hollywood collided in Park City, Utah, when Film, Television and Theatre Professor Danielle Beverly helped premiere the movie “Rebirth” at the Sundance Film Festival. 
“Rebirth” opened to a packed house Jan. 21. The film followed the lives of five New Yorkers in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the city. The film also features time-lapse footage of construction at 


Professor recalls Sundance Festival 
Ground Zero captured from cameras on site where the World Trade Centers once stood. 
Beverly, who spent the last nine years as a field producer for the film, said her trip to Sundance was unlike any of her previous experiences. 
“I’ve been to many film festi­vals, and Sundance is by far its own original, unique experi­ence,” she said. “I was able to connect with business col­leagues from all over the world, so that was terrific.” 
Beverly said part of what makes Sundance a special event is a passion for the film among the guests. 
“The audiences there are true, die-hard film lovers,” she said. “To come to a town off the beat­en path in Utah, in the middle of winter, says so much about audiences. They love film.” 
Beverly said the audience at the premiere was struck by the powerful human story in the documentary. 
“The film received two stand­ing ovations, and Michael Moore was in the audience two rows behind me,” she said. “The reception from that first audi­ence to the ‘Rebirth’ subjects, who were all on stage after-
see SUNDANCE/page 5 


Theses explore seniors’ interests 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
After almost four years at Notre Dame, seniors tackle unique senior theses — exploring topics ranging from “Bitch Culture” to sheepherd­ing. 
Senior Javi Zubizarreta traveled to his family’s home­land last year in Basque Country, an autonomous region in Spain, to film a doc­umentary on sheepherding. After completing this project with another student, Zubizarreta, a Film, Television and Theatre [FTT] major, said he decided to 
see THESES/page 4 




Students broadcast campusradioshows 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
“Sound of Notre Dame ” (WSND) and “Voice of the Fighting Irish ” (WVFI) broadcast an range of stu­dent radio shows that cover music, sports, politics and more. 
WSND airs on FM station 
88.9 to serve both Notre Dame and the surrounding area, and WVFI streams 
online for students at nd.edu/~wvfi 
Senior station manager Patrick Brown said WSND is a classical radio station dur­ing the day and a college rock station at night. 
“We pride ourselves in offering a very wide variety of music,” Brown said. “You won ’t just hear the ‘1812 Overture’ 24/7.” 
Both Notre Dame students and South Bend residents work at WSND, and Brown said the station unites these two groups. 
see RADIO/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council discusses job board site page 3  Women’s basketball beats West Virginia page 16  T.V. you should be watching page 8  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 23, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS T E BEST BEVERAGE ON CAMPUS?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Eric Prister John Cameron Kelsey Manning Carly Landon Cory Bernard 
Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Jordan Gamble 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 
Fla. police: Dispute over Thin Mints gets physical 
NAPLES, Fla. — Police say a brawl between roommates over Girl Scout cookies led to assault charges against one of them. According to the Naples Daily News, the Collier County Sheriff’s Office reports that 31-year­old Hersha Howard woke up her roommate early Sunday and accused her of eating her Thin Mints. 
They argued and deputies say that it turned physical with Howard chasing her roommate with scissors and hitting her repeatedly with a board and then a sign. 
Police say the roommate’s husband tried to separate them. The roommate said she gave the cookies to 

Patrizia Martellaro  Nicole Gantz  Wendy Hatch  Colin O’Neill  Alex Leonardo  Tamara Jones  
sophomore  freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Cavanaugh  Cavanaugh  Farley  Knott  McGlinn  Ryan  

“Butterbeer.” “Reckers’ “No. 9 “It’s a toss up “I like tazo iced “Crummy smoothies.” smoothies at between peace black with Cookie Reckers.” tea and Coke lemon.” milkshake from Zero.” the Huddle.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Howard’s children. 

Howard is charged with aggravated battery with a deadly weapon and aggra­vated assault with a deadly weapon. She was released Monday on $10,000 bail. 
A telephone listing for Howard could not be imme­diately found. 
Ind. eatery pulls billboards with cult references 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. — A northern Indiana restau­rant that erected billboards referring to the 1978 Jonestown cult massacre in which more than 900 peo­ple died has removed the signs following complaints that the signs were offen­sive. 
Jeff Leslie, vice president of sales and marketing at Hacienda, acknowledged that the billboards were a mistake. He said the South Bend-based company ordered the signs removed less than two weeks into Hacienda’s new advertising campaign. 
“Our role is not to be con­troversial or even edgy. We want to be noticed — and there’s a difference,” Leslie told the South Bend Tribune. “We have a responsibility to (advertise) with care, and that’s why we’re pulling this ad. We made a mistake and don’t want to have a negative image in the community.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture and dinner discus­sion titled “5 More Years ... People, Power, Politics in Post-election Uganda” will be held today by the Center for Social Concerns at 5 p.m. in Geddes Hall. This is a dinner discussion created by students for students to just talk about the issues involved in Uganda. 
The lecture “Evil and the Healing Ministry of Exorcism” will be presented tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. Fr. Jeffrey Grob, J.C.D., priest of the Archdiocese of Chicago, will present the lecture which is sponsored by Morrissey Hall and Campus Ministry. 
Mike Smith will be reading from his poetry collection, Multiverse, and Jared Randall will be reading from his poetry collection, Apocryphal Road Code, tonight in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Both Randall and Smith are graduates of Notre Dame’s MFA Program in Creative Writing 
“Proof,” a play by David Auburn, will be presented tonight at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 
7:30 p.m. Tickets are $15 for regular admission, $12 for seniors, and $10 for stu­dents/youth. The show runs every night until Feb. 26. 
Don McMillan will perform the comedy show, “Technically Funny,” tonight at Legends Nightclub at 8 
p.m. The show is part of National Engineering Week and is being sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


36 34 HIGH 3833 2827
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


32 30 LOW 2717 2124 






Wednesday, February 23, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Prof. researches body image 
By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Bettina Spencer, professor of psychology at Saint Mary’s and senior psychology major Gina Stori presented research on Tuesday evening at Saint Mary’s about female body image on the Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame campuses. 
The lecture, titled “Love your body? Body image at SMC com­pared to ND,” occurred Tuesday evening in Vander Vennet Theatre in the Saint Mary’s Student Center. 
Stori and two other Saint Mary’s students joined Spencer’s research team, and the profes­sor chose to focus the research on female body image. 
The group distributed a survey to 175 female students from both Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame. They gave participants several drawings of a female fig­ure. They then asked partici­pants to select the figure they believed to be most attractive to 
males, to females and to themselves . Additionally, the students were asked which image they felt closest resembled their own body and which image they most desired for their own body. 
The team said the survey offered insight 

eral hypotheses. They predicted body ideal by their senior year,” the students at the single-sex Spencer said. school would endorse a thinner The research team said sever-body ideal, report more trait al possible factors could cause 
objectification and show high­er levels of social compari­son. 
The research statistics showed that although Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame female first-year students enter with the same ideal body image, senior students at the two schools show different results after four years in college. 
While the study showed no significant 
“These diverging statistics show that Saint Mary’s students are endorsing health­ier body ideals by their senior year, and Notre Dame female students are endorsing a thinner and thinner body ideal by their senior year.” 
Bettina Spencer professor Department of Psychology 
the dissimilar development at the two schools. These factors included expo­sure to counter-stereotypic role models, the number of stu­dents taking Women’s Studies courses and the presence of males on cam­pus, Spencer said. 
Stori said the results have received strong reactions from students on both campuses. 
“This should be a big red flag,” Stori said. 

difference in self-objectification and social comparison among 
“This should be a big red fag. It is terrible that women at a respected institution like Notre Dame are leaving feeling inadequate.” 
Gina Stori senior 
females at the two schools, the researchers were shocked by the body image development at the two campus­es. 
Spencer said seniors at Notre Dame showed a thinner ideal body image than students at Saint Mary’s. 
“These diverg­ing statistics “It is terrible that women at a respected institution like Notre Dame are leaving feeling inade­quate.” 
Spencer said she plans to expand her research to other schools, preferably other coedu­cational schools with single-sex sister schools, to see if other campuses show similar results. 
Stori said she plans to stay on board and assist Spencer in the additional research on the press­ing topic. 
“Further research will enable us to pinpoint what is driving the students’ feeling of body image insufficiency,” Stori said. “I hope that both male and female stu­dents are taking these results as seriously as they should.” 


Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade01@saintmary.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Representatives debate campus job board site 
service to students because 
By JOHN CAMERON 
you should have one spot 
News Writer 
where you can find all the 
employment opportunities,” 
At this week’s Council of she said. “Especially consid-Representatives (COR) meet-ering how many people are ing, student body president employed on campus.” Catherine Soler sought feed-Ricky Bevington, director of 
back on possi­ble reforms to the student employment process at Notre Dame. 
Feedb ack from students during the campaign sea­son brought the problems with the job board site to Soler’s atten­tion, she said. 
“A little 
over 40 per ­cent of stu ­dents have a job on campus so obviously student the First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership (FUEL), said the 
“A little over 40 
job board should 
percent of students contain informa­tion on all types 
have a job on campus 
of on -campus 
so obviously student 
positions, not employment is just those cur ­rently looking 
something that 
for applicants. 
affects a lot of 
“I think it 
people.” would still be nice to have a list of all the 
Catherine Soler 
positions, not 
student body president 
necessarily a 
employment is something that affects a lot of people,” she said. “Some of the com­plaints we’ve heard is that the website really isn’t com­prehensive, it’s not updated all the time and there are a lot more jobs that are avail­able that aren’t on the web­site.” 
Soler said she contacted the Office of Student Employment, part of the Office of Financial Aid, to inquire about the process of 
assembling the job board. 
“Departments are supposed to reach out to [the Office] with 
opportunities for jobs to go up there,” she said. “And then they’ re sup ­posed to contact [the Office] when it ’s filled.” 
Soler said the position avail ­
able to apply for 
at the time,” he 
said. “So they see the times when those people may be hired, or even the people to contact for them ... so they know how to plan for the future and know when to look.” 
Off-campus president Ryan Hawley said he thought the board could be updated more efficiently if additions did not have to be made through someone in the Office of Student Employment. 
“Maybe we can develop a system where it’s not con­trolled by just 
one person,” he said. “So regarding the students’ self-con­cept, social comparison and self-objectification. 
Before conducting the research, the group formed sev­show that Saint Mary’s students are endorsing healthier body ideals by their senior year, and Notre Dame female students are endorsing a thinner and thinner 


“Maybe we can [that person] doesn’t have to 
develop a system 
solicit all of 
where it’s not con-
them, that 
trolled by just one everyb ody from every 
person.” 
department can just log on Ryan Hawley and put jobs 
off-campus president up there.” 
Soler said 
the Office of 
Student 
number of students seeking or participating in campus employment warrants a more comprehensive and helpful site. 
“I think this is a great dis-Employment was receptive to ideas on improving the job board in the future. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 23, 2011 
The University recently underage drinking, have also one of the contributing rea-while intoxicated, this may responded to recent criticism occurred. sons for the high number of impact the reporting process 
Week 

of its handing of sexual mis-“These behaviors are not sexual assaults against col-and healing process for the continued from page 1 conduct charges in a Feb. 17 condoned by the University lege-age women. survivor,” Adams said. 
statement. but the importance of dealing “While an assault can cer-Adams also said underlying they try to manage the pres-“The unfortunate reality is with them pales in compari-tainly happen in settings social issues at the college sures of any high-achieving that sexual misconduct is a son to the need to address where alcohol is not involved, level are the root of problems university, Russell said. serious issue at colleges and instances of alleged sexual research shows that the with sexual assault. 
“When an ethic of ‘work universities across the coun-misconduct,” the policy states. majority of sexual assaults on “This is why violence and hard and play hard’ becomes try, and we are not immune,” “Accordingly, in these cases college campuses involve abuse impact communities the operative norm, students the statement said. “Sexual the University alcohol use by across the country,” she said. naturally segment their lives misconduct on college cam-will not pursue either assailant “The issues of sexual assault, and their behavior according-puses almost always involves d i s c i p l i n a r y or victim,” Firth relationship violence and 
“The issues of sexual 
ly,” she said, “Working hard students who are acquainted, action against said. “This trend stalking impact college-age from Monday to Thursday and and alcohol use by one or a student who assault, relationship is reflected on women at disproportionately playing hard for the week-both parties is a factor in claims to be a violence and stalking our own cam -higher rates than other popu­end.” many instances.” victim of a sex-pus, in terms of lations.” 
impact college-age
This attitude does not create The University’s Sexual ual assault in the reported The University’s statement healthy relationships and Misconduct and Sexual c o n n e c t i o n women at cases of sexual said Notre Dame is dedicated encourages binge drinking, Assault Policy states that with the disproportionately assault.” to thorough investigation of Russell said, and intoxication intoxication inhibits the abili-reporting of Connie Adams, all sexual assault allegations. 
higher rates than
becomes the driving force ty to consent to sexual activi-that sexual assistant direc-“Notre Dame takes very behind the hook-up culture at ty. assault, or other populations.” tor of the Belles seriously its obligation to most colleges. “A person incapacitated by against stu -Against Violence thoroughly investigate every 
“Intoxication allows stu-alcohol or drug consumption, dents named as Office, said Saint allegation of sexual miscon-
Connie Adams 
dents to choose to use each or who is unconscious or witnesses to Mary’s estab -duct, particularly in light of 
assistant director
other for sexual gratification, asleep or otherwise physically the incident.” lished a similar the gravity, complexity and 
Belles Against Violence 
choices the same person likely impaired, is incapable of giv-Ann Firth, amnesty policy sensitivity of these cases,” the would not make if he or she ing consent,” the policy states. chair of the in its Code of statement said. “Those who were sober,” she said. “In The Sexual Assault and University’s Committee on Student Conduct to encourage do this important work on our other instances, college stu-Misconduct Policy at Notre Sexual Assault Prevention students to access the campus are highly qualified dents fail to make time to Dame also addresses stu -(CSAP), said alcohol is the College’s resources without and extremely confident.” build friendships — their dents’ reluctance to report the number one date rape drug fear of repercussion for would-be support system dur-occurrence of an assault when on college campuses around underage drinking. Contact Megan Doyle at ing their college years.” other rule violations, such as the country, and this reality is “If an individual is assaulted mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Theses 
continued from page 1 
revisit his personal history through his senior thesis. 
“I was in the Basque Country on a research grant through the Nanovic Research Center and the Undergraduate Research pro­gram. My family were all herders, so I wanted to docu­ment it,” he said. “I was real­ly pleased with how the film turned out, so I decided to go back to the topic.” 
Zubizarreta’s work on his thesis, titled “What Aitxitxe Said” (What Grandfather Said), began during his junior year. 
“For FTT, I’m in the honors program. Junior year, based on GPA and teacher recom­mendation, you get in and decide what to do your thesis about,” he said. “Many FTT students might write a play, make a film, and I’ve known some who have done costume design.” 
Each department sets differ­ent requirements for the sen­ior thesis, but Zubizaretta said the FTT thesis is very open to personal creativity. The department reviews the­sis proposals junior year, and if approved, research begins senior year. The thesis is due in late spring. 
Like Zubizarreta, senior Rob Gallagher found his thesis inspiration abroad. Gallagher, an Arabic Studies and history major, is currently studying the relationship between the Egyptian military perform­ance in the Arab-Israeli wars in 1967 and 1973. 
“Between the Arab-Israeli wars in 1967 and 1973, the Egyptian senior military lead­ership reevaluated their mili­tary based on their new more realistic understanding of its capabilities,” Gallagher said. “I’m trying to explain why the process took place when it did.” 
Gallagher said his thesis was sparked by questions he encountered while studying abroad in Cairo and Amman. The thesis also allows him to reach his academic goals. 
“I took a military history class last semester that got me thinking about the rela­tionship between military and society in general in Arab countries,” he said. “From there I just kept narrowing down the topic until I got down to something manage­able.” 
American Studies and Spanish double major Catherine Scallen focused her thesis on the United States. She currently is writing her thesis to analyze an American phenomena she dubbed “Bitch Culture.” 
“I spend a lot of time at the mall and noticed that there are a large amount of prod­ucts marketed towards women that all revolve around the word or concept of being a ‘Bitch’” she said. “These products, however, are not touted as derogatory and offensive, but rather ironic and humorous.” 
Many Urban Outfitters prod­ucts such as glasses, snow globes and birthday banners served as a starting point for her thesis project, Scallen said. 
“I first got the idea for my thesis from a glass at Urban that says ‘Bitch’ in swirly sil­ver script on it,” Scallen said. “I’m wondering why these products exist, why women are buying them and what that says about contemporary women in America.” 
Scallen said she was curious as to how “Bitch Culture” reflects the way the way American women view them­selves and are perceived by 
others. Her investigation included research on the rela­tionship guide “Why Men Love Bitches,” the diet book “Skinny Bitch,” the calendar “Bitch a Day” and a brand of wine called Bitch Bubbly. 
“I’m especially interested in how feminists are apparently attempting to reclaim the word ‘bitch’ as a term of empowerment and strength,” she said. “It’s something being done by the feminist publica­tion ‘Bitch: A Feminist Response to Pop Culture,’ whose offices I got to visit with a grant over Christmas break.” 
As Scallen and Gallagher develop their theses through broader societal lenses, Zubizarreta’s thesis balances domestic and ethnic influ­ences while also depicting the more personal story of his grandfather. 
“I came up with the idea when I stayed in Lekeitio, which is where mom’s family comes from. We had hiked up this hill, with snakes and wild boars, in the middle of nowhere and amazingly, the hotel had Wi-Fi,” he said. “I checked my e-mail and found out I received the Princess Grace Award.” 
The Princess Grace Award is a grant aimed at sponsoring film, dance and theater. Zubizarreta said receiving the award caused him to rework his thesis. Through this revi­sion, he said, he was able to express gratitude for his grandfather. 
“It was the first time Notre Dame nominated someone, and no way did I think it was possible to win,” he said. 
After discussing his new goal with his brother on a train, he realized the grant gave him more opportunity to expand the film. 
“My family left for better life and I was back with the opportunity for this film. With the funding, I realized that I didn’t have to just tell a story,” Zubizarreta said. “I had to tell the story.” 
Zubizarreta cast family members in lead roles and said he hopes to premiere the film in Basque Country. 
While his senior thesis gave Zubizarreta the chance to create a project with personal meaning, he and Scallen also said their work could con­tribute to their future careers as well. 
“My friends joke about how this ‘Bitch’ project will surely open oh-so-many doors for me in the corporate world of employment ... something my dad doesn’t find quite as funny,” Scallen said. 
Zubizarreta said he will submit his film to festivals, including the Sundance and Tribeca film festivals, where he hopes to further establish his place in the international film community. 
“I would love to work in Basque Country as a filmmak­er. These trips have helped me make connections,” he said. “But ultimately, it’s very personal and has the goal of shedding light on my culture, background and people.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 



Wednesday, February 23, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Sundance 
continued from page 1 
wards, was so beautifully warm and engaged.” 
As field producer, Beverly reg­ularly interacted with the sub­jects, conducting interviews and keeping track of their lives. She said being involved with such a group of people made filming “Rebirth” an amazing experi­ence. 
“They welcomed me and our crew into their lives and homes in such a gracious, generous way,” Beverly said. “I adore them all.” 
Beverly said she knew the film would have an impact with audiences after she met with director and producer Jim Whitaker. She said the longitu­dinal aspect of the film allows the audience to experience emotions along with the sub­jects. 
“Grief is thorny and not easily mapped, but we all must resiliently recover from it in some way. This is human nature,” Beverly said. “And because [Sept. 11] was a nation­al loss, I knew the film would stand as a metaphor that others could hook into, to process their own losses.” 
Beverly is currently working on a project dealing with gentri­fication and race in a Southern town. She said this is a very dif­ferent experience than “Rebirth.” 
“Unlike ‘Rebirth,’ where I worked with a crew as the field producer, my latest documen­tary is one I’ve shot, directed and produced as a solo crew over the last three years,” she said. “I love working this way, just me and my camera. Initially I moved there to live in the com­munity I was filming for the first year, and then again last sum­mer.” 
In addition to making films, Beverly said she looks forward to continue working as a teacher. 
“I will continue on my same path, which is to make docu­mentaries that matter, that change hearts and minds, and that pay deep respect to those in front of the camera,” she said. “I also have fallen in love with teaching and look forward to working with students for a long time to come.” 
Beverly said Notre Dame stu­dents looking to pursue the cin­ema should remain true to the spirit of the University in their careers. 
“That earnest drive, humility, curiosity and respect that I see every day in my students will serve them well in the film industry,” she said. “It is a falla­cy to think that one needs hard-nosed drive to be successful in the film business. Rather, it is being caring, understanding and hard-working that makes anyone stand out.” 
Contact Tony Rivera at rrivera3@nd.edu 
her appreciation for classi-garners only 550 listeners cal music through her per week because it only 


Radio 

shows. appeals to Notre Dame stu­continued from page 1 “It’s expanded my knowl-dents. 
edge of music a hundred WVFI broadcasts a range 

“We [are] a meeting place times more than I would get of niche shows hosted by for both Notre Dame and in the class -different stu­the South Bend community,” room,” Johnson dents. This Brown said. said. “[WVFI] seemed like semester’s 
Brown said WSND garners T h e W V F I lineup includ­
the perfect outlet for

8,000 to 10,000 listeners at office in ed a dating 
me to share my

a time because it spans a LaFortune advice pro ­wide audience. Student Center music with others gram hosted WSND broadcasts from offers diverse by a graduate 
and discover new 

the clock tower of student-run student under 
kinds of music.” 

O’Shaughnessy Hall, and programming the alias according to Brown, this that included 70 “ E m m a vantage point is an asset for different shows Nicolle Walkling Woodhouse,” those who work at the sta-this semester. a college rock 
senior station manager

tion. Senior station show called 
“Not that many people manager Nicolle “We rewolf know we’re up there but … Walkling said Bar Mitzvah” we have this great view of she joined WVFI her fresh-hosted by senior Brooke South Quad,” Brown said. man year because she Healy and “Hungover, ” a “Every time wanted to music show with weekly the sun sets, share her love themes hosted by seniors we watch “It’s expanded my of music with Colin Rich and Kennedy that over knowledge of music a students. Collins. campus, and “ [ W V F I ] Collins said his show ’s 
hundred times more
we’re really seemed like the title was inspired by his for-lucky to have than I would get in a perfect outlet mer Sunday morning times-that view. It’s for me to share lot at 10 a.m. 
classroom.” 
definitely a my music with The show now streams benefit of others and dis-online at 11 a.m. Friday 
Kate Johnson
working at cover new mornings, but Collins said WSND.” sophomore k i n d s o f “Hungover” is still an appli-
Sophomore m u s i c , ” cable title for the program. Kate Johnson Walkling said. “We cover elaborate hosted a classical request “I hoped to find a communi-themes that we usually program Sunday afternoons ty that loved music as much come up with at trivia night and a specialty as me and an activity that I at Legends the night “Taffelmusic” show Friday felt was worthwhile.” before,” Collins said. afternoons on WSND last Unlike WSND, WVFI is semester. Johnson, a music completely student -run. Contact Tori Roeck at major, wanted to exercise Walkling said the station vroeck@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, February 23, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Mendoza majors 

Some of us thought the day would never come. But, as sophomores, the fateful moment of choosing a major within Mendoza finally sprang upon us last week. 
As I am sure was the case with many others, my roommates and I spent last week agonizing over the fact that a selection from an online drop-down box was 


Matthew Robison 
going to decide the rest of our Sports lives. For those Production of you in the Editor same boat, you know exactly what I’m talking about. For those of you who are not, you are probably thinking “You’re a business major, how stressful could your aca­demic experience possibly be?” 
But as it was, the questions swirling in our heads were endless. Do I want to be an accounting major and have nearly guaranteed job security? Do I want to be a finance major and enter an indus­try with almost unlimited earning potential? Do I want to be an IT man­agement major and potentially work for some of the most exciting companies in the world? And the list went on. 
Advice from teachers, classmates, upperclassmen, parents and advisors sometimes left us with even more ques­tions than answers. It seemed like we were at a point in the road of life and we had to choose one of six pathways that would permanently impact our lives. Indeed, in some ways we were. The choice was laid out before us: accounting, finance, management con­sulting, management entrepreneurship, IT management or marketing. It was one of these labels that would lead us into six seemingly separate ways of life. 
But, I still refuse to believe that last week I made one decision that would shape my entire life. When I chose “Management Entrepreneurship” from that fateful dropdown box, also with a second major in psychology, I do not believe that I labeled myself an entre­preneurial psychologist or a psychologi­cal entrepreneur. In the same way, I do not think anyone should label them­selves an accountant, a sociologist, a mechanical engineer or a chemist. At this point in our lives, we are simply students, and that is a wonderful thing. 
In the future, when our career paths are more defined, a label like that might be more appropriate. But even then, we will be so much more than our profes­sion. We will be mothers, fathers, aunts, uncles, friends and mentors. Hopefully, we will all be well-rounded individuals with a large body of knowledge and experience with which we can approach the world. It was for that reason that we came to this University: to receive the guidance necessary to be educated, wise, balanced people that would enter the world prepared for its challenges. We can trust in Our Lady and know that she’s provided us with such. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The Observer endorses Palmer-Parsons ticket 
Focus on technology and access to funding reflects dedication to communication 
Taking into account past experience, preparation and overall mote collaboration and support between clubs as well as feasibility of their platform, The Observer Editorial Board improve the process clubs and organizations have to go through endorses Saint Mary’s juniors Cassandra Palmer and Maureen to receive their allotments for the year. Parsons’ past experience Parsons for the 2011-12 student body president and vice presi-with campus clubs and current position on the Finance Board dent respectively. Palmer, Student Government Association will help make a smooth transition for clubs seeking possible (SGA) missions commissioner, and Parsons, SGA 
spring allotments and organization leaders who are campus clubs commissioner, have the most rele-new to the process. At the beginning of this aca­vant experience to address the needs and wants demic year, several clubs did not receive funds, and of the student body. The ticket wants to address were forced to go through an appeal process the “little things” around campus, which they because of a lack of education in applying for allot-believe will make the most difference for stu-ments and sponsorships. Palmer and Parsons dents. intend to have club socials and hold a financial 
Improving technology in the residence halls — including printers in each of the buildings — simplifying the process to receive club allotments at the beginning of the year and encouraging student involvement on campus events are the ticket’s primary goals. 
Candidates for student body president and vice president have been trying to increase printers on campus in the Student Center and residence halls for the past few years. Palmer and Parsons have plans to attack the issue that they believe will finally prove effective. 
In preparation for their potential time leading SGA, Palmer and Parsons have familiarized themselves with the problems that installing printers would pose and they hope to team up with Information Technology for regular meetings to discuss the best approach to the situation. 
Maintenance and financial issues have prevented past offices from successfully adding printers to the residence halls. In addi­tion to improving technology, Palmer and Parsons plan to pro-
seminar to help explain the process to club presi­dents and treasurers. 
Finally, Palmer and Parsons hope to improve communication between students and SGA in order to increase student involve­ment and to hear what students believe to be the most pressing problems facing the College. SGA has held open forums in the past, but they have mostly resulted in low attendance and little feedback. 
Palmer has suggested moving the meetings to the Student Center Lounge to make them more accessible. They have decid­ed to continue supplying students with comment cards and encouraging people to make comments on SGA’s Facebook page. 
Overall, Palmer and Parsons can bring the best experience to the office and they have prepared themselves to lead the student body. 
The Observer Editorial Board endorses the Palmer and Parsons ticket for Saint Mary’s student body president and vice president. 
UWIRE 

King of Bahrain firmly entrenched 
The situation in the Middle East keeps getting worse, like a bad math equation that will not balance itself out. After Hosni Mubarak’s ouster in Egypt, so-called democratic revo­lutions struck Libya and Yemen. Now it is Bahrain’s turn. But before we muster up another dollop of heart-felt compassion for the people of Bahrain, we should ponder why and where the equation Manan M. Desai has gone wrong. An Egypt-style mass revolution is not necessarily Daily Evergreen the solution. 
The argument from the people of Bahrain seems to revolve around the same “pro-democracy and down with the current administration” rhetoric that has filled a few nations in the neighborhood recently. This outcry is not really surprising when you consider what the adminis­tration in Bahrain looks like. 
According to the BBC, Bahrain’s King Sheikh Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifah has been the all-powerful entity since 1999. He controls the parliament and elects members to the Upper House — including the prime minister, who has remained in power since 1971. All this is evidence enough that Bahrain is really a pseudo-democracy, which is not something that any population would choose to endure for too long. 
While seemingly ripe for its own revolution, Bahrain and Egypt’s protests are far removed from each other. 
Firstly, looking at the economics of the island nation, it is easy to rule out that economic development is the problem right now. The per capita GDP of Bahrain is $25,420, accord­ing to 2009 World Bank statistics, a figure comparable to many developed countries. On the other hand, per capita GDP of Egypt hovers around the $2,000 mark and 40 percent of Egyptians live on the poverty line, earning just $2 a day while Mubarak was raking in billions. 
Secondly, the difference between toppling a single dictator in Egypt and a monarchy in power since 1783 in Bahrain, which has complete control over the administration, is vast. In Egypt’s case, the military was determined to protect the citizens from violent clashes with the Egyptian police. But being a monarchy, the Bahrain King sent out an absolute message to the people protesting in Pearl Square on Feb. 17 
— go home or perish. Unlike Mubarak, he has the backing of the military. 
Lastly, the crux of the uprising is deciphered by reading between the lines; an old religious rift which has time and again raised its rather inconvenient head. It revolves around the clash between the two Muslim sects — Shia and Sunni, which has gone on for a few hundred years. The majority of Bahrain’s population are Shiite who are ruled over by a minority Sunni regime — a fact which is reflected in Saudi Arabia’s soft spot toward Bahrain. The popular belief in the administration also seems to be that Iran is fueling the fervor on the streets of Bahrain. Of course, this notion stems from the fact that Iran has a Shia regime. It is speculation at its best. 
Self-flagellation by the common person is hardly the answer to an administrative problem. Bahrain has been a prosperous nation for a while now. The absolute last thing it needs is a religious-based wound opening up for radical opportunists to take advantage of. The need of the hour is for both the people and regime of Bahrain to maintain peace and hopefully put an end to any further violent clashes. They need to take the lead and show the proper way forward for other nations to follow. 
This column originally appeared in the Feb. 21 edition of the Daily Evergreen, serving Washington State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you plan to watch the Oscars on Sunday night? 
“Criminal: A person with predatory 
Yes, but only to see what everyone's 
instincts who has not sufficient
wearing 
capital to form a corporation.” 
Yes, definitely I can’t, but I want to 
Howard Scott 
economist
No way, I wouldn’t ever get that time back Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 23, 2011 page 7 
Fun with eye contact 
Many people mistakenly think you need a board game, an Internet connection or a 40 to have some fun. Wrong, wrong and accurate but not the answer I have in 
Brooks Smith 
mind. All you need 
Humanity’s Bro 
is a side­walk full of strangers to amuse yourself endlessly. That, and the ability to see. If you are blind you will find the activities I am going to describe difficult, or even impos­sible, to carry out properly. The game is called “Eye Contact.” A fundamental feature of human nature: Making eye contact with a stranger on the sidewalk (or anyone in the range of stranger to distant acquaintance) is off-putting, unnerving, for the other participant. It knocks them off balance for just a moment. You will exploit this temporary vul­nerability for your own amuse­ment. 
1) “The Twitch.” This is the easiest eye-contact activity to pull off well. Make eye contact with the other person, make sure they notice, and then begin contracting the muscles around or under one eye rapidly. Try to make it appear that you are hav­ing a seizure. If the other person gives you a horrified stare, you have won. If not, you’re ready for game No. 2: 
2) “The Horrified Stare.” It helps to have a very expressive face for this one. Make eye con­tact with the other person when they are close enough to read your facial expression, then widen your eyes, contract and raise your eyebrows just slightly, and open your mouth — don’t gape, but move your mouth like you’re about to gasp. If you can curl your lower lip downwards in disgust, so much the better. Try to maintain the eye contact, and the expression, for as long as possible People who are advanced at the horrified stare may want to work in groups of two or more. Multiple horrified stares make the other person feel much more self-conscious. 
Additionally, if you are in a group, you can whisper furiously but inaudibly to one another once your victim has passed by, enhancing the self-consciousness effect. I don’t give conditions under which you ‘win’ at the horrified stare, because you really can’t lose. 
3) “The Sultry Wink.” Ahh, the wink. There are as many differ­ent winks as there are people. All winks, however, share one essential feature, which can be described as closing one eye (either one will do, although most people will have an intrin­sic preference or ‘wink handed­ness’) while keeping the other eye open. Some people are able to move one eyelid without the other, while others will need to scrunch up their face to perform a wink. The key to this one is the sultriness. Here I find it neces­sary to be brutally candid: Not everyone can pull off a sultry wink. The test is simple. Look in the mirror and wink at yourself, or wink at a friend, and ask their reaction. If they, or you, burst out in fits of giggles, it’s not going to work. Although it’s not strictly necessary, it helps to be an attractive girl in order to wink convincingly. If the other person’s ears, face, or neck begin to redden, you have won. 
4) “The Snort of Involuntary Laughter.” This one is devastat­ing. Deliberately make eye con­tact, then release a brief snort and smile slightly while breaking the eye contact. It helps to bend forwards a little—the further the bend, the greater the perceived amusement. Subtlety is key to the snort. It’s not necessary to point, laugh uproariously, or oth­erwise call attention to your-self—this may tip the other per­son off that the social error lies with you and not them. However, if you are playing this game with a group of friends, it’s accept­able to nudge one another or whisper back and forth, while looking at the victim. If the other person puts a hand up to their face to examine it or checks their shirt for stains, you have won. 
So there you have it. With these four techniques under your belt, you’ll be able to enjoy yourself in almost any situation that involves walking and fea­tures other pedestrians (which is quite a few). Just don’t try #4 on any football players coming your way. 
Brooks Smith is a senior hon­ors mathematics major and can be reached at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Right to work 
My fellow students, 

I am not sure if you are aware of what is cur­rently going on in our state’s capital, however, our legislators are engaged in what is surmount­ing to be a huge battle over labor rights and the right of the worker to collective bargaining, by way of labor unions. Until recently, I was not too familiar with what a “Right to Work” law meant, however, upon research and through discussions with family members and friends from back home heavily involved in the union movement, I have learned of the gravity of a “Right to Work” law and the potential impact that it can have on workers in our state. According to a “Right to Work” laws, non-union employees can benefit from collective bargaining without paying union dues. This, thereby, weakens unions, results in lower wages for workers, and jeopardizes the health and safety of workers statewide. According to the National Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average worker in a “Right to Work” state makes about $5,333 less a year than workers in other states. Moreover, advocates of “Right to Work” bills neglect the fact that federal law already protects non-union employees from paying union dues insofar as they violate their religious or political beliefs. In addition, the US Supreme Court has already ruled that non-union employees need only to pay the proven propor­tion of dues that unions spend to represent them, costs which must be thoroughly laid forth and can be challenged before dispensation. The National Bureau of Labor Statistics also reports that there are 51 percent more workplace deaths and 21 percent less health insurance in states where such laws are in place. Labor unions play a vital role in our state and the weakening of the power of unions is sure to have drastic detrimen­tal effects on Indiana’s workers. So, my fellow students, I challenge you to do your part as informed citizens and soon to be members of the workplace and stand against the “Right to Work” legislation in the state of Indiana. 
Erin Wright 
sophomore Pangborn Hall Feb. 21 


The whole story behind condemnatation 
The letter “Story behind condemnation” (Feb. 21) did well to inform us about the origins of why homosexual activity is condemned. However, even though it gives a side that I had yet to fully consid­er, pagan rituals, it still fails to give the entire story. 
What the letter was saying was the fact that homosexual relations lack procreation is not the reason why it is condemned, but because it was involved in pagan rituals. Infertility is not the only condemning characteristic, but it is a key factor as to why it is deemed sinful. What Mr. Bailey failed to notice is that this view truly is in the Bible. In Genesis 1:28 (NAB), God instructs Adam and Eve to “be fruitful and multiply.” Now, hold back your objections for just a second. I accept that many parts of the Bible should not be taken literally, and Genesis, the Creation Story in particular, is a prime example. However, the appropriate action, in this case, is to find out the meaning behind these words and what the story is trying to teach us. From the creation story, we learn that the ultimate purpose of a union between two people is to procreate, or “make babies.” A union between two men or two women, obviously does not fulfill this purpose, thus going against God’s plan. 
So further strengthening that the homosexual act, not orientation, is a sin, there are now two strong arguments. One, that it took place in pagan worship and God wants us to abstain from such activity so that we may be closer to him. And two, it is indeed condemned because of infertility as the Bible shows us in Genesis, one of our foundational and well-known stories, the Creation Story. 
Allison Kincaid 
sophomore Le Mans Hall Feb. 21 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, February 23, 2011 



By TROY MATHEW 
Scene Writer 

“It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” is not for the easily offended. The show focuses on a group of friends who own a shoddy bar in Philadelphia. At the center of the commotion is the Reynolds family, 
cal statement T-shirts elicit laughs on a regular basis. Charlie is the bar’s resident handy man, whose unpleasant jobs include cleaning the restrooms, killing rats and whatever else the other bar own­ers are too lazy to do. Currently in it sixth season, Always Sunny is 


their outrageously-egotistic viewpoint, propel an absurd storyline dealing with social issues such as home­lessness, abortion, underage drinking, terrorism and illegal immigration. Further initiating the humor are Dennis’ childhood friends, the laughably bizarre Mac and Charlie (Rob McElhenney and Charlie er its hazy memories from the Halloween party in order to figure out who impreg­nated Dee. Such humor is characteristic of the show, whose outrageous and uproari­ous content is certainly not for everyone. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
“Archer” is not your typical spy show. For one, it is animated. But it also features Sterling Archer, considered the world’s most dangerous secret, who is actually a completely inept loose cannon. He succeeds only through his dumb luck and only wants to be a spy so he can take advantage of the lifestyle of sex, alcohol and spy toys. It also helps that his mother is the head of the International Secret Intelligence Service (ISIS). The cast of charac­ters keeps this comedy fresh and quick. Mary Archer, Archer’s mother, frequently launches half-baked and disastrous plans through which she attempts to use ISIS resources for her own advantage. Lana Kane, Archer’s fellow agent and ex-girlfriend, has a love-hate relationship with Archer, encouraged by her sec­ond-tier place in ISIS due to nepotism. Creator Adam Reed’s plots and lines are original and catchy. The humor resembles another 

itous escape. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at  
modonne5@nd.edu  
By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL  
Scene Writer  
Have you ever watched or heard of CBS’s “The Mentalist?” Well, this is the show from which they stole their idea, except they could not copy the unique humor  By JORDAN GAMBLE Scene Editor  me of good serial television. It burns through more plot in a single episode than most dra­mas do in half a season. This breakneck pac­ 
and awesome chemistry of “Psych.” Shawn Spencer (James  The CW network has never been a ratings  ing is supported by fantastic characterization,  
Roday), fake psychic, works with his best friend from child- champ, but that’s okay:  the product of crisp writing performed by  
hood, Burton “Gus” Guster (Dulé Hill), to solve crimes for  It’s the poor, neglect- ridiculously talented and outrageously good- 
the Santa Barbara Police Department. Shawn’s methods  ed but stylish little  looking  ensemble  cast.  
are unconventional and frustrate SBPD Head Detective  sister to the “Big  Showrunners  Kevin  
Carlton Lassiter (Timothy Osmond) to no end, but he always  Four”  net- Williamson (previously of  
gets his bad guy. Hijinks, tomfoolery and shenanigans  works  of  “Dawson’s Creek,” no  
abound in this series as Shawn, a modern-day Peter Pan,  ABC, NBC, CBS  less)  and  Julie  Plec  
cracks jokes ranging from obscure 1980s movies to pineap­ and Fox.  aren’t afraid to shock  
ples to marriage rights in Massachusetts. He has success- Just like its net­ — they killed off half a  
fully impersonated an astronaut and a streetcar racer,  work,  “The  dozen significant char- 
Vampire Diaries”  acters in the first sea- 
has consistently  son  alone,  and  this  
been written off  season the Mystic Falls  
as  third-rate:  a  town  death  count  is  
junior  varsity  already to the double-digits.  
“True  Blood,”  The  truth?  “The  Vampire  
another useless  Diaries” is smarter than “True  
rider  on  the  Blood,” sexier than “Twilight”  
“Twilight” domination  and “Dawson’s Creek” really was- 
bandwagon or a vam­ n’t half bad, but “Diaries” breaks  
pire-infested “Dawson’s  the mold of the high-school-set drama.  
Creek.”  
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu  Simply put, “Vampire Diaries” is the epito- Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu  




LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, February 23, 2011 page 9 

Like any hot-blooded American college student, I have made my rounds of the concert scene. I was christened with the Spice Girls world tour, caught my first glimpse of alternative culture at a Flaming Lips con­cert at Red Rocks and moshed at the Chicago House of Blues when the Finnish symphonic-metal group Nightwish came to town. I’ve seen the Irish folk of Solas and the modern strings of the Kronos Quartet. I’ve seen Sting three times, once with Annie Lennox, once with The Police and once with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. (Hey, we all have That Guy, the musician we somewhat unwittingly inherited from our father and have a devotion to regardless of their modern-day cool factor. And Sting is cool.) I’m not a master concert go-er, but I have seen a few of my favorites in concert, and I know what to expect from an evening of music done live. 
So when one of my friends asked if I wanted to go to a Josh Ritter concert, I was a bit hesitant, because I’m not par­ticularly intimate with his music, and I don’t like to shell out cash for something I’m not sure I’ll love. Senior-year interest in creating a “shared Chicago experi­ence” prevailed, and at 5 p.m. last Thursday I found myself packed into a car on my way to Chicago. 

Josh Ritter. Have you heard of him? The only reason I have is because I have friends in Ireland, where he has made quite a splash after touring there once a year. He’s American -oh boy, is he American -but his appeal here (honed from developing his own major in American folk music while at college) is only beginning to catch up to his popu­larity in Wexford. But that didn’t stop the Vic Theater from being packed with fans from all manner of musical subcultures. 
The music of Ritter is what happens when someone finds an old miner’s love song, paints it red, white and blue, sprin­kles it with indie sparkles and pumps it through a Victrola hooked up to an amp with the volume turned up to 11. I stood in a crowd of tight-denimed hipsters and wine-sipping 30-somethings, marveling at the heterogeneity of Ritter’s appeal. I ran into the perennially-fashionable finance major from my dorm section, as well as two fellow film majors, and was in attendance with my motley crew of theology-heavy Folk Choir homies. 
At 7:20 p.m., on the dot, the opening act began with Scott Hutchison, the lead singer from Frightened Rabbit. (“OMG I didn’t know he was the opener! I love Frightened Rabbit!”) Hutchinson fulfilled all manner of expectations, coming on slightly drunk and playing whatever the crowd requested (“I don’t have a set list 
— just shoot ‘em out and we’ll see where this goes.”) His Scottish lilt added to the authenticity of his guitar slinging, because everyone knows, if you have an accent, you are automatically going to be great in concert. I was satisfied, until I saw what I had been missing. 

The second Hutchinson left, Ritter ran on, looking around with big eyes and grabbing his guitar as if the Devil himself were about to steal it. His band quickly joined, and we were off. Ritter stood in the middle of the stage, looking out into the crowd as if we were the greatest rev­elation of his life, singing to us as if our pleasure were his only desire. I’m not talking a Lady Gaga feed-my-addiction type desire, but something completely beyond what modern concert culture has taught me to expect. Josh Ritter was just happy. Pure, beaming joy radiated from his face as he commanded his guitar and cued his band. 
He began to jump up and down when he wasn’t singing, dancing around the stage and egging on his drummer or pianist. There was none of the “I’m so hip I’m going to have a rock moment for myself and you all get the pleasure of watching” business we’ve grown accus­tomed to in an indie age. 
Sometimes, just before Ritter came in, he would stand at the microphone and begin to mouth the next lyrics, so excited to sing them that he couldn’t contain himself. And he was smiling the whole time! Even during the slow, solo ballads, when he stood still at the microphone and crooned to us about a mummy falling in love with a museum curator, or two scientists carving their love into a warhead in a bomb shelter, he did it as if each lyric were a sweet privilege he was given the honor of transmitting to us. 
The crowd reacted in suit. People part­ed so other people could see. Everyone hushed those getting drinks in the back when the music got softer. As we neared the end, Ritter asked us if we would slow dance for him. “Just stick your arms out like Frankenstein and walk towards someone until they dance with you. Wouldn’t it be great if everyone sponta­neously started slow dancing?” He began one of his more well-known songs, “Kathleen,” and when the bridge came, the band slowed down and our evening’s leader looked at us expectantly. 
Half a measure later, a fly on the wall at the Vic Theater in Chicago had the priceless view of hundreds of couples from all manner of cultural allegiance doing the middle-school two-step. 
It was, hands down, the best concert I’ve ever attended. I knew two songs worth of lyrics. I recognized about six others. I listened to the words of songs I’d never heard and marveled at their beauty along with the poet who wrote them. I wasn’t shoved or pushed or made to feel inauthentic because of my lack of previous residence in the Ritterverse. 
I attribute this to the man himself, so brimming with joy and marvel at the audience that he could barely contain himself — and sometimes he didn’t. “I want to send you all flowers but I don’t have your addresses.” The tall, sandy-haired musician in a dress shirt and vest with roses woven up his microphone stand gave me the night of my life, not because he knew I wanted to be there, but because he himself wanted me there. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 23, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish ski teams finish season in Michigan 
Led by a second place fin­ish from the women’s snow­board team, the Irish wrapped up their season at the MCSA Regional Championships this weekend at Marquette Mountain in Marquette, Mich. 
Led by senior Erin McNeil, who placed second, the women ’s snowboard team finished second overall, while the men's squad placed 27th. 
The women's alpine team took seventh in Saturday's slalom, with senior Justine Murnane placing 10th. After the race, senior Claire Cotter she has a positive experience on the ski team. 
"Looking back to freshman year, it's such a blur,” she said. “I am happy to have been a part of this team, and I think we ended the season on a good note. It's like, all we do is win.” 
The men's alpine team also took seventh, with sopho ­more Thomas Knoedler plac­ing 17th. 
“After inspection, I noticed that we were competing against some pretty good teams from all over the Midwest, ” senior Patrick Lane said. “It was a chal ­lenge, but I would say we put up a good fight.” 
Women’s Rugby 
The Notre Dame Women’s Rugby Club traveled to Allendale, Mich. Saturday for their first friendly match of the season against Grand Valley State, a 30 -5 Irish loss. 
The Irish fielded 18 play­ers, six of whom had never before played in rugby game. They got off to a slow start, but quickly picked up the pace as the new players started to understand where they were supposed to be on the field. 
Though the Irish never dominated scrums, they held their own against a much bigger pack and had eight girls play new forward posi­tions throughout the game. The backs had similar posi­tion switches and were flexi­ble and adapted well to the changes. The Irish dominat­ed lineouts throughout the game, with sophomore back Ashley Okonta stealing many of the Lakers’ lineouts in her first game as Notre Dame’s sole jumper. 
The Lakers got on the board quickly after they passed the ball out wide to get around the Irish’s defen­sive line. Since the game was held inside with no goal ­posts, there were no conver­sion kicks, so each try count­ed for only five points. 
The Lakers dominated the scoreboard throughout the game, until the Irish got on the board after a try from senior captain Kayla Bishop late in the third quarter. 20­minute quarters were played instead of 40-minute halves in order to allow for more time to teach the new players 
on 
both sides about the game. However, the Irish continued to struggle with defensive alignment and 

offensive 
support for both passing and rucking through­out the game. 


The Irish will have a chance to improve in their next friendly match March 26 against Chicago at home. The Irish are now on the sec­ond leg of their journey to the National Tournament Round of 16 in San Diego, Calif. April 16-17. 
Bowling 
The Irish competed in the Backhaul Direct Hoosier Classic this past weekend. They were led by freshman Mike Murray, who averaged 179 over nine games. 
The Bowling Team will fin­ish its season this weekend by bowling in the American Heartland Conference Championship in Warren, Ohio. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 
A depleted Irish squad suf­fered two tough defeats at the hands of Ohio State over the weekend. 
In the first contest, the Buckeyes defeated the Irish 7-1. Notre Dame’s lone goal came from sophomore Mara Catlaw. Seniors Karen Riedl and Gina Storti each record­ed an assist on Catlaw’s goal. 
In the second game of the weekend, the Irish showed improvement, but still lost 5­0 to the Buckeyes. 
NBA 

Nuggets look to rebuild after major trade 
trade also sent Anthony Carter, Ty Lawson said he had mixed 
Associated Press 

Shelden Williams and Renaldo emotions about his new role as the DENVER — The mood was Balkman to New York for Wilson starting point guard because he Melo-choly at the Pepsi Center. Chandler, Raymond Felton, Danilo was losing his mentor who helped 
Only, the anguish Tuesday had Gallinari and Timofey Mozgov. The groom him for this moment. as much — if not more — to do Nuggets also got center Kosta “It was more than about basket-with Chauncey Billups’ departure Koufos from Minnesota. ball,” Lawson said. “We hung out. as it did Carmelo Anthony’s. The Nuggets could have lost So, I’m going to miss him.” 
Coach George Karl echoed a Anthony to free agency without The Nuggets aren’t rebuilding community’s sadness in seeing its any compensation after the season with this trade, but are rather hometown hero, who wanted to like the Cleveland Cavaliers did reinventing themselves, Karl said. stay put, leave for the Big Apple when LeBron James bolted for With the newcomers not expect-along with the superstar who Miami last summer. ed to take their physicals until wanted out. Anthony was one of So, that kind of haul led Karl to Wednesday, however, the Nuggets the best players in Denver Nuggets exclaim that the new front office had just nine players available for history, but Billups was possibly its team of Masai Ujiri and Josh their crucial game against most popular. Kroenke “hit a home run the first Memphis on Tuesday night, only 
In a three-team swap that was time up.” seven of whom participated in the finalized Tuesday, the Nuggets “I think they did a great job,” shootaround, with assistant coach-dealt their top two players along Karl said. “And the kitchen got hot. es chipping in to make it 5-on-5. with three backups to the New The kitchen got hot and they did a Although the trade leaves the York Knicks for a package of four great job of keeping their compo-Nuggets with a leadership void, young players, three draft picks sure and direction. I think they get Karl insisted Denver will make the and cash in a megadeal that philosophically what they want playoffs this season and predicted are still well within Denver’s grasp. title. reshapes both franchises. and we get philosophically what they might even do something they “Why not? Still got good guys “George was here this weekend 
Karl said he was relieved the we want as a coaching staff. So, it’s did just once in seven trips to the who can play basketball,” Martin and we talked about it,” North Anthony trade saga was finally a win-win. And I think it’s a win-playoffs with Anthony: advance out said. “Of course you’re losing two Carolina coach Roy Williams said. over but, like several of his players, win for the Knicks, too. So, I think of the first round. great players, but I think we’re in a “I do believe he can play both of he lamented the loss of Billups, Donnie Walsh and Mark “When we get the players here, good place now. ... We’ll be all those guys at the same time, hav­who led the Nuggets to the Warkentien in a strange way, we there’s going to be a refreshing right. It’s not like they shipped ing the ability to really push, hav-Western Conference finals two all I think worked the dynamics of attitude, a regrouping,” Karl said. everybody.” ing the ability to cover people. It’s years ago after he was acquired a very difficult situation into a win-“I might be crazy, but I think we With Billups gone, Lawson, a something I’m looking forward to. from the Detroit Pistons. win.” can make the playoffs and I also second-year speedster, and Felton, It makes me want to see Denver 
“I can’t deny that when the trade Except for losing Billups, that is. think we can be a threat to win in who was averaging 17.1 points play even more.” went down last night, I was kind of Billups is a former NBA finals the playoffs.” and nine assists in an All-Star wor-Lawson is moving up the ladder more sad than happy,” Karl said MVP and All-Star who remains The Nuggets are 32-25 and in thy season for New York, will split sooner than expected. after his team’s short-handed one of the league’s top point seventh place in the Western time at the point. “I think I’m ready,” he said. shootaround Tuesday. “I think guards at 34. He grew up in Conference and although they Like Karl, both Felton and “(Billups) did a good job, taught me most of that sadness was because Denver and attended the have a tough stretch of games Lawson went to North Carolina. things I need to know, situations of Chauncey — and A.C. a little bit, University of Colorado and had against Memphis, Boston, Portland Felton led the Tar Heels to the and just overall being a bigger too.” hoped to finish his career with the and Atlanta to close out the month, 2005 NCAA championship and brother to me on the basketball 
The blockbuster three-team Nuggets. Kenyon Martin said the playoffs Lawson guided them to the 2009 court, so I’m ready for it.” 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Stop Renting - Invest your money! 3 OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxu-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? George Costanza: 
bedrooms, 2 baths, all appliances, ry options at Dublin Village, Irish FOR SALE jillrobinson@century21abbey.com. FOR RENT Crossings, Oak Hill and North Don't go it alone. Kramer goes to a fantasy camp? 
574-250-9980 Shore Club. CES Property His whole life is a fantasy camp. HOUSE FOR SALE $380,000 3 GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT Management. Call 574-298-4206, Notre Dame has many resources in People should plunk down $2000 to bedroom/3.5 bath builders show-RENTAL: House for rent for gradua-www.cespm.info place to assist you. live like him for a week. Sleep, do case home is loaded with thou-WANTED tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. nothing, fall ass-backwards into sands in extras that you must see If you or someone you love needs money, mooch food off your neigh-to believe. Located just minutes ND/SMC couple in Dallas, Texas Perfect location-right next to the NOTICES confidential support or assistance, bors and have sex without dating... from Notre Dame in a villa style seeks full-time nanny for 15 months new Eddy Street Commons-walk to please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. THAT'S a fantasy camp. community this unbelievably beauti-beginning June 2011. everything-safe family oriented If you or someone you care about ——————————————— ful ranch is centrally located to din-street. has been sexually assaulted, we For more information, visit ND's Divorce is always hard. Especially ing and shopping. Call Ron at 574-If interested, please email can help. For more information, visit website at: on the kids. Of course I am the 261-0939 for more information and Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for Notre Dames website: result of my parents having stayed to schedule a showing. hdawson1@hotmail.com. additional info and photos http://csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu together so ya never know. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, February 23, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
Friars 
continued from page 16 
coach Mike Brey is still con­cerned by their progress, especially at home. 
“They scare the heck out of me,” he said. “The law of averages says [the Providence team that beat Villanova and Louisville] is what we get. But I don ’t want to overanalyze things with this group.” 
The player who troubles Brey the most is Providence forward Marshon Brooks, who is one of the Big East’s leading scorers at 24.4 points per game. On the team ’s current four-game losing streak the senior has averaged 30.8 points per game, highlighted by a 43­point performance in an 83­81 loss at Georgetown. 
“[I ’m] concerned, ” Brey said of the forward, who has only been held under 20 points once in Big East play this year. “The guy has go-off ability. It has certain­ly got to be a real team awareness to stop a guy like this. The ability to just get 25 to 30 points is scary.” 
Meanwhile, the No. 9 Irish (21-5, 10-4) have worries of their own, coming off of a torrid shooting day, con ­necting on only 35 percent from the field in their 72-58 loss to West Virginia. 
“Our concentration level wasn’t where it needed to be,” Brey said. “We missed some great looks, we were late to shooters and we did-n’t finish the defensive pos­session by rebounding. If we are not good in this area [Wednesday night] we will get beat there too.” 
But senior guard Ben Hansbrough has been a bright spot all season long. Over the last seven games, Hansbrough has averaged 
21.7 points per game with 
4.7 assists, while drawing 
r u t h l e s s  j e e r i n g  f r o m  
opposing crowds.  
“ I f  s o m e o n e  w e r e  t o  b e  

the lightning rod on this team other than me, it would be [Hansbrough], ” Brey said of his sharpshoot­er. “He is the leader. He’s surpassed where I thought he was going to be but he is where he thought he would be and that is what is important.” 
But Brey said concerns are arising for this veteran Irish group, as each senior starter logs over 30 minutes per game. 
“We ’ve had consistent success with this nucleus who knows who they are,” Brey said. “Depth is one of the most overrated things in college basketball. Familiarity breeds intelli ­gent play and your key guys have to be on the floor [in crunch time].” 
The Irish close out their road trip, hoping to avoid a losing streak, at the Dunkin Donuts Center at 7 p.m. tonight against a Providence team hoping to break a losing streak of their own. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agaste11@nd.edu 


McGraw 
continued from page 16 
tonight.” 

Despite contributing only five points, Notre Dame’s bench pro­vided relief in the form of fresh­man forward Natalie Achonwa and sophomore guard Kaila Turner. The pair logged a com­bined 39 minutes and chipped in six rebounds. 
“Our starters are really good,” McGraw said. “I think we need a little more production off the bench, but I thought we got a lot of minutes from them. Kaila Turner did a nice job handling the ball for us, and I think Natalie Achonwa is doing a good job for us. They didn’t score tonight, but I think they can, and I think Natalie in particular will score a lot more points for us the rest of the way.” 
Senior forward Devereaux Peters also had a big night, fin­ishing with 16 points and three blocks in just 22 minutes of action for No. 8 Notre Dame (23-5, 12-2 Big East). Peters scored six points during a 13-1 Irish run, as the Mountaineers (21-7, 7-7) went six minutes without scoring a field goal. 
“I thought [Peters] had some nice post moves tonight,” McGraw said. “She’s scoring a lot with people driving and find­ing her open, but tonight I thought she did a really good job of posting up some guards that were on her. She really did a good job of scoring in the paint.” 
Although Mountaineers guard Sarah Miles finished with 16 points on the evening, Notre Dame limited West Virginia’s leading scorer Liz Repella to just eight points and 3-for-15 shoot­ing from the field. McGraw credits her back court and soph­omore guard Skylar Diggins in particular for limiting the Mountaineers on the perimeter, as the team shot just 25 percent from beyond the arc. 
“We actually were keying on Liz Repella, and we did a great job on her,” McGraw said. “Miles scored a couple of bas­kets late — we were trying not to foul. Skylar did a pretty good job picking her up full court. I thought that was a big key to get on her early, and I think we did that in the first half.” 
The Irish wrap up the Big East slate with a home game against Cincinnati (8-18, 1-13) Saturday and a showdown at No. 7 DePaul (25-3, 12-1) next Monday. The Irish have clinched a bye to the quarterfinals of the Big East championships, and have a chance to move into sec­ond place with a victory over the Blue Demons. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 23, 2011 
Zhang 
continued from page 16 
top individual, finishing at three under par. 
By finishing 10th, the Irish were able to improve one place from where they stood after the first two rounds. They finished ahead of No. 13 Arkansas and No. 36 Minnesota, as well as unranked Indiana, Baylor and Missouri. Notre Dame shot +40 as a team, and scored 36 more than cham­pions Iowa State with a team total of 904. Senior captain Katie Conway said that the team was disap ­pointed, but not discour ­aged, with their perform ­ance. 
“Like every tournament, we had our sights set on a win, and based on the cur­rent rankings, we were defi­nitely one of the top con ­tenders going into the week,” Conway said. “While we fell short of this goal by quite a bit, I think we took a lot away from the event as a team and gained some momentum with a solid final round.” 
Conway shot 236 (+20) over three rounds. Senior teammate So -Hyun Park (228, +12) and junior team­mate Becca Huffer (229, +13) were top finishers for the Irish behind Zhang, end­ing three rounds tied for 41st and 45th, respectively. 
Conway knows what the Irish need to do in order to improve and achieve their season goals. 
“Although we were disap­pointed with our finish, we each know what we need to work on in our games indi­vidually to position our ­selves for a win [at our next tournament],” Conway said. “Our team has a lot of goals for the spring season. Ultimately, we want to win Big East and earn the pro­gram ’s first NCAA final ’s berth. We are also looking to finish with a team scoring average of under 300,which would also be a program first, and we are on pace to achieve this.” 
The Irish will try to rebound from their perform­ance when they play in the Dr. Donnis Thompson Invitational in Keneohe, Hawaii, on March 14. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
NFL 

Saints release tight end Jeremy Shockey 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — For flamboy­ant tight end Jeremy Shockey, the party is over — at least in New Orleans. 
Shockey was released Tuesday by the Saints, who appear ready to move on with promising sec-ond-year pro and 2010 third-round draft choice Jimmy Graham. 
Shockey was no stranger to the Big Easy social scene and also helped give the city a reason to celebrate like never before. He made a crucial touchdown catch in the fourth quarter of the Saints’ lone Super Bowl victory over Indianapolis in Miami just more than a year ago. 
But with one season and $4.2 million in base salary left on Shockey’s contract, the Saints decided the best way to pursue a second championship would be without the 30-year-old, nine-year veteran. 
“Jeremy played an important role in helping our team bring a Super Bowl championship to New Orleans,” coach Sean Payton said. “He contributed to the success of our offense, both as a pass-catch­er and run blocker, and we’re appreciative of his efforts.” 
Acquired from the New York Giants in a trade at the onset of 2008 training camp, Shockey spent three up-and-down seasons in New Orleans and labored through injuries in all of them. 
Last season, Shockey made 41 catches for 408 yards and three touchdowns in 13 games. 
Shockey’s agent, Drew Rosenhaus, did not answer his phone, but Shockey posted a note on his Twitter page: “Always will remember my time in New Orleans. What a city, you all wel­comed me like one of your own, and we had a great run. Onto the next chapter, the Deep Unknown.” 
Shockey, a former Miami Hurricanes star who makes his offseason home in Miami’s South Beach, is an adventure traveler and avid free diver. While he played for the Giants, who made him a first-round draft pick in 2002, he was popular and produc­tive, but also seen as a malcontent and a distraction by the time his stay in New York had ended. 
In New Orleans, he rejoined Payton, who had been his offen­sive coordinator in New York dur­ing his rookie season, which remains one of his best seasons statistically, with 74 catches for 894 yards and two TDs. 
After Shockey arrived in New Orleans, he often sidestepped reporters and for the most part avoided generating negative head­lines. 
Trine 
continued from page 16 

A 3-pointer by Trine senior guard Liz Gehrig put the Thunder ahead by four, and put the Belles out of the game. 
The Thunder reached the bonus with more than six min­utes left in the contest, and solid free throw shooting sealed their victory down the stretch. 
“I think our team was pre­pared,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “I think defensively we didn’t execute like we need­ed to do. I don’t think we had very good shot selection throughout the game, and some key shots that we normally make weren’t falling for us. That kind of set the tone.” 
Saint Mary’s saw significant contributions throughout the game from a pair of freshman. Guard Shanlynn Bias and for­ward Domini Paradiso logged 20 and 15 minutes for the game, respectively. Paradiso stepped in during the first half when Murphy was in foul trou­ble and chipped in two points and five rebounds. Bias finished with six points for the game. 
“Those are two good kids who have shown a lot of growth this season,” Henley said. “I think Domini [Paradiso] is getting stronger every chance she gets out there, and [Bias] is doing a lot of good things for us defen­sively and learning our system.” 
Murphy finished as the game’s leading scorer with 22 points and also added nine rebounds. With three seasons of her career complete, Murphy has a total of 1024 career points. She is the ninth player in the history of the College to reach the thou­sand-point plateau, and led Saint Mary’s to a team record 18 wins this season. 
“When we have a chance to sit back and let this sink in, those are definitely some bright spots of the season,” Henley said. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 



Wednesday, February 23, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
position after the break. White ” Magill def. Nick Hayes’ strength. Hayes, the assert control in pushing his Oloriz threw a powerful hook “The Renegade” Raic off-campus senior defeated senior opponent into the 
Bouts 

to Cunningham’s head in the Magill ’s unique fighting Leicht in a highly contested ropes and landing multiple second round, and style quickly became appar-bout by a split decision. face and body punches. In 
continued from page 14 

Cunningham struggled to cre-ent in the first round as he the decisive final round, From the first point of con-ate any response for the sought to limit his opponent’s Colin “The Lion” King def. Ulrich, a sophomore, con ­tact Choe made with Voutsos, sophomore. Oloriz did not punches with his footwork Ryan Carey stantly swung at his oppo­it was evident that Choe give in to Cunningham’s jabs while waiting for key oppor-King, a sophomore, worked nent, landing Koepsel against came to fight and steal the in the third round, as the tunities to deliver quick jabs. senior Carey around the ring the ropes twice. Ulrich began victory in this bout. Choe California native, Oloriz, took Even when Raic cornered the in the first round, jabbing to dominate the fight in the wore a look of determination complete control by the end junior at the end of the round him in the head and tying third round, but both fighters and confidence that no one of the round. It originally and delivered a couple jabs him up in the middle of the were clearly exhausted by was going to stop him, as he looked as if Cunningham had to the face, Magill escaped ring. King showed great poise the end from their aggressive would often smile and wave the edge, but Oloriz, a resi-with short, combination and confidence as he led fighting styles. Ulrich proved his arms in front of Voutsos. dent of Morrissey, defeated punches. The fight continued Carey around the ring and victorious in a unanimous Choe opened the first round Cunningham by a split deci-without many punches in the took advantage of the space decision. with energy, throwing power-sion. second round as Magill he had. In the second round, ful punches to Voutsos’ head. maneuvered about the sides Carey began by throwing sev-Nicholas “El Toro” Yulan Voutsos had no response for Thomas “The Mean Justifies of the ring, but he managed eral combination punches to def. William “The Choe, as he held his fists up the ” Enzweiler def. Sean to connect on a few jabs. He King’s lower body, and King Haymaker” Hayma
n in defense, attempting to Mullen executed this style success-responded with powerful Yulan quickly took control throw a few punches to Both fighters started the fully again in the third round, punches that deflated Carey’s of the fight with powerful Choe’s head. Choe, a Hawaii fight aggressively, but limiting Raic’s opportunities energy. King chased Carey left-right combinations that native, quickly knocked Enzweiler showcased his ath-to deliver any counter-shots. down in the final round, by damaged Hayman and left Voutsos to the ground in the letic footwork early when he Magill emerged victorious in sprinting across the ring and spectators wincing in awe. second round, and continued was cornered by Mullen on a unanimous decision. fiercely pinning Carey While the senior Hayman fighting Voutsos at full the ropes and turned the against the ropes. Carey fell managed to land a few blows strength. Not letting down at tables to land two combina-157 lb. Weight Division through the ropes to the floor at the end of the first round, all, Choe walked Voutsos tion jabs. Enzweiler contin-of the ring, almost falling his freshman opponent deliv­around the ring, jabbing ued to cause his junior oppo-Paul “Hawaii K.O.” Hayes down to the ground. King, the ered the vast majority of suc-Voutsos relentlessly in the nent to misfire on punches in def. Daniel Leicht sophomore from Sorin, cessful punches in the bout. chest as the third round the second round. Also, the This matchup was by no brought more strength with The second round showcased ended. Encouraged by his fan senior connected on as many means decided until the end each round, and defeated Yulan’s dominance when he support, Choe, from St. as six punches in a row to of the third round. In the first Carey with confidence by a knocked Hayman to the Edward’s Hall, defeated the Mullen’s face in the second round, powerful hooks from unanimous decision. ground after pinning him freshman Voutsos by a unani-round. Mullen, desperately sophomore Leicht quickly against the ropes and deliv­mous decision. needing a strong final round, dropped Hayes down on his Jeff “Lil Bear” Ulrich def. ering at least 12 consecutive 

tried to accelerate the pace knees, and Hayes showed Jamie “Sweet Rays of punches to Yulan’s face and Alex “Gatito Loco” Oloriz of the fight in the final frame. frustration and a lack of con-Sunshine” Koepsel body. The referee stopped the def. Gregory “Come On Big However, Enzweiler contin-fidence as he fell to the Both fighters aimed to fight fight twice in this round to Orca!” Cunningham ued to deliver the majority of ground. Hayes fought back an aggressive bout, deliver-allow Hayman to recover, but 
Cunningham, a junior from successful punches including with numerous combination ing as many punches as pos-a stunning right hook by New York, threw combination a powerful combination of punches in the second round, sible and making it one of the Yulan sent him to the ground punches at Oloriz right at the left-right hooks to his oppo-however, and Leicht’s only more competitive matches of one final time. Yulan won the bell, and Oloriz was not quick nent’s face. For Enzweiler, response was a few jabs to the day. Koepsel gained an contest after the referee enough to fight back. his quick jabs unquestionably Hayes’ head, which did not edge at the end of the first ended it in the second round. Cunningham threw numerous justified the end result of the affect Hayes’ performance at round with four jabs to punches to Oloriz’s face, tak-fight in his favor by a unani-all. Hayes then opened the Ulrich’s face. The second Contact Matt Unger at ing the advantage in the first mous decision. next round with powerful round went back and forth as munger3@nd.edu and Megan round. Oloriz did not give in, punches, and Leicht’s effort each fighter cornered the Golden at though, and he regained his Michael “Blinded by the was not enough to contain other, but Ulrich managed to mgolde01@saintmarys,.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 23, 2011 

fists in front of his face in and the second stoppage per-defense, as Allare threw com-manently ended the fight. bination punches to Slaney’s Ortenzio won the fight by the head in attempt to fight back. referee stopping the contest. Both Slaney and Allare fought in the center of the ring in Benjamin “The Crush from the second round, feigning Russia ” Eichler def. punches and refraining from Sebastian “The Hispanic throwing many powerful Causing Panic ” De Las punches. In the third round, Casas Slaney threw a few hooks at Following a slow start to the Allare’s chest, and Allare was fight in which the freshmen unable to hide his pain. traded positions in the center Slaney finished strong by pin-of the ring, De Las Casas ning Allare up against the looked to break through by ropes to end the round. A landing jabs on Eichler, caus­senior from Carroll Hall, ing him to retreat in defense. Slaney was very active in the But Eichler quickly shifted ring, moving Allare to all cor-the fight in his favor by the ners and defeating the sopho-end of the first round, landing more by a unanimous deci-four consecutive left-handed sion. punches to his opponent’s 
face. Eichler carried his dom-Kevin Ortenzio def. James inance into the second round “Mankind” Walsh as he delivered multiple 
The fight commenced with hooks and jab moves. In the Ortenzio landing multiple jabs final round, De Las Casas on Walsh, connecting on his took a few shots on Eichler’s face with as many as eight face, causing his nose to consecutive punches at a bleed and the fight to be time. The referee stopped the delayed. Despite suffering fight early for Walsh to recov-more damage than his oppo­er, but Ortenzio, a junior, nent, Eichler continued to never let up his aggression on successfully land more his sophomore opponent. The punches and was victorious in second round featured more a unanimous decision. of the same with Ortenzio 

around the ring in the third Dunne’s domination of the causing his sophomore oppo-154 lb. Weight Division round, Shane throwing pow-fight began in the first round, nent to dance around the ring 
erful punches to Sassetti’s when he was able to land his to avoid his quick jabs. The Inoh Choe def. Thomas face early in the round. combination move numerous referee delayed the fight “Stos” Voutsos continued from page 16 Sassetti threw a hook to times, featuring short quick twice in the second round due 
Shane’s right side, knocking jabs to Kissling’s face and to damage to Walsh’s nose, see BOUTS/page 13 fight in his favor towards the him down near the ropes for body. Dunne also cornered his end of the round with a few the victory by unanimous junior opponent in the ring, jabs to Rowek. In the final decision. delivering up to ten straight round, Rowek successfully punches before the referee landed punches, but Seim Will “The Thrill” Peterson separated the two. In the sec-regained his composure and def. Samuel “Can I Getta” ond round, the sophomore delivered a strong right hook Kaulbach continued his success with his to Rowek’s face, which result-Peterson opened the bout jabs combo. Dunne later used ed in the referee giving with a defensive maneuver, as his agile footwork to quell a Rowek eight seconds to he fought off a few punches comeback attempt by recover. With some blows to from senior Kaulbach by Kissling, who landed a few Rowek’s face and body at the wrapping his arms around successful punches at the end end of the round, Seim solidi-Kaulbach’s head and tying of the second and start of fied his victory in a split deci-him up in the first round. third rounds. He solidified his sion. Peterson had no trouble pin-victory in the third round in 
ning Kaulbach against the delivering a strong right hand Daniel Rodriguez def. ropes and throwing powerful blow to Kissling’s face. Dunne Patrick Todd punches to his head. won the fight in unanimous 
Rodriguez started the fight Kaulbach had little energy to decision. in a dominating fashion, land-fight back, taking much time ing multiple blows to Todd’s to gather his footing. After a 148 lb. Weight Division face. Todd finished the first 45-second break, Kaulbach round with some success in could not respond in the sec-Brian “The BK Special ” delivering a few quick jabs to ond round as Peterson contin-Koepsel def. Michael “No the freshman’s head. This ued throwing powerful Retreat” McCormick momentum carried into the punches to Kaulbach’s chest, At the referee’s signal, both second round for the grad causing the referee to end the senior Koepsel and sopho ­student as he cornered contest. Peterson, a fresh-more McCormick opened the Rodriguez into the corner of man, defeated Kaulbach bout in the first round with the ring and connected on a when the referee stopped the powerful punches to one successful combination of contest in the second round. another’s heads. The first jabs. Todd also managed to round was evenly matched as land a punch to his oppo -Christopher “Sparta Hands” neither Koepsel or nent’s face at the start of the Torres def. Nicholas Bock McCormick had noticeably third round before Rodriguez Torres and Bock started the weakened. Koepsel, the took over. The freshman exe-bout exchanging an equal Sarasota native, stepped up cuted multiple successful number of punches and in the duel and jabbed combination moves, in which remained in stances low to McCormick in the chest he delivered four jabs and the ground to guard against numerous times. McCormick quickly darted out of the way body punches. Bock tried to was unable to fight off the to avoid any counter blows. assert control of the fight at punches, and Koepsel fought Rodriguez controlled the pace the start of the second round relentlessly at the end of the of the fight in the third round. when he pushed his freshman second round. McCormick This effort managed to earn opponent into the ropes. returned several punches to Rodriguez victory in a unani-However, Torres gained con-Koepsel’s head in the final mous decision. trol of the fight for good when round, but it was not enough 
he worked his way out of the to overcome Koepsel’s 143 lb. Weight Division corner by delivering success-strength, as he was unaffect­
ful counter blows to the ed by McCormick’s jabs. In a Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti senior’s face. He followed this bout that began pretty bal­def. Cameron Shane escape with a strong right anced, the off-campus resi-
Sassetti came out in the hook to Bock’s face causing dent Koepsel defeated first round with combination his nose to bleed and led to McCormick by a unanimous punches to Shane’s chest, but the referee to temporarily decision. Shane, a senior, responded stopping the fight. When the well with consecutive left fight resumed in the third Ryan “Welcome to the hook shots at Sassetti’s neck. round, Torres continued to Jungle” Slaney def. Michael Sassetti appeared to lose have success with his three-“The Mad Man” Allare strength after being punched punch combination move and In the first round, Slaney in the head numerous times, easily deflected Bock’s count-took Allare in circles around but he was not finished fight-er-punches. Torres proved the ring with powerful punch­ing. In the second round, victorious in a unanimous es to Allare’s head. Slaney Sassetti had the advantage, decision. used the space on the ring to tying Shane up and folding his advantage, forcing Allare his body up several times Kevin “Get ‘Er” Dunne def. to move in whichever direc­within the round. Sassetti fol-Timothy “Timbo Slice ” tion he desired. With a large lowed Shane frantically Kissling advantage, Slaney held his 
Bengal 



Wednesday, February 23, 2011 The Observer u TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

LAURA McGINN 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, February 23, 2011 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Win in West Virginia 
Notre Dame avoids back-to-back losses 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Seeking to avoid back-to-back losses on the road, Notre Dame cruised past West Virginia Tuesday night in a 72-60 victory to close out its two-game road trip. 
The Irish fell to Connecticut on Saturday, but have not lost con­secutive games since dropping a pair to UCLA and Kentucky in late November. 
Junior guard Natalie Novosel led all scorers with 22 points, as the Irish shot 58 percent from the floor. 
“[The win] was really impor­tant for a lot of reasons,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “That was a great offensive game for us. [West Virginia is] a really good defensive team, so I’m really pleased with the shoot­ing percentage that we had 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Junior guard Natalie Novosel goes up for a layup in Notre Dame’s Feb. 8 win over see McGRAW/page 11 Seton Hall. Novosel led the Irish with 22 points against West Virginia Tuesday. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Zhang lone bright spot for squad 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Freshman standout Nicole Zhang had an impressive showing for Notre Dame at the Central District Invitational at the River Wilderness Course in Parrish, Fla., while the No. 15 Irish took 11th place as a team, in a field of 15. 
Zhang, the No. 1 freshman in the country, completed the tournament tied for tenth in the field of 75 indi­viduals. Zhang finished with a score of 219 (+3) over three rounds, and was able to close out the tournament with a strong final round, shooting three under par. She finished just six strokes 
over LSU ’s Austin Ernst, who was the tournament’s 
see ZHANG/page 12 


BENGAL BOUTS 

Fights heat up as competitors move into quarterfinals 
By MATT UNGER and 
MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writers 
134 lb. Weight Division 
Joe “Sweet Cheeks” Decker def. Gregory “John C.” Reilly 
It did not take long for the O’Neill resident Decker to throw several powerful punch­es to Reilly’s head, and Reilly did not have much of a response other than to hold back in defense. Decker had the sophomore Reilly cornered with no option but to throw several ineffectual jabs to Decker’s stomach. Decker’s response included a combina­tion of punches to Reilly’s head. Reilly reached the point when he was struggling to con­tinue, causing the referee to stop the contest midway through the second round, and Decker claimed an easy victory. 
Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. 
Anthony “Lucky” Lucisano 
At the sound of the bell, Lally threw combination punches to Lucisano’s head, forcing Lucisano to back away from him. Lucisano had no response, and he feigned punches to Lally’s head in defense. In the second round, Lucisano, a sophomore, came back and took control by knocking Lally to the ground almost immediately. Lally got back on his feet and responded by throwing several powerful 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish prepare for Providence 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
An end-of-season trip to Providence could have been divined as an easy win to finish an 11-day road trip. Think again — after all, this is the Big East. 
Although the Friars (14­13, 3-11) dwell in the cel­lars of one of America ’s premier basketball confer­ences, they logged back-to­back wins against No. 15 Villanova and No. 16 Louisville in January while barely losing to No. 6 Pittsburgh. Even though the Friars are currently labor­ing through a rough four-game losing streak, Irish 
see FRIARS/page 11 

punches tying Lucisano up. In a well-contested third round, both Lally and Lucisano exchanged combination punch­es for much of the round. Near the end of the third round, Lally cornered Lucisano and twisted him up, leaving him with nowhere to go just before the end of the bout. The sopho­more Lally defeated Lucisano in an intense matchup by a unanimous decision. 
Niels Seim def. Nicholas “N” Rowek 
In the first round, Seim and Rowek, both sophomores, attempted to discern each other’s fighting style by danc­ing around the middle of the ring and exchanging jabs to the head. However, the fighting opened up in the second round, when Rowek came out aggres­sively seeking to land blows to Seim’s head. Seim managed to dodge the blows and turn the 
see BENGAL/page 14 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Thunder finish like lightning at MIAAs 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Basketball is often a game of runs. Unfortunately for Saint Mary’s, Trine College’s final run came late in the game on Tuesday night. The No. 3 Belles (18-8, 11-5 MIAA) did not have time to answer and were upset by the No. 6 Thunder (8-17, 4­11 MIAA) 68-58 in the opening round of the MIAA tournament. 
The Belles led 29-25, after the first period, though both teams had similar statistical halves. Each shot 40 percent from the field, and each only missed one free throw. 
Despite spending time on the bench in the middle of the peri­od because of early foul trouble, junior forward Kelley Murphy carried the team offensively during the first half, posting 11 points. Junior forward Jessica Centa added nine in the period. 
The Thunder came out firing on all cylinders in the second half and had the game knotted at 29 within the first minute and a half. The two teams exchanged leads up until the 
14:13 mark, when Trine sopho­more forward Haley Killingbeck nailed a 3-pointer to put the Thunder up 35-33. 
Trine maintained the lead, at times as large as five, until 5:16 when a Murphy layup put the Belles back in front. 
see TRINE/page 12 





