
COMMENTARY 

Slow down: It’s not time to drink the kool-aid 
It is early September in South Bend, which can mean only one thing — the kool-aid is awfully strong. 
Notre Dame sits in the top 20 in both of the major polls. Some experts have the Irish as high as the top 10. Sports Illustrated is so bold as to predict Brian Kelly and company will spend January in a BCS bowl game. 
The kool-aid has gotten very strong. 
9-3 or 10-2 re­cords seem exceedingly plausible. 11-1 isn’t all that much of a reach. And 12-0? Well, it feels closer than it has since the 2006 preseason hype. 
Remember as a kid, com­ing in from playing football in the backyard, all you wanted was the sugar high from the kool-aid? Just have some of this stuff. It’s potent. 
Looking at this schedule, ev­ery game feels winnable. After all, Las Vegas favored Notre Dame in all but one game when the season’s lines opened, with the exception being the season-closing trip to face Stanford and senior quarterback Andrew Luck. Then again, no game against Michigan, Michigan State or USC is ever a guaran­tee. Most Irish fans figure any losses this year will come from some combination of those four games, and Notre Dame cer­tainly won’t lose all four. 
That kool-aid may be the only drink in town. 
That must be why I am ex­tremely thirsty — because I’m not drinking it. 
Typically, age brings cyni­cism. With each decade comes a new handful of memories of dreams dashed, plans gone awry and painful disappoint­ments. Obviously, in my two decades, I haven’t seen much of that. 
But it is all I have seen when it comes to Notre Dame football. 
A small sample size usually leaves room for hope, but my small sample size only includes dreams dashed, wasted talents and the Bush Push. 
I began measuring my breaths by Allen Rossum kick, punt and interception returns and I measured my joys by Joey Goodspeed touchdowns in 1996. 
My first bitter tears followed a Ron Powlus fumble in over-time against Air Force that year — just minutes after NBC announcer Tom Hammond warned the one thing you don’t want to do in overtime is turn over the ball. 

That is the Notre Dame football I know, my classmates know and my generation knows. Not a year since has gone by the Irish haven’t lost a game they should have won – Air Force in overtime in 1996, a 23-7 shel­lacking at the hands of Michi­gan State the following year, never mind the fact that it was a home game. And don’t even get me started on the 14-7 loss to Boston College the week after my birthday in 2002. I was at that one, and still try to rub my eyes to get the visions of green jerseys out of them. 
Last year it was Navy and Tulsa, Navy and Tulsa, and, for good measure, Navy and Tulsa. 
This is the Notre Dame I know and love. This is the Notre Dame I will expect to see until proven otherwise. This is the Notre Dame I keep coming back to for more. 
Albert Einstein once said the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again while expecting different results. 
For the better part of 15 years, I have drunk the kool-aid annually. For the better part of 15 years, Notre Dame has made me regret the grape aftertaste. It is time to stop doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. No more kool-aid for me. 
Oh no, Mr. Kool-Aid Man. Oh no. 
Yes, this is touted as the deepest defensive front Notre Dame has trotted out in years. Yes, senior quarterback Dayne Crist is supposedly a more vocal leader these days. Yes, senior receiver Michael Floyd is on a mission to be the best in country. 
But these are annual occur­rences, if the names are simply changed around a bit. 
At some point I may drink the kool-aid again. I may even this year, once the Irish survive a near-disaster against Purdue or Pittsburgh. 
I’m just hoping it is fruit punch-flavored, or Orange will do. Perhaps the type they serve at Fiestas, or the type with lots of Sugar in it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL RECRUITING 


OL Goodman visits campus 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 

Notre Dame’s 2011 season may begin Saturday, but the recruiting season began long ago. Because of that, only one recruit is officially coming to campus this weekend, as of Wednesday night. 
Florida offensive lineman Evan Goodman will watch the Irish take on South Florida, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
“He is a big-time player, a guy who is real high on their list,” said Frank, who heads the on-line ESPN-affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “He is currently commit­ted to Arizona State, where he has an older brother playing, but he wants to check out his other options.” 
A slow opening weekend is not unusual, as high school students are just as busy at the beginning of the year as college students. 
“The first weekend there just isn’t a whole lot of guys com­ing in,” Frank said. “It is [the recruits’] first or second games as well. 
“You’ll start to see it for Michigan State or Air Force. USC will be the real big game, with at least 20 recruits com­ing in.” 
Even once recruits start pouring in, Goodman will still be unique in many respects. Most of the visitors will be a bit smaller than the 6-foot-4 inch, 285 pound Goodman. 
“Notre Dame is on a mis­sion to find a lot of skill play­ers,” Frank said. “When they mention skill, they are talking about running backs, defen­sive backs and wide receivers … You are looking for a lot of guys who could play a lot of po­sitions.” 
At this point, “a lot” does not rise above single digits. Frank calculates Irish coach Brian Kelly has seven scholarships left to fill in the class of 2012. If an injury were to arise, a player transferred, or if Kelly opted not to invite back cer­tain potential fifth-year play­ers, that number could rise. But, for now, seven recruits will likely join the 14 commits Kelly has already landed. Of those 14 commits, seven fall into the skill player category – two re­ceivers and five defensive backs 
– as well as three offensive line­men, two defensive ends and two linebackers. 
“Right now, I think the plan is to take one offensive line­man and then a bunch of skill guys,” Frank said. “It’s just pri­ority versus who is available … If a big-time offensive line­man wants to commit [such as Goodman], they’ll take him. They aren’t going to hold out for a skill guy if they know they can get an elite offensive lineman.” 
No matter what situations de­velop among linemen and skill players, one position remains satisfied, Frank said. 
“I think they are sold on the quarterbacks they have on campus right now,” he said. “They have a lot of faith in [freshman] Everett Golson and [sophomore] Andrew Hendrix, and I think that says a lot that they aren’t taking another quarterback.” 
That being said, a prized quarterback will certainly be a piece of next year’s recruiting class. 
“It also gives them time to re­ally find the right kind of guy in the 2013 class.” 

Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 






‘A more resilient man’ 
Crist battles through season-ending injuries and offseason competition to earn the top depth chart spot 
By ANDREW OWENS win.” great escapability. After two Associate Sports Editor The coaching staff has raved knee surgeries, he moved well, about Crist’s performance in fall he was able to extend plays. We 
When Dayne Crist snaps on his practice, both with his attitude couldn’t have somebody that helmet and runs out of the tun-and on-field performance. The couldn’t extend plays in our of­nel for Saturday’s season open-experience has affected him in fensive system, and he was able er, it will not be the first time ways that a healthy 2010 could to do that.” he has participated in the Irish not have, offensive coordinator Crist said it is not in his nature pregame ritual. But the senior Charley Molnar said. to hold back on the field because quarterback will have a differ-“Here’s what the injuries I of the past injuries. ent feeling now, having battled think did for Dayne — they made “I’m going to play with the back from a season-ending knee him a more resilient man,” Mol-same intensity I’ve always injury for the nar said. “In played with and that’s the only second con-other words, way I know how to play is with secutive year he’s really full speed,” he said. “I’m going to to reclaim the been able to do everything I can.” role of starting bounce. It’s While Kelly has mentioned 
“I just hope [Notre Dame 

quarterback. taught him “championship” when talking 
fans] know how much I 

“More than to get off the about his quarterback, Crist is anythi ng, care and how hard I work floor when focused on the short term and [running out to help this team win.” he’s knocked looks at each day as an opportu­of the tun-down maybe nity to grow in year two under nel] will have Dayne Crist in a way that the new system. a very gra-he wouldn’t “This year it’s about playing 
senior quarterback 

cious feel to have if he with more maturity and hav­it,” Crist said. had remained ing a greater knowledge base of “I’ll be incred-healthy. It the offense this year,” he said. “I ibly thankful made him ap-think it’s going to help my game for the oppor-preciate the grow, so it’s going to help the of­tunity to go out there and play opportunity he got.” fense grow. Understanding the again and do everything and do Irish coach Brian Kelly agreed hard work and preparation I the things I love. After that it’s that Crist has the ideal mindset do to help my game is going to time to get to work and focus on heading into 2011. help our team get better so we’re South Florida.” “I would say quite frankly and making sure we’re continuing to 
The signal-caller began the quite honestly, [Crist] is the kind do that at all times.” 2010 season as the starter be-of guy I want to coach,” Kelly When the Irish headed into fall fore sustaining a ruptured patel-said. “He’s tougher mentally. He camp in Kelly’s inaugural sea-la tendon in the loss to Tulsa on handles himself in that leader-son, anyone and everyone knew Oct. 30. The team went 4-5 with ship position in the way I want the starting quarterback job was Crist under center before sopho-our quarterbacks to handle it. Crist’s. This year, he had to beat more quarterback Tommy Rees We have great confidence in his out freshman Everett Golson and took over the reins and guided ability to lead sophomores the Irish to a 4-0 finish, at which our football A n d r e w point many fans were ready to team to a cham-Hendrix and forget about the senior leader. pionship.” Tommy Rees, 
“It was tough — you couldn’t Neither Kelly who had a
“We have great confidence 

really worry about those kinds nor Crist envi-4-0 record on 
in his ability to lead 

of things,” Crist said. “More than sion a less mo-his side. 
our football team to 

anything it was about getting bile version of The battle him with everything I could help Michael Floyd and junior tight 
a championship.” 

my body back and just remain-the senior quar-was atypi-him with and making sure he end Tyler Eifert. ing confident in my abilities be-terback in 2011, cal because was comfortable here and now “Having the guys we have on cause I’ve always had a great despite the risk Brian Kelly of the close it’s gotten to the point where he offense makes the quarterback’s deal of confidence in what I can of another in-Irish coach bond the came in and played very well job a lot easier, so obviously I do. Really I just try to focus more jury. senior and and gained some great experi-need to help those guys because on what I can do, how I can help “He has to Rees share, ence in the games he played in.” those guys have incredible play-this team as opposed to worry-play the game Crist said. The relationship has evolved making ability,” Crist said. “I ing about all the stuff I couldn’t the way it comes “I’ve said from Crist teaching Rees to the think everybody on this offense control. to him,” Kelly this before, two instructing has a very 
“I just hope [Notre Dame fans] said when announcing Crist as but we have a brotherly rela-each other. aggressive know how much I care and how the starter Aug. 23. “One of the tionship really,” he said. “When “It’s great mindset and hard I work to help this team things he did in camp was show he first got here I tried to help having a guy out wants to go there you can “There’s nothing more out and score really bounce that I want to do other a lot of points things off,” Crist than play with the rest of and that’s the said. “He sees the guys on this team and goal of the of-
some things win for this University.” fense. We’re out there I may real excited not have seen those guys 
Dayne Crist 
and vice versa. are back.” 
senior quarterback 
We’re trying to Crist’s ef­help each other fect on the get better be-team has im­cause we’re proved with both team guys an increased and understand in helping each vocal leadership and confidence, other get better we’re helping Molnar said. the team get better.” “I think he is the same guy,” he 
Crist said he hopes his return said. “He is probably more confi­from the injuries parallels those dent than he has been just know-of Jason White and Sam Brad-ing that he’s the starter and get-ford, two Oklahoma quarter-ting virtually all of his reps right backs who suffered knee injuries now with the first unit. He’s been and came back to win the Heis-even sharper than he was lead-man Trophy and, more impor-ing into him being announced as tantly to Crist, earn berths in the the starter.” national championship game. For Crist, the motivation has 
“I think it’s a positive thing always been the same since he and something to aim for and signed with Notre Dame as a more than anything it instills five-star quarterback in 2008 some confidence that it can be and battled through two injuries done and has been done be-to reach the point he is at today. fore,” he said. “Having that evi-“More than anything, my love dence wasn’t the sole thing that for the game, a love of this Uni-was driving me through rehab versity and a love for my team-and things like that but it’s nice mates [motivates me],” he said. seeing those things and having “There’s nothing more that I something to shoot for.” want to do other than play with 
Crist benefits from leading the rest of the guys on this team an offense with several offen-and win for this University.” sive weapons that are big-play 

Senior quarterback Dayne Crist looks on during Notre Dame’s 28-27 loss to Tulsa in 2010. Crist threats every time they touch the Contact Andrew Owens at suffered a season-ending knee injury during that loss. football, such as senior receiver aowens2@nd.edu 



IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 

While essentially all of the off-Given the throw-first men-COACHING season talk around the Irish of-tality of the Brian Kelly spread At this time a year ago, the fense revolved around the quar-system, the ground game will Irish barely had the building terback position, the receiving not be the focus of the offense blocks of a brand-new system. corps improved dramatically — but that doesn’t mean it won’t Now, they have all of the play-
Head-to and did so largely away from be effective. Junior running book down (except for parts that the headlines (save for perenni-back Cierre Wood’s efficacy as apply to roster-specific situa­al media target senior Michael a playmaker out of the backfield tions) and have finally flushed Floyd). Junior Theo Riddick will might be the key to a success-out any traces of the Charlie provide a truly explosive second ful season. If he can run the ball Weis pro-style offense that option across from Floyd, who effectively and explosively, he may have been remaining. This will always draw double cover-will give defensive coordinators gives Kelly much more latitude age. nightmares. in his play calling and much of 
Even better for Notre Dame, Senior running back Jonas what the Irish do will not be Notre Dame Offense the playmaking capability of Gray has taken the words of for-on their 2010 game tape. With the passing game doesn’t stop mer Notre Dame and Pittsburgh fewer mental mistakes and an there. Sophomore receiver TJ Steelers running back Jerome expanded arsenal, Notre Dame 
7 TJ Jones So. 

Jones has developed greatly Bettis to heart and has devel-will have a significant tactical WR 
16 DaVaris Daniels Fr. 
from his promising freshman oped a power-rushing game advantage. 
6 Theo Riddick Jr. 
year campaign and seniors reminiscent of The Bus himself. 
WR 9 Robby Tomaa Jr. 
Robby Toma and John Goodman He will provide a change of pace EDGE: NOTRE DAME have grown into leaders. Fresh-much like Robert Hughes did to man DaVaris Daniels has mus-great effect at the end of 2010. cled his way into the rotation on In addition, don’t be surprised 
70 Zack Martin Jr. 

the strength of an explosive fall to see versatile freshman Ev-LT
20 Cierre Wood Jr. 72 Nick Martin Fr. 
camp and junior tight end Tyler erett Golson and sophomore 

RB 25 Jonas Gray Sr. 
Eifert will be one of Crist’s big-Andrew Hendrix see some field 66 Chris Watt Jr. gest third-down targets. time in specialized packages LG 76 Andrew Nuss Sr. 
The Bulls will not be easy to designed to get them into open 

10 Dayne Crist Sr. 
52 Braxston Cave Sr. 
throw against. South Florida space. 
QB 

11 Tommy Rees So. 
57 Mike Golic Jr. Sr. 

lost only one starter from its South Florida returns the C 2010 secondary and returns core of its defensive line and 
78 Trevor Robinson Sr. 
depth on its defensive line as linebacking corps, who will be 
RG 65 Conor Hanratty Fr. 
well. But given the wealth of even better than the 2010 unit, options he has when the Irish which ranked No. 4 in the na­
75 Taylor Dever Sr. 

spread the field, Crist will be tion in terms of rushing touch-RT 
72 Nick Martin Fr. 

able to take advantage of single downs allowed. The Bulls will coverage all over the field. almost certainly be able to force 80 Tyler Eifert Jr. the Irish to win through the air TE 83 Mike Ragone Sr. EDGE: NOTRE DAME and not on the ground. 
EDGE: EVEN 
WR 
3 Michael Floyd Sr. 
81 John Goodman Sr. 
IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 


Notre Dame Defense 
At this point, kicker David Ruffer is essentially automatic. One of 2010’s surprise stories, Ruffer returns for his final year of eligibil­ity and gives the Irish a sure scoring option any time they cross the 35-yard-line. 
The Irish were mediocre at best in the return game last year, and 
12 Robert Blanton Sr. 

Kelly has hinted that he may look to faces as familiar as Floyd to CB 
23 Lo Wood So. 
give the Irish an explosive option. Realistically, though, expect to see young, unproven playmakers returning kicks and punts. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 45 Darius Fleming Sr. 

22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 1 Ishaq Williams Fr. 

S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 


Notre Dame Specialists DE
48 Dan Fox Jr. 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
ILB 

44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
NG 
98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 
PK 
97 David Ruffer Sr. 
9 Louis Nix III So. 

5 Manti Te’o Jr. ILB 54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore Sr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 

P DE 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
LS  60  Jordan Cowart  Jr.  S  26 17  Jamoris Slaughter Zeke Motta  Sr. Jr.  OLB  55 13  Prince Shembo Danny Spond  So. So.  
PR  6  Theo Riddick  Jr.  CB  4 2  Gary Gray Bennett Jackson  Sr. So.  
KR  6 2  Theo Riddick Bennett Jackson  Jr. So.  
KO  27  Kyle Brindza  Fr.  
Predictions  

Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

South Florida is not a familiar name to most Irish fans – but the Bulls cannot be overlooked. Quar­terback B.J. Daniels leads a potent offensive attack, and the Bulls are quick on the defensive side of the ball. This will not be an easy test for the Irish – but they are up to the task. Dayne Crist has an em­

barrassment of targets when he throws the ball, and the ground game will be an ef­fective change of pace. On the other side of the ball, the defensive line will harass Daniels and limit his ef­fectiveness. 
It’s a season opener, though, and that will bring some jitters and mishaps with it. The Irish will win, but not quite as comfortably as they could have. The outcome, however, won’t be in doubt. 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 


All around the world opponents crumble for the Irish. 
Okay, not really. That’s the whole point of my column on page 2 of this Insider. 
Every year, the season-opener comes to Notre Dame ready for the biggest game of its life — see San Diego State, Nevada and Purdue 
over the last three years. Skip Holtz and South Florida will be just as motivated. 
But every year, the Irish come into their opener actu­ally ready for a game. For the past three years, Notre Dame has set fans aflutter with its opening-weekend flair. This year won’t be any different, but again, it’s only one weekend. 
So, for this weekend, the Irish can go ahead and just fly. 
Eric Prister 
Sports Writer 

For the first time in years, the Irish ended the season better than they started. Wins over rivals USC and Miami, as well as over Utah and Army, to end the 2010 campaign propelled Notre Dame into the off­season on a high note, leading to its highest preseason rank since 2006. Dayne Crist is healthy, Mi­
chael Floyd is back and the defense looks stronger than it has in some time. Brian Kelly has changed the attitude around the football program, and changed it for the better. The Irish are frankly tired of being average, of being just another Notre Dame team. Losses may come, because in games against Michigan and USC, anything can happen. But one will not come at the hands of the son of the last Irish coach to win a national championship. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, South Florida 21 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, South Florida 13 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23, South Florida 10 
USF OFFENSIVE COACHING USF RUSHING USF PASSING 
Offensive coordinator Todd South Florida lost talented The Bulls return only four Fitch’s unit sputtered as the running back Moise Plancher starters from an offense that 85th-ranked offense in the to graduation after rushing for ranked 101st in passing.  Se-country in points per game 793 yards and five touchdowns nior quarterback B.J. Daniels in 2010, with 24.1. The Bulls in 2010. The Bulls also enter returns to lead the South Flor-
o-Head struggled with both running 2011 returning only seniors Jer-ida passing attack. The 6-foot, and passing the ball, finishing emiah Warren and Chaz Hine 223-pound signal caller started No. 71 and No. 101, respectively. on the offensive line, so gaining 12 games last year, with mixed Much of their success against consistent yards on a talented results, as he threw 13 intercep­a talented Notre Dame defense Notre Dame front seven may tions and only 11 touchdowns in will depend on the performance prove to be difficult. those contests. of quarterback B.J. Daniels. The Irish only lose linebacker South Florida lost a starter at Brian Smith and nose guard Ian wide receiver, its tight end and 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME Williams from their front sev-three offensive linemen from en. The squad went 4-0 in the its pass attack. Junior receiver absence of Williams, who was Evan Landi caught 28 passes replaced by nose guards Sean for 390 yards and 2 touchdowns Cwynar and Hafis Williams. last season. 
6 Kayvon Webster Jr. Louis Nix enters the front seven Most of Notre Dame’s sec-CB 24 Ernie Tabuteau Jr. rotation this year, as do fresh-ondary remains intact after a men Aaron Lynch, Stephon Tuitt strong finish to the 2010 cam­16 Reshard Cliett Fr. and Ishaq Williams. The Irish paign. Harrison Smith, Gary OLB 13 Curtis Weatherspoon Sr. return its most talented group Gray, Robert Blanton, Jamoris of linebackers in recent mem-Slaughter and Zeke Motta all ory, with All-American candi-started or saw considerable ac-

USF Defense 
1 Jerrell Young Sr. 

97 Ryne Giddins So. date Manti Te’o, Darius Flem-tion last season and improved 
DE FS 26 Mark Joyce So. 
54 Julius Forte So. ing, Prince Shembo and new immensely during the course of 46 Cory Grissom Jr. starter junior Dan Fox, who the season. Smith is viewed as DT 53 Elkino Watson Fr. 36 Sam Barrington Jr. supplanted Carlo Calabrese as a potential All-American candi-MLB a starting inside linebacker. date after snagging the game­
91 Keith McCaskill Sr. 55 Michael Lanaris Jr. 
clinching interception at USC 

DT 92 Luke Sager So. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME and picking off Miami’s Jacory 41 Patrick Hamption Sr. 8 Jon Lejiste Jr. Harris three times in the Sun DE 96 Anthony Hill Jr. SS Bowl. 
4 Tyson Butler Sr. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
34 DeDe Lattimore So. 
OLB 
35 Mike Jeune Jr. 

CB 
2 Quenton Washington Sr. 
30 JaQuez Jenkins So. 

USF SPECIAL TEAMS 

USF Offense 
Kicker Maikon Bonani was one of the most consistent kickers in the Big East for the Bulls last season, converting 17-of-21 field goal 17 Sterling Griffin So. attempts, with a season-long of 47 yards. Punter Justin Brockhaus-WR 83 Deonte Welch Fr. Kann averaged 37.6 yards per punt in 2010, with a long of 57 yards. The Bulls have an explosive return game at both kick returner and punt returner. Punt returner Lindsay Lamar returned two 
kicks for scores last year. 
TE 
9 Evan Landi Jr. 
88 Andreas Shields Jr. EDGE: USF 
RT 
70 Quinterrius Eatmon Fr. 
73 Damien Edwards Jr. 
60 Danous Estenor Jr. 


RG USF Specialists 
66 Kevin McCaskill Sr. 

C LG LT  79 78 55 65 74 75  Chaz Hine Austin Reiter Jeremiah Warren Tony Kibler Mark Popek Darren Powe  Sr. Fr. Sr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  QB RB  7 13 21 3  BJ Daniels Boby Eveld Demetris Murray Darrell Scott  Jr. So. Jr. Jr.  PK P LS  28 18 68  Maikon Bonani Jr. Justin Brockhaus-Kann Jr. Mike Walsh Jr.  
PR  10  Terrence Mitchell  So.  
WR WR  11 80 25 15  AJ Love Stephen Bravo-Brown Joel Miller Victor Marc  Sr. So. Sr. Jr.  KR KO  5 99  Lindsey Lamar Marvin Kloss  Jr. Fr.  

Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

South Florida has no shortage of speed on its team, and should not be taken lightly. They enter 2011 as one of the favorites to win the Big East after finishing with an 8-5 record that was identical to Notre Dame’s in 2010. 
The Bulls will keep it close in the first half, but their inability to move 

the ball against a top-notch Irish defense will lead to excellent field position for a Notre Dame offense with plenty of playmakers. 
The Irish defense will be the best Notre Dame fans have seen since the ‘90s — even better than the 2002 unit that carried the team to a 10-win season, and it all starts with a dominating performance against a wor­thy opponent. Manti Te’o will anchor the defense to top­15 finishes in every major category. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame 27, South Florida 10 
Chris Masoud 
Assistant Managing Editor 


Notre Dame’s deceptively diffi­cult schedule begins this Saturday with a legitimate test in the form of South Florida. Dayne Crist’s re­turn to the offense brings back the deep game, setting up an interest­ing matchup with the experienced Bulls secondary. Skip Holtz’s long-awaited return to Notre Dame may 
be a welcome sight to some Irish fans, but I would have liked to see someone with a dif­ferent last name. 
Actually, Holtz is a good coach because he’s a good coach, and South Florida is a good team because of B.J. Daniels. As long as the defensive line holds, the outside backers keep containment and Manti Te’o introduces himself to Daniels, the Irish should run away with the first win of the year. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, South Florida 13 

Dick Vitale 
@DickieV 
@NDObsSports Tough as USF is talented but the ND fighting IRISH will make their faithful happy 31- 24! Cant wait to have fun @ ND! 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, South Florida 24 

Via Twitter 



Skip Holtz downplays his return to Notre Dame 
By ALLAN JOSEPH coach Faust and [former Irish bas-Sports Editor ketball coach] Digger Phelps and 
toured the campus,” Holtz said. “I 
When Skip Holtz was hired as fell in love with it and I said, ‘This is the head coach of South Florida in where I want to go to school.’” early January 2010, Irish fans im-While he was not admitted direct-mediately circled Sept. 3, 2011, on ly to the University, Holtz spent two their calendars as the date on which years at Holy Cross before transfer-a Holtz would once again be prowl-ring to Notre Dame and walking ing the sidelines of Notre Dame Sta-onto the football team during his dium. But if you ask Skip Holtz, his father’s first year at the helm. He homecoming is just one of the many spent one year on the team before 
subplots in the  graduating  and  
season opener  spending time at  
— and it’s no  Florida State as  
more impor­tant than any of the others. “ H a v i n g spent so much time as a stu­ “I just need to keep in perspective that the game is much bigger for South Florida than it is for Skip Holtz.”  a graduate assis­tant and at Colo­rado State as the wide receivers coach. In 1990, Holtz  
dent there, having played there, having  Skip Holtz South Florida coach  returned to Notre Dame Stadium as an assistant to his  
played  there  father in a posi­ 
and  having  tion  that  would  
coached there  springboard him  

for four years and with the success to his first head-coaching job at Con-my father had there, it is going to be necticut. Nevertheless, Holtz credits a very exciting time for me,” Skip his success to more than just his Holtz said in a press conference time at Notre Dame. 


last week. “But Notre Dame playing “Obviously we are who we are South Florida is much bigger than because of the experiences we have Skip Holtz returning.” had,” he said. “Lou Holtz has been 

Holtz’s roots in South Bend stretch a huge influence in my life. He and back to his search for a college at a [former Florida State coach] Bobby and the traditional things on cam-maintain resolve in order to keep his No matter what emotions arise be-time when Gerry Faust coached the Bowden and [former Colorado State pus and explain what they’re walk-emotions in check. fore the game, Holtz knows that kick-Irish and Skip’s father, Lou, was the coach] Earle Bruce have shaped ing into,” Holtz said. “It will be more “I just need to keep in perspec-off will bring him into a familiar focus. head coach at Arkansas, yet to take me.” of an educational purpose — I don’t tive that the game is much bigger “It will be a very memorable day — the reins of the Notre Dame pro-Now that he has the reins of his want them to be oohed and aahed. for South Florida than it is for Skip a day I will always remember and a gram. Holtz visited campus during own BCS-conference program, how-… It will be more facts about the Sta-Holtz,” he said. “I’ll have to put my very emotional day for me,” he said. high school as a prospective football ever, Holtz said he plans to focus only dium and the history than my per-enthusiasm in being back on the “[But] once the ball is on the tee, it’s and basketball player. on the aspects of his homecoming sonal experiences.” back shelf. We’ll start talking and time for the game.” 
“[Lou] was giving a speech in Chi-that will help his Bulls avoid being With so much of his personal his-addressing Notre Dame and [its] cago, and then we went and took a overwhelmed. tory tied up with Notre Dame foot-personnel and talking about playing Contact Allan Joseph at day in South Bend and we met with “I’ll talk about Touchdown Jesus ball, Holtz admits he will have to at Notre Dame.” ajoseph2@nd.edu 




Monday-Friday 6:30-2:00pm Saturday-Sunday 7:00-2:00pm 
















127 S. Michigan Street Downtown South Bend 288-PEEP Big Groups Welcome…call ahead available 



















































