
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND researchers pioneer ER technology 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
University research is giving trauma victims a greater chance of survival, according to Dr. Fran­cis Castellino, director of Notre Dame’s W.M. Keck Center for Transgene Research. 
Researchers at the Keck Center, in collaboration with trauma phy­sicians from South Bend’s Memo­rial Hospital, are looking at blood coagulation, or clotting, using a thromboelastogram, a machine that breaks down how a patient’s blood coagulates, Castellino said. 
By using this machine in a new way, the researchers are finding out what specific blood product, such as platelets, plasma or red and white blood cells, a patient might need. 
“We save lives by doing state-of­the-art early trauma care,” Castel­lino said. “We’re looking at blood clotting in real time at the point of care, whether that be at the bed­side of the far-forward battlefield, like the front lines.” 
This real time analysis leads to quicker treatment as well as specified treatment, called “goal­directed point of care therapy,” Castellino said. 
Besides saving lives of trauma victims, who need treatment as fast as possible, these new ground­breaking developments in the field of coagulation research are also saving precious blood products.
  “Treatments now are shooting blood into patients [instead of find­ing out what blood product they need],” Castellino said. “This re­search is taking it a step forward.” 
Dr. Mark Walsh, a trauma physi­cian at Memorial Hospital, said the goal-directed therapy is helpful in the emergency room. 
“We can save blood products — we don’t want to waste them,” he said. “We can give this goal — di­rected blood component therapy instead of fixed ratios. We can ad­just our ratios based on what the patient needs.” 
The research out of Castellino’s lab is like nothing else in the na­tion, Walsh said. Only three to four other labs are doing any research 

see ER/page 5 



Architecture professor leads Taj Mahal preservation 
By MEL FLANAGAN search and Material Analysis what they looked like otherwise create and capture the 3-D co-about the site that allow you to News Writer (DHARMA) team in 2007. we might repair them wrong.” ordinates of every surface you reconstruct it without any infor-
The team, comprised of Krus-DHARMA’s initial project want to document.” mation being missed,” she said. 
Imagine if we could have che, assistant professor of ar-of documenting four tombs in Anders, who co-founded The DHARMA team is also known the Seven Wonders of chitecture Selena Anders and Agra, India, including the Taj DHARMA as a graduate student, working with the Office of Infor­the Ancient World — what they graduate and undergraduate ar-Mahal, began in 2008 and is on-helped the University acquire mation and Technology (OIT) to looked like, how they were built. chitecture students, studies and going. the scanner, a high-end device employ GigaPan technology. 
Assistant professor of archi-documents historical sites in or-Krusche said the process con-that not many schools have ac-“This is when you take a mul­tecture Krupali Krusche la-der to create highly detailed, 3-D sists of multiple methods of mea-cess to. titude of photos, say 500, and ments not having the opportu-images that can later be used for surement and documentation The DHARMA team works you put them together to create nity to study these architectural the preservation of the sites. that are fused together to form with the Center for Research an image that is in gigapixels,” phenomenons, which is why she “These historical sites have a complete digital image of the Computing (CRC) to access the Krusche said. “It is very heavy, has undertaken the task of digi-just never been documented site. technology needed to create 3-D but very detailed.” tally documenting World Heri-very well before,” DHARMA “Our biggest investment has views of the site. Krusche said this technology tage Sites such as the Taj Mahal. team member Jack Bangs said. been in the 3-D scanning tech-“If anything happens to the has the ability to zoom in ex-
Krusche founded the Digital “As they age slowly, in order to nology,” she said. “It is a 3-D la-site in the near future, there are Historical Architectural Re-repair them we need to know ser scanner that allows you to exact data coordinates available see RESEARCH/page 5 

Students discover ‘footprint’ 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
It takes a lot to outfit a Notre Dame student — clothes, electronics and oth­er various school supplies. Ever wonder who made all of those things? 
On Wednesday, ND8 hosted an event in the Dooley Room of LaFortune where students could look up their “slavery footprint,” an estimation of the number of modern-day slaves involved with the pro­duction of the items they use. 
This event was the second in a month-long series focus­ing on the problems of hu­man trafficking and modern day slavery. 
Sophomore John Gibbons, co-president of ND8, said the goal is to take a holistic look at the issues so the various aspects of these global prob­lems are brought to the at­tention of a larger audience. 
“A fair amount of the popu­lation knows so little about these problems,” Gibbons said. “Our main goal is to raise awareness about them so that it inspires people to think about it more and what they can do to help.” 
All of the groups involved were motivated by a desire to increase awareness of these issues, inspiring students to help those affected and giv­ing those students ways to 

Workshop addresses race relations in dorms 
By BROOKE KOVANDA 
News Writer 
Wednesday night was a night of awareness, understanding and acceptance of multicultural­ism on Notre Dame’s campus. 
Movimiento Estudiantil Chica­no de Aztlán (MEChA), a Latino student activist group promoting social reform, student govern­ment and the Diversity Council presented a workshop on race relations in residence halls in Geddes Hall. 
Senior Maya Younes, the di­versity representative for ME-ChA, organized the workshop, centered around discussing challenges in promoting mul­ticulturalism in dorm life and 
eliminating  instances  of  dis­ 
crimination  through  racial  
awareness.  

“Conversations on discrimina­
tion in dorms have been occur­ring on a small scale across cam­pus and I realized that in order to make long-lasting improve­ments to the experience of mul­ticultural students in dorms, we needed to open that conversation to administrators who directly oversee housing,” Younes said. “Part of the movement to creat­ing a better community is shar­ing your experience with others.” 
The event began with a story regarding racial conflict in one of the residence halls, and followed with small groups of students and peer mediators discussing their reactions, findings and per­sonal experiences with race rela­tions in residence life. 
Two central topics of workshop were the “Spirit of Inclusion” and “Awareness.” 
see RACE/page 5 

respond. 
Rosie McDowell, director of International Community Based Learning and Out­reach at the CSC, said the Center’s focus in the series was to help student groups to collaborate in order to better address social issues through the lens of Catholic Social Teaching. 
“One of the things we try 
see CSC/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER “Children of the Holocaust” exhibit page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u “The Catholicism Project” preview page 8 u A conversation with Digger Phelps page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAy-to-DAy Thursday, November 10, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL YOU BE REMEMBERED FOR? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Lisa Carlson  Karina Lizzi  Sarah Guiterrez  Shane Kelly  Heather Chiarello  Thomas Bender  
sophomore Pasquerilla West  senior Pangborn  senior Pasquerilla East  sophomore Keenan  junior Pasquerilla West  sophomore Keenan  
“Statistically, probably  “KNL Week and being Karina  “Getting a fracture in lab.”  “The ‘incident’ in O’Neill.”  “My aggressively friendly hugs!”  “My intensity. We don’t lose!”  
nothing.”  from the block.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Nose biting earns poll worker jail time 
CLEVELAND -- A poll worker suspected of try­ing to bite off the nose of a voter during an Election Day argument surren­dered to sheriff’s deputies on Wednesday. 
James N. Williams turned himself in at the Justice Center, which houses police headquar­ters and the courts, and was jailed to await pos­sible charges, police spokesman Sgt. Sammy Morris said. The case was investigated as a suspect­ed felonious assault. 
Williams, 53, is accused of trying to bite off the nose of a voter who helped a campaign volunteer in an argument over signs posted near a Cleveland polling place on Tuesday. 

The head-butting and nose-biting landed voter Greg Flanagan, 49, in a hospital for treatment, authorities said, and he was still feeling dizzy hours after his release. 
“I’m glad that he turned himself in because that’s the first right decision he’s made in the last 24 hours,” Flanagan said af­ter hearing of Williams’ surrender. 
Maui bull freed after giant tire stuck on head 
KULA, Hawaii -- A ro­deo bull in Hawaii has been freed from a giant tire that was stuck on his head for about 20 hours. 
The bull, named Sky-walker, couldn’t eat or drink after he got his head lodged in the truck tire dumped at the Tri­ple L Ranch in Maui. The tire weighs more than 50 pounds. 
When the bull became exhausted enough to be approached, a ranch worker pried the tire off with a piece of wood. 
Ranch owner Paige De Ponte says Skywalker seems fine now that he’s free from the rubber ring. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF: 
The Notre Dame Inter­national Security Program and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies will host Dr. Josef Joffe, pub-lisher-editor of the German weekly “Die Zeit” and Vis­iting Professor of Political Science at Stanford Univer­sity. He will give a lecture titled, “Barack Obama, Fol­lower of the Free World.” Jofee will speak at 4 p.m. in 119 O’Shaughnessy Hall. A discussion will follow the lecture, which is free and open to the public. 
Now in the final two months before it disbands, the Merce Cunningham Dance Company will per­form at the Debartolo Per­forming Arts Center at 7 
p.m. Tickets are $15-$40. 
The program is comprised of three of Cunningham’s seminal works, and will feature Suite for Five, first performed at Notre Dame in 1956. 
Taste of ND will take place in the Lafortune Ball­room from 7 -9 p.m. Partic­ipating dorm food sales are St. Edward’s, Welsh Family, Morrissey, Siegfried, McG­linn, Keough, Keenan, Dil­lon and Knott. The price is $2 for an all you can eat admission to the event. 
Carolyn Woo, Dean of the Mendoza College of Busi­ness since 1997, will speak in Menoza’s Jordan Audito­rium as a part of The Last Lecture Series. Doors open at 6:30. This event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Emily Schrank Anna Boarini Nicole Michels 
Graphics 
Elisa De Castro 
Photo 
Sarah O’Connor 


Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Cory Bernard Vicky Jacobsen 

Scene 
Alexandra Kilpatrick 


Viewpoint 
LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 35 LOW 31 

HIGH 49 LOW 37 
HIGH 57 LOW 49 
HIGH 60 LOW 56 
HIGH 61 LOW 38 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
Amber Galik 








CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
College displays Holocaust art 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
After more than 65 years since the end of World War II, students at Saint Mary’s are still learning about the lasting effects the Holocaust had on its victims and its survivors. 
Misti Garner, a teacher with the School City of Mish­awaka, introduces the “Chil­dren of the Holocaust” art exhibit in Spes Unica Hall, which features 50 pieces of art and poetry, as well as two sculptures, Wednesday. 
Garner worked with lo­cal students, ages 9 to 17, to read, discuss, interpret and express their feelings about the Holocaust through art and poetry. 
“These kids are street­wise,” Garner said. “They know about the prejudices between blacks and whites, but that is the only prejudice they knew about.” 
Garner and her students studied the Holocaust for an entire year and during part of the summer as well. While learning the vivid de­tails about death camps and how Nazi soldiers treated their prisoners, the students were sad and shocked, Gar­ner said. 
“The students did not real­ize that this type of suffer­ing could exist because of faith,” Garner said. “They did not know what being Jewish was.” 
At the end of the display, the pieces of artwork told some of the students’ own stories of suffering through poetry and paintings. 
“My students told me, ‘If those people can survive the Holocaust, then I can sur­vive what I’ve been through,’ which really resonated in me,” Garner said. 
Garner said her students learned that they were not alone in their suffer­ing through their study of the Holocaust. 
“The theme throughout the exhibit is the degree of suffering people in the Holocaust endured,” Garner said. “The stu­dents felt that they were the only people suffering in society, but now, after learning about the Holo­caust, they see there are more people they did not know about who suffer also.” 
The art exhibit at Saint Mary’s is a part of a week of events commemorat­ing Kristallnacht, the of­ficial beginning of the violence against Jews in Nazi Germany on Nov. 9, 1938, which led to the Ho­locaust. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


STUDENT SENATE 
Senate passes resolution to amend constitution 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate unani­mously approved a resolution to amend the Student Union constitution by adding in­structions to fill vacant stu­dent government positions Wednesday. 
Oversight committee chair Ben Noe said the subcommit­tee for constitutional reforms recommended several chang­es that he and his committee wrote into a resolution. 
The first addition inserted a clause detailing the proce­dures to remove a committee chair. Previously, the consti­tution did not contain a way to remove a chair if neces­sary. 
“This is kind of a problem because if committee chairs are slacking and not doing their jobs right, they may need to be removed,” Noe said. 
The resolution also modi­fied the instructions for the selection of the Student Union treasure. 
“In the constitution the way the Student Union treasurer is replaced is that they ap­point one of the assistant Stu­dent Union treasurers,” Noe said. “What if neither of the assistants are available to take the role of the Student Union treasurer?” 
Following the amendment, if this scenario were to occur, the Student Union treasurer would have two options. 
If he or she was available to serve another term, the trea­surer could reappoint him­self or herself. Otherwise, the treasurer can open the posi­tion up to applications from the student body. 
“We thought this increased the transparency and open­ness of student government so we can get some people who have not been involved in stu­dent government for years at a time into the top positions,” he said. 
Similarly, another clause opened up the positions of ju­dicial council vice presidents to the entire student body. 
While the judicial council president has the final say over who is selected as vice presidents, Noe said this step encourages students who have not previously been involved with the council to apply. 
“Once again, this is with the intent of increasing the openness of student govern­ment,” he said. “We’re trying to make positions of some au­thority open to everyone.” 
The last modification to the constitution eased the pro­cess of replacing officer posi­tions. 
“These changes are being made to make student gov­ernment more open to the student body as a whole, and also to just make some tech­nical changes that needed to be made,” Noe said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s sponsors Holy Cross Harvest 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College kicked off the second annual Holy Cross Harvest, a large-scale donation drive to benefit the Northern In­diana Food Bank, on Monday. 
Carrie Call, director of the Of­fice for Civic and Social Engage­ment (OCSE), said she would like to see a majority of the Saint Mary’s community participate in the event. 
“The Harvest shows us how a small amount of money can make a big difference,” Call said. “Plus it is important to remem­ber that hunger is very real in our area and many families are struggling. It is our responsibil­ity to act.” 
The Holy Cross Harvest start­ed last year in response to the declining economy, as many families struggled to put food on the tables, Call said. 
Saint Mary’s has also joined with Notre Dame and Holy Cross College to combat hunger in the community. 
“The three schools can work together to make an impact in the community,” Call said. 
Call said she is asking for stu­dents to donate $1, which can help provide up to eight meals. 
Last year, the Harvest brought in more than $800. Call said she hopes to surpass that amount this year. 
“If every person on this cam­pus gave just $1, we could pro­vide hundreds of meals to fami­lies in need,” Call said. “I’d like to beat that this year by at least $100.” 
Junior Kelly Roepke, student director of OCSE, acknowledged the importance of the Holy Cross Harvest. 
“Students don’t realize how much a dollar can do,” Roepke said. “It really does make a sig­nificant difference.” 
The Harvest will run through Nov. 17. 
Contact Madeline Miles mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Thursday, November 10, 2011 
Lecture promotes fair trade outlet in South Bend 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY  loads of carrots down field  processed fiber to make their said. “I didn’t want to shop in a  
Saint Mary’s Editor  rows.  goods asked if Reimbold knew way that supported sweat shops  
“Here I was in the prime of  of a place in the United States and child labor, and there just  
The daughter of a firefight- my life … and I could barely  where they could sell their weren’t a lot of consumer choic­ 
er and parks board member,  make it down to the end of that  products. es in our area at that time. Low  
Becky Reimbold learned at an  row, and here were these little  Reimbold said she took on and behold, four months later  
early age the importance of giv­ children and that’s what they  the experi-I was having  
ing back to the community.  did with their days,” she said.  ence of selling my first trunk  
Reimbold, proprietor of the Just Goods fair trade store in South Bend, said she didn’t in­tend on giving back to the com­munity by becoming a retailer,  “We can learn about things, hear about them, read about them, but when we feel them physically and make human connections, we’re changed.”  the products “If we feel glad about show in my in the United what we’re doing and it home.” States herself. Later, Reim­meets a need, then we’ve “I think [my bold opened found our calling.” decision] was her fair trade  
but realized her store can help make a change in the world. “If we feel glad about what  And she was. “I came back knowing that I couldn’t just live life normally,”  a combina­store “Just Becky Reimbold tion of being Goods” in kind of stir-proprietor South Bend,  
we’re doing, and it meets a  she said.  crazy — I was Just Goods and has  
need, then we’ve found our  Instead, she continued to re- at home with paired with  
calling,” she said.  search international affairs,  the kids and international  
Reimbold, a graduate of Ken- and took a second trip to Ec­ lots of diapers — and maybe a organizations including Mu- 
yon College in Ohio, spent part  uador with her children 10 to  bit of a calling,” she said. “[I jeres Medio Ambiente, Fui Re- 
of her college career research­ 12 years after her first stay in  thought], maybe this is some­ciclado and Global Mamas.  
ing international studies in Ec- Quito, Ecuador.  thing I should do.’” These partnerships provide  
uador. While there, she experi- While there, she visited the  When she realized there an underlying thread that  
enced something that changed  Cloud Forest where she met a  were very few fair trade outlets keeps Reimbold’s goal of mak­ 
her life forever.  women’s co-operative, Mujeres  in South Bend, she decided to ing a difference alive, she said.  
She spent a day working with  Medio Ambiente. The group  start one. “[Fair Trade] is not a trad­ 
children in a carrot field, where  of 35 single women who use  “I was trying to live a life that ing partnership where one can  
children would pack heavy  locally harvested and hand- was in line with my values,” she say, ‘Ok it probably cost you this  

much to make this … so give me 10 of them, and I’ll pay you a fair price,’” she said. 
“It’s more about, ‘Well tell me about your work. What do you need? What is it like in your community? What do you need in order to put food on the ta­ble? There’s a lot more to [the partnership]. It’s long-term and ongoing.” 
These kinds of questions up­hold the key principles of fair trade — to support safe and empowering working condi­tions, ensure the rights of chil­dren, cultivate environmental stewardships and respect cul­tural identity, she said. 
Reimbold said if consumers want to buy fair trade, they simply have to look for certi­fied fair trade labels such as the Fair Trade Federation logo or the World Fair Trade Orga­nization. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Dr. Murray discusses trial, Jackson’s final day 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — The doctor convicted of killing Michael Jack­son never testified at his trial, but he is now defending himself in multiple NBC interviews taped just days before a jury returned his guilty verdict. 
NBC’s “Today” show planned to broadcast interviews with Dr. Conrad Murray in which he defends his use of the surgical anesthetic propofol to put Jack­son to sleep. Although multiple experts testified at his trial that propofol should not have been administered in Jackson’s home, the doctor disagreed. 
“I think propofol is not recom­mended to be given in the home setting,” Murray said, “but it is not contraindicated.” 
He also said Jackson had been using the substance long before the pop star met Murray. 
The interview with the Hous­ton cardiologist, who was found guilty of involuntary manslaugh­ter Monday, is set to air Thursday and Friday. NBC released ex­cerpts of the interview Wednes­day. 
Under questioning by the “To­day” show’s Savannah Guthrie, Murray said it was not neces­sary for him to monitor Jackson because he had given him only a small dose of propofol, and he said that was the reason he didn’t mention it to paramedics when they arrived at Jackson’s man­sion. 
“That’s a very sad reason,” he said, “because it was inconse­quential — 25 milligrams and the effect’s gone. Means nothing.” 
Guthrie asked, “Well, you told them about the other drugs, but you didn’t tell them about propo­fol?” 
“Because it had no effect,” Murray said. “It was not an is­sue.” 
The coroner would subse­quently find that Jackson, 50, died of “acute propofol intoxi­cation” after a huge dose of the drug complicated by other seda­tives. 
Murray’s defense tried to show that Jackson gave himself an ex­tra dose of propofol while Murray was out of the room, but pros­ecution experts said there was no evidence of that and it was a crazy theory. 
Asked by Guthrie if he became distracted by phone calls, email­ing and text messages, Murray said, “No I was not.” 
“When I looked at a man who was all night deprived of sleep, who was desperate for sleep and finally is getting some sleep, am I gonna sit over him, sit around him, tug on his feet, do anything unusual to wake him up? No,” Murray said. 
“You walked out of the room to talk on the phone?” Guthrie asked. 
“Absolutely, I wanted him to rest.” 
He insisted Jackson was not on an infusion that would stop his breathing and, “I was not sup­posed to be monitoring him at that time because there was no need for monitoring.” 
Other doctors testified at Mur­ray’s trial that leaving a patient alone after giving him an anes­thetic was an egregious devia­tion from the standard of care expected of a physician. 
In one exchange, Murray sug­gested that had he known that Jackson had a problem with ad­diction to medications he might have acted differently. Experts testified that he should have re­searched Jackson’s medical his­tory before he undertook his treatment for insomnia. 
On the day Jackson died, June 25, 2009, Murray said he be­lieved he had weaned the singer off of propofol, the drug Jackson called his “milk.” 
But when Jackson could not sleep, Murray told “Today,” he gave the entertainer a very small dose of propofol. 
In retrospect, he said he prob­ably should have walked away when Jackson asked for propofol. But he said he would have been abandoning a friend. 
Meanwhile, the disclosure that MSNBC will air a documentary about Murray brought outrage Wednesday from the executors of Jackson’s estate, who said Murray is getting a prime-time platform to smear Jackson’s reputation without fear of cross-examination. 



Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
CSC to bring this event to is currently making its way 
“Our hope is that this is an Notre Dame, and Rosie Mc-through the House and the 
ongoing process in helping the 
CSC 

Dowell thought that the In-Senate because it is due 
Research 

local authorities there to get visible Children event could to expire at the end of this 
trained in such technology and continued from page 1 be a part of a larger conver-year,” she said. “We want 
continued from page 1 at the same time to be able to sation on human trafficking to mobilize students to con-
digitally document as many sites to do at the Center is to en-and modern day slavery,” tact their representatives to 
tremely close on pictures that as possible so there is informa­courage collaboration among Boykin said. encourage them to pass this 
were taken from very far away. tion about them for their pros-student groups, and to give Senior Sarah Commis-bill.” 
“We use this technology to perity,” she said. them support and resources key, president of the Invis-Hattler said the bill pro-
document the site in such a The DHARMA team is also to move forward with edu-ible Children club at Saint vides crucial funding for 
way that when you come back working on another project, the cational events about social Mary’s, also focused her ef-programs aiding the victims 
you have all possible informa-documentation of the Roman Fo­issues for the campus and in forts at showing this docu-of sexual trafficking, and is 
tion about it, including what you rum the community,” McDowell mentary on campus. crucial in its ability to set 
would possibly not see when you Krusche said the team has said. “I wanted to spread the the standard international-
are there,” she said. “You can already taken 3-D scans of the The series kicked off on word, just really to advocate ly for nations attempting to 
look at cracks on the surface, Forum, and they are currently Nov. 3 with a showing of the for Invisible Children, and in combat the problem. 
other sorts of damages or even creating vellum drawings and Invisible Children documen-the best case scenario, turn The goal of the groups in-
make offsite discoveries about watercolor palates of it. tary “Tony,” which docu-apathy into action,” Commis-volved with this series is not 
the site itself.” Anders, who has been involved mented the struggle to end key said.  “I want to really only to raise awareness, Gib-
After these two steps, Krus-with both the India and Rome the use of child soldiers by get people so fired up that bons said, but also to provide 
che said the teams from CRC projects, said people are often the Lord’s Resistance Army they do something about it.” tangible ways for students to 
and OIT merge the data from the surprised at how little is known in Uganda. Sophomore Erin Hattler, act. 
3-D scans with the GigaPan im-about such familiar buildings as The St. Mary’s Invisible co-president of ND8, said “While we want to bring 
ages to create 3-D views that are the Forum and the Taj Mahal. Children club and the Notre students can get involved in these harsh realities to life, 
photo real. “By documenting these things Dame club Inspire were the cause by donating to or-at the same time we want 
The third form of documenta-from the large scale to the min-heavily involved in bringing ganizations Catholic Relief to show that there are ways 
tion is hand measuring, which ute, we have these examples for the film screening to cam-Services and by pressuring to work toward changing 
the DHARMA students complete the rest of history,” she said. “I pus. lawmakers to enact legisla-them,” he said. “We want 
while on site. think we take for granted these Olevia Boykin, president tion protecting victims and to show people that there is 
For the project in India, Krus-wonderful things that we’re fa-of Inspire, said Invisible to not cut the budget allotted hope and that there are ways 
che said the majority of the sites miliar with visually, but surpris-Children contacted her over for international aid. to address these daunting 
have been hand measured, and ingly are not as well documented the summer about doing a “The bill [the Traffick-problems.” 
the team will be traveling there as they could be.” screening of “Tony” on Notre ing Victims Protection Re-
for 10 days in January to 3-D Dame’s campus. authorization Act of 2011], Contact Nicole Michels at 
scan the tombs of Akbar and Contact Mel Flanagan at “We paired up with the originally passed in 2000, nmichels@nd.edu 
Itmad-ud-Dauluh. mflanag3@nd.edu 
ER 
The group has published two papers on this coagulation re­search since the beginning of the continued from page 1 collaboration a year-and-a-half ago, and has several more waiting like this in the nation. for publication, he said. 
“We would have nothing of sci-“These are pioneering papers,” entific value without Castellino,” Castellino said. “We have had ma-he said. “We continue to refine our jor collaboration with schools like parameters of treatment based in the University of Colorado Medical his research.” School.” 
Besides trauma benefits, the Also in progress is an applica­research out of this collaboration tion for a Department of Defense has also helped identify gene mu-grant, according to Ploplis. tations in genetic coagulation dis-“We have a good chance of get-orders, according to Dr. Victoria ting the grant because we have Ploplis, the associate director for people at both ends of the re-the Keck Center. search,” she said. “We have the 
“No one has ever identified what scientists, and we have the physi­is going on with the platelets,” she cians implementing the research said. into their treatments. It’s transla-
The Keck Center, which has tional.” spent the last 40 years research-Castellino said he hopes to see ing genetic disorders, is the lab this research implemented on the for expertise in blood coagulation, battlefield. according to Castellino. This col-“I can see it implemented in laborative research has identified the military,” he said. “These ma-platelet receptor mutations for sev-chines are small, and you can have eral coagulation diseases, includ-one in the field to diagnose what a ing two separate mutations with victim needs.” Bernard-Soulier syndrome, a de­fect where the platelets don’t con-Contact Amanda Gray at nect to the walls of blood vessels. agray3@nd.edu 
ing cultural awareness among 
Race 
his friends. 
“It was more like trying to have continued from page 1 everybody else understand where you’re coming from,” he said. “So When discussing the “Spirit of I know last year, one of the things Inclusion,” many students identi-I did [to have my roommates un­fied the size of their dorm as a derstand where I was coming crucial factor in cohesion among from], was I would try to invite residents, as well as the level of them to dinners I made or events comfort felt in interactions with so they could kind of understand rectors and resident assistants. me culturally to eliminate the 
Senior Amanda Meza said it issue of ignorance and promote is important for students to feel sensitivity to certain things.” that they are respected within The workshop concluded with their residence halls. students filling out evaluations 
“You have one space on the and surveys that would provide entire campus that you can call invaluable information needed to yours, and you have to share it create changes in dorm life. your freshman year, so it’s re-Younes said this was the first ally sacred to feel at home,” she of many workshops and discus-said. “We have to live with one sions to come. another and deal with one an-“We are all part of the same other, and a huge thing about the community and must live in soli­‘Spirit of Inclusion’ is respect. I’d darity with each other to create like to see more action and com-a welcoming environment for all, munication.” regardless of race, ethnicity or 
Students at the workshop also belief,” she said. “This conversa­considered the impact cultural tion fulfills the mission of Notre events had on creating con-Dame by promoting a community sciousness about other ethnici-where everyone has a voice.” ties. 
Sophomore Omar Garcia ex-Contact Brooke Kovanda at plained his approach to promot-bkovanda@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, November 10, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
NBA nostalgia 
I miss the NBA. There, I said it. 

After spending the last several weeks completely unnerved over the failure of the players and owners to reach a new collective bargaining agreement in time for the beginning of the season, I believe I have reached a point where I am no longer angry; instead I’m just sad. 
I miss my home­town Chicago Bulls. I miss watching my favorite player, reigning NBA MVP Derrick Rose, an­nihilate the com­petition. I miss the enthusiasm and tenacity that Joakim Noah brings to the court each night. I miss watch­ing Luol Deng use his length to stifle opposing scorers. Most of all, I miss watching the games and seeing the United Center filled to capacity willing my beloved team to victory. 
Last spring, when I was supposed to be studying for finals, I devoted most of my attention to the Western Conference semi-finals. In that round, I watched Phil Jackson’s final stand as his Los Angeles Lakers squad was thoroughly dismantled by the Dallas Mavericks in four games. In the other semi-final, I watched the high-scoring and up-tempo war between the Okla­homa City Thunder and the Memphis Grizzlies. I watched my second fa­vorite player, Thunder forward Kevin Durant, score points by the truckload. I watched Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook struggle with whether he wanted to be a great player or a good scorer. I watched guys like Tony Allen, Zach Randolph and OJ Mayo shake off their ugly “me-first” reputations and became solid team players for the Grizzlies. Even with four finals hang­ing over my head, I loved that week. 
One round later, I watched in horror as the villainous “Big Three” of the Miami Heat topped my Bulls. I watched the Mavericks topple the Thunder, with veterans like Dirk Nowitzki, Jason Kidd, Shawn Marion, Tyson Chandler and Jason Terry. I suffered through the talk of how LeBron James, Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh and the Heat were too dominant to allow the Mavericks a shot at winning. I was amused as I watched veterans Mike Bibby and Juwan Howard play in the NBA Finals. I cheered when Nowitzki brought the Mavericks back from 15 down to take Game Two. I was elated when I saw the underdog Mavericks clinch the NBA crown on the home court of the “Big Three.” After the final buzzer, I was moved when I watched Nowitzki, over­come by his emotions, run straight into the locker room to celebrate privately after so many years of trying. 
I love the NBA and I loved the joy of last spring’s playoffs. I understand that the NBA is a business, but I do not think that should deprive so many fans of the ability to watch one of the best games in the world played by some of the best athletes in the world. I realize the league will undoubtedly lose some fans whenever this is resolved, but I vow I will not be among them. If you are a fan, I implore you to take the high road and do the same. 
Contact Walker Carey at       wcarey@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Stay alert: for the Kingdom of God is at hand 
As the Liturgical year comes to a close, the Gospels are becoming increasingly apocalyptic in tone: ques­tions to Jesus about the end of the world; parables from Jesus about the 
last days. One of  
the first came this  
past Sunday: the  Fr. Lou DelFra  
Parable of the Ten  
Virgins — five of  Faithpoint  
whom are pre­ 

pared with lamps full of oil to greet the Bridegroom, and five of whom are not. While the five unprepared virgins are away buying oil, the bridegroom arrives, enters the wedding feast with the five prepared virgins, and the door is locked. “So stay awake,” concludes Jesus, “for you know neither the day nor the hour.” End of parable. The door is locked. The end of the world. It is not in our hands, so be prepared. 
Yet, as important as such a reading is, it seems to me that it is only part of the meaning of the parable. What else is the parable about? 
Perhaps, in response, I could tell a simple personal story. It would be one any of us could tell, because some­thing similar has happened to each of us in our own way. I was in my first year of teaching middle school reli­gion. Like all teachers, I had one of those trouble students — the one who just drove me nuts on a daily basis. Oddly enough, the most troublesome students would often be the ones most likely to stop by my classroom at the end of the day — mostly, just to bother me some more! 
So this student would often hang around in my classroom at the end of the day when I would be grading papers or getting the next day’s lessons prepared. I was always too busy for him. Or, more accurately, I made sure I was too busy for him! 

Then one day in the spring semes­ter, after almost a year of his antics, the weather had turned nice again so I asked him if he wanted to go outside and have a baseball catch. We grabbed some gloves and a baseball, walked outside and began to throw. And, as happens during baseball catches, we started to talk. We talked about his other classes, his friends at school and then I asked him about his family. As we tossed the ball back and forth, I noticed that he had begun to cry. So we stopped throwing and started walking. And I heard the story of how this stu­dent’s parents had been going through a painful separation throughout that whole year, and had now decided to divorce. 
For the next three years, I accom­panied this student as he adjusted, sometimes painfully, to this new life. I think I served as an instrument of grace for him, providing some stability and care. And he served as an instrument of grace for me, calling me, at the very beginning of my teaching career, to slow down and come to a deeper under­standing of what was happening in my students’ lives. 
But it took me eight months of his persistent antics to finally catch on, and if he wasn’t so persistent, I would have missed it entirely. Or, in the imagery of the parable of the Ten Virgins, the door on that opportunity for grace would have closed and locked. 
We could each tell many such stories of missed opportunities due to busyness or distraction — all kinds of legitimate and not-so-legitimate reasons. We have all missed movements of God’s Spirit, right in front of us, in a person or an event or a quiet moment of prayer. So here is a second reading of Jesus’ Par­able of the Ten Virgins, and many of the apocalyptic readings we will hear in these last weeks of the year. Be alert, not just because the Kingdom of God will come in all its fullness at the end of time. Be alert because “the Kingdom of God is in your midst. The Kingdom of God is at hand.” Can we see it? Are we ready? Or are we too busy and dis­tracted? 
As I reflect on the Gospels and think about this encounter with my student I almost missed, I am struck by how often Jesus encounters a person who could easily be seen as inconvenient — a leper, a blind person, a deaf person, a Pharisee or his own disciples fighting. He never sees such people as an obsta­cle that he must get around so that he can continue his work of building up the Kingdom. Instead, he sees the Kingdom trying to break forth, right there, in that person who is right before him. 
Jesus’ life is one of utter conviction that “the Kingdom of God is in our midst. The Kingdom of God is at hand.” He calls us, his disciples, to the same conviction. 
Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is the Director of Pastoral Life for ACE and  a member of Campus Ministry.  He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You can’t wait for inspiration. You have to go after it with a club.” 
Jack London XXXX 


WEEKLY POLL 
What’s the best part of LaFun? 
Starbucks Computer lounge Subway The basement 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
HDDeficit
Floodwaters occupy Thailand. Be­yond the evident and tragic cost of hu­man life, the effects of the flooding are far-reaching for tech companies. 
In its wake, the flood has left ruined homes and inun­dated factories. Blake J. Graham More than 1,000 production build-Erudite ings that formerly Techno-Lust made equipment and components for the automotive and technology indus­tries sit silently while CEOs and manag­ers scramble to figure out how to pick up the slack. Most devastating is the effect on the companies who manufac­ture hard disk drives (HDDs). 
The hard drive is the storage complex of technology. Any information con­tained within a closed system is placed onto the HDD (or equivalent such as an SSD) where it can be retrieved by any program that needs it. 
Thailand’s government predicts the rise of the water until the end of the year, but even when the water recedes, there’s no knowing how long it will take to resume factory operation. The effects have yet to take a major hold on the market as drives have been pro­duced to meet demand through Decem­ber. Come quarter one of 2012, hard drives will be out of supply. Apple CEO Tim Cook is on record predicting “an overall industry shortage.” 
Production will decrease by approxi­mately 30 percent, or 50 million units. Factories in China, Malaysia and the Philippines owned by Western Digital, Seagate and Asus are already at 90-98 percent capacity — they cannot make up the substantial difference. 
With the production of HDDs not resuming until February at the earliest, the manufacturers are already experi­encing price increases in distribution channels. In some cases, distributors are stockpiling to wait out the period. PC manufacturers, looking to keep the cost of their machines down, are searching the grey market for cheaper devices. The result would put volatile drives in consumer devices. 
PCs are not the only technologies operating on hard drive storage plat­forms. Companies like Amazon, Micro­soft, Google, Apple and Facebook all purchase massive amounts of enter­prise grade storage to hold the data constantly served on the Internet. The amount of information users dump into these cloud-based services accumulates on a super-massive scale. You can’t expand the Internet without expand­ing storage drives. When we reach the point when Google and Facebook cannot access or procure the drives they need, the Internet, as a whole, is in trouble. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Occupy Rainbow Road 
Dear Notre Dame campus, 

Our obsession with Mario Kart needs to end. The game has been a legitimate phenomenon for years, despite the serious design flaws and faux pas that plague each iteration. 
Problem #1: While Mario Kart is lauded as “a fun party game” where “anyone can win,” it remains openly hostile to guests and new players. Dangerous levels lend themselves to memorization, and advanced strategies guarded by the best-educated players render blue collar racers helpless. Some identify the “catch up” power-up handouts as a solution to this issue, but these are band-aid solutions that do not address the crux of the problem. 
Problem #2: Mario Kart pits its players against its courses, not each other. It is very easy to forget about your company mid-race due to the punishing, in-your­face antics of the course itself. It becomes a struggle against the system, alienat­ing players from the human element and each other. 
Problem #3: There is a poor correlation between expected modes of effort and reward. Game Design 101: if rewards do not meet player expectations, frus­tration will be quick to set in. And yet, Mario Kart awards the eggheads who practice power slides and inventory management over those who can actually aim a green shell. The dominance of these white-collar skill sets feels unintui­tive, artificial and dissonant in the context of something that presents itself as a simple contest of effort. 
Problem #4: Players who lag behind will encounter more banana obstacles on each lap than players up front. Excuse the pun, but the bottom rungs of the lad­der become quite slippery. 
Mario Kart does have two saving graces, though: It starts all players on the same footing and it teaches those of us in the mediocre ranks to accept our place there. Why does the racer in 12th always pummel the one in 11th? He gains more by listening to what the game is trying to teach him: We all drive the same three laps in life, regardless of our station. But once you have had this epiphany, there is simply no reason to play Mario Kart. 
Chris Mathew 
senior Stanford Hall Nov. 9 


The problem lies in the fact that the Internet was built on the assumption that storage is negligibly inexpensive. Trends for years indicate the ever-re­ducing cost per byte of data. The cost of production hasn’t changed but avail­ability has. Because there was never concern about data supply, companies indulged in all-you-can-eat data mod­els. 
Nobody ever thinks about how the storage on their Gmail account per­petually grows. Nobody worries about how many photos they can upload to Facebook — click upload and go. Not just one copy of each photo exists on Facebook’s server, approximately seven do, each optimized for a different purpose. Services like Spotify offset the cost of maintaining 16 million instantly streamable songs with lucrative licens­ing deals. We live in a world where over 50 hours of video are uploaded to YouTube every minute — and then YouTube will store up to five different versions of each video on their servers. Without need to be efficient with data, the system has become exceptionally bloated and heavy-footed. 
In the coming months, the giant Internet companies will be forced to create teams of programmers with the goal of optimizing their systems. It’s a seemingly insurmountable challenge. How does one reconcile doubling data usage with static quantities of storage? It’s a problem with an answer long overdue. Analysts deem it unfortunate that these teams will be taken away from product and service development, but the total effect of an efficient web is monumental. 
HDDs remain the slowest compo­nent within computers today. There is a growing trend towards Solid-State Drives (SSDs) that step away from the slow magnetic disks used in HDDs and replace them with solid-state memory. SSDs are stable, smaller, significantly faster and very expensive. SSD produc­tion has been left unscathed by the flooding. 
As the HDD deficit grows, the cost per gigabyte is likely to double. When com­paring old technology with new tech­nology at an equal price-point, the deci­sion is much easier to make. Perhaps it’s time to replace the 50-year old HDD industry itself. Crushing constraints and limited resources are known to produce states of rapid invention. There is promise for a better web amidst the murky water. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

A grip that was never tight 
I feel, as a woman on campus, that the “Bro Code” does in fact linger through the musky halls of our brother dorms. While the boy you “talk” to may have a girlfriend, it is the responsibility of his “bros” to not say a word. And while most girls see this as a problem, I honestly don’t see it as anything serious ... any more. 
Don’t get me wrong, there are a number of young men at this University who strongly stick to the “Bro Code.” However, at the University of Notre Dame, we are seen as a step higher than your normal state school student. While we have our “Bro Codes,” we also have moral codes which prevent boys from allowing bad things happen to innocent and sometimes sloppily drunk girls. There is no way you can convince me that there is not one brave soul who doesn’t mind saying, “bro, chill.” And it is these young men who the women and educators on this campus need to recognize and discuss, not the ones who put bros before hoes or the ones who will sit in silence and watch their friend take advantage of a young woman and think nothing of it. 
While people argue about how the “Bro Code” should be interpreted, they need to realize — on this campus at least — the “Bro Code” is not always widely practiced. Instead there is a different code, one that allows the young men of our University to share a bond like no other, but be morally responsible when the time comes. And it is that code that has a tighter grip on this campus that any “Bro Code” ever will. 
As for the “Bro Code” — guys, just give it a rest. You can still be a good friend and do the right thing. People remember the men that stand up for what’s right. Nobody remembers the bystander. 
Zuri Eshun 
sophomore Pasquerilla East Nov. 9 
Fanny packs 

Dear Notre Dame Style Spotter, 
What in the world are you thinking? Mr. James Denue should be given a scold­ing for wearing a fanny pack in public, not a public acceptance letter of approval. The only thing that neon-green fanny pack is good for is illuminating his way through the dark nights in South Bend. Are you trying to get Notre Dame ranked as the least stylish college campus? 
Take a big picture approach to this: think about the male psyche. Men are notorious for wearing whatever they see first in their closet (that’s probably why James wore that fanny pack, it’s neon-green! How can you not see it?). However, men have learned through the years that chest-high khakis, short-shorts, and knee-high socks are no longer acceptable attire. I fear this picture proclaiming the comeback of the fanny pack will lead to an epidemic of fanny packs on cam­pus. Then where do we draw the line? Will we let socks with sandals come back? I certainly hope not. 
But, let’s end on a positive note. At least he was wearing it at Stepan, where no one was within five miles of seeing it. 
Sean Fitzgerald 
sophomore Dillon Hall Nov. 9 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, November 10, 2011 

By LAUREN CHIVAL 
Scene Writer 
“I’ll think about it.” 

That was always a yes in my mother’s book. So there we were, sitting on the floor against bookshelves, waiting in line for midnight to come. Barnes and Noble was packed. I had taken a copy of the fourth book from a display somewhere and was rereading it as we waited, and finally that all-consuming excitement started to take over me again. 
We eventually got it, and I read it as we walked out of the store. I read it in the car on the way home. I got into my mom’s big bed with her and continued reading even though it was late and we had a flight to catch in the morning. She didn’t even bother trying to tell me not to. I read for as long as I could, until my eyes glazed over and couldn’t take in any more words. But my mind woke me up only a few hours later at five, and I sat on the floor leaning against the bed as my mom slept until I finished. 
Well, until I almost finished. Something stopped me on page 806. 
“There’s nothing you can do, Harry … nothing … he’s gone.” 
Just like that, Sirius was gone. My world outside of Harry Potter was falling away around me, and in an instant, my escape betrayed me and took something else from me, too. 
The characters from Rowling’s world had been with me since I was seven years old. Sirius had not joined them until the third book, but maybe because he had become such a life raft in Harry’s loneliness, he was the character I grew most attached to. 
I cried like I hadn’t yet cried for the friends I was leaving and the painful change that I knew was ahead. Those friends had been mine for just a year. But to lose Sirius — just as isolation was about to engulf me again — was too much for me 
By COURTNEY COX 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Fr. Robert Barron, respected theo­logian, speaker and creator of Word on Fire, is visiting Notre Dame today to screen selected scenes from his 10-part documentary “The Catholicism Project.” 
He is the Francis Cardinal George Pro­fessor of Faith and Culture at Mundelein Seminary outside of Chicago. His non­profit organization Word on Fire uses various forms of media to spread the Catholic faith. 
His YouTube channel is a widely viewed source for Catholic interpretations of pop-culture including films like “No Country for Old Men,” “The Ides of March” and “The Departed.” 
His new documentary series takes au­diences through Catholicism across the globe in a vivid and eye-catching fashion. Fr. Barron and his crew visited various holy spaces for Catholics from Philadel­phia to India and were able to tell the story of Catholicism in an engaging and beautiful way. 
The screening for the film is being hosted by the College of Engineering and the College of Science, said Professor Pe­ter Kilpatrick, the McCloskey Dean of En­gineering. 
“I was familiar with the Catholicism Project, as I had seen the trailer videos,” he said. “I believed that Fr. Barron had done something singular here in terms of presenting the beauty, unity and logic for the Catholic faith.” 
The trailer Kilpatrick speaks of is in­deed a sweeping advertisement encapsu­lating some of the Church’s most beau­tiful spaces and speaking to the unique history of Catholicism. 
In it Fr. Barron said, “The Catholic story is being told but being told by the wrong people in the wrong way.” 
His documentary series is a response to this. 
“We need to tell our own story, we need to get the message out, so as to draw peo­ple in,” Fr. Barron said in the trailer. 
Kilpatrick also explained why this 
to bear. 
My mother woke to my bawling, com­pletely alarmed and unprepared for the fact that her act of selflessly waiting with me in a crowded bookstore into the wee hours of the morning had backfired. I could see the wheels turning in her head — she had been hoping to deter tears, not cause more of them. 
“Lauren, honey, it’s … just a book … it’s not real.” 
All I could do was cry harder. She didn’t understand, and at the time, I didn’t either. I knew her words to be true, but I also knew my little 12-year-old heart felt bro­ken. 
Sirius Black was not real. He was a fig­ment of Rowling’s imagination that then be­came a figment of mine. But my childhood had become fragmented, devoid of lasting relationships. Those figments had become people to me — real influential forces that held truths and comfort when I needed them. Harry grappled with what he would do without Sirius, and so did I. 
In the end, the greatest trick Rowling pulled out of her hat was not creating char­acters so meaningful their fictional deaths sent readers into mourning. It was what came after that. She taught Harry — and through Harry, us — how to deal with such grief. In the face of loss and change, Harry and I were fearful and angry. We lashed out. She forced us to move on. What choice did we have? Life moves on no matter what we do. 
But Harry could not just move forward. He had to move forward with strength and maturity. And perhaps the only thing that could have helped me through an­other move more than Sirius’ presence was Sirius’ death. 
To read the first part of this story, go to ndsmcobserver.com. Contact Lauren Chival at lchival@nd.edu 
event is a good fit for the Engineering College.
 “I think it relates to Engineering be­cause he has taken a very ratio-like ap­proach to explicating the Faith,” he says, “something that we are called to by St Peter who said, ‘Always be ready to give a reason for the faith that is within you.’ Engineering is very much based on rea­son. 
“I also have a strong personal interest in the role of beauty in discovery in sci­ence. So I thought this was a good project and a good speaker to expose the Colleg­es of Science and Engineering to.” 
The project is meant to highlight the Catholic heritage and draw new believers into the faith. 
“I hope that the students will get a strong sense of the compelling rationale for both the priority of Christ and of Ca­tholicism,” Kilpatrick said. “I hope they will be captivated by the beauty of the faith and so much of what surrounds it.” 
Throughout the screening Fr. Barron will be present to speak to students about the role of evangelization in the Catholic faith as well as introducing the series. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

On Campus 
What: “The Catholicism Project” Screening Where: 105 Jordan When: Thursday, Nov. 10 at 3:30 p.m. More information: www.wordonfire.org 


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
‘The Catholicism Project’ Room 105, Jordan Hall of  Science 
3:30 p.m. Free 

The Colleges of Engineering and Science present this unique 10-episode-long documentary about the Catholic faith, following Fr. Barron, as he travels around the world exploring the Catholic heritage as well as what Catholics today believe and why. 
Chorale Concert Leighton Concert Hall 8 p.m. $3 for students 
After traveling to Rome last May to sing for the Pope and the Cardinals, they are back to pres­ent their Fall concert. Their rep­ertoire is vast, featuring music from the Renaissance to now, highlighting classic choral mu­sic. The performance is one hour with no intermission. 

Waiting for Godot Washington Hall Lab Theater 
4:30 p.m. $3 for students 
This weekend, Student Players presents Samuel Beckett’s clas­sic absurdist play about endless waiting. You may have read it in school, but head to Washington Hall’s Lab Theater this weekend to see it live. “Waiting for Godot” will also be presented Thursday and Friday at 7:30 p.m. 
Karen Buranskas’ Cello Recital Walter R. Beardsley 20th and 21st Century Gallery 2 p.m. Free 
Associate professor of music Karen Buranskas presents cello suites by Max Eger, Ernest Bloch and Benjamin Britten. She will play works by each of these 20th­century composers that draw on the work of Johann Sebastian Bach. 


By ROSS FINNEY 
Scene Writer 

Steve Shiffman and the Land of No have a gimmick. 
Rock ‘n’ roll gimmicks are usually a mixed bag, superficially interesting but often unrewarding. Most of the time they’re a pretty good indicator that a group has spent more time thinking about how to sell its songs than they have on the songs themselves. 
But sometimes behind the gimmick, behind the pretense, lies some kind of talent. After all, the Beach Boys only sang surf songs at first, David Bowie dressed up as an alien, and Radiohead let people pick how much to pay for mu­sic. 
All gimmicks. They just had the tunes to back it up. 
So learning that Shiffman and compa­ny were releasing a new three-song EP every three months for a year conclud­ing with a full-length album, there was some reason to be skeptical. The idea is to write the album as you go, sell the al­bum as you go and then resell it all to­gether, kind of like a serially-published novel. 
Somebody should have told them no­body buys albums, let alone EPs any­more but luckily Shiffman and the Land of No have the tunes to make it worth the attempt. 
The New York based group released the second EP in the series, “Nemegt Uul,” named for a mountain range in Mongolia with little context as to the reason. Name issues aside, the EP packs a punch. It fol­lows the first EP release “Death & Love,” a solid effort that’s worth checking out. That record earned the group some buzz outside of Brooklyn, and this latest re­lease continues the band’s earnest and endearing vein of rock. 
The press kit states the band sounds somewhat in the vein of Big Star or the Velvet Underground.  They do have a fa­miliar and grounded style of music but the more obvious influence however is Pavement. 
Rooted in a kind of classic indie rock songwriting — the kind often thought of as too conventional by many of today’s indie groups — Shiffman and company deliver riffs, hooks and a sound that is both modern in its lyrical sensibilities and straight out of 1995 in its lo-fi guitar driven vibe.  
Critics will call them derivative, but really they’re making a certain sound new again. And the indie genre could use a new Pavement. 

The opener on “Nemegt Uul,” “All Part of His Plan” is a bizarre sort of love song. While the singer warns a girl about a manipulative suitor, the lyrics betray a concern that just barely breaches affec­tion. Lyrical ambiguity notwithstanding, the chorus’ guitar riff will stay in your head for days. And the guitar solo rocks pretty hard. 
“Never Know What to Say” is a clas­sic three-chord piece of rock and roll. Once you grant Shiffman the conceit he’ll sing an entire three-minute song about not knowing what to say, the track is pop perfection, with driving verses and a catchy sing-along chorus that all us who’ve been at a loss for words can get behind. 
Closing out the EP is “It’s OK,” perhaps the strongest song here. The go-with­the-flow lyrics are the perfect accompa­niment to Land of No’s classic rock riff­ing. 
It opens like some sort of Strokes B-Side and is sung like a Grandaddy track, highlighting the interaction of the group with their classic indie influences, and that it turns out so well is testament to the group’s musical chops and Shiff­man’s on the mark writing. 
With just three songs, the EP runs on the short side but none of the tracks is wasted and it definitely leaves you want­ing more. 
So in a way the gimmick works. “Nemegt Uul” plays surprisingly well and is testament to why it’s a good idea to give some gimmicks a chance. 
Contact Ross Finney at  trfinney@nd.edu 

Steve Shiffman and the Land of No “Nemegt Uul” 
Recommended Tracks: “All Part of His Plan,” “Never Know What to Say,” “It’s OK” If You Like: The Strokes, Pavement 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClASSiFiEDS Thursday, November 10, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

It’s Harbaugh time 
Cue the lights and the dra­matic Monday Night Football music. Cue the football at Candlestick Park in January. Cue the red and gold in the playoffs. 
Playoffs? Yep, I want to talk about playoffs, and it’s been almost a decade since the San Fran­cisco 49ers reached them. The fran-Chris Masoud chise’s last postseason Assistant victory Managing  Editor ranks as one of the greatest playoff comebacks of all time, a 24-point come-from-behind win over the New York Giants in the 2002 NFC Wildcard game. 

Since then, the once-great franchise has fallen into me­diocrity and disappointment. Joe Montana and Steve Young were succeeded by Tim Rattay and Ken Dorsey. Management drafted Alex Smith as the No. 1 overall pick instead of Aaron Rodgers in 2005, a move fans have yet to come to terms with. 
The irreplaceable Bill Walsh, the innovator of the West Coast offense, and Steve Mariucci were followed by Dennis Erick­son and Mike Nolan. The GOAT, Jerry Rice, will also never be replaced, but no one has even come close to filling the gap at wide receiver 
since Terrell 

The NFC West is 
Owens left for 

very much a flea-
Philadelphia. 

infested village, and 
But at 7-1, 

it’s been almost 10 
the 49ers own 

years since the 49ers 
the second-best 

record in the played in front of league behind a playoff crowd at only undefeated Candlestick —  but Green Bay and it’s where we belong. 
compete in pos­sibly the worst division the league has ever seen. A 25-19 win over the Detroit Lions on Oct. 16 was our coming-out party. While com­pletely blown out of proportion, the subsequent media-labeled “handshake-gate” (do we have to add “-gate” to anything remotely controversial to catch someone’s attention?”) gave the team the national spotlight it has been missing since it cap­tured its fifth Super Bowl title in 1994. 
More importantly, it revealed an unmistakable culture shift that has gripped hold of the locker room, and it all starts with the head coach, Jim Harbaugh. 
Yes, he’s arrogant, loud and probably still wishes he could suit up and take the field. But he also likes to run up the score against USC, has an NFL pedigree and sure knows how to coach, taking Andrew Luck and a Stanford program mired in mediocrity to the top of the Pac-12 and near the top of NCAA football. 
While less physically gifted than Luck, Smith has gone 
through six different offen­
sive coordinators in as many 
years. A former quarterback 
himself, Harbaugh finally re­
sembles the mental stability 
Smith needs to be successful 
— that, and a healthy Frank Gore, Vernon Davis, Mi­chael Crabtree and Braylon 
Edwards. 
Four-time Pro Bowl middle linebacker Patrick Willis an­chors a stifling defense that is tops in the NFC. David Akers has found new life by the Bay, and Ted Ginn, Jr. is always a threat to run back a punt (he’s already done it twice in one game). 
One of my favorite scenes in “Gladiator” is of Proximo talk­ing in private with Maximus in his chambers after the General dismantles a set of provincial gladiators prior to their departure for Rome. 
Proximo: “After five years of scratching around in flea-infested villages, we’re finally 
going back to where we belong 
— the Coliseum.” 
The NFC West is very much a flea-infested village, and it’s been almost 10 years since the 49ers played in front of a playoff crowd at Candle­stick — but it’s where we belong. 
So I’m drink­ing the Harbaugh Kool-Aid, as I will be while fighting the tryptophan when the 49ers take on the Ravens in the Harbaugh Bowl 
on Thanksgiving. While our following in northern Indiana is small, look for the 49er faithful in our puffy red and gold this winter. 
“Who’s got it better than us? 
— Nobody.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Haynesworth lands in Tampa Bay 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Albert Haynesworth didn’t stay un­employed long. 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers claimed the 350-pound de­fensive lineman off waivers Wednesday, one day after the two-time Pro Bowl selec­tion was released by the New England Patriots. 
General manager Mark Dominik made the announce­ment, saying the Bucs more than likely would not have been interested in giving Haynesworth an opportunity to revive his career if Tampa Bay (4-4) had not lost second-year pro Gerald McCoy for the season this week because of a torn right biceps. 
“I would say candidly that if Gerald wasn’t hurt right now, I probably wouldn’t do this move. But because of the situation we’re in, I felt Albert Haynesworth has the best ability of any defensive tackle out there. For us and for me, it made sense as an organization to bring him on board,” Dominik said. 
Haynesworth, who has 30½ career sacks, emerged as one of the top tackles in the NFL during seven seasons with the Tennessee Titans. But he’s been a huge disappoint­ment since signing a seven-year, $100 million free-agent contract with Washington in 2009, clashing repeatedly with coach Mike Shanahan during two rocky seasons with the Redskins and con­tinuing to struggle after join­ing New England in a trade. 
In six games with the Patri­ots, he had three tackles and no sacks. His last play was early in the third quarter of Sunday’s 24­20 loss to the Giants when Brandon Ja­cobs scored on a 10-yard ington and New England. 

“I think the thing I’m going to bank on a little bit here is our defense and what we ask (his position) to do,” Dominik said. “Over the last couple of seasons, he’s been in more of a 3-4 defense and two-gapping. I think he’s always felt like he’s a one-gap penetrator. The timing was what it was, and it made sense to us to put the claim in.” 
McCoy, the third overall pick in the 2010 draft, was injured 
during last Sunday’s loss to New Or­leans. He was placed on in­jured reserve Monday, and the player the Bucs ini­tially signed to replace him — John McCargo — was released Wednesday to free up a roster spot for Haynes-worth. 
Pressed about his ex-to him already,” the general manager said. “As you would hope, he’s excited and fired up. He asked, how soon can we get him a flight? He said he wants to get in tonight, so he can go to practice tomorrow. Those were his words. That’s very encouraging.” 
Dominik said he did not speak with anyone from the Patriots before putting in a claim for Haynesworth. How­ever, the GM did watch film of the 134 snaps the tackle has played this season. 
Although Haynesworth left New England with unimpres­sive numbers, Dominik said he found more production than showed up on the stat sheet. 
By the GM’s count, Haynes-worth had seven quarterback pressures, was disruptive on about 15 plays and was in­volved in eight tackles. 
“I watched every game twice. I watched how he played, his effort, his motor, what they asked him to do, what he ac­tually did do,” Dominik said, adding that what he saw on tape was a player that can be “strong, powerful, dominating, disruptive and can overpower an opponent.” 
“When I see him hit a gap or shoot a gap, he still can play football,” Dominik said. “He’s not one of these older players that really can’t play anymore. I just want him to play our way.” 
run. 
Dominik ’s interest in Haynesworth is not new. 
The Bucs also were in discussions with him the night Haynes-worth signed his big deal with the Red­skins. Despite the tackle’s 

“I would say candidly that if Gerald wasn’t hurt right now, I probably wouldn’t do this move.” 
Mark Dominik Buccaneers general manager 
struggles since then, the GM thinks the 10th-year pro can be an effective player again because Tampa Bay runs a 4-3 defense instead of the 3-4 alignments Haynesworth was asked to play in Wash­pectations for Haynesworth, Dominik conceded that the tackle would be evaluated “week to week” and could find himself without a team again if he does not perform. 
“I have had a chance to talk 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Today, I asked my iPod if I was dinosaur when I say “Rawr,” and Today, my art teacher threatened Today I realized that I always speak 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
going to prom with someone. It’s plays dead when I say “Avada to eat the next student who talked loudly to myself whenever I’m answer? “Ridin’ Solo” by Jason Kedavra.’ Time well spent. MLIA in his class.  alone at home. I then told myself Derulo. MLIA MLIA. to be quiet. 
House for rent in beautiful Wooded UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t MLIA Estates.  go it alone. Notre Dame has many Today I was outside a local 
resources in place to assist you. Today, I accidently recorded smoothie store, and I saw a Today in math my friend suddenly 3 Br, 2 Ba, finished basement, If you or someone you love needs myself for 6 hours. At one point I garbage truck with a giant poster turned to me and asked quite Today got a fortune that said, fenced yard, laundry. $1100/mo. confidential support or assistance, was licking myself subconciously, on it saying “yo ho, yo ho, a seriously, “Even the greatest of whales Walk to campus. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 while I was asleep. MLIA recycler’s life for me!” with pirates  ‘Whats the fancy name for is helpless in the middle of the Phone: or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more and fish on it. I respect these plussing?’. desert.” 
information, visit ND’s website at: workers a whole lot more now. She meant addition. Wisest fotune cookie ever? I think  574-514-6260 Today I decided to teach my dog MLIA HerLIA. so. MLIA http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu some tricks. He now acts like a 
Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Penn State trustees fire Paterno, university president 
Associated Press of trustees, said at a press conference. 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — The trustees said school Penn State President Graham Provost and Executive Vice Spanier, a family sociologist President Rodney Erickson and therapist who led the will be the interim president mammoth university system while the football team’s de­for 16 years, saw his tenure fensive coordinator, Tom as one of the nation’s longest-Bradley, will serve as interim serving college presidents coach. end Wednesday because of a Sandusky, considered Pa-campus child sex abuse scan-terno’s likely successor be­dal. fore he retired in 1999, was 
Spanier, among the highest-charged last week with mo-paid college presidents in the lesting eight boys over a 15­country, had come under fire year period. He has denied over the past several days for the charges. his handling of allegations A grand jury report said at that a Penn State assistant least two of the assaults were football coach, Jerry San-witnessed on campus — and dusky, had sexually abused one of those was reported to at least eight boys over more Spanier. But the university than a decade. He was fired president did not tell author-Wednesday night for failing ities about the reported at-to tell authorities about an tack on a young boy, which a allegation of child molesta-football team graduate assis­tion in a campus locker room tant claimed to have seen in shower. 2002. The graduate student’s 
The sex abuse scandal also accusation was passed up the claimed long-serving head chain of command to Span-coach Joe Paterno, who had ier, but he said the serious-announced Wednesday that ness of the encounter was not this would be his last season conveyed to him. in Happy Valley but wasn’t The grand jury report said given the chance to continue Spanier described the epi­coaching, and two other top sode as “Jerry Sandusky in administrators, who stepped the football building locker down earlier this week after area in the shower ... with a being charged with perjury younger child and they were in the case. horsing around in the show-
The ousters of Spanier and er.” Paterno were announced Spanier said in a statement Wednesday night by univer-Wednesday night that he was sity trustees. “stunned and outraged to that any child may have been tinuing. State Attorney Gen-Pennsylvania. He heads the 
“It is in the best interests of learn that any predatory act hurt and have deep convic-eral Linda Kelly said Monday Bowl Championship Series the university that a change might have occurred in a uni-tions about the need to pro-that Paterno is not a target presidential oversight com-in leadership (must be made) versity facility” and would tect children and youth,” he of the inquiry into how the mittee, hosts a sports talk to deal with the difficult is-have reported a crime if he’d said. “My heartfelt sympa-school handled the matter, show on the Big Ten’s televi­sues that we are facing,” suspected one had been com-thies go out to all those who but she refused to say the sion network and previously John P. Surma, vice chair-mitted. may have been victimized.” same for Spanier. led the Association of Public man of the university’s board “I am heartbroken to think The investigation is con-State police Commissioner and Land-grant Universities. 
Frank Noonan earlier this Penn State is a state-related week criticized school of-institution that receives some ficials’ handling of the al-public funding but is not un­legations, saying “a football der direct state control. coach or a university presi-Spanier is trained as a dent or the guy sweeping the family sociologist, demogra­building” had a moral re-pher and marriage and fam­sponsibility to call police if ily therapist. He first served they suspected a child was in Happy Valley from 1973 to being sexually abused. He 1982 as a member of the fac­also said Penn State had “a ulty and in three administra­culture that did nothing to tive positions in the College stop it or prevent it from hap-of Health and Human Devel­pening to others.” opment. 
Calls for Spanier’s ouster He later went on to serve as by newspapers, online groups chancellor of the University and petitions mushroomed in of Nebraska-Lincoln, provost recent days, many supported and vice president for aca­by upset and disillusioned demic affairs at Oregon State alumni. University and vice provost 
The 63-year-old Spanier for undergraduate studies at had led Penn State since the State University of New 1995, and his contract was York at Stony Brook. to run through 2015. The He received bachelor’s and university system, headquar-master’s degrees from Iowa tered in State College, in-State University, followed by cludes 96,000 students on 24 a doctorate in sociology from campuses and has an annual Northwestern University. budget of about $4.3 billion. He said Wednesday it had 
Spanier earned more than been his “great privilege and $800,500 in annual base pay, honor” to serve Penn State deferred compensation and for more than 25 years, in-retirement contributions, cluding the past 16 as presi­according to The Chronicle dent. of Higher Education. He told “I will continue to serve the The Associated Press earlier university in every way pos­this year that he considered sible and celebrate the great-his salary, which was set by ness of Penn State,” he said. trustees, to be “very gener-Spanier and his wife, an ous” and that it “feels pecu-English professor at the uni-liar for someone who grew up versity, have two children, in a poor family.” both Penn State graduates. 
Spanier has donated more Penn State student body than $1 million to the univer-President T.J. Bard, who said sity. He also has overseen $3 he has worked closely with billion in philanthropic con-Spanier over the past two tributions to Penn State dur-years, called the president “a ing his tenure, according to phenomenal leader for this his biography. university.” 
Spanier is well known “That’s not something that in academics and athlet-should be overlooked very ics, both inside and outside quickly,” he said. 



page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, November 10, 2011 
MLB 

Alomar interviews for Red Sox manager job 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Ben Chering­ton was in his first year in a major league front office — as an advance scout for the Cleveland Indians — when he came across Sandy Alo­mar Jr. 
“He didn’t know who I was, in ‘98 with Cleveland,” said Cherington, who is now the Red Sox general manager and leading the search for a new manager in Boston. “But I saw him in the clubhouse 
— I was in the clubhouse all the time — and I saw the leader he was back then, the respect he had in that club­house. I’ve been sort of fol­lowing him since then.” 
It was that respect that led Cherington to add Alomar to the short list of candidates interviewing to replace Terry Francona as the Red Sox manager. Brewers hit­ting coach Dale Sveum and Phillies bench coach Pete Mackanin have already been in to discuss the job; former Pirates and White Sox man­ager Gene Lamont and Blue Jays first base coach Torey Lovullo are scheduled to come in later this week. 
Cherington said he hasn’t ruled out the possibility of additional candidates. 
Alomar, who spent parts of 20 seasons catching in the majors — most notably as the 1990 AL Rookie of the Year and a six-time All-Star for the Indians — has been the first base coach in Cleveland for the past two seasons. He is the only candidate the Red Sox have acknowledged who has no managerial experi­ence. 
“His name kept coming up as a guy with a ton of respect in baseball,” Cherington said. “We felt that, in spite of the lack of managerial expe­rience, it was worth getting to know him better. ... He’s going to be a major league manager. Whether that’s in 2012 or sometime after that, I’m very confident to say that he’ll be a big league manag­er sometime.” 
The Red Sox parted ways with Francona this fall after the team’s unprecedented September collapse, the re­sult of a 7-20 record down the stretch that left them one game behind the Tampa Bay Rays in the AL wild­card race. After allegations of players fattening up on fried chicken and beer dur­ing games, each managerial candidate has been grilled by reporters on his approach to clubhouse discipline. 
“The goal for a manager is to let your players manage themselves. In order to do that, you have to let the guys play,” he said. “I am a guy that lets the players play the game. You have some rules, but you respect the players (and) they respect you back.” 
The 45-year-old Alomar also played for the Padres, White Sox, Rockies, Rangers, Dodgers and Mets. He had a lifetime average of .273 with 112 homers and 588 RBIs. 
He said he has played for nine managers, all of whom reached the postseason in their careers; six of them reached the World Series, and two of them won it. His father, Sandy Alomar Sr., spent 15 seasons in the ma­jors as a second baseman, and his brother, Roberto, is in the Hall of Fame. 
So it’s no surprise that when asked to describe his managerial style, he said, “I like the family atmosphere.” 
“We are a family. We bond­ed — coaches, players,” he said. “That’s the way I would handle it.” 
NBA 

Talks continue as deadline passes 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — As Commis­sioner David Stern’s dead­line passed, the NBA and its players continued nego­tiating Wednesday in an at­tempt to end the lockout. 
The two sides met for more than seven hours to try to hash out a deal to save the season. 
Stern had issued an ulti­matum to players: Accept the league’s latest proposal by 5 p.m. ET Wednesday or it will be replaced with a much harsher one that would drive the sides even farther apart. 
Players said Tuesday they wouldn’t accept the current one as configured and sug­gested another negotiation session. 
The current offer calls for players to receive between 49 percent and 51 percent of basketball-related income, though union officials said it would be impossible to get above 50.2 percent. Players were guaranteed 57 percent of BRI under the previous collective bargain­ing agreement. 
The next proposal would call for a 53-47 revenue split in the owners’ favor, essentially a hard salary cap and salary rollbacks, which the league originally sought but had taken off the table. Both proposals were sent to union executive di­rector Billy Hunter on Sun­day. 
The meeting featuring small groups from both sides was arranged Wednes­day morning. 





Failure to make a deal likely would increase the calls for the union to decer­tify so the players can file a lawsuit against the league in court, a risky and lengthy tactic that likely would doom the 2011-12 season. Union officials have down­played the idea, but players might have no other lever­age once the more severe proposal is put into play. 
Stern and Deputy Com­missioner Adam Silver were joined Wednesday by Spurs owner Peter Holt, the chair­man of the labor relations committee, and lawyers Rick Buchanan and Dan Rube. Besides Hunter and president Derek Fisher, vice presidents Roger Mason Jr. and Maurice Evans, econo­mist Kevin Murphy and at­torney Jeffrey Kessler rep­resented the union. 
Kessler took part just hours after saying he re­gretted telling the Wash­ington Post that owners are treating players like “plan­tation workers” during the ongoing lockout. He said he planned to call Stern and apologize. 
Besides the revenue split, the sides still are divided on elements of the salary cap system, mostly relat­ing to the spending rules for teams that are over the luxury tax level. Players want those teams to remain options for free agents, whereas the league thinks talent would be more even­ly distributed throughout the league if payrolls were more balanced. 
Players indicated after their meeting Tuesday that they would be open to re­ducing their BRI take if owners made some changes on the system issues. Play­ers offered to go to about 51 percent Saturday, with 1 percent going into a fund for retired player benefits. 


Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
Baraka 
continued from page 16 
many novices holding their own in their first trip to the ring. 
In the ring, experience level did not always trump pure skill level and energy, as several less-experienced fighters knocked off older fighters. Junior Kaitlyn Cole earned perhaps the most improbable victory, beating three-time veteran and se­nior captain Kat Rodriguez in a split decision. 
Monday night, however, was not just marked by suc­cess in the boxing ring; it succeeded in drawing many students and generating sub­stantial fundraising for the Holy Cross Missions in Ugan­da, who receive all profits from the bouts. 
“We made a lot in ticket and merchandise sales,” By­rne said. “We had a pretty good turnout, and there was always plenty of activity for the fans to watch, since we had two rings this year.” 
With the first round com­plete, the victorious fight­ers move on to face an even greater challenge. A daunt­ing opponent awaits them, but the boxers also have to fight the enemy of fatigue, as they box for the second time in four nights. 
“I think that some of the challenges for the fighters will be figuring out how to change their training sched­ules to get ready for another fight and how to push them­selves to their utter limits twice in one week,” senior Women’s Boxing Club co-president Jen Coe said. “I think they’ll probably leave the week really tired, but they are really capable and they train so hard that they are definitely in shape to fight multiple times in a week.” 

The 19 bouts taking place Thursday night will serve as the conclusion to the Baraka Bouts tournament, but don’t serve the purpose of ulti­mately conferring a champi­onship to an overall winner. This year the tournament was organized into 20 pods of four fighters, with the two winners in each pod moving on to fight each other. These pods serve an organizational function by working to group fighters by skill level, rath­er than grouping them by weight class as Bengal Bouts does. 
With the tournament orga­nized in that manner, it is no surprise to see Coe mention she expects to see more com­petitive, high-intensity fights in the finals. 
“I expect to see a lot more close calls and split decisions 

ROWING 
Irish to race against tough Big Ten crews 

Thursday night,” Coe said. “I think that there will be tons of overall intensity, energy and excitement in the ring.” 
Byrne echoed similar sen­timents, emphasizing the ex­perience of a first fight earli­er in the week would ratchet up the skill level of many of the boxers. 
“I think that the skill level will be a lot better because all the nerves from getting in the ring were left out on Monday, so now girls can be a little bit more focused and more tech­nical,” Byrne said. “It should be an exciting round, since there will be several captain showdowns as well as many novices and veterans partici­pating in the round.” 
The final round of Baraka Bouts starts at 6 p.m. Thurs­day at the JACC. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at                  bhartnet@nd.edu 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will challenge three daunting Big Ten crews Saturday when they race Ohio State, Michi­gan State and Indiana in the Scio­to Scrimmage in Columbus, Ohio. 
“I would expect very competi­tive [races],” Irish coach Martin Stone said. “Ohio State and Michi­gan State were both at the NCAAs last year, and Indiana had a good crew last year, and I think they’re stronger, so I think it’ll be very competitive.” 
Notre Dame has not raced since Oct. 23 when the Irish four boat took fifth place in the Head of the Charles Regatta, the second best finish among collegiate crews. The team was supposed to travel to Indianapolis for a scrimmage against Indiana on Sunday, but conditions on the water forced the schools to cancel the meet. 
“The weather was too bad and the water was too rough to race in,” Stone said. 
Although the quality of compe­tition is formidable, the regatta is technically a scrimmage, which allows the coaching staff to give its athletes more instruction. 
“It’s a controlled scrimmage, so we’ll go and talk to our athletes between races and go over stuff between pieces,” Stone said, “so it should be a great learning experi­ence for us.” 
Although the crews for each boat have not yet been named, Notre Dame will take five eight boats, meaning many members of the large rowing roster will get a taste of competition. 
Stone said he would like to see how his crews respond when they are racing opponents other than their teammates. 
“We haven’t raced very much,” Stone said. “We’ve had two races and we strive to get better all the time, so that’s what we’d like, par­ticularly in race situations.” 
None of the four teams have participated in many events this fall. 
The Hoosiers kicked off their fall training season at the Head of the Ohio on Oct. 8 and last com­peted Oct. 30, when their varsity eight crew claimed eighth place at the Princeton Chase, finish­ing ahead of reigning champion Brown. 
The Buckeyes’ only other sched­uled event of the fall was an Oct. 8 exhibition against Michigan in Ann Arbor, Mich., while the Scioto Scrimmage will be the Spartans’ first competition of the fall. 
The Irish will hit the water at the Scioto Scrimmage in Colum­bus, Ohio, this Saturday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at                  vjacobse@nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, November 10, 2011 
strong strokes. Dyer has won a 
Welsh 
race at every meet this year, and 
Gaul 

his times in the 200-freestyle have continued from page 16 been among the top finishes in the 
continued from page 16 

country. with the top teams in the country, Freshman diver Michael Kreft 
the lineup again, playing in just teams in the top 25, so this is a has also placed at numerous 
two games. very important test for us,” Welsh events among strong fields. 
“Sophomore year I got a said. “The Iowa Invitational will be The College Swimming Coaches 
chance, we just kind of had our final exam. It’s where we’ll re-Association of America released 
a tough season overall, and I ally see where we are as a team.” the first rankings of the year 
didn’t think I played as well as I After the meet with the Cardi-Wednesday, and though the Irish 
could have,” Gaul said. “I wasn’t nals, the Irish will not compete received votes, they did not crack 
pleased with how I played sopho­again until early December. Welsh the top 25. Two past Irish oppo­
more year. Junior year we had a said that he’d like to see everyone nents, Purdue and Michigan, ap­
lot of good, talented, hardwork­on the team get a chance to see the peared in the poll at the No. 17 and 
ing freshmen, so I spent my year pool Saturday, as developing expe-No. 1 positions, respectively. 
preparing to get into the lineup, rience on a young team is key for “As we mature, I think that we’ll 
and I didn’t really get a chance, the Irish moving forward. deserve a ranking,” Welsh said. 
but just kind of kept working on “As much as we talk about our “But right now, we’re not ready.” 
it, and tried to keep a good atti­opponents, it’s really just about us Welsh has made it clear that 
tude about the whole thing. And and our team,” Welsh said. “We’re managing the season will be a 
this year I’ve been given a chance in the middle of things, not the end process for the Irish, and a large 
and an opportunity, and I’m just of things, and that doesn’t depend step in that process will play out 
trying to take advantage of it.” at all on what Louisville does.” when the Irish jump into competi-
Gaul has indeed been making The Irish will need a number of tion Saturday in Louisville, Ky., at 
good on his second chance so strong individual performances in 11 a.m. 
far. After registering just three order to compete at Louisville and 
points in his first three Irish gaining the offensive zone, Gaul’s that I’m making progress and will look to stalwarts like sopho-Contact Conor Kelly at                                
seasons, Gaul has four points al-refusal to give up on a puck se-doing things to help us win, but more Frank Dyer to continue their ckelly17@nd.edu 
ready this season. He’s played in cured Notre Dame’s first series I still want to get better and keep 
every game so far, and has been sweep of the year. improving.” 
featured on both the power play “By the time I got into the zone, Gaul’s career path has cer­
freshman Allison Casareto and and shorthanded units. [freshman winger Peter] Schnei-tainly been windier than most 

According to Gaul though, his der had already attacked the net, of those on Notre Dame’s roster, 
first and second in all of the 1-me-
Natorium 
junior Jenny Chiang have placed 

biggest contributions to the team came back around and hit me but there is still a lot of road left continued from page 16 ter and 3-meter diving events in 
don’t often show up in the box with a pass, and I just caught it, to travel. The next stop on that Irish meets so far this season. 
score. shot it and it went in,” Gaul said. road will be against Alaska at burgh in a dual meet after arriv-Both squads have a common 
“I’d say my ability to read plays “I was just happy, because there’s the Compton Family Ice Arena ing on a 6-hour bus ride the day win at Pittsburgh, as the Cardi­
and anticipate certain things is a lot of times where it might not this weekend, but the senior of the meet, Louisville will pose a nals won by a score of 193-102 
my biggest strength,” he said. show up on the scoresheet, so it hopes the ride doesn’t end any-greater challenge. last Friday against the Panthers. 
“Some guys hate blocking shots, was nice to have something like, time soon. Senior Fanny Lilliestrom is one However, Louisville dropped a 
some guys hate penalty killing. ‘Hey, Gaul got the game-winner.’ “I’m excited to get out there of the Cardinals top swimmers, meet to Tennessee and placed 
It’s my favorite part of the game. It was a good feeling.” against Alaska this weekend. earning a victory along with an fourth out of eight squads in the 
Just from the coaches I’ve had And while Gaul had never giv-They’re generally a hardwork-NCAA B-cut time in the 200-yard difficult SMU Classic, which in-
in the past and my parents, not en up on his goal of getting back ing, defensive team. It’s fun to breaststroke in the Cardinals’ loss cluded three of the top 10 ranked 
quitting is kind of my thing. I’m in the regular lineup, the start to play those teams that are known to Tennessee. swimming squads in the country. 
not the fastest guy and I’m not the season has exceeded even his to be gritty,” Gaul said. “I just In addition, Cardinals’ junior The Irish hit the pool against 
the biggest guy, but I’m not going expectations. want to keep helping our team diver Hannah Gadd will present the Cardinals on Saturday at 1 
to give up on a play.” “Keeping a good attitude and have success, and come home a challenge. She earned a victory p.m. Following the meet, Notre 
That resilience allowed Gaul staying positive, I think, is what with some championships, be in the SMU Classic in the 1-meter Dame will not swim in competi­
to make one of the biggest con-put me in a position to do well it CCHA or national. It’s my last diving event against top national tion again until Dec. 2 when it 
tributions of his career Oct. 29 this year,” Gaul said. “I can’t year here, and I want to win as competition, including No. 6 Tex-competes in the three-day Ohio 
at Bowling Green. Tied up 2-2 in really say that this is how I ex-much as I can before I have to as and No. 7 Florida. State Invitational in Columbus. 
the third period, the Irish were pected my senior year to go. I go.” However, Notre Dame’s diving 
looking for a spark to close out was just hoping to get a chance team has proven strong in dual Contact Matt Unger at                       
the weekend. On a play where he to play, and given that chance try Contact Jack Hefferon at                  meets this season. The duo of munger3@nd.edu 
was knocked down twice before to take advantage of it. I’m happy wheffero@nd.edu 



ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

Graduate student forward Tim Abromaitis drives past a Stonehill defender during Notre Dame’s 92-70 victory Nov. 7. 
Digger 
continued from page 16 
and obviously we have west coast cities. 
“But, I just don’t see how we will ever have the opportunity to compete for a BCS national championship without being in a conference. What’s the best con­ference for us? If I’m looking out right now, I’ve got to say the ACC right now for football and basket­ball.” 
Phelps said the ACC could cre­ate a north division and a south division and rotate the basket­ball conference tournaments between Greensboro, N.C. and Madison Square Garden in New York. He added that key rivalries in football could be maintained, as well as the television contract in place since 1991. 
“I would still say we should keep our NBC home contract,” he said. “We can negotiate that. Then play nine games [in the ACC] in football. I’d give them nine. Still play Navy because of tradition, Southern Cal, and ro­tate with Michigan and Michigan State every other year. 
In order to compete nation­ally in recruiting, Phelps said the basketball program needs a new practice facility. He said he was a proponent of building a com­bined basketball and hockey are­na where the Joyce Center park­ing lot is, tearing down the Joyce Center and building a practice facility there. 
“You’d have what Kentucky has, and what a lot of these schools have now,” he said. “It’s all part of the package for men’s and women’s basketball. Kentucky’s [practice facility] cost I think $30 million, one side is men’s and the other side is women’s, but they got it done. It’s used against us in recruiting obviously.” 
Phelps will travel to Bristol, Conn., on Monday to begin ES­PN’s coverage of college basket­ball. 
Contact Andrew owens at                  aowens2@nd.edu 


Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer u toDAy ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 

EXPND JON REPINE 
JUMBLE MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, November 10, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 

Digger Phelps comments on season, conference realignment 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Former Irish coach Digger Phelps discussed the state of the program, Notre Dame’s place in the Big East this season and where the Irish fit in among the ever-changing landscape of col­lege athletics Tuesday in an exclu­sive interview with The Observer. 
Phelps shares the record for wins over No. 1-ranked teams with seven during his 20-year tenure at Notre Dame, a career that included the school’s only Fi­nal Four appearance. 
With only two See Also starters return -Full transcript of the ing in Observer’s sitdown 2011-12, with Digger Phelps Notre Dame ndsmcobserver.com will need to rely on senior forward Tim Abromaitis this season, Phelps said. 
“It’s going to be an interesting year because, as I said to Abro­maitis the other day — I saw him at the end of practice and said, ‘Well, I think I’m going to go on the air and say that what Jimmer Fredette did last year for BYU, I can see Tim Abromaitis do­ing that for Notre Dame, getting 35, 40 [points] in big games, like when Pitt comes in here Dec. 27,’” said Phelps, who now works as an analyst on ESPN. 
Phelps said much of Notre Dame’s success will depend on how well the frontcourt can make up for the loss of Carleton Scott, who declared for the NBA Draft with a year of eligibility remain­ing. Scott went undrafted, was re­cently released by a team in Spain and might play in Iceland. 
“To me the mystery is why Carleton Scott left,” Phelps said. “If Carleton Scott came back, he could have averaged 20 [points] and 10 [rebounds] and been a late first-round draft pick or early sec­ond-round next year, but he made that choice to leave. We will miss him, because he would have been that presence that we needed. So we lost three quality players and it is going to be interesting to see in time how these guys mature.” 
Phelps also said it is time for Notre Dame to drop its indepen­dence in football and join the ACC. 
“I’d love to see us join the ACC,” he said. “We are east of the Mis­sissippi when it comes to fund­raising, alumni clubs, etc., and I include Chicago when I say that. And that’s not going to go away, 
see DIGGER/page 14 
HOCKEY 

Better late than never 
Center Gaul sees more playing time during final season 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
In several senses, senior center Patrick Gaul can be an easy guy to lose track of. He stands just 5’8” when he’s on the ice, but over the last three years he has struggled just to get the chance to be on it. 
“You kind of lose track of it if you’re not on the team, because mostly you only see the games on the weekend, but there’s three forwards and two defenseman ev­ery weekend that don’t play,” Gaul said. “But they do everything, ex­cept play the two games. They’re still practicing just as much as the other guys.” 
After paying his dues and begin­ning to adjust to the college game as a freshman, Gaul was able to crack the lineup and see serious time on the ice in his second year. He admittedly didn’t take full ad­vantage of that chance though, and when Notre Dame’s record-breaking freshman class came in last year Gaul was squeezed out of 
see GAUL/page 14 


MEN’S SWIMMING 
ND to face conference champions 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a convincing victory against Valparaiso, the Irish will travel to Kentucky on Saturday for a meet against No. 16 Louisville, the defending Big East champion. Over the past three years, the Car­dinals (2-1) and the Irish (4-2) have exchanged places atop the Big East tournament podium, with the Irish last taking the title in 2009. 
This competition creates a natu­ral, intense rivalry between the two teams, Irish coach Tim Welsh said. 
“Whenever we race each other, we have either the past or future championships on our minds,” Welsh said. “They’re a very fast team coming off of a great season last year. It’s a pretty natural ri­valry for that reason.” 
Welsh compared his team’s matchup with Louisville to a mid­term exam. 
“We like to compare ourselves 
see WELSH/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish look to rebound on the road 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Following a tough dual meet loss to Purdue last Friday, the Irish will look to bounce back in a road meet at Louisville on Sat­urday at the Ralph Wright Nato­rium. 
The meet marks Notre Dame’s third road meet in a row and the final one of the fall season before the Ohio State Invitational in De­cember. If the Irish can salvage a win, they would finish 2-1 on the road. 
One factor working against the Irish will be a 5-hour bus ride to Louisville on Saturday morning. While the Irish dominated Pitts-
see NATORIUM/page 14 

BARAKA BOUTS 
Boxers to return to JACC for 19 final-round bouts 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
After emerging victori­ous from an intense round of fights Monday, 38 boxers will return to the ring Thursday night to compete in the final round of Baraka Bouts. 
The 19 bouts will serve as the first ever finals for Bara­ka Bouts, which traditionally had been a one-night event. The new tournament format for the bouts debuted Mon­day night and the first round 
— 40 fights spread over two rings in the Joyce Center — was a great success, accord­ing to Women’s Boxing Club co-president senior Erin By­rne. 
“Even with the switch to tournament style, we had a lot of close, definitive bouts that were pretty high-skill level on Monday,” Byrne said. 
Among the boxing high­lights of the night, Byrne said she noticed the promising trend of many second-year fighters rising up to the level battle-tested captains and veteran fighters, as well as 
see BARAKA/page 13 







