
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor reflects on son’s mayoral victory 
English faculty member Joseph Buttigieg discusses son’s political career, youth engagement in politics 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame English profes­sor Joseph Buttigieg, Tuesday’s mayoral election was personal — his son, Pete, was the winner. 
Even though he had shown an interest in politics in the past, Butti­gieg said he never expected his son would run for office. 
“I know Peter has been inter­ested in politics for a long time,” he said. “At home we always discussed government affairs, but never in that way.” 
Buttigieg said his son became involved with Harvard’s Institute of Politics as an undergraduate at the university and worked on politi­cal campaigns, including U.S. Sen. John Kerry’s bid for the presidency in 2004. 
“I’m sure he learned about the mechanisms of electorate politics through that,” Buttigieg said. 
After current mayor Stephen Luecke announced he would not seek reelection, several people sug­gested Pete consider running, But­tigieg said. 
“It’s been a slow process,” he said. “I’m very pleased because he’s doing something he genuinely likes.” 
Buttigieg said he was pleased with the number of young people involved in his son’s campaign and 


see BUTTIGIEG/page 6 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Newly elected South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg delivers a speech to his supporters Tuesday night. The mayor is the son of Notre Dame professor Joseph Buttigieg. 


Woo delivers latest Last Lecture installment 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Dean Carolyn Woo’s contribution to the Last Lecture Series — which asks faculty members to prepare a lecture as if it were their last — was especially timely Thursday night, as Woo enters the final months of her fourteen year career at the helm of the Mendoza College of Business. Woo will leave at the end of the Fall Semester to take over as CEO of Catholic Charities. 
As Woo faces major change and uncertainty in her own life, she advised audience members to face adversity with faith, not to fear hardship or responsibility and not to underestimate the value of edu­cation. 
“I choose to say that because I think, right now, the economic environment worries everyone,” Woo said. “When I was growing up, I was in a pretty comfortable family, except that my father had a few issues. So even when I was younger, I had a sense of not hav­ing security. I also decided that my way of responding to that was to go to school.” 
Challenges followed Woo to Pur­due University, where she began her undergraduate education with only enough money for one year’s expenses. Woo said she was fortu­nate to receive a scholarship, which was both a blessing and a reminder to appreciate her education. 
“I was able to be given a schol­arship that covered the rest of my years,” Woo said. “As a result, I never took any opportunities for granted. When you’re in the middle of [adversity], it’s very difficult, but work your way into that adversity and work your way out of the ad­versity and don’t be afraid of re­sponsibility. I think adversity really shapes us and it’s a gift in its own ways.” 


Always maintain faith, Woo said. 
“You may feel like you’re all alone, but you really are not,” she said. “I think God is always with 
us. At Purdue, I started going to daily Mass, and it was an incredible 


see WOO/page 4 


Veteran faculty member recalls Vietnam era 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
As the United States celebrates 
Ve tera ns Day today, Peace Stud­ies professor and 1968 alumnus Da­vid Cortright said he will remember 


his unique experience as a Vietnam-era soldier actively involved in the anti-war movement. 
“I became strongly opposed to the war effort while I was in the Army,” Cortright said. “I came to believe the Vietnam War was un­just, which brought me to a crisis of conscience.” 
While Cortright was never de­ployed to Vietnam and instead remained stationed in the United States from 1968-1971, he was far from inactive during the war. 
“I joined the underground anti­war movement while inside the Army, which was called the GI Peace Movement,” Cortright said. “I organized soldiers, as there was an active opposition to the war even among those inside the mili­tary.” 
Cortright said the movement gave him a sense of purpose while he served. 
“I found my involvement in the GI Peace Movement to be person­ally liberating and fulfilling,” Cor­tright said. “It gave me a sense that I was doing something that was necessary and I felt like I was serving my country more nobly by speaking out against an unjust war, rather than remaining silent about something that I felt was wrong.” 
Cortright said his experience in the Army during the war inspired him to study public policy. 
“Once I began to speak out against the war and learned more about the nature of militarism and the need to work for peace, I decided to dedicate my life to it,” he said. 
He completed his doctoral stud­ies in 1975 at the Union Institute in residence at the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, D.C., where he received a Ph.D. in His­tory. 
“My dissertation was on the U.S. military during the Vietnam War, especially on the anti-war senti­ment within the military in those days,” Cortright said. 
Cortright returned to his alma mater in 1989 as a professor at the 


see CORTRIGHT/page 6 
Fr. Jenkins surprises Philbin 
Observer Staff Report 

As 1953 alumnus Regis Philbin prepares to retire from his popular morning show, two Notre Dame faces sur­prised him on “Live with Re­gis and Kelly” Thursday 

morning. 

University President Fr. John Jenkins and former Irish coach Lou Holtz ap­peared on the talk show to 

congratu­late Phil-bin on his long career in televi­sion. 
Holtz pra ised Philbi n for the enter­tainment 
and joy he has brought his viewers over the years with co-host Kelly Ripa. 
“You two have just made a great team, and you’ve had a positive impact on so many 
see PHILBIN/page 6 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Catholics urged to uphold faith page 3 u Viewpont page 8 u Cupcakes on cupcakes page 11 u Men’s basketball opens season page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, November 11, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THE SNOW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports John Cameron Eric Prister Adam Llorens Matthew DeFranks Bridget Feeney Brian Hartnett Graphics Scene Marina Kozak Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Megan Kozak  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 47 LOW 36 


Rachel Talley  Christina Dollar  Mary Frances  Eddie Flood  John Ning  Jake Frego  
Brennan  
junior  junior  junior  feshman  sophomore  sophomore  
Lyons  Ryan  Ryan  Morrissey  Morrissey  Fisher  
“Half excited,  “I was kind  “Snow dance!”  “It gets me  “I hate it.”  “I’m ready for  
half resentful.”  of hoping fall  excited for  snow football.”  
would hang  Christmas.”  
around, but if  
it’s going to be  
cold, it might as  

well snow!” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Stolen wedding album re­turned 17 years later 
LONDON — A wedding album which went missing when a caravan was stolen in Northern Ireland 17 years ago has mysteriously reappeared at the home of its owners. 
Nigel and Gillian Stewart had long given up hope of seeing their wedding photo­graphs which were inside the caravan when it was stolen, but on Tuesday the album was left at the gate to their home in a plastic bag, the BBC reported. 
“I thought I was seeing things,” the BBC quoted Gil­lian as saying this week. “I was absolutely stunned. Speechless.” 
The couple recently cel­ebrated their 25th wedding anniversary and the album’s reappearance at their home in Gilford, County Down, has been a revelation for their children. 
“It’s lovely for the children 
— they only know their dad with grey hair,” Gillian joked. 
Paris stores drops Christmas carols for rock tunes 
PARIS — Live rock and roll is replacing recorded Christ­mas carols in the windows of Galeries Lafayette as the Pa­risian department store seeks to drum up curiosity, and cli­ent numbers, for this year’s gift-buying season. 
True to tradition, the shop is putting on a dazzling show for shoppers and tourists alike in the countdown to Christmas, but this year it is seeking to strike a chord with music-mad teenagers as much as fairytale fans young and old. 
With a debt crisis forcing much of Europe into auster­ity, consumption has dropped in recent weeks, making crowd-pullers all the more important, even for upmar­ket stores that can count on a large tourist contingent in the heart of the French capital. 
Rock legend Iggy Pop, bare-chested as always, has helped Galeries Lafayette get the show on the road, posing for photo fliers in red Santa hat and matching shoes in addi­tion to his signature electric guitar. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 

The Boardroom InSights Lecture Series will  con­tinue today in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Busness.  The lecture will be from 10:40 
a.m. to 12 p.m. and will feature the Honorable Sven Holmes, Executive VC, Le­gal and Compliance, KPMG LLP. 
There will be a Labor Research Workshop called “The Struggle Against Child Labor and the Work­ing Class Construction of American Childhood” to­day from 12 to 1 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) of the LaFortune Stu­dent Center. The workshop will be led by Paul Mishler, associate professor of Labor Studies at Indiana Universi­ty-South Bend. 
There will be a Depart­ment of Accountancy Workshop today from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. in Room 122 of the Mendoza College of Business. The speaker will be Mark Peecher of the Uni­versity of Illinois. 
Hesburgh Libraries and the CSE Student Club will host National Gaming Day in the Current Periodicals Room of the Hesburgh Li­brary today from 6 to 10 
p.m. There will be a variety of gaming activities includ­ing board games, role play­ing and tournamets. 
The 2010 Worldview Film “Life, Above All” will be shown tonight in the DeBar­tolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. Tickets are $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 









HIGH 58 LOW 49 
HIGH 58 LOW 48 
HIGH 55 LOW 47 
HIGH 53 LOW 30 

Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Catholics urged to uphold faith 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer 

Fr. Robert Barron delivers a lecture on the importance of defending the Catholic faith Thursday. Barrnon showed part of his documentary series, “The Catholicism Project,” at the event. 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Catholics need to defend their faith in an increasingly secularized society, Fr. Robert Barron said at the Jordan Hall of Science on Thursday. 
Barron screened part of his documentary series, “The Ca­tholicism Project,” at the lec­ture and said it was impor­tant that Catholics share their knowledge with the world. 
“Always be ready to defend the facts and show that faith in God makes sense,” Barron said. “It’s very important that we go out to meet an increas­ingly skeptical world with the wealth of our own knowledge tradition.” 
Catholicism is more than up to the challenge of lasting in an increasingly skeptical world, but needs to adapt to a society dominated by social media and technology. Bar­ron said these are avenues of evangelism the Church has not adequately explored. 
“I was always interested in preaching and reaching out to the culture more broad­ly,” Barron said. “I saw and scientific world and wants to engage the topic in a more modern context. 
“I looked out at the culture and tried to find the seeds of the Word,” Barron said. “If ev­erything in the universe has been created by the pattern of God’s word, and if every hu­
man searches for God as St. Augustine ex­plains, then you’re bound to find the Lo­gos operating throughout culture.” 
After Bar­ron began his media-based evangeli st campaig n on WGN ra­dio, Cardi­nal George, director of the Munde­

“Engineering and science are all about reason, about using our intellect to make arguments for the faith.” 
Peter Kilpatrick Dean College of Engineering 
a smart re­ligion, but more to it, we are a beauti­ful religion and we have such a glob­al texture. Wouldn’t this be a great way to ex­plore Catholi­cism?” 
Even though it was a departure from their usual pro­gramming, 
lein Seminary where Barron serves as professor of faith and culture, encouraged him to expand his efforts. 
Barron took to YouTube to 
engage a new and more di­verse audi­ence, hoping to reach view­ers who may not attend traditional relig ious gatherings. 
“Before I knew it, view counts were going up and comments were flowing in” Barron and the culture reached back to me.” 
It was this early success that sparked Barron’s aspiration to produce “The Catholicism Project,” he said. 
“Throughout the whole me­dia campaign, I dreamt of a big project,” Barron said. “We’re 
the Colleges of Science and Engineering offered to host Barron’s presentation. College of Engineering Dean Peter Kil­patrick said Barron’s project incorporated the missions of both colleges. 
“Engineering and science are all about reason, about us­ing our intellect to make argu­ments for the faith,” Kilpatrick said. “As Saint Peter said, ‘Al­ways be ready to give a reason for the faith that is in you.’” 
Barron encouraged audi­ence members to follow his lead and seek to spread the faith in new ways. 
“God insinuates himself into every nook and cranny of ev­erything he has made” Bar­ron said. “Go and invade the society. Evangelize from the inside.” 
Contact Aubrey Butts at             abutts@nd.edu 

Farley Hall hosts Taste of ND event 

DILLON WEISNER/The Observer 
Students sample dorm foods at the Taste of ND event Thursday night at the LaFortune Student Center. 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
Students were given the chance to sample a variety of res­idence hall fare Thursday night at Farley Hall’s second annual Taste of ND. 
A dozen campus halls brought offerings from their food sale shops for students to sample and to compete in a tasting contest, sophomore Erin Killymurray, a coordinator of the event, said. 
“Taste of ND is a great oppor­tunity for every dorm food sale to show off their own unique food,” she said. “People should know that these places exist. Everyone has access to other dorms’ foods. A lot of people just don’t know about it.” 
Besides offering students the opportunity to get a taste of hall eateries, Farley took the oppor­tunity to give back, Killmurray said. Free to students last year, the hall decided to charge $2 per person, with proceeds benefit-ting the Northern Indiana Food Bank. 
“There was a great turnout last year,” she said. “We com­pletely ran out of food. With such a great turnout from last year’s event, we decided to charge $2 a person and donate the proceeds … It’s a great way to give back to the community.” 
Some of the participating dorms included Keough Kitch­en, Zahm Pizza, McGlinn Snack Shack and St. Edward Hall’s shop, Ed’s. 
Senior Toph Stare of Zahm’s Pizza said he was happy to get the word out about his hall’s food sales. 
“Finding ways to market food for dorm sales is difficult since a lot of people just don’t even know these food sales exist,” Stare said. “This event is a great opportunity for us to market our products and let people know what’s out there.” 

Senior Dana McKane, repre­sentative for McGlinn’s Snack Shack, agreed that Taste of ND could be helpful for future food sales. 
“Every dorm has something different to offer,” she said. “Now that more people can see and taste other dorms’ products, hopefully sales in each dorm will increase. Last year was the first year for the Taste of ND and also the first year that McGlinn Snack Shack was in business, so it was great for us to get some attention right away.” 
Each attendee had the oppor­tunity to vote on their favorite foods from the event, and guest judges also had input in the selec­tion of the winning foods. Guest judges included Leprechaun Mi­chael George, men’s basketball guard Joey Brooks and student body vice president Brett Roche­leau. 
The judges’ top selection was Ed’s, Killmurray said. Represen­tatives from Ed’s brought paninis and, the local favorite, smoothies. 
“The St. Ed’s smoothies are great,” Brooks said. “I’m not go­ing to lie, I might go to ‘Sted’s’ to get a smoothie once in a while.” 
George said tasting food from around campus might encourage hesitant students to venture to other dorms for late night snacks. 
“I think a lot of people don’t like to leave the comfort of their dorm when they are studying late at night,” George said. “Hopefully that will change with this event.” 
Other judges’ picks included Zahm Pizza and McGlinn Hall Snack Shack. 
“You can taste the love and care in every cupcake,” George said. 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 
how behind the curve we were as Cath­olics in using the new me­dia technol­ogy.” 
Barron sought to fill part of this void with his documentary series, which 

“I saw how behind the curve we were as Catholics in using the new media technology.” 
Fr. Robert Barron documentarian 
uses media to expose viewers to Catholic tradition across the globe. 
He said he sees God’s active presence in today’s secular said, “Through this means, I was able to draw people in who would never have come to the church otherwise. I reached out to the culture, 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, November 11 , 2011 
SMC Theatre Dept. performs adaptation of Greek myth 
By MADELINE MILES and REBECCA O’NEIL 
News Writers 
Saint Mary’s Theatre Depart­ment offered audience members a new twist on an ancient myth with its rendition of Sarah Ruhl’s “Eurydice,” which opened Thurs­day night at the College’s Little Theatre. 
The play is based on the clas­sic Greek tale of lyrist Orpheus’ attempt to rescue his lover from Hades. Ruhl’s adaptation turns the story around and presents it from the perspective of the fallen lover. 
Theatre professor Katie Sulli­van, who directed the play, said Ruhl’s adaptation gives theatre goers a unique experience of the story. 
“I am fascinated by her tech­nique of sketching the story in broad, poetic strokes,” Sullivan said. “Ruhl leaves it to music, sound, movement and visual im­agery to fill in the nuances and to make us feel the experience of the play.” 
The reimagining, Sullivan said, refreshes the story while staying true to its original mes­sage. 
“Primarily, though, the play resonates with the age-old mes­sage that love will always be what we must hold onto and that loss is, indeed, life’s most exqui­site pain,” she said. 
The play’s ensemble was drawn from Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary’s students. 
Senior theatre major Eva Cava­dini led the cast as Eurydice; his­tory professor Bill Svelmoe plays her father; Orpheus is played by Notre Dame freshman Kincaid Schmitz and the Lord of the Un­derworld is played by Holy Cross junior Nick DeDario. 
Kincaid said his first play at the Little Theatre was worthwhile. 
“It was difficult to get emotion­ally ready for it,” he said. “[The best part] is the wonderful cast I’ve gotten to work with. I think I’ll do another [play] here.” 
Sullivan said the play elicits a variety of reactions from differ­ent viewers. 
“You may find yourself laugh­ing, crying or being caught up in the strange and beautiful visual imagery we have created for our Underworld,” she said. 
The effects that went into the Underworld and other scenes made the tech day during which rehearsals are done with full costume, props, sets and effects especially difficult, Svelmoe said. 
“It was the most technically complicated show I’ve ever been in,” he said. “We had four tech days and probably put in a total of 25 hours into coordinating our movements with special effects.” 
First year Tessa Mitchell, part of the play’s “chorus of stones,” said the fulfillment of the final product outweighed the demands of the stage. 

“It was hard work and stress­ful, but definitely worth it,” she said. “It’s so great to see it come to fruition on stage.” 
Junior Dilan Yuksel said she appreciated the play’s altered point of view. 
“It was definitely cool to see the other side of the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice,” she said. “It was a really interesting play. I really enjoyed it.” 
The play will be performed to­night and tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the Little Theatre. 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu and Rebecca O’neil at roneil01@ saintmarys.edu 

Biology prof. argues for both ‘Faith and Reason’ 
By ABIGAIL FORNEY 
News Writer 
While science and religion often clash in today’s headlines, each has limitations that leave more than enough room for the other, biology professor Tom Fogle said at a lecture titled “Faith and Rea­son: A Quest for Intersections in a Modern Scientific World,” held at Saint Mary’s library Thursday. 
“Science is unequipped to en­ter into the metaphysical world of religion,” Fogle said. “The Bible is not designed to be a science book.” 
While evolution is perhaps the most hotly debated issue between the scientific and religious com-
Woo 
continued from page 1 
sense of peace and comfort. Out of whatever [the challenge] is, some­thing comes through.” 
While the College of Business has risen to the top of BusinessWeek’s undergraduate business school rankings, Woo would not take full credit for the college’s success. 
“A number one ranking has some randomness in it,” she said. “You can’t just earn a number one ranking. There is an element of the [Holy] Spirit with us.” 
Relationships with others are gifts, Woo said. If someone stands up for those in need, others will support that person in turn. 
“I think it is really important that you do not set up barriers where you look at other people by their ti­tles or by their achievements,” Woo said. “Those things are really irrel­evant. Never look down on people.” 
Woo recounted the advice of a speaker at her graduation from Purdue’s MBA program. 
“Charisma is the ability to take people as you find them, to like people for what they are and to munities, Fogle does not see an inherent conflict between the ex­planations. 
“They’re two different explana­tory devices,” he said. 
A teacher of genetics, Fogle fo­cused much of the lecture on the discovery of DNA and eugenics, or what he called science’s at­tempt “to discover the blueprint of life.” 
Fogle raised the case of Indiana in 1907, when it was the first of 31 states to legalize human steriliza­tion to eliminate genes perceived as contributing to social ills. 
“These scientists were not doing bad science . they were unaware of the limits of their analytic tools,” he said. “The in-
not despise them for what they are not,” she said. “In other words, it is a person who has the capacity for other people. And if you have the capacity for other people, you will draw people to you.” 
Set high standards and perform to your potential, Woo added. 
“It’s about the respect you give for the responsibility someone has put in your hands,” she said. “It’s about your way of honoring the people that are on the receiving end of that work. Along with that, it is very important to not let people down. And the thing is, if you don’t work at [a high] level, you have no right to expect other people to work at that level for you.” 
Even in the face of difficulty, find the good and remember to laugh, Woo said. 
“I think laughing is the best way to acknowledge that whatever dif­ficulties we are facing, that indeed, there is a better day, that we are not alone struggling in this, that there is joy,” Woo said. “If we believe in God, we know that there is hope. If the only prayer you ever say in your life is ‘thank you,’ that would be sufficient.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
teraction [between nature and nurture] is messy and hard to untangle. The more we know, the harder it is to untangle” 
It is mistakes such as this, Fo­gle said, that make it important to be mindful of science’s limited explanatory power and to allow religion to enter the conversation. 
“Biology is still a long way from thinking beyond,” he said. “Biol­ogy is discovering what the Bible has known all along.” 
“Faith and Reason” is the lat­est installment in the Believing Scholars Series, sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. 


Contact Abigail Forney  at aforne02@saintmarys.edu 






page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, November 11 , 2011 
Buttigieg 
continued from page 1 
election. 
“That is always what impressed me the most,” he said. “People grumble about young people not getting involved in politics and I don’t think that’s true.” 
The level of political engagement among South Bend and college youth is encouraging in today’s po­litical climate, Buttigieg said. 
“We’re living through a period where political discourse is very cheapened and vulgar,” he said. “Seeing young people engaged is very hopeful.” 

Buttigieg said he also hopes his son can address some of the “very serious problems South Bend has.” 
“I know he will handle [the problems] in an inclusive man­ner … through discussion and the engagement of more and more people who see this as a common cause,” Buttigieg said. 
He also expects the relationship between South Bend and the Uni­versity to improve over his son’s time in office. 
“South Bend and Notre Dame are linked and I think he will be able to successfully carry a dia­logue with Notre Dame,” he said. “They can form a good partner­ship, and looking back at his cam­paign, I have good reason to think it is possible.” 
Buttigieg said he is proud of his son’s accomplishments and will­ingness to take on the challenges and responsibilities of public of­fice. 
“The ultimate thing is that he is fulfilling his civic duty,” he said. “My wife and I wish the best for him and South Bend.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
Tweets impact GOP debates 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK  — Rick Perry had barely gotten through his gaffe in Wednesday’s Repub­lican primary debate when a rolling commentary on the TV screen declared his campaign on life support. 
“Perry is done,” came a Twit­ter posting from a viewer called (at)PatMcPsu, even while the Texas governor struggled to name the third of three fed­eral agencies he said he would eliminate as president. An­other, called (at)sfiorini, mes­saged, “Whoa? Seriously, Rick Perry? He can’t even name the agencies he wants to abolish. Wow. Just wow.” 
Perry insists his campaign isn’t over and has vowed to move on from his meltdown. 
One used to have to wait for several minutes after the de­bate ended for analysis of the 2012 presidential contest. But if Wednesday’s exchange is any indication, social networking has become the instant pun­ditry. The 140-character mes­sages known as tweets came from ordinary viewers and prominent campaign strate­gists alike. 
Social networking sites like Twitter and Facebook have long been hotbeds of politi­cal conversation, largely for an insider crowd of activists and news junkies. But CNBC, which aired the debate, took things a step further, featuring an onscreen crawl of tweets from viewers reacting to what was transpiring onstage. That allowed ordinary viewers to chime in on the political con­versation and an even larger audience. 
Social media provides “a real time citizen voice,” according to Matthew Nisbet, an associ­ate professor of communica­tions at American University who studies politics and digital media. 
“It’s no longer a passive au­dience experience, watching commentators and political strategists discussing what is being seen on the screen,” Nis­bet said. “Now people can hear it from a more diverse range of voices, and potentially from their peers.” 

CNBC spokesman Brian Steel said the network, which spe­cializes in business and finan­cial news and runs a continu­ous stock ticker, viewed social media as a natural partner for the debate. 
“During business hours CNBC is focused on providing real-time data analysis and in­formation, so social media was a great way to work in real-time reaction to the debate. It’s very consistent with what we do,” Steel said. 
The network had chosen a mix of citizen tweets to fea­ture onscreen along with those from “influencers” like former General Electric Chairman Jack Welch and Larry Sabato, a University of Virginia profes­sor and well-known political commentator, Steel said. 
CNBC even posted a tweet from (at)BarackObama, the president’s re-election Twit­ter feed, where campaign staff tweeted their reactions to the debate. 
“’Obamacare’ and ‘repeal’ are tied for the most men­tions at the second commercial break,” the post said. 
To be sure, there were far more tweets and mentions of the debate on other social me­dia than those that actually appeared on TV. 
Bluefin Labs, a Cambridge, Mass., social analytic compa­ny that tracks digital chatter around television, found there were almost 275,000 social media mentions of the CNBC debate as it was underway. That was second only to the October 18 CNN debate, which drew more than 548,000 men­tions. 
By comparison, the Fox com­edy Glee, which draws more social media commentary than any other show on television this season, averages about 189,000 mentions per episode. 

The Perry blunder, approxi­mately one hour and 19 min­utes into the debate, received by far the most Twitter atten­tion. Approximately 21,000 tweets were generated at that moment, with several going straight to the CNBC display. 
Those numbers, of course, represent a tiny fraction of the voting population. For that reason, Nisbet said it’s impor­tant not to overstate a tweet’s importance even when it ap­pears on television. 
“The voices that are posting to Twitter are not only the peo­ple most engaged in politics, they’re also strongly correlat­ed with ideology,” Nisbet said. “Whether during a Republican debate or a Democratic debate, you’ll get the two tail ends of the spectrum offering their views.” 
Nisbet also predicted eventu­ally tweets that are sponsored, or paid for, by campaigns are likely to show up in a television crawl — further diluting it as representative of citizen chat­ter. 
Adam Sharp, who handles politics and policy for Twitter in Washington, acknowledged that the Twitter audience couldn’t be considered a cross section of the voting popula­tion. But he said Twitter’s en­gaged, motivated users were an important barometer for reaction to a debate. 
“Everyone involved in cam­paigns is trying to get to the same concept: What is the voting population responding to?” Sharp said. “With Twitter, you don’t need these proxies of pundits or a focus group to give you a sample idea of how the voting population is react­ing because they are doing so in a very public, searchable way.” 
Cortright 
continued from page 1 
Kroc Institute for Peace Studies. Today, he is the director for Policy Studies at the institute. 
Cortright said his experience as a soldier during the war enables 
Philbin 
continued from page 1 
people’s lives,” Holtz said. “I can’t thank you enough for all you both have done for this country, for the people, the fun, the joy. A lot of people can be successful, but you’ve helped a lot of other people be success­ful. I’m here not as Lou Holtz. I’m here on behalf of the mil­lions of people that say thank you for the sacrifice you’ve made.” 
Holtz said he is grateful for the relationship he built with Philbin throughout his career. 
“When the bank asks me to list my assets, I start with my friendship with Regis Philbin,” Holtz said. 
Later in the show, Jenkins presented the host with a statue depicting the Visitation 

Unusual date brings hope of good luck 
Associated Press 
Friday is the 11th day of the 11th month of 2011, and around the country, many people are planning to mark the triple con­vergence of 11s with a splash, hoping it will bring them good fortune or at least amuse them for a day. 
Marjaneh Peyrovan, who just moved to New York, plans to buy 11 lottery tickets (each, of course, including the number 11). She will check out apartments she has been eyeing. And precisely at 11:11 a.m., she will walk into the office of Diane von Fursten­berg, the fash­ion designer for whom she has long dreamed of working. 

him to bring a unique perspective to his teaching and research. 
“I made some of the most im­portant decisions of my life during the Vietnam War,” Cortright said. “It has shaped my passions as I search for the truth in a profound and distinct way.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

before Jesus’ birth sculpted by Holy Cross priest Fr. Tony Lauck. 
“We are so proud to call Re­gis an alum, and we are so proud of everything you have accomplished,” Jenkins said. “I had to come out on behalf of the whole Notre Dame family to tell you how much we love you and how proud we are of you … We expect to see more of you now.” 
Jenkins recognized Philbin’s contributions to the Center for the Homeless in South Bend and other non-profit organiza­tions. 
“These people know what a great entertainer you are and how much happiness you bring to people’s lives, but you also have done so much privately and in a low key way to help others,” Jenkins said. “[This statue is] an image of the love and hope you have shared with so many people in your life.” 
“People say 
“People say on 11/11 

on 11/11 things meaningful 
things happen, things 

happen, things to him and will come true,” his fiancée, 
will come true.” 

she said. “You Tara Melton, never know.” Marjaneh Peyrovan because his 
bunch,” said Jack Parkinson, the casino’s general manager. 
In Las Vegas, Clark County Clerk Diana Alba got ready for an onslaught of weddings, with some 3,200 applications already filled out, more than three times the normal number. She is expecting the number of couples to surpass the crowd on 08/08/08 and equal the throng on 10/10/10. It may not, however, reach the turnout seen on July 7, 2007 — a date that consists of three lucky sevens. 
“That was like the granddaddy of all dates,” Alba said. 
Bryan Savage of Oklahoma City is among those ty­ing the knot on 11-11. He said the number 11 is 
Twins Betsy and Katie Over-man of Madi­son, Wis., will celebrate their 11th birthdays with sweet bread topped with a butter-cream number 11. Their moth­er, Julie Overman, plans to put 11 candles in their meals and snacks. And the twins will wear socks festooned with 11s. 
“They also found the 11 date is supposed to be lucky for re­lationships, but they still think boys are gross,” their mother said. 
In Atlantic City, N.J., some res­taurants are advertising $11.11 meals and the Trump Taj Ma­hal is planning drawings every 11 minutes for up to $1,111. The Riverwind Casino is Norman, Okla., prepared for an onslaught of gamblers eager to roll the dice or double-down in blackjack. 
“Gamblers are a superstitious birthday is 

in November 
and they met 
in November. 

“It’s just kind of cool and we didn’t really want Valentine’s Day or a holiday, but we just wanted something memorable,” he said. 
Plus, he added, it will be easier to remember his anniversary. 
In Des Moines, Iowa, Dr. Ross Valone, an obstetrician-gyne­cologist, will refund any fees he collects from delivering babies Friday. In Bellevue, Wash., Jason Brown will open his new grocery store at 11:11 a.m. 
Fans of the movie “This Is Spi­nal Tap” plan celebrations honor­ing Nigel Tufnel, the heavy-metal guitarist whose amp’s volume knob went up to 11, while lovers of corduroy planned a smatter­ing of events on the theory that the fabric’s ridges resemble lines of ones. 
Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
Perry owns up to debate blunder 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Republi­can presidential hopeful Rick Perry tried Thursday to con­vince the country he was in on the joke after his disas­trous debate performance while even his supporters worried aloud about the damage to his already hob­bling campaign. 
Perry didn’t try to sugar­coat the fallout from his minute-long stammer that crystalized concerns that he is not up for the job. Instead, he spent the day on a media blitz trying to laugh about the Wednesday evening de­bate where he struggled em­barrassingly to remember one of the three federal de­partments he wants to abol­ish, ending with a grinning, “Oops.” 
He even appeared on The Late Show with David Letter­man to offer the night’s Top Ten List of excuses for the debate. 
“Hey, listen. You try con­centrating with Mitt Rom­ney smiling at you. That is one handsome dude,” Perry chuckled during his segment with the comedian. 
The minute-long exchange was replayed throughout the day and into the evening on television, and it has already been labeled one of the worst debate blunders in recent memory. 
“That’s pretty brutal isn’t it?” Perry said on Fox News, blitzing the airwaves hoping to provide alternative video. “I stepped in it. I think some of it is still stuck on my feet.” 
He doesn’t have much time to clean up. There are fewer than eight weeks until the first nominating contests start and voters are looking for the best candidate to go head-to-head against Presi­dent Barack Obama. 
“It’s something he needs to address pretty quickly,” said uncommitted Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an early primary state. But he said Perry has time and a key survival tool: money. 
Perry reported some $15 million banked during his most recent fundraising pe­riod. His advisers said they had enough cash on hand to get them through South Car­olina. 
If Perry isn’t able to log some victories by that point, he’s got bigger problems than a 54-second piece of an oth­erwise forgettable debate. 
Perry acknowledged it was a tough moment as he flailed during the televised debate. In the episode, Perry said he would eliminate three fed­eral agencies, starting with Commerce and Education. He struggled to name the third and had to point to Energy later in the debate to round out his trio. Perry squirmed while his opponents and the audience laughed and debate moderator John Harwood in­credulously said, “You can’t name the third one?” 

“It wasn’t even on the tip of my tongue,” Perry said. 
Perry has been the first to 

acknowledge he’s  a  terrible  
debater  but  has  hoped  he  
would improve.  

“I hate debates,” he said in Des Moines last week. “I used to hate spinning in aircrafts. ... Finally I did it, and I did it enough that I finally got pretty good at it. So hold on, maybe I’ll get better at de­bates, too.” 
Maybe it won’t matter. 

Perry is a tough campaign­er. He has never lost and election — and has avoided debating in state races — and is the longest serving governor of Texas. He is a has proven a charismatic campaigner in smaller set­
“It was very embarrassing 
tings common Perry 
in Iowa, New to Rick Perry and to others did even Ha mp shi re who certainly supported worse in and South him, and I’m sure that an infor-Carolina — many of his Republican mal straw three states opponents are rejoicing.” poll at a 
that start the deb ate-nominating watching 
James Inhofe 
process and party
Oklahoma senator 
three states hosted by from the race. 
“Oh, shoot, no,” Perry said. “This ain’t a day for quitting nothing.” 
Still, the extended ex­change will provide easy fodder for attack ads.. 
On Capitol Hill, Perry’s brain freeze was widely re­garded as a grave develop­ment for his already strug­gling campaign. In private, Republicans were wondering if they had just seen the be­ginning of the end for Perry. 
Sen. James Inhofe, a Per­ry backer, phoned his col­leagues to downplay the ex­change and called Perry’s supporters to try to stop an exodus. 
“He’s a human being, he just proved that last night,” the Oklahoman said. “Right now, he’s joking around about it and it seems to be favorably received from a lot of people I’ve heard from.” 
Yet Inhofe was still cring­ing. 
“It was very embarrass­ing to Rick Perry and to oth­ers who certainly supported him, and I’m sure that many 
of his Re­
publican 
opponents 
are rejoic­
ing,” said 
Inhofe. 

where he must do well. 
Yet some Republicans, even promi­nent Perry supporters, were wondering whether the Texan can sur­vive his latest misstep. 
“As far as his charac­ter, I haven’t waivered on that,” state Rep. Peter Silva, a member of Perry’s New Hampshire steering com­mittee, said Thursday, but added: “You can’t say this is a good thing. He shot himself in the foot.” 
Others weren’t as gener­ous. 
“It’s over for him,” said Steve Schmidt, a Republi­can political strategist who ran Sen. John McCain’s 2008 campaign. 
But in an interview with The Associated Press early Thursday, Perry said the moment wouldn’t force him promi­
nent New 
Hamp­
shire con­
servative, 

Jennifer Horn, a recent Republican congressional candidate who previously backed for­mer Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty’s now-abandoned bid. 
Horn said that of about 40 Republicans at the party, only about four said they supported Perry before the debate began. That already-small number was cut in half after the debate. 
“That’s not a scientific sample. But that does show that people are influenced by what happens at these debates,” Horn said. “That was highly unfortunate, es­pecially for people in New Hampshire who know how strong he can be in person. It was difficult to watch.” 
Storm tears through Alaska’s western coast 


Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — A mas­sive storm that battered Alaska’s western coast with hurricane-strength winds and towering sea surges has passed out of the re­gion in a much weaker state, but it left behind widespread damage and worries that a man may have been swept out to a churning sea. 
So far, 37 communities have reported some form of damage, said Jeremy Zidek, spokesman for the state’s emergency man­agement agency. Most of those communities have opened emer­gency community shelters, Zidek said. 
The strongest storm to hit the state’s western coast in almost four decades also left behind tales of human endurance. 
In one remote village that lost heat and power early Wednesday, about 20 vehicles lined up along an airstrip and used their head­lights to guide in a plane carry­ing repair workers. 
Other residents there came to­gether and did traditional Eski­mo dances used during whaling season to seek good weather. 
On Thursday, rescuers searched for a 26-year-old man who authorities said may have been washed into the Bering Sea during the storm. 
Kyle Komok, of Teller, was last seen at 4 p.m. Wednesday as he headed toward a jetty where waves were cresting as high as 10 feet, Alaska State Troopers said. 
Komok’s sister, Maggie Christ­offerson, of Kodiak, told The As­sociated Press that her brother is an experienced mechanic. 
“We’re hoping he’s just stuck somewhere, and we’re just pray­ing that he’s safe.” 
Emergency responders called the storm an epic event that displaced residents, flooded the shoreline, ripped up roofs and knocked out power in many vil­lages. 
The process of gauging the full extent of the damage will begin soon, officials said Thursday. They noted some of the hardest-hit communities are in areas where winter daylight comes late in the day and mornings are in pitch darkness, which slowed down inspections. 
Another storm stepped in to replace the tempest, but fore­casters said the new storm was much weaker and expected to begin dying down later Thurs­day. It brought winds ranging from 20 to 40 mph, said National Weather Service meteorologist Don Moore. 
In comparison, the storm that pounded the Bering Sea coast this week carried gusts of nearly 90 mph and created tides as high as 10 feet above normal. 

Though far less powerful, the new storm contributed to already high water levels and kept them from receding as quickly, Moore said. 
Communities hard hit include the northwest Alaska villages of Point Hope, built on a large gravel spit, and Kivalina, one of the most eroded communities in the state. 
Point Hope Mayor Steve Oom­ittuk said homes in the Inupiat Eskimo community have been without electricity and heat since early Wednesday, after winds gusting at 80 mph slammed an old wooden shack into a power pole with five main lines, cutting it in half. The building then broke apart, sending wood flying. 
“There’s a lot of debris in that area,” Oomittuk said Thursday morning, soon after repair work­ers landed at the airstrip. 
With the lights out, vehicles lined up along the runway to guide the plane with their head­lights. 
Oomittuk said the winds were too strong during the storm to get a full picture of the damage around the community. 
More than 500 of Point Hope’s nearly 700 residents have been staying at the village school, which has its own generator. Principal Greg Wilbanks said the school would remain a communi­ty shelter Thursday night if pow­er was not restored as quickly as hoped. That would mean classes would continue to be canceled for the rest of the week. 
Among those seeking shelter at the school was Nellie Sears, the school librarian. She said every classroom was full of residents seeking shelter. 
For a while there was a warn­ing Wednesday that the barrel­ing storm could get worse. So villagers started performing the traditional Eskimo dances they do during whaling season, when they are seeking good weather. Just before 10 p.m., they got word that the warning had been can­celed, Sears said. 
“We dance to get help,” she said. 
Kivalina, 75 miles down the coast, got a “good surge from the ocean,” said village spokes­woman Colleen Swan. But morn­ings are very dark and the extent of flooding was not immediately known beyond water washing over the village dump site and onto the beach, she said. 
She later toured the area and said there was no damage to the dump even though water reached a part of it. She said the beach was stressed and the ice la­goon cracked by the huge waves clocked in at 25 mph. At first glance, the village escaped with minimal impact. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, November 11, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Ryanair 

For those of you who have studied abroad in Europe, or those headed there in the future, the following is a plug for Ryanair, the Ireland-based airline that is famous for it’s low fares (15 Euro flights from Dublin to London?) that are perfect for the col-Lauren Kalinoski lege student study­ing abroad. As a Graphic Designer seasoned customer, with eight Ryanair flights taken during my junior semester studying in Rome, I have compiled a list of the best attributes of the airline: 
10. Customer comfort is a priority 

Everyone always wants to get up and walk around on airplanes, and if Ryanair had its way, you could! Standing-room only tickets were a great idea. 
9. Enforced diets 

European airlines are huge fans of giv­ing you food, even if it’s only an hour-long flight. Ryanair, however, recognizes that not everyone wants the temptation of free Swiss chocolate while onboard. They sympathize with your calorie counting and refuse your cravings for sustenance, even after 3 hours on the runway followed by a 3-hour flight. 
8. Conveniently located airports 

Why fly directly into Lake Como when you can fly into Bergamo, Italy, which is only a bus ride, shuttle ride, second bus ride and an hour and forty minutes away? 
7. Entertainment on board 

Ryanair solves the problem of boredom on long flights by installing brightly colored safety placards on the back of every seat for the customer to view at his or her pleasure. The ever-entertaining game of counting how many of each letter appears on the sign is always enjoyable (if you get a final count on the ‘E’s let me know, we could never come up with the same number twice …). 
6. Beautiful decor 

The University of Michigan colors are beloved by all Notre Dame students, so it’s lucky that Ryanair thought they were the perfect soothing color palette to cover their seats with (bring Advil). 
5. Win the lottery while flying! 

You will be reminded, often loudly, that for some reason, the stewards can also sell you lottery tickets along with the beverage of your choice. 
4. Smoking will not be tolerated (… unless we don’t speak the same language as the smoker) 
Italians smoke everywhere, and they are apparently very difficult to remove from planes. 
3. Safety and information 

I appreciate keeping the customer in­formed, but the phrase, “We now have the minimum legal requirements to take off,” is better left unsaid, especially if I’m already concerned because by the time the de-icing machine finishes one wing, the other one is already frozen again. 
2. Pack (lightly) like a champion 

Do you always over pack? If you’re like me, then Ryanair can help you with this problem. If you can’t fit all your luggage in the shoebox-sized carry on allowed, you can always unpack your belongings in front of everyone on your flight and proceed to put on as many articles of clothing as you can. Try to avoid packing wool sweaters in this situation. 
1. Maximum security 

Through security and metal detectors twice with a wine-opener in my bag = yes. Five-ounce sealed container of peanut but­ter = nice try, but that stuff’s dangerous. 
In all honestly, Ryanair saved me hun­dreds of Euro over my semester abroad (and clearly, I survived all the flights). Fear­ing for my life a few times only allowed me to have that much extra money for gelato: a fair trade in my opinion. 
Contact Lauren Kalinoski at lkalinos @nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Professionalism & integrity above all 
Sometimes, football becomes the smallest thing. shown a commendable willingness to separate their dual 
At schools like Notre Dame, Penn State and Ohio State, identities. the football team and its head coach often transcend their As Penn State students marched by the thousands up and simple athletic role. They become symbols of a university, down their campus, many shouted vulgar slurs at the scores its students and alumni — the successes and failures within of media members who had descended upon Happy Valley. A the football program are magnified beyond the 
local TV news van was knocked onto its side and sidelines. its windows were shattered. At least one ESPN 
In times of struggle, tragedy and scandal, the reporter had rocks thrown in his direction. heat of the spotlight burns even hotter. When a salacious event occurs like the one that But it is during times like these that students upended the Nittany Lion landscape this week, of such universities feel an irresistible urge to the media firestorm surrounding it naturally 
protect their home, their coach, their alma ma­ter. The riots at Penn State this past week have shown in an unprecedented way how far students will go to protect their own leaders and mentors — even in the face of overwhelm­ingly negative public opinion toward those leaders. 
At times of crisis, the student newspaper becomes a unique case study in conflict of interest and mixed loyalties. Like all other students, those who report on their classmates’ athletic, academic and personal achievements yearn to protect those they know best. However, these same individuals have made a commitment to uphold their responsibility as unbiased reporters of the news. Their sole mission, as The Observer’s original staff editorial stated, is “to uncover the truth and report it accurately.” 
In this respect, the Editorial Board of The Observer would like to recognize the staffs of The Lantern of Ohio State University and, more recently, The Daily Collegian of Penn State University for their outstanding and balanced reporting of the scandals which have rocked their schools. By utilizing journalistic tenets such as tenacious sourcing, broad cover­age and nearly-instant breaking news updates, the students who double as writers and staffers at these papers have 
attracts reporters from around the world. The student reporters are among those who have spread them­selves thin throughout the campus in an attempt to cover the various press conferences and protests over the past week, and therefore are also targets of attacks of their peers. 

These attacks, whether warranted or not, risk belittling the effort that coverage of these kinds of stories demand and diminish the thanks in an already thankless job. Student reporters were on the scene years before the news crews from CNN and The New York Times rolled in, and they will be there long after as the coverage fades away from the national scene. But in many ways the intimacy with which students are allowed to report on and write about the actions of their peers and their mentors cannot be rivaled by media conglom­erates. 
Therefore we at The Observer want to take our time to recognize those student journalists who, when confronted by stories that challenge their identity and loyalty, continue to put professionalism and integrity above all else. We look to their staffs as an example for the future, and we will always strive to live up to our highest calling, expressed in that 1966 editorial: to uncover the truth and report it accurately. 

Feeding 7 billion: trick or treat? 
Oct. 31, 2011, was a scary day, and not just because Frankenstein and Big Foot were running around on campus. This Halloween, the world population hit 7 billion people, a milestone that has generated increasing concern about how our world can provide the basic necessities of food, clothing, shelter and energy for more and more people. So just how fast is the Michelle Fuhrman world population growing? In 1900, the world had 1.6 billion people, The GreenMan and 99 years later, that number had grown to 6.1 billion. It is projected that by 2025, when current Notre Dame students are 32-36 years old, the world population will hit 8 billion, and that is a lot of mouths to feed. 
What’s the big deal with feeding 7 billion people? We’re all vaguely aware that not everyone can just walk into North or South Dining Hall and have a smorgasbord of delicious and nutritional food available. World hunger is one of the major complex issues facing our society today. In 2010, one in seven people, or 925 million people total, experienced chronic, lasting hunger, and the sad part is that there is currently enough food being produced worldwide to feed all 7 billion of us. The challenge lies in making the food accessible to people from both an economic and logistics standpoint. 
Part of the problem is that 3 billion people live on $2 or less per day to pay for living expenses, and with rising food prices, it is becoming increasingly difficult for these people to access food. The unstable world economy and unhealthy job market are adding to the poverty problem. 
Another part of the problem is waste. Did you know that only 25 percent of all food produced is actually eaten? The other 75 percent goes unused in a variety of ways, ranging from weather and crop deterioration, spoilage from trans­portation and holding issues, food processing plants, grocery store matters (especially with shelf life, expiration dates and the appearance of particular foods), restaurants and oth­ers. Think about the last time you went to a restaurant. How many people in your party actually “cleaned their plate?” Did you all take home your leftovers? Now think about how many people dine out every day, and how much food is wasted. 
Let’s look at another more industrial example. Consider going to the grocery store to buy apples. When thinking of an apple, a picture of a bright red, sweet, fresh and juicy fruit likely comes to mind, but a small percentage of all apples grown match this perfect image in consumers’ minds. To meet customer expectations, undesirable apples are re­moved at various stages between the orchard and consumer, including in the orchard itself, after initial transportation to a warehouse, once food arrives at grocery stores and even when the apples are placed on the shelf. Grocery stores can reject entire batches of apples if they do not think they are up to par. 
Jonathan Bloom is the author of “American Wasteland,” which has mind-blowing statistics and images in regards to how much food we waste just in the United States alone. For example, remember the disastrous oil spill that occurred last year in the Gulf of Mexico from BP’s Deepwater Horizon well? As much of a catastrophe as the Gulf spill was, every year, we waste 70 times the amount of oil that surged into the ocean from this tragedy just by wasting food, which required a huge amount of energy to grow and transport. Where are the newspaper headlines and CNN Special Re­ports bringing this issue into the spotlight? 
We have the opportunity to bring this issue to light here at Notre Dame by participating in Waste Free Wednesdays, Grab and Give drives, Wednesday Lunch Fast and by simply putting on our plate only what we plan to eat. There are 7 billion people and counting in this world, and while the numbers may be frightening, they cannot be avoided. Let’s try to be aware of how our daily decisions have the potential to impact other people and drive change. 

Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at ask­thegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 

“We are the music makers, and we are the dreamers of dreams.” 
Arthur O’Shaughnessy British poet 



Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Honoring my dad, an American vet 
Gaze into the eyes of any 22-year-old senior on a college campus today, and you see my father’s eyes 68 years ago just before his combat deployment overseas in World War II. Those eyes betrayed a fun-loving soul, later scorched by Gary Caruso the war demons for more than Capitol Comments 500 consecutive days at such crucial battles as the Anzio Beachhead and Monte Cassino in Italy. Luckily for history’s sake, my dad’s fellow infantrymen, James B. Moss, chronicled their Fifth Army experiences in a diary currently Internet accessible through the Virginia Military Institute Archives. 
Early in 1943 my dad wrote his address and name, “Danny A. Caruso,” on page 3 of the Moss Diary under “My Buddies.” During their initial, carefree days in the 15th Field Artillery Observation Battal­ion, my dad was “Danny.” After embark­ing upon duty under General George S. Patton and being promoted to sergeant in the Two Corps, he eventually became “Daniel.” Danny was forever buried with other “buddies” who failed to return home while Daniel moved on by suppressing his misanthropic demons after the war. 
My earliest memory of my father and war is a mix of playing with his medals and asking questions. When about 4 years old, I noticed a dime-sized scar on my 
dad’s ankle. “What’s this?” I asked. 
“Nothing,” he softly answered. 
As is typical of a curious child, I discov­ered another scar on his other leg, and then more scars on both the inside as well as on the outside of each ankle. I persisted, “How’d you get these?” 
“In the war from my boots.” 
“Do they hurt?” I continued. 
In a low-key, somewhat hollow whisper he answered, “They’re nothing.” 
Three decades later I understood exactly what “nothing” meant when I ac­companied him to the American cemetery in Anzio, Italy. He meticulously researched the location of his best friend who had fall­en next to him more than 40 years prior on the beachhead. As he methodically ap­proached a white cross, the sky began to drizzle as though to cry for him. Pausing, he placed his hand on the cross, bit his lip, turned his head away and sobbed, “Here’s my buddy.” 
While I don’t know exactly how my dad and his comrade forged their bond, over the years he told more stories as time dis­sipated the trauma and graphic horrors of their 26-month everyday existence. I learned that soldiers try to make the best of an unfair hell through irony, mischief and humor. My father’s unit comman­deered an armored truck that netted 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Satisfying the masses 
Joe Paterno’s firing is a move meant to satisfy the supposed masses of out­raged citizens instead of actually curing the problems causing the outrage. In this case, he’s a figurehead, a scapegoat meant to take the fall so the institu­tion of college sports can move on without actually doing anything about its many problems. 
Such a move is typical of the NCAA and their collegiate cronies: slap sanc­tions on a big name every few years, and the bandwagon of moral outrage fades away while backroom dealings detrimental to the sport carry on undis­turbed. 
In recent years, more criticism has been levied at the current state of colle­giate sports. The NCAA, panicked, has responded to this by punishing pro­grams at a faster rate: USC, Ohio State and Miami were scrutinized in quick succession. While people in these programs did do something wrong, the NCAA does not care about solving its problems. It cares about saving face and the money that comes with that. Nab a big name, get a few years of freedom. Rinse, wash, repeat. 
Don’t get me wrong: child abuse is a terrible thing. But, as I’ve heard the story reported, Paterno notified the people he was supposed to back when the incident happened. Maybe he could have done more. Maybe he should have done more. But firing one of the most respected coaches in the sport does not do anything to solve the problem of child abuse. It’s a move meant to placate the masses while giving the current system a veneer of moral righteousness, covering up their lack of any real action against the ills of both society and the system itself. 
Matthew Moniz 
senior 
Dillon Hall 
Nov. 9 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

about three feet of Lire in the bottom of each barrack’s bag — that is, until one drunken soldier bragged that he could buy and sell everyone. When officers investigated and confiscated the money, sergeants like my father emptied each bag on the owner’s cot. My father emptied his on another cot — “just to be safe.” 
Nothing bonds men more than humor. A recruit named Jones, who became consti­pated from the “chow,” earned his nick­name in boot camp that forever stuck even years later at reunions: “Poopy Jones.” But humor could not lessen the daily grind, prevent death nor overcome stress and physical exhaustion. Nor did humor ever free my dad from the three constant smells of the war: rotting flesh, burning rubber and kerosene. 
Each day he was subjected to aerial bombings, artillery shelling and sniper at­tacks. A night after the war had ended in Europe, another friend decided to finally sleep peacefully away from camp under a tree. My dad found him the next morning, killed by a Nazi sniper’s bullet. 
Near the end of my dad’s life, he freely volunteered witnessing chaos, murder, hate, rape and racism against fellow humans. He often told of counterbalanc­ing ironies. Once, entering a village during the dead of winter, my dad marched past a family — parents, children and grandpar­ents — sitting frozen like statues around their dinner table on the second floor. An artillery shell blew away their wall, and the explosion sucked the breath from their bodies. When my dad later comman­deered a house for his headquarters, he threatened a woman at gunpoint who had banished her father to sleep in a cold barn. As long as Daniel occupied headquarters, the old man slept next to the fireplace. 
My “Greatest Generation” father occa­sionally still touches my life with remind­ers of his mental and physical sacrifices. Last week in the Holocaust Museum, a solitary 89-year-old WWII vet wondered near me. His hat blazed “Anzio” in large capital letters. Neither of us had ever vis­ited the museum before, yet I stood with a soldier who fought with my dad. 
Written memoirs and movie portrayals cannot adequately describe the sacrifices of my dad and his buddies. Neither can I. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at  GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Let Rainbow Road be free 
Dear Chris Mathew, 
Your letter regarding Mario Kart “Occupy Rainbow Road” (Nov. 10), looks at the issues in the wrong manner. This game is a great game, and should remain at the pinnacle of “fun party games.” 
Your first complaint is that Mario Kart is hostile to guests and new play­ers. While this may be true on the upper levels of the game, in 100 and 150 cc races, it is not the case in 50 cc. With practice, any person can rise from vic­torious in 50 cc races to victorious in the 100 cc and finally to the 150. If you do not have the time nor the means to practice, you should attempt to coach others. Maybe be a team player. You could give instructions to a friend to help him win the race! 
Your second complaint discussed the players going against maps, not oth­ers. Once a player arrives at a certain level of play, however, that player can avoid the trials of the Mario Kart maps and compete against the other play­ers. This usually comes after the many rounds of practice and trials. 
Your third argument discussed the disparity between the rewards given to those who could aim a green shell and those who could powerslide. How­ever, in Mario Kart, a well-timed green shell can change the course of a race. Imagine a green shell hit right before the double turn in Banshee Boardwalk. Right at that point, the race is changed. While this may be “maintaining in­ventory,” it is possible to get those right before this turn. If the player is lucky enough, anything is possible. 
Your final point is that those bananas will bother those who are behind. I must say, however, that blue shells, red shells, Bullet Bills and many other obstacles ahead will hit those high-ranked players from behind. It is a cycle, and if it is timed properly, those with shells can dominate. 
Your article is very well thought out, but try to view both sides next time. 
Thank you, 
Bill Shields 
senior Stanford Hall Nov. 10 



MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


By ANKUR CHWALA 
Scene Writer 
This weekend, the Maryland football team won’t be the only cupcake in D.C. For those of you going to the game, use this Cupcake Guide to find the best cupcake for you (or me, if you’re feeling generous). 
Over fall break, while many of you were enjoying a relax­ing time at home, on campus, in Appalachia or elsewhere, I was in our nation’s capital, touring the best cupcakeries Washing­ton D.C. had to offer (oh, and on a Sustainable Development Seminar through the CSC). The following is a cupcakery-by­cupcakery and cupcake-by-cup­cake breakdown, starting with my favorites. 
Contact Ankur Chwala at achwala@nd.edu 


ANKUR CHWALA/The Observer ANKUR CHWALA/The Observer 





page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 11 , 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Snowy Test for QBs 
Snow. 
Surely it is the most polar­izing of weather conditions. Most agree that a warm, sunny day with clear skies is pleas­ant weather, and most would also agree that a cold, dreary day punctuated with rain is the opposite. 
But the same cannot be said about snow. For some, snow means trudging through bit­terly cold winter days, sloshing through white fluff that has turned to muddy slush. For others, snow means enjoying the thrill of stand­ing atop a mountain, just waiting to ski down. 
For some, snow means treacherous driving conditions, living in fear of that single patch of black ice, which will undoubtedly hurl their car off the side of the road. For others, snow brings the heart­warming idea of sitting by a fire, read­ing a book 

Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 

and drinking “But it seems that more being the hot chocolate often than not, what exception). as flakes fall wins championships It is often 
outside their is a quarterback who said that window. defense wins 
can play in any and all 
Snow is not champion-
conditions and still lead 
just polarizing ships, and 
his team to victory.” 
for the aver-this mantra 
In 2006, those same Pitts­burgh Steelers defeated both the Cincinnati Bengals and the Denver Broncos on their road to the Super Bowl, two teams who play their home games outside in cold climates. 
Most recently, the Green Bay Packers and their up-and­coming quarterback Aaron Rodgers, a six-seed in the 2010 NFL playoffs, beat both the Philadelphia Eagles and the Chicago Bears on the road in games with below-freezing temperatures. 
In the playoffs, home field ad­vantage does matter. But only three of the past 10 Super Bowl winners played with home field advantage throughout the playoffs. What matters more is a team’s, and particularly a quarterback’s, ability to cope with the elements that are sure to arise in the middle of Janu­ary. 
Of those quarterbacks considered in the debate for greatest of all time, the field is relatively evenly split between cold weather quarterbacks and warm weather or dome quar­terbacks. But among the quar­terbacks more known for their 
wins than 
their stats, 
most are 
cold weather 
quarterbacks 
(Joe Montana 
age person 
— it is just as polarizing for NFL teams, and in par­ticular, for their most recogniz­able member, the quarterback. 
As the calendar nears its end, and temperatures drop in many parts of the country, the NFL moves into the second half of its season. It is now, and par­ticularly in the playoffs, that weather becomes a factor. But how important a factor? 
Of the past 10 Super Bowl winners, seven were teams that played their home games in cold weather areas without a roof over their heads. 
Of those seven, two had home field advantage throughout the playoffs. But what is more striking is that the other five each had to win at least one game not only away from home, but also in a cold weather venue. 
From 2001 and 2004, Tom Brady and the New England Patriots went into Pittsburgh and beat the Steelers in the AFC Championship game. 
certainly has its merits. But it seems that more often than 
not, what wins championships is a quarterback who can play in any and all conditions and still lead his team to victory. Tom Brady, John Elway, Brett Favre, Terry Bradshaw, Ben Roethlisberger — quarterbacks who are considered ‘winners’ 
— played their home games in cold weather and knew how to win despite the temperature. 
Super Bowls have always been played in warm weather areas or domes, so weather conditions rarely apply in the championship. But throughout the rest of the playoffs, weather matters and the most success­ful teams are the ones with quarterbacks who can handle it. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.                  
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish to face two conference foes 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

Coming off a pair of vic­tories in their final home matches of the year last weekend, the Irish will hit the road to finish the regular season. 
Notre Dame (15-9, 8-4 Big East) faces conference foes Marquette and Syracuse on Friday and Sunday, respec­tively. 
Last season the Golden Ea­gles (20-8, 10-2) got the best of the Irish, coming from be­hind to win in five sets. Ac­cording to Irish coach Debbie Brown, avenging last year’s loss will require a sharp ser­vice game. 
“When they receive serves, their side out is very strong,” she said. “Then they’re of­fense is very good. They have strong middle hitters and a very good right side hitter. They don’t give up points eas­ily. Because they side out so well, it’s hard for teams to score points on them.” 
Brown also said Mar­quette’s sparkling Big East record is no fluke, as many predicted them to have suc­cess this season. 
“They’re one of the top teams in the Big East, I be­lieve they were in the top four in the preseason poll,” she said. “They are definitely go­ing to be a pretty good chal­lenge. Louisville and Cincin­nati have proven that they are very strong . they’re the top two teams in the conference right now. Marquette being right behind them wasn’t a surprise.” 
Though behind the Gold­en Eagles in the conference rankings, the Orange (17-11, 6-6) are a talented squad, ac­cording to Brown. She said their blockers in particular will challenge her team. 
“I think they are very good. It’ll be tough, too, because we’ll be on the road . that’s always tough,” Brown said. “They are a very, very good blocking team ¬. that’s one of their strengths. We are going to have to work at our shots and make sure we don’t make any unforced errors.” 

Though Brown remains concerned with Marquette and Syracuse, she does not fear an emotional letdown following the senior-day sweep against Rutgers last Sunday. She said her team is completely focused on the road trip. 
“I don’t think so,” Brown said of the possibility of a let­down. “You have [senior day] every year. The seniors have their last home match and I think they were prepared for it. Now we’re just excited to go up to Marquette because we’ll be back here in a week for the tournament. We’re looking forward to going and playing up there and getting very familiar.” 
Notre Dame will take on the Golden Eagles on Friday at 6 p.m, before facing Syracuse at noon on Sunday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles to host upstart Defiance 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s may be a member of the nation’s oldest collegiate conference, but the Belles will face a brand new Defiance team at their dual meet this Saturday. 
The Yellow Jackets swim­ming and diving team (1-2) competed for the first time Oct. 29 when they beat Ursu­line and lost to Alma at home. Defiance lost its dual meet at home against Franklin Nov. 5, and the Blue Jackets are scheduled to host Baldwin-Wallace on Friday night be­fore traveling to South Bend for their first road meet in school history. 
Although Defiance is an unknown entity at this point, Belles coach Mark Benishek said he expects good races from both teams. 
“I’m not very familiar with their team,” he said. “I know that they just started a pro­gram this year. I’ll go out on a limb and say I think all [the races] are going to be pretty exciting. I’m really looking forward to this meet. I think their team is going to have some fast swims across the board here, but I think the backstroke and the IM are going to be neck-to-neck with some good competition, along with the 50 Free.” 
The Belles (0-3) are still looking for their first dual meet victory of their season. Although Benishek said he was pleased by the results of individuals so far this sea­son, he wants to see times continue to drop. 
“We’re always looking to improve, and definitely going into this weekend I think we should see some good times,” he said. “It’s been a pretty hard week for us training-wise, but we’re ready to swim hard going into this meet. We’re just about at the midpoint of the season here, so I think we should see some good times from the girls.” 
Benishek said the week­end should be relatively rest­ful for a Saint Mary’s squad that competed in two meets last weekend and powered through a hard week in the practice pool. 
“It was a tough week on the girls, if you would ask them,” he said. “We had some very hard swims Mon­day and Tuesday. Wednes­day we backed off a little bit, but there’s still plenty of fast swimming going on. We’re still kind of building up for the two large invites we have coming up here at the begin­ning of Thanksgiving break.” 

Although Saint Mary’s does not have a stellar dual meet record this fall, Benishek said he was pleased with the personal improvements by his athletes, especially those who were willing to switch races for the sake of the team. 
“There’s been improvement in every aspect,” he said. “We’ve definitely seen a lot from our freshman, Anna No­lan — she’s accepted the role of backstroker. We lost a lot of backstrokers this past year so she’s filling the void in the sprint area. She’s made some great, great, great times. 
Benishek said junior Kristyn Gerbeth also stepped up and, though she was a sprint freestyler the past two years, she tried butterfly this year. 
“She kind of shocked the entire team with some of her times, so we’re really looking for some great things out of her going into some of these bigger meets,” Benishek said. 
The Belles will host the Yel­low Jackets’ first away meet in program history at Rolfs Aquatic Center at 1 p.m. Sat­urday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

House For Rent: Hoosier Quotes: Coach Norman Dale: And most Coach Norman Dale: [after sitting 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
If you want to live off Campus-look important, don’t get caught up an injured Everett] Strap, in for at this house first! Available now! Coach Norman Dale: You know, thinking about winning or loosing Everett. Don’t shoot the ball unless 2nd semester - Summer lease in the ten years that I coached, I this game. If you put your effort you’re under the basket all by 
House for rent in beautiful Wooded available...OR May 2011-2012 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t never met anybody who wanted and concentration into playing to yourself! Estates.  School year. go it alone. Notre Dame has many to win as badly as I did. I’d do your potential, to be the best that 
Well maintained 3 bedroom, resources in place to assist you. anything I had to do to increase you can be, I don’t care what the Wilbur ‘Shooter’ Flatch: You 3 Br, 2 Ba, finished basement, laundry, hardwood floors,nice If you or someone you love needs my advantage. Anybody who scoreboard says at the end of the gotta promise me you won’t get fenced yard, laundry. $1100/mo. yard, Great location, close to SMC confidential support or assistance, tried to block the pursuit of that game, in my book we’re gonna be kicked outta no more games! 
and ND.   please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 advantage, I’d just push ‘em out winners! Coach Norman Dale: Scout’s Walk to campus. Call 269 429-6346    or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more of the way. Didn’t matter who they honor. Phone: 0r                                                  information, visit ND’s website at: were, or what they were doing. But Okay?!! 
616 292-9829 for an appt. that was then. 574-514-6260 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Happy 8th Birthday Annie! 
Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
BARAKA BOUTS 

Annual fights conclude with first-ever finals round 
By ERNST CLEOFE blocking with punches that in-Sports Writer cluded Leach’s crowd-silencing 
right hook in the middle of the Erin “Barney” Flattery def. round. Montemarano recovered Sarah “It’s Miller Time” Miller late with good exchanges with 
The first fight of the evening Leach. featured an eventful matchup In the second round, Leach between Flattery, a junior, and took control of the fight with her sophomore Miller. The decisive quickness. Using quick jabs, she moments came in the final sec-found holes in Montemarano’s onds of round three when Flat-blocks and struck whenever tery snatched the victory. Montemarano hesitated. 
Miller controlled the first The third round was fairly round, setting the tone by land-even, with Montemarano so­ing a strong straight jab for the lidifying her blocking. She ef­first punch of the night. Miller fectively countered as Leach kept close to Flattery and used started to miss punches late in her quickness to break through the fight. Flattery’s guard. But the third round was not 
In the second, Flattery start-enough, and Leach earned the ed to come back by shortening unanimous-decision victory. her punches to counter Miller’s quickness, and it was clear the Michelle “Lights Out” Laux third round would decide the def. Molly “Motha Trucka” victor. Allare 
The third round started with Senior Laux and freshman Al-energy as Flattery and Miller lare fought in a neck-and neck traded solid combinations. battle with momentum swings In the final 20 seconds of the throughout the rounds. round, Miller cornered Flat-Allare came out in the first tery and gained the advantage. round as the more aggressive But in the final seconds, Flat-fighter, but Laux capitalized tery broke free from the corner on that aggressiveness. With and threw a flurry of punches Allare focusing on the attack, to end the round. The last sec-Laux countered against Allare’s ond effort proved to be key with lack of defense. Flattery winning narrowly in a In the second round, Allare unanimous decision. solidified her guard and began 
to show more accuracy with her final round effort. the same to Freeman. It was many of her strikes and set the Kelsey “Try and Hit Me” punches. However, Laux still The first round appeared unclear who had the advantage. tone for a unanimous decision Blomeke def. Laura “Sunshin-was able to break through and to be Currier’s. She came out Mayka came out stronger in victory. er” Semeraro get solid shots on Allare. strong and dodged Byrne well, the second round and seemed Sophomore Carmack fought 
Senior Blomeke earned a vic-Laux tried to finish the fight while at the same time landing to have the slight upper-hand. off the attacks well in the first, tory against junior Semeraro in the third round by being solid punches. Byrne countered Mayka was on the offensive landing a few of her own, but with smart strategy changes more aggressive, but, like Al-well though, and landed a few much of the round landing many Baldasare finished off the round throughout the bout. lare in the first round, Laux’s of her own. punches on Freeman. Freeman with a flurry of punches. 
The first round was a defen-defense suffered. Allare started Byrne turned it around, and had a few good counters with The second was somewhat of sive battle with each boxer feel-to land better punches through gained control early in the sec-some strong jabs. a different story. Baldasare and ing out the other’s style. her counter. ond round. Currier was on de-Freeman started the third Carmack traded blows, both 
In the second round, Blomeke After a close fight, Laux won fense much of the time and did round strong with a flurry of getting in some hard hits. finally broke through Semera-in a split decision. not land as many punches as punches. But Mayka countered Energy seemed to be the key ro’s guard with the first of her she had in the first round. stronger. She fought off Free-factor in the third round. Bal­in-match strategy changes. By Anna “The Husker Hammer” For the third round, the fight-man’s attack and went on one of dasare still seemed to have aggressively pushing forward, Heffron def. Julie “Out of ers traded blows for most of it. her own. Mayka landed a dev-something in the tank, while Blomeke kept Semeraro off-bal-Mind” Saxer The slight upper hand seemed astating hit in the middle of the Carmack was running on emp­ance and in retreat for much of Sophomore Heffron over-to be on Byrne’s side. She threw round, and Freeman had to be ty. This allowed Baldasare to the round. whelmed junior Saxer with a a lot of solid punches and was checked to continue. After the take control of the fight, landing 
Blomeke finished the match consistent intensity and aggres-backing Currier up against the delay, Mayka closed with confi-punch after punch. strong and ensured the victory siveness. ropes. This final round clinched dence, giving her the marginal This last round seemed to by throwing continuous punch-Heffron started the match off it for Byrne, who won with a split-decision victory. clinch it for Baldasare, who won es and forcing Semeraro to keep well by forcing Saxer to con-spilt decision from the judges. on a unanimous decision. her guard up. stantly back away from her Tori “I’ll Make You Pay” White 
Blomeke won the bout in a punches. But in the second half Michelle “Michelle Michelle” def. Ann “Fluffykins” Conover Gina “I’m Not Sorry” Rogari unanimous decision. of the first round, Saxer initi-Young def. Hannah “The Ani-Freshman White was white def. Jenny “Moves Like Jag­
ated a momentum swing with mal” Skinner hot, as she came out aggres-ger” Walsh Stany “The Bulgarian Beast” quick, accurate jabs from her Junior Young took control of sively in the first round and Sophomore Rogari was un-Sevova def. Grace Welte guard, one of which bloodied the bout early and did not re-powered through to victory. apologetic in her approach as “Maker” Heffron’s nose. linquish it, earning herself the White’s attack sent junior she took control in the first 
Junior Sevova overwhelmed But Heffron began the sec-unanimous decision victory. Conover blocking for most of round and refused to relinquish sophomore Welte with her ond round with the same inten-Putting senior Skinner on the round. Conover took a lot of it throughout the fight. quickness in a dominant win. sity as the first. She came out the defensive in the first round, shots, which seemed to be tak-In the second round, sopho-
Sevova opened the match with fast punches that forced Young was in attack mode early. ing a toll on the fighter. more Walsh had a stronger and with an energetic start, ef-Saxer to back into the corner, The second round was the In the second round, White more spirited attitude about fectively moving and dodging and even down to a knee at same story as the first, with continued with precision. A her, landing more punches. Welte’s punches. Sevova would one point. Heffron’s speed con-Young in control and connect-massive right hook from White These came on counters, how-then pick opportune times to tinually kept Saxer off-balance, ing on numerous punches. At gave Conover a bloody nose and ever, because Rogari was still land combinations as Welte was which led to a mostly defensive the end of the round, however, almost knocked her backwards. landing more punches and dic­off-balance. round from Saxer. Skinner landed a solid one-two The fight had to be paused brief-tating the fight. 
In the second round, Sevova Saxer started off the third by combination that could have ly to see to Conover. Conover Again, Walsh built upon the continued with the same quick reducing the distance between been promising for her heading showed impressive resilience success of her previous round in dodges and punches. Despite the fighters and limiting Hef-into the third round. after the break, but White re-the third, getting in some solid Welte’s guard, Sevova broke fron’s speed. But as Saxer start-Skinner’s final two punches gained control again and had hits, but it was still not enough through and kept Welte from ed to tire out late in the match, did not develop into a comeback Conover’s nose bloodied again to overthrow Rogari. establishing any rhythm. Heffron kept up her energy and though, as Young was again in by the end of the second round. Rogari maintained command 
With the first two rounds in finished with good combina-control at the start of the third. There was a long break to and finished strong, giving her Sevova’s favor, the third round tions, including a big punch at Both fighters seemed to be tir-tend to Conover’s nose but once the unanimous victory.       seemed somewhat more even. the last bell. ing at the end of the fight and under control the third round The two boxers traded a few se-Heffron’s success with speed were trading blows. It was not commenced. Again White Contact Isaac Lorton at  ries in a more reserved round. led to a unanimous decision in enough for Skinner though, as bloodied Conover with power-ilorton@nd.edu 
Sevova’s energy and quick-her favor. Young won in a unanimous de-ful punches, causing another ness led to her victory by a cision. short break. Conover bravely unanimous decision. Contact Ernst Cleofe at  kept fighting hard, but after the By MIKE MONACO 
Kat “Astrophe” Leach def. ecleofe@nd.edu Katie “Girl Cry” Mayka def. break White, for the fourth and Sports Writer Dina “Is a Female Version of a Jessica “Fists of Fury” Free-last time, brought blood from Hustler” Montemarano man. Conover’s nose and the match Emily “Shake N Bake” Baker 
In a close fight and a battle of By ISAAC LORTON The opening had the fighters was called, giving White the def. Melinda “The Most Mali-captains, junior Leach defeated Sports Writer going back and forth, a trend victory. cious” Macia senior Montemarano with con-that would continue en route to Both boxers came out swing­sistency throughout the three Erin “Burn Baby” Byrne def. a narrow split decision victory Natty “Light on Her Feet’ Bal-ing to the start the match, but rounds. Courtney “Bury Her” Currier for senior Mayka. dasare def. Anna “The Maine-Baker would ultimately gain an 
After a quiet first half to the In yet another battle of cap-At first, sophomore Freeman Iac” Carmack edge and take the unanimous first round, Leach started to tains, senior Byrne defeated ju-had Mayka against the ropes, The first round was senior break through Montemarano’s nior Currier with an impressive but Mayka countered and did Baldasare’s, as she hit home on see BOUTS/page 14 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, November 11 , 2011 
Bouts 
continued from page 13 
decision victory. 
Baker, a sophomore from Breen Phillips, initially had the upper hand. Macia, a junior from Pasquerilla East, was on her heels off the bat, but she managed to block many of Bak­er’s best punches. There were no real lulls during the first round, and the first 90 seconds concluded with a back-and­forth exchange between the two women. 
Round two was much of the same: aggressive fighting in which neither boxer held any­thing back. Baker forced Macia to retreat for much of the round. 
All the aggressive fighting caught up to Baker and Macia as the match wore on. Toward the end of the third round, both boxers were noticeably fa­tigued. In the end, Baker won by unanimous decision. 
Carleigh “the Homing Pigeon” Moore def. Jen “KO” Coe 
In a matchup of experienced and skilled seniors, seniors Coe and Moore were neck-and-neck for most of the match. Both box­ers had great support in the audience, providing an intense atmosphere for the bout. 
The first round was remark­ably even; neither boxer man­aged to get in more than one or two solid punches in a row before the other countered with force. 
Round two began with both boxers aggressively throwing powerful punches. Neither held anything back. Moore connect­ed on the first big punch of the second frame, but Coe managed to evade Moore’s successive swings. 
There were no slow moments in the pressure-packed third round as both seniors looked to empty their tanks. As the box­ers tired, Moore managed to get some strong punches in. 
Moore won by split decision. 
Tegan Chapman def. Erin “Killer” Killmurray 
Chapman won by default, as Killmurray was unable to fight due to a potential concussion. 
Catherine “Dizzy” Gillespie def. Elizabeth “Dontcha Want Some” Moore 
This battle of juniors began in cat-and-mouse fashion, with both boxers waiting for the right moment to exploit the opposi­tion. Moore and Gillespie then alternated between connecting with jabs to the head and evad­ing one another’s punches. 
The two juniors continued to be patient in the second round, taking their time and being less aggressive than other boxers throughout the night. There was no all-out swinging as nei­ther boxer wanted to be left sus­ceptible to counters. 
The atmosphere changed in the final round though, as both Moore and Gillespie came out with a newfound ferocious­ness. Gillespie didn’t seem to be fatigued as she got in a slew of solid punches on Moore. To­wards the end of the round, Moore managed to land some jabs, but it was not enough as Gillespie won by split decision. 
Cristina “Triple X” Couri def. Karina “Matadomer” Lizzi 
The match began with both boxers channeling their inten­sity into non-stop punches. Se­nior Lizzi threw some jabs that junior Couri blocked well. Couri then countered and connected with some headshots to close out the first round. 
Couri separated herself in the second stanza as she threw some potent hooks. The Mc-Glinn junior then mixed it up and utilized an equally effective jab. Couri then got Lizzi on the ropes, where she continued to gain the upper hand. Both box­ers tired toward the end of the round. 
Lizzi came out aggressively to start the final round. She con­nected multiple times with jabs to the head. However, Couri stood strong and dished out some strong shots of her own. The two women were exhaust­ed towards the end of a hard-fought match. 
Couri ended up winning by unanimous decision. 
Caroline “Balinese Blackout” Walsh def. Kara “NO FEAR” Scheer 
The experience of both se­niors was evident from the first bell in Sheer’s unanimous deci­sion victory. 
Sheer and Walsh looked tech­nically sound, agile and patient. The first round began unevent­fully, with both boxers dodg­ing punches well. Walsh then connected on some mammoth punches as the first 90 seconds came to a close. 
Walsh continued the on­slaught in round two, but she altered her approach and be­gan utilizing the hook. Sheer certainly was not giving up, and she came back strong with a combination of punches that forced Walsh to retreat. As the seniors fatigued in the middle frame, they grew content to slow down and to be patient with their punches. 
Sheer held nothing back in the final round, but Walsh pa­tiently waited for opportuni­ties to counter. Walsh was still punching hard as the clock ran down, as she went on to win by unanimous decision. 
Contact Mike Monaco at  jmonaco@nd.edu 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Kaitlyn “The Bulldozer” Cole 


def. MJ “Dr. Evil” Durkin 
In the last fight of the night, junior Cole beat fellow junior and captain Durkin in an excit­ing contest. 
In first round, Cole landed a number of shots to Durkin’s body and face. Durkin respond­ed, using her long reach to her advantage. Cole continued to be aggressive and knocked Durkin down at the end of the round. 
In the second, Cole continued to charge in despite Durkin’s length, allowing her to land punches. Cole’s attack proved too much, stunning Durkin and tiring her out with body shots. 

In the final round, Durkin was nearly knocked down again, but stayed tough and responded with her own series of punches. The late rally wasn’t enough, though, as Cole won by unani­mous decision. 
Contact Brendan Bell at  bbell2@nd.edu 
Parity 
continued from page 20 
sadors for a sport quickly growing in popularity. 
Lady Vols coach Pat Sum-mitt and Huskies coach Geno Auriemma still patrol the sidelines, but Parker and Moore have taken to the WNBA. From 2006 to 2011, the two domi­nated the game from their play on the court to their influence on aspiring female athletes. Candace could dunk, and Maya could drain a shot from anywhere on the floor. They brought women’s basketball into the spotlight and became household names in the pro­cess. 
But NCAA women’s basket­ball has changed dramatically in the last five years from an ESPN-subsidized sport into one of the NCAA’s most marketable institutions. In other words, it’s become profitable. 
And for the first time, the sport is tasked with sustain­ing itself without a marketable superstar. 
Parker took on that respon­sibility, bringing two titles to Tennessee before handing it off in 2008 to Moore, who filled in seamlessly at Connecticut and won two of her own. 
When Notre Dame upset the Huskies in the semifinals of the NCAA tournament last season, many were quick to crown then-sophomore guard Skylar Diggins as the natural succes­sor to Moore. Diggins scored 28 points and dished six assists as the Irish advanced to the championship game. 
She can drive in the lane, turn the corner, shoot the lights out, pass the ball on a dime and stick a defender. More importantly, just like Candace and Maya, Skylar can take a team on her back through sheer will. 
But making her into another “face of the game” is not what the sport needs right now. It needs parity. 
It started with an underdog like Texas A&M winning the title last season, and the 2011­2012 season would mark only the second time since 1993­1994 that neither Connecticut nor Tennessee won the national title when they didn’t win it the year before. I think it’s safe to assume no team is winning 90 games in a row again. 
Diggins is an unselfish star on a team that needs a willing distributor. Asking her to carry the load alone for the sake of television ratings compromises a Notre Dame team that has a pure scorer in senior Natalie Novosel and a dominating post presence in fifth-year forward Devereaux Peters. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw doesn’t let anything dictate how she runs her team except her own game plan, but even she will have to manage the distractions and media atten­tion a pure talent like Skylar brings. Ruth Riley was a star in her own right, but she played in an environment in 2001 that simply did not feature the ex­pectations and attention it now has today. 
This Notre Dame team is good, and all but one starter return from the same squad that fell short of a national title by just six points. The expecta­tions couldn’t be higher. 
Winning a championship has and always will be the goal with McGraw at the helm. But when the Irish kick off the sea­son against Akron tonight, they do so under a much broader mandate: bringing parity to women’s basketball. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish set to compete in season-ending invite 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a strong show­ing at home, the Irish will at­tempt to end their fall season on a high note today as Notre Dame’s underclassmen com­pete in the Lakewood Ranch Invitational in Lakewood Ranch, Fla. 
Sophomore Britney Sand­ers said she hopes her team will use this experience to work on its concentration heading into the off-season. 
“I think our team as a whole is doing really well but we still need to work on our concentration,” Sanders said. “Some of us tend to lose our focus when we’re winning and end up making the match closer than it needs to be.” 
Sophomore Julie Sabacins­ki said she is looking forward to using this tournament to play as many different op­ponents as possible to help her improve. As a whole, the Irish have improved steadily this off-season and have ex­amined the aspects of their game that need improvement leading into the spring tour­naments. 
“I would like to improve my overall game,” Sabacin­ski said. “I want to use this opportunity to get as many matches as I can.” 

This tournament will mark the third time in the fall sea­son when the underclass­men attend a tournament without their senior captains Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews. Both Sanders and Sabacinski said that in the absence of official leader­ship, everyone needs to step up and become a leader. 
“We all play the captain role,” Sanders said. “Since we don’t have a captain or up­perclassmen here, we make our decisions together.” 
Sanders said she and her teammates rely on one an­other for encouragement to play to the best of their abili­ties. 
“We all expect each other to play every match like it was our last,” Sanders said. “We’re a team. It’s not just about one person performing well, it’ s about all of us put­ting everything on the line.” 
Notre Dame will hit the courts at the Lakewood Ranch Invitational today in Lakewood Ranch, Fla. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

ND to open tourney at Illinois 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After receiving an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament, the defending national champi­ons will hit the road to take on No. 20 Illinois in the first round Sunday. 
A 2-1 loss to Louisville in the Big East semifinals on Nov. 4 left Notre Dame (10-7-3, 6-3-2 Big East) hoping for a chance to repeat its journey toward a national title. The Irish join three other Big East schools in the program’s 19th consecutive trip to the tournament. 
Just a year ago, the Irish made a deep run in the tourna­ment and defeated North Caro­lina and Oklahoma State in the third round and quarterfinals, respectively. Notre Dame’s magical postseason included a win over Ohio State and a hard-fought victory against Stanford in the College Cup. 
Irish senior forward and co-captain Melissa Henderson said the upperclassmen are excited to show the freshmen what it will take to win the program’s second national championship in as many years. 
“I definitely think [experi­ence] is a bonus for us upper­classmen, who have kind of been there, done that and been in that position before,” she said. “In a way, it keeps us a little more aware of what we’re about to go through. I think it’s just best that we can get our freshmen on the same page and get ready to go.” 
The Illini (16-4-2, 8-2-1 Big Ten) are coming off a Big Ten championship, which earned them an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. Illinois topped Penn State in overtime in the Big Ten title game and won its last three games in the conference tournament during the extra period. 

The Illini beat Louisville in overtime on Aug. 28, while the Cardinals defeated the Irish twice this season. 
Illinois sophomore midfield­er Vanessa DiBernardo has 17 goals on the season, eight of which were game-winning scores. Starting all of the Illini’s 22 games this season, senior midfielder Marissa Mykines is the second leading-scorer with eight goals. 
“Their system and forma­tion’s a little different than ours, but they’re solid all the way around,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “The good thing about it is they’re a team that’s going to play. They’re not an overly physical [team], and it’s not a very direct team. They’re a team that’s going to actually try to play the game, and that’s what we do, so it should be a re­ally, really good matchup.” 
Notre Dame’s defense was the primary area of concern earlier in the season, but the back line has allowed just five goals in its last nine games. The key to an Irish victory, Waldrum said, is eliminating big plays in dead-ball situations. 
“That’s kind of where we’ve struggled this year. We’ve got to be better at [defending dead-ball situations] in the NCAA tournament, or we’re not go­ing to last really long,” he said. “I think the run of play defen­sively, we were good. The team, in general, on set pieces we weren’t good, and that’s some­thing we’ve got to address.” 
Henderson said the team re­lies on its experience to elimi­nate the pressure involved in entering the tournament as the defending national champions. 

“I think that last year’s last year and this year’s a new year,” she said. “I think we are all just going to have fun getting another national championship and just celebrating with all the freshmen who haven’t had that experience yet. I think we’re more excited to just play our best and do our best this year.” 
Notre Dame defeated Illinois 2-0 in the second round of the 2007 NCAA tournament, the only other time the two schools have met on the soccer field. 
The Irish have advanced at least to the second round of the NCAA tournament every year since 1993. With a win, Notre Dame will face either Arkan­sas-Pine Bluff or Oklahoma State. 
Waldrum said the Irish are confident a trip to Kennesaw, Ga., the site of the College Cup, is ahead of them. 
“We’ve had two of our best practices since preseason this week. That’s what you want come tournament time,” he said. “It kind of does remind me a little bit of what went on last year when we lost in the [Big East] quarterfinals to UConn, and we got ready for the tournament and had two great weeks of practice. I think no other team’s made a run on the road like we did last year, so you hope that helps you this year.” 
Notre Dame will face the Il­lini at Illinois Soccer Stadium on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Notre Dame to race at Great Lakes Regional 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
After a two-week break follow­ing the Big East Championships, Notre Dame will return to the course for this weekend’s NCAA Great Lakes Regional. 
The Great Lakes Regional, a precursor to the NCAA Champi­onships, features schools from Ohio, Indiana, Michigan and Wis­consin with the top two teams on both the men’s and women’s sides advancing to the national meet. The remaining teams will hope for one of the NCAA’s 13 at-large bids to the championship meet. 
The Irish men will search for its first Great Lakes Regional victory since 2001, while the women will aim to take their second in three years. 
Sophomore Martin Grady has paced the Irish this year, culmi­nating with an All-Big East per­formance at the Big East Champi­onships on Oct. 29. Junior Jeremy Rae also earned All-Big East hon­ors in the race. Despite 10th and 12th place finishes from Grady and Rae, respectively, the Irish placed sixth in the conference meet. 
“It would be pretty tough to up­set Wisconsin or Indiana because they’re two of the more estab­lished teams,” Grady said. “It’s go­ing to be a big meet between us, Michigan and Ohio State. If we finish third or fourth, we’ll basi­cally be locked in for nationals.” 
Seniors Jordan Carlson, Kelly Lynch and Joe Miller, junior J.P. Malette and sophomores Walter Schafer and DJ Thornton are ex­pected to join Grady and Rae. 
“If five guys have a good race, we can finish in the top four,” Grady said. “If [Rae] and I can es­tablish ourselves in the top group, it’ll be huge for our team.” 
Notre Dame — the No. 5-ranked team in the region — will be met by stiff competition in Toledo, Ohio. Four ranked teams, includ­ing top-ranked Wisconsin and No. 7 Indiana, sit ahead of the Irish in the rankings. 
“The competition in the previ­ous races will definitely help us for this meet,” Grady said. 

The No. 24 Irish women’s squad, ranked third in the Great Lakes Region, is anchored by ju­nior Jessica Rydberg. She has led the team in every race in which she has participated. 
“We have a really good chance to win it if we race well,” Rydberg said. 
Notre Dame finished sixth last time in the Big East Champion­ships, while Rydberg finished 18th, narrowly missing All-Big East honors. She said she has her goals set higher this time around. 
“I want to place in the top five,” Rydberg said. “But most impor­tantly, I want to run to my full po­tential to help the team.” 
Seniors Molly Hirt and Rachel Velarde, junior Rebecca Tracy, sophomores Alexa Aragon, Kelly Curran and McKinzie Schulz and freshman Gabby Gonzales will join Rydberg at the meet. 
“We need to find each other early in the race and run as a pack,” Rydberg said. 
The Irish will meet two other ranked opponents at the meet — No. 12 Michigan State and No. 15 Michigan. But this field, compared to those at the Notre Dame Invita­tional and the Wisconsin adidas Invitational, seems tame. The Notre Dame Invitational featured six ranked women’s teams, while the Wisconsin adidas Invitational featured 18. 
“This meet will probably be less competitive than [the] Big East [Championships] or [the] Wiscon­sin [adidas Invitational],” Rydberg said. “It will be a lot easier to find each other with a smaller field.” 
Rydberg said the smaller field and lesser competition have the Irish feeling good about this weekend. 
“We have a lot of confidence,” Rydberg said. “Our workouts have been going well and we’ve been running well as a pack in prac­tice.” 
The men’s 10-kilometer race begins at 12 p.m. Saturday, while the women’s six-kilometer race starts at 1:15 p.m. Both races will take place in Toledo, Ohio. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at  mdefrank@nd.edu 


page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, November 11 , 2011 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Chaos, Weasels to square off 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
With a trip to the Stadium on the line, No. 1 Cavanaugh will face No. 5 Pasquerilla West in a rematch of a Blue Division ri­valry. 
Cavanaugh (7-0) will try to stay undefeated, while Pasque­rilla West (5-2) will attempt to use its momentum from last week’s win to pull off another upset. 
Strong defensive play has been pivotal to Cavanaugh’s success. Throughout the sea­son, the Chaos have shut down opposing offenses, allowing only nine points heading into the playoffs. Senior captain Maggie Fahrenbach said she is confident in the defense’s abili­ty to perform heading into Sun­day’s contest. 
“Last weekend, our defense showed up as always and played really well,” Fahrenbach said. “We feel great about [how it is] playing.” 
In last week’s18-6 victory over Lyons in the first round of the playoffs, the Chaos were sharp in all facets of the game. Senior quarterback Rebecca Cink led the way, throwing three touchdown passes to seal the victory. 
“Our offense also did a lot of good things last week,” Fahren­bach said. “[Cink] is always go­ing to do something great.” 
Cavanaugh faces a familiar opponent Sunday, having played Pasquerilla West earlier in the year. In the second week of the season, the Chaos shut out the Purple Weasels, 12-0. Fahren­bach hopes the same fate will unfold this weekend. 
“We want to focus on how we played that game and imple­ment the things we did right,” Fahrenbach said. “If we can do that, I think we’ll be in good shape.” 
For Pasquerilla West, the playoffs represent another op­portunity to get even with Cava­naugh and reach the champion­ship game for the third straight year. Senior captain Alison Lin­deen says that the team is more prepared this time around, having changed its offensive and defensive schemes. 
“Our offense has completely changed,” Lindeen said. “[Ju­nior] quarterback Kirsten Dan­na and [sophomore] receiver Rachel Rogers are sure to make some big plays on offense this weekend.” 
Pasquerilla West won a thrilling 13-12 overtime game in the quarterfinals last week­end. The Purple Weasels tied the game at six in the closing minutes, then managed to edge past Welsh Family in overtime. Lindeen said the team hopes it can carry last week’s energy into the semifinal game Sunday. 
“We had an exciting first-round win that pumped us up,” Lindeen said. “We played [Cava­naugh] already, but now we’re more focused to perform.” 
Pasquerilla West’s defense is better prepared to respond to Cavanaugh’s attack, Lindeen said. 
“We’re coming up with some different things to adjust,” Lin­deen said. “Our defensive line will really push hard to contain the quarterback.” 
Cavanaugh and Pasquerilla West will face off at 7:30 p.m. Sunday at the LaBar Fields. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 


McGlinn vs. Howard 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
After upsetting higher-ranked seeds, No. 6 McGlinn and No. 7 Howard will face off in Sunday’s semifinal looking to keep the momentum rolling en route to the championship game. 
Both teams came into the first week of playoffs as underdogs but knocked two favorites out of their respective playoff brack­ets. 
McGlinn (5-2) shut out No. 3 Farley 20-0 with shutdown defense and dominant play from senior quarterback Lau­ren Miller. Not to be outshined, Howard (3-4) pulled out a 13-6 win against a previously unde­feated No. 2 Ryan. 
Disregarding the playoff seeding, the Shamrocks came into the playoffs focused on playing their style of play with confidence, Miller said. 
“I think that win was because we played with a lot of confi­dence and we played together,” she said. “We weren’t really concerned with what the seeds were.” 
Despite the impressive play on both sides of the ball, Mill­er said the Shamrocks want to continue improving to ensure a win. 
“We can always be more ef­fective on offense by improving our game plan and getting on the same page,” Miller said. 
Howard senior captain Jenny Gassner said the Ducks’ upset victory came as a surprise for a team that scrapped its way into the playoffs. 
“We were a little intimidated and Ryan was undefeated, but we knew we were going to face a tough team,” she said. “But I think it was all about the atti­tude we had because we knew it was our last chance.” 
With the playoff bracket pit­ting the Ducks against an un­defeated team, the chances of returning to the Stadium for a third consecutive year seemed bleak. But the win gave Howard momentum moving forward, Gassner said. 
“I think it was such a big push for us,” Gassner said. “A lot of us were at a breaking point, but then we beat a team that we weren’t supposed to beat and it’s going to take us further into the playoffs.” 
For both teams, defense will be the focal point this week­end. Miller said McGlinn hopes to use its stringent defense to set up good situations for its of­fense. 
“I really think the key is if the defense plays up to its po­tential,” Miller said. “If we get consistent play from [defend­ers], then the offense can take advantage of their good play.” 
Meanwhile, Gassner said Howard wants to keep the same attitude that led them to a win last week. 
“Our defense is really good at shutting down other offenses, so we just need to play with the same intensity and even amp that up to have a good game,” she said. 
McGlinn and Howard will each try keep their momentum going in their semifinal match-up at 2 p.m. on Sunday at LaBar Fields with the championship game in sight. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
five scorers from last year. With this discrepancy, Brey said he has yet to see how his full team plays as a unit in-game, as fifth-year senior forward Scott Martin missed both of Notre Dame’s exhibi­tion games due to an ankle injury. 
“We were talking as a staff and someone asked, ‘How do you like your team?’ and I Xavier and Stonehill. 

In its most recent exhibition game against Stonehill, Notre Dame shot 57.6 percent from the field and combined for 26 total assists, led by sophomore guard Jerian Grant’s nine. De­spite missing out on the start­ing lineup due to an academic infraction, junior forward Jack Cooley combined for 12 points and nine rebounds, while sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich added 15 points. 
“I thought guys got more comfortable [Monday against Stonehill],” Brey said. [There 
replied, ‘I don’t think we know them yet,’” the 2010­2011 Big East coach of the year said follow­ing a 92-70 exhibition win over 
“We were talking as a staff and someone asked, “How do you like your team?’ and I replied, ‘I don’t think we know them yet.” 
Mike Brey Irish coach 

was] a better comfort level from one ex­hibition to the next. So I’ve seen some things that we can work on before it re­ally comes at us fast. I feel better coming 
Stonehill on Monday. 
Although Martin is expected to play in the home opener, Notre Dame will replace four starters from last year’s squad, which finished the regular season ranked fifth in the AP poll. But Brey said he expects Martin to take an elevated, more aggres­sive role this season, regard­less of whether Abromaitis is in the lineup. 
“Martin needs to be more ag­gressive even with [Abromai­tis] out there this year in the big picture,” Brey said. “But also with [Abromaitis] out, [Martin] lets the game come to him and he knows how to play. He can’t turn anything down and he anchors you a little bit. He can guard big guys and has really good body position.” 
Meanwhile, the Irish cruised to victory in both of their pre­season contests, scoring 90 or more points against both St. 

into this game 
with guys 
like [junior guard Joey] Brooks, Grant and Dragicevich. They are more comfortable. I have been hap­py with [Cooley] too.” 
Mississippi Valley State also won both of its exhibitions, in­cluding a 116-76 victory over Victory University on Nov. 4. Even though Mississippi Valley State lost all-conference guard and top scorer D’Angelo Jack­son to graduation, the Delta Devils are projected to finish second in the Southwestern Athletic Conference this sea­son led by all-conference se­nior center Paul Crosby. 
The Irish will try to defend their 19-game home winning streak against the Delta Devils in the regular season opener on Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Undefeated Siegfried to take on No. 5 Dillon in semis 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
With a combined one loss be­tween the two teams, top-seeded Siegfried and fifth-seeded Dil­lon are no strangers to winning. But one of them will face defeat in a semifinal game that pits this year’s playoff favorite against last year’s runner-up. 
Siegfried (5-0) is hoping to add to its rich interhall history with a win Sunday. The Ramblers won championships in 2008 and 2009, before Dillon knocked them out of the playoffs in the semifinals last season. 
But Siegfried senior captain and linebacker John Aversa said his team is confident things will be different this year. 
“I think we’re going to be a little sharper,” he said. “If we can cor­rect our focus, I like our odds.” 
Aversa said Siegfried knows the challenges Dillon (4-1) will bring and believes his team is prepared. 
“We expect them to give us a lot of looks as far as blitzes,” Aversa said. “I know they can air it out and run the ball, as well. They have the total package, and we’re going to have to play our best game of the year to beat them.” 
Aversa said he expects the Sieg­fried offensive line and defense to be crucial to the Ramblers’ suc­cess. The offensive line powered last week’s 77-yard fourth quar­ter game-winning drive in a 14-7 victory over Stanford. 
“Our offensive line is [a] key to our team,” Aversa said. “I think we’re pretty hard to beat if our offensive line is playing well. Our defense is a pretty big pretty strength as well.” 
The Siegfried defense has yet to allow more than seven points in a game this season and hopes to continue that effort against Dil­lon. 
Dillon’s defense has also been strong throughout the year. The Big Red have shut out their op­ponent in four of their five games. 
“We’re expecting a defensive game,” Dillon junior captain and cornerback Will Salvi said. “We need to make sure we play sharp on defense to match them.” 
But Dillon will also have to per­form well on offense to win, an area in which it struggled in its 10-0 win over Knott last week. 
“I think we have to play better on offense,” Salvi said. “We’ve played really well on defense, but we’ll need to be balanced against Siegfried.” 
Despite Siegfried’s No. 1 seed and perfect record, Salvi says the Big Red are not intimidated by the Ramblers. 
“We feel like we can beat any­one,” Salvi said. “It doesn’t matter who we play. We just have to win until we make it to the champion­ship.” 
Salvi also said the Big Red are relishing their role as an under­dog. 
“There’s something about be­ing an underdog that gives you an edge,” Salvi said. “Everyone thinks that Siegfried is the best team, but we still need to prove to everyone that we’re the best team.” 
Dillon will take on the Ram­blers at LaBar Fields on Sunday at 1 p.m. for a chance to play in the Notre Dame Stadium champi­onship. 
Contact Jonothan Warren at  jwarren3@nd.edu 
Sorin vs. Alumni 
By ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writer 
In a rematch of one of last year’s semifinal games, No. 7 Alumni will take on No. 3 Sorin on Sun­day, as they compete for a spot in the championship game. 
The defending champion So­rin (4-0-1) is looking for a repeat result of its 2010 postseason. Meanwhile, Alumni (3-2) kept last year’s defeat in the back of its mind the entire regular season and is ready to extract revenge, Alumni senior captain and run­ning back Dan Dansdill said. 
“We played Sorin in the semifi­nals last year and lost 7-6,” Dan­sdill said. “So we have been here before and hopefully we can win this time. Our only goal is to win. Sometimes you have to win ugly. We don’t care how we have to do it.” 
Alumni is coming off a 6-0 up­set over previously undefeated Keenan in the first round of the playoffs, a game in which the Alumni defense shined. Dansdill said the Dawgs know that to win their upcoming game, they will need to play well from start to fin­ish. 
“At the end of the day, winning is the only thing that matters,” Dansdill said. “We have had rough patches but now we feel that we can put everything together and play a full four quarters.” 
The Otters also had an intense first round matchup, edging Car­roll 10-7 thanks in large part to a 55-yard touchdown pass from ju­nior captain and quarterback Ted Spinelli to senior receiver Brett Leahy. Although this matchup is similar to 2010, Spinelli suggest­ed this year might be different. 
“We practiced more last year,” Spinelli said. “We have developed a strict study policy over the past few weeks. Practice hours have been dedicated to keeping our GPAs up rather than developing our talent. As a result, we figure on making the ‘Hail Mary’ a key part of our offense.” 


Sorin will rely heavily on Leahy this Sunday and Alumni will look to sophomore receiver Jeff Krae­mer and senior safety Joe Amore­sano for leadership as both teams try to earn a spot in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Sorin will take on Alumni at 2 
p.m. at LaBar Fields with a place in the championship game on the line. 
Contact Ally Darragh at  adarra01@saintmarys.edu 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, November 11 , 2011 
Mallory 
continued from page 20 
ally well,” she said. “[Thurs­day was] her first day out al­lowed to go full court, and she said she felt pretty good before practice, so we’ll see how she feels [Friday]. I think we’re go­ing to get a few minutes out of her.” 
A leader on and off the court, McGraw said Mallory’s pres­ence is a big difference-maker. 
“It’s just huge,” she said. “It settles us down, I think it puts us in a little better rhythm and allows us to start planning for how we’re really going to play at the beginning of the game.” 
The Mallory factor will be particularly crucial after a rocky start against Windsor. With early minutes filled with missed shots and turnovers from the Irish, McGraw admit­ted that it took Notre Dame some time to get going. 
“I think that we were try­ing too hard initially to get a big lead in the first play of the game,” McGraw said. “I thought we settled down.” 
Aside from first-game ner­vousness, the 52-point victory revealed a few other areas for improvement for the Irish. In a 52-point win over Windsor, the Irish bested the Lancers by just one defensive rebound, 22-21. Particularly with such a guard-heavy squad, McGraw emphasized the importance of improvement on the boards. 
“We really think [senior guard] Natalie Novosel and [sophomore guard] Kayla Mc­Bride should be, after [fifth­year forward] Deveraux [Peters], our next leading re­bounders,” she said. “We’re really expecting them to re­bound a lot from the guard spot. If we’re going to play four guards, they have to be able to do that. And then [freshman forward] Marquisha Wright … She has to be able to rebound for us too.” 
McGraw also cited sopho­more forward Ariel Braker as a potential help to the Irish on the rebounding front, espe­cially with sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa currently out with injury. 
“It’s really important for 
Alaska 
continued from page 20 
as the clear No. 1 goaltender is also a new development. While Johnson entered the year as the starter, a broader gap has grown in recent weeks between the junior and sophomore back­up Steven Summerhays. 
“I’ve been mostly just focusing on worrying about one shot at a time,” Johnson said. “I’m trying to go out there and not think at all, just going out and playing and reacting … [The team gave] me a lot of confidence with the way they’re playing defense right now.” 
The Nanooks (3-5-2, 0-4-2-0) enter the contest led in scoring by junior center Nik Yaremchuk and sophomore left wing Colton [Braker] to come in and give us some defensive rebounding, block some shots and help us in the press,” she said. “I think that’s something we really need right now with [Achonwa] out. We don’t have the post pres­ence that we need, and it’s an opportunity for her right now to really step up and give us some good minutes.” 
Akron will present a strong defensive test for Notre Dame in junior forward Rachel Tec­ca. Though the Zips enter the 2011-2012 season having lost the leading scorer in program history in Kara Murphy, they return four starters and six ex­perienced reserves. Top among those returnees is Tecca, a first-team All-MAC selection in both the 2010-2011 season and the 2011-2012 preseason. 
“They’ve got a really good player . Tecca,” McGraw said. “She was preseason first team in the MAC, a really good scor­er. She’s like a guard in a 6’1, 6’2 body. She’s quick off the dribble, she can shoot it, she can drive it, she can score on the block, she’s a really good rebounder. She’s a tough defen­sive match up for us.” 
Another challenge will be the WNIT tournament set-up, with games on both Friday and Sun­day. McGraw said this quick turnaround is a good preview of the NCAA tournament. 
“Well this is like an NCAA tournament for us,” she said. “We’ve got the Friday-Sunday look, and whether we win or lose, we come back and play on Sunday, so it’s a great opportu­nity for us to really get focused on what are we going to do on Saturday, how we’re going to recover after the game Friday night.” 
After just one exhibition game followed by nine days of practice, McGraw said her team is ready to kick off its regular season. 
“I think we’re anxious for a game,” she said. “I think we look pretty good in practice, but I think we’re ready for some outside competition.” 
The Irish will take on Akron in the first round of the WNIT Friday at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
Beck, who have seven points apiece. Though Alaska has not won in its last six games and is on a three-game losing streak, Johnson said the Irish are pre­pared for a worthy opponent. 
“[Alaska is] a very good team,” Johnson said. “They play very good defense and their power play is pretty solid, as well. They’ve got guys that can skate and they work really hard and it’s going to be another bat­tle this week, much like the last two weeks have been.” 
The Irish and Nanooks face off at the Compton Family Ice Arena for a two-game series this weekend. Tonight’s game begins at 7:05 p.m. and the puck-drop Saturday is sched­uled for 5:05 p.m.    
Contact Sam Gans at  sgans@nd.edu 
a chance to compete in the Big 
Unsure 
East. 

Martin needs to play up to his continued from page 20 potential. In Notre Dame’s 83-77 overtime loss to Louisville in 
The Irish were unsure of last year’s Big East tournament the exact makeup of last year’s semifinals, he finished with 21 squad, but were sure of two points and eight rebounds. He things . they had experience and has the potential to be a legiti­they had height. All five start-mate second option for Notre ers for Notre Dame last season Dame, but certainly has not were either seniors or fifth-year shown the ability to do it consis­seniors, and four of the five were tently. The first four games this 6-foot-8. year without Abromaitis are his 
This season has some similar-chance to gain confidence and ities, but also some glaring dif-become the player the Irish need ferences, and those differences him to be if they are going to be are more than a little worrisome successful. for a team that finished last Cooley needs to give the season No. 2 in the Big East. Irish a combined 20 points and 
Notre  rebounds per  
Dame no  game this sea- 
longer has  son, which will  
experience. Fifth-year Tim Abro­maitis and senior Scott  “This season has some similarities, but also some glaring differences, and those differences  be difficult to do since he can only play about 13 minutes per half. He will  
Martin (who,  are more than a litter  also need to  
because of injuries, has only played one  worrisome for a team that finished last season No. 2 in the Big East.”  avoid foul trou­ble, since he is Notre Dame’s only legitimate  

full season in an Irish uniform himself) are the only two returning starters, and freshman Eric Atkins and junior Jack Cooley are the only other two players who played any significant time for last year’s squad. 
Notre Dame not only does not know for sure if Abromaitis or someone else will step up and lead the team in scoring — it does not even know, with the regular season just one day away, who will consistently be the fifth starter. And that is a problem. 
Abromaitis needs to play like one of the top-50 players in the country, as he has been named this preseason. He needs to replace the productivity of Hansbrough for the Irish to have inside presence 
on defense. 
Cooley has 
shown sparks of dominance, but those sparks will need to become more con­sistent this season. 
Atkins needs to be the on the court leader for Notre Dame this season, but he also needs to score. Last year, he filled his role as game manager quite well, and that will need to continue. But Notre Dame’s offense is not as dynamic this season, and Atkins will need to penetrate the lane, draw fouls and score points. Again, he has the capability, but he needs to translate that potential into actual results. 
Freshman Pat Connaughton needs to be the fifth starter. He is one of the most athletic play­ers on the roster, something Notre Dame will need against a very athletic Big East. He shoots the ball well and, more importantly, wants the ball in his hands. 
Sophomore Alex Dragicev­ich needs to play a significant amount. He may be Notre Dame’s fifth best offensive threat, looks comfortable with the ball in his hands, can shoot from the outside and is not afraid to take the ball to the basket. He may be a defensive liability, but the Irish are going to struggle on defense anyway so they are going to need all the offense they can get. 

Sophomore Jerian Grant and junior Joey Brooks need to im­prove. They both look tentative with the ball in their hands and unconfident when they shoot. Grant is a good passer, but the Irish already have a game manager in Atkins. Brooks is solid on defense, but if he cannot produce offensively, he cannot be an integral part of the team. 
All of these things need to happen if Notre Dame is going to compete in the Big East and earn a trip to the NCAA tourna­ment. They are all possible. The question is how likely are they? 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER AND KELLy LyNCH JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, November 11, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Identity crisis 
Brey looks to replace 


Challenges abound in top scorers in debut 
year full of unknowns 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 

The Irish entered last season unsure — unsure of who would At the end of his winningest 
lead the team in scoring, unsure season at Notre Dame to date, 
of who would come off the bench. Irish coach Mike Brey knew 
But most of he would lose his top scorer in 
all, Notre Big East Player of the Year Ben 
Dame was Hansbrough. But the AP Coach 
unsure how of the Year unexpectedly lost his 
it would No. 2 scorer from last season to 
respond to suspension — for the first four 
losing its best games — and now has to make 
player, Luke do without fifth-year forward 
Harangody, Tim Abromaitis as the Irish 
and its on open the regular season against 
and off the Mississippi Valley State at the 
court leader, Purcell Pavilion on Saturday. 
Tory Jack-Abromaitis, who averaged 
son. 
15.4 points and 6.1 rebounds 

Enter Ben per game last year, will serve 
Hansbrough, the first of his four-game sus­
who stepped pension for violating an NCAA 
in to fill both roles on his way eligibility rule and leave the 
to Big East Player of the Year 
ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

Irish without four of their top honors. 
Irish junior forward Jack Cooley, left, and sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich, center, defend the see BREY/page 16 hoop during Notre Dame’s 92-70 exhibition win over Stonehill on Nov. 7 at the Purcell Pavilion. see UNSURE/page 18 

HOCKEY 

Notre Dame to open homestand with series against Alaska 
By SAM GANS building with a 5-2 victory over The Irish will also be look-ously wanted to get back at it said Notre Dame is not particu-Sports Writer RPI on Oct. 21. ing to get their first win in this week and have a good per-larly concerned with the lack of 
“We’re all excited [about play-three games after a pair of formance throughout the week pucks in the net. 
After two straight weekends ing at home again],” Irish soph-ties at Northern Michigan last [in practice] so we could have a “Northern’s a good team and on the road, the No. 7 Irish re-omore center Anders Lee said. weekend, results that Irish ju-good performance on Friday to Ellingson played really well turn to the friendly confines of “I think the fans are, too, [and] nior goaltender Mike Johnson redeem our weekend.” both nights,” Lee said. “We’re the Compton Family Ice Arena the community. It will be fun said were frustrating for Notre Though the Irish could not get getting the opportunities and for a two-game series with to get back here at home and Dame. a victory, they did earn a lot of the bounces — sometimes they Alaska this weekend. play only our second game here “We’re not satisfied from last scoring chances in Saturday’s don’t go in. This weekend, hope-
Notre Dame (5-2-2, 3-1-2-in the new arena, so we’re real weekend,” Johnson said. “It’s game. They peppered Wildcat fully those will go our way.” 0 CCHA) is looking forward excited about that and Alaska’s disappointing to go on the road senior goaltender Reid Elling-The emergence of Johnson to playing its first series in its a good team. It will be a fun and play two pretty good games son with 45 shots, but only got new home, after debuting in the weekend.” and not get a win. So we obvi-one past him. However, Lee see ALASKA/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish could bring much-needed parity 
Neither Maya Moore nor Candace Parker play college basketball. Let’s all take a sigh of relief. 
In a four-year period from 2007 to 2010, Con­necticut and Tennessee claimed two national titles behind two of the game’s most dominant athletes and two of its most ac­complished coaches. From 2006 to 2011, Moore and Parker became household names and ambas­
see PARITY/page 14 


Sky is the limit 

No. 2 ND to welcome Akron in opener 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 

The No. 2 Irish are set to open a difficult regular season schedule as they host Akron in the first round of the Preseason Women’s National Invitational tournament (WNIT) tonight. 
Notre Dame’s sole exhibi­tion game, an 83-31 victory over defending Canadian na­tional champion Windsor, saw both the triumphant return of sophomore guard Kayla Mc­Bride, who turned in a 21-point performance, and the untimely exit of senior guard and co-cap­tain Brittany Mallory due to a knee injury. Mallory appeared healthy in practice Thursday, and Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she is hopeful of Mallory’s full and speedy recovery. 
“[Mallory’s] been feeling re-
see MALLORY/page 18 






