the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Revueadjustscontentaftercomplaints 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
After the Student Activities Office (SAO) received com­plaints about the content of Thursday and Friday’s Keenan Revue performances, the audience at Saturday night’s third and final show saw an edited version of the Revue. 
Keenan residents began making adjustments to the Revue beginning at 5:30 p.m. Saturday for the 7 p.m. show, junior Chase Riddle, the Revue’s producer, said. These changes included the elimi­nation of seven skits and edits to several others, Riddle said. Five of the original 29 acts were not changed. 
“We feel that Friday night’s show was the Keenan Revue for 2011 and Saturday night’s show was just our attempt and SAO’s quick fix for some 
of the inconsistencies in Friday night’s show and some of the problems that were caused,” Riddle said. 
The Keenan Revue is an annual comedy show written, directed, produced and per­formed by residents of Keenan Hall. The 36th annu­al Revue was held Thursday, Friday and Saturday night in Stepan Center. The event moved to Stepan Center this year, after Saint Mary’s College’s declined to renew a contract with Keenan for the use of its O’Laughlin Auditorium. 

Peggy Hnatusko, director of Student Activities for Programming, said SAO received specific complaints Friday night about some of the show’s content. 
“Following the Friday night production of the Keenan Revue, a number of com ­plaints were received on behalf of individual students who felt the materials in the performance were personal attacks directed at students in the Notre Dame communi­
see REVUE/page 5 


Campaign infractions delayresults 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
Students cast their votes Monday for student body president and vice president, but they will not learn the results of the election until later in the week due to an alleged rule violated by one of the candidates. 
The results of Monday ’s election will not be released until the Student Union com­pletes its review of the alle­gation, Michael Thomas, vice president of elections for Judicial Council, said. 
“The election results will be announced as soon as the allegation process is com­plete,” Thomas said. “We are working to get that process done as soon as possible.” 
The Student Body Constitution mandates all information about allegations must remain confidential until the entire process of reviews and appeals in com­plete, Thomas said. The name of the candidates in question, the type of allega­
see ELECTION/page 4 

Observer elects new ed board 
Observer Staff Report 
Eight new editors will join The Observer’s Editorial Board for the 2011-12 year, incoming Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer announced Monday. 
Junior Caitlin Housley, sopho­mores Megan Doyle, Sam Stryker, Allan Joseph and Brandon Keelean and freshman Meghan Thomassen will join the Editorial Board in their new positions after Spring Break. 
Pat Coveney and Maija Gustin, both juniors, will take their new positions in the fall when they return from studying abroad. 
Doyle, a resident of Lyons Hall, and Stryker, of Knott Hall, 
see BOARD/page 4 




ND tuition to increase for 2011-12 
Observer Staff Report 
Undergraduate tuition, room and board and student charges will total $52,805 for the 2011-12 school year, according to a University press release. 
Notre Dame tuition will be 
3.8 percent higher than it was this school year — the first year tuition and room and board costs exceeded $50,000. Tuition also increased 3.8 per­cent for the 2010-11 school year, which was the lowest percentage increase since 1960. 
Tuition will cost $41,417 for the 2011-12 academic year, according to the press release, and room and board rates will average $11,388. 
In a letter to parents of cur­rent undergraduates about the tuition increase, University President Fr. John Jenkins 
see TUITION/page 4 

BRANDON KEELEAN I Observer Graphic 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Notre Dame works to be green page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Chicago shopping page 8  Bengal Bouts kicks off page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 15, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ONE WORD WOULD YOU USE TO D SCRIBE YOUR VAL NTIN ’S DAY?

THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Mike Gotimer Emily Schrank Kelsey Manning Melissa Flanagan Katie Heit 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 
Valentine’s kissing contest breaks record 
THAILAND — It was 
one long kiss — one world-breaking embrace for mankind. 
Seven determined cou­ples locked lips for more than 36 hours to cele ­brate Valentine's Day in this southern Thai beach resort town, a landmark “kissathon” that organiz­ers claim marked the longest recorded smooch in history. 
The previous record — 32 hours, 7 minutes and 14 seconds — was set in 2009 by a couple in Germany, according to Guinness World Records. 
Fourteen mostly Thai pairs entered the contest 
Ben McGowan  Lauren Fesler  Lindsey Smith  Luke Horvath  Seamus Doegan  
freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  
O’Neill  Pangborn  Welsh Family  O’Neill  Keough  

“Bitter or self-“Sunny” “Lovely” “Nostalgic” “Single” medicated” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

when it kicked off Sunday morning at 6 a.m. local time. By Monday after­noon, half were still puckering up on the white-marble corridor a shopping mall, where tourists gawked and smiled at the spectacle, snapping pictures with glowing mobile phones behind a red rope. 
Valentine’s paper heart mystery continues 
MONTPELIER — Vermont's state capital is aflutter in hearts again. 
In keeping with a mys­terious Valentine's Day tradition, an unknown person or people plaster sheets of paper with red hearts on them all over downtown offices, shops and buildings. 
The so -called Valentine's Bandit started the tradition in Montpelier in 2002. Each year, residents wake up to find the red hearts affixed to buildings, shop windows and other down­town fixtures. 
The “phantom” has his — or her — own Facebook page, dubbed the Montpelier Valentine Phantom Phan Page. 
Appreciative fans took to Facebook on Monday. One thanked the Phantom for making her drive to work wonderful. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Ethics Week 2011 lec­ture “Sustainability as the Central Theme of an Accounting Course” will take place tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. The lecture will be given by Bill Nichols, an Accountancy professor, and will take place at Giovanini Commons in Mendoza College of Business. 
The Edison Lecture “3D Models of Steady Crack Advance in Ductile Metals” will be given tomorrow by Robert H. Dodds, Jr., the M.T. Geoffrey Yeh Endowed Chair of Civil Engineering. The lec­ture will take place at 3:30 
p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
Lectio Live! will celebrate Black History Month tomor­row at 7:30 p.m. at Reckers Restaurant. The event will feature readings and music from first-year student per­formers. 
“Mind Relaxation,” the sec­ond part of the 2011 Wellness Series, will take place Wednesday at 12 p.m. Presented by Wendy Settle, staff psychologist, the program is designed to relax your mind and decrease stress. It will take place in gym 1 of the Joyce Center. Register on-line at http://www.nd.edu/~cwi/events .shtml 
Short story author Kelcey Parker will be giving a read­ing of her works Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Parker will read from her debut collection For Sale By Owner, a collection of stories about twisted domes­ticity. The reading will take place at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



40 36 HIGH 4948 3336
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


34 34 LOW 4425 2828 






Tuesday, February 15, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Resident Advisors to 

NotreDameworkstobegreen 
see changes in 2011 
tion the University has incor-

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s director of Sustainability discussed the University’s current efforts and future plans to be green 
during a lecture Monday to kick off the Mendoza College of 

“We have worked 
Business Ethics Week. with Offce Depot to Heather 
reduce waste in 
Christopherson, 

ordering offce
a Notre Dame graduate, said supplies.” sustainability is part of Catholic 
Heather Christopherson 
social teaching. 

director
She said Vatican City has become Offce of Sustainability 
carbon neutral, and she refer­enced state­ments by Pope Benedict XVI 
about  the  need  to  use  
resources properly.  
According  to  
Christopherson,  the  
University saves money.  

“When the University replaced inefficient lights in older buildings around cam­pus, the return on investment was estimated to take four to five years. In the end it only took about a year and a half,” Christopherson said. 
Christopherson said the three goals of the Sustainability Department are reducing the University’s car­bon footprint, reducing waste 
— including energy, water and trash — and increasing outreach. 
The University requires new buildings on campus to be built to the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) specifications rating for green buildings, Christopherson said. 

The University works with companies like Office Depot to make deliveries to campus more sustainable as well. Supplies from the company now come in green, reusable 
totes and then delivered to individual pro­fessors and departments in brown paper bags, Christopherson said. 
“We have worked with Office Depot to reduce waste in ordering office supplies,” she said. “In the past, office sup­plies arrived in 

cardboard boxes with a lot of unnecessary packaging.” 
Another exam­ple is the effort to get “tail­gaters” to recy­cle, she said. This involved volunteers walk­ing through the parking lots and collecting recy­clables from the fans. According to Christopherson, these efforts 
were  very  suc­ 
cessful  and  
resulted  in  

Notre Dame winning the 
porated the Zipcar program and uses some hybrid vehi­cles. According to Christopherson there are plans to make use of electric vehicles in the foreseeable future. 
Christopherson said there is also a program to make labo­ratories more sustainable. 
“There was a lab that used four large, inefficient ovens to clean glassware,” she said. “It only took about an hour to clean the glassware, but the ovens were left on 24/7 and only some of the space in each was used. We replaced these four ovens with one new, efficient oven.” 
A major concern for sus­tainability is communication. There are various programs in place to try and educate the Notre Dame community about recycling, limiting ener­gy consumption and other 
“There was a lab that used four large, ineffcient ovens to clean glassware ... We replaced these four ovens with one new, effcient oven.” 
Heather Christopherson director Offce of Sustainability 
sustainability is 
schedules in a way that is compro­mising,” she said. “They have to ask other RAs to cover for them and may not be able to adjust their work schedules to meet the demands of an RA.” 
Johnson said she is confident that the changes to the RA policy will not affect the number of applicants for the positions this spring. 
“Being an RA is an important job and many students are inter­ested each year,” she said. 
The changes will go into effect for the 2011-12 academic year. 
According to the College’s web­site, applications for the RA posi­tions for the 2011-12 academic year were due Thursday. 
Applicants will undergo an indi­vidual interviewing process this week. Applicants undergo individ­ual and group interviews. 
According to the website, the group interviews allow the cur­rent RAs and Residence Life staff to evaluate candidates through their participation in various group activities. 
“This process also gives candi­dates an opportunity to show how they work with others in a group or team setting,” the website said. 
Students receive letters on Feb. 25 announcing whether or not they were selected as an RA for the 2011-12 academic year. 


Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Resident Advisors (RAs) at Saint Mary’s College will notice a change in their job description for the 2011-12 academic year. 
Changes to the RA policy mainly affect RAs’ academic breaks and their eligibility to hold other jobs, Karen Johnson, vice president of Student Affairs, said. 
Johnson said RA’s may not hold off-campus employment, and they will need to work as a team with their hall director to cover break periods when there are still stu­dents in the residence halls. 
“It’s a matter of safety,” she said. 
Johnson said some RAs will have to remain on campus during breaks for which students can choose to stay on campus. The 
concerns, 
rule doesn’t apply to winter break 
Christopherson 
because students cannot stay in 
said. 
the dorms during that break. 
For example, 
“As for covering break periods, 
she said the 
staff must be available whenever 
Compact 
the halls are open,” Johnson said. 
Flu or escen t 
“Each RA will need to take a day 
Lamp (CFL) 
or a few days of a break to be on 
exchange dur­
campus and on duty in the halls.” 
ing which stu-
The College made the changes 
dents are 
to provide the best quality of serv­
offered free CFL 
ice to the students living within 
light bulbs to 
the residence halls, Johnson said. 
replace their 
“Holding off-campus employ-
incandescent 
ment often puts RAs in the posi­
bulbs. 
tion of having to juggle their 
According to 



By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s sociology department is holding its annual Sociology Week — which kicked off Monday and runs through Friday. 
According to Colleen Lowry, a member of Sociology Club, the week began with a viewing of the movie “Love Actually” in Vander Vennet Theater with a discussion afterwards about the topics in the movie. 
Tie-Dye day is Tuesday in the vending machine area of McCandless Hall. Dr. Carrie Erlin, an assistant professor of sociology at the College, will discuss her research over lunch in Conference Room A of the Student Center from noon to 1 p.m. Her research is cen­tered around “extreme [Chicago] Bears fans,” Lowry said. 
Thursday is Sociology Appreciation Day. 
“Look for girls on campus wear­ing their Sociology T-shirts and ask them anything you have ever want­ed to know about Sociology,” Lowry said. 
To wrap up the week, there will be breakfast in the sociology department from 8 to 11 a.m. where students can talk to profes­sors about a major in the subject as well as classes offered by the department. 
Events were chosen based from response to activities in previous years. 
“The club members held a meet­ing and chose the events for the week together based on what has been popular in previous years and what we were all interested in put­ting on this year,” Lowry said. 
The club wanted to bring togeth-Christopherson, 

Environmental Protection now a part of the Agency (EPA) challenge for Contemporary Topics curricu­the Midwest, beating lum for Notre Dame students. 


SMC club holds 

Michigan, Michigan State and other universities. Contact Christian Myers at In the area of transporta-cmyers8@nd.edu 

Sociology Week 
er what would be enjoyable for stu­dents, but also informative for them as well. 
“These events were picked because they are all fun ways to incorporate sociological discussions into activities that everyone can enjoy,” Lowry said. “The movie was followed with a sociological discus­sion about family dynamics and the Sociological Awareness day was promoted by hanging flyers all over campus to educate students about other sociological topics and cur­rent events.” 
The festivities are an attempt to raise awareness for the major and courses offered at the College. 
“We are hoping to get our name out there more as a major and just to generally promote the classes taught by our great professors,” Lowry said. “The club hopes that everyone that attended even one of our events will begin to use their sociological imagination to see the world.” 
Lowry said the week is important for students because it “is about them.” 
“We want [students] to love and appreciate sociology and get insight into the great classes they can take here at Saint Mary’s,” she said. 
In addition to promoting the department, the club also wants students to learn about basic topics covered in sociology. 
“We also want to spread the mes­sage of our great club, great department and great classes,” Lowry said. “Getting students to enjoy learning about these topics with a variety of sociological learn­ing experiences is the main goal of this week.” 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  NEWS Tuesday, February 15, 2011 
student body elections, it is convene to hear the appeal,” After reviewing the appeal, the election results. brought before the Election Thomas said. the senators will make a final The constitution requires a


Election 
continued from page 1 
tion and the nature of the sanction will not be released at this time. 
Thomas said the informa­tion is confidential so the election results do not sway anyone involved in the allega­tion and appeal processes. 
When an allegation is made against a candidate in the Committee for review. The Election Committee met Monday evening to discuss the allegation against the candidate. The committee decided the ticket was in vio­lation of the constitution and would receive a sanction, Thomas said. The candidates on the ticket then appealed the committee’s decision. 
“The Student Senate will have 48 hours from the time of the filing of the appeal to 


Board 
continued from page 1 
will serve as co-news editors. 
A native of South Bend, Doyle currently serves as Associate News Editor and has covered the student government beat for most of the last year. She is an English major with minors in French and Francophone Studies and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 
Stryker is a Television major with a minor in European Studies. He is from New Canaan, Conn. Sryker covered Indiana’s 2nd Congressional District race between Jackie Walorski and Joe Donnelly. 
Joseph will serve as sports editor. A resident of St. Edward’s Hall, Joseph has worked for the department since his freshman year and covered Bengal Bouts, the national runners-up men’s lacrosse team last spring and this fall’s national champion women’s soccer team. Joseph is pursuing a double major in Economics and Pre-professional Studies. He is originally from Dublin, Ohio. 
A resident of Le Mans Hall from Hazard, Ky., Housley has covered Saint Mary’s news since her freshman year. 
Thomassen, hailing from Rowley, Mass., will take over the Viewpoint department. She is a resident of Pasquerilla East Hall. 
Gustin will join the Editorial Board as the Scene editor. Gustin, currently spending the semester studying abroad in London, has already contributed to The Observer from overseas, covering the red carpet at the Orange British Academy Film Awards Saturday. She is from Chicago and is majoring in English and Film, Television and Theatre with a concentration in Film. 
Coveney is also spending the semester participating in Notre Dame’s London Program, but will assume the role of photo editor in the fall. A Political Science major from Keough Hall, Coveney has covered the Irish women’s soccer program’s two trips to the College Cups in the last two years. He is from Geneva, Ill. 
Keelean will serve as Graphics editor. He is a Graphic Design major from Holland, Mich. 
The other editors previously selected for the Editorial Board include Managing Editor Sarah Mervosh, and Assistant Managing Editors Adriana Pratt and Chris Masoud, in addition to Farmer. 

Tuition 
continued from page 1 
said he appreciates the sacrifices families make for students to attend Notre Dame. He said the University would continue to “honor [their] commitment by providing an educational experi­ence that is second to none and fully consistent with our Catholic values.” 
University officers and trustees have focused on containing costs and limiting spending due to ongoing economic difficulties, Jenkins said in the letter. He also said 96 of Notre Dame students graduate within four years, which is one of the highest reten­tion and graduation rates in the country. 
Associated Press 
DUBAI — The possible heirs of Egypt’s uprising took to the streets in different corners of the Middle East: Iran’s belea­guered opposition stormed back to central Tehran and came under a tear gas attack by police. Demonstrators faced rubber bullets and birdshot to demand more freedoms in the relative wealth of Bahrain. And protesters pressed for the ouster of the ruler in poverty-drained Yemen. 
Monday’s protests — all with critical interests for Washington — offer an impor­tant lesson about how groups across Middle East are absorb­ing the message from Cairo and tailoring it to their own aspirations. 
The heady themes of democ­racy, justice and empower­ment remain intact as the protest wave works it way through the Arab world and beyond. What changes, howev­er, are the objectives. The Egypt effect, it seems, is elas­tic. 
“This isn’t a one-size-fits-all thing,” said Mustafa Alani, a regional analyst at the Gulf Research Center in Dubai. “Each place will interpret the fallout from Egypt in their own way and in their own context.” 
For the Iranian opposition — not seen on the streets in more than a year — it’s become a moment to reassert its pres­ence after facing relentless pressures. 
Tens of thousands of protest­ers clashed with security forces along some of Tehran’s main boulevards, which were shrouded in clouds of tear gas in scenes that recalled the chaos after the disputed re­election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in June 2009. A pro-government news agency reported one bystander killed by gunfire. 
“Death to the dictator,” many yelled in reference to Ahmadinejad. Others took aim Iran’s all-powerful Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei with chants linking him with toppled rulers Hosni Mubarak in Egypt and Tunisia’s Zine Al Abidine Ben Ali. 
“Bin Ali, Mubarak, it’s Seyed Ali’s turn,” protesters cried. 
The reformist website kaleme.com said police sta­tioned several cars in front of the home of opposition leader Mir Hossein Mousavi ahead of the demonstration. Mousavi and fellow opposition leader Mahdi Karroubi have been under house arrest since last week after they asked the gov­ernment for permission to hold a rally in support of Egypt’s uprising — which Iran’s lead­ers have claimed was a mod-ern-day replay of their 1979 Islamic Revolution. 
Karroubi and Mousavi, how­ever, have compared the unrest in Egypt and Tunisia with their own struggles. Mousavi said all region’s revolts aimed at ending the “oppression of the rulers.” 
A new U.S. State Department Twitter account in Farsi took a 
The senators will first vote to decide to hear the appeal after brief presentations from Judicial Council and the can­didate in question. 
“This basically works like a screening process,” Thomas said. “They decide if the appeal is legitimate.” 
If the Senate votes to hear the appeal, the ticket can call witnesses before the Senate and must answer questions about the allegation. 
jab at Iran in one of its first messages Sunday, calling on Tehran to “allow people to enjoy same universal rights to peacefully assemble, demon­strate as in Cairo.” 
decision. 
“The senators can make one of two decisions,” Thomas said. “They can vote to uphold the original decision of the election committee, or they can choose to force the Election Committee to recon­vene within 24 hours for the purpose of reconsidering the allegation.” 
After the steps of this process are complete, the Judicial Council will release ticket to earn 50 percent of the vote to win the election, and with five teams on the ballot, Thomas said a runoff election is likely between the two tickets to earn the great­est number of votes. 
Details about a runoff elec­tion would be arranged after the results of Monday’s elec­tion are released. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




Egypt uprising echoes across region 


Tuesday, February 15, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
students or their family mem-ed, Riddle said. Revue ’s move from Saint changes for Saturday night’s bers by name. Other material Duren said the last minute Mary’s to Notre Dame’s cam-show, but we also now under-

Revue 

deemed unacceptable includ-changes to the show were pus. stand that the changes had to continued from page 1 ed sexual references or jokes frustrating because Keenan “Our involvement changed be made.” seen as offensive to specific residents spent so much time this year due to the nature of Hnatusko said all student ty,” she said. groups of students. writing and rehearsing skits the complaints that we groups are called to adhere 
Hnatusko said she viewed a After the meeting ended at for the Revue. Since most received,” she said. “It is my to the University’s standards video of Friday ’s show on 5 p.m., Duren, also a junior, Keenan residents and their sincere hope that the mem-of conduct, but SAO looks Saturday and received input said he, Gallagher, Riddle friends traditionally attend bers of Keenan Hall responsi-forward to working with from Assistant Director of and Nolan discussed their Saturday’s per-ble for future Keenan Hall residents on Student Activities Brian options: Cancel the show that formance, they editions of the future Keenan Revues. Fremeau, Associate Vice night or make changes to it. did not have Revue, as well Riddle said leaders of the President for Student Riddle said they decided to the opportunity as all students Keenan Revue will continue
“Though first dejected

Development Brian Coughlin, perform an edited version of to see the full who are to communicate with Doyle Vice President for Student the Revue and met with skit show in its and bitter and angry involved in pro-and SAO to create guidelines Affairs Fr. Tom writers and original ver -— flustered to say grams and pro-for future Revues. Keenan Doyle and actors. They sion. ductions on Hall may also consider mov­
the least — we all

Keenan Hall “The meeting ended presented SAO’s “Clearly, the campus would ing the Revue to a different Rector Fr. Dan with an hour and a new require -Revue has been came together as a consider the off-campus venue, he said. Nolan. ments and left known to push group. We got as impact their “We’ll keep talking about
half until our show so
R i d d l e , the decision the envelope, production can the possible groundwork for
many laughs as we

Keenan Revue it was very whether to edit and it’s kind of have on indi -a line ... as to the future of
could. We tried to

Director frustrating. But the or eliminate a commentary viduals in our the Revue and we made it Grayson Duren each skit to on Notre Dame entertain as best we community and clear to Fr. Doyle that line
guys came together
and Keenan individual writ-life just from a the community will be pushed hard,” Riddle
could on Saturday.” 

Hall President and did a very good ers and actors. student per -itself during said. “The Revue as it has Raymond job adapting to the To best perform s p e c t i v e , ” the planning pushed the envelope in the Gallagher met the revised ver-Duren said. Chase Riddle stages.” past will continue to do so in
circumstances we 
with Hnatusko, sion of the “We’re just junior R i d d l e , the future.” Nolan and were put in … show, Riddle speaking as a D u r e n , Duren said although Fremeau Grayson and Chase said they made bunch of guys Gallagher and Monday’s meeting left him Saturday after-some actor sub-from Keenan other Keenan with a better understanding
did a great job.” 
noon at 4 p.m. stitutions and who like to students met of SAO ’s perspective, he 
“The student actors held comment on the subtleties of with Fr. Tom Doyle, vice hopes future Keenan Revues leaders in Raymond Gallagher scripts on stage Notre Dame life.” president for Student Affairs, will remain true to the Keenan Hall president during certain Looking back at Saturday’s Monday afternoon, after event’s 35-year-old tradition. were asked to skits. events, Riddle said he is which Riddle said they had a “The Revue is one of the
Keenan Hall 
adjust the con-“The meeting proud of how the Keenan res-better understanding of most popular events on cam-tent of the ended with an idents involved with the SAO’s handling of the situa-pus, I think, for a reason: show that was directed at hour and a half until our Revue handled the situation. tion. because it’s the voice of the individual members of the show so it was very frustrat-“Though first dejected and “We walked out of the students, for the students,” Notre Dame student commu-ing,” Gallagher said. “But the bitter and angry — flustered [Monday] meeting feeling Duren said. “I think we’ ll nity,” Hnatusko said. “We guys came together and did a to say the least — we all very good about the way [Fr. have to try to work with SAO also asked them to consider very good job adapting to the came together as a group,” Doyle] handled it and the way to keep it as much as possi­the potential negative impact circumstances we were put he said. “We got as many SAO handled it from the time ble, but we do not want to other content could have on in. … Grayson and Chase did laughs as we could. We tried he was contacted and the sacrifice the tradition of the traditionally under-repre -a great job.” to entertain as best we could time we had to go on stage,” Revue in order to adhere to sented students on campus.” Saturday night ’s show on Saturday.” Riddle said. “We know that new standards.” 
Gallagher, a junior, said began with a public apology Hnatusko said SAO ’s [as] Keenan Hall, we were SAO told them the Revue to the groups and individuals increased involvement this very upset — as I assume the Contact Laura McCrystal at could not reference current the Revue may have offend-year was not due to the crowd was — about the lmccryst@nd.edu 

The Observer 




Viewpoint 

page 6 Tuesday, February 15, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Quest for perfection 

Although all of my classes are intel­lectually stimulating, it seldom occurs that a class truly inspires self-reflection and leads to subsequent revelations about my life outside of the pursuit of academic fulfillment. My seminar this semester is different. Each day comes with small bits of informa­tion about how to recognize complete personal fulfillment and what can be done to attain it. 

Today’s class was 

Courtney Cox 
no exception. We discussed the 
Assistant 
attributes of a self-
Scene Editor 
actualized human being, as described by psychologist Abraham Maslow. The one characteristic that stuck out the most was that no self-actualized person is perfect. 
It is a lesson that everyone must learn in life, but it is often difficult to truly believe that living a happy life does not require perfection. 
Not only does a happy life not require perfection, it is perhaps impossible to live a happy life if one is constantly seeking perfection. No one spends their time invested solely in one activity; we all spread our time commitment across different pursuits (presumably pursuits that are meant to bring us closer to becoming a happy, fulfilled person). If we belabor all of these pursuits with the pressure to perform perfect­ly in every aspect of our life, we leave no room to truly enjoy what we are doing. 
“Black Swan,” an Academy Award nominee for Best Picture, analyzes the quest for perfection and the dam­age it can have on a person’s psyche. Nina Sayers (Natalie Portman) is a technically perfect ballerina, yet she does not fit easily into the role of the Black Swan considering her mild mannered, submissive temperament. She abuses herself physically in order to cope with the pressure of changing her natural character to fit the role. Even worse than the physi­cal effects of her transformation are the effects on her mental health. She begins to hallucinate and make vio­lently quick transitions between a normal, meek personality, and a much more aggressively seductive version of herself. Her quest for per­fection both literally and physically kills her. 
The lessons we can learn from such art and psychology are clear, but we can only truly learn that perfection is superfluous to happiness when we allow ourselves to enjoy our imper­fections. The best way to do this is to try something we have never done simply because it seems enjoyable. 
Take up a sport that you’ve never played simply because you want to have fun, or try taking an art class to relax and relieve tension. Some peo­ple are talented athletes or artists, but not everyone has to be talented to enjoy playing a sport or complet­ing a painting. It’s a simple concept to understand, but the challenge comes from allowing ourselves to enjoy things despite our imperfec­tions or perhaps even because of them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

Keeping today’s media within reason 
Here is a hard truth: Media outlets are businesses. Sure, they provide an essen­tial source of information to the general public regarding the state of the world. But at the end of the day, their goal is to make money. If they don’t make enough Andy Ziccarelli of it, the media out­let fails. We see this 
Moment of 
in the newspaper 
Intertia 
industry today. With the Internet making news articles available for free, hard copy paper editions are quickly becoming obso­lete, and newspaper companies are losing hundreds of millions of dollars. 
Media outlets know that their financial success is based on one thing: audience. For television news networks, that means ratings, and for newspapers, it means readers. So all media outlets face the same question: How do we attract an audience to follow our news and not the others? For cable news channels, the answer seems to be differentiation by political party. Fox News is the channel for conservatives, MSNBC is for liberals, and CNN walks a tight rope relatively close to the center. So we have a news industry in which people will likely watch the channel that is in line with their own views. But the problem still remains, how do these channels make sure that people are watching at all? The answer to that question is sensationalism. 
Sensationalism is the over-hyping of events, making them appear more impor­tant than they actually are. This happens every day in the mainstream media. This is because the idea of ordinary does not make for strong ratings. The general pub­lic does not want the media to tell them that there is nothing particularly special about today. Controversy and hyperbole sell. 
To make this possible, the media needs characters who are willing to embody this idea. These personalities need to be loud, brash and intentionally controversial. The content of their shows is based in news, but is presented in such a way that the primary goal is to entertain the viewer and keep him watching. To do this, the media ask overly dramatic questions that are intended to increase the perceived gravity of a situation, such as “How will this incident permanently affect President Obama’s legacy?” Obviously, nobody can answer that for years. But questions like that play off of the public’s desire for “rel­evant” news and the fact that people like to feel that they are witnessing history, even when they aren’t. Sports media are guilty of this as well. Rather than looking at an unpalatable slate of football games and admitting that a particular Saturday is rather ordinary, ESPN will always pick a “game of the week” to promote and over-hype. One blogger mockingly calls these games, “the game of the century of the week.” 
To be sure, there is nothing wrong with this style of “infotainment,” provided that it is kept in context. The problem arises when people take this it as a hard truth. Unfortunately, these sensationalists are very good at saying things that will incite a response in viewers, and will intention­ally play on their emotions. And that is even before we consider the fact that a certain percentage of the population is simply not well-informed. 
So, as a rational consumer, how does one wade through the sea of hyperbole and combat sensationalism? The best way, in my opinion, is to look in the mir­ror and stop taking ourselves so seriously, and the leaders of this movement are Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert. Better than anyone, these two, while clearly incorpo­rating elements of infotainment into their shows, do it in such a satirical manner that the viewer comes to realize just how outlandish some of today’s “news pro­gramming” actually is. Often, Stewart will simply show a clip of a cable news broad­cast and not comment on it at all, because the content of the clip is so ridiculous that the joke will write itself. 
Taking it one step further this fall Stewart and Colbert organized and co-hosted the “Rally to Restore Sanity,” which was reported as a spoof of Glenn Beck’s “Restoring Honor” Rally, though Stewart claims that it was not. The day featured musical guests and comedy sketches, but maybe the most important part was Stewart’s sincere speech at the end, which criticized the alarmist and hyperbolic ways of politicians and, more importantly, the media that cover them. He remarked, “The country’s 24-hour politico-pundit perpetual panic ‘conflicti­nator’ did not cause our problems, but its existence makes solving them that much harder. The press can hold its magnifying glass up to our problems, bringing them into focus, illuminating issues heretofore unseen. Or they can use that magnifying glass to light ants on fire, and then per­haps host a week of shows on the ‘dan­gerous, unexpected flaming-ants epidem­ic!’ If we amplify everything, we hear nothing.” 
Stewart’s message should not fall on deaf ears. Indeed, today’s news media has the power to do great good in our world, shedding light on issues that need to be addressed, and giving necessary informa­tion to the general public. But it is the abuse of that power, in the name of attracting viewers and higher ratings, that can cause problems. Media today can def­initely provide useful news, but we must be careful to differentiate news from entertainment, because often one is dis­guised as the other. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Take yourself seriously 
Dear Anna Boarini, 
While your article (“Seriously, Saint Mary’s,” Feb. 11), seemed well intended, I feel your overall argument and excessive gener­alization of both Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame women is unbearably flawed. We are all individuals, and with that comes the ability to define ourselves through personal value rather than by comparing ourselves to a group of equally unique and diverse women. I agree that our attitude toward the jokes made at the expense of Saint Mary’s women during the Keenan Revue should be taken lightheartedly, but we should not bring this atti­tude with us everywhere we go. It will be impossible to stop peo­ple’s erroneous beliefs of Saint Mary’s women by laughing along when someone assumes we are less intelligent or sleazy. By laughing at ourselves, we will just reinforce the stereotypes towards Saint Mary’s students. It is one thing to be able to laugh at yourself during a comedy skit and another to have such skits leave the show and reinforce the stereotypes we face as women of Saint Mary’s College. We can try and show everyone how fit­ting we are for the Notre Dame community, or how much we actually study aside from partying, but if we keep strengthening those stereotypes by simply laughing at ourselves, well, then, don’t expect the views of others to change. If you really want people to see us in a positive light, as individuals rather than a group of many derogatory terms, the first thing to do is to shut down those misleading stereotypes. Now, Ms. Boarini, if you want to just laugh at yourself while someone puts you down as part of a group of people, by all means go ahead and do it, but do not attempt to increase this type of discrimination by per­suading other women to succumb to such an ineffective attitude. The College does not seek to make us into women who can laugh when being put down, the College seeks to make us into responsible, strong willed leaders who can stand up for them­selves and falsify nonsensical opinions that only grow because of people like you who cooperate to make these statements seem funny and acceptable. It is never okay to put down others based on what group they belong in. Ms. Boarini, I invite you to look within yourself and find what makes YOU special and stop com­paring yourself to a group of women who are individually unique as well. 
Best of luck, 
Crisel Casillas 
sophomore Regina Hall Feb. 13 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If we had no winter, the spring
“A friend is one before whom I may would not be so pleasant: If we didnot sometimes taste of adversity, 
think aloud.” 
prosperity would not be sowelcome.” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson
U.S. essayist and poet Anne Bradstreet 
U.S. poet 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 

Tuesday, February 15, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A Saint Mary’s woman 
I first want to say that I completely agree with “Seriously Saint Mary’s” (Feb. 11). Saint Mary’s does need to calm down when it comes to the Keenan Revue. No, I don’t like it when people make jokes about or insult us randomly, but when it comes to the Revue, I relish in the comedy. It just shows that we are beyond awesome, and they don’t know how to handle it besides making fun of us. And it is hilarious! 
However, I do want to say something to the statement that we should “start acting more like our counterparts across the street” in order to get the jokes to stop. Personally, I resent that statement. Why would I want to act like a Notre Dame student at all? Not that I have anything against them, but I go to Saint Mary’s, I will act like a Saint Mary’s student, not a Notre Dame one, and not a “SMC Chick” either. In reality, it is the minority of our small population actually in that cat­egory. Whereas, the majority do like to visit Notre Dame, join clubs, see friends, and, in the past, have dinner. If anything, I hear more jokes and insults on Notre Dame people than Saint Mary’s, partly because they have such a bigger school and partly because I just went to the Revue this past weekend. Also, none of my Notre Dame friends, boys and girls, think I or any Saint Mary’s girls are stupid/idiots, except for those select few that have receive the title “SMC Chick." 
In short, yes, we do need to relax when talking about the Revue, but to stop all other jokes we do NOT need to start “acting like our coun­terparts.” 
I am a Saint Mary’s Woman, not a Notre Dame Copy Cat. 
Allison Kincaid 
sophomore Le Mans Hall Feb. 13 


Consequences of repealing “Don’t ask, Don’t tell” 
Those who serve our country in uniform, particularly those in combat units, are not homophobes. In the Pentagon’s highly cited report regarding “Don’t ask, Don’t tell,” nearly 60 percent of America’s infantrymen, those who do the backbreaking work of fighting America’s wars, stated that they believe the repeal of “Don’t ask, Don’t tell” would adversely affect unit cohesion. This percentage, which is con­siderably higher than that of the rest of the military, is not because infantry men are worried about feel­ing “uncomfortable” as Adam Newman puts it in his Feb. 11 article “You Don’t have to be Straight to Shoot Straight.” These men live a life of discomfort that ignorant civilians and policy makers know noth­ing about. Their disapproval means they recognize the terrible danger that the repeal of “Don’t ask, Don’t tell” will put their lives in. Not Obama’s life, not the media’s life, not “Diversity’s” life, not some sophomore in college’s life, but their lives. 
Such homosexual activity, or the thought that your buddy in the rack next to you engages in homosex­ual activity, detracts from the combat mission of the Army and Marine CORPS (Note the spelling Adam Newman). Our infantrymen bunk together, shower together and eat together; they locate, close with, and destroy the enemy together; they are able to stare death in the face because they do it together. Because even the smallest decision, action or policy could mean the difference between life and death, it would be a disservice to these warriors to enact a policy that will detract from unit cohesion, especially during a time of war. The repeal of “Don’t ask, Don’t tell” will introduce conflicts and concerns at the small unit level will take away from the actual training leading to war. Even the most trivial of things will suddenly become complicated. These men’s lives are complicated enough, who are we to make them more so. 
Any policy change that has the slightest chance of endangering the lives of our nations sons and daughters, America’s greatest and most treasured asset, should be immediately disregarded by any man of worth until, at the very least, the United States is not engaged in war. Political opinions, cam­paign promises and diversity are not worth the lives of America’s children. 
God, Country, Notre Dame, 
Michael Falvey 
freshman Zahm Hall Feb. 13 
UWIRE 


Study reveals undergraduates do not learn 
According to a new study, nearly half of the nation’s undergraduates show almost no increase in learning in their first two years of college. 
The study shows that two years in college, 45 per­cent of students showed no significant gains in learning and after four years, The Parthenon Editorial Board while 36 percent showed little Marshall University change. The study found that students also spend 50 percent less time studying compared with students a few decades ago. 
The book, “Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses” by Richard Arum and Josipa Roska, released these findings based off of tran­scripts and surveys of more than 3,000 full-time tra­ditional-age students on 29 campuses nationwide, along with their results on the Collegiate Learning Assessment, a standardized test that gauges stu­dents’ critical thinking, analytic reasoning and writ­ing skills. 
These studies are an insult to every university in the United States. 
Is the book trying to infer our parents are wasting their money on our education? What about Ivy League colleges? Are those students wasting their 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
time too, just going to the university merely for its name? 
With the economy being the way it is, students have to work especially hard to compete in today’s workforce. So many people are being laid off and looking for jobs, making it even more difficult for us to compete with those who have more work experi­ence. 
Graduate colleges are becoming more difficult to enroll in by increasing their admission criteria and this study’s results makes it seem as though college is a waste of time and that we are not learning any­thing useful. But we beg to differ. 
College teaches us how to develop our time-man­agement skills, enhance our ability to interact with different types of individuals, facilitate the acquisi­tion of knowledge and perhaps most importantly, discover who we are. Earning a college diploma may not seem like much of an achievement to some indi­viduals, but it’s a feat many individuals are proud to say they’ve accomplished. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 10 edition of The Parthenon, serving Marshall University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene

page 8 Tuesday, February 15, 2011 

Greetings, fellow wanderers! This is the final article of my three-part series on Chicago. Though I could go on forever about things to do, this week’s article will be dedicated to shopping and some miscel-Laura Mittelstaedt laneous ideas to inspire you to Scene Writer explore Chicago some more on your own. 
Shopping in Chicago 
Shopping is always a fun — albeit expensive — way to explore cities, and Chicago is no exception. Here’s a list of some of the best shopping areas in Chicago, whether you’re looking to empty your wallet or do some window shopping. 
If you’re really in the mood to shop… 
The Magnificent Mile 
The Magnificent Mile is an eight-block stretch of North Michigan Avenue, where shoppers can explore over 460 different stores and bou­tiques. Though The Magnificent Mile sometimes feels overly touristy, it’s incredibly convenient and has a huge variety of stores and products, in many different price ranges. There are also tons of hotels and restau­rants in the area, so the Magnificent Mile is perfect if you just want to hang out downtown and get a feel for the city. 
State Street (between Randolph and Jackson) 
State Street has many well-known shops, like the famed Marshall Field’s (now Macy’s) and Garrett Popcorn (a small Chicago-based popcorn compa­ny that always has a line out the door, even when it’s freezing outside). There is also a new, two-story Anthropologie that has become one of my favorite stops in the city. Conveniently located near Broadway and ballet theaters, as well as Millennium Park and CTA stops, State Street another great shopping area when you’re downtown. 
If large crowds aren’t your cup of tea… 
Lincoln Park 
Lincoln Park is a fun shopping area, with a large variety of specialty shops, boutiques and well-known brands. The area near West Armitage Avenue, North Halstead Street and West Webster Avenue has tons of shops, including Lululemon Athletica, Vosges Haut Chocolate (my favorite chocolate shop), BCBG and many oth­ers. Oz Park is also outlined by these three streets, and is a fun stop on warm days — it’s Wizard of Oz themed. Lincoln Park is a great area to wander, whether you’re shopping or looking for a bite to eat, as many of the businesses are unique and Chicago-based. 
Wicker Park and Bucktown 
This is the area of Chicago that I keep telling myself I need to explore more. I spent quite a bit of time in Wicker Park over Christmas break, and I had a wonderful time floating in and out of shops. The main shop­ping area can be found near the intersection of North Milwaukee Avenue and North Damen Avenue. The Wicker Park and Bucktown area is very eclectic, with high-end bou­tiques mixed in with consignment stores. Though most of the shops in this area are locally owned, you can find Free People on Milwaukee Avenue and Marc by Marc Jacobs on Damen Avenue. Near the Free People boutique is one of my favorite coffee shops, Filter. The café is huge, with lots of couches and chairs, and it’s a fun spot to grab coffee or a snack and hang out when it’s cold outside. 

If you want to window shop… 
Oak Street 
In French, the word for “window shopping” is lèche-vitrines, which loosely translates to window licking. Every time I wander down Oak Street, I find myself drooling over all the beautiful clothes and shoes gleaming from the pristine windows. Just north of Bloomingdale’s, Oak Street has all those stores that you’re kind of afraid to go into, and that have completely gratuitous products and window displays — Jimmy Choo, Prada and Hermès to name a few. This is always one of my favorite areas, simply because everything is so beautiful and excessive. There are also many (reasonably priced) restau­rants and bars in this area, including Bistro Zinc and Corner Bakery. 
Miscellaneous 
Seeing comedy shows, Broadway performances or concerts in Chicago is always a lot of fun, and many the­aters have special prices for students. Second City and Zanie’s have enter­taining comedy acts, while the Oriental Theater houses many Broadway shows. For those of you who love film, the Gene Siskel Film Center, on State Street, shows inde­pendent, international, and classic films — it’s one of my favorite lesser-known spots in the city. I’m also always on the lookout for interesting concerts at Metro, a small concert venue on the north side that features alternative and rock bands; over Christmas break I saw The Hush Sound and Yeasayer, which were both outstanding. Blue Man Group has fantastic performances as well, at Briar Street Theater in Lakeview. 
So there you have it. I realize that I have probably omitted some amazing restaurants, shops, and the like from my articles, but I hope that this series on Chicago has given you inspiration to make a trip into the city and explore it for yourself. The opportu­nities in Chicago are endless, and we should all try to visit more often. Keep a look out for future “Wanderlust” articles with other fun things to do in the Midwest. Until then, fellow Domers, keep wander­ing. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Mittelstaedt at lmit­tels@nd.edu. 
The Observer 


Scene

Tuesday, February 15, 2011 page 9 



pet on the bodies of Heidi Klum, color and cuts that were innovative that hugged her body in all of the 

By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
LeAnn Rimes, Kathy Griffin, Selena and fresh. Jennifer Hudson showed right places. Her hair was left relaxed 
Scene Writer 
G o m e z , off her new and blow dried with a part right 

Watching this years Grammy’s, it’s M i r a n d a slender body down the middle. She was not the evident that today’s hottest artists Lambert and in a very only performer looking fierce in a aren’t just entertaining through their bootylicious fla ttering mini dress. Keri Hilson, Ciara and voices and incredible musical abili-K i m navy Versace Jersey Shore’s Snooki all arrived ties. Their staggering style and trendy Kardashian. dress with wearing barely there dresses that 
fashion faux pas keeps viewers glued Selena Gomez pin straight showcased their shape despite the to television screens because whether sported a hair. Miley cool February evening. its Nicki Minaj head to toe in leopard super sleek J. Cyrus was a Some, however, did not make the or Lady Gaga trapped in a giant egg Mendel gown p l e a s a n t best fashion choices. Paramore was a all are left stunned in our seats. whereas Kim s u r p r i s e bit confusing. The men looked messy 
This year’s fashion choices are Kardashian when she and uncoordinated, and Hayley proof that an entertainer’s job doesn’t showcased a graced the Williams tried channeling the 60s just end when they get off the stage. gold sequined carpet wear-with a horrible looking black and The Smith family strutted their stuff K a u f m a n ing a metal-pink feather costume dress. If the as Willow Smith whipped her hair Franco gown. lic tiger-dress didn’t offend then the makeup back and forth with orange highlights She told Ryan print Cavalli did the trick. Her neon green eye and a getup to match. Jayden Smith Seacrest dur-dress with shadow, orange eyebrows and fire red 
surprised later in the show during the ing an inter-c h u n k y hair and lips were enough to give amazing Justin Bieber and Usher per-view that the bracelets to Lady Gaga a run for her money. formance. The energy was high and dress was tai-m a t c h . Katy Perry had similar bad luck the performance dominated the night. lored too Cyrus’s hair with a white gown designed by 
The men of the night sported edgy small for her was left in Armani that appeared to have white but classy suits. Ricky Martin mixed it backside. The loose waves feather wings protruding from her up with silver skin tight pants and designers Ken that only back. Not exactly “Teenage Dream” some lace up black boots for finish. Kaufman and added to the material. Handsome Drake rocked the all black Isaac Franco b o h e m i a n Award shows are always entertain-suit with his sequined dressed mother had to modify feel that left ing but half the fun is admiring and as his date. the dress last audiences in judging the fashion sense of the stars. 
The women of the night stole the minute so awe. This year’s Grammy Awards did not show with gowns that caused jaws to that she could A l t h o u g h disappoint and the performances and drop as low as the hemlines. fit into it in there were awardees were all equally amazing to 
If anyone noticed the popular trend time for the show. plenty of long dresses represented, a watch. of gold on the red carpet this year The fashion choices for this year’s couple of ladies had no problem you were not alone. An obnoxious 53rd Grammy Awards veered away showing off some leg. J. Lo wore a Contact Katherine Greenspon at parade of gold gowns flooded the car-from traditional and safe and favored low cut, V-neck, long sleeved dress kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 


By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
A grueling journey for both the real-life main character and the­ater audiences across the nation, Danny Boyle’s “127 Hours” is the true story of 20-something mountain climber Aron Ralston who, during a 2003 hike in Utah’s Canyonlands National Park, caught his right arm between a boulder and a rock wall and became trapped in a narrow slot in Blue John Canyon. 
The biographical adventure film, based on Ralston’s memoir “Between a Rock and a Hard Place,” has received much criti­cal acclaim with six Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture and Best Actor for James Franco’s performance as Ralston. 
Franco is certainly worthy of the nomination. As the film’s main protagonist, Ralston is immobilized throughout most of the film, but he draws audience members into the journey and his thoughts through memories and “home made” videos of his predicament as he conquers fear, loneliness and at his lowest point, death. 
Although deep in his love for the outdoors, Ralston comes off as being more of an energetic adventurer than one to quietly contemplate nature. Before get­ting stuck in the canyon, he cov­ers record distances biking through the desert with his headphones blaring, bumps into two hikers Kristi (played by Kate Mara) and Megan (portrayed by Amber Tamblyn) who appear to be lost and teaches them a few basic rock climbing moves, all in a day’s work. 
Franco portrays Ralston’s character well, and his face and body language perfectly convey the slow but sure transition from a skilled yet cocky, enthusiastic extreme sports mountain climber to a terrified, vulnerable and desperately nostalgic kid as he realizes that he’s on the brink of life and death. 
One moment in particular that brings light to Franco’s perform­ance is not long after Ralston finds himself trapped within the slot canyon. He pulls a small video camera out of his back­pack and begins narrating his dilemma. Trying desperately to muster up any bit of enthusiasm or optimism he has left, Ralston imagines himself as both host and guest on a morning talk show, along with audience response. He reflects on the mis­takes that brought him to the canyon, foremost failing to inform family or friends of where he was going and in the end, finds only one word to sum up his situation: “Oops.” 
Boyle has tackled a major feat in turning Ralston’s personal life-altering adventure, more mental than physical, into a hor­rific yet inspirational dramatic feature film that keeps viewers on the edge of their seats. According to a recent interview with “The Guardian,” Ralston says that the movie is “so factu­ally accurate it is as close to a documentary as you can get and still be a drama.” 
The drama’s desert setting is both aesthetically beautiful and appropriate for the situation at hand. In the midst of both a life and death struggle and an exis­tential crisis, the vastness of the desert causes Ralston to realize his insignificance but also renew his appreciation for life as well as other people, his friends and family (played by Kate Burton, Treat Williams and Lizzy Caplan). 
The biopic’s original sound­track is worthy of praise as well. Composed by A.R. Rahman, who previously collaborated with Boyle on “Slumdog Millionaire,” the soundtrack itself is up for two Academy Awards, Best Original Score and Best Original Song for “If I Rise.” 
The movie is more than a look at an individual’s fight between life and death. It is a story of strong determination if there ever was one, and it leaves view­ers with the belief that there is nothing more human about the human race than the will to live. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at ackilpat@nd.edu 


page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 15, 2011 
MLB 


Former Negro Leagues pitcher Cecil Kaiser dies 
Associated Press 
Cecil Kaiser, a diminutive left-hander who made $700 a month at the height of his Negro Leagues pitching career in the 1940s, died Monday at the age of 94. 
His son, Tyrone, said Kaiser died following a fall at his home in Southfield, Mich. 
“He fell, was rushed to the hospital and his heart stopped,” said Tyrone Kaiser, who remem­bered his 

father as a 

“Certainly we will
lifelong base­

ball fan who remember him fondly, talked about remember the the game “all 
contributions he made, 
the time.” 

not only in baseball.” 
Cecil Kaiser grew up a Yankees fan Raymond Doswell in New York. 
interim president
With his path 

Negro Leagues Museum
to the majors 
blocked by segregation, the 5-foot-6, 165-pounder played outfield with some trav­eling sandlot teams, eventually rising to prominent roles with the Pittsburgh Crawfords and Homestead Grays. 
According to the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, Kaiser first appeared with the Crawfords as an outfielder, but when the team’s pitching staff suffered a series of injuries, manager “Candy Jim” Taylor sent Kaiser to the mound. 
A reluctant Kaiser responded by hurling a complete-game victory over the Cincinnati Clowns. 
Despite his size, Kaiser was known as a strikeout pitcher who effectively mixed in a good fastball with an assort­ment of off-speed pitches. He was nicknamed “Minute Man,” because it took him but a minute to strike out batters. 
Last month, Kaiser attended the opening of a Negro Leagues-themed exhibition at 
an art museum in Muskegon, Mich. There, he described having played with the legendary pitcher Satchel Paige and how the great Josh Gibson was his catcher at one time. 
“They’re pretty 
much  all  gone  
now.  Not  too  
many  are  left,”  

Kaiser told The 
Muskegon Chronicle. 
In 1947, Kaiser made $700 a month with the Grays, with whom he played through 1949. He also had success during a number of stops in various Latin American and Canadian leagues. 
Perhaps his best year of win­ter ball came in 1949-1950, when, pitching with Caguas of the Puerto Rican League, he posted a league-leading 1.68 ERA. 
The Negro Leagues museum said that upon the demise of the Negro National League, a drawing was held to determine the dispersal of players among the remaining teams. When Kaiser was assigned to the Clowns, he refused to report and returned to Puerto Rico. 
After he lost power in his pitching arm and left pro base­ball, Kaiser spent five years with the Ford Motor Co. team in the Detroit Industrial League. 
“Certainly we will remember him fondly, remember the con­tributions he made, not only in baseball,” said Raymond Doswell, interim president of the Negro Leagues museum. 
Doswell said only about 125 to 150 former Negro League players are still alive and Kaiser was known to be among those who made a point of attending reunions and other events tied to their time in baseball. 
The Detroit Tigers in recent years were among those to cel­ebrate the contributions of Kaiser and others. 
“Cecil was a great friend to the Detroit Tigers and was truly a pioneer to the game of baseball,” the club said in a statement. “The Tigers are grateful of Cecil’s participation in our annual Negro Leagues tribute games. . Cecil’s warm smile and presence will be missed.” 
Tyrone Kaiser said his father worked for more than 40 years as a deliveryman and mainte­nance worker for a printing company in suburban Detroit and was “a hardworking man who took care of his family — a very good provider.” 
“He was a great father, and I’m definitely going to miss him,” he said. 
MLB 


Upbeat Zumaya feels healthy for new Tigers season 
Associated Press  hander with tattoos on both arms and a fastball that’s been  up, then hurt his right shoulder after the season when a box fell  Zumaya said during the off­season he’d be ready to throw  looked relaxed as he threw to catcher Victor Martinez, one of  
Joel Zumaya feigned a pitch- known to hit triple digits on the  on him while he was trying to  without restrictions this spring,  the team’s newest additions.  
ing motion and prepared to  radar gun.  help gather items as California  and Monday provided no evi­ “He asked me to break in his  
field a grounder at the mound  “I just want to go out there  wildfires closed in on his par­ dence to the contrary.  glove a little bit,” Zumaya said.  
— only he did it  a  little too  and  have  that  ents’ house.  “It’s time for this kid to have  “The coaches don’t want  us  
early, and the ball wasn’t hit to  healthy year,” he  Last  year’s  some good luck, so we’re real  throwing too hard out there  
him right away.  said. “I feel real- injury  might  thrilled with where he’s at. He  right now.”  
“I’ve been out too long, baby,” he yelled. “I’m ready.” With an excited smile and a healthy right arm, Zumaya was  ly, really good about myself and the way my body feels.”  “It’ time for this kid to have some good luck, so we’re really thrilled  have been the most grue­some. Zumaya collapsed to  looks great,” manager Jim Leyland said. “He’s just free and easy — not much effort there. That’s good.”  Zumaya had struck out 34 batters and walked 11 — the best ratio of his career — when he went down last year. If he  
back on the field for the Detroit Tigers in their first workout  Zumaya helped the Tigers reach  with where he’s at.”  the mound in pain after  Detroit’s pitchers spent much of their time on fielding drills  stays healthy and effective, the Tigers could have quite a  
Monday. The hard-throwing reliever  the World Series in 2006, but he  Jim Leyland  throwing a pitch, fearful  Monday, but they also tossed a few pitches toward the end of  bullpen. Closer Jose Valverde was an All-Star last year, and  
laughed and joked his  way  hasn’t  pitched  manager  his career was  the workout. Pitching coach  Detroit added Joaquin Benoit in  
through even the most mun­dane of drills, his spirits high as  more than 31 games in a sea- Detroit Tigers  over. It turned out there was  Rick Knapp gathered players around at the start of that ses­ the offseason. Benoit had a 1.34 ERA as a setup man for Tampa  
he tries to  move  on from yet  son since.  no  ligament  sion, warning that control is  Bay in 2010.  
another injury.  In  2007,  he  damage to his  more important that power at  “I’ll tell you what,” Martinez  
Zumaya broke his pitching  ruptured  a  ten- elbow,  but  it  this point.  said.  “It’s  more  fun  being  
elbow in June, the latest set- don in the middle finger of his  was fractured and he was done  It’s hard to tell Zumaya to  behind the plate for him than  
back for the entertaining right- pitching hand while warming  for the year.  hold back, but the 26-year-old  being in the box.”  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about And I'm sure after Facebook it will I like Cinderella, I really do. She has Ever since I started to get recogni­has been sexually assaulted, we be the little cameras that we have a good work ethic. I appreciate a tion I've picked out certain fans andFOR RENT NOTICES can help. implanted into the palms of our good, hard-working gal. And she reverse-stalked them. 
hands and we'll be debating likes shoes. The fairy tale is all GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't For more information, visit Notre whether we should get them, and about the shoe at the end, and I'm RENTAL: House for rent for gradua-go it alone. Notre Dame has many Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu then we'll all get them. a big shoe girl. I praticed making faces in the mirror tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. resources in place to assist you. and it would drive my mother crazy. 
——————————————— Every character I play has to be the ——————————————— She used to scare me by saying Perfect location-right next to the If you or someone you love needs hero of his own story, the way we're that I was going to see the devil if I new Eddy Street Commons-walk to confidential support or assistance, Jesse Eisenberg Quotes all heroes of our own lives. t made Jim Carrey kept looking in the mirror. That fas-everything-safe family oriented please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. me more uncomfortable. cinated me even more, of course. street. I am actually going to two therapists Green Eggs and Ham was the story 
For more information, visit ND's right now. I don't know, I actually Amy Adams: of my life. I wouldn't eat a thing Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for website at: http://pregnancysup-feel like therapy has just made me I'm one of seven kids. That'll keep when I was a kid, but Dr. Seuss Morgan Freeman is so class. He's additional info and photos port@nd.edu more uncomfortable. your ego in check. inspired me to try cauliflower! so cool. He's so scary. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————– ——————————————— 
Tuesday, February 15, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
this matchup, dominating the landing punches, but neither the James “Mankind” Walsh def. round. In the third round, the fight from the outset with a junior Kissling nor the freshman Jerel “Yellow Fever” Ho fighters exchanged big blows, 


Garvin 

mighty right hand and combina-Ziemba could land a big one. Senior Jerel Ho came out with including wild flails and devas­continued from page 16 tions of body shots and powerful Kissling was able to manage a a definite strategy to start the tating blows. Nevertheless, 
strikes to the head. Torres’ right few jabs to bruise Ziemba in the match, but that strategy soon Eichler was victorious in the end forth third round, Garvin could-hook caught Panzl off-guard second round. The freshman, backfired as he fell victim to by unanimous decision. n’t overcome the difference multiple times, stunning the however, responded in the third sophomore James Walsh’s from a dominating second round senior into a defensive strategy round, cornering and hammer-lengthy strikes. Ho started the Sebastian “The Hispanic by Rowek, who won by unani-that worked to Torres’ advan-ing the junior. It was not match with a flurry of body Causing Panic” De Las Casas mous decision. tage. The second round proved enough though, as Kissling won strikes followed immediately by def. Robert Gallagher 
to be the difference in this fight, by split decision. a defensive position, where he In what was an exciting fight Daniel Rodriguez def. Matt as Torres outlasted the retreat-would also dart to different cor-throughout, freshman Sebastian “Scoots” Sheehan ing Panzl with an energetic flur-Kevin “Get ‘Er” Dunne def. ners of the ring to tire his oppo-De Las Casas did indeed cause 
In a speedy opening round, ry of strikes that was too much Mike “Hidden Valley Zesty nent. But by the third round, his senior opponent to panic en the Alumni freshman Rodriguez to overcome despite a valiant Ranch” Dressing both fighters felt the strategy’s route to a unanimous decision delivered a series of jabs, third round by the senior. Torres In a matchup of speed versus effect as Walsh’s size and power victory. De Las Casas looked knocking the off-campus law won in a unanimous decision power, speed prevailed as the withstood the senior’s tactics as more like the seasoned veteran, student Sheenan down to the quick-punching sophomore Ho flailed with futile punches. as he remained poised and com-mat. In the third and final Cameron Shane def. Nicholas Kevin Dunne overcame the Walsh landed enough strikes to posed throughout the match round, Rodriguez came out “El Nuevo” Martinez height difference of his senior earn the victory by unanimous amid the senior’s wildly thrown aggressively, cornering Sheehan In control throughout the opponent. The lankier, taller decision. punches. The freshman knocked twice and landing a number of fight, the off-campus senior Dressing used his length to land Gallagher down multiple times, body shots. Rodriguez won by Shane defeated the Dillon fresh-several jabs but Dunne was Brian “The BK Special” using a combination of decep­unanimous decision. man Martinez. Following a quick to rebound using his agili-Koepsel def. Robert tive left jabs and overwhelming 
powerful punch from Shane, the ty to keep Dressing off balance “Hamburglar” Berger right hooks. Gallagher’s come-Anthony “Lucky” Lucisano def. freshman stumbled into the throughout the match. The In a hard-hitting affair, the off-back attempt was too-little-too-Connor Marr ropes but resisted going down. highlight of Dunne’s unyielding campus senior continually late as the freshman served up a 
The match started off with The bout had to be stopped on quickness came at the start of pounded the Zahm sophomore. diet of quick strikes that left his each sophomore fighter landing four different occasions because the second round, when the After a thunderous punch from opponent helpless. his share of strikes, but of blood coming from Martinez. sophomore was relentless with Koepsel, Berger stumbled but Lucisano’s intensity proved to be On the final stoppage, 30 sec-a fury of lightning-quick jabs refused to fall. The other two Ryan “Welcome to the Jungle” the difference. After knocking onds into the third round, the that rendered Dressing helpless rounds unfolded similarly, with Slaney def. Brian “Pope” down Marr with a powerful referee called the fight and and unable to recover in the end Koepsel pinning Berger on the Benedict right hook, Lucisano’s attack awarded the victory to Shane. as Dunne earned the unanimous ropes before raining down a The off-campus senior Slaney never ceased, landing punch victory. series punches, tiring out the hammered away early and often after punch on his opponent. Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti sophomore. The senior pulled against the Carroll sophomore Marr got off to a fast start with def. Joel Hlavaty Will “The Thrill” Peterson def. out a unanimous decision. Benedict, pulling away for a vic­a flurry of jabs to his opponent’s In a matchup between fresh-Jeff Wang tory. While the first round was headgear, but Lucisano seemed men, Hlavaty came out firing, In an uncharacteristically Michael “No Retreat” relatively equal, the remaining to get stronger as the fight pro-catching his opponent off bal-defensive fight, neither boxer McCormick def. Kevin Stewart two rounds leaned more gressed, using a lethal mix of ance with his left while pairing was able to land powerful Sophomore Michael towards Slaney. The senior was right hooks and left jabs on his jabs with winding strikes that punches on the other fighter. McCormick came out with a able to land consecutive shots way to a victory by unanimous rarely missed. Sassetti, however, The lanky O’Neill freshman profusion of energy — almost multiple times on the sopho­decision. worked his way back with quick Peterson, however, was able to too much energy. The sopho-more. Ultimately, one big hook 
body jabs that gave him room to gain an advantage on the Fisher more started off with a flurry of thrown by Slaney was the differ­143 pounds strike Hlavaty while ducking sophomore with body blows and punches, followed by numerous ence. Slaney won in a unani-Nicholas Bock def. John Flores potentially devastating blows timely shots to the head. The jabs that never gave freshman mous decision. 
Boosted by an early edge in from his opponent. Meanwhile, tired fighters exchanged right opponent Kevin Stewart any the first round, Bock hung on to Hlavaty came back strong with hooks in the third frame almost room to move in the opening Michael “The Mad Man” defeat Flores. In the early an eruption of strikes that near-simultaneously. In the end, round. The freshman soon Allare def. Sean Cogan going, Bock was able to land ly turned the match in his favor. though, Peterson pulled out a fought back, however, rebound-Sophomore Michael Allare multiple big blows on the But the strategy and power of unanimous decision to win. ing with a strong second round lived up to his nickname as he Keenan sophomore. Flores, Sassetti proved to be too much that contained his opponent’s came out of the gates like a however, battled back against as he used the corners to his Samuel “Can I Getta” erratic approach. McCormick mad man, landing multiple the off-campus senior in the advantage, limiting Hlavaty’s Kaulbach wins by default over rallied in the third round with a shots on Cogan and never look-final stanza, ducking the big agility while constantly landing Matthew Romano series of combinations to com-ing back. Allare completely hooks while also landing some quick strikes. Sassetti tri-Kaulbach advanced by default bat Stewart’s long reach despite dominated the first two rounds, shots on the tired Bock. It was umphed, in a fight that was due to a Romano injury. tiring out in the final minute, striking with a relentless fury not enough, however, as Bock much closer than the unani-earning a split decision win in a of quick punches as he kept his took a unanimous decision. mous decision would indicate. 148 pounds closely contested match. opponent off balance and 
Kevin Ortenzio def. Joshua retreating into the ropes. The Christopher “Sparta Hands” Timothy “Timbo Slice” Kissling “Sunshine” Whelan Benjamin “The Crusha from freshman Cogan tried to rely Torres def. Daniel Panzl def. James “Jay-Z” Ziemba Throwing punches early and Russia” Eichler def. on combinations using jabs to 
Freshman Christopher Torres A hotly contested first round often, the Siegfried junior Alessandro “Ale-Ale-ssandro” the body but Allare always had 
looked more like the senior in was highlighted by both fighters Ortenzio connected on many Cardenas an answer for them with a dev­of them, easily handling the In an entertaining back-and-astating right that shook up his Dillon freshman Whelan. forth affair, the St. Edward’s opponent, giving him the unan-Using a full repertoire of jabs, freshman Eichler was able to imous decision. hooks and uppercuts, Ortenzio outlast the Alumni sophomore continually cornered Whelan Cardenas. After being put on 154 pounds and hit him with body shots. the ropes in the first round, Thomas “The Mean Justifies The junior took a unanimous Cardenas responded by knock-the” Enzweiler def. Robert decision. ing Eichler down in the second “Bloomer” Blume 

Blume came out of the gate aggressively but Enzweiler maintained his composure and defense as Blume began to tire. In the final round Enzweiler went all-out with a few sub­stantial headshots that ulti­mately gave him the split deci­sion victory. 
Sean Mullen def. Philip “The Spear” Kissling 
Both fighters got off to a hec­tic start, wildly throwing punches without respite for the first half-minute. Mullen found relief in his low-based stance, which allowed the senior to gain leverage with a series of vicious uppercuts. Kissling con­stantly found himself backpedaling as Mullen con­trolled the match with a flur­ried onset followed by a more calculated approach using occasional strikes to the head. The freshman Kissling tried to recover midway through the second round but was stifled by Mullen’s merciless attack. Mullen won by unanimous decision in a battle that had the entire arena roaring with excitement. 
see CHOE/page 12 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2011 

Choe 
continued from page 11 
Inoh “Lights Out” Choe def. Andrew “The Juggernaut” Ofsonka 
The Hawaiian native Choe immediately set the tone with a blow that knocked Ofsonka to the ground within the first ten seconds of the contest. By the second round Choe’s power had all but overwhelmed the junior as Choe was declared the victor after the referee stopped the contest. 
Thomas “Stos” Voutsos def. Steve “The Flyin’ Hawaiian” Marzo 
Voutsos dominated the bout early on, landing several punch­es on the side of Marzo’s head. The fight had to be stopped so Marzo could receive medical attention, and although he returned to the fight, the next hard hit from Voutsos sent him reeling. The referee ended the contest while Marzo received help from the trainers for the second time to give Voutsos the win. 
Michael “Blinded by the White” Magill def. Nicholas “Just Ate a Hot Pocket” Blashill 
Though the contest of the Keough men began with impres­sive parrying on both sides, Magill started to take control of the fight late in the first round. Blashill tried to regain some ground in the second but Magill was able to defend the haphaz­ard attack. Magill owned the third round, and the judges rewarded him with a unani­mous victory. 
Nick “The Renegade” Raic def. Chris “The Italian Stallion” Losco 
Raic and Losco came out of the gates quickly, and neither was able to gain the upper hand in an exciting first round. In the ensuing round, however, Losco suffered a punch to the nose, and several visits from the medical staff were not enough to stop the bleeding. Although the Stanford sopho­more continued fighting aggressively in between trips to the trainers and seemed more than willing to continue the contest, the referee was forced to halt the action and awarded the victory to Raic. 
Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz def. Matthew “The Madman” Peters 
A sophomore and runner-up to last year’s title, Oloriz con­trolled the freshman Peters from the outset, alternating between head and body shots as Peters tried to defend. Oloriz landed two big head-shots that knocked Peters’ mouth guard loose, and though Peters stuck around until the final bell, Oloriz gar­nered a unanimous victory. 
Greg “Come On Big Orca!” Cunningham def. Alex “Thunder Road” Richer 
Cunningham was in control of the fight the whole way, repeatedly backing Richer into the ropes. Although Richer began the third round with renewed energy, an offensive barrage from Cunningham again pushed the lanky senior into a corner. Soon afterwards, Cunningham knocked out Richer’s mouth guard, and the action was suspended while it was cleaned. Although the two fighters were able to go the distance, Cunningham was declared the victor by unani­mous decision. 
157 pounds 
Jamie “Sweet Rays of Sunshine” Koepsel def. Samuel “Man of War” Roskos 
The senior versus freshman bout began energetically with neither fighter gaining a signifi­cant advantage in the first round. Koepsel, the senior, tried to go for the kill in the second but a quick Roskos was able to dance away from it. By the third round, Koespel managed to gain control as he trapped Roskos in a corner and ulti­mately earned a unanimous decision victory. 
Jeff “Lil’ Bear” Ulrich def. Stephen “Big Steve” Mattingly 
The two fighters traded punches early on, but Ulrich turned up the heat late in the first round, chasing the senior Mattingly around the ring. Both appeared winded between the first and second rounds, but Ulrich opened the second round with a vicious hit to Mattingly’s head. The senior was knocked woozy and never recovered, and the referee ended the fight early, granting Ulrich the victory by the referee stopping the con­test. 
Daniel Leicht def. Kyle “No Name Just Game” Kober 
The true nickname-less fighter won the day in a very close con­test of two quick and evenly matched sophomores. Both struggled to maintain defensive position as the fighters went punch for punch throughout the bout. Ultimately, Leicht pulled out the victory in a split deci­sion. 
Paul “Hawaii K.O.” Hayes def. Steven Bischoff 
Hayes did not waste any time in the opening seconds of his match, opening so aggressively that even his cheering section advised him to calm down. But the senior did not need any of their hints — Bischoff was in trouble from the first few sec­onds, and Hayes dealt several strong blows to the Alumni freshman as the first round ended. Hayes swung and missed Bischoff early in the second round, and the freshman took the opportunity to land a body shot on the momentarily vulner­able senior. But Hayes recov­ered and trapped Bischoff against the ropes, and the refer­ee, clearly concerned for the freshman’s safety, stopped the contest, declaring Hayes the winner by the referee stopping the contest. 
William “The Haymaker” Hayman def. Steve “Kraska Steve” Kraska 
The Knott senior went after the Dillon sophomore from the outset. Though Kraska made a valiant attempt to turn it around in the second round, Hayman was able to land a devastating blow to the face that left Kraska 
see KRASKA/page 13 


Tuesday, February 15, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
both fighters trying to pace Bishop unleashed a set of com-In the third, both fighters con-started the third round by pin-themselves, the senior quickly bos, for a relatively even first sistently traded punches, but ning his opponent against the 


Kraska 

took control and never relin-round. Bishop came out firing in Hull used the advantage he ropes, Salvi finished with a flur­continued from page 12 quished it. Knocking the fresh-the second round, putting gained in the second round for ry of punches and earned the 
man’s mouth guard out in both Sandberg on his heels multiple the unanimous decision. unanimous decision. reeling and bleeding. Again in the first and the second, Howell times, and landing a few big the third Kraska came out was relentless. A clear unani-punches. Sandberg came out David “Mountain Man” Gray Daniel Griess def. James aggressively, but Hayman’s mous decision victory went to strong in the third round, land-def. Terrence “The Relentless” “Rambo” Fultz overall control of the fight the senior. ing a few jabs, but Bishop was Rogers After a slow start to the fight earned him a split decision vic-able to avoid Sandberg’s where each fighter sought to tory. Matthew “It’s Almost Wake attempts by moving quickly and Both the senior Gray and the exploit the other’s weaknesses, 
Week” Labriola def. Tim “St. with conviction in the waning graduate student Rogers landed the freshman Griess took con-Colin “The Lion” King def. Alec Broseph” Bossidy moments of the fight, giving the a few punches early in the bout, trol towards the end of the first “Hot Like Sauce” Hollis Junior Labriola and senior Alumni Dawg a split decision but Gray gained the upper hand round, cornering the sophomore 
The bout began with fists fly-Bossidy remained evenly victory over the fifth-year senior. late in the first round with some Fultz and landing multiple jabs ing and neither fighter was able matched through the first uppercuts and combos. The 55-to the face. Griess carried this to gain the upper hand despite round, but Labriola quickly Ryan Alberdi def. Ian Sperry year-old Rogers, three-time aggression into the second Hollis’ early slip. The first round gained momentum in the second Alberdi immediately took con-Bengal Bouts runner-up in the round, sending Fultz into a was interrupted when the round, burying Bossidy with a trol of the match, knocking 1970s, landed a big punch early defensive stance by landing O’Neill junior required medical flurry of punches. When Bossidy Sperry into the ropes early in in the second round, but as the numerous jabs to his head. attention, but neither fighter attempted to return the favor, the first round, and then throw-round continued, Gray’s youth Needing a strong third round to distinguished himself until the the Alumni junior darted out of ing the Duncan freshman off allowed him to take advantage turn the tide, Fultz came out second round, when King came danger. In the third round, balance in the final seconds of of Rogers’ fatigue and gain con-aggressive, but Griess weath­out strong, beating the junior Labriola pushed Bossidy into the the first round. Sperry struck trol of the fight. Rogers, with ered the storm and reasserted into a corner, and then knocking ropes, and the senior was back after the break, striking help from an enthusiastic and control over the fight. Griess him around the ring. The refer-unable to retaliate because of an the Sorin sophomore so hard supportive crowd, came out proved victorious by unanimous ee stopped the fight when Hollis apparent shoulder problem. that he tumbled to the ground. aggressively in the third round, decision. was not able to protect himself Bossidy was able to finish the But Alberdi quickly rose and but as it drew on, he struggled against a barrage of blows to match, but Labriola won by dealt a blow to Sperry that to maintain his momentum. Christopher “Fuhaluvus” the side of the head, making unanimous decision. necessitated attention from the Gray took over late in the fight LaCosta def. Nick “Ice Cream “The Lion” King the victor by trainers. Both fighters were with his footwork and punches Paint Job” Grady the referee stopping the contest. Alec “Pretty Boy” MacDonell exhausted by the action-packed to earn a unanimous decision 
def. Alexander Yurkowski second round, and after a third victory. Both fighters used similar Ryan Carey def. Jacob “The Both freshmen fighters came round that was also interrupted styles in employing footwork Dancing Bear” Baranek out firing in the first round with for Sperry’s nose, the judges John Healy def. Timothy and athleticism to dodge the 
Right from the get-go both aggressive strategies. Towards declared Alberdi the winner by Sweeney other’s blows. These styles fighters tried to gain an edge as the end of the first round, the unanimous decision. Early on, very few jabs and resulted in a fight with few suc­they traded blow for blow. freshman MacDonell began to close punches were thrown by cessful punches by either com-Eventually in the second, connect with a series of combos Dan “The Polish Hammer” either the senior Sweeney or the petitor and much movement Baranek landed an incredibly and gained the upper hand. The Jasinski def. Peter Tenerielo sophomore Healy. Both fighters around the ring. The junior powerful blow that nearly second round saw few punches Both fighters began the match attempted to land many punch-LaCosta, however, landed more knocked Carey out of the ring landed, as both fighters began strong. The junior Tenerielo es, with each connecting on a successful punches, especially in entirely. Carey was able to rally to deal with fatigue. Yurkowski used footwork to avoid the law few. The aggressive, high-inten-the first and third rounds. This in the third, however, and make came out strong in the third student Jasinski’s punches, and sity fight continued in the sec-effort allowed LaCosta to prevail a comeback as he earned a split round, but ran out of gas as connected with combinations to ond round, with both fighters in a unanimous decision. decision win. MacDonell staved off the assault move ahead early in the round. landing big punches. Healy took 
and won by unanimous decision. Jasinski finished the round the advantage late in the second Jake “One Blow” Joe def. 160 pounds strong, landing numerous round. In the third round, the Andrew “Hitmonchan” Robert Powers def. James Mark “Ridin’ Solo” Iandolo def. punches. In the second round, referee had to check Healy after Kwasnieski “Jimbo Slice” Bowers Christopher DeLillo neither fighter could gain con-a big punch. Healy, however, Joe, while not knocking his 
After a slow first round, both Iandolo and DeLillo kept the trol, until Jasinski knocked rebounded and hit Sweeney competitor out in one actual fighters began the second round fight close for all three rounds, Tenerielo against the ropes just with a sweeping punch and con-blow, didn’t waste many in on the offensive. The bout had and neither faded before the before the bell. tinued unleashing a barrage of defeating Kwasnieski, Joe’s to be stopped to clean the blood final bell. Neither inflicted much The third round started off blows. Sweeney knocked Healy domination began in the middle off of the sophomore Bowers, damage on the other through slow, but ended with both fight-to the floor against the ropes of the first round when his pow-who then returned to the fight the first two rounds, but a new ers trading blows. Ultimately, just as the match ended, but it erful left-right combo to with renewed energy. Bowers urgency was apparent at the Jasinski took control late to earn was not enough, as Healy won Kwasnieski’s face caused the began to tire noticeably in the beginning of the third round, the unanimous decision. the split decision. junior’s nose to bleed, which third round, and was no longer when it became clear that the forced the referee to delay the making contact with Powers. match would be decided by 167 pounds Brian “Yeah, Cool Beans” Salvi contest. When the fight Powers then knocked the sopho-points. Both tried to get in a few William “I Sunk your def. Dallas “Bonzi” Bunsa resumed, the sophomore Joe more from Zahm across the body shots in an attempt to col-Battleship” Hull def. Giovanni In the first round, law-student continued to land shots to his face, leaving Bowers unsteady lect points, and the senior Angles Salvi initiated multiple jabs to opponent’s face, and, early in and in need of medical atten-Iandolo landed a few swats on Hull, a senior, used lots of jabs the head with his quick left-the third round, the referee tion. Although the Zahmbie was the head of DeLillo. The judges in the first round, while the law right combo, overwhelming his ended the match due to the able to return to finish the bout, unanimously decided to award student Angles utilized a set of sophomore opponent. At the damage to Kwasnieski’s nose, the judges named Powers win-the match in favor of Iandolo. combos in his arsenal. Both same time, he showcased agile and Joe won by the referee ner by unanimous decision. knocked the other to the ropes footwork in dodging Bunsa’s stopping the contest. 
Pat “Boom Boom” Bishop def. once before the first bell. Hull counter-blows. Salvi’s domina-
Contact Andrew Gastelum at 

Terry “Twinkle Toes” Howell Martin “El Matador” Sandberg used supreme footwork to avoid tion continued in the second 
wbrink@nd.edu,

def. Tyler “The Original” The senior Sandberg began most of Angles’ attempts in the round, with the referee tem-

Matt DeFranks at 

Christensen the fight utilizing a series of second round, while landing porarily stopping the fight for 

mdefrank@nd.edu,

Though the bout began with jabs, while the sophomore many combos, to take control. Bunsa to recover. While Bunsa 
Victoria Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu, Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu, Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu, Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu and Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 




page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2011 
East Men’s Diving Coach of the strong performance. mers will finish the meet 
they hope Notre Dame’s swim-Year for the eighth time in his illus-“We value the work that 



Grossman 
Lex 

trious career, but only reluctantly Caiming does as a coach,” Welsh continued from page 16 “Going into the swimming, 
strong next weekend. 
acknowledges his feat. said, “and [we are] very proud of 
continued from page 16 

“It’s okay, I guess,” he said, “but what our divers accomplished.” has allowed her to improve Louisville in team points. I’m 
we are only slightly ahead of 

we don’t want to keep the awards Having done their part, the individually. hoping that we got some 
Villaflor earned a fourth place fin-for one person.” divers must now wait for the “The Big East has recently momentum going into next 
ish, and sophomore Ryan Koter Caiming’s selfless attitude rubs swimming portion of the tourna­become more competitive, week so our swimmers can go 
placed sixth. off on his divers, as it is clear that ment later this week as Notre which is great. The competi-into the meet already competi-
Irish diving coach Caiming Xie they are all competing for the Dame tries to bring home the con­tion helps us all do better,” tive with Louisville,” 
was pleased with his divers’ per-team rather than for individual ference championship. she said. “Hannah Gadd is a Grossman said. “Even though 
formances. success. “We try and go out and just get great diver and I really enjoy it's a slight lead, it was impor­
“Overall it was a great, excellent “Cai is great,” Geary said. “You as many points as possible for our competing against her. It’s tant to set the tone going into 
weekend,” Caiming said. “The build a really strong bond with swimmers,” Geary said, “because always more fun to have a the next week of competition.” 
seniors did a good job taking lead-your coach. It was great to [per-it is a joint effort to win the meet. friendly rival to help push you 
ership of really the whole team the form so well] for him, for the team, At least we’ve gotten our swim-to perform better.” Contact Megan Golden at 
whole year ... They did great, fight-for everyone.” mers excited.” Chiang and Grossman said mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
ing for every point during the Welsh said he realizes how valu­
meet.” able a coach like Caiming can be Contact Joseph Monardo at 
Caiming was named the Big to a team, especially after such a jmonardo@nd.edu 
included 10 lead changes and eight ties with a decisive 24-3 run. Saint 
motto: ‘Whatever it Takes’ and I Tournament for the last three 


Paradiso 
Mary’s held the Britons to 1-for-7 think it’s fitting,” Coyne said. “They years, the Irish are just 1-3 with 


Irish
shooting while forcing eight 
are willing to do whatever it takes two losses to Northwestern. turnovers during an 11:29 stretch. 
continued from page 16 

continued from page 16 to win.” Coyne, however, said she is confi­9-for-12 effort. Paradiso also fin-“At times, our defense can be 
This batch of seniors is led by dent her seniors can lead the ished with her first career double-really great,” Henley said. “We just 
ished 3-12. In the last three years, the All-Americans Blaney and team, much like past senior class-double, registering 13 points and need to be consistent on defense.” 
however, Notre Dame has won Doherty — two of the 13 All-es have. career-high 13 rebounds, 11 of With the win, the Belles now trail 
nearly 70 percent of its games and Americans in program history — This year’s class reminds Coyne which came off the offensive glass. third-place Albion by only one 
these seven players are a big rea-and is supported by All-Big East of both the senior classes on the Paradiso was one of five Belles game in the MIAA standings with 
son why. performer Abt. 2002 squad that made the pro-who scored in double figures, con-two conference games remaining 
“Obviously, they have gotten bet-During No. 10 Notre Dame’s gram’s first NCAA Tournament tinuing Saint Mary’s balanced scor-before the conference tournament 
ter but their biggest development two-game west coast split with Cal appearance and the 2004 team ing trend. The Belles have four begins. 
has been their mentality,” Irish and No. 14 Stanford over the that garnered the Irish’s highest players averaging over 10 points “At this point in the season, we 
coach Tracy Coyne said. “What weekend, Blaney contributed two national ranking. per game and have three of the top just want to be playing our best 
makes this group special is that goals and three assists while Abt “They have the attitude, skill seven scorers in the conference. basketball as we prepare to finish 
they have individually different added two goals and an assist. and commitment to get it done. “Much of our success this season out the regular season and head 
skill sets.” Doherty, meanwhile, controlled six They set high goals for themselves is due to the fact we are well bal-into MIAA Tournament play,” 
Since Abt, Blaney, Keena, draws and scooped up six ground and I have high standards for anced,” Henley said. “We have a lot Henley said. “We are happy to start 
Doherty, Stewart and Locasto have balls. them.” Coyne said. “They have the of different weapons on offense and the tournament by hosting the first 
joined the team, the Irish have In the fall, against Saturday’s opportunity to be the first group to our team is very unselfish.” round of play.” 
won 39 of 58 games. These sen-opponent Northwestern, the Irish have four NCAA Tournament Junior forward Kelley Murphy The Belles finish their regular 
iors have combined for 326 career were able to break through appearances and two Big East led the Belles, scoring 14 points, season home slate when they 
appearances, 316 goals, 95 assists against the Wildcats for a big win, titles.” capping her 52nd career game with return to Angela Athletic Facility 
and 413 ground balls. Over the and the seniors had a lot to do If they do, they’ll accomplish the 10 or more points. Albion junior Wednesday to play Adrian (7-15, 4­
last three years, they have with that. Fenlon had a crucial lofty goals they have set for them-forward Patty Rewa led all scorers 11). 
accounted for 41 percent of the draw control and Doherty drew a selves and the team. with 20 points. 
team’s goals and 37 percent of the charge late to seal the game for During the second half, the Belles Contact Matt DeFranks at 
team’s ground balls. Notre Dame. Contact Matt DeFranks at broke open a close game that mdefrank@nd.edu 
“The seniors came up with the Despite advancing to the NCAA mdefrank@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  
58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  


Tuesday, February 15, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 
57 Kind of party forGlenn Beck? 
58 Most-played partof a 45 
59 What 17-, 24-,34-and 51­Across are 
61 Transport in a western 
62 Result of overexercise 
63 Anything ___ 
64 Landlord's sign 
65 Tool building
66 “The NeverendingStory” authorMichael 
Down 
1 Presidential first name that comes from Genesis 
2 Holy wars 
3 Hodgepodge
4 One skilled in CPR 5 Good Joe 6 Number after 
tres 7 Take for ___(hoodwink)8 Cambodia's Lon 
9 Astronaut in a 1973 David Bowie hit 
10 Farsi speaker 
11 Obtain (from)
12 Old codger
13 Tribal V.I.P.'s 
18 Polite reply from a ranch hand 
22 “Come on, ___ you!” 
25 St. John's ___ (herbal remedy) 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Sharon Delorme  
31 Knight's title 32 Reply to a captain33 Typist's speed:Abbr. 35 Record of arrests 36 Certain print, forshort 37 “Put a tiger inyour tank” brand  38 Drink 39 Like some decorative cookware 42 Standoff 43 Horrified 44 Blue blood,informally 45 Goodyearoffering  47 Militaryhelicopter48 Became attentive, with“up”49 Formerly, inolden days 52 Swamp plant 53 Doggie 59 ___ in cat 60 Get on in years  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


Across 
1 Top point 5 Thom ___ footwear 9 Barbie the doll's best friend 14 A cowboy hathas a wide one 15 Continental 
money 
16 Dizzy 
17 Something found
in an old board,
maybe 
19 ___ Fogle,spokesman forSubway 
20 Fire remnant 
21 Cornerstone abbr. 
22 Charge, to a physicist 23 Show-off in a 
show 
24 Tool belt tool 
26 Toothpaste tube
letters 
27 Measure of conductance 28 Mare's morsel 29 Triage sites,briefly 30 Big job for a housekeeper 32 It has feathers and flies 
34 Little girl in1935's “Our Little Girl” 
40 Up, as the ante 41 Prefix with bus 43 Swiss river to 

the Rhine 46 Quart divs. 47 Gibbon, for one 50 “Batman” sound 
effect 51 Term of endearment for 

the Karate Kid 54 Speaker's place 55 Cab Calloway's
signature line 56 Rowboat pair 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

S  L  A  V  S  D  U  C  T  S  P  A  T  
D  A  M  O  N  A  S  H  E  P  I  T  A  
A  M  O  C  O  L  E  A  H  I  C  A  N  
K  A  R  A  O  K  E  S  C  R  E  E  N  
B  T  U  H  A  M  L  I  N  
T  E  E  S  A  N  T  A  N  A  C  E  S  
A  C  M  E  L  I  E  G  R  A  P  H  
C  H  A  P  A  L  C  A  N  B  R  A  E  
I  O  N  I  A  H  M  O  S  E  L  L  
T  E  C  T  H  E  S  I  M  S  A  I  L  
D  I  T  T  O  S  S  A  S  
P  I  N  G  P  O  N  G  T  A  B  L  E  
S  P  A  M  T  A  T  I  R  U  L  E  D  
P  A  T  E  I  N  O  N  A  C  T  E  D  
A  W  E  D  E  A  S  E  P  E  S  K  Y  

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY
PLEASANDVILLE 


SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT
MATING RITUAL 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
VAMUE  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
RAPEP  

 
 
 
 
 

GORNTS  

 
 
 
 
 
 

GINPTY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

“ 

” 
A: THE 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GNARL ICING ARTFUL ENTICEYesterday’s 
Answer: When the guitarist auditioned for the band, he was — “FRETTING” 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer






Sports

Tuesday, February 15, 2011 page 16 
BENGAL BOUTS 

It’s a-Bout time 
Boxing tournament beginswithpreliminaries 
By ANDREW GASTELUM, MATT DEFRANKS, VICTORIA JACOBSEN, KELSEY MANNING, MATT UNGER, SAM GANS, JACK HEFFERON and CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writers 
134 pounds 
Nicholas “N” Rowek def. John “The Forgetful Housecat” Garvin 

The 81st Bengal Bouts began with a dandy, as the two fight­ers squared off with a blast of energy that set the tone for the day’s events. The freshman Garvin started the first round with an array of fierce right hooks but Rowek took over from there. The sophomore relied on quick jabs and strikes to the body while connecting on several blows to Garvin’s head, which eventually proved to be too much. After a back-and-GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
O’Neill freshman Will Peterson throws a punch during his fight against Fisher see GARVIN/page 11 sophomore Jeff Wang on Sunday at the Joyce Center. 

SMC BASKETBALL 


Belles set to break tworecords 

By MATT DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
With a 68-59 win at Albion (12­11, 10-4 MIAA) Saturday, the Belles (16-7, 9-5) are just one victory away from tying a school record for wins in a season. 
In addition to breaking the 2008­09 Belles’ wins record, this year’s squad is also on pace to break that team’s record for made free throws in a season. The current Belles team leads the MIAA with 482 made free throws, just two shy of the Saint Mary’s record. 
“We have never set out to set or break records like that,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “We just work on improving each and every game.” 
Saint Mary’s shot 24-for-34 from the free throw line, compared to the Britons’ 6-for-13. Freshman forward Domini Paradiso led the Belles from the charity stripe with a 
see PARADISO/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 


Irish claim top spot as Big East Championships approach 
score of 337.40 to narrowly Grossman placed fourth in the scores of 301.60 and 297.70, “I am happy with how both 

By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Louisville’s Hannah Gadd, who 3-meter dive and was quick to respectively. Jenny and I performed,” 
Sports Writer 
scored a 334.80. praise Chiang. “Going into Big East, regard-Grossman said. “We were both 
“I was very happy with my “Jenny had a great 3-meter less of what place I finished in, composed under the pressure 

Strong performances on the performance. I feel that I was and I’m glad she was able to I wanted to dive my best and of being at Louisville — they diving boards this weekend able to channel my nerves well hold off Hannah Gadd,” end my season with two great had a lot of fans — and [dove] vaulted Notre Dame into first-and use them to my advan-Grossman said. “The competi-meets, which I accomplished,” our best under pressure. place as the team heads into tage. The team performed tion was tough, definitely the Grossman said. “And I am Hannah dove well on both the swimming portion of the very well overall,” Chiang most competitive Big East final happy I was able to get All-Big boards and had a lot of sup-Big East Championships next said. “I think everyone did a I’ve been in.” East honors on [the 1-meter].” port from her team, as it was weekend. great job of staying focused In the 1-meter event, Gadd Grossman emphasized the at her home pool.” 
Sophomore Jenny Chiang and not letting the perform-placed first with a score of importance of the team’s com-Chiang said strong competi­opened the meet for the Irish, ance of other teams affect 329.95. Chiang took home sec-posure while competing in tion throughout the Big East placing first in the women’s 3-them.” ond place and Grossman fol-front of Louisville’s home meter dive. Chiang recorded a Senior captain Heidi lowed in third place with crowd. see GROSSMAN/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 


Notre Dame seniors shine 
By MATT DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
In the Big East, talent is prevalent but experience is golden. This year, Notre Dame’s seniors have both. 
The six returning seniors and one graduate student — midfielders Kailene Abt, Shaylyn Blaney, Kaitlin Keena, defenders Jackie Doherty, Lauren Fenlon and attacks Ansley Stewart and Meredith Locasto — have arguably been one of the most successful classes in Irish history. 
The Class of 2011 made history when they won the Big East Championship in 2009 and 2010, becoming the first team in program history to make the NCAA Tournament three consecutive sea­sons. 
Just six years ago, the Irish fin-
see IRISH/page 14 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 


Squad dominates in diving portion of meet 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame enjoyed a success­ful weekend at the Big East Championships in Louisville as all five Irish divers earned points for their team. The Irish (6-4 regular season) swept both events and took a 74-point lead over second place Louisville, the league’s reigning champion, heading into the swimming portion of the championships. 
“What a grand performance,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “It’s gotten our Big East Championship meet off to a great start.” 
Senior Nathan Geary placed first from the 3-meter board, leading the way for fellow seniors Wes Villaflor and Eric Lex, who finished third and fourth in the event, respectively. As a result of Geary’s victory, each of Notre Dame’s senior divers has at least one individual Big East title to his name. 
“I was diving pretty well during the season,” Geary said, “but I never had a meet where it all came together like it did [in the Big East Tournament] on the 3­meter.” 
Lex placed first from the 1­meter board for the other Irish victory and was named the League’s Most Outstanding Diver, a title bestowed on Villaflor at last year’s league championship. Behind Lex in the 1-meter, 
see LEX/page 14 





