

Community remembers fifth-year student 
Murphy loses battle with leukemia; loved ones recall his ‘amazing energy,’ love for University family 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
Xavier Murphy, a fifth-year student and former resident of Zahm Hall, died Tuesday after a short battle with cancer. He was 22. 
Zahm Rector Corry Colonna said he and Mur­phy both joined Zahm in 2007 and got to know each other well during Mur­phy’s four years in the dorm. 
“He had an amazing energy about him, always so positive. He greeted everyone with a big smile,” Colonna said. “He was soft-spoken but confident and always respectful.  He had a sensitivity about him that at-




tracted others to him.” 


see MURPHY/page 5 


SMC holds first year discussion 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College’s Com­mon Experience program con­cluded for the semester Tues­day night with a short film and a student-led panel discussion, both of which focused on diver­sity and the problem of stereo­typing other cultures. 
The Common Experience, a component of the Cross Cur­rents Program, is designed to educate and mentor first year students at the College, spot­lighting issues crucial to the first-year experience. 
Susan Vanek, associate dean of advising, said the Cross Cur­rents Program helps first years navigate the educational and social landscapes of the College. 
“The goal and purpose of Common Experience is to intro­duce students to the importance of their education,” Vanek said. “Liberal arts and diversity are the cornerstone of a first rate college education.” 

see COLLEGE/page 6 



ND builds fourth accelerator 

By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
Not many universities can boast having a nuclear accel­erator right at the center of campus. 
But when work is complete in the spring, the Niewland Hall of Science will house the University’s fourth and largest nuclear accelerator, providing students with the chance to engage in nuclear research. 
The new accelerator is part of a $5 million project aim­ing to improve Notre Dame’s research facilities, Philippe Collon, associate professor of physics, said. 

“The project is unique in that it is the first nuclear ac­celerator on a college cam­pus that the National Science Foundation has agreed to fund in about 20 or 30 years,” he said. 
Collon said Notre Dame is providing half of the funding for the project, while the other half comes from the National Science Foundation. 
When the accelerator is com­

plete, about 15 undergraduate 
students will have the opportu­
nity to take part in nuclear re­
search each year, Collon said. 
Collon said the accelerator 

will reproduce nuclear reac­
tions that take place in the 
sun and the stars by colliding 
particles at extremely high ve­
locities with a fixed object. He 
compared the process to tak­
ing apart a clock. 
“You take it apart to see what 


see NUCLEAR/page 5 


Business competition offers prize 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
The search is on for the next great idea. 
Now in its 12th year, the Mc-Closkey Business Plan Compe­tition invites students, alumni and faculty to submit both prof­it and nonprofit business ven­tures, competing for a grand prize of $20,000. 
Laura Hollis, director of the Gigot Center for Entrepreneur­ial Studies, said the competi­tion is on the lookout for unique ventures, especially those geared toward addressing so­cial issues. 
“There are no impediments and any reason not to enter isn’t good enough as far as I’m con­cerned,” Hollis said. “If you’ve ever said somebody ‘oughta’ make something, you have an idea. What’s there to risk?” 
She said the best way to ap­proach the competition, or any business venture, is to consider what problems exist and create 


see BUSINESS/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council discusses sexual assault page 4 u Viewpoint page 8 u Umphrey’s McGee comes to Fever page 10 u Men’s soccer prepares for Marquette page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU DARE TO DO IF YOU KNEW YOU COULD NOT FAIL? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Andrew Gastelum Mel Flanagan Cory Bernard Jillian Barwick Joe Wirth Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Ankur Chawla Photo Viewpoint Pat Coveney Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 75 LOW 55 


Arianna Thelen  Brendan Ward  Linsey McMullen  Maria Fahs  Liz McBride  
first year  junior  first year  sophomore  sophomore  
McCandless  Sorin  McCandless  Breen-Phillips  Le Mans  
“Be an offensive  “It’s hard for  “Paint a portrait  “Write a book.”  “Give myself an  
line [wo]man for  me not to be  of the queen.”  A in Biology.”  
the Notre Dame  vulgar...”  
football team.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Weed brownies hospitalize 3 when served at funeral 
HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif., — Pot-laced brownies served at a Southern Califor­nia funeral sent three people to the emergency room over the weekend, Huntington Beach police said. 
Two 71-year-old women and an 82-year-old man were taken to a hospital emergency room Saturday following a friend’s memo­rial service, where a tray of pot brownies was offered. They complained of nausea, dizziness and an inability to stand without assistance. 
The three, residents of Huntington Beach and New­port Beach, didn’t know the marijuana-laced sweets were being offered in mem­ory of their friend, who ate marijuana brownies. Police say the baked goods were put out without any an­nouncement about what was in them. 

Huntington Beach does not permit licensed medical marijuana dispensaries in the city limits. Federal au­thorities announced Friday they plan to crack down on marijuana sales and grow­ing operations throughout the state. 
Brawl over dead deer leaves 2 hospitalized 
BUSHKILL, Pa. — Two men have been hospitalized after a fight over a deer car­cass in northeastern Penn­sylvania. 
State police say the alter­cation happened in Lehm­an Township on Saturday. That’s when 33-year-old Bethlehem resident Jason Frey says he shot a deer and tracked it to a property owned by 48-year-old An­thony Contino Sr. 
The Times-Tribune of Scranton reports authorities say Frey approached Con­tino, who told him the deer was his and that an associ­ate had shot it earlier that day. Contino then told Frey to leave the property. 
They were reported in sta­ble condition. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Today from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. there will be a Custom Executive Education pro­gram provided for by Notre Dame Human Resources lo­cated in Room 133 in Men­doza College of Business. 
Pre-registration is required. For more information call Executive Education at 574­631-5285. 
Today in the Joyce Cen­ter Concourse (gate 2, sec­ond floor) the 2011 Sup­plier Expo will be set up from 12:30 to 4 p.m. hosted by Procurement Services. There will be over 40 sup­pliers present at this event. Light refreshments will be provided. 

This evening from 4 to 5 
p.m. the Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics will be hosting a colloquium titled, “High Order Meth­ods in NASA’s Next Genera­tion of Computational Fluid Dynamics Tools,” by David Schuster, NASA Technical Fellow for Aerosciences and NASA Engineering and Safe­ty Center. This event will be held in Room 127 in the Hayes-Healy Center. 

Tonight from 7:30 to 8:30 
p.m. join Ed Vasta while he reads in tribute to Richard Sullivan at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Vas­ta will be honoring Sullivan, his creative writing profes­sor and faculty colleague at Notre Dame by reading, 
“The Little Hidden Apple,” 
Vasta’s his first short story which was published with Sullivan’s help. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 









HIGH 66 LOW 50 
HIGH 60 LOW 46 
HIGH 61 LOW 47 
HIGH 56 LOW 45 



STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 



Group debates decorating tunnel 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Gov­ernment Association (SGA) discussed during its meeting Tuesday the possibility of decorating the Le Mans Hall Tunnel, which currently has plain walls. 
The Le Mans Hall Tunnel connects the dormitory to the Student Center and al­lows for easier transporta­tion between buildings dur­ing the winter months. 
The current tunnel was renovated a few years ago. Members of SGA suggested in last week’s meeting there be an opportunity for stu­dents to create murals for the interior of the tunnel. 
Emma Brink, student body secretary, said the plan is still in the works. 
“We have not officially de­cided anything yet, but we all did come up with a lot of different ideas last week,” she said. 
Nicole Gans, student body president, said any kind of decoration would be an im­provement from the current stark walls. 
“Anything is better than creepy walls,” she said. 
Student Service Commis­sioner Laura Glaub said SGA has considered the option of having multiple murals in the tunnel to allow many different students to leave their marks. 
Brink said the length of the tunnel would allow for multiple different murals.
 “We should have multiple murals because the tunnel is so large,” Brink said. 
During Tuesday’s meeting, members drafted an email that will be sent out to Saint Mary’s students as early as this week. 
SGA members said they wanted the email to be able to capture students’ atten­tion, and wanted to avoid having a lengthy description about the project that would deter students from becom­ing involved. 
Following Tuesday’s meet­ing, SGA will move forward with approving the email and sending it out to stu­dents. The email could be sent out by this week, giving students the time to work on their ideas over fall break if they choose. 
Jackie Zupancic, student body vice president, sug­gested last week that the student body should be al­lowed to vote on the submis­sions. 
If SGA chooses to move forward with the submission deadline, members agreed it would be Nov. 22, right be­fore Thanksgiving Break. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 



SMC hosts lecture on feminist Scripture views 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Sr. Barbara Reid said Tuesday reading the Scriptures from a feminist perspective can help il­luminate realities of women in the modern world. 
The Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary’s College invited Reid, a Dominican Sister of Grand Rapids, Mich., and vice president and academic dean of the Catho­lic Theological Union, to lecture to the community Tuesday about reading the Scriptures from a feminist perspective. 
Reid began the lecture, “Read­ing the Scriptures with the Mind, Eyes and Heart of a Woman,” by describing how she became in­volved in reading the Scriptures from a feminist perspective. She said while she was teaching a course on the Gospel of Mark, one of her students had a very intriguing opinion on the middle of the text. 


“All of a sudden, one of my students told me to stop for a minute, claiming she hated the passage and would rip it out of the Bible if she could,” Reid said. “I was totally clueless on where her feelings were coming from, so she explained that she had worked in the shelter for abused women and how so many of these women would not come for help because they believed they must take up the cross just as Je­sus had and suffer through their pain.” 
Reid said that when these women finally did seek help, they turned to their priests, who then just told them to return to their husbands. 
While on sabbatical in Novem­ber of 2003, Reid had the oppor­tunity to travel in parts of Latin America, where she asked her hosts to connect her with groups of women in the area so that they could converse about their ap­proaches to reading the Scrip­tures as women. 
“Many of my experiences with women in Latin America took this interpretation literally as well, which made me think that there has to be a different way,” she said. 
Reid said she takes a seven-step approach to reading the Scriptures from a feminist per­spective. 
Seeing and analyzing women’s realities is the first step. This in­cludes the number of women liv­ing in poverty, the number that are illiterate, women’s wages and violence against women. 
“If we were to look at the reali­ties of the women in our world, in general, these are realities that describe the way that it is for most women in the world,” she said.  “These are just a few of the struggles and difficulties that many women in our world face on a daily basis.” 
Reid said the next steps include critical inquiry, critical evalua­tion, remembering and recon­struction, creative imagination and transformative action. 
The final step is seeing female images of God in the Scriptures. 
Reid said she believes there are many signs of hope and joy for women, and said she is very enthusiastic about reading the Scriptures through a feminist perspective. 
“The whole world is turning its eyes toward the reality of wom­en,” she said. 

Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 




COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Members discuss sexual assault issue 


By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Student leaders can aid the fight against campus sexual as­sault, Dr. G. David Moss, interim director of the Gender Relations Council, said at the Council of Representatives’ (COR) Monday meeting. 
Moss and Sr. Sue Dunn, who co-chair the Committee on Sex­ual Assault Prevention, offered COR members a presentation on assault prevention and aware­ness. 
Moss said his committee hopes to garner more student-led dia­logue on sexual assault. 
“We are working hard to eradicate sexual violence from our campus,” he said. “We need to begin a different kind of con­versation on campus, and we’re hoping with student sup­port we can begin from 


“It’s not going to change 
the grass-need to talk to roots.” until we begin to someone [con-
Moss said confront some of these fidentially],” he the drinking ill-conceived notions of said. culture at what it means to socialize The Clery Act, Notre Dame on this campus, to have a federal man-is deeply in-relationships, to have date, requires tertw ined certain univer­
intimacy. We need to have 
with the is-sity personnel to 
some tough dialogue.” 
sue of sexual report incidents misconduct. of assault, Dunn 
Dr. G. David Moss 
“Last year, said. every report-interim director “RAs and ed instance Gender Relations Council ARs are not ing called into question later. 
“It really muddies the waters,” she said. 
Moss said sexual assault edu­cation empowers students to pre­vent and respond to instances of sexual misconduct. 
“We’re trying to educate stu­dents so that they have as much control and knowledge as possi­ble,” he said. “As a psychologist, one thing I know is that after a sexual assault, it’s important for the victim to get control back.” 
One crucial way for victims to gain back control, according to Moss, is deciding how to respond to the incident with University or police authorities. 
He said students should be aware of whether the person they choose to discuss an assault with is required to either main­tain confidentiality, or inform 
authorities. 
“If you want to 
move at a delib­
erate pace, you 
of sexual assault on campus had alcohol in­volved,” he said. “It is inextrica­bly linked to sexual assault and sexual violence. That’s going to be the tough nut to crack in this environment, with this [drink­ing] culture.” 
This campus drinking culture creates risky situations, Moss said. 
“We have a vibrant and alive alcohol culture,” he said. “Stu­dents do consume alcohol and sometimes abuse it. We need to get our students to understand that [sexual] activity and alcohol consumption do not make good partners.” 
The primary concern with in­toxication is the inability to give consent, Moss said. 
“Consent is — I always say — impossible when alcohol is in­volved,” he said. 
Even if the level of intoxication is not significant enough to af­fect one’s ability to give consent, Dunn said going forward with sexual activity risks consent be-confidential 
sources, faculty 
members as 
well,” she said. “The rectors, campus ministry [are confidential]. On campus, the other [confidential] agency would be the Counseling Center.” 
Dunn said students support­ing victims of assault can be as simple as helping the survivor get the proper assistance. 
“Sometimes the best thing you can do for a friend or someone you’re trying to help is to walk them to the Counseling Center,” she said. 
Moss said the campus needs to confront the issue of sexual as­sault head on. 
“We’re in a fight, folks, and we have to be ready for it,” he said. “It’s not going to change until we begin to confront some of these ill-conceived notions of what it means to socialize on this cam­pus, to have relationships, to have intimacy. We need to have some tough dialogue.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 




Theologian studies evolution 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

Theology professor Celia Deane-Drummond has spent 20 years of her career bridg­ing the gap between science and theology. 
As the leader of a research team spon­sored by Prince­ton Uni­versity, Deane-Drum ­mond will contin­ue that mission this fall, leading a team of scien­tists, theologians, anthropolo­gists, psychologists and oth­ers in a study called, “Inquiry on Evolution and Human Na­ture.” 
The study, which strives to facilitate interdisciplin­ary dialogue, is sponsored by Princeton University’s Center for Theological Inquiry (CTI) and will take place during the 2012-2013 academic year. 
Deane-Drummond said the research team will address large theological questions from multiple angles. 
“We’re going to [be] work­ing out important questions, theological questions, about what it means to be human, but in the light of not just the internal, theological context but in the light of the under­standing of science,” she said. 
Deane-Drummond said the study will facilitate a coop­eration between the two dis­ciplines. 

“The project itself is very exciting because there are questions also that scientists would not think of asking without the dialogue with the humanities,” she said. “I’m not suggesting that theology necessarily informs the mes­sage of science, but theology will certainly push science to ask questions in a different kind of way than they might otherwise have done.” 
Deane-Drummond, along with co-leader Dominic John­son of the University of Edin­burgh, is reviewing research applications for eight re­search fellows and two post­doctoral fellows to participate in the study. 
“The first part of the process is getting the team together for the year,” she said. “There’s an 
application “This particular [study] is looking at process, is looking at human human na­and it is in nature in the light of other ture in the itself highly animals but also our own light of other 
competi -animals but 
evolutionary origins.” 
tive.” also our own Each re-evolutionary 
Celia Deane-Drummond 
searcher origins,” she will pur-professor of theology said. “I’ve 
project. 
“We will probably produce a book on evolution, human nature and religion, or some­thing like that, which will show the fruits of our mutual conversation as well as our individual projects,” she said. 
Deane-Drummond said she herself has a multi-disciplin­ary background, as she holds a doctorate in theology and another in plant physiology. 
“In my previous major monograph on systematic the­ology, I looked at Christology and how we could envisage a Christology that made sense in the light of evolutionary theory,” Deane-Drummond said. 
She said the study will pick up her research right where she left off. “This par­ticular [study] 
sue his or her own individual monograph project, Deane-Drummond said. 
“The point of this is to bring together …  a multidis­ciplinary team to contribute to sharing what they are re­searching in their own areas around this topic so that we feel … we are far better in­formed when we come to con­sider the crucial questions,” she said. 
She said she would also like all the researchers to eventu­ally produce a collaborative moved from 
Christology 
to human na­ture, and the questions I be­gan to ask at the end of my Christology book were about human nature. So this book follows on from that directly.” 
She said that in today’s world, it is important to rec­oncile science and theology. 
“I’m working on forms of theological thinking that make sense in a scientifically engaged culture,” she said. 

Contact tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



Murphy 
continued from page 1 
Murphy was diagnosed with leukemia exactly one month before he died. He developed pneumonia over the weekend. 
Murphy, who is from Ander­son, Ind., graduated with a de­gree in political science with the class of 2011, but was on campus this semester to finish one class and intern with the football team. 
“It is so very hard to imag­ine that energetic person is now passed,” Colonna said. “As a person of such energy, of good faith, and kindness will be how we remember him.” 
Murphy’s mother, Marcia Murphy, said her son was a quiet, private person, but the time since his diagnosis al­lowed her to see a different side of him. 
“He did begin to open up more and share and tell us things like he never would,” she said. “That very first day, I’ll never forget how he said, ‘I’m just so scared.’ That was so un-Xavier to open up that way.” 
But throughout his battle with cancer, his mother said Murphy rarely complained. Instead, during one of his most painful days, Marcia said Murphy comforted her when she cried. 
“It’s really weird because he got this big smile, and he did have a beautiful smile, and said, ‘Why are you cry­ing, mom?’” Marcia said. “And I said, ‘Because it is so hard to watch you suffer.’ He took my head in his hands and said, ‘It’s okay, I’m going to be okay.’ 
“He didn’t fight it. He wasn’t afraid. He comforted me in his suffering.” 
Murphy’s father, David, also remembers Murphy’s ability to comfort those around him. 
“He was a gentleman in the sense that he didn’t want people around him to feel badly about themselves [or] to feel sad,” David said. “He was a lovely guy who is going to leave such a huge impact on all of us.” 
His parents also said Mur­phy embraced God during his last few weeks, and asked for confession before he died. 
David said Murphy loved Notre Dame and his time liv­ing in Zahm. 
“He loved the family he found at Notre Dame,” Da­vid said. “He loved Zahm. He loved that place and those boys were his brothers … They have been so loving and supportive, and it has meant a lot to our family.” 
Murphy’s younger brother, Julian, also attends the Uni­versity. 
Zahm celebrated a Mass in honor of Murphy on Tuesday in the dorm’s chapel, followed by a walk to the Grotto. 
Over 150 students processed into the Grotto with candles, and many members of the crowd raised their arms in an “X” above their heads to hon­or Murphy. 
Murphy served as one of the three senior football manag­ers last year and was intern­ing with the football team this year. 
Head Football Equipment Manager Ryan Grooms called Murphy trustworthy and loy­al. 
“Immediately, he’s one of those kids you kind of fall in love with,” he said. “He had one of those attitudes and personalities that just kind of lights up the rooms and brings happiness to everybody around you.” 
University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a state­ment Murphy will be missed by the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
“Our prayers and condo­lences go out to Xavier’s fam­ily and friends,” Jenkins said. “By all accounts he was an exceptional and greatly loved young man who will be deeply missed.” 
Prior to Murphy’s passing, Zahm had planned events to support Murphy and raise awareness for cancer pa­tients. Colonna said he hopes to continue with the events. 
He said Zahm hopes to hold a “Raise an X for X” campaign during the Notre Dame vs. Navy football game Oct. 29, which would have been Mur­phy’s 23rd birthday. However, Colonna said he wants to get permission from the Murphy family before moving forward with the event. 
The campaign would ask the student body to stand and make an “X” with their arms over their heads, mimicking the symbol residents of Zahm traditionally make during the Celtic chant. 
“X isn’t just for Xavier, it is for us, but it can be a variable for anyone who is fighting cancer,” Colonna said. 
Zahm would also sell red T-shirts and bandanas to raise money and awareness for those battling cancer. 
As part of his leukemia treatment, Murphy needed to receive frequent blood trans­fusions. Colonna said Zahm will hold a blood drive Nov. 7 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
A funeral Mass will be cel­ebrated for Murphy on Satur­day at 11 a.m. The location is not set yet, but will be in one of two churches near Mur­phy’s hometown. 
Douglas Farmer and Megan Doyle contributed to this re­port. 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Hollis said. 
“It’s people who don’t 
“We’re also 
let circumstances tell 
beefing up a 
them no. They aren’t 
lot of in-kind 
bound by the way things 
support priz­
are always done.” 
es which are more helpful Laura Hollis for them than director just hand­ing them a
Gigot Center for 
check.” 
Entrepreneurial Studies 
While only 

innovative solutions to those problems. 
“That’s what it’s really about 
— why people are so riveted by Steve Jobs in his passing,” Hol­lis said. “It’s people who don’t let circumstances tell them no. They aren’t bound by the way things are always done.” 
Registration for the compe­tition is now open, Hollis said, and the cutoff for submissions is November 7. 
The competition involves three stages: an open call for 
submissions, a semifinalist competition and finalist presentations in April. 
“Last year, we had 120 submissions,” Hollis said. “67 moved on from the first stage and were then narrowed to 12 semifinal­


ists. The finalists then gave a presentation before the judges in April.” 
The Ideas Challenge, which focused on entrepreneurship, kicked off the competition in September, she said. 
“They had to stand up for 60 seconds and say, ‘Here’s my idea,’” Hollis said. “That’s hon­estly the hardest part for most people.” 
Hollis said the competition seeks ventures that have the potential to make both social and commercial impacts. 
“Last year we fused together the McCloskey Business Com­petition and the Social Venture Competition,” she said. “This 
Nuclear 
continued from page 1 
the smallest units of construc­tion are. In the same way, we are trying to discover the smallest building blocks of life,” he said. “Everything came from the stars at some point in time, and we want to discover the processes behind the creation of earth, people and the entire universe.” 
Installation of the accelerator began in early June, Collon said, and construction is expected to conclude in late February or early March. 
Dr. Ed Stech, associate profes­sional specialist of nuclear phys­ics, said the construction project has two main components: an outer steel tank infrastructure to house the accelerator, and the accelerator itself. 
“We think of it like a ship in a gets away from the notion that commercial and social ven­tures are completely different. We want commercial ventures to have more social impact and social ones to have a strong sense of fiscal sustainability.” 
In addition to fusing the two competitions, the Gigot Center also streamlined the competi­tion’s process, she said.  They decided to abandon a tradition­al 20-page paper on specula­tive sales, required in previous years, opting instead for a pro­cess that cultivates confidence and experience. 
“Most collegiate ventures are in their early stages so we’ve taken on more of a handhold­ing process at each step,” 
a few are 
designated winners in the McCloskey Com­petition, it can act as a launch pad for other participants, Hol­lis said. 
Hollis said competitors have worked in the past to answer pervasive issues in health and medical, technology, social plans, literacy and several oth­er topics. 
“Can you come up with some­thing that solves a problem or meets a need?” Hollis said. “When push comes to shove, you go about answering it and that’s more important than the prize.” 
Contact Nicole toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
bottle,” he said. “The outer struc­ture protects and supports the nuclear accelerator. The outer structure should be complete in December, and the accelerator will be complete in the spring.” 
The Nuclear Science Labo­ratory already houses three smaller accelerators, Stech said, but each lies horizontally in the basement of Nieuwland. He said the new accelerator will be situ­ated vertically, extending three or four stories above the roof of the building. 
“The construction project it­self is not a particularly compli­cated one, but the location does make it more difficult,” Stech said. “However, Notre Dame is one of the only universities that can boast of having a nuclear re­search center right in the middle of campus.” 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 

Protesters target millionaires 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Now it’s per­sonal: Hundreds of anti-Wall Street protesters held a “Mil­lionaires March” on Tues­day past the homes of some of the wealthiest executives in America, stopping to jeer “Tax the rich!” and “Where’s my bailout?” 
Walking two-by-two on the sidewalk because they had no march permit and didn’t want to be charged with blocking traffic, members of the Occu­py Wall Street movement and other groups made their way up Manhattan’s East Side, along streets like Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue 

“I have nothing against 
where some in (the) mod-
these people personally, I 
of the richest ern day,” the 
1 percent of just think they should pay mayor said. the popula-their fair share of taxes.” “To go and tion live in picket him, townhouses Michael Pollack I don’t know and luxury what that 
Occupy Wall Street protester 
apartments. 
They paused out­side build­ings where media mogul Ru­pert Murdoch, banker Jamie Dimon and oil tycoon David Koch have homes, and decried the impending expiration of New York’s 2 percent “mil­lionaires’ tax” in December. 
“I have nothing against these people personally. I just think they should pay their fair share of taxes,” said Michael Pollack, an of­fice worker in a law firm. He held up a sign with a say­ing attributed to department store founder Edward Filene, “Why shouldn’t the American people take half my money from me? I took all of it from them.” 
Pollack said: “It’s time for a new New Deal.” 
For the past 3½ weeks, pro­testers have besieged a park in lower Manhattan near Wall Street, denouncing corporate greed and the gap between rich and poor. The uptown march marked the first time the Occupy Wall Street move­ment has identified specific people as being part of the 1 percent the demonstrators say are getting rich at the ex­pense of the rest of America. 
When the march reached Park Avenue and East 93rd Street, protesters stopped in front of a building where they said Dimon, JPMorgan Chase’s chairman and CEO, has an apartment. Marchers screamed, “Where’s our bail­out?” and “How do we end this deficit? End the war, tax the rich!” 
JPMorgan was among the banks that received a federal bailout, money it has since re­paid. 
Dimon got supportive words Monday from Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who is himself a billionaire executive but whose East Side townhouse was not on the protesters’ list of targets. 
Dimon has “brought more 
business to 
this city than 
maybe any 
other banker 
achieves. Ja­mie Dimon’s an honor­able person 
working very hard. He pays his taxes.” 
On Wednesday, Dimon was to be the focus of another pro­test, with demonstra­tors gather-reports of any arrests. 
The Occupy Wall Street pro­tests in Manhattan’s Zuccotti Park have spread to other cit­ies, including Atlanta, Chica­go, Philadelphia, Seattle and Los Angeles, and have become a political issue, with Repub­licans accusing the demon­strators of waging “class war” and President Barack Obama saying he understands their frustrations. 
In Washington, six people were arrested Tuesday for demonstrating inside a Sen­ate office building. More than 125 protesters in Boston were arrested overnight af­ter they ignored warnings to move from a downtown green space, police said. A conser­vation group had recently planted $150,000 worth of shrubs, and officials said they were worried about damage. 
The protest in New York City came as the state comp­troller issued a report show­ing that Wall Street is again losing jobs because of global economic woes. The job losses threaten tax revenue for a city and state heavily reliant on the financial industry. 
The industry shed 4,100 jobs in the late spring and summer and could lose nearly 10,000 more by the end of 2012, Comp­
ing at the troller Thom­
“The companies are 
New York as DiNapoli 
destroying this country 
City head-said. That 
by helping themselves, not 
quarters of would bring 
the people, and pushing 
JP Morgan the total in-Chase to jobs out of America. If dustry loss to again focus they get shafted, they 32,000 posi­on the ex-will realize that what tions since piring tax. we are saying is true.” the financial 
Marcher meltdown of Bahran 2008. 
Christopher Guerra 
Admadi, a The sec-
Occupy Wall Street protester 
former taxi tor employed 
driver  and  
art  dealer  
who is  now  
unemployed,  said  he  has  
“nothing  personal”  against  

the rich. “But some of them take people’s blood,” he said. “Everything goes up the lad­der while we work harder and harder.” 
Outside one building, pro­testers placed a giant replica of a check against the door. It was made out to “The top one percent” for $5 billion — the size of the impending state tax cut for New Yorkers mak­ing $250,000 and more. 
There were no immediate 166,600 peo­
ple in invest­
ment banks, securities trading firms and hedge funds as of August. 
Christopher Guerra, an art­ist and Occupy Wall Street protester from Newark, N.J., said the job losses aren’t nec­essarily bad. 
“That means more people on our side,” Guerra said. “The companies are destroy­ing this country by helping themselves, not the people, and pushing jobs out of Amer­ica. If they get shafted, they will realize that what we are saying is true.” 
College 
continued from page 1 
The second and final install­ment of Common Experience Tuesday focused on diversity, and how recognizing our dif­ferences can help answer the ‘Why am I here?’ question for first year students, Karen John­son, vice president for student affairs, said. 
“The ‘Why am I here?’ ques­tion … is answered for first years through peer mentoring, faculty advising and various ac­tivities in the residence halls,” she said. 
Johnson said after Tuesday’s film and panel, students met with their advisors, discussed the night’s activities and then will prepare a reflection on the film. 
The film, titled “The Danger of a Single Story,” features Ni­gerian author Chimamanda Adichie and struggles with overcoming the “single stories” people tell of African and Nige­rian cultures. 
Adichie, who was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship and earned Master’s degrees from Johns Hopkins University and Yale University, speaks in the film about the dangers of par­taking in single story telling. 
Adichie said a single story is when we hear only one story about a person and use that in­formation to shape our views of other peoples and cultures. 
“Single stories rob people of their dignity,” she said in the film. “We are taught to empha­size how people are different, rather than how people are similar.” 
Adichie said people should recognize the positive effects of exploring other cultures and expanding their personal views. 
The film was followed by a panel discussion, led by junior Maeva Alexander and senior Al­exandra Zellner. The discussion was a way for first year students to see how diversity can be lived out in everyday life, particularly at Saint Mary’s College. 
Alexander reflected on her time abroad in South Africa and how her single stories were drastically altered as a result of her experience. Zellner dis­cussed the impact on stereo­types, focusing especially on labels Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students can sometimes impose upon one another. 
Both Zellner and Alexander ended their discussions stress­ing the importance of working to push past single stories and celebrate similarities between peoples of different cultures, echoing the themes of Adichie’s talk in the film. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
Eight people thrown overboard as boat sinks 

Associated Press 
MARATHON, Fla. — Four hours into a family fishing trip, rough waves flipped a 22-foot boat off the Florida Keys, toss­ing eight people overboard. Sev­en of them, including a 4-year­old girl, survived by clinging to their capsized vessel and a small blue cooler for almost 20 hours, suffering exhaustion, jel­lyfish stings and hypothermia. 
A 79-year-old woman, the ma­triarch of the group, was miss­ing and presumed drowned. 
“When the will to live kicks in, human beings can do amaz­ing things,” Coast Guard Petty Officer Nick Ameen said. 
Those rescued were taken to a hospital with non-life-threat­ening injuries. 
The family left Layton in the Middle Keys around 8 a.m. Sat­urday to fish in less-than-ideal conditions. It was raining, seas topped 7 feet and winds were whipping up to 38 mph. After they anchored 3½ miles off the island chain, two waves hit sud­denly, capsizing the vessel. 
The women grabbed the girl and the 2½-foot cooler. One of the men tried to rescue his mother, but she slipped through his grasp and disappeared into the water. 
Almost immediately, the two groups — the three women and girl and three men — drifted apart. 
Nearly a day later, they were rescued when a commercial fisherman spotted the men Sunday morning and alerted the Coast Guard, which found the women and the blue cooler several miles away in the warm waters. 
The women said the boat turned over so quickly that there wasn’t time to grab life jackets for anyone except the child, said Kendra Graves, a seaman with the Coast Guard. 
Florida law requires children 6 or under on a boat 26 feet or less to wear a life jacket if the boat is moving. If the craft is anchored or docked, they don’t have to wear a life vest. 
As the weather improved Sun­day, fishing boat captain David Jensen headed out with custom­ers to catch live bait. Off in the distance, he saw a large object floating in the water. 




page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, October 12, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Thank you, SDH 
A couple weeks ago, I was having one of those days. The first test cycle of the year was in the process of scissor-kick­ing me into submission, and I had the same hacking cough that was plaguing 80 percent of cam­pus. Simply put, I had a terminal case of the Mondays. 
This continued all morning and straight through lunch, and I headed out of South Din­ing Hall to a slate of afternoon classes. Before I went out to brave the day though, I reached into the mints box as usual. But mints I did not find. 
Lo and behold, Dum-Dum Lollipops! You know, the kind you got at the doc­tor’s office after a shot when you were six. The kind that you get at a small-town barber shop. The kind I hadn’t seen or thought about in probably five years. 
It probably wasn’t a big deal for who­ever along the way made this decision, but that lollipop actually made my day. With a smile on my face and the sun seeming to shine brighter, I took on my afternoon classes fueled entirely by a Strawberry Dum-Dum. 
And while this may be the only time I’ve ever seen lollipops at South, it was just one of many little details that can single-handedly turn a day around. 
To the guy who responds to the comment cards and puts them on the bulletin board: You sir, are the man. They’re just the right combination of informational, sarcastic and joking to make them downright hilarious. (If you don’t know what I’m talking about, check them out in right-right, under The Last Supper. They’re worth a read, even if you have to stare creepily over people sitting there.) 
In that vein, it’s really the people that make South Dining Hall what it is. It’s Otis pretending to shut down the omelet station with people still on line, and Timmy offering a pound to every man, woman and child before they get their food. 
It’s the mysterious Betsy Flanagan and the even more legendary Carl, both of whom have one mean chicken recipe. 
It’s the lovely ladies who man the ex­its. They’re quick with a smile, a mint and a “Have a great day!” but maintain constant vigilance to keep us safe from would-be celery thieves. 
It’s Mike and John swiping cards, and dancing chicken dolls for wing night, and “Amish Country Fried Chicken,” and, oh yeah, “Apple Crisp.” 
And we don’t know their names or see their faces but I’m sure it’s those people on the other side of the dishline and those double doors, as well. 
This seems kind of over-the-top and idealistic so far, but we do have the greatest of all university dining halls. So to those of you who work in our din­ing halls — stir-fry or sweep, desserts or grill, food prep or silverware — I’m sure the job can be tiring, tedious and thankless at times. Just know that your attitude and ability to do the extra, little things single-handedly makes our days. So on behalf of the always hungry student body, thank you. 
Lollipops all around. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at      wheffero@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Notre Dame’s ally movement 
On Thursday, Oct. 6, Progressive Student Alliance kicked off its “4 to 5 Movement” with the hope of getting those who support the rights of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and question­ing) people more involved and vocal on campus. “Four out of five college … educated people between the ages of 18 and 30 in the United States right now support the general package of gay rights. ... 80 percent of you support my rights, you only think that it’s about a third of you,” said Brian Sims, the first openly gay college football captain, at the 2011 Rally for Diversity. The statistic is a double-edged sword, but provides an opportunity for everyone who identifies as an ally. 
The positive side of the statistic is of course that 80 percent of college educated youth support gay rights. They recognize that LGBTQ members of the community should be free from discrimination in housing, in employ­ment, in public accommodations and from hate crimes. According to a 2004 National Youth Survey, these numbers of support are well over 80 percent. Moreover, the study found that “youth support for equal protections for gays seems to cross partisan, ideologi­cal and religious lines. For example, majorities of Republican, conservative and Born-Again Christian youth also support protections on housing, em­ployment and hate crimes.” The move­ment from 4 to 5 signifies the positive trend of support among the youth in this country. There exists not only the 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

goal to get allies to raise their voices, but to also try to convince those who currently oppose gay rights to recog­nize the dignity of each human person, gay or straight. Unfortunately, because the one-fifth who do not support gay rights are very loud, the allies who are a part of the majority are drowned out. Those speaking rightly on behalf of the gay community are either unheard or silenced completely. 
So why is there a need at Notre Dame for a movement to raise the voices of the allies? 
According to Progressive Student Alliance co-president Jackie Em­manuel, “the same dynamic exists on Notre Dame’s campus: The support is there, but it is overwhelmed by the loud one-fifth.” Professor Sarah McKibben stresses the importance of allies on campus: “They can show the breadth of support for GLBTQ rights and can demonstrate that it’s not ‘just a gay thing.’ To allies, I would say ‘your voice is incredibly powerful, so use it!’” Of course it is not just students who can act as allies, but faculty, like Professor McKibben as well. “To faculty, I would say that it’s important to be explicit in class about standing up for a welcom­ing, supportive campus where bullying is not tolerated and diversity is cel­ebrated. I am proud to support GLBTQ inclusion, rights and visibility in and out of the classroom,” says McKibben. 
Mary Dewey, a member of the class of 2011, writes, “Every movement for minority rights needs allies. A relatively small percentage of the population identifies as LGBT, but the vast majority of the population supports our rights.” According to junior and CORE Council member, Karl Abad, “When you’re in the closet, it’s difficult to hear anything but the loudest noises from outside that door. ... Allies mean the world to not only us, but also to the entire move­ment. Allies are probably the most cru­cial asset in our mission towards equal rights.” Allies help to open the closet door and allow members of the com­munity who identify as LGBTQ to live without fear of rejection in this Notre Dame community whose foundation is based upon Christ’s love for others. 
A coalition of students, faculty, staff, and alumni/ae who represent the ma­jority is a key component to this year’s 4 to 5 Movement, stresses Emmanuel. Being an active and vocal ally can have important and often unrecognized posi­tive effects. Simple things can be done to change the campus environment, like calling someone out when he or she says, “that’s so gay” or “fag.” When such a chant, like “Zahm’s gay,” is bel­lowed at a football game, it contributes to an environment that alienates its members who identify as LGBTQ, and it is certainly not an action that lives up to the “Spirit of Inclusion.” Being an ally addresses the heterosexual privilege that exists on campus that represses an inclusionary environment. Being an ally sends a message that such exclusionary and derisive language will not be tolerated. 
So the opportunity presented is great. Anyone can be an ally — students, faculty, staff, administrators and the Board of Trustees. An Ally Movement for Notre Dame, if the community wish­es to accept it, can help Notre Dame become a model for religious institu­tions across the country when it comes to acceptance of, and protection for, its members who identify as LGBTQ. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The secret of being boring is to say everything.” 
Voltaire French author and satirist 


WEEKLY POLL 
Over Fall Break I plan on ... 
Going to Appalachia Going home Partying with state school friends Going to Vegas, baby! 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, October 12, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Steve Jobs: The story we’re afraid to write 
Each and every one of us is given a pen, a very long notebook and one enduring mission: to write the story of our lives. Each of us is given a genu­inely unbiased opportunity to ink the direction of the main character. We Marc Anthony take this process for Rosa granted, that we can wait a few chapters Bro Meets before beginning World to write the story that we wanted for ourselves since the beginning — a story about power­ful journeys, bold choices or a path all alone save for you. We’ll look at today, but settle for tomorrow, sched­uling a future full of experiencing real moments that our gut has quietly demanded for a very long time. Just carry around a pen, and it’ll be fine. Tomorrow will be perfect. 
Last Wednesday, the story of Steve Jobs became complete with its own ending. The conclusion is a cliffhanger in its own right, abruptly bookmarking the space between the nonstop stream of words of the first half of the book and the hundreds of empty pages of the second half. 
Of all of the stories and textbooks that I have read or studied, the novella of Steve Jobs is the most highlighted, tabbed, scribbled-upon and reread work that I own in my collection. I have posters in my room and diagrams on my computer about Apple or about Steve Jobs, illustrations that talk to the techniques that he employed throughout his life. I have studied the ways that he gained the grip of the world, held it so precociously and molded it into a beautiful milieu that is marked by technologies and ergonom­ics well-blended. 
Out of it all, if there was something that I’ve captured from this mate­rial, the story of Steve Jobs’ life can be summarized, surprisingly, by one simple theme: a man’s unique un­derstanding of his story’s definitive ending. What I captured from it all is that Steve Jobs fully understood that life was but two guaranteed moments 
— life and death — and that those mo­ments were separated from each other by the chapters that he chose to write. He understood that his pages were capable of indefinite possibilities, but that the pages must always be bound between the main character’s first breath and last exhale. 
There’s a very famous YouTube video of Steve Jobs’ 2005 Stanford com­mencement address (one that received a record 8 million views in one day last week) that captures the beauty behind a potentially-melancholic outlook on life: 
“Remembering that I’ll be dead soon is the most important tool I’ve ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost every­thing — all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure — these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.” 

Because of his early stroke with cancer — a moment that would ulti­mately come full-circle and take his life — Steve Jobs quickly understood how valuable a life is. Perhaps it was to create a legacy; perhaps it’s to prove something to his biological parents (Steve Jobs was adopted); but most likely, perhaps Steve Jobs understood how important it was to own himself and maximize his creative attributes as best as possible. He propelled himself completely and wholly for­ward into everything he worked with, and because of this, our world has changed, and people like me write things like this because we realize just how big of a loss this is. 
What have I learned from all of this? Our time is limited. Each day must be penned as a story of living a life that I own, instead of a life wasted away in the form of someone else’s moments, while I wait for the perfect day to start writing. We each have an extremely strong inner voice that’s louder and more passionate than we’ve ever real­ized, shouting about what’s right or wrong with political dogma, theologi­cal creeds, sociological norms or even technological inefficiencies. Perhaps the most important lesson for me is not about just listening to your inter­nal voice. Instead, the most important lesson that I’ve learned is that I must have the courage to follow my internal voice every single day. It’s an unbeliev­ably difficult thing to do day in and day out. But by understanding that you truly have nothing to lose, I under­stand that doing nothing simply trans­lates as a wasted page in what could be a tremendous story of my life. 
Steve Jobs wrote his life story as if the next page was the conclusion. Steve Jobs followed his heart, and because of it, a generation of people eagerly listened and followed along. To Steve, tomorrow could have been the last day that he had on Earth to create something exceptional. And so, every day, he destroyed the boundaries of creativity and innovation, in an effort to maximize what could potentially be his last day on Earth. 
Unfortunately, last week, he was right. 
Each and every one of us is given one pen, one very long notebook and one perpetuating mission: to write the story of our lives. 
What will you write about today? 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior management entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

DMX offers less-than-ideal anthems 
Dear Mr. Davis, 

Thank you for your response to my letter (“Game week­end anthems,” Oct. 11), and I hope my follow-up will allow a final opportunity for you to consider my perspective on the issue of your dorm’s music selection. 
First of all, I hope you realize that I am not trying to prevent you or your fellow Otters from playing music loudly on game weekends. You should not be deprived of this right just because of your nearness to the Basilica. Also, since I am no expert on the First Amendment, I will assume your interpretation is correct and you are not breaking any rules by playing your music. However, I hope you recognize that just because you are presum­ably allowed to play songs like the DMX one in question, you can still hold yourself to higher standards of class for the benefit of those around you. As the sweatervest-clad gentlemen you Otters are, I’m sure you know full well what I mean.
 Conceding that you are fully allowed your choice of mu­sic, I still have a difficult time agreeing with your second argument that DMX’s “Party Up (Up in Here)” is ‘an ideal anthem for game weekend Fridays.’ Have you ever looked at the crowd that passes by Sorin in this time? Does it look like a crowd that has ever been galvanized by any­thing from a DMX song?  Jail, strip clubs, murder — now I’m ready to go cheer for my Irish! I am a self-proclaimed rap fanatic and truly believe there is a good rap song for nearly any occasion. I still, however, have a hard time be­lieving that this song was the best way to rally fans to any cause other than asking you to turn down your music. 
To conclude, I hope that a week-and-a-half from now, Sorin, and many other dorms, will be welcoming the masses to campus with thunderous music from their windows. Our fans are too quiet and good music can help anyone get excited for a game. Hopefully when that time comes though, DMX is not the one delivering this mes­sage. 
Gavin Labate 
alumnus Class of 2011 Oct. 11 

Changes for the band 
As a former band member, I certainly have seen the growth of the band over the years. They do a great job and winning the Sudler Trophy is an impressive accomplishment. Though I was disap­pointed over one change — the Band no longer plays the fight song of the opposing team. At the Air Force game, there was something wrong to not hear it or have the AFA Band perform first at half­time. Many things change over time, but for this old tuba player I do not understand the rationale for these changes. “Old Notre Dame will win over all” rings a bit hollow to me as I always thought the Notre Dame way was to demonstrate through actions the University’s character. Yes, it may have been hard for me to play an opposing team’s fight song after we lost, but I certainly recognized why it was the right thing to do. 
Love thee Notre Dame! 
Bill Wyman 
alumnus Class of 1981 Oct. 11 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




By SHANE O’CONNOR heavy doses of improvisation, selves, find a bar that would Scene Writer and they have built a fanati-book us, buy a PA ... Go make 
cal following. When listen-flyers and hang them.” Once 
“We never thought that ing to the music, however, the members graduated and this was going to work out, one gets the sense that band moved to Chicago word of that we’d be playing all over has varied influences ranging the band spread rapidly, both the world for 13 years,” said from jazz to metal. This wide through alumni and constant Brendan Bayliss, singer and taste in music can be seen in touring. guitarist for the band Um-its choice of covers, which in-In addition to their ever­phrey’s McGee. clude everything from Lonely growing fan base and musi-
Bayliss, along with current Island to TLC to Pink Floyd. cal repertoire, Umphrey’s members Ryan Stasik and The band continues to grow has kept with the Notre Dame Joel Cummins, formed Um-in popularity and notoriety, tradition of giving back. Bayl­phrey’s McGee at Notre Dame performing main-stage night iss co-founded a group called in 1998. As a student, Bayliss sets at festivals like Bonar-USTORM (United So Together started playing publicly in a roo, one of the biggest annual Our Reach Multiplies) that way familiar to many Notre festivals in America. Bayliss supports music and arts pro-Dame musicians. reflected fondly on the band’s grams for disadvantaged 
“When I was a freshman I’d humble Domer origins. youth. be playing Acousticafe by my-“I lived in Keenan, and in self,” he said. “It’d be terrify-the basement they had a mu-“Once I was established ing because you couldn’t hide sic room ... I remember being and had a career I felt really behind anything.” down there one day playing lucky and really blessed ... It 
Bayliss has certainly come with [bassist] Ryan [Stasik]. was kind of a no-brainer that a long way from solo perfor-The music scene was really I needed to give back. Music mances at LaFortune, as over small so you were bound to and art education is not a pri­10 years later he and his band bump into each other just ority for a lot of people.” play to thousands of fans at through interest of music. We Bayliss also had some more than 100 shows a year. just put it together because thoughts for Notre Dame stu-They recently released their there wasn’t a whole lot going dents similarly interested in sixth studio album, “Death by on.” music. Stereo.” The original band con-“My advice for anyone on 
“Everything we’ve done be-sisted of Bayliss, Stasik, key-campus is to keep your eyes fore, we’ve tried to do some-boardist Joel Cummins and open, keep your ears open, thing different,” Bayliss said. drummer Mike Mirro. Bayl-because there are tons of tal­“This one comes after ‘Man-iss, Stasik and Cummins are ented people at Notre Dame.” tis,’ which was pretty self-still in the band, along with Umphrey’s McGee will per-indulgent, orchestral rock. guitarist Jake Cinniger, per-form at Club Fever on Sun-The title track was 12 min-cussionist Andy Farag and day, Oct. 23rd. The show is utes long ... With this one we drummer Kris Myers. As 21-and-up, and tickets are wanted to make something a Bayliss describee, the story of $25 presale or $27 the day of little more tight and dance-Umphrey’s rise is one of per-the show. Their new album able.” severance. “Death by Stereo” is available 
Their live style involves “We lost every battle of the in stores now. many characteristics of a jam bands we ever entered,” Bayl­band. Umphrey’s plays two-iss said with a laugh. “We Contact Shane o’Connor at set, three-hour shows with kind of had to create our-soconno7@nd.edu 

By ROSS FINNEY 
Scene Writer 

It is too much to ask of Blink-182 that they remain perpetual teenagers — but that’s really what we want. 
For most listeners, Blink is synony­mous with juvenile humor, high school relationships and the ability to make light of teen angst set to anthems like So-Cal pop-punk. Blink-182 took a for­mula inspired by the Ramones and ear­ly Green Day, and perfected it. They got it on the radio. 
They were so good at what they did, and their tunes are so tied to a time, place, age and attitude in most of our memories that it is impossible to go into their new record “Neighborhoods” without a sense of expectation. And they fail to meet those expectations. 
That’s not to say it’s a bad record; it’s just different. 
Before the band broke up in 2005, their eponymous album hinted at which direction they would go. The jokes and light-heartedness that had defined their classic albums “Enema of the State” and “Take Off Your Pants and Jacket” were discarded in favor of mellower sounds and imagery, like on the single “I Miss You.” To put it simply, they have gone emo. 
“Neighborhoods” is not an emo al­bum, but it is marked by a somber tone and dark lyrics that deal with death, isolation and depression in a way the band has largely avoided throughout most of their career. 
The circumstances of the band’s re­union certainly played a part in the dark overtones. The group reunited in the wake of drummer Travis Barker’s near-fatal plane crash, the overdose of a close friend of the band and singer Tom DeLonge’s unexpected bout with skin cancer. For a band getting used to working as a group again, there are bound to be obstacles to their creative output. 
The lead singles from the album, “Up All Night” and “After Midnight,” are each surprising choices. “Up All Night,” a group composition, exposes the dif­ferent directions the members went in the wake of Blink-182’s initial break­up. It is divided in a polar way between bassist Mark Hoppus’ low-fi indie and DeLonge’s penchant for arena rock. 
“After Midnight,” has a sad ambience to it and is a ultimately a love song, but despite an attempted leap toward maturity, the lyrics, or more probably the singing, come off as juvenile; “After Midnight” hints at old tunes like “On­line Songs,” but in the context of the album lacks the nuance that made that song an exception. 

The strongest cuts on the album are actually the ones that haven’t been re­leased as singles. The opening track, “Ghost on the Dance Floor,” is a par­ticularly striking song about hearing music that reminds one of a deceased friend. It is heavy but not heavy hand­ed, and DeLonge is able to make his perpetually teenaged voice work mag­nificently. 
The second track, “Natives,” finds the band pushing up the tempos to past punk levels, and lyrically reminds us just how much this band has grown since those first albums. “Heart’s All Gone,” works in much the same way, perhaps to even greater effect, with a really rocking breakdown and a sing­along chorus that begs the question, why this wasn’t the single? 
The album’s second half is filled with strong tracks, such as “Kaleidoscope.” 
The album closer “Even If She Falls” keeps listeners engaged and, while somber, keeps the album cohesive. 
Blink-182 has grown up, and so have we. This album is the evidence.  It is not the nostalgia romp that we want, but it’s a solid album that should be ac­cepted on its own terms. 

“Neighborhoods” Blink 182 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, October 12, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 

“I’m peeing with @batemanjason at the moment … and we can confirm that we are going to make new AD eps and a movie,” Will Arnett announced via Twitter on Oct. 2. 
Any true fan would know immedi­ately that Arnett was talking about the fabled “Arrested Development” mov­ie. There have been rumors swirling about a possible film version of the cult television show for years, but it looks like this time the rumors are true. 
That same day Jason Bateman tweet­ed, “It’s true. We will do 10 episodes and the movie. Probably shoot them all together next summer for a release in early ’13. VERY excited!” 
Mitch Hurwitz, the creator and ex­ecutive producer of “Arrested Devel­opment,” responded to all of the buzz with a simple, “Yup.” 
For those not in the know, “Arrested Development” was a television series that followed the dysfunctional Bluth family after the patriarch, George Blu­th, was arrested for fraud.  His son, Mi­chael Bluth, took over the Bluth Com­pany and kept the rest of the family from falling apart. 
It has been nearly six years since the show was cancelled in the middle of its third season because of low ratings, but the show grew in popularity after its cancellation and became the go-to model for smart, quick-witted comedy. 
“I have been working on the screen­play for a long time and found that as time went by there was so much more to the story. In fact, where everyone’s been for five years became a big part of the story,” Hurwitz told The New York Times. “So in working on the screen­play, I found even if I just gave five min­utes per character to that back story, we were halfway through the movie be­fore the characters got together.” 
So the plan, according to Hurwitz, is to focus each of the 10 episodes on a different character. The series is meant to be a prelude to the film itself. 
George, Lucille, Michael, Lindsey, Gob, Buster, Tobias, Maeby and George Michael would undoubtedly be the nine immediate family members featured in the episodes, but that leaves room for one more character to play a promi­nent role in the film. 
Would producers choose to feature Annyong, the adopted Korean son of George and Lucille Bluth who joined their family to avenge his grandfa­ther, the creator of the original banana stand? 
Or would they feature Steve Holt, the illegitimate son of Gob and Eve Holt (who is never seen in the series apart from a yearbook photo)? Steve is known for defeating George Michael in student council elections and having a relationship with Maeby (who, ironi­cally, turned out to be his cousin). 
The best part of the series was its ability to develop the most miniscule characters in a way that made fans recognize them instantly and use them to weed out the fanatics from the peo­ple who had merely heard of the series. 
Who among these small parts will appear in the film or series is unknown, but one can only hope that characters like Carl Weathers, Gene Parmesan, J. Walter Weatherman and Larry Middle­man will be dutifully incorporated into the script. And, if Franklin Delano Bluth doesn’t make an appearance, it might not even be worth watching. 
So much remains unanswered about the 10-episode series and subsequent movie, which is a bit concerning. No network deal has been reached for air­ing the series and no studios have been confirmed for the film, but if the over­whelming enthusiasm of supporters is any indication, whoever does get these deals stands to make a killing. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Recognize Rodgers 
It was not long ago that Aaron Rodgers was an un­known commodity trapped on the sideline under the ty­rannical rule of Brett Favre. 
While the ironman Fa­vre trotted back out under center for the Packers game after game, Rodgers Joseph played the Monardo understudy for three Sports Writer seasons. And then, in the offseason before the 2008 season, Rodgers be­came a central figure after Favre’s dramatic departure from the dairy land. 
There has, perhaps, been no task more difficult re­cently in the sporting world than the one presented to Rodgers in 2008. To suc­cessfully replace a starting quarterback in the National Football League is a daunt­ing prospect in itself. To do so when that quarterback was one of the greatest of all time and the city’s hero for the last 16 seasons is near impossible. 
But now only in his fourth season as the starter for the Pack, Rodgers has not only handled the transition, but has also become the best quarterback in the league. 
In his young career, Rodg­ers has already amassed 14,444 yards and 101 touch­downs. His career passer rating sits at 100.9, the high­est rating ever for a quar­terback with a minimum of 1,500 attempts. 
In the postseason, Rodgers has been even more impres­sive. His postseason passer rating of 112.6 is first among quarterbacks with at least 150 attempts and is substan­tially higher than second place Bart Starr’s rating of 104.8. He averages 8.72 yards per completion and has tossed 13 touchdowns while throwing only three interceptions. 
Last year, Rodgers put the team on his back and led the Packers to their first Super Bowl victory since Favre helped the team win one in 1997. In the second round of last year’s playoffs, the sixth seeded Packers dismantled the top-seeded Atlanta Falcons in their own back­yard by the score of 48-21. Rodgers went 31 of 36 in the game while throwing for 366 yards and three touchdowns. 
Rodgers had a fantastic year in 2010, and an even more fantastic postsea­son. He has the hardware to prove it — the ring, of course — but also the rec­ognition of Super Bowl XLV MVP. 
This year, he looks even better. 
Rodgers has positioned the 5-0 Packers as the team to beat in the NFL thus far. In their most recent win — a come-from-behind 25-14 victory over the Falcons on Sunday night — the Packers gained only 57 yards on the ground. But their stellar quarterback threw for 396 yards and two touchdowns, both in the second half. On the season, Rodgers has thrown for 1,721 yards, 14 touchdowns and only two interceptions, bringing his passer rating to an as­tounding 122.9. 
Of course, plenty of foot­ball remains to be played, but it is undeniable that Rodgers is the elite quar­terback in the league today. Even with such prolific sig­nal callers as Drew Brees, Tom Brady, Philip Rivers or even a healthy Peyton Manning, Rodgers occupies the top spot in the NFL’s most coveted position, and figures to do so for years to come. 
Of course, he didn’t do it all by himself. The three years Rodgers spent under Brett Favre’s tutelage, or at least under his name on the depth chart, couldn’t have been bad for the quarter­back’s development. Rodg­ers is also on one of the most talented teams in all of football. With offensive weapons like wide receivers Greg Jennings and Donald Driver and tight end Jermi­chael Finley, Rodgers has plenty of options when look­ing downfield. The Packers’ defense is also stocked with Pro-Bowl players and even future Hall of Famers, most notably cornerback Charles Woodson and outside line­backer Clay Matthews. 
But still, Rodgers’ impact on his team is impossible to overestimate. He is a team leader, statistically the best quarterback in the NFL and a clutch performer. He is the reason why cheeseh­eads everywhere are smil­ing, and the reason why everyone else in the league should be nervous. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
NFL 

Arizona awarded 2015 Super Bowl 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON — Ah, Arizona. Just the place for the Super Bowl to thaw out after a frosty foray into the New York/New Jersey area. 
The Super Bowl is heading back to the desert in 2015, one year after it will be at the mercy of winter weather in the Mead­owlands. The Phoenix area was awarded the 49th Super Bowl by NFL owners Tuesday, beat­ing the only other candidate — Tampa, Fla. 
It will be the third time the Phoenix area has hosted the game, which will be played in Glendale. 
“We are thrilled to be back in Arizona,” Commissioner Roger Goodell said. “I will say it was a difficult choice.” 
Phoenix won on the second ballot, prompting screams of joy from the Arizona commit­tee. 
“Everyone pulled together throughout the Phoenix area to put together a terrific pack­age we were able to present to the owners,” Arizona Cardinals President Michael Bidwill said. “We are delighted.” 
It’s difficult to be critical of the choice weather-wise: aver­age temperature in early Feb­ruary in Glendale is about 60 degrees. In East Rutherford, N.J., where the first outdoor Su­per Bowl in a cold-weather cli­mate will be played in 2014, the average is a slightly chillier 31 degrees. 
The NFL also set Feb. 2, 2014, as the date of the Super Bowl in New Jersey; that date will not conflict with the Winter Olym­pics in Sochi, Russia. 
“It’s historically warmer on Feb. 2,” Giants owner John Mara said with a smile. He didn’t mention the possibility of snow, freezing rain, blustery winds and all the accompany­ing elements. 
That will not be a factor in Arizona. The NFL has seemed eager to return to the Valley of the Sun since the Giants’ upset of the then-unbeaten Patriots on Feb. 3, 2008 at University of Phoenix Stadium. 
Tempe, Ariz., was the 1996 host, with Dallas defeating Pittsburgh 27-17. 
“This is huge for Arizona,” bid leader Mike Kennedy said. “It feels really satisfying.” 
Tampa hosted the game in 1984, 1991, 2001 and 2009. 
“Both cities are great sites for the Super Bowl and both had impressive bids,” added Mara, whose team has won championships in both places. “They’ve each been to the altar a few times recently and were denied. They both deserve to host a game again.” 


Next year’s game is indoors in Indianapolis, followed by New Orleans in 2013 and then the Big (possibly frozen) Apple. There is speculation that the 50th championship game in 2016 will wind up in Los Ange­les, where the first Super Bowl was played in 1967, if a suitable stadium is available. 
“That is a significant event for us,” Goodell said, “and we want to make sure we do it right. I don’t think there is anything off the table on who would host it.” 
The league is keeping close tabs on two potential stadium projects in Los Angeles. 
“We think there are two op­portunities in Los Angeles and we are going to pursue both of them aggressively,” Goodell said. 
Neither Arizona nor Tampa received the required 24 of 32 votes on the first ballot Tuesday, meaning a simple majority was needed on the next vote. 
Goodell spoke with the Tam­pa Bay group immediately after it lost the bidding. 
“Anytime we are invited to participate, we will do so,” said Paul Catoe, outgoing CEO of Tampa Bay & Co. 
Bidwill said the estimated economic impact in Arizona in 2008 was more than $500 million, and he expects it to be higher in 2015. While that num­ber seems high because subse­quent Super Bowls didn’t reach that level, it’s still a major boon to local business. 
“The impact is in the mul­tihundred millions of dollars, and that is significant value for any community,” said Marc Ga­nis, president of Chicago-based sports business consulting firm Sportscorp Ltd., and an observ­er of the league’s business side. “The Super Bowl also provides a positive target for a communi­ty to rally around. There are all sorts of activities — business, volunteer, political — that can be pointed to when they host the Super Bowl.” 
Ganis also points out that the Phoenix area has enough first-class hotels for the Super Bowl. That has been a challenge for Tampa, which has involved Or­lando and Sarasota and other areas in its bids. 
Later Tuesday, owners ap­proved a resolution to play reg­ular-season games in Britain through 2016. Teams can vol­unteer to play at least one regu­lar-season home game per year in Britain for up to five years. Goodell said several teams have expressed interest and there are financial incentives for hosting games overseas. Visit­ing teams can play abroad only once in five years. 
Tampa Bay will host Chicago on Oct. 23 in London, the fifth straight year the NFL has held an October game there. The Buccaneers will be making their second London appear­ance in three years; they lost to New England 35-7 in 2009. 
Several teams that struggle to sell out home games, such as the Jaguars, Raiders, Bengals and Chargers, could be in line for more frequent trips over­seas. 
No specifics on venues, dates or teams for future games have been set, but Goodell made it clear more games in London are coming, perhaps two next season. 
“We are very pleased with the reception to the game and the way our business has grown over there,” he said. “Can it be sustained for multiple games?” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
USC GAs desperately needed. Top $$ 574-277-1659 

PERSONAL  NOTICES  FOR RENT  Modern Family quotes  Phil: Guess it’s just one of those  
things that we’ll never know,  
like what really happened to the  
Phil: I’ve always said that if my son  Titanic.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  Cheap 2 room studio $440  thinks of me as one of his idiot  Claire: It hit an iceberg.  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many  friends, I’ve succeeded as a dad.  
resources in place to assist you.  Transportation to airport $7 per  Phil: Maybe.  
If you or someone you love needs  person in groups.  
confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Email DaveMichiganTEKK@gmail. com incl util  Phil: Ordinarily I’m a rule follower, but when someone tells me I can’t  
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at:  Mark 574-360-6480  Large 4BR $840.  Phil: Claire’s a perfectionist,  bring my own snacks into their stadium? That’s when I get a little... nuts. It’s a free country right? Let’s  
10 mo lease, 3 mi S of SMC.  which sometimes is a good thing,  just say it Ruffles me when some  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  call Dave 574-286-1384  like when it comes to picking a husband.  Goobers tell me I have to spend my half my PayDay on their hot dogs.  

NBA 

Stern announces 100 NBA games will be cancelled 
Associated Press ping the first two weeks of the tempt by toughening their fu­season — 100 games — because ture proposals for a new collec-
NEW YORK — NBA owners owners and players couldn’t tive bargaining agreement. will lose $1 million on average agree on a new contract. “Well, what we have to do is for every game canceled be-She said, “I thought it would we have to account for the loss-cause of the lockout, and play-be like football,” where the NFL es that we’re suffering, so those ers will lose an estimated $350 lost preseason games but no losses will be factored in as we million a month. The pain, regular-season games while move forward,” he said Monday though, may be more acute for it hammered out a deal with night. thousands of people with no players. “They were locked out. Players and owners have each seat at the bargaining table. They got it situated. I thought made some concessions but re-
Bars, restaurants and hotels the NBA would get it situated.” main far apart on several is-will go quiet. Parking spots will There’s no telling when that sues. Each side has sought a 53 go unfilled. And the workers will happen. Commissioner Da-percent cut of revenue for itself, who help make basketball a big vid Stern indicated that the en-though a 50-50 split has been event in 30 cities will wonder tire November calendar could floated informally. Owners also how long they can get by with-be wiped away without a deal want a higher luxury tax, mak­out it. by the end of this month, but ing it more expensive for teams 
“I’m worried that my money players and owners had no im-to spend over the salary cap, situation is going to change — mediate plans to sit down with but players say that would do a lot,” said waitress Zuly Mo-each other again. too much to discourage teams lina, who works at a Hooters The cancellations mean that from offering big contracts. at the Bayside complex next to Mark Cuban and his Dallas Players and fans quickly took the Miami Heat’s home arena. Mavericks won’t be able to col-to Twitter and talk shows, dis­“It was a lot better last year. lect their NBA championship gusted that the sides couldn’t We had business before every rings in the Nov. 1 season open-work out an agreement and game, during every game with er, and that James Dolan won’t were willing to cause so much people who couldn’t get tickets be able to show off his renovat-damage following such a suc­watching in here, then after ev-ed Madison Square Garden to a cessful season. ery game. Now it’s gone, except sold-out crowd when New York “All I can think about, and for when they have a concert or hosts the Heat’s Big Three the I’m not trying to sound like I’m something like that.” next night. on my soapbox here, but all I 


Molina said she never be-But owners might be the lucky can think about are the thou­lieved the NBA would cancel ones. They can still recoup sands and thousands of arena, Jim Couch, city manager of on its regular prime-time line-games until Monday, when the some of their losses, and that’s team and hospitality employees Oklahoma City, was concerned up to fill the six games it would league announced it was scrap-what Stern said they could at-that are now going to be out of for restaurants, hotels and vol-have televised. 
work,” said Andrew Feinstein, unteer groups in his city. The Adidas, the league’s official a bar owner and season ticket Thunder are coming off their outfitter, and fellow sneaker holder in Denver. “I thought the most successful season since giant Nike said they remained owners and players had an ob-relocating from Seattle, reach-committed to basketball and ligation to work this thing out ing the Western Conference fi-could seek additional exposure while continuing to play the nals last year behind NBA scor-at the collegiate or internation­game, given the dire economic ing champion Kevin Durant, al levels. circumstances that are taking and have developed one of the Stern and union president place in our country right now.” league’s most passionate fan Derek Fisher of the Lakers ex-
A lengthy lockout will be felt bases. pressed disappointment for strongest in the NBA’s small-“What I’m more concerned fans. Players and owners had market cities. In Salt Lake City, about than anything else is the the luxury of knowing just how a Marriott hotel was taking momentum that the city has complex the issues were and cancellations Tuesday for about gotten, disrupting the momen-had two years to prepare them­40 rooms previously booked tum with the Thunder. It was a selves financially for a moment by the Memphis Grizzlies the special year last year with the that Fisher said was “what we night of Nov. 2. Tyson Lybbert, Thunder, and I think everybody anticipated would probably director of sales and marketing was looking forward to con-happen.” for the Salt Lake Marriott City tinue that,” Couch said. “I think “This is a big blow obviously Center, said each game brings it’s almost a love affair between to our fans, most important-between $5,000 and $10,000 to the community and the team, ly,” he said. “They don’t have the chain. and you hate to disrupt that.” a voice in this fight so far, but 
Without a lockout, basketball Business went on for the we hear them loud and clearly. already would have been back league’s partners. ESPN was They want basketball, we want by now. The exhibition sched-scheduled to show seven games to play basketball, and we’re ule was to have opened Sunday, during the opening two weeks going to do the responsible and even preseason games can and plans to replace them thing and try our best to bring bring big crowds to restaurants mostly with college football and them basketball as soon as we and bars near NBA arenas. basketball games. TNT will rely possibly can.” 



NASCAR 

Johnson graces newest SI cover 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Five-time defending NASCAR cham­pion Jimmie Johnson will be on the cover of “Sports Illustrated” magazine that goes on sale Wednesday. 
It’s Johnson’s second time on the cover — he was also fea­tured in 2008 after his third title — but its only the 10th time Sports Illustrated has featured NASCAR nationally on the front of the magazine. 
Johnson said Tuesday he was unaware of the so-called SI cover jinx and doesn’t believe it will factor into whether or not he claims a sixth consecutive title this season. 
“There’s nothing to worry about. If I lose the champion­ship it has nothing to do with being on the cover of a maga­zine,” he said during an ap­pearance at the NASCAR Hall of Fame. “It would mean we didn’t do our jobs, or we had some bad luck and didn’t win a race. 
“It’s no concern. I didn’t real­ize there was a curse. I thought it was being on the cover of a video game, that was the curse. I think it’s just a bunch of peo­ple making (stuff) up.” 
The curse is an urban legend, but there’s no denying that ath­letes and teams that have been featured on the cover had bad luck after. Atlanta Braves third baseman Eddie Mathews was widely considered to be the first person affected by the jinx after his 1954 cover in the debut year of SI. He broke his hand after and missed seven games. 
More recent examples are Olympic gold medal hopeful Lindsey Vonn injuring her leg the same week she was on the cover in 2010, Chicago Bears quarterback Jay Cutler injuring his knee and the Bears losing to Green Bay after Cutler was on the cover before January’s NFC championship game. Last month, the Buffalo Bills were featured regionally for the first time since 2003 and promptly lost to Cincinnati. 
But Johnson has always be­lieved he’s in charge of his own fate and isn’t superstitious be­yond admittedly fixating on his car No. 48 when setting alarms. 
I was (superstitious) early in my career and over time noth­ing ever, ever really made a dif­ference and I quickly aborted,” he said. “I just don’t think it changes the setup of the car or makes anything work any bet­ter, you know?” 
Johnson won Sunday at Kan­sas to move to third in the standings. He trails leader Carl Edwards by four points with six races remaining in the Chase for the Sprint Cup champion­ship. 
The first NASCAR specific SI cover was Bill Elliott in Sept. 1985. 

NFL 

Broncos coach tabs Tebow as starting quarterback 
team. None of us are doing a good enough job.” 
There also was a twinge of excitement in the locker room over Tebow’s promotion Tues­day. 
“He’s just a baller, an all-out baller,” linebacker Joe Mays-said. “Some people may call him unorthodox, but at the end of the day, he gets the job done.” 
The Broncos will have to ad­just their offense for Tebow, but Fox downplayed the difficulty. 
“Well, it’s not like we signed him off the street,” Fox said. “He’s been in meetings the whole season.” 
The Broncos will have to de­termine if they want to contin­ue pressing Tebow to become a prototypical pro passer or focus on capitalizing on skills that made him a great combination college quarterback — some say the best ever. 
Do they spend time on his me­chanics and motion or add more shotgun snaps and designed runs to the game plan? 
There’s a list a football field long of running quarterbacks who didn’t survive long in the NFL, yet Tebow brushes that off. 
“Honestly, I’ve heard that a lot, heard that my whole life and I see a lot of good quarter­backs running the ball really effectively from Steve Young all the way down,” Tebow said. “So, I’m going to try to do whatever they ask me to do and if that’s hand the ball off, if that’s drop back, if that’s run around, I’ll do whatever I can do to help this team win football games.” 
Tebow did show more pa­tience in the pocket Sunday, progressing through his reads and buying some time. Still on his to-do list are little things like repeating his release point and keeping his palms togeth­er when he takes J.D. Walton’s snaps from under center. 

“That’s something that we did in practice today and got a lot better at because before that game I’d probably taken a hand­ful of snaps with him this year,” Tebow said. 
Hindering the Broncos and their new quarterback, how­ever, is the new collective bar­gaining agreement that stipu­lates teams must give players four consecutive days off during the bye week. So, the Broncos will only get two practices total­ing about four hours this week, then take a four-day furlough during which only injured play­ers can come in, and then only to get treatment. 
According to the CBA, during that four-day stretch, players cannot participate in club-su­pervised workouts or practices, meetings with coaches, film study with coaches or playbook study with coaches. 
“Well, I don’t think there’s any rules against like watching film or throwing on my own or continuing to work on things,” Tebow said with a smile. “So, I’ll probably try to do that.” 
Wide receiver Eric Decker said he’s willing to give up his vacation to work out the kinks with Tebow. 
“If he wants you to come in and throw some routes and get that timing to win a football game, I’ll do anything at this point,” Decker said. 
Despite a resume that in­cludes All-America honors, two national championships and a Heisman Trophy, Tebow never came close to beating out Orton in the summer of 2010 or 2011. 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — Tim Tebow didn’t win the Denver Broncos’ starting quarterback job as much as Kyle Orton lost it. 
Either way, Tebow has ditched his cap and clipboard and is now the starring attraction in Denver. 
Coach John Fox made the switch official Tuesday, an­nouncing Tebow will start against the Miami Dolphins when the Broncos return from their bye week. 
He supplants Orton, who has struggled ever since win­ning the job with a spectacular training camp. 
“Well, I think 1-4 has a lot to do with it,” Fox said. “We haven’t gotten it done as a foot­ball team. It’s not one guy. It’s not all Kyle Orton’s fault. But we do have to make adjustments, we have to change and we have to do something to win football games.” 
Orton didn’t carry over his sensational summer into the regular season, turning the ball over nine times and losing the organization’s confidence and a string of winnable games as the Broncos stumbled to another bad start. 
Fox had seen enough by half­time Sunday when he benched Orton and sent in Tebow. After a slow start, the former Florida star sparked a listless offense to within a last-gasp pass of com­ing back against San Diego. 
As the Broncos trudged off the field, the stadium shook with a thunderous roar of “Tebow! Tebow! Tebow!” 
Fox appreciates their passion but said the fans, who have been calling for Tebow ever louder by the week, had nothing to do with this move. 
“It’s not so much fan outcry as we’re in a result-oriented busi­ness, and we’re 1-4,” Fox said. “It’s not one guy. We’ll see if this helps.” 
Tebow had his troubles — rust, three fumbled snaps and six misfires in 10 pass attempts 
— but he ran for a touchdown and threw for another while en­ergizing the Broncos and fans frustrated by a franchise mired in mediocrity since its last win­ning season in 2005. 
After thinking things over for a day and watching the game film, Fox decided to go all-in with Tebow. 
It’s time to see what he has in the popular and polarizing 24-year-old lefty, one of the most accomplished players in the history of college football but one whose skill set doesn’t fit the mold of a prototypical pro passer. 
Fox informed Orton and Tebow of his decision privately before telling the team at their 8 a.m. meeting Tuesday. 
“He’s the coach. He makes the decisions,” Orton said. “I’m the player, and I live with it.” 
Cornerback Andre’ Goodman said in a subdued locker room that the players felt bad that Orton had to take the fall for the team’s failures — they rank 25th in the league in both of­fense and defense. 
“At the end of the day, we’re all disappointed for Kyle be­cause it almost implicates him” as the reason for the 1-4 start, Goodman said. “It’s not the case. It could’ve been me. It could’ve been anybody on this 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

South Carolina QB Garcia kicked off team 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — Stephen Garcia won’t get a sixth chance to play quarterback for No. 15 South Carolina. 
Garcia, who had been suspend­ed and brought back to the team five previous times, was dismissed Tuesday for failing an alcohol test, a person familiar with the decision said. The person spoke to The As­sociated Press on condition of ano­nymity because South Carolina had not announced specifically why Garcia had been kicked off the team. 
The person told the AP Garcia had agreed to undergo periodic tests for the presence of any alco­hol as a condition of his reinstate­ment. 
Athletic director Eric Hyman would only say that Garcia was released after the fifth-year senior failed to meet agreed-upon guide­lines. 
“Being a student-athlete at the University of South Carolina is a privilege, not a right and we re­mind all of our student-athletes that there are consequences for their actions,” Hyman said in a statement. 
Garcia told The AP in a text mes­sage Tuesday that he was “shocked and completely flabbergasted to be honest” by the dismissal. He said he would have a full statement later in the week. 
The quarterback was suspend­ed from all team activities in April for unacceptable conduct at a life-skills seminar. He was condi­tionally approved to workout with teammates in May, then reinstated fully last August just before foot­ball camp began. 
Hyman and coach Steve Spur­rier said then Garcia had to live up to several regulations to keep his spot in the program. 
“Unfortunately,” Hyman con­tinued, Garcia “has not been able to abide by those guidelines and therefore forfeited his position on the roster.” 
Garcia started 34 games, includ­ing four this season, for the Game­cocks since arriving on campus in January 2007. He was demoted to second string behind sophomore Connor Shaw on Oct. 3 by Spur­rier for inconsistent play and did not take part in a 54-3 blowout of Kentucky last Saturday. 
Spurrier was asked earlier Tuesday if Garcia would be Shaw’s backup when the Gamecocks trav­el to Mississippi State on Saturday. 
“We’ll see how all that works out this week,” Spurrier said. 
About an hour later, Garcia was gone. 


NFL 

Defenders adhere to new tackling guidelines 
Associated Press and on protecting defenseless adapt. Anderson and McKay players and we will be aggres-are seeing evidence they have. 
HOUSTON — No NFL players sive on protecting player safe-So is Commissioner Roger have come close to being sus-ty, very protective. Certainly Goodell. pended for illegal hits through everyone will need more edu-“I think we showed a reel of five weeks of the season. The cation as we go along and we plays today that showed the number of fines for such hits is will proceed on that. game has changed,” Goodell down. “There have been fewer fines, said. “Players are using tech­
That’s an indication players but not significantly fewer. We niques other than using their are adjusting their tackling have come nowhere near any (helmets). We’re seeing signifi­styles, well aware of the in-suspension decisions and that cant change.” creasing emphasis on player is encouraging.” Added Anderson: “It cer­safety. It hardly makes pro Just under one year ago, the tainly appears players have football the safest sport out league clamped down on fla-lowered their targets, adjusted there, and the rules remain grant hits after a weekend of their play. We are seeing more fuzzy for many defensive play-reckless tackling led to hefty fundamental tackling and we ers, including Bears star line-fines for Pittsburgh linebacker are encouraged by that.” backer Brian Urlacher. He was James Harrison, New England Following the 4½-month penalized for what certainly safety Brandon Meriweather lockout, there was concern appeared to be a shoulder-on-(now with Chicago) and At-that such fundamentals would shoulder tackle on Tony Schef-lanta cornerback Dunta Rob-be lost as teams hurried to get fler in Monday night’s victory inson. In the offseason, owners playbooks installed, evaluate by the Lions. One play later, passed rules suggested by the talent and prepare for the reg-Matthew Stafford hit Brandon competition committee, which ular season. Instead, Anderson Pettigrew for an 18-yard touch-Anderson oversees along with and McKay are seeing a safer down. Falcons President Rich McKay, game, albeit through only five 
“I would never say there is no that further protected defense-weeks of a 17-week schedule. gray area,” NFL executive vice less players. That included at-“Certainly coaches are do-president of football operations tempts to eliminate launch-ing a better job coaching to the Ray Anderson told The Associ-ing at an opponent headfirst, rules,” Anderson said. “Players ated Press on Tuesday. “But on among the most dangerous seem to be playing to the rules the field, officials are doing the maneuvers in football — or any better, and that also is encour­job they should be. sport, for that matter. aging.” 


“We are moving full speed The committee hoped coach-The most controversial rules 
with our emphasis on safety es and players would readily change this year came in the the kickoff rule and the subse-booth and the referee. kicking game, with kickoffs quent reduction in returns, one The key should not be time moved up to the 35-yard line. of football’s most exciting and saved, however, it should be McKay notes that touchbacks dangerous plays, he admitted: getting calls right. Impetus are up more than the league “We knew it was a change and for the change came because anticipated, which also could it would be one that initially coaches of road teams were be a function of good weather. was not perceived positively. It not always getting a fair shake 
“It has not affected offen-was done 100 percent for safe-when it came to replays made sive production from a scoring ty reasons.” available in away stadiums. standpoint,” he added with a Goodell mentioned a “new One problem that could arise sly smile. tracking system” for injuries from reviewing every touch-
No, it hasn’t: that should enable the league down, field goal, safety and 
•	 
The 3,566 points to be on top of any trends. extra point is having on-field scored through Week 5 are the “When injuries occur, we officials signal a score when in most at this point of any season can see how, see video of them, doubt, knowing the play will be in NFL history. what type of injuries they are,” reviewed. 

•	 
Total net yards per he said. “We’ve always worried that game (712.0) would be the Perhaps as notable — and people will officiate based on highest for any season should noticeable — as the kickoff replay, but there is no evidence it hold. change has been the decision at all of that,” McKay said. 

•	 
Net yards passing per to conduct video reviews of ev-One other item that came up game (489.2) would be the ery scoring play. The league’s this season was defensive play-highest of any season, too. goal has been to make it non-ers faking injuries to slow no­

•	 
The 46.31 points per invasive and Anderson said the huddle offenses, something the game would be the second-amount of delay time has been New York Giants were accused highest average for a single slightly down this season. He of in their Week 2 victory over season in NFL history (1948, hoped it would be “neutral” St. Louis. The league sent a 46.48). and credits that reduction in memo to each team emphasiz-


While McKay said there has delays to the mechanics of the ing the need to eliminate such been no “backlash” regarding system involving the replay tactics. 



WNBA 

Lynx hold championship parade 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS — Lindsay Whalen sat in the back of a con­vertible, scanning the delighted crowd for kids to toss candy to. 
On her right was Seimone Augustus, waving and smiling as the Minnesota Lynx cara­van crawled through downtown Minneapolis in celebration of their first WNBA title. 
Between them was the shiny basketball-shaped trophy. 
The Lynx don’t draw the at­tention the Vikings, Twins or Gophers get, but that didn’t matter on this day. This was a championship parade, the kind of community pride Minnesota sports fans have been craving. 
“Awesome. Awesome. Awe­some,” Whalen said afterward at Target Center, after the eight-block ride down Nicollet Mall and 7th Street in front of a crowd the Lynx estimated at 15,000. 
Workers on lunch break Tues­day streamed out of the sky­scrapers in their suits, grinning at the unexpected entertain­ment as the players, coaches and staff went by. People lined up about five deep at the points where the car carrying Augus­tus and Whalen passed. Confetti was poured down from some of the rooftops. 
Students who got out of school hammed it up, enjoying their freedom. Long-time fans — of a team that didn’t win a playoff se­ries from the franchise’s start in 1999 until this year — cheered in green and white T-shirts. 
The Lynx just soaked up the sun and the praise on an un­seasonably warm day before heading inside for a rally with video highlights, dance music and grateful speeches from the main attractions. About 5,000 people showed up for that part of the party, four days after the Lynx finished their three-game sweep of the Atlanta Dream in the finals. 
“They were just so solid. Ev­ery player contributed,” said one fan, A.C. Flynn, who joined the celebration with Amy Jones. 
Flynn and Jones recently moved to Minneapolis from St. Louis and attended several games this summer. They’ve got season tickets for next year. Shortly before they relocated, Jones recalled, they watched the Lynx take Maya Moore, one of their favorite players, with the first pick in the draft. 
“We were just jumping up and down,” Flynn said. 
The WNBA is a niche league, but the success of the Lynx spread to the mainstream in a market where the big-time teams have struggled badly lately. The Vikings are 1-4. The Twins lost 99 times this year. The Gophers football team has been beaten in consecutive Big Ten games by a combined score of 103-17. The Timberwolves aren’t even playing because the NBA is in a lockout. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish look to move on after rough showing 


By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The good news for the Irish is the remainder of their sched­ule does not feature a level of competition as rigorous as last weekend’s Tar Heel Invitation­al. 
The Irish struggled with a last-place finish in a tourna­ment featuring 13 teams ranked in the top-25 of the most recent Golf World Coaches Poll. 
The team will look to recap­ture the success that made last season the best in program his­tory at the Indiana University Fall Invitational in Carmel, Ind. on Oct. 17. 
At the Tar Heel Invitational, the Irish finished 45-over par, which left them in 18th place. No. 3 LSU, the highest-ranked team entering the tournament, finished in first place at 8-un­der par. 
“It was not a good overall team performance,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We have to compete better at a higher lev­el and have been beating our­selves far too much.” 
Senior captain Becca Huffer led the Irish as she placed tied for 50th shooting 8-over par for the three round tournament. Meanwhile, freshman Ashley Armstrong finished one stroke behind Huffer at 9-over par. 
MIAA 
continued from page 20 
For the first time in Saint Mary’s history, two players — now senior Audrey Dalrymple and former senior Ellie Wat­son — were both named to the All-MIAA team. Dalrymple returns this year with fellow seniors Katie Donovan and Me­gan Price as co-captains. 
“All three are returning cap­tains, so they hold a large lead­ership role,” Benishek said. “They are great examples in the water and out, especially for the new swimmers joining the team.” 
The Belles will face their first competition Oct. 22, when they will race against the oth­er teams in the MIAA Relays. Benishek said he hopes to im­prove his team’s results this season. 
“I think that the goal always is to shoot for a higher, lofti-
The 54-hole IU Fall Invita­tional will be played in only two days, with golfers playing 36 holes on Monday and the re­maining 18 on Tuesday. 
“Our ball striking has been good [in both of our tourna­ments],” Holt said. “Unfortu­nately, we haven’t been able to find the hole [in a low number of strokes].” 
The tournament will be played at Crooked Stick Golf Club, near Indianapolis. The par-72 golf course recently hosted the U.S. Senior Open in 2009 and also served as the site of the 1991 PGA Championship. 
Huffer’s familiarity with the course may work to Notre Dame’s benefit as the senior played at Crooked Stick in a 
U.S. Women’s Amateur event in 2010. 
“Becca’s a very solid player, and possesses the capability to [score] low on any given day,” Holt said regarding her senior captain. 
Following the IU Fall Invita­tional, the Irish conclude the fall portion of their schedule with a return trip to North Car­olina from October 28-30 for the Landfall Tradition hosted by the University of North Caro­lina-Wilmington. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
er goals no matter where you are,” Benishek said. “We had those goals set and we have a lot of strong swimmers still re­turning.” 
The size of the Belles squad is still a worry for Benishek. The team is composed of 11 swimmers and has no divers. But he said having a small squad can also have its ben­efits.  
“I wish there was a little more depth, but we’re such a small squad,” Benishek said. “The girls are very strong and very close to one another. They are a tight and unique unit and that makes us strong and helps us to achieve some of those goals individuals and as a team as a whole.” 
The Belles will hit the pool Oct. 22 at the MIAA Relays in Holland, Mich. while their first dual meet is Oct. 28 against Kalamazoo at home. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles hope to end losing skid 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 

The Belles will look to halt a two-match losing streak and gain ground in the MIAA when they take on Olivet to­day. 
The Belles (6-9, 4-6 MIAA) currently sit in sixth place in the MIAA. 
Six matches remain on the Belles’ conference schedule as they attempt to push into the top four in the standings and earn a spot in a four-team playoff to determine the conference’s representative at the NCAA tournament. 
The Belles are one game behind fifth-place Trine and one-and-a-half behind fourth-place Kalamazoo. A win against seventh-place Olivet (4-17, 2-8 MIAA) will help the Belles distance themselves from the bottom of the league and put pres­sure on teams above them. 
“We need a big win tomor­row,” Belles coach Toni Kus­chel said. “We can’t split with everybody.” 
Offensively the Belles are led by freshman Kati Schnei­der who leads the team with 
3.17 kills/game. Along with juniors Stepahnie Bodien and Allison Zandarski, Schneider figures to have an opportunity for a breakout game against an Olivet team that has al­lowed their opponents to hit with the highest percentage in the MIAA. The Comets also have the lowest hitting per­centage in the conference. 
As it has all year, the Belles’ offense will flow through ju­nior Danie Brink whose 8.44 
assists/game is tops on the team and fourth in the MIAA. 
“Our offense really needs to step up and run efficiently to­morrow,” Kuschel said. “The defense has been rock-solid the past two weeks.” 
When the Belles and Com­ets met on Sept. 10, Saint Mary’s emerged with a 3-0 win. With just six games re­maining on their conference schedule, the Belles need a similar result Wednesday against Olivet if they hope to push into the top four in the MIAA. 
“We know that they’ve got­ten a lot better,” Kuschel said. “We’ve seen their hitters per­form against some of the top teams in their conference, but we know that we’re better as well.” 
The match has been dubbed “Dig for the Cure” night by Saint Mary’s, which has deco­rated the gym in pink for the match. Officials and players will wear pink to support the fight against breast cancer. In addition, both teams have worked to raise money for the cause. 
“Our players have been selling sponsorships per dig that they get [Wednesday],” Kuschel said. “Hopefully we play good defense and raise a lot of money.” 
The Belles will take on Oliv­et at 7 p.m. tonight at Saint Mary’s. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Purdue works on running game 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
— Purdue has given up its high-flying passing game for a ground-and-pound style. 
The Boilermakers have long been known for their aerial prowess — former Purdue quarterbacks Drew Brees, Kyle Orton and Curtis Painter have started in the NFL this season. But with injuries at quarterback the past two years, Purdue has gradually shifted to a run-first approach. 
The Boilermakers (3-2, 1-0 Big Ten) have had some success, too. They rank 20th out of 120 teams nationally with 215 yards rushing per game heading into Satur­day’s game at Penn State (5­1, 2-0). 
The Boilermakers will be challenged to do as well on Saturday. Penn State ranks 17th nationally in run de­fense and fourth overall. 
Purdue has rushed for nearly 1,100 yards as a team, but the team’s leader, Ralph Bolden, has just 273 yards. Akeem Shavers has run for 242 yards and speedy fresh­man Akeem Hunt has 141 yards. 
“We have a good stable of healthy backs here now,” Purdue coach Danny Hope said. “We have some older backs that are tough guys and physical at the running back spot. I think all that is a big part of the chemistry of our football team and our of­fense right now.” 
Quarterback Caleb Ter-Bush has rushed for 120 yards, and Reggie Pegram, Brandon Cottom, Raheem Mostert and receiver Anta­vian Edison also have con­tributed to the rushing num­bers. 
“We’ll take Antavian Edi­son and put him in the back­field, or take a good running back out of the backfield and put him in the slot posi­tion and have a plan to get the ball in our play makers’ hands a certain amount of times,” Hope said. “It’s our game plan.” 
It works in part because the Boilermakers’ multiple backs maintain their energy. 
“I feel great every game because we rotate in every other series,” Shavers said. “We all get reps and stay fresh, so we get to come back in and run like it’s the first drive again.” 
TerBush is impressed that Shavers has adjusted quickly from junior college. 
“It’s good to see Akeem pick up the offense really well,” TerBush said. “He’s a humble person and he’s got that go get ‘em attitude. He’ll do whatever he can to help out the team.” 
Bolden entered the season with the pedigree. He ripped through Toledo for 234 yards rushing in Purdue’s season-opening 52-31 win in 2009, the third-highest single-game total in school history. 
He followed that with 123 yards rushing and two touchdowns and three catch­es for 52 yards and another score against Oregon. He had 136 yards from scrim­mage and three touchdowns against Michigan and two more scores against Michi­gan State. He finished that season with 1,196 yards from scrimmage and 11 total touchdowns, and his future looked bright. 
He missed last season while recovering from a torn ACL he suffered during spring practice, and Purdue went 4-8 without him. Now, he’s sharing carries so the team can keep him healthy. 
“He’s still a great player, still a huge part of our offen­sive plan and the best player we have,” Hope said. 
TerBush has noticed that Bolden and Shavers get along, despite competition for the starting job. 
“There’s no hard feelings as far as him and Ralph,” he said. “You can tell they’re re­ally good friends. They love the game of football, and they work at it every day for the betterment of the team.” 


Usher 
continued from page 20 
The Irish will have the op­portunity to bring six golfers to Kiawah, a chance that Ku­binski said the team appreci­ates. 
“Obviously at a course like Kiawah we want to bring as many golfers as possible be­cause it’s such a fantastic place to play,” Kubinski said. “We’ve had our first five the entire season, so we’re work­ing on getting that sixth.” 
With a number of strong finishes the Irish have climbed into 20th place in the latest “Golfstat” rank­ings released, the first time the Irish have been ranked this year. 
“It’s definitely nice to see us getting some recognition,” Kubinski said. “Those rank­ings fluctuate a lot week to week with the computers, so they’re not our first prior­ity.” 
At this point in the season, Kubinski said, the first pri­ority is trying to finish the fall season strong going into the winter. 
“We’re just trying to achieve consistency in our play in preparation now for the spring,” Kubinski said. “All year long we’ve had two or three good rounds per tournament when we’ve re­ally needed everybody. We have the right pieces. It’s just putting together the pieces.” 

The Irish will look to se­niors Usher, Max Scodro and Chris Walker to provide that consistency at Kiawah, one of the top courses in the country and host to the 2012 PGA Championship. 
“The guys are really ex­cited to be playing at such a great facility,” Kubinski said. “That course will test us, but we’re ready.” 
The Irish begin play at the Invitational at Kiawah on Oct. 17 at the Ocean Course in Kiawah Island, S.C. 


Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 





JAMES DOAN/The Observer 
Junior Spencer Talmadge hits a serve during the Tom Fallon Invitational on Sept. 24. Talmadge won his match in three sets. 
cial to us.” 
Sachire 
Despite the staunch com­petition this weekend, the continued from page 20 Irish hope to come away 
with a victory at the Midwest nique down. Over the past Singles/Doubles Champion-week, we have gone back ships in Columbus, starting to competing and think-Thursday. ing about how we are going to play [this weekend]. The Contact walker Carey at          break has been very benefi-wcarey@nd.edu 

Ties 
continued from page 20 
Senior goalie Will Walsh leads an Irish defense that has given up 0.91 goals per game this year. Walsh has four shut­outs this year, including three in the last five matches. 
Walsh relies on an experi­enced backline that features junior Grant Van De Casteele and seniors Greg Klazura, Aaron Maund and Michael Knapp. Both Van De Casteele and Klazura have been named the Big East Defensive Player of the Week while Maund was tabbed a preseason All-Amer­ican. 
Marquette (5-5-2, 3-0-0) en­ters the matchup as the only remaining unbeaten and un­tied squad in the Big East. 
The Eagles are currently in first place in the Blue Division while the Irish are in sixth. 
“It’s a tough place to play,” Clark said. “We played them in the Big East tournament last year and it was a dog fight and that was in our place. That’s what makes this such a great soccer league.” 
Notre Dame topped the Golden Eagles 2-1 in last year’s Big East quarterfinals. The Irish have not lost to Mar­quette since 1990, when the Golden Eagles grabbed a 4-0 victory. 
Despite the solid history against Marquette, Clark said the height of the Golden Ea­gles poses a huge threat. 
“They have a lot of good players, a lot of strong se­niors, a lot of height,” Clark said. “They’re very good at set pieces.” 

The Marquette starting lineup features four players taller than 6-foot-2, posing a problem for the smaller Irish defenders as Van De Casteele is the only Notre Dame starter that matches up. 
Freshman forward James Nortey leads Marquette in scoring with six goals and one assist. In net, junior goal­ie David Check has posted one shutout and a 1.16 goals against average so far this season. 
“We’re very excited for the game, it should be a good crowd,” Clark said. “Every­body loves to hate Notre Dame, so it should be fun.” 
Notre Dame and Marquette kick off Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Milwaukee. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at          mdefrank@nd.edu 
Regionals 
continued from page 20 
Although seniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews competed in the All-American Championships in Pacific Palisades, Calif., last week, this tournament will be the first competition for the rest of the team since the Indiana Invitational on Sept. 25. 
Frilling and Mathews will be aiming to put a dis­appointing All-American performance behind them. Frilling dropped her open­ing match to Baylor senior Sona Novakova in three sets Friday, and as a pair Frill­ing and Mathews lost their first round doubles match to sophomore Brynn Boren and freshman Sara Toti of Ten­nessee the next day. 
Mathews won her first qualifying match Tuesday before falling to South Caro­lina senior Dijana Stojic in a third set tiebreaker later that night and failed to qualify for the main draw. 
McGaffigan is hoping the team’s effort in the past few months will lead to more pos­itive results next week. 
“Our team has been work­ing hard on fine tuning our games for this tournament and we are all focused on doing well and competing hard,” she said. “Our goals are to win as many matches as we can, and to steadily im­prove with each match.” 
Competition will begin with qualifying play and the win­ners will move on to the main draw, which begins Oct. 21. 
The tournament will be held at Ohio State, which boasts three different tennis facilities. 
“The courts at OSU are nice,” McGaffigan said. “Sin­gles and doubles of the main draw will be indoors, while some of the consolation draw may be outdoors.” 

The Irish will be back in ac­tion at the Midwest Regional Championships on Oct. 20. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at           vjacobse@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT                              AND JEFF KNUREK 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, October 12, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S SOCCER 
No. 11 Irish travel to Milwaukee to face Golden Eagles 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off a scoreless draw with top-ranked Connecticut, Notre Dame will head to Mil­waukee to play Big East foe Marquette Wednesday. 
Despite tying with the top team in the country, Irish coach Bobby Clark said this game may be just as tough — if not tougher — than their previous one. 
“You go from one hard game to another,” Clark said. “This will be a harder game in many respects. [It’s] in Mil­waukee, on the road, against a team that has one loss in their past seven games.” 
The No. 11 Irish (5-2-4, 1-1­1 Big East) enter the contest on the heels of three straight double-overtime games. Af­ter dropping a 2-1 decision to 
Big East brawl 


St. John’s on Oct. 1, the Irish be nice,” Clark said. “We’ve in regulation but you play the have tied their last two oppo-played a tough schedule, not hand that’s been dealt and nents. a lot between the teams and we’ve been dealt ties.” 
“We need to score one more you end up with close games. goal in regulation, that would It would be nice to win a few see TIES/page 18 
SMC SWIMMING 
Coach says small team can succeed 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Coming into his second sea­son as head coach, Mark Ben­ishek is ready to take his small squad to big lengths. 
“We have a lot of returning girls,” said Benishek. “We still have a smaller squad this sea­son, but we have some really strong swimmers, and some of our new additions are really starting to show promise.” 
The Belles finished their 2010-11 season ranked fifth in the MIAA conference after a strong run to end the season. The team had a slow start, but ended the season at the MIAA Swimming and Diving Cham­pionships, placing fifth out of seven teams despite presenting no divers for competition. 
see MIAA/page 16 
MEN’S GOLF 

Senior leads squad into invitational at Kiawah 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
With the fall season wind­ing down, the Irish look to gain momentum for the spring season as they travel to South Carolina next week for the Invitational at Ki­awah Island on Kiawah’s famed Ocean Course. 
While the three-week lay­off between events could provide an opportunity for rust to form Irish coach Jim Kubinski said his team has retained its edge over the break. 
“We’ve been playing some great golf recently in prac­tice,” Kubinski said. “And on fall days like these that’s re­ally a joy. [Senior] Tom Ush­er has been shooting in the mid-60s and is looking really good.” 
see USHER/page 17 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish return to action against region’s best 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The entire team will be back on the court over fall break as the Irish travel to Columbus to compete in the Midwest Regional Champion­ships on Oct. 20. 
“Our team has been work­ing hard on fine-tuning our games for this tournament and we are all focused on doing well and competing hard,” junior Chrissie McGaf­figan said. “I’m pretty sure our whole team will com­pete.” 
Although Notre Dame will not add a win or loss to its official team record at the tournament, there is still plenty at stake for the indi­vidual competitors. 
“Regionals are exciting be­cause the top players in the Midwest compete for quali­fying spots at Indoor Nation­als,” McGaffigan said. “Some of the top teams will be some of the Big 10 schools like Northwestern, Michigan, Il­linois, Ohio State and Michi­gan State.” 
see REGIONALS/page 18 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Top competition awaits team 

By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 

The Irish will return to ac­tion Thursday for the first time since Sept. 25 when they compete in the Midwest Singles/Doubles Champion­ships at Ohio State. Before the tournament, the top 56 players in the midwest are placed in the main draw. The final eight spots in the draw are determined through the qualifying round that will take place Thursday. 
The Irish lead the field with nine players in the main draw, including seniors Niall Fitzgerald, Sam Keeton and Casey Watt. 
The Irish also have three players who will be compet­ing for the eight qualifying spots, junior Spencer Tal­madge and freshmen Doug Barnard and Michael Fred­ericka. 
Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said the tour­nament will feature tough competition, but he is confi­dent the Irish will be able to compete at a high level. 
“If I had to describe the lev­el of competition in one word, it would be ‘fierce’” Sachire said. “Ohio State has eight very good players in the main draw. Illinois, Michigan and Michigan State have several tough players in [the main draw]. It will definitely be a competitive weekend and that is exciting for everybody. 
The Irish had success in the event last year when six Irish players advanced to the round of 16. Sachire does not believe that it is unfair to ex­pect the same this year. 
“I think we should have at least as many [in the round of 
16] this year,” Sachire said. “It does depend on the draws that some of our guys will get, but that many or more is definitely a realistic expecta­tion.” 
Sachire said he is also ex­cited with the progress his squad has made since they last competed. 
“We have been able to ac­complish a lot since we last played,” Sachire said. “At first, we focused on reinforc­ing some fundamentals, such as utilizing our serves to set up our offense and some gen­eral volley work. The guys have done a great job mak­ing sure they have their tech-
see SACHIRE/page 18 





