the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Tickets use web for campaigns 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
Despite more stringent rules on campaigns for student body president and vice president, the five tickets in this year’s election used Facebook and other Internet promotions to spread their ideas while making personal connections around campus. 
Voting began at 8 a.m. this morning through a link sent to the entire student body from the Judicial Council. The voting site will close at 8 p.m. 
Judicial Council president Marcelo Perez said the Council monitors the elections closely in order to ensure the campaigns proceed ethically and fairly. 
The Judicial Council made many changes to the rules in the constitution prior to this year’s election, including revi­sions to its Facebook policy. 
“Facebook statuses may now say ‘Vote for [candidate’s name]’ on the day of the elec­tion, whereas last year this was prohibited,” Perez said. 
The link to the voting website is also not allowed to be distrib­uted through networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter. 
“Concerning the actual Election Day the most impor­tant rule will be that now on [only] the Judicial Council will be allowed to distribute the election link,” Perez said. “Any 
see ELECTION/page 4 



Finding a shared future 
South Bend mayor reflects on partnership with Notre Dame 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 

South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke clearly recalls meet­ing with University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy on campus about 15 years ago when he first stepped into the role of mayor of South Bend. 
It was the first of many meetings between Luecke and University officials that would define a decade and a half of collaborations on proj­ects such as Innovation Park and Eddy Street Commons. It was the new mayor’s first access to a relationship with Notre Dame that would be sometimes challenging and often rewarding. 
“There were some bumps in the road from time to time,” Luecke said, specifi­cally noting debate about whether to pass an ordinance to ban off-campus student parties in 2007. “But that provided some other oppor­tunities for discussion that led to positive relations and finding ways to work through issues and understand differ­ent points of view.” 
Luecke, who has been mayor of South Bend since 1997, announced in December that he would not run for reelection next year. He is the longest-serving mayor in South Bend’s histo­ry. 
The mayor has led South Bend through inaugurations of two University presidents, two presidential visits to Notre Dame — Barack Obama in 2009 and George 

W. Bush in 2001 — and numerous debates over the years about the town-gown relationship. 
Luecke’s 14th-floor office in the County-City Building offers a sweeping view of the city, with the tower of Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary’s just visible to the north. He doesn’t interact with University officials on a daily basis, but collaboration is frequent, Luecke said in an interview in his downtown South Bend office. 
“Over the years, the rela­tionship has strengthened and developed,” he said. 
see MAYOR/page 4 




College students seek office 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s student body will see some new faces in leadership positions next week with student govern­ment elections Feb. 24. 
Twelve girls are seeking election in various campus 
organizations including Resident Hall Association (RHA), Student Activities Board (SAB), Student Diversity Board (SDB) and Student Government Association (SGA). 
Junior Kat Nelson is run­ning for the position of RHA president with Sarah Copi as her vice president. 
According to Nelson, their platform is “there’s no place like home.” 
Nelson and Copi plan to increase awareness of RHA on campus if they are elect­ed. They also hope to imple­ment hall improvements, interact with other clubs and organizations and establish a forum for student feedback. 
“We hope to continue mak­ing Saint Mary ’s feel like home to all of its students,” Nelson said. 
Allie Courtney, the current SAB president is seeking reelection with vice president Caitlyn Wonski. As president this past year, Courtney has increased the number of activities hosted by SAB from 
see SMC/page 5 



I-Domer-Rod participants race for Sullivan Fund 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
While most people on campus lament the mountains of snow that permanently cover the ground during the winter, dozens of students chose to embrace it and compete in Friday’s I-Domer-Rod race on South Quad, with proceeds benefiting the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund. 
The inaugural event, spon­sored by Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons and Sorin Halls, was modeled after the famous Iditarod sled race but involved 12 teams of two to seven stu­dents pulling sleds with one student “musher” through the snow. 
“I was quite surprised at how many people showed up and how excited people seemed to be about the event, especially because people are always a little wary of going to an event that’s not already well-known,” Lyons Hall co-president Meghan Eastman, one of the planners of the event, said. 
The event involved a women’s bracket, which included teams from Pangborn, Badin, Farley, Lyons and Cavanaugh, and a men’s bracket, which had teams from Knott, Alumni and Fisher. Team Cool Runnings from Pangborn emerged as the women’s champions, and the Knott Men won the men’s bracket. 
Each first place team received $75 to an Eddy Street Commons business of its choice, and the second place teams received $35. 
The event was the brainchild of Fisher president Brian Schwartze, Pangborn president Betsy McGovern, Lyons co-pres­idents Eastman and Catherine Gillespie and Sorin president Colin King, who created the event during a brainstorming session at the Team ND student 
see SLED/page 3 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Plunge leaves students cold page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Lectio Live celebrates History Month page 10  Hockey takes lead in standing page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, February 14, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TV SHOW FAMILY WOULD YOU MOST LIKE TO BE A PART OF?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Meaghan Veselik Nicole Toczauer Matthew Robison Caitlin Housley Matthew DeFranks 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Ankur Chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Troop mock kidnaps Prince’s bride-to-be 
LONDON — A British scout troop’s outdoor exercise depicting the mock kidnap­ping of Prince William’s bride-to-be has raised some eyebrows. 
The scouts’ annual “quest” in the small English town of Amersham, west of London, last week involved watching an actress playing Kate Middleton being kidnapped by a team of balaclava-clad men, according to a local newspaper. An actor playing Prince William then appealed to the 300 scouts, aged 11 to 13, to help him find his princess. 
Most of the scouts spent about eight hours hiking around the area looking for 
Kelsey Auten  Olivia Kilian  Sam Lee  Colleen McAleer  Maria Malm  Rachel Boggs  
junior  junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Cavanaugh  Holy Cross  Alumni  McCandless  McCandless  Pasquerilla East  

“The Gilmores  “The Bluths  “Claire and  “The Duggars”  “The Pickles  “Gloria’s family  
in Gilmore  from Arrested  Phil’s family in  from Rugrats”  from Modern  
Girls”  Development or Modern Family”  Family. She’s  
the Matthews in  crazy. I love  
Boy Meets  her.”  
World”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

clues to the location of the missing Middleton, according to the Buckinghamshire Advertiser. 
The paper quoted event organizer Brian Shelley as saying he did not see any­thing inappropriate in the rescue-the-princess-themed outing. 
Twilight fan says bite mark stems from vampire action 
MARATHON, Fla. — Authorities say a Florida teen has told police that bite marks on her body came from “Twilight”-inspired vampire role playing — not from someone who attacked her while she was out jog­ging. 
The South Florida Sun Sentinel reports that the Monroe County Sheriff’s Office has charged the 15­year-old girl with making a false report. 
Authorities say the girl is a fan of the vampire-based “Twilight” movies and books. The sheriff’s office says the girl had engaged in “fantasy biting” with a 19-year-old man in August and worried her mother would see the marks. She told her mother she had been attacked while jogging. 
When deputies couldn’t find evidence of the attack, the girl eventually revealed what really happened. 
No charges have been filed against the 19-year-old man. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The University Counseling Center is sponsoring “Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation” today at noon. The event takes place on the third floor conference room in Saint Liam Hall. 
SonnetFest 2011 takes place today from 11 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Shakespeare’s 154 son­nets will be read in 
O’Shaughnessy Hall’s Great Hall. 
The Saint Mary’s Sociology Club will host a movie night tonight at 7 p.m. in Vander Vennet. They will show “Love Actually,” and a Sociological discussion will follow. 
Ethics Week kicks off today with the lecture, “Sustainability at the University of Notre Dame” by Heather Christophersen, the director of sustainability of Notre Dame. The lecture takes place at 12:30 p.m. in Giovanini commons of the Mendoza College of Business. It is free and open to the pub­lic. 
Sculptor John Bisbee will give a presentation on his work in Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The presentation will take place at 
6:30 p.m. Tuesday and is free. 
Librarian Marsha Stevenson and Art Image Library Curator Dunise Massa will host a library workshop: “Finding and Using Images” Wednesday at 4 p.m. The workshop will be held in room 222 of Hesburgh Library. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight tuesday wednesday thursday friday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



34 28 HIGH 3638 4650
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


32 20 LOW 3237 4627 







Monday, February 14, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Bell to not seek election 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
With student body elections around the corner, campus is abuzz with election talk, and students have noticed that current student body vice president Andrew Bell’s name did not appear on any of the tickets. 
Bell said his decision not to run for re-election stemmed from his hoped to rather gain a position within Knott, his residence hall, as a resident assistant (RA). 
“Ever since I was a fresh­man, I have loved the dorm life at ND. Being from Florida I had two friends from ND, and the dorm com­munity was so great to me freshman year and really ever since,” Bell said. “What I really want to do next year then is be an RA and con­tribute to making ND’s dorm life what it is. 
“The opportunity to have a job where its your job to be in guy’s life and just to be able to get to know them, spend time with them and be able to guide them is really cool,” Bell said. “The fact that they can see Jesus’ love through your interactions and that’s a job is incredible to me.” 
Bell commented on the les­sons he learned this year, calling his year in office an incredible experience. 
“The thing that sticks out to me is how many unexpected things happened. We came in with a plan and the fall hit. We had to deal with the off-campus arrests, and then we hoped to help students as much as we could in the most trying times we encountered such as the passing of Declan Sullavan,” Bell said. “We just hoped we could improve stu­dent’s lives in some way, and many of the ways we had to were not things we could have ever foreseen.” 
Five tickets are running in this year’s student body gen­eral election: juniors Catherine Soler and Emily LeStrange, junior James Ward and freshman Heather Eaton, juniors Pat McCormick and Brett Rocheleau, juniors Ricky Bevington and Olivia Colangelo, and freshmen Kevin Noonan and Matthew Thomas. 
Although Bell is not endors­ing current president Soler, he spoke highly of her leader­ship and of their time in office together. 
“First and foremost, Catherine is one of my best friends, and I want that to be perfectly clear because it is one of the things that made it easier for me to decide not to run next year. I knew our friendship would last whether we were in student govern­ment or not,” Bell said. “When it came to deciding whether to make an endorse­ment or not, I started to think what is the purpose behind making an endorsement. I think the benefit of it is you get to see what people think is important about a certain candidate or ticket, but I think some of that is lost if I make one blanket statement endorsement.” 

Bell also spoke of the talent in each of the tickets in this year’s election. 
“Pat [McCormick] has done great things for social con­cerns this year. He and Brett [Rocheleau] are pursing things they are passionate about and that will definitely impact the student body,” Bell said, “Ricky [Bevington] is one of the unsung heroes of student government. This year he really revamped the freshman experience of stu­dent government through 
F.U.E.L. (First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership program). Although I haven’t worked a lot with James [Ward] it sounds like they have some great platform ideas as well. While I don’t personally know the Zahm ticket, they are pretty good-looking so at least the girls on campus would be pleased.” 
Bell said students should decide where their votes go based on personal opinions. 
“I believe when you decide to vote it shouldn’t be about what anyone else wants,” Bell said, “It should be about what you want out of your time at Notre Dame and what you want Notre Dame to become while you’re here.” 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 


Sled 
continued from page 1 
leadership retreat in August. 
“All of us got to talking about doing sled races across South Quad like the Iditarod,” Eastman said. “Obviously, we couldn’t use dogs, so we settled for Domers.” 
The two pairs of brother-sis­ter dorms began planning the details of the event after winter break. After receiving funding from Hall President’s Council, the presidents realized their respective halls would not need to cover any additional costs of the event, McGovern said. 
“There was no reason for us to make a profit from the event, so we thought we should give the proceeds from the event to a cause that means a lot to Notre Dame,” McGovern said. 
After Schwartze became aware that Meg Swaback, a high school friend of Declan Sullivan, made 1,500 bracelets in memory of Sullivan, he con­tacted Swaback offering to help distribute the bracelets in exchange for donations at Notre Dame. Schwartze said the bracelets, engraved with “Celebrate Life — DDS 10.27.10,” gave him the idea of having the I-Domer-Rod sup­port Sullivan’s memory as well. 
Schwartze presented his idea to the group, who unanimously decided to give all proceeds to the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund for its strong connection to both the Notre Dame and Fisher Hall commu­nities, Eastman said. 
“Brian [Schwartze], being a fellow Fisher resident and friend of Declan’s, asked how we would feel about donating to Declan’s memorial fund,” Eastman said. “We were all completely for it.” 
Each sled team’s $10 entry fee and additional donations will go to the fund. 
Although the event was a new experience for students, both Eastman and McGovern agreed that it was a definite success that attracted several last-minute sled teams, and they look forward to next year’s edition of the I-Domer-Rod. 
“Our hope for next year is that more people participate because it ended up being a really fun event,” McGovern said. “We were thrilled that so many people came out and enjoyed it.” 
Although her team did not win the women’s bracket, Cavanaugh senior Melissa Truitt enjoyed spending time with her friends. 
“The falling snow definitely added to the atmosphere, and it’s good to see everyone having fun on a Friday in support of a good cause,” Truitt said. 
Pangborn sophomore Kat Wilson also valued the friendly bonding the event facilitated. 
“Despite our team’s loss, I can definitely see the value in this event in the quality time I’ve spent with friends and the hot chocolate that rivaled that of Starbucks,” Wilson said. 
Brynne Miller, a sophomore member of Pangborn’s Team Cool Runnings, summed up her thoughts on her team’s win and the I-Domer-Rod as a whole. 
“Cuba Gooding, Jr. would love this,” she said. 

Contact Kirsten Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 14, 2011 



Students plunge into lakes 
some.” cookies and brownies for everybody 
By REGINA WOOD 

Upon arriving at the plunge, stu-to enjoy. The committee also added 
News Writer 

dents signed up and were entered live music half way through the into a raffle for gift cards for restau-event and made the event a dorm “I have a new-found empathy for rants on Eddy’s Street Commons competition. 
polar bears,” freshman Brendan and for gifts from the Hammes “The worst part was getting out Coyne said after participating in the Notre Dame Bookstore. They also of the water,” freshman Deanna second annual Badin-Dillon Polar gave donations to the Hope Kolberg said. Bear Plunge Saturday in St. Initiative, Margaret Bellon, Badin One of the goals of the event coor­Joseph’s Lake. Hall vice president, said. dinators was greater publicity, 
Coyne was one of the nearly 200 “The Hope Initiative inspires hope Bellon said. participants jumping into the frigid through benefiting education for Many students said they enjoyed waters in 34-degree weather, children in Nepal,” Bellon said. the event. according to Lauren Baldwin, Howard Hall fellow and professor “This is something I’ve been Badin Hall president. Ann-Marie Conrado runs the chari-wanting to do for a long time,” 
“It was the most refreshing expe-ty, Baldwin said. This year, the sophomore Mike O’Brien said. “I rience of my life,” freshman Andy plunge raised more than $900. wish it could have lasted longer. As McAsey, who was part of the first Baldwin said she and Bellon have soon as we were in, we were out. I group to enter the water, said. been working on the event with D.J. could have been in there for 10 
A total of eight heats of 21 people Barry, Dillon Hall president, and P.J. minutes.” ran into the ice-cold water on Flynn, Dillon Hall vice president, “It was the most exhilarating Saturday, starting at 2 p.m., since October. They set up a Polar moment of my life thus far,” fresh-Baldwin said. Bear Plunge committee of Badin man Andrew Aaronian said. 
“It felt like pins and needles on girls after winter break to make this Other students did the plunge for my feet but otherwise I’m fine,” jun-event as successful as possible. different reasons. ior Ronnie Kadykowski said. Baldwin said the committee set “I did it because it is on my ND 
“It was so cold that you can’t even up a gathering spot by two heaters bucket list,” senior Sean Kickham feel it,” freshman Sarah Eide said. and provided towels for partici-said. “Got to get it done before I “You just get numb. It was awe-pants. They had hot chocolate, graduate in May.” 
Freshman Christine Allen and her friends dressed up for the event. Allen, dressed as a football player, said, “I did the plunge because I wanted to prove I’m not a wimpy Californian.” 
“The Polar Bear Plunge shows how much people at Notre Dame care about contributing to impor­tant causes and I am glad to be a part of it,” Baldwin said. 


Contact Regina Woods at rwood6@nd.edu 
greatest campaign challenge 

project that initially sparked cerns resident had,” Luecke 
was finding the time to reach 

fears in some about Notre said. 


Election 
Mayor
out to everyone, Ward said. 

Dame expansion into the After 15 years, Luecke said 
continued from page 1 Pat McCormick and Brett 

continued from page 1 Northeast Neighborhood. he is ready to step down from 
Rocheleau also visited every 

“There were certainly some his role. 
candidate that is found distrib-dorm on campus, and 

With a change of city leader-tensions at times, and worries “I couldn’t really commit the 
uting the link would have an McCormick said the door-to­

ship coming, the University will by some neighbors that the energy to it for another four 
allegation brought against door conversations were the 

be closely watching coming University is expanding and years,” Luecke said. “As much 
them.” heart of his campaign. 

elections, said Tim Sexton, going to eat up neighborhood,” as I love the job, it’s a draining 
Notre Dame’s assistant vice Luecke said. job.” 
Web campaigns played a “Though we have used elec­
critical role for all of the can-tronic communications like e-

president for Public Affairs. After conversations among He hasn’t yet decided what to 
didates. They assembled web-mail contacts, text messaging 

“The primary election, sched-city officials, the University and do after he finishes his last 
sites, created Facebook fan and Facebook, our belief was 

uled for May 3, will be very neighborhood residents about term as mayor of South Bend, 
pages, filmed YouTube videos that these forms of communi­

interesting,” said Sexton, who the scope of the Commons, the but without a campaign to split 
acts as the University’s point city and University moved for-his focus, he hopes to spend 
and even Tweeted. cations were only means to 
Presidential candidate the ultimate goal: having the 

person for communication with ward on developing the center the rest of his time finishing 
Catherine Soler and vice presi-chance to talk with students 

the city. of restaurants, retail and several initiatives and prepar-
Several joint ventures, such apartment complexes, which ing the office for new leader­
dential candidate Emily about the future of our school 

as work with the Robinson opened in 2009. ship. 
LeStrange created a face to face, one person at a 
Facebook fan page, a time,” McCormick said. 

Community Learning Center, The University also partnered “It’s exciting, but a little anxi-
Facebook voting event, a McCormick said the ticket’s 

Innovation Park and the with the city, the South Bend ety producing,” Luecke said. 
Twitter account and a website. website and Facebook event 

Northeast Neighborhood Clinic, Memorial Hospital of Governing a city that houses 
“It is always hard to get all pages were successful tools for 

Revitalization Organization, South Bend and Saint Joseph’s a major university was educa­
of your ideas across through the campaign as well. 

give the University reason to Regional Medical Center in the tional, he said. 
posters,” Soler said. “So we “One publicly available indi­

quickly begin a relationship Northeast Neighborhood “There are challenges associ­
hoped that by emphasizing cator of the interactive nature 

with the incoming mayor, Revitalization Organization ated with having strong univer-
Sexton said. (NNRO) to further develop the sity presence,” he said, “like 
our slogan, ‘Passion and of our campaign though is that 
Perspective’ as well as our our event page has the most 

“There will be a learning Northeast Neighborhood, just the town gown relationships, 
website and Facebook and comments of any current can-

curve, regardless of who is south of Notre Dame’s campus. developing partnerships, find-
elected mayor, there are simply The NNRO works to rehabili-ing common ground as univer-
Twitter logos that students didate event page online,” he 
would find various ways to said. 

too many exciting projects and tate homes in the neighbor-sity and a community. 
read more about what we Campaigning is prohibited in 

initiatives occurring for a per-hood. Many house Notre Dame “But I think we did a great 
son to wrap their hands around faculty, and about 30 percent job of finding a shared future 
offer students.” the any of the Student Union 
Candidates Ricky Bevington offices or any venues occupied 

everything,” he said. are subsidized for moderate-vision.” 
and Olivia Colangelo also cre-by the student union, Perez 

Luecke said research facili-income families, Luecke said. 
ated a Facebook page and an said, and all areas of 

ties Innovation Park and “I think that worked well in Contact Madeline Buckley at 
Ignition Park stand out as one terms of satisfying some con-mbuckley@nd.edu 
event to invite the student LaFortune Student Center are 
of the most prominent projects 
body to vote on Monday. off-limits for campaigns except 
“We might not have had the pre-approved areas of the 
he has tackled as mayor. 
fanciest posters or the fanciest basement and first floor. 
The University and the city 
website,” he said. “But we Ward and Eaton received a 
first started collaborating in 
thought it was more about the violation and sanction for 
2004 on the research parks to 
ideas on the website than the posting a campaign poster in 
bring business to the local 
economy. Innovation Park is 
site itself.” non-bulletin space in the 
funded by multiple sources, 
The team filmed campaign LaFortune Starbucks, Perez 
including federal, state and 
videos and posted them on said. The sanction against 
local governments, the 
their YouTube channel. The their ticket required Ward and 
University and private donors. 
channel received over 200 Eaton to remove their posters 
The Park, which opened in 
views, Bevington said. from LaFortune for 24 hours. 
Presidential candidate Kevin Noonan and Matt 
the fall of 2009, offers office 
James Ward said he and run-Thomas, candidates on the 
and lab space for research ven­
ning mate Heather Eaton used perennial Zahm ticket for 
tures and start-up companies. 
Facebook as a starting point to president and vice president, 
Sexton said it is currently 
about 60 to 65 percent occu­
spread their names and catch did not campaign as widely as 
students’ interest, but talking the other tickets. They said 
pied with 30 tenants. 
Companies that develop suc­
one-on-one was the focus of they faced their biggest chal­
cessfully in Innovation Park 
their campaign. lenge in dealing with the cam­
“We went with more of a paign rules as well. 
can move to Ignition Park, the 
grassroots strategy to engage “Really our biggest chal­
city’s partner research facility. 
people in actual conversation lenge was toeing the line 
Luecke recently announced 
that a company based in 
and try to help them realize between the fact that our cam-
we are in this for the stu-paign is a mockery of the 
Innovation Park will graduate 
to Ignition Park. 
dents,” Ward said. process and actually getting 
The team used a Facebook our campaign materials 
“We know that we won’t cap-
ad in addition to their other approved by the Judicial 
ture every company that suc­
ceeds and grows from 
campaign methods. Council, for whom we have the 
Innovation Park, but if we get a
“We had to make sure noth-highest respect and in no way 
few, that’s great,” Luecke said. 
ing we did on Facebook could think that their time is wasted 
be skewed as trying to solicit in their decisions to crack 
“It is certainly our goal to cap­
ture as many companies as 
endorsements,” he said. down in the election process,” 
The ticket wanted to make Noonan said. 
possible.” 
connections in the dorms 
Luecke also notably worked 
through their door-to-door Contact Megan Doyle 
with the University on building 
campaigns and found the mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Eddy Street Commons — a 


Monday, February 14, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

hopes to pursue the issue of here worthwhile by inspiring placing printers in each them to get involved. We dorm, turning the Student want each student to be an Center lounge into a student-active presence on campus.” friendly area with booths and Brink and Busam are run-tables for studying and ning against two other tickets reclaiming the seating lost in — Casie Palmer and Maureen the Cyber Café Parsons, as and C-Store well as Nicole merger. “We care about each Gans and 
In addition, individual student Jacqualyn she plans to Zupancic. 
and we want to make
continue the Palmer and SGA’s renova -their time here Parsons said tion of the Le worthwhile by they hope to Mans Hall base-serve the needs 
inspiring them to get
ment. of students. 
Brink says involved. We want “We hope to 
she and Busam each continue to 
will place a work with vari­
student to be an 
greater empha-ous offices on sis on helping active presence on campus to clubs by pro -campus.” accommodate moting spon -these needs. sorships and Specifically, we 
Emma Brink
raising aware-hope to work 
candidate
ness of their with the dining “We were really excited ting input from the student events on cam-student body president hall staff, as with the outcome of our body.” pus. well as IT to 
SMC 

Belles Bash and hope to Emma Brink and Liz Busam “Liz and I address issues expand on that. We also had are running for student body love Saint such as hours 
continued from page 1 

a great success with president and vice president, Mary’s and we are committed of operation and technology a few major events Bellakazam, and hope to con-respectively. As part of their to making it the best possible in the dorms,” Palmer said. 
every semester to one every month. tinue that tradition,” campaign, Brink said she environment for students,” “We also hope to create a Courtney hopes to continue Courtney said. “We hope to wants to focus on the stu-Brink said. “We care about more welcoming, homey envi­have the biggest Tostal SMC dents’ wants and needs. each individual student and ronment here on campus 
with these events, and plans has ever seen, and keep get-As part of her goals, she we want to make their time through various events and to create new campus events. 


school-wide programming.” 
Gans and Zupancic said they hope to re -establish Saint Mary’s pride. If elected, they plan to initiate Saint Mary’s pep rallies for sport­ing events, and they hope to strengthen the bonds between faculty, staff and students. 
They also hope to increase 
the presence of Saint Mary’s 
in the community. 
“This semester has been a great start to get involved with alumnae around the area and supporting them,” Gans said. “We would like to have [the] opportunity to bring the community to cam­pus, especially local school programs. 
“We would like to start an after-school program that is 
on Saint Mary’s campus, where the girls get to mentor [young area] students. Hopefully having it on cam­pus will be a way to get more girls involved, as well as a chance to share Saint Mary’s with the young community of South Bend.” 
Lastly, Kelly Reidenbach and Guadalupe Quintana are seeking presidency and vice presidency of SDB. Reidenbach is the current vice president of SDB and Quintana is the treasurer. 
Both hope to continue pro­moting the fundamental goals 
of SDB. More specifically, Reidenbach hopes to spread truth about diversity. 
“My personal hopes are to spread awareness to the Saint Mary’s community that diversity is not a synonym for minority,” she said. “It is my personal belief that each and every one of us is diverse. We all come from various back­grounds, and we all have hopes and dreams. 
“I hope to begin changing the image that many students and faculty have of the stu­dent diversity board which is that this board is open to an supports every single individ­ual, not just members of groups considered minority or under represented.” 
Campaigning to the student body will begin next Sunday, Feb. 20, and will run until the evening of Feb. 23. Elections will be held Feb. 24. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chous@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, February 14, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

School of sharks 
Chances are, you know who I am, although I probably don’t know you. I am not boasting when I state this fact 
— this has nothing to do with me being more important than you. The simple fact of the matter is, if you know me it isn’t because I am a Television major or I live on Mod Quad, but because I am the boy with the shark backpack. 
In a sea of Columbias and 

Sam Stryker 
Jansports and Kiplings, my shark backpack is 
Assistant 
at the top of the 
News Editor 
food chain. It has little fish for zip­pers, and instead of placing books in my backpack my shark literally swal­lows my literature. If I need to carry a water bottle with me, I just stick it in my sharky’s gills. Two menacing eyes glisten on the sides, and two rows of sharp pearly whites line the zippers. 
It goes without saying, but I have a killer backpack. 
In addition to my shark backpack, I am currently wearing my shark box­ers. They also serve as my lucky box­ers. I’m resting my head on my shark pillow, and even though my breath tastes like pizza, I can freshen it up with one of my Great White mints. 
I really, really love sharks. 
But beyond my mere love of sharks is that people know I love sharks. In the immortal words of Lady Gaga, I was born this way — why should I hide my love for sharks? 
So you know me. I’m the boy with the shark backpack. But do I know you? That’s the challenge college stu­dents at a university as competitive as Notre Dame are tasked with — stand­ing out while at the same time fitting in. All of us are here to succeed, and succeeding is all about standing out, staying ahead of the crowd. 
Yet at the same time, we are all image conscious and don’t want to seem too “out there” or peculiar. Most students are focused on standing out with their actions while fitting in with their appearance. While not looking like a total whack-job is commendable, one can still look fierce and profession­al at the same time. 
To put it in culinary terms (aside from sharks, I really like food), there is nothing wrong with being vanilla. But why not put some whipped cream on your ice cream? Or even like some people do in the dining hall, some cereal? 
College is a time where you can get away with a lot of crazy stuff, and I am not merely referring to whatever you did this weekend. This is when you can wear whatever you want and smell however you like! Why not take advan­tage of this incredible opportunity? 
This is not some cliché Disney-esque message. I simply am trying to tell you, to truly stand out you cannot just act better than everyone and work harder than your peers. You also have to dress the part. In the real world, that means wearing a suit and combing your hair. Right now, it’s something like carrying your books in a shark backpack and wearing your shark box­ers. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

Baz Luhrmann’s rendition of Moulin Rouge includes a short Bohemian, say­ing his only lines in the play within the movie: “The greatest thing you will ever learn is just to love, and be loved in return.” You may not agree that love is the greatest thing you can ever learn, but I’ll argue that it is in the top five. The beauty of today, Valentine’s Day, is not embod­ied in the sweet kisses, the Alex Coccia exchange of chocolates, the Shard of purchasing of Glass flowers, the writ­ing of cheesy poet­ry or the watching of romantic come­dies. What’s wonderful about Valentine’s Day is that it is an in-your­face day that recognizes the beauty of love. Valentine’s Day is an opportunity for outward expressions of affection, the more serious of which we call love. Many students on Notre Dame campus will go out to dinner with their boyfriends or girlfriends, watch a movie with their best friends or even find a date through letters to The Observer. 

It will not be uncommon to see a boy and a girl walking and holding hands on South Quad on their way to catch a cab at Main circle. What will be uncommon to see is two guys holding hands or two girls holding hands on their way to catch a cab at main circle. Now ask yourself, “What would I think if I saw two guys holding hands?” “Would I notice for some reason?” “If so, why?” Chances are that you would not ask 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“What makes something special isnot just what you have to gain, butwhat you feel there is to lose.” 
Andre Agassi 
U.S. tennis player 

Be for love 
yourself the same questions about a boy and girl holding hands — that you would not think twice about what you saw. This is an example of straight priv­ilege on Notre Dame’s campus. Another example is in dorm and freshman orien­tation activities, the focus of which is building relationships with members of the opposite sex. Valentine’s Day can act as an opportune time for everyone 
— students, faculty and the administra­tion at Notre Dame — to re-evaluate the amount of love on campus for Gay, Lesbian, Bisuexual, Transgender and Questioning (GLBTQ) students. 
Gay students on campus hope for a more inclusive student body, but what they receive is the embodiment of straight privilege. This privilege is per­petuated because of the University’s refusals to recognize a gay-straight alliance as an official club and to include “sexual orientation” in the legally binding, protective nondiscrimi­nation clause. Thousands of straight and gay students and alumni support these measures — it is time for the administration to do so as well. The Spirit of Inclusion, written in 1997 as an attempted compromise for GLBTQ stu­dents on campus, says a lot of things about the University’s approach towards GLBTQ students: “We prize the uniqueness of all persons. ... [W]e wel­come all people. ... [W]e value gay and lesbian members of this community.” The Spirit of Inclusion does not say, however, “We love all students regard­less of sexual orientation.” The good news is that the University has the opportunity to outwardly show the greatest form of love for its GLBTQ stu­dents, faculty and staff, by inserting “sexual orientation” into the nondis-crimination clause and by granting a gay-straight alliance official club status. This legal protection from discrimina­tion of any kind is truly an act of love, not simply inclusion. By the University taking the lead in making Notre Dame a more inclusive community, the atmos­phere on campus will be soon to follow. It begins with the University and it begins with the students. These loving steps by the administration are so important for gay and lesbian students on campus — open and closeted. For the openly gay students, these acts show the University’s support for their students as human beings. For closeted students, these acts may make it easier for them to open up in an accepting environment about being gay. 

At the Honors Convocation last week, Dean Hugh Page challenged the stu­dents to let love make us an outward facing community. We must be open and outward with respect to compas­sion and love shown for others — a love that Jesus would show, a love that is absolutely Christian — “By this all men will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another” (John 13:35). 
Let this Valentine’s Day begin a new year for love at Notre Dame — love from one student to another, love from the administration to its students. 
This Valentine’s Day, be for love — gay, straight, friend to friend. Be for love: That’s the greatest thing you’ll ever learn. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Never do today what you can putoff till tomorrow. Delay may giveclearer light as to what is bestto be done.” 
Aaron Burr 
U.S. politician 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Monday, February 14, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Leprechaun Legion of doom 
Our hoops team is straight ballin’. Sadly, if you take a step back during a game in the JACC you will notice that our arena is usually embar­rassingly empty for a team that is ranked No. 7 nationally. Most students found it too hard to keep the faith this season, refusing to buy sea­son tickets. 
There is a simple solution: 
1. 
Make sure every ticket already bought is being used for every game. Many who bought the entire booklet sit out some of the games, and their tickets go to waste. Unlike football stubs, individual basketball tickets are trans­ferrable to other students. If you don’t feel like going to a game, give your ticket to someone who does. If you want to go but don’t have a ticket, ask around campus and odds are you will find one floating around somewhere. 

2. 
Those of us who do attend must make up for our comrades’ absence. This includes not only the student section, but the entire crowd inside the JACC. For every empty seat you see, you need to be that much louder. Every time the entire crowd gets on their feet, our team can’t help but go on a scoring run or buckle 



down for a great defensive stand. They feed off our energy, and there’s nothing better than watching the direct impact our collective ener­gy can have on a game. 
3. For our final home game, a critical in-con­ference contest against Villa-no-fun, the pow­ers that be need to find their inner generosity and open up the doors for all students to attend free of charge. As the world’s preeminent Catholic university, we should be able to find it within ourselves to forgive their lack of loyalty by welcoming back our prodigal sons and daughters to return for one last send-off wor­thy of a team currently ranked No. 7. Not only could doing so seal the deal on an undefeated season at home, but it could represent a tremendous showing of unity that gives the team something to remember as they head off to battle in the Big East Tournament and beyond. 
Daniel Collins 
Law Student off campus Feb. 12 
UWIRE 



Oscars must drop uniformity 
When marginalized people lament the lack of diver­sity on the big screen, a common, though patronizing, retort is they need not seek validation from the enter­tainment industry. Hollywood is about as quintessen­tially American as football. It is a staple of our culture and if people of color are not represented, they might as well Eva Mckend not exist. 
Although some might have 
The Phoenix 
been hopeful after the Academy Awards last year when Mo’Nique took home the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her role in “Precious” and Kathryn Bigelow became the first woman to win Best Director for the “The Hurt Locker,” others were right­fully trepidatious. 
While it was exciting to see Mo’Nique recognized, one must wonder why it took such a dark role for her to earn the accolade. 
The problem with the Hollywood machine is that it continues to typecast people of color. This is evident in the midseason replacement “Harry’s Law” by the wildly popular David E. Kelley. 
While the show has endearing qualities and witty writing, the supporting characters of color reify nega­tive stereotypes of drug addiction, poverty and help­lessness. 
Kelley is a liberal and one of the best writers and producers in television. But even if he, at times, miss­es the sociocultural mark, the implications for less prudent storytellers are harrowing. I only wonder if the gag about “a black man falling from the roof” would have made it into the script had there been more voices of color at the table. 
In an interview with “Complex” magazine, Michael 
B. Jordan (“The Wire,” “Friday Night Lights”), by far the most promising star of my generation, reflected on the challenges of being a young black actor in a white-dominated industry. “There are still a lot of white writers writing for black people, and there’s always going to be a lot of stuff lost in translation,” he said. The 23-year-old acknowledged he felt a responsibility to speak out against mischaracterizations especially in a business that relegates black talent to a “crab-in-a­barrel mentality.” 
In response to the heavy criticism The Academy will receive throughout this award season for what many are deeming “the whitest Oscars in a decade,” we will hear the age-old excuse that there was merely not enough talent of color to chose from. Filmmaker Ava DuVernay, who was cited in several recent articles about the lack of diversity, recently formed the African-American Film Festival Releasing Movement, a campaign to widen the distribution of black films. Her efforts and her mission are compulsory in a field that treats people of color as if they are invisible. However, one must wonder how long African Americans will have to rely on their own mediums. In a society where all races coexist, black people should not be limited to black media. 

Alicia Niwagaba ’11 argues that people of color don’t generally receive roles that would garner them critical praise. She cites her frustration with films like “The Social Network” (nominated for eight Academy Awards) that cast a white actor to play an Indian man. “I have a hard time believing there was not one Indian actor who fit that role. It was a small part but it just exemplifies what is wrong with casting and the film industry.” Ultimately, Niwagaba maintains it is a num­bers game. “Studios don’t think audiences want to see films with minorities or strong women, so films about white people (especially men) are disproportionately funded and supported.” 
The few times that people of color were celebrated in the past were what DuVernay described as anom­alies.“People of color do not receive awards unless we are degrading ourselves and playing downtrodden characters,” Niwagaba said. “We are always repre­sented as the other, something to be pitied, never tri­umphant and never strong. It just shows you what kind of narrative Hollywood wants to maintain.” 
Tanya Hamilton, a black Philadelphia director who showed her exemplary film “Night Catches Us” on Tuesday, said more black talent need the opportunity to “fill in the empty center, melding art and com­merce.” There are few films with strong artistic vision that can also be profitable. More filmmakers of color should be given the chance to fill that void. 
Some might ask why we should care about what is going on in the lavish likes of Hollyweird at a time when many Americans are fighting to keep their jobs. As Marie Wilson, President of the White House Project, said in the trailer for “Miss Representation,” a new documentary about the portrayal of women in the media, “You can’t be what you can’t see.” The media is the most powerful tool of dissemination in the world and America dominates the message. 
It is not unusual to travel to another country and find an entire evening line up of programming of American shows, or travel to a local theater and find only American films. The diversity that we represent in America will be the diversity illustrated around the world. If The Academy continues to ostracize and marginalize certain voices, they will make themselves an irrelevant program. 
We don’t have to look any further than the Miss America pageant to see that viewers can easily out­grow award ceremonies if they lose touch with reality. 
However, industry power players are equally responsible. People of color and women need a plat­form within mainstream spaces to showcase their array of talent and when they do so they should be similarly celebrated for their work. 
This article first appeared in the Feb. 3 edition of The Phoenix, the daily publication serving Swarthmore College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

An ode to Jose (Cuervo), Jack (Daniels) and James(on) 
We all know the Feast of St. Valentine is near And confessions of love will be what you hear In hallways and classrooms, in texts and on Skype But for those who are single, it may seem over-hyped 
Some resort to sad movies that bring them to tears Others write articles in the Viewpoint, like Pierce But for single 21-year-olds, I think I can say Valentine’s is a reason to drink the day away 
While couples sit on the same side of tables at South I’ll be at the bar, getting tipsy when I go out While duos celebrate the most romantic day of the year I’ll forego that champagne for a nice can of beer 
I won’t drink to excess … just socially sip Since on Tuesday morning, I have classes I can’t skip I will even wait until after my Monday tap class is through Before I crack open my first can of brew 
I’ll do dinner at Kildare’s, where there is a special on wings And maybe some songs at 23 I will sing Whatever I do, I will be having some fun Even though I don’t have a “special someone” 
But drinking alone is bad … a taboo, if I may So this Viewpoint poem is an invitation to say If you aren’t dating someone and don’t want to study Come out Monday night, and be my drinking buddy 
Hannah Ha 
junior off campus Feb. 13 


Gentlemen of Notre Dame 
Dear Men, 

I would like to thank you for proving that chivalry is not dead. After flying into hysterics when I left my cell phone on my tray in South Dining Hall on Friday, sev­eral of you leapt into action to save me. As I am a strong, independent woman, I managed to save myself (eventually), but I sincerely appreciated the chivalrous instinct to help a neurotic, flailing person in need. And, as an added bonus, you looked really good doing it. That never hurts. 
Hannah Greggs 
sophomore Ryan Hall Feb. 13 


The Observer 




Scene
page 8 Monday, February 14, 2011 

By MARIELLE HAMPE 
Scene Writer 
Carter G. Woodson, known as the “Father of Black History,” started “Negro Week ” in 1926 in an attempt to educate the American people about the culture and achievements of African ­Americans. 85 years later, Woodson ’s vision endures as Americans around the nation pause to remember the history of African-Americans during Black History Month every February. 
Clubs and organizations associ­ated with the University of Notre Dame host a variety of events annually to commemorate Black History Month. Some previous events have included talk series, art exhibits, musical performances and coffee house events. 
Notre Dame ’s First Year of Studies celebrates Black History Month on Tuesday, February 15 at Reckers with the performance of various freshmen as Lectio Live! celebrates Black History Month. 
Lectio Live! brings first -year performers together for a night of entertainment. This event was coordinated by first year advisors Ricky Ramon and Sean Wernert. Admission is free and all faculty members and students are encour­aged to attend. The Lectio Live! series provides a welcoming and relaxed atmosphere for all per­formers and audience members. 

All performers were asked to perform pieces that celebrate African -American history. In addition to eight student perform­ers, Ricky Ramon will be reading poetry, and Dean Hugh Page of the First Year of Studies will sing. 
“President John Jenkins has clearly stated on numerous occa­sions the importance of celebrat­ing Notre Dame 's diversity, ” Ramon said. “There are many ven­ues where we as faculty can show our students that we, too, believe in Fr. Jenkins' message to cele­brate diversity. The First Year of Studies wholeheartedly believes that we need to expose our First Year students the importance of celebrating each other's unique­ness. Lectio Live! gives our First Year students the platform to cele­brate that uniqueness while meet­ing Fr. Jenkins' mission to cele­brate the diversity Notre Dame has to offer. Celebrating Black History month is just one way of doing that.” 
Freshmen Noah Rangel and Amanda Ly are two of the per ­formers on Tuesday night. Rangel said he has been singing since he was four and has been playing guitar for almost two years. He will be playing three songs on Tuesday night — “Walk Away” by Ben Harper and Jack Johnson’s “No Other Way, ” as well as an original piece. 
“Black history month is a cele­bration of the achievements of black individuals and groups that have bettered our nation,” Rangel said. “I am playing in Lectio Live! for mostly the performance expe­rience, but in honor of Black History Month, I am performing a song by Ben Harper, a black musi­cian who has influenced my musi­cal style.” 
Ly will also sing and play guitar. Ly said she started writing songs and singing when she was nearly 17 years old and will be perform­ing an original composition with acoustic guitar and vocal called “Recycled.” 
“I enjoy performing, and Black History Month is a commendable 
occasion. Black History Month means a celebration of both the progress and rich heritage of the African American race,” said Ly. 
Rangel and Ly will be joined by 
other first -year students at the Lectio Live! event. 
“The audience can expect to be blown away and possibly see some serenading, ” Ly said. “Live! is going to be epic — tell your friends.” 

On campus 
What: Lectio Live! Celebrates Black History MonthWhere: Reckers When: Tuesday, Feb. 15, 8:30 ­
10:30 pmHow much: free Learn More: swernert@nd.edu 
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 

Scene Around the World 


Going abroad? Chronicle your travels in a photo slideshow or video and send your clip to Scene. We’ll post it on The Observer website and a preview will appear in the Scene section of the print edition. 

Social Media 
Follow Scene on Facebook and Twitter to hear about our latest coverage of campus entertainment and pop culture at large. 
Email Scene Editor Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu for more information, or check out ndsmcobserver.com/scene to see other student’s videos. 


SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 


The Observer 




Scene
Monday, February 14, 2011 page 9 


MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Spotted: Paulina Rullan and Kike Gorbea 
Where: South Quad 


Paulina and Kike are enjoying this week’s amazing weather with style! She made a great choice by pairing up her black ballerina flats and tank top with a neon vest. She looks both chic and fun. His choice of sneakers, jeans and jacket also looks comfortable and cool. Their trendy outfits make them the perfect Valentine’s Day fashion couple! 


School weighs on you at this Then, all of a sudden, an all-too time of year, and can make you confident hand shoots out of the long for the comfort of home. To masses. That kid is called on, and remedy the malaise of the late proceeds to say THE EXACT winter, this SAME THING YOU JUST SAID. week we will 
The leech of the classroom has make a down-
sucked away your glory, since home favorite, 
everyone knows that the most the grilled 
recent comment is the more bril­cheese sand­
liant one. wich. Although, 
The Suck-Up: At Notre Dame, toss your 
participation counts for a lot. notions of won­
10% is the standard for classes derbread and 
such as seminars. Thus, everyone Kraft singles knows that it isn’t how good our out the win-arguments are or how frequently dow, because you speak, only how much the we are going teacher likes what you are say-to upgrade ing. This weasely classmate fig-the recipe a ures that by waiting for the pro-bit. fessor to say something, then 
Grilled Cheese agreeing and repeating the idea 
1) Begin with two slices of sour-in slightly different words, will dough bread, buttering one side get them a lot of brownie points. of each What makes this person so tough 
2) Spread the opposite sides to handle is that their strategy from the butter with a thin layer almost always works. of mayonnaise The Glenn Beck: This charac­
3) Add a layer of two slices of ter spends the majority of the provolone cheese class trying to compare the 
4) Next, layer pretzels on top of opposing argument to something the provolone, just enough to Adolf Hitler and the Nazis would cover the sandwich with no over-do. The sensationalism, quick lapping of pretzels jumps to being off topic and Nazi 
5) Top the pretzels with a layer fetish this person demonstrated of two slices of cheddar cheese makes them unbearable. 
6) Add two slices of tomato on The Last-Minute Man: It is top of the cheddar 11:29 and class gets out in one 
7) Finish the sandwich with 2 minute. Wrapping up the day’s slices of Swiss cheese discussion, the professor asks if 
8) Place the second slice of anyone has any final remarks or bread on top, making sure that last questions, a request barely the buttered sides face out and audible over the rustling papers the mayo sides face in and zipping backpacks. Then, in 
9) Heat on a panini press or the corner, one student wakes up conveyor belt toaster, depending from the nap they’ve been taking on location the last hour and realizes that if 
This dish goes particularly well they ask an insightful question, with a bowl of tomato soup, natu-the professor won’t remember rally. that they slept through the whole 
Dinner Discussion: The class. The hand shoots up, the Seminar kid is called on, and the clock 
Nothing drains a student at strikes 11:30. You, meanwhile, Notre Dame like a particularly have to stay put for a precious cruel seminar. Everyone takes seven more minutes while the them, and the small-class, discus-useless question is answered, sion-based style certainly has its cursing the student with every benefits. However, a few key breath. flaws can send the seminar class That Guy: On top of all these into a downward spiral, turning sinister people, there is always one hour and fifteen minutes of one who rises above the rest. your Tuesday and Thursday into That guy. So smug, so callous. a marathon of doodling, trying to He is always the first to arrive, stay awake, clock-watching and and the last to leave, ensuring tuning out classmates. that he gets to chat up the profes-
Speaking of classmates, no sin-sor as much as possible as if he gle factor can destroy the chem-hadn’t talked enough in class. He istry of a seminar like some trou-over-prepares for each class, bling classmates. Here is a selec-bringing in hand-typed notes on tion of the worst: each book, as well as on all the 
The Repeater: You’ve read the outside research he did on the assignment, you have a pretty topic at hand. He combines the good grasp on it, and you have worst of all characteristics, goes the most insightful, thought-pro-above and beyond in every aspect voking comment to make once of the class, and we despise him the class discussion gets going. for it. When the opportunity arises, you strike, and blow the professor The views expressed in this and other students right out of column are those of the author the water. Everyone around you and not necessarily those of The is too ashamed of their own Observer. incompetence in the subject to Contact Nathaniel Lee at even look up form their desks. nlee5@nd.edu 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 14, 2011 
NBA 




Howard, Magic rebound to silence Bryant, Lakers 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Dwight Howard had 31 points and 13 rebounds as the Orlando Magic earned their first victory over a winning team in more than a month, downing the Los Angeles Lakers 89-75 on Sunday. 
Kobe Bryant and Andrew Bynum each had 17 points to lead the Lakers. Lamar Odom added 15 and Pau Gasol 11. 
Jason Richardson chipped in 12 points for the Magic. 
Orlando rebounded from a six-point home loss to New Orleans on Friday and a snapped a string of eight straight losses to teams with winning records. Orlando’s pre­vious win against a team above .500 was Jan. 8 at Dallas. 
The Lakers’ loss snapped a four-game winning streak. They conclude their seven-game road trip with visits to Charlotte on Monday and Cleveland on Wednesday. 
Howard scored his eighth straight point to give the Magic a 71-60 edge with just under 10 minutes to play in the game. 
The Lakers scored five straight, but the Magic quickly responded with six straight points — including a pair of bas­kets by Brandon Bass — to increase their lead to 77-65 at the 7:48 mark. 
Bass, who had missed the pre­vious six games with a sprained left ankle, didn’t start Sunday, but made his first appearance since Jan. 31 with 7:56 left in the first quarter after Ryan Anderson picked up his second foul. 
Howard was fouled on a put back dunk by Gasol with 5:38 left, and his ensuing free-throw made it 84-69. The Lakers closed to within 13 points, but never got any closer. 
Orlando came out of halftime hot from the field and built a 56­47 lead with 6:38 to play in the third. 
Los Angeles used a 9-2 run to trim it to 58-56 with 3:37 left, forcing a Magic timeout. 
But the Magic closed the quar­ter on a 9-4 spurt, capped by a desperation heave, turned alley­oop by Howard at the buzzer. Orlando guard Gilbert Arenas dribbled the ball off his foot in the closing seconds and tossed a wild shot toward the basket. Howard caught it and dunked it just before the horn to give the Magic a 67-60 lead entering the final quarter. 
Orlando took a 45-41 advan­tage into the break, playing one of their most balanced offensive halves in several weeks. 
Richardson, who came into Sunday’s game having connect­ed on just 12 of his previous 34 shots from the field, had a team-high 12 points on 5 of 9 shoot­ing. 
The Lakers stayed close thanks to 13 first-half points by Bryant and 11 from Bynum. 
Bynum was active early underneath and had team-high nine points and six rebounds in the first period to lead Los Angeles. 
The Lakers played Howard straight up defensively when Bynum was in the game and then used a combination of Gasol and Odom when Bynum was on the bench. 
Howard led the Magic with nine points and five rebounds in the opening 12 minutes. He stayed clear of foul trouble until being whistled for his second personal — via a charge on Gasol — with just 17 seconds left in the quarter. 



PGA TOUR 


Woods still confdent despite tumble on Sunday in Dubai 
first three holes. He came back n’t keep the momentum going changes. As I said, I’ve been Hansen of Denmark and James 
Associated Press 

with birdies on Nos. 6 and 11, Sunday in a final round that through this before with my Kingston of South Africa. 
DUBAI, United Arab but followed that with a bogeys exposed the problems with his last two instructors and it will Woods still had a mathemati-Emirates — The flashes of bril-on Nos. 12 and 14, and then a swing. come around.” cal chance as he came onto the liance at the Dubai Desert double bogey on the last. On the second, he drove over The former world No. 1 14th when he was four shots Classic didn’t blind Tiger Woods, who won in Dubai in the green and then chipped believes his performance this back with five holes to go. Woods to the signs that his 2006 and 2008, has now gone past the hole, leading to his week was “a step in the right But Woods hit his drive into new swing remains a work in 16 tournaments and 15 first bogey. On the third, he direction.” the rocks, a second into the progress. months without a victory after yelled at several photogra-“I improved a lot considering bunker and then missed an 
Even so, Woods has no doubt previously winning 14 majors phers for disturbing his swing where I was at Torrey Pines a easy par put to settle for bogey about his future after stum-and 82 tournaments. after his approach went left. couple of weeks ago,” Woods that ended his chances. He fin-bling in the final round “Yeah, very frustrating,” But the No. 3-ranked Woods said of the tournament where ished with three more pars Sunday, shooting a 3-over 75 Woods said of his final round. also showed signs that the he had his worst season-open-and the double bogey on 18. to finish seven shots behind “I got off to such a poor start, I work he has been doing on his ing performance. “Obviously, I A victory here would have winner Alvaro Quiros in a tie was 2 over through three early swing with coach Sean Foley is didn’t finish the way I needed drawn a line in the sand for for 20th. and just couldn’t make it up paying dividends. He hit a 160-to win. ... Put myself there the beleaguered Woods. 
“I feel like I can still win golf from there.” yard approach to within a few after two rounds and just did-This would have been his tournaments,” Woods said. Quiros shot a 68, surviving a feet of the pin for a birdie on n’t get it done.” 12th win outside the PGA Tour “I’m not that old. I’ve still got wild round that included a the sixth and then on the par-3 Woods tied for 44th at Torrey and perhaps his biggest since some years ahead of me.” hole-in-one and a triple bogey 11th hit a tee shot that settled Pines, where he had won the the Thanksgiving night car 
Woods drew cheers to finish at 11-under 277, one a few feet away from the flag last five times he had played accident in 2009 that derailed Thursday when he hit a 3-stroke ahead of Anders for an easy birdie. and had never finished out of his run as the world’s top wood 250 yards to the 18th Hansen of Denmark (70) and Woods said he just needed the top 10. golfer. green for an eagle. But he had James Kingston of South Africa “more work and more prac-On Sunday Woods couldn’t For Woods, it’s back to the trouble finding the fairway for (67). tice.” have missed the cheers as driving range and the hope much of the week in Dubai, his Woods opened with a 71, “As I said when I came in Quiros chipped in for an eagle that he can make his mark at putter ran hot and cold, and moved into contention Friday this week, I hit the ball pure, on No. 2 and then added sev-the upcoming Match Play his once-dangerous short with a 66, and survived windy and that’s the thing,” he said. eral more birdies to move to Championships, starting Feb. game continued to let him conditions Saturday for a 72 “When the wind blows, I have 11 under and five shots ahead 23 at Dove Mountain in down. that put him in position for his to shape shots and hit shots of Woods after six holes. By Arizona. 
Woods started the final first victory since the differently and all my old feels the turn, most fans had started “I know what I can do in the round a shot behind, but Australian Masters in are kind of out the window. shifting their attention to the game and Sean and I are try-opened with two bogeys on his November 2009. He just could-That’s the thing about making duel between Quiros, Anders ing to get there,” Woods said. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
FOR RENT  Perfect location  PERSONAL  For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup- Why did the pig give his girlfriend a  Why did the cannibal break up with  
port@nd.edu  box of candy?  his girlfriend?  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  right next to the new Eddy Street  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
RENTAL:  Commons  It was Valenswine's Day!  She didn't suit his taste!  
Don't go it alone.  ———————————————  
House for rent for  walk to everything  ———————————————  ———————————————  
graduation  Notre Dame has many resources in  If you or someone you care about  
safe family oriented street.  place to assist you.  has been sexually assaulted, we  What would you call a woman who  What did the paper clip say to the  
JPW  can help.  goes out with Casey Morris?  magnet?  
Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net  If you or someone you love needs  
weddings  confidential support or assistance,  For more information, visit Notre  Desperate!  "I find you very attractive."  
for additional info and photos  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  
football, etc.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Monday, February 14, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 



Boilermakers take down Illini in Champaign 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. — For one half Sunday, Purdue’s shooting was brutal. 
Airballs fell silently short. Balls that did find the rim clanked harmlessly off. 
The shooting was so bad — 
28.6 percent — that after one errant miss by JaJuan Johnson, Purdue coach Matt Painter eyed his leading scorer with exasper­ation as Johnson ran back upcourt, the coach’s arms stretched wide and his hands raised as if to say, “What was that?” 
But the No. 14 Boilermakers said their coach made just one calm request after the first half: Come out hard in the second. 
They did, blasting the Illini with 54 second-half points, out-rebounding them 28-9 over that stretch and locking up a come­back 81-70 win. 
“That first half, we shot terri­ble — I was missing layups,” said Johnson, who finished with 24 points, sounding disgusted with himself over the memory. “When you make shots, it looks a lot better.” 
The Illini (16-9, 6-6 Big Ten) led or were tied for all but 1:17 of the first half and went to the locker room up 32-27. But they knew, coach Bruce Weber said, that a storm was coming. 
“We told our guys, ‘When you watch them, there’s always one point in the game, they always turn it up,’” Weber said. “And they turned it up.” 
The result keeps the Boilermakers (20-5, 9-3) two games back and within reach of first-place Ohio State. The Illini, meanwhile, drop back to the middle of the Big Ten pack, and 
— just three days after a big road win at Minnesota — were left pointing fingers over who was to blame. 
“A couple of us play hard and then three other people don’t play hard — it’s not going to work,” said Mike Davis, who fin­ished with 16 points and seven rebounds. 
The Boilermakers started their second-half push with a 10-4 run that gave them just their second lead of the afternoon. And they made it stick. 
E’Twaun Moore, who finished with 20 points, hit a 3-pointer with 16:05 to play that put Purdue up 37-36. 
Mike Davis made a pair of free throws with 12:48 left to cut Purdue’s lead to 45-44. But Terone Johnson hit a 3-pointer 23 seconds later, and Ryne Smith followed that with a layup that made the score 50-44. 
A minute later, with Illinois back to within 50-46, Smith and point guard Lewis Jackson com­bined for what might have been the offensive play of the game, and one that took the life out of the Illini crowd. 
Jackson dribbled across the lane and spotted Smith open near the top of the key. Smith hit a 3-pointer for a 53-46 lead. 
As much as JaJuan Johnson and Moore hurt Illinois in the second half, Weber said, role players like Smith made key shots that stung, while Jackson 
— who finished with 10 points and five assists — cut up Illinois’ defense. 



“It was all dribble penetra­tion,” Weber said when asked what the biggest offensive differ­ence for Purdue was in the sec­ond half. 
No matter how frustrated the coach looked on the sideline, Moore said Painter didn’t lose his temper at halftime. 
“He just said we’ve got to step it up,” Moore said. “Just come out the first five minutes and try to pick up the tempo.” 
After Thursday’s win raised Illinois’ hopes for a strong finish and an NCAA tournament berth, the Illini said they let one slip away Sunday. 
“We got out-toughed — we didn’t play as hard as we should’ve played and could’ve played,” Davis said. 
Weber declined to address Davis’ complaints directly, but didn’t entirely discount them. 
“We’ve got a lot of guys who are offensive-minded players, and when they don’t make a shot or don’t do something, they don’t maybe give quite the effort on the other end,” he said. 
Illinois was led by Brandon Paul’s 23 points. D.J. Richardson finished with 13. Demetri McCamey returned to the start­ing lineup after playing off the bench against Minnesota, but finished with just 4 points, 10.8 below his average. 
Purdue takes on No. 13 Wisconsin at home on Wednesday before hosting Ohio State next Sunday. 
Painter said that, no matter how tempting, he and his team had to forget the Buckeyes for now. 
“If you let guys float talk about a Big Ten championship,” he said, “you’re about to get beat.” 
Xavier 71, Duquesne 63 
Tu Holloway had 20 points and Dante Jackson tied a career-high with 19 as Xavier beat Duquesne on Sunday in a game with first place in the Atlantic 10 Conference on the line. 
Jackson, a senior guard, made 7 of 9 field goals, including four 3-pointers, to help Xavier over­come a slow start by leading scorer Holloway and the fact second-leading scorer Mark Lyons fouled out with 11 ½ min­utes to play. 
The Musketeers (18-6, 9-1), who controlled the final 11 min­utes of the game, have won 10 of 11 and put themselves in good position to win their fifth consec­utive regular-season Atlantic 10 Championship. 
B.J. Monteiro had 17 points for Duquesne (16-7, 8-2), which has lost two consecutive games after a school-record 8-0 start in conference play. 

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 14, 2011 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 



Irish split games in Calif. 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After beating Cal on Friday, the No. 10 Irish headed 30 miles south to Palo Alto to face the No. 13 Stanford Cardinal on Sunday. Sunday’s results were a bit different from Friday’s vic­tory, as Notre Dame (1-1) lost a heartbreaker by a score of 13­12. 
After dismantling the Golden Bears in a 20-6 victory, the Irish ran into a bigger chal­lenge in the first half of Sunday’s clash, as the Cardinal jumped out to an early 4-0 lead. Managing to cut the deficit to 5-3 at halftime, Notre Dame fought back to an 8-7 lead in the second half. 
“I was happy with our in-game adjustments,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said of the changes that allowed her team to respond to the early onslaught. 
However, after a goal from senior captain Shaylyn Blaney put the Irish up 12-11 with 7:24 to play, the Cardinal scored the final two goals of the game against a Notre Dame squad that played mostly shorthanded due to a rash of penalties. Coyne said her squad hurt themselves with their sloppy play. 
“Our decision making wasn’t the best,” she said. “We had opportunities to make plays but we just had a lot of unforced errors. For the most part it wasn’t anything [Stanford] was doing, we just hurt ourselves a lot.” 
A lack of preparation may also have contributed to the loss, as Coyne noted her coach­ing staff’s lack of film on this season’s version of the Cardinal after Stanford hired a new coach in 2010. 
“From a preparation stand­point, we didn’t have much film on them,” Coyne said. “Give them credit though, they had a really good game plan and they stuck to it.” 
Despite losing on the road to a ranked opponent, Coyne still left feeling irked by the loss. 
“It’s the opening weekend on the road, and to play two teams this early is tough,” she said. “I’m definitely disappointed, though. There were a lot of things that annoyed me about this loss.” 
After winning 20-6 just two days earlier and seeing 12 play­ers score goals, including three for the first time in their careers and a career-high four goals and two assists from sophomore midfielder Jenny Granger, fatigue may also have played a role in Sunday’s result. 
“I think we we’re a bit tired,” Coyne said. “We’re in great shape for this time of year, but we kept turning it over and making ourselves play a lot of defense.” 
With nearly a week off before facing No. 2 Northwestern Saturday at home, the Irish hope to get back to their win­ning ways against a more familiar opponent in a rematch of last season’s NCAA first-round matchup. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Former players sue NCAA, EA 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — There was a time when Sam Keller and his teammates couldn’t wait to get their hands on Electronic Arts Inc.’s latest edition of NCAA Football, which included their team and images down to Keller’s distinctive visor he wore while playing quarterback for the University of Nebraska in 2007. 
EA shares undisclosed royalties with the NCAA for use of college stadiums, team names and uni­forms and the players’ images in a game that racks up hundreds of millions of dollars in annual sales. Because they are amateur ath­letes, the players don’t receive any direct benefit from the appear­ances of their nameless images in the game. 
But Keller and an increasing number of players, such as former UCLA basketball star Ed O’Bannon, think they should and have filed at least nine federal lawsuits against the NCAA and EA over the last two years. 
On Tuesday, Keller will be in Pasadena to watch his team of lawyers urge the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to uphold a trial judge’s decision that EA and the NCAA appear to owe the former Cornhusker and — by the exten­sion — thousands of other former players millions of dollars for using their images in the video game. 
“When you are playing, you are kind of naïve to the idea that you are being taken advantage of because you are so caught up in playing college football,” said Keller of his decision to sue. 



Monday, February 14, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 

Jackson. goal of his career 4:02 into the “Right now I’m feeling a little bit third period. 

Jackson 

better about our goaltending than “Everybody’s rooting him on, I did about three weeks ago,” he he’s one of the good members of 
continued from page 16 

said after Saturday’s game. “Mike the team,” Jackson said. “I’m said. “You’re going to play a tough played well [Friday,] and I thought happy for him. He plays a smart opponent in the second round. Steven was good tonight. I don’t game for us back there.” The most important thing to me is have any problem with playing While Notre Dame had been that we’re playing well at the two different guys right now.” struggling recently with its special right time in the season. I thought The second game was a much teams play, the Irish displayed we made some good strides more complete affair for Notre effective power play and penalty tonight.” Dame, as the Irish shook off a kill units Saturday, killing off six 
Notre Dame struggled to put the slow start to earn a wide-open penalties without giving up a goal. less talented Falcons away Friday victory. “In all, I was really happy,” night, taking a 1-0 lead in the first “We started out very similar to Jackson said. “That’s important period on a goal by freshman for-[Friday] and as the game pro-for us. We’ve got to be strong on ward Bryan Rust. Bowling Green gressed we kind of changed and special teams to have any chance tied the game in the middle of the played a little more simply,” soph-of doing well in the playoffs.” second period, and despite a omore right wing Billy Maday The gritty pair of wins put Notre number of shots on goal, the Irish said. “I think we started to get our Dame in prime position for an could not break through until late scoring chances then. It kind of extended playoff run and demon-in the game when freshman cen-opened up a little bit.” strated a consistency that the Irish ter Anders Lee beat Falcon goal-Maday led the Irish with two have just now begun to find. With tender Andrew Hammond with a goals, the second of which came four difficult games remaining wrist shot from just inside the on a breakaway as he corralled a against Ferris State and Western blue line. Despite the struggles, clear coming out of the penalty Michigan before the playoffs, that sophomore goaltender Mike box as his two-minute penalty for consistency will be crucial as the Johnson was happy with the fact high sticking expired. season draws to a close. that his team earned a gritty win. “[Senior defenseman] Joe Lavin “It’s about guys just being pre­
“We really showed some guts made a great clear on the penalty pared to play every night — you plays nearly 40 minutes per 
tonight,” he said. “We won ugly kill and I perfectly timed it as I get to the playoffs, you don’t, game but was only needed for 
tonight, we’re going to have to do was coming out of the box,” you’re out,” Jackson said. 

Streak 

that down the stretch and we Maday said with a laugh. “I don’t “Learning to play back-to-back is finished with 12 points and 27 on Saturday. Hansbrough understand that.” even know if he saw me, to be part of the process.” 
continued from page 16 

Johnson played in net Friday honest.” Notre Dame seeks to clinch sec-the Big East standings, behind Senior forward Carleton Scott eight assists. 
night, stopping 21 of 22 shots in a Freshman forwards Jeff ond-round home ice next week-a Pittsburgh team the Irish beat notched a double-double for 
solid performance. Saturday Costello and T.J. Tynan both end in a pair of games at Ferris on the road Jan. 24. Notre Dame, scoring 13 points 
night, however, freshman Steven found the back of the net, but the State. “This week got us confidence. and grabbing 11 rebounds. 
Summerhays made a start in goal goal that most excited the Irish The Louisville game Fourth-year forward Tim 
and turned away 12 of 13 shots in was that of freshman defenseman Contact Allan Joseph at [Wednesday] was a great win,” Abromaitis scored 12 points, 
a performance that pleased Jared Beers, who scored the first ajoseph2@nd.edu Brey said. “I think right now and Tyrone Nash and Scott our energy level is very good. Martin each added 10. The vibe around our group, I Freshman guard Eric Atkins 
Michigan took all three doubles while Frilling bypassed No. 83 love. And we’re in the mix and came off the bench and chipped 
matches, two of which consisted of Jackie Wu 7-5, 6-1, marking her 

Frilling
chasing down a regular-season in seven assists in a 23-assist 

new Irish pairings. The new duo of fifth straight win against a nation-title. It’s a realistic thing for us team effort. 
Rafael and sophomore Chrissie ally ranked opponent. Kellner 
continued from page 16 
down the stretch.” Shaun Noriega scored a 

McGaffigan fell 8-3 at No. 2 dou-notched up her second individual Notre Dame held the Bulls (8-career-high 23 points for the 
Dame the doubles point, despite bles while the other first-time pair win of the weekend, taking down 18, 2-11) scoreless for more Bulls. 
an 8-5 loss by the new duo of sen-of freshmen Kellner and No. 64 Rachael Dillon 2-6, 7-6 (7­than seven minutes to turn a 3-The Irish travel to No. 25 
ior Kristen Rafael and freshman Sabacinski fell 8-2 at No. 3 dou-4) and 6-3 after three intense sets 2 deficit into a 24-3 lead, which West Virginia on Saturday, 
JoHanna Manningham. bles. of play. the Irish sustained the rest of when they can match their 
In the singles rounds, five of the Singles got off to a better start. The victories were short-lived as the way. best-ever record through 14 
six matches went to the Irish. Frilling dominating over Rafael, McGaffigan and Sabacinski The early run gave the Irish a conference games (11-3 in 
Frilling began the sets when she Michigan’s No. 11 Denise fell at the No. 3, No. 4 and No. 6 chance to use 11 players and 2000-01). Tip-off is at 1 p.m. 
took down Nicky Stracar 6-2, 6-1 Muresan. Even with wins from singles, respectively. rest some of their starters — 
and Mathews followed with a 6-2, Kellner at No. 6 singles and The week’s performances namely senior guard Ben Contact Matt Gamber at 
6-1 win over Hois to seal the Irish Mathews at No. 2, losses from the helped the Irish highlight its weak-Hansbrough, who typically mgamber@nd.edu 
victory. Both Frilling and Mathews remaining three matches resulted nesses and areas to work on, how-remain undefeated (8-0) in singles in an overall loss for the Irish. ever. play. After a break on Friday, Notre “A key thing we really need to 
Sabacinski moved up to No. 5 Dame hosted Vanderbilt. Even work on is doubles. We lost the singles, where she defeated Chupa with Frilling and Mathews defeat-doubles point in both those match­6-1, 6-4. Rafael and Kellner also ing No. 20 Alex Leatu and Rachael es and lost 4-3, so that just shows racked up victories, with Dillon 8-1 at No. 1 doubles, the how important that point is,” Manningham standing as the only Commodores sealed the doubles Frilling said. “If we win the dou-Irish loss. point by taking down the duo of bles point, we win the match.” 
“Our coach said a great thing Rafael and McGaffigan along with The Irish now have a 12-day about college tennis is that there is Kellner and Sabacinski. rest before their next series of always another match to play, and With play resembling their matches on Feb. 25-27, when they that’s what we did. We regrouped efforts against Michigan, both will travel to Mobile, Ala. for the from two tough losses,” Frilling Frilling and Mathews managed to Blue-Gray Tournament. said. overpower their singles competi-
The weekend began on a less tors. Mathews had no trouble tak-Contact Megan Finneran at than desirable note when ing down No. 50 Leatu 6-3, 6-1, mfnnera@nd.edu 

MEN’S GOLF 



Irish beat Campbell in tiebreaker 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame defeated Campbell University Saturday to finish the weekend 2-1 and earn a share of fifth place at The Match Play at the TPC of Tampa Bay in Tampa, Florida. 
“You know, it’s nice to get a win, but we really fought to two ties,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “At this point in the season, ranked where we are, it’s more important just to have a good showing.” 
Led by the bottom half of their lineup, the No. 26 Irish barely squeaked by Campbell on a tiebreaker. Tied at 2.5 apiece, Notre Dame took the match by virtue of having won six holes to Campbell’s five. The win gave Notre Dame a share of fifth place as the fifth place match with Ball State was cancelled due to dark­ness. 
On Friday, the Irish defeated Morehead State (4.5-0.5) before falling to Marquette (2.5-2.5) in a tiebreaker. 
Chris Walker, Niall Plat, Max Scodro and Paul McNamara all posted victories in their respective matches while No. 1 Tom Usher halved, picking up half a point against Morehead State. It was a dominating performance for an Irish team with hopes of a tourna­ment championship. 
Those hopes were dashed later in the day as Notre Dame experi­enced the heartbreak of a tiebreak falling on holes-won dif­ferential (2.5-2.5) to Marquette. Usher and Walker, Notre Dame’s top two golfers, posted victories while Scodro battled to a draw and McNamara and Platt were defeated. 
The Irish got back on their feet on Sunday and were lucky enough to be on the winning side of tiebreaker. McNamara and Platt earned victories for the Irish over Ben Polland and Mitch Gray, respectively, while Scodro battled Amanjyot Singh to a draw. The bottom three of the Irish lineup proved to be the difference on the day as both No. 1 Usher and No. 2 Walker fell. 
Regardless of the results, Kubinski knew it was beneficial for his team to return to the course and compete. 
“It was really important to get out on the course this weekend,” Kubinski said. “It was our first match since October and our last until early March, so it was very important to get out and compete a little bit.” 
The Irish next take to the links in Scottsdale, Arizona, on March 5 for the Alumni Matches at Whisper Rock Golf Club. 

Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 14, 2011 


McGraw 
continued from page 16 
the second half was about as well as we’ve played all year,” Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. “We got the press going and we shot the ball extremely well, which is rare against Rutgers because they are a great defensive team.” 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins and senior forward Devereaux Peters led the sec­ond -half surge. The duo scored a combined 41 points, 29 of which came in the sec­ond half. The offensive explo­sion was needed after a slow-paced first half in which the Irish scored a mere 29 points. 
McGraw felt that the second half was played at Notre Dame’s speed, and not at its opponent’s. 
“I thought we were playing at their pace in the first half,” McGraw said. “Then Skylar got it into high gear and start­ed pushing the ball, and that is when we’re at our best. She was finding people on one end and driving the ball, attacking the basket.” 
Senior guard Brittany Mallory contributed with her first career double-double, 



Heinzen 
continued from page 16 
Guilfoyle went 5-0 for the sabre. 
Sophomore épéeist Jack Piaso said that while the fencers who did not travel to Duke only faced club team competition, the matches were still meaningful to many individuals. 
“Even though the competi­tion was not as strong, it was still important to perform well to finalize monogram qualifi­cations,” he said. 
Piaso said that the team is in a strong position after the regular season and looking forward to post season events. 
“We are definitely feeling fairly confident,” he said. “We showed through the year netting 10 points and picking up 10 assists in the win. She is the fifth Notre Dame player this season to record a dou­ble-double in a game. 
“She’s been our best defend­er all year, [was] on the oppo­nent’s best player and she really did it on offense tonight,” McGraw said. 
The win was Notre Dame’s first against Rutgers at home in over six years. The Irish have now defeated the Scarlet Knights two consecutive times, the first time they have accomplished that feat since beating them in 1999 and 2000. 
“This win was huge,” McGraw said. “I think we’re really in great shape now and can really focus on the next game.” 
The next game is against No. 2 Connecticut Saturday. The Irish will look to avenge a 79-76 loss to the Huskies at home earlier this season. 
The matchup will be the start of a tough four-game stretch for the Irish, which includes road games at West Virginia and DePaul, two of the most talented teams in the conference, to conclude the regular season. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
that there is a lot of depth on the team.” 
The women’s squad finished the season undefeated, while the men had one loss to St. Johns. Piaso said that the loss was a great motivating factor for the Irish, and could even be a positive moving forward. 
“Ever since the lone loss to St. Johns, it woke everyone up and humbled some people,” he said. “We have been work­ing a lot harder ever since. We have gone into NCAAs undefeated the past couple years and have underper ­formed. Now that we know we are beatable, we will go in even tougher.” 
The Irish begin their post­season effort March 5-6 at the Midwest Fencing Championships. 

Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 



Irish pick up pair of wins 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

The No. 25 Irish picked up two key wins in an important doubleheader victory over Michigan State and Marquette in East Lansing Saturday. 
“It was good to get two wins over the weekend, ” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “We were able to keep the momentum going that we gained when we played well against Virginia, Illinois and against Duke a man down.” 
The Irish have now won four consecutive matches after dropping two in a row a few weeks back to Illinois and Duke. 
“We’re doing some good things,” Sachire said. “The danger we faced was losing our confidence when we did-n’t see ourselves winning. But in those losses we played well against good opponents.” 
In the first match, Notre Dame defeated conference rival Marquette, 7-0. Junior Casey Watt led the way with victories in both singles and doubles. He won in straight sets at the No. 1 singles position, and won his dou­bles match with freshman Greg Andrews. 
“Casey has been a force for us this year,” Sachire said. “He’s getting each oppo ­nent’s top player, which is very impressive with the quality of teams we have played, as we have one of the toughest schedules in the country.” 
Senior Stephen Havens also added victories as both a singles and doubles player against Marquette. In the singles match, he came out on top in a tightly matched three-set victory, which was key in setting the tone for a strong team effort. 
In the second match, Notre Dame defeated Michigan State, giving the Spartans their first loss of the season. Once again, Watt picked up a victory at both the singles and doubles positions. 
“He’s responded to the challenge this season,” Sachire said. “He had his ups and downs last year, but it gave him a sense of what to look for. His physical effort is as good as anyone in the country.” 
Michigan State was previ­ously undefeated and was coming off a victory over No. 21 Wake Forest heading into the doubleheader. 
Notre Dame will attempt to continue their winning ways as the spring season picks up. The Irish host talented 
opponents Michigan and North Carolina next week­end. 
“Those will be tough matches on our home court next weekend,” Sachire said. 
The Irish will face Michigan on Saturday with a 1 p.m. start. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  
 21  22  
23  
 24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  
39  
 40  
 41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
 
48  49  50  51  
 52  53  
 
54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  67  
68  69  70  
71  72  73  

Monday, February 14, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 
58Another place tofollow the objectnamed in the circled letters 
64E-mail filter's target66Jacques of “MonOncle” 67Governed 68Top of the head69Get ___the ground floor70Had aroleon stage71Wowed 
72“___ On Downthe Road” (“TheWiz” song)
73Like mosquitoes 
Down 
1 Pierre's state: Abbr. 2 Buddhist monk 3 Love, in 51­Down 4 Words,informally5 Haughty sorts 6 Cowgirl Evans 7 Puts to work 8 Dance related to the mambo 9 Iran's capital10Sales talk 
11Outdoor eatingplace where youmight lay a blanket 
12One thing ___time 13Brown from the beach 21___Lumpur,Malaysia22Slate, e.g.,
briefly25Katmandu native 26Unspoken, as an 
understanding27Reverberated 28Release from 
slavery 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by James Tuttle 
30Nothing 45Abbr. beforea 60WXY, ona nameontop of phone
31Computer amemo

whizzes 61Sandwiches that 50Immobilize aredefinitely not 
33Turtle's “home” kosher, in brief 
51Madrid's land, to 

35Prefix with natives 62Onionlike soup center ingredient
52Minor despot 38Gridiron carriers: 55Measured by a 63Spin zone? Abbr. stopwatch 64Place to get a 41French friend 57Worcestershire mudbathor 
___ massage

42Note ona Chinesemenu 59Siouan people 65Furry foot 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Many EasternEuropeans 
6 Air passage 
10Tiff 
14“Good Will Hunting” starMatt 
15Arthur with a Queens stadiumnamed after him 
16Bread for agyro 
17BPgas brand 
18Wife of Jacob 
19“___ See forMiles” (song bythe Who) 
20One place tofollow the objectnamed in the circled letters (reading left toright) 
23A/C stat 
24Hannibal ___,vice presidentunder Abraham Lincoln 
26Golf peg 
29Artist whose 1999 hit “Smooth”was#1 for 12 weeks 
32These, in Tours 34Zenith 36Untruth 37Something with
xand y axes 39Roughen in coldweather 40___Highway(route throughWhitehorse,
Yukon) 43Scottish hillside 44Ancient Asia 
Minor region 46Medical care 
grp. 47Buy's opposite 48Sleuth, in slang 49Computer game
with virtual people 53Be sick 54Old-fashioned paper copies 56Carrier to Copenhagen 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
PLEASANDVILLE 



JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
RANGL  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

GINIC  

 
 
 
 
 

LAFTUR  

 
 
 
 
 
 

NEETIC  

 
 
 
 
 
 




” 



Answer here: “ 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CAPON LYING UNHOOK INFIRM Saturday’s 
Answer: This comes out during a debate — YOUR OPINION 
BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer



Sports
Monday, February 14, 2011 page 16 
HOCKEY 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Coming into the weekend needing six points to keep pace in the CCHA race, No. 10 Notre Dame did just that, sweeping Bowling Green to take sole possession of first place in the conference with just two weekends remaining. The Irish (18-9-5, 15-6-3-2 CCHA) defeated the Falcons (8­21-3, 3-18-3-1) 2-1 Friday night and came back with a much stronger performance Saturday night to earn a com­fortable 5-1 victory. 
With the victories, Notre Dame clinched a first-round bye in the CCHA playoffs and moved within one point of clinching home ice in the sec­ond round. 
“Once you get into that posi­tion it’s great, but really to me it’s about how well we’re going 
see JACKSON/page 14 


Green sweep 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Freshman center Anders Lee skates with the puck during Notre Dame’s 2-1 victory over Bowling Green Friday in the Joyce Center. Lee scored the game-winner for the Irish. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 



Michigan, Vanderbilt beat Irish 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Despite back-to-back losses on Thursday and Saturday, the Irish (4-4) pulled back together to come out of the weekend’s home tournament with a win on Sunday. After falling to both No. 8 Michigan and No. 18 Vanderbilt by 4-3 decisions, No. 13 Notre Dame triumphed over Wisconsin 6-1. 
The Irish pulled out of their rut on Sunday, improving with a 6-1 win over the Badgers after two consecutive losses. The freshman doubles team of Julie Sabacinski and Jennifer Kellner, who began playing together against Michigan, moved up to No. 2 for the first time in the season, and pro­ceeded to earn a crucial 8-5 win over Wisconsin’s Jenny Hois and Angela Chupa. Their win was complemented by a 
see FRILLING/page 13 
FENCING 



Notre Dame beats UNC, Duke, Hopkins to sweep Duke Duals 
trophy at each weapon. The while the sabre was again vic-marks, while freshman Kevin Michigan State.
By MICHAEL TODISCO 

remainder of the men and torious in a close match with Hassett led the sabreists with For the men, sophomore
Sports Writer 

women’s teams remained at a 5-4 edge. Notre Dame’s a 6-3 mark. Jack Piaso led the épée with 
home, with matches against most lopsided victory came Meanwhile, both the men an 8-1 mark, freshman 
The Irish finished the week-club teams from Illinois, against Johns Hopkins, where and women stayed home and Nicholas Kubik went 6-0 for end undefeated, capping off a Chicago and Michigan State. the Irish crushed the Blue each posted three victories the foils, and senior Barron successful regular season in At Duke, the Irish started off Jays 23-4. The foil and épée against Illinois, Chicago and Nydam went 5-0 for the which the both the men and strong, defeating the Tar posted impressive 8-1 victo-Michigan State. sabre. women grabbed hold of the Heels 18-9. The foil squad led ries, with the sabre not far The men's team took down Junior épéeist Diane top national ranking. the way, notching a 7-2 win, behind, winning 7-2. Chicago 23-4, Illinois 23-4, Zielinski, who went 7-2, led 
A small group from the while épée won 6-3 and sabre Senior épéeist Greg and Michigan State 25-2 all in the women, freshman Adriana men’s team traveled to North squeaked by with a 5-4 deci-Schoolcraft led the weapon dominant fashion. The women Camacho and senior Katie Carolina to compete in the sion. Next, the Irish defeated with a 6-2 record over the also swept through the day, Heinzen went 8-1 for the foils, Duke Duals, where they the host Blue Devils 19-8. The weekend. Junior Reggie with a 22-5 victory against and sophomore Daniele defeated Duke, North Carolina foil and épée squads both Bentley and senior Steve Chicago, a 26-1 win verses and Johns Hopkins, winning a recorded 7-2 advantages, Kubik led the foil with 8-1 Illinois and a 24-3 win over see HEINZEN/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 



Press overwhelms Rutgers 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
It was not easy, but the Irish accomplished what they set out to do Saturday after­noon — to beat conference rival Rutgers to head into their showdown against Connecticut, Notre Dame’s biggest game of the season, 
on a nine -game winning streak. 
In front of 9,149 fans at Purcell Pavilion, the fourth sellout of the season, No. 8 Notre Dame (22-4, 11-1 Big East) went on an 11-0 run late in the game to put the Scarlet Knights (14-10, 7-4) away for good in a 71-49 vic­tory. 
“I thought that stretch in 
see MCGRAW/page 14 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 



Cooley gets big in win over South Florida 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 

No. 8 Notre Dame used an early 22-0 run to sidestep a potential trap game and trounce South Florida, 78-55, on Saturday in Tampa. 
The Irish (21-4, 10-3 Big East) led 41-17 at halftime, in large part due to the play of sophomore forward Jack Cooley, whose 18 points off the bench helped spark a Notre Dame offensive attack that included six scorers in double-figures. Cooley, who entered the contest averaging 3.8 points per game, made his first nine shots and added eight rebounds. 
“I think you’re seeing the development and understand­ing and the confidence of a young guy believing he’s a real­ly good player with a chance to, maybe, be a great player one day,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “There’s always been flashes of this, especially in practice.” 
The win was Notre Dame’s seventh straight in the confer­ence and gives the Irish their longest Big East win streak within a single season since 2000-01, when they won eight in a row. The victory also gave the Irish their first three-game conference road win streak since 2000-01, and put Notre Dame alone in second place in 
see STREAK/page 13 




