
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 16, 2011 
Don’t worry too much, conference play is here 

Randy Waldrum must be pull­ing his hair. 
Thanks to 162 victories, six NCAA College Cups and two NCAA titles at Notre Dame, he still has plenty. But not even the Irish coach can explain the frustration of a 3-3-1 start for an Irish team loaded with some of the most talented players in the nation. 
Granted, most teams don’t follow up a cham­pionship season with the nation’s toughest schedule, at least by choice. All three of Notre Dame’s losses this season have come on the road at the hands of top­10 teams, and they’ve outplayed all of them for the majority of each contest. 
In a loss to then-No. 3 North Carolina, the Irish edged the Tar Heels in shots, shots on goal and corner kicks earned, but fell in overtime 2-1. 
In a 3-1 loss to then-No. 10 Duke, the Irish outplayed the Blue Devils in virtually every statistical category but the one that matters, yielding three goals in a 12-minute span. 
Perhaps most disheartening, a 2-1 loss to then-No. 2 Stanford, the Irish took a 1-0 lead into the final 10 minutes of the match before the Cardinal mounted a comeback. Notre Dame followed up that performance with a lackluster effort the next day, earning a tie against then-No.17 Santa Clara. 
It’s not talent or experience. All-American Melissa Hender­son has time and again proved she’s the most talented forward in the country, averaging a goal per game. Hermann Trophy semifinalist Courtney Barg has started all but one game at the midfield position after missing most of last season due to injury. College Cup Most Outstand­ing Defensive Player Jessica Schuveiler leads the backfield in her third-year as a team captain. 

Yet the Irish head into Friday’s Big East opener against Louis­ville with a .500 record to their name and no victories on the road. Maybe it’s a championship hangover, but the 2011 squad has failed to bring the same tenacity and edge it brought to the 2010 College Cup after be­ing handed a No. 4 seed by the NCAA tournament committee. 
While North Carolina and Stanford surely came into their contests motivated to beat the team that ended their seasons in the tournament last year, a preseason No. 1 ranking for Notre Dame certainly didn’t help either. 
Maybe it’s the loss of a core group of seniors desperate to win a championship after being so close in 2008. Waldrum was tasked with replacing play­ers both on the field and in the locker room. 
Then again, maybe history will simply repeat itself. 
Waldrum has never opened up a new year with a soft schedule, always hoping to discover his team’s flaws before they crop up in the postseason. The Irish coach has developed a program that simply doesn’t take a year off. 
Notre Dame traditionally finds its stride in the Big East, having dropped a total of seven games and yielding only seven ties since 1991. 
Most importantly, it’s only September. The postseason is nearly two months away, more than enough time for a coach who reassembled a team in the week-and-a-half preceding the 2010 tournament. 
Maybe it’s just time to relax. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Irish start conference play 
dictable side led by sophomore forward Christine Exeter, the reigning Big East Rookie of the Year. 
“Louisville has the same play­ers almost every year, but their team is always up and down in the standings,” Waldrum said. “They have five Canadian kids who played well for them as freshmen, and Exeter is a very good player up top. They’re go­ing to be a difficult matchup for us.” 
After Friday’s match, the Irish will hit the road to face Cincinnati on Sunday. Wal­drum believes that between the team’s attitude and a unique home field advantage, a trip to play the Bearcats (4-2-2) is al­ways a challenge. 
“Cincinnati is always a hard­working, blue-collar team,” he said. “[Cincinnati coach] Mi­chelle Salmon always gets a lot out of those kids. It’s also very tough going there because their facility isn’t very good. With the Astroturf there, it can be hard for our kids to get into a rhythm, and that really levels the playing field.” 
And while Cincinnati may have a home-field advantage, Waldrum and the Irish hope that Alumni Stadium continues to be a difficult place to visit. 
“Around this time last year we were about 20th in atten­dance,” Waldrum said. “This year, we’re in the top six, and that’s been great for the team. We’re thankful to the student body for all the support they’ve shown so far, and let’s try to keep that going.” 
Notre Dame and Louisville will kick off at 5 p.m. Friday at Alumni Stadium. The Irish will then head to Cincinnati for a 
3:30 p.m. start Sunday. 

Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish scheduled away matches at top-5 oppo­nents Duke, North Carolina and Stanford in their early season schedule, their hope was that it would leave them better prepared for a repeat run at a national champion­ship. Despite losing those three contests, No. 14/12 Notre Dame (3-3-1) feels the 
early to get exposed. We didn’t want to lose those matches, but now we know we can play those teams. Now we just need to stay focused and not lose our confidence.” 
One area where that early stretch helped the Irish was with their inexperience off the bench. With key players like senior midfielder Court­ney Barg and freshman mid­fielder Karin Simonian out due to injury, underclass­men were called on to play big minutes in their absence. With the team now begin­ning to get healthy again, the roster looks much deeper. 
“Depth and inexperience have been issues for us,” Waldrum said. “We haven’t been able to have a consis­tent group of players on the field yet this season. We were forced to go deep in our roster early on, but them having to play will help us in the long run. 
“We should have [Simonian] and [junior defender] Jazmin Hall available this weekend, but we’ve still got a couple of people banged up. It’s something we’ve got to work through.” 
Getting a cohesive 11 on the field will be crucial for Notre Dame as it heads into Big East 
lessons it learned will ultimately help as the 

Big East sea-“We want the regular 
son begins. 

season title, and then 
“That ’s 

we want to take the 
why we play 

Big East championship 
a schedule 

that next weekend. If 
like that,” 

Irish coach we perform the way Randy Wal-we should, we’ll win” drum said. “You need Randy Waldrum 
these games 

Irish coach 
play. After claiming last year’s regular sea­son champi­onship, the Irish were ousted by Connecticut in their first match at the conference tournament. Wa ld rum believes the team is ready to take on the con­ference and exceed last 

season’s performance. 
“We try to split up the season, and now we’re headed into Big East play,” he said. “We have a great conference in the Big East, but there’s no team in it better than the Dukes, the Car­olinas and the Stanfords we’ve played so far. We want the reg­ular season title, and then we want to take the Big East cham­pionship that next weekend. If we perform the way we should, we’ll win.” 
First up on the road to a conference championship is a pair of matches this weekend. Notre Dame will open Big East play Friday against Louisville at Alumni Field. The Cardinals (2-4-1) are an exciting, unpre­

Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Texas three-step 
Henderson, Barg and Schuveiller collected titles for the better part of a decade, now focus on repeating 
By ANDREW GASTELUM even closer.” Sports Writer Henderson echoed that senti­
ment, adding that their famil-
Nine years ago and more than iarity brings a level of comfort 1,000 miles south of Notre Dame, that takes years to produce. amid awkward icebreakers and “We started playing as kids handshakes, an unbreakable and it’s nice to have a piece of bond formed between Jessica home here with you,” Hender-Schuveiller, Courtney Barg and son said. “We already had ex-Melissa Henderson. Nowadays, perience playing together as that bond is best seen in a de-a group so just being here to­fensive clearance followed by gether created a comfort zone crisp midfield passing and fin-for us.” ished off with a rip into the back That comfort zone was evi­of the net. dent in the trio’s crowning 
“College [consists of] the best achievement: a NCAA national four years of your life, and it championship last year. might as well be spent with “We had come so close in some great people,” senior for-club and everybody dreams ward Henderson said. “I am about that moment in college,” so thank-Schuveiller ful to have said. “Seeing [Schuveiller the College 
and Barg]. “It’s honestly been a Cup as a kid The time has blessing to be able to and then ac-just flown by come to a school so far tually being with them.” away and have such on the field to 
The trio met a close group of us to experience the in seventh always be around. It’s win was really grade, when surreal.” 
like a part of your family 
they joined Led by 
came to school with you. 
the Dallas Schuveiller — 
It made the transition 
Texans club the 2010 Col-
so much easier, and we 
team, and lege Cup Most 
became even closer.” 
have been Outstand­inseparable ing Defensive since. Their Jessica Schuveiller Player — the time togeth-Irish defense 
senior defender 
er has taken shut out five them from of their six Texas plains opponents in to South Bend winters to over-the 2010 NCAA tournament seas stints with the U.S. Nation-and outscored their opponents al Team, yet the smooth tran-15-1. Henderson was the tour­sition from club to high school nament’s Most Outstanding Of-to college soccer remains the fensive Player with three goals group’s most cherished asset. and four assists, and Barg, a se­
“It’s honestly been a blessing nior midfielder, returned from to be able to come to a school an injury that sidelined her for so far away and have such a two months to provide much-close group of us to always needed stability and balance to be around,” senior defender the Irish midfield for the cham-Schuveiller said. “It’s like a part pionship run. The now tri-cap­of your family came to school tains served as critical pieces with you. It made the transition to Irish coach Randy Waldrum’s so much easier, and we became third national title, something that Schuveiller credits to Wal­drum’s system of developing players. 
“Year-in and year-out he has players getting national recog­nition,” Schuveiller said. “It’s really a testament to how great of a coach he is.” 
In 2008, Waldrum heavily recruited the club teammates, who followed their club coach to the Dallas Sting before win­ning a club team state title. They each cut their high school careers short, using their se­nior years to focus more on club competition and the college re­cruiting circuit. 
“[Waldrum] was such a huge draw in the recruiting process, knowing that he was coaching [at Notre Dame],” Barg said. “I had heard such good things about him and then to come here and play under him, I feel like I have learned so much.” 
In the last three-plus sea­sons, the Irish have tallied up a 71-10-4 record under Waldrum and have made three consecu­tive College Cups, a feat that has come with increased dedi­cation and discipline.
 “In club, you can only learn so much because you only practice a few times a week,” Schuveiller said. “But in college you are out here every day and go over things until they are en-grained in your mind.” 
Schuveiller, the team’s vocal leader, has been a consistent force for Waldrum’s backline throughout her college career, starting in 85 games since com­ing to Notre Dame. The market­ing major also became the first player in Notre Dame women’s soccer history to be voted by her teammates as a three-time captain, even though she calls herself fortunate to have joined her close friends coming out of high school. 
“Obviously Mel and Courtney are such amazing players, I was just thrilled to find out that I was going to be on the same team with them,” she said. 



Yet accompanied by her hu­mility, Schuveiller brings a te­nacity crucial to being a suc­cessful defender. 
When an Indiana attacker slid in for a rough tackle on the senior defender in Notre Dame’s 4-1 win Sept. 4, Schuveiller was the first to let her opponent know that the challenge was unwarranted — bumping the Hoosier which led to a face-to­face confrontation. 
“I had a few choice words with [the Indiana forward] and I had to put her in her place,” Schuveiller said with a grin. 
Schuveiller also makes dart­ing runs through the midfield that relies on a fluid connection with Barg — an All-American selection in 2009 — who serves as the offense’s facilitator and heads the Irish’s axis of pass­ing. 
“You want to pass the ball in this offense, because you know the players around you are capable of finishing, espe­cially with Jess coming out of the back. She makes so many things happen for us,” said Henderson, a psychology major. “And if we go through Courtney, we can connect to anywhere on the field because she has a feel for where everybody is on the field.” 
Henderson, meanwhile, has already scored seven goals for the Irish in seven games, in­cluding a hat trick against In­diana to win the adidas Invita­tional title. The 2010 Hermann Trophy runner-up is currently tied for seventh on the Notre Dame all-time scoring list with 59 career goals and holds the record for most goals in a single postseason with nine in 2009. 
She also remains the only high school junior to be awarded the Gatorade National High School Player of the Year in 2007 and was an ESPY nominee this past summer for Best College Fe­male Athlete. And even though the senior from Garland, Texas is the favorite to take this year’s Hermann Trophy for best colle­giate soccer player, Henderson’s focus is steadfastly team-ori­ented as the Irish look to defend their title. 
“It’s an honor to be mentioned among all those great players and great teams but it really comes down to how our team is doing and helping us to win games,” the forward said. “Our team is not really worried about how we are perceived by oth­ers. Our main focus is playing one game at a time and making sure that we are prepared to play as a team in every aspect of our game.” 
The group takes inspiration in Notre Dame alum Shannon Boxx, who represented the run­ner-up U.S. National Team at the 2011 World Cup. 
“It is really cool to see a Notre Dame player representing the United States,” Schuveiller said. “To see her there, knowing that she went through all of the same training and drills that we are currently doing is really exciting.” 
Now that the trio has collect­ed a club state championship, a high school state title — between Barg and Schuveiller — and a NCAA national championship, the only thing missing would be a World Cup, a prospect that each of the three dodged with wide smiles and the attitude of a defending champ with confer­ence play coming up. 
“We can’t even think that far ahead right now,” Barg said. “Right now we are just focused on the season ahead.” 
The prospect of one day unit­ing under the Stars and Stripes remains bright, but first, after nine years and countless trips, they have a title to defend. 

Contact Andrew Gastelum at     agastel1@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 16, 2011 



Trio’s rise to glory began at club level with Dallas Sting 
By MEGAN GOLDEN was losing 3-0 at halftime. Sports Writer The game served as a learning 
experience for the entire team 

With a front row seat for six and highlighted the trio’s years of the Notre Dame tri-leadership. captains’ careers, Dallas Sting “I hadn’t said much in the coach Kenny Medina played a game,” he said. “I’m a pretty crucial role in their develop-driven coach, and I drive my ment. Once he was done with players pretty hard,” he said. them, both on and off the field, “I challenged them at halftime he sent them off to a friend to let them know I can sit on and mentor at Notre Dame. the bench and not get up, or 
Forward Melissa Henderson, [I can] coach you like I coach midfielder Courtney Barg and you and we can win.” defender Jessica Schuveiller, The team rallied to score all seniors, began their tuto-four goals in the second half rial under Medina in seventh and win the match. Medina grade. had his team so fired up, he 
“I’ve had the best seat in the said, that the opposing coach house,” Medina said. “You get refused to shake his hand fol-the perspective not only from lowing the game. the stands but also [from] “I [told my team], ‘Just trust coaching them, driving them me, I’m not trying to break to be better [and] also the you; I’m trying to define you,’” times you get to have a good he said. “The other coach end-laugh with them. To have ed up wanting to attack me those three and the caliber of because I was driving them players we have, I just don’t so hard. We had such a laugh know when we’ll have another out of it, but it was a big trust ates that] she has God-given from my perspective, let them it’s not because it’s Randy or trio like that again.” and safety thing that we per-talent. She is so humble be-know how much I miss them Notre Dame, but because he 
The glimpses of leader-severed there.” cause she gets it. She has not and how much I follow them. did a lot for me as a youth ship that these three seniors Medina said he knew long abused it, but she uses it for Tell them to cherish every op-player,’” he said. “Randy was showed early in their careers ago the three would be suc-the good.” portunity they get to step on my favorite [coach] by far. He made it obvious they were cessful in college, compiling Barg, Henderson and the field, and [tell them] that believed in me as a youth, and going to be special players. honors, awards and titles. Schuveiller may not know how they’ve been a lot of joy to a he knew his X’s and O’s as An avid soccer fan, Medina “There was no doubt about much their former coach is lot of people when we can see good as anybody.” was not surprised when he it in my mind,” he said. “They cheering for them to become them play.” In a similar manner, Medina heard his former players were each bring something a little the best. In fact, Medina ad-Medina has not had the op-believed in Barg, Henderson named tri-captains. different to the game. That’s mitted that he doubts they portunity to watch his former and Schuveiller, a grouping 
“Courtney wasn’t our out-what makes Notre Dame so even know he is a fan at all. players during their careers at that is indeed rare in nature. spoken leader, but she spoke special because they’re very “If you asked them about Notre Dame, but he said he is “A class like that doesn’t very inwardly to her team,” he committed, dedicated and me, they’d say, ‘Kenny was so just one phone call away from come around very often, and said. “Her team always knew driven for the team. It’s not a hard on us, and he probably making the trip. to me, [fans should] take this the message, but it wasn’t situation where it is a selfish didn’t like us,’” he said. “I talk “I am waiting for an invita-opportunity to understand as transparent to [me]. Jes-thing, and that’s what makes about those kids all the time. tion from my [former] coach,” that three young ladies of that sica was a lot more vocal; we them so special.” They were always part of the he said. caliber is very unusual,” he called her our gladiator. When Despite being considered team, and I never had the feel-Irish coach Randy Waldrum, said. “There are schools that everyone couldn’t go anymore, superstars by fans, the Irish ing that their accolades and an Irving, Texas, native, was have more than three qual­she kept persevering, perse-captains shy away from their how good they were got in the Medina’s soccer coach when ity players on their team, but vering, persevering. She was stardom and credit their way.” Medina was just 14 years old. these girls all came from Dal-always able to fight through. team for getting them to this When asked if he had any Throughout Medina’s coach-las, played for the same club 
“Melissa’s leadership came point in their careers. Medina advice to offer the team cap-ing career, several of his play-team and experienced a lot through the way she per-stressed some things — like tains four years later, Medina ers have elected to continue together throughout all these formed on the field. What she Henderson’s character — nev-took a minute to imagine be-their soccer careers at Notre years. They have not been does right now — she was do-er change. ing back on the field as their Dame. At one point, there stagnant; they have perse­ing it when she was younger. “I think that’s the best thing coach, friend and now biggest were as many as six of Me-vered and gotten better and Her actions spoke louder than she does say about herself fan. dina’s former players on the better.” her words.” — the things she doesn’t say “I’ve said too many things Irish roster. 
Medina vividly remembers a about herself. She is such a throughout the years,” he “The big joke is, ‘Boy, if I Contact Megan Golden at game in San Antonio the team quality person and [appreci-said. “As far as I’m concerned, send all those kids to Randy, mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 






• 2010 NCAA College Cup  • 2010 NCAA College Cup Most  • 2010 NCAA College Cup Most  
All-Tournament Team  Outstanding Offensive Player  Outstanding Defensive Player  
• 2009 NSCAA frst-team All-American  • Named to U.S. U-23 squad in 2010  • Named to U.S. U-23 squad in 2010  
• 2009 Big East Midfelder of the Year  • 2010 Hermann Trophy runner-up  • Starter all 85 matches in her Irish career  
• 2009 Hermann Trophy semifnalist  • 2007 Gatorade National High School  • 2009 frst team all-Big East selection  
• 2009 frst team all-Big East selection  Player of the Year  • Only player to be named three-time  
• Tied for seventh on Notre Dame’s all- captain in Notre Dame history  
time scoring list with 59 goals  


