the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor addresses turmoil in Libya 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Working with a speed that defied its traditional “approach with caution” method, the United Nations Security Council imposed sanc­tions against Libya’s Gadhafi regimen Feb. 26. 
David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, said the rapid action was necessary to pro­tect unarmed civilians from being attacked. The Security Council, he said, referred to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC). 

The ICC called for a report in preparation of legal action, established an arms embargo, banned travel, froze financial assets and created an immedi­ate list of sanctions targets, he said. These, along with other features, will facilitate future decisions on the occurrence of events rather than the passage of time. 
“The Criminal Court is now gathering evidence against Gadhafi for perpetrating mass murder,” Cortright said. “The ruling elite has attacked defenseless civilians, though we now see the situation descending into what may pos­sibly be the beginning of a civil war.” 
Col. Moammar Gadhafi seized control of Libya in September of 1969 in a blood­less coup, according to The New York Times. Since then, he has built his regime through family and tribal alliances with the support of oil revenues. 
According to The New York Times, since then, tension 
see LIBYA/page 5 


Local man acquitted in shooting 
Observer Staff Report 
A South Bend man was recently found not guilty of criminal recklessness for shoot­ing a Notre Dame student in the arm in 2009. 
The man was charged with one count of criminal reckless­ness, a class D felony, in Feb. 2009, according to court docu­ments. The two-year legal bat­tle ended last week when the man was acquitted on Mar. 1. 
The man fired his handgun through the closed front door of his home on Feb. 24, 2009, because he believed someone was breaking into the house. He said he acted in self-defense, according to court documents. 
The shot hit a 23-year-old Notre Dame student in the arm as she stood outside the home. Court documents report she was trying to enter the home because she mistakenly believed it to be her own house. 
The woman was treated at a local hospital and told police she was intoxicated at the time she was shot. 


Morris Inn serves students and public alike 
On-campus hotel caters to University events; director discusses challenges of running the 57-year-old inn 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is sometimes referred to as a “Catholic Disney World” and, appropriately, it has its own hotel — the 57-year-old Morris Inn. Director William J. Beirne said the on-campus hotel works differently than others, as it is primarily focused on the guest experience. 
“The biggest challenge, I would like to say, is it is more about the hospitality,” he said. “It is not as much about the business as some other hotels can be.” 
Beirne said maintaining a pres­ence in the lodging market is also a challenge for the hotel. 
“Trying to maintain your fair share within the marketplace [is crucial]. Guest satisfaction is always high on that,” he said. “They kind of intertwine. Guest satisfaction helps your marketing effort and your occupancy.” 
Beirne, who has served in his position for 13 years, said the hotel serves a variety of guests, ranging from conference atten­dees and alumni to general visi­tors and parents of prospective students. 
“It’s really just a great mix of people from around the world,” he said. 
At the time the Inn was built, the area was lacking in lodging options, Beirne said. He said the University saw an opportunity to house guests on campus. 
“From speaking to [Fr. Theodore Hesburgh], The Morris Inn was the window to the world for the University,” Beirne said. “When this hotel was built in 1953, there probably weren’t a lot of hotels around, so they prob­ably felt they could control their own destiny. This gave them an opportunity to welcome people from all over the world. Would 
see INN/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Landscapers keep winter weather at bay page 3  Scene picks new movie trailers page 8  Women’s basketball page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 8, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH EXTINCT ANIMAL WOULD YOU WANT TO BRING BACK TO LI E? 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Allen Emily Schrank Andrew Gastelum Melissa Flanagan Katie Heit 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Maria Fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 

Virginia firefighter accused of taking drunken joyride 
HAMILTON — Authorities in Virginia say a volunteer firefighter is accused of tak­ing a fire truck on a drunken joyride and nearly smashing into a deputy's patrol car. 
The Loudoun County Sheriff's office says in a press release that 27-year-old Sean Richard Swanson, a volun­teer firefighter in Hamilton, was speeding down a road early Saturday morning in the fire truck. The sheriff’s office says four other volun­teer firefighters who also had been drinking were in the truck with Swanson. 
The release says a deputy had to veer into a ditch to avoid hitting the truck. 
The deputy turned around 
Andy Foley  Beth Mikolajczyk  Carolyn Christian  Christina Link  Joe Cannova  Mike Hur  
junior  junior  junior  junior  junior  junior  
O’Neill  Welsh Family  Lewis  Welsh Family  Dillon  Dillon  

“The “The wild ass.” “I want to “The dodo “The “Saber-toothed longnecks.” cuddle with a bird.” velociraptor, for tiger.” wooly obvious mammoth.” reasons.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

and pulled over the truck. Swanson was arrested and charged with driving under the influence and unautho­rized use of a vehicle. 
A phone message left at a listing for Swanson was not immediately returned Sunday. 
Ferret owners want their pets legalized in California 
SACRAMENTO, — California’s ferret owners are tired of being criminals. 
They live in the only U.S. state besides Hawaii that bans residents from keeping ferrets as pets, forcing an untold number of Californians to keep their beloved weasels hidden from the public. 
But these renegade ferret lovers have no plans to aban­don their long, furry friends. Instead, they’re ramping up their campaign to persuade lawmakers, wildlife regula­tors and the public that it's time to overturn a ban that's been in place for nearly 80 years. 
“There is no reason the ownership of the domesticat­ed ferret should be illegal in California,” said Pat Wright, who heads the Legalize Ferrets campaign, told the California Fish and Game Commission in February. “These guys are part of our family. The pet-human bond is a strong one, and you're stepping on it.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture “Democratic Deepening in Comparative Perspective: Lessons from Brazil, India and South Africa” will be given today at 12:30 
p.m. in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. Patrick Heller, an associate professor of Sociology at Brown University, will be speaking. 
RecSports wil host a Stretching and Relaxation Workshop today at 4:30 p.m. Learn techniques to lengthen your muscles, relax your body and get your mind and body ready for spring. The workshop is free and will take place in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The 2010-2011 Annual Ward-Phillips Lecture Series will begin today with the lec­ture “Who's Irish: Henry James, Colm Toibin, James Joyce, Gish Jen”. Wai Chee Dimock, the William Lampson Professor of English & American Studies at Yale University will be speak­ing. The lecture will take place at 5 p.m. in the Eck Center Auditorium. 
Donuts will be sold tomorrow from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. outside DeBartolo Hall and Jordan Hall of Science. Donuts are $1 and the proceeds benefit Darfur. The event is sponsored by the St. Xavier Club of Notre Dame. 
Dhiru Thadani will give the lecture “Urbanism: A Perspective Solution to the Global Crisis” tomorrow at 5 
p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. A book signing of Thadani's work The Language of Towns and Cities will follow the lecture in the Bond Hall Gallery. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

A March 7 article, "Students dance to raise funds," listed South Bend restaurants that donated food for the dancers, but did not list Fiddler's Hearth, which 




also donated food. The Observer regrets this error. 
LOW 38 LOW 38 LOW 32 LOW 27 LOW 37 LOW 30 


Tuesday, March 8, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Landscapers keep winter weather at bay 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Snow is a reality that stu­dents at Notre Dame have to live with, but it is one land­scaping services actually has to deal with. Manager of landscaping services Pat McCaulsin and his team of 33 groundskeepers are respon­sible for keeping all 1,250 acres of Notre Dame safe and clean during the winter months. 
“Starting Dec. 1, we break into three shifts,” McCauslin said. “The first shift works from 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., the second shift of five guys work from 3:30 to 11 and the final shift of three guys works from 2 a.m. to 10 a.m.” 
When the weather gets really bad, the groundskeep­ers work in two 12 -hour shifts, from 2 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 2 a.m. They are also all on call 24 hours a day and seven days a week all winter long, McCaulsin said. 
In keeping campus clean, McCaulsin and his team uti-are removing snow from. lize different equipment The groundskeepers use depending on what area they two-and-a-half-ton trucks to plow and spread salt on the large parking lots. They also have four one-ton trucks to clear the smaller parking lots. Four pick-up trucks are in service cleaning off areas too small for the one -ton truck, McCaulsin said. 



“We have seven bobcats with brooms that sweep walkways, as well as spread salt and liquid ice melter,” McCaulsin said. “There’s also a pickup that spreads [liquid ice melter].” 
Along with the equipment, there are two groundskeep­ers charged with keeping the stairwells and handicapped ramps clean. They do this with manual labor. 
Basically the job landscap­ing services is tasked with is to keep campus open and running as usual, even when the weather gets in the way. 
“With the diversity of cam­pus, the people not used to the snow, when we have over one inch we are at full scale operations,” McCaulsin said. “Our goal is to have every­thing done at least once before 7 a.m.” 
The hardest part of land­scaping ’s job is that they have no control over the snow when it’s falling. The groundskeepers refer to the snow that stops and then starts again as the “five o’clock curse.” 
“The most disheartening part of the job is when it snows and snows, ” groundskeeper Matt Brazo said. “You just can’t keep up.” 
McCaulsin said what makes this job worth it is his staff. 
“They are dedicated and have a sense of loyalty to their jobs,” he said. “Notre Dame takes priority in the winter.” 
Brazo said the best part of the job for him is the pride in keeping campus up and run­ning, even in bad weather. Groundskeeper Terron Phillips said working with McCaulsin makes the job worth it, as well as the recognition the landscaping crew receives. 
“The recognition and praise we receive for what we do [is the best part of the job], ” Phillips said. “I’ve been here 16 years, and we’ve gotten the most [recog­nition] this year for our work.” 
When the winter season is done, the landscaping crew is still hard at work. In the spring, especially the month of May, their biggest job is preparing campus for com­mencement, McCaulsin said. 
They also mow the grass, trim shrubs and trees and plant flowerbeds at all the new construction projects and dorm renovations. 


Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 8, 2011 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Doyle discusses split of Office of ResLife 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Vice president for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle attend­ed Monday’s Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting to dis­cuss the forthcoming split of the Office of Residence Life and Housing into two offices, the Office of Residence Life and the Housing Office. 
The split, effective June 1, will separate the Division of Student Affairs into five main sections, each headed by a different leader who will be responsible for different aspects of the division, Doyle said. 
One subdivision will focus on the University’s mission and integration, and its asso­ciate vice president will over­see Campus Ministry and the Career Center. 
“This has everything to do with integration,” Doyle said. “The integration of academic life, of spiritual life and gen­eral student life.” 
The second, under the direction of an associate vice president for Residential Life, will supervise the community of rectors and the Housing Office. 
“I think our dorms are the fundamental building blocks of community here,” Doyle said. “They are the primary way we deliver our mission, our chief ideas of our opera­tion.” 
Doyle aims to call greater attention not only to the dorm structures and potential reno­vations or modifications, but also to those who staff each hall. 
“I want to bring both the building and the individuals who lead those buildings into one mind and one heart,” he said. 
The associate vice president who will head the student development subdivision will direct the facilities and pro­gramming aspects of student activities, as well as the Office of Residence Life. 
Doyle said the unusual deci­sion to group organizations such as student government with those students being dis­ciplined by ResLife is prompt­ed by the desire to use the former as a teaching example for the latter. 
“One group on the student activities side is motivated in a positive direction, while the others have stumbled along the way,” he said. “The ques­tion is how do we help reclaim them, how do we use that as a moment of reflec­tion.” 
The associate vice president who will concentrate on stu­dent services will oversee stu­dent outreach programs such as alcohol and drug educa­tion, the Gender Relations Center, multicultural student programs and services and the University Counseling Center. 
“These sections are all related to not only student services, but to students who have special concerns,” Doyle said. 
Last, the director of Finance & Operations will also be in charge of University Health Services. 
“I want someone with a business mind to be thinking about health services and insurance and such,” Doyle said. 
According to Doyle, integra­tion is the organizing princi­pal around the design and modification of the Division of Student Affairs. 
“We need to be sure that your heart and your mind are being engaged simultaneous­ly,” he said. “We need to make sure all these parts of you that are essential as human beings have a chance to grow and develop and flourish.” 
Although the manifestation of any benefits from the reconstruction of Student Affairs will not be seen for many years, Doyle hopes to see a greater retention of both hall rectors and seniors on campus in the future. 
“I think you’ll find a little more stability in the dorms, hopefully a greater example of collegiality,” he said. 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 




RCLCreceivessummergrant 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
A six-week intensive sum­mer Shakespeare program for inner city youth will be funded by a grant given to the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) by Better World Books, a for-profit social ven­ture founded by three Notre Dame graduates. 
The Literacy and Education in Action Program (LEAP) grant totaled $10,000. 
“These grants establish our brand promise — that with every book sold at Better World Books, we support liter­acy both here in the United States and around the world,” David Murphy, president and CEO of Better World Books, said. “We wanted to set a pro­gram for our major Non-Profit Literacy Partners (NPLP) that was highly targeted.” 
Murphy said the RCLC had to provide detailed information about how it was going to spend the money and how it was going to track the progress toward its goals. 

“Better World Books has a long history with the Robinson Center. It’s local to our ware­house — almost right in our backyard — and they do a lot of great work in the communi­ty,” Murphy said. “They were the first NPLP that we ever supported and they have a multitude of very good pro­grams.” 
Jennifer Knapp Beudert, manager of the RCLC, said the summer Shakespeare program will serve 20 to 25 children between the ages of 10 and 17. 
“They will receive instruc­tion in the essentials of theatre through a variety of work­shops,” she said. “Students will spend the morning partici­pating in these workshops and then rehearse for ‘Romeo and Juliet,’ which is the focal work of the whole program, in the afternoon.” 
Knapp Beudert said the stu­dent ensemble would lead toduction of “Romeo and Juliet,” including the process of designing posters, set and costumes. 
“Through this summer Shakespeare initiative, RCLC is addressing the need for a safe summer and after school envi­ronment for youth while rec­ognizing the positive educa­tional assets that are gained by theatre studies,” she said. 
According to Knapp Beudert, the RCLC has also offered Shakespeare camps during the past two summers. 
“With the award of this grant from Better World Books, we will now be able to offer summer Shakespeare for the third year in a row, so that the Robinson Shakespeare Company will remain active year-round,” she said. 


Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 8, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


College to announce Woman of the Year recipient 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary’s Editor  w e l l a n n o u n c e t h i s y e a r ’s Woman of the Year.” T h e C o u n c i l h a s b e e n  promoting. “ T h e q u e s t i o n s i n c l u d e d some back story on the nomi­ was so strong that we felt it was important to recognize e a c h o f t h e i n d i v i d u a l s . ”  empowering and refreshing to see these women succeed on a daily basis, not only in aca­ 
a c c e p t i n g  n o m i n a t i o n s  nee  as  well specifically how  T h e  d i n n e r  i s  h e l d  e v e r y  demics, but in mind and spir- 
To recognize and honor the  throughout the semester from  this nominee directly affected  M ar c h  as  p ar t of Wome n ’s  it.”  
i n f l u e n c e  a n d  w o r k  o f  a  students, and Smith said this  t h e e x p e r i e n c e  History Month,  S m i t h  a l s o  s a i d  t h e s e  
female faculty member, staff  year  a  very high number of  of the student,”  Smith said.  women  are  not  just rec og- 
m e m b e r o r a d m i n i s t r a t o r, S t u d e n t A c a d e m i c C o u n c i l  faculty and staff were recom­mended.  Smith said. SAC then has a  “Therefore, it seems  B e c a u s e Saint Mary’s is  nized for what they provide for students, but also for their  
(SAC) will hold a reception a n d d i n n e r t o d a y, L a u r a Smith, student body president and president of SAC, said.  “We received a number of terrific nominations which made it very difficult for the Wo m e n H o n o r i n g Wo m e n  com mi tte e tha t r e v i e w s a l l o f the nominations i n o r d e r t o  fit that we recognize the very women that we as Saint Mary’s  a w o m e n ’s College, Smith said the award i s e s p e c i a l l y  individual accomplishments as well. “ M o s t im p o r t a n t l y, t h e s e women are being recognized  
This is an annual event held by SAC. “Women Honoring Women  C o m m i t t e e t o c h o o s e t h e recipient of this year’s award, but that is just another testa­ choose a recipi­e n t f o r Wo m e n of the Year.  students aspire to be.”  i m p o r t a n t t o this campus. “ O n e o f t h e  b ecause they hav e d emon-s t r a t e d a h i g h d e g r e e o f dedication to their career at  
is a way for students to rec­ ment to the fact that we are  “After discus- key proponents  S a i nt M a r y’s, a n d t h r o u g h  
o g ni z e an y f e ma l e f a c u l t y,  blessed to have such a sup­ s i o n , a p r i v a t e  Laura Smith  is to empower  their actions, have committed  
staff, or administrator that has made a lasting impact on  portive and enriching learn­ing community here at Saint  ballot was cast, and the Woman  SAC president  t h e m i n d s o f the students as  themselves to the advance-m e n t o f w o m e n ’s a c h i e v e - 
t h e i r  e x p e r i e n c e  a t  S a i n t  Mary’s,” Smith said.  of the Year  was  i n d i v i d u a l s ,  m e n t s , ”  S m i t h  s a i d .  
Ma ry’s,” Smit h said. “Th is  A c c o r d i n g  t o  S m i t h , S A C  selected,” Smith  a n d  a s  The dinner and reception will  
y e a r,  S t u d e n t  A c a d e m i c  sent out forms to all students  said. “This year, our  commit- w o m e n , ”  S m i t h  s a i d .  be held from 7 to 9 p.m. in  
C o u n c i l  w i l l  b e  h o s t i n g  a  i n  J a n u a r y  t h a t  a s k e d  f o r  tee chose to invite all of the  “Therefore, it  seems  fit that  Stapleton Lounge.  
reception and dinner to honor  nominations and details about  individuals who  were  nomi­ we recognize the very women  
all of the  women  who  were  the member of the Co llege  nated to attend the dinner as  that  we  as  Saint Mary’s stu- Contact Ashley Charnley at  
n o m in ate d b y s t u d e nts,  a s  community the student  was  honorees. Each application  d e n t s  a s p i r e  t o  b e .  I t  i s  acharn01@saintmarys.edu  

Libya 
continued from page 1 
grew until it violently erupted in several Libyan cities in February’s “Day of Rage.” 
“What’s happened is not directly connected to what’s happened in Egypt, except that initially the people who protested against Gadh afi were inspired by the resis­tors in Egypt,” Cortright said. “A broad wave of nonviolent dem­ocratic movement across the region has deteriorated to vio­lence.” 
Though rebel movements ini­tially formed together as an antigovernment opponent in Benghazi, The New York Times said, unrest has spread uncon­trollably and unpredictably. As of now, several rebel groups have taken the eastern half of Libya, leaving refugees to sur­vive or escape to Tunisia. 
“More recently we’ve seen it turn into a civil war. The rebels resisting are arming them­selves and the regime is inter­vening with massive military force and air strikes,” Cortright said. “There are reports of many being killed as the Gadhafi forces have retaken one or two towns from the rebels.” 
The U.S. now faces a difficult choice, he said. U.S. has to decide whether to intervene on its own account or continue to act with the U.N. 

“It’s one thing to protect civil­ians from massacres and another to intervene in a civil war,” Cortright said. “We should only act if we have the support of the U.N.” 
The next step, Cortright said, is to maintain the political legitimacy of the operation. 
“We should only move for­ward with U.N. Security Council approval and if we can, the support of the Arab League. Look at the international secu­rity implications,” he said. “Whatever happens in Libya will influence how the other democratic rebellions unfold.” 
The U.S. should not intervene on the ground with troops, he said. Imposing a no-fly zone and aiding refugees with humanitarian efforts are of pri­mary importance. 
Cortright said a no-fly zone would communicate to other nations the isolation of the Gadhafi regime. 
These sanctions increase motivation for senior com­manders and military to join forces with the people of Libya. Ultimately, this would destroy the regime. 
Beyond U.N.-supported actions, what happens in Libya will depend on the nature of rebel forces. 
“We don’t know yet who these rebels are. They need to make clear their intentions,” he said. “We need to know if they’re fighting for human rights and democracy.” 



Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Inn 
continued from page 1 
the same thing happen today? I’m not quite so sure.” Beirne said Notre Dame con­trols The Morris Inn. 
“I’m an employee of the University, just like anyone else is,” he said. “It’s a self-operated hotel, so [Notre Dame] has 100 percent control over the hotel.” 
Like many University employ­ees on campus, Beirne said the warm staff is what separates the hotel from other lodging options in the area. 
“It is the hospitality of the employees themselves [that is special]. That is the key,” he said. “People genuinely like working here, and they love being part of Notre Dame. That hospitality comes to every person who walks through the front door.” 
Beirne said interaction with guests is the most rewarding experience for those Inn employ­ees. 
“It really is fun. It is exciting to plan for a big weekend and event, and it is even more fun when everyone leaves, shakes your hand and says they had a good time,” he said. 
As a hotel director, Beirne said he wears a lot of hats on the job. He said a lot of what makes a hotel employee successful is training on the job. 
“I think it is a great career. There is a lot to learn. As a hotel manager or director as they call it here, you get to use a lot of your skills,” Beirne said. “You get to use human resource skills, accounting skills, marketing skills, food and beverage skills.” 
Beirne said though the hotel does employ some students, their busy schedules often necessitate part-time positions. 
“[We don’t have] as many as some other places. We use them more in a support role as opposed to a permanent position because with a [student’s] sched­ule, to give us some time is the time we need,” he said. “I don’t think it would be fair to ask stu­dents to work every football weekend.” 

Beirne said the Inn experiences highest occupancies on Commencement and football weekends. At those times, rooms aren’t often available to the pub­lic, he said. 
McKenna Hall, across the street from The Morris Inn, is used as a conference center during football weekends, Beirne said. 
“What [a football weekend] brings is the Advisory Councils for all of the different colleges,” he said. 
Notre Dame students are always welcome in the Inn, Beirne said. He said students often don’t know the hotel and its restaurants are open to students for business. 
“We’d like to think students don’t feel they can’t come through the Inn,” Beirne said. “A lot of students walk past the place and wonder what goes on in there.” 
Beirne said as students don’t frequent the Inn, the hotel main­tains a sense of mystery, even beyond graduation. 
“I think there is a certain mys­tique about it, and I think it has always been that way. I hear alumni come back and say they didn’t even know they could stay there,” he said. “It is kind of interesting that way.” 


Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, March 8, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We are one 

My Contentious Politics course took an unexpected turn last Wednesday after­noon. Instead of meeting, like we regu­larly do, in Debartolo 214 to discuss cur­rent controversial events, we met in a small seminar room at the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies to engage in an infor­mal conversation with an undergradu­ate Palestinian stu­dent, now living in Jordan. “What would I learn from a stu­dent my age?” I Maria Fernandez thought to myself as I walked to the Kroc Assistant building. I had never Scene Editor met anyone from Jordan before, which seemed really interesting, but what else was I to expect from this casu­al conversation among us students? 

To my surprise, this hour-and-a-half long exchange of ideas and experiences did not only show me diverse perspec­tives on how to approach this contentious conflict, but it most importantly remind­ed me of something I have always been amazed by and many times tend to for­get or take for granted: we are one. 
There we were, 14 classmates and I, listening attentively to our guest student. All of us came from different states, nations, cultures and backgrounds; yet, we could understand and relate to each other’s opinions and experiences perfect­ly. In contrast to the Israeli-Palestinian hostility and lack of comprehension between both groups, our college experi­ence is marked by friendly interactions with people from different upbringings and parts of the world. Every day our relationships become more and more diverse and globalized. 
However odd this might sound, my iPod is great evidence of my continuous interactions with different groups of peo­ple since I came to Notre Dame. Coming from the small Caribbean island of Puerto Rico, my iPod was initially filled with Shakira, Daddy Yankee, Enrique Iglesias and Ricky Martin songs. I was satisfied with my music selections and thought I had more than enough songs to choose from and listen to. 
Nevertheless, as my fun and busy col­lege days and months go by, I keep meet­ing wonderful people from around the world and keep updating my iPod con­stantly. My playlists are now composed of peculiar but great mixtures of “salsa,” “merengue” and “reggeaton” with some European techno, pop, R&B and country rhythms. I share some of my Spanish tunes with my friends from the states and they keep me updated with new Ke$ha, Drake, John Mayer and Taylor Swift songs. This continuous interaction and sharing of ideas, experiences and, in this case, songs with people from all dif­ferent types of backgrounds reflect what our college experience is all about. We may sometimes take for granted these amazing opportunities of getting to know others and getting out of our familiar comfort zones. But, it is in occasions like my recent politics class discussion with a Palestinian student that I realize and remember how lucky I am to be in a diverse campus where I can learn so much and create long-lasting friendships with people from varied cultures, nation­alities, and religions. 
In the end, all of our differences recon­cile and we are able to combine our par­ticular cultures and our original thoughts and beliefs with those of our new class­mates and friends, just as the varied mix of songs in my iPod reveals. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

Collective bargaining benefits all workers 
Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that “Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his [or her] interests.” In the U.S., we seem to have forgotten that the ability to bar­gain collectively 
Liz Furman 
is an internation­ally recognized 

Guest Columnist 
right of all peo­ple, rich or poor, in the public or private sector. While work­ers depend on employers for wages, employers depend on workers for the labor that produces the goods and services that create profit. The two parties are co­dependent. Therefore, the working class is an indispensible part of our economic sys­tem and should have the ability to voice its needs and concerns in the only legal form available: unionization. Collective bargain­ing allows both workers and employers to have a voice, pursue their interests, and come to a compromise. Sounds like democracy to me. 
Unions do not simply seek higher wages and benefits; they give workers a voice in the workplace and a sense of dignity. Having a voice changes the relationship between workers and employers from exploitative to mutually beneficial, where both parties respect each other and are properly represented. Without the ability to bargain collectively, the power to make decisions lies exclusively with the employ­er. We have allowed the corporate world to dominate the discourse about labor for so long that it now sounds absurd to claim that workers should have a voice, which, fifty years ago, was a basic element of society. 
One of the central arguments in the cur­rent labor battle is that public sector union workers make excessive salaries in com­parison to private sector workers. The pri­vate sector is currently suffering from stagnating wages, decreasing benefits and increasing insurance costs, while the pub­lic sector seems to avoid much of this struggle. Private sector taxpayers blame the public sector employees for this dis­crepancy. They are angry because they are relatively worse off, an understand­able emotion. 
However, the blame is misplaced. Public sector workers are not the cause of lower wages, fewer benefits, and poor working conditions in the private sector. Taking away public sector benefits and collective bargaining is not going to create better jobs for those in the private sector and is not going to grow the middle class. It will only divide the working class. It will also potentially decrease wage standards for all Americans as a higher percentage of unionization in a city often leads to upward pressure on wages and working conditions for all workers, including non­union. Creating a conflict between work­ers convinces the working class to vote directly against its economic interests and takes the blame away from the decision makers that create and maintain low-
wage jobs. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A human right 
To the LGBT community, 
I support you, not because of what the Bible or religious texts say or don't say, but because you are human beings and should have every right to freedom and love as I do. 
“In itself, homosexuality is as limiting as heterosexuality: the ideal should be to be capable of loving a woman or a man; either, a human being, without feeling fear, restraint, or obligation.” –– Simone de Beauvoir 
Sincerely, 
Blair Arbuckle 
freshman Cavanaugh Mar. 7 




Credit due 
Fiddler's Hearth also donated food to the Dance Marathon this weekend. Terry Meehan, owner of Fiddler's, attended the event, and was very generous by donating sliders and veggie trays for the last meal. I just wanted to make sure they received some recognition. They were missing from the article posted about Dance Marathon this 
weekend. Thank you, 

POLL OF THE WEEK 
What are your plans for SpringBreak? I'm going home 
Somewhere warms and sunny with friends Going on a service trip Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
Kayleigh Young 
senior Opus Hall Mar. 7 

Both union and non-union workers must come together and send the message that collective bargaining is not only a human right, but is necessary to grow the middle class and create good jobs. Workers have to stop blaming each other for their eco­nomic hardships. Weakening collective bargaining rights of the public sector is not the answer; strengthening private sector rights is. Unions are the only legal repre­sentation for workers to bargain for their fair share of the wealth, which comes from the profits of the goods and services that they produce. As the percentage of the workforce that is unionized continues to fall, real wages are decreasing, the middle class is shrinking, and the wealth gap con­tinues to expand. Unions are the last group of organized people consistently backing the average person. They are fighting for the rights of the working class, recognizing that workers are not com­modities; they are people with voices that should be heard, and they have the right to bargain collectively. As Pope John Paul II wrote in “Laboren Exercens,” unions “[A]re indeed a mouthpiece for the strug­gle for social justice, for the just rights of working people in accordance with their individual professions.” 
Liz Furman is a senior majoring in political science and Peace Studies. She can be reached at efurman@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Super athletes 
Maybe the most important sporting event of our generation occurred Sunday, and just about no one noticed. Once in a lifetime the world is graced with the presence of an athlete that shifts the entire sporting landscape. Our world has been graced with two of these athletes. Rachel Alexandra and Curlin dominated the horse racing world like Alexander the Great dominated the known world. What do these two athletes with no equal do when they are retired from the days of competition? They make babies. That’s right, soon our world will be blessed with the love-child of these two great race horses. No longer will Earth be called the Home of Humans, but rather Earth will be referred to as Home of Super Curlin Mega-Alexandra, and a couple people. This got us thinking, what if humans were to do this? Imagine the possibilities. Albert Pujols and Jennie Finch? Move over Cy Young and Barry Bonds, we got a new record holder. LeBron James and Lisa Leslie? I’m thinking we have a 40-time consecutive MVP coming. Roger Federer and Serena Williams? Grand Slams would not even begin to describe their dom­inance. Tiger Woods and Annika Sörenstam? Future average 55 under par on a 70 par course (Yeah, that’s 15 strokes on 18 holes). The possibilities are endless. Just think if we can have real Coke taste with zero calories, then why isn’t this possible. We’re looking at you scientists. Until then I will refuse to watch these so-called greatest athletes in the world struggle with their weak genetic com­binations. I want super athletes and I want them now. 

Danny Kinasz 
sophomore Keough Hall Mar. 7 


Julian DiMelis 
sophomore off campus Mar. 7 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Ask yourself whether you are
happy and you cease to be so.” 
John Stuart Mill British philosopher and civil servant 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 8, 2011 page 7 
Green madness 
Sunday March 13, 7p.m. Where will you be? I for one will be glued to a TV somewhere in SoCal anxiously await­ing the announcement of ND’s NCAA tournament seeding. That’s right, the GreenMan is obsessed with The Greenman something other than the environment –– college bas­ketball. Since I’ve been finding myself checking ESPN.com more than my email, I thought an examination of the green aspects of March Madness might be an appropriate topic for this col­umn. 
I’d like to start by pointing out that some of the NCAA Selection Committee’s bracketing principles are actually inherently green. Specifically, one of the key principles for slotting teams in the bracket is that an effort must be made to place higher-ranked teams in “geographically compatible” locations for the first two rounds of the tournament. This not only makes it easier for high-seeded teams’ fans to attend games, but also allows them to reduce their environmental impact because less distance traveled means lower emissions. The committee will also grant geographic preference to a team regardless of seed, by looking at where a team has been placed in the previous five years so trying to avoid moving a team out of its natural geo­graphic region an inordinate number of times. 
Given these two conditions for geo­graphic preference, Notre Dame should without a doubt be placed close to home this year. For one thing, we ought to be very high on the seed list (though several other regional teams are up there with us to compete for the same spots –– Ohio State, Pitt and Purdue). Second, let’s review ND’s first-round sites from the last five years: New Orleans, Denver and who could forget (though we might want to) Spokane. It’s high time we were close to home. 
Right now Notre Dame looks poised to claim a 2-seed in Chicago, which is where “Bracketology” expert Joe Lunardi currently predicts we’ll go. However, it’s not outside the realm of possibility that, probably pending a Big East tournament title, we could make a very serious case for earning a 1­seed, which would put us in Cleveland. 
All due respect to Cleveland, but I hope we’re in Chicago. Why? Two words: mass transit. Those of us com­ing back to the Bend early from break can hop on the train to Chicago for $11 each way to see the Irish play on Friday and Sunday. You can’t say the same for Cleveland, which is a three and half hour drive away. This drive is about six times as carbon-intensive as taking the train to Chicago, according to TerraPass’s carbon footprint calcu­lator. And then there’s also the fact that approximately 75 percent of our student body is from “a suburb of Chicago” (figure unconfirmed), which means we could have a great turnout with people who are already within 40 miles of the arena. 
But, regardless of whether we start in Chicago or Cleveland, we’ll definite­ly have to fly to follow the team to Houston for the Final Four. When this happens, as an eco-conscious fan, I will most likely assuage the guilt of my “fanprint” (carbon footprint associated with fandom) by buying carbon offsets for my travel emissions. Carbon offset companies will calculate the carbon emissions of a trip, taking into account distance and mode of transportation, and then allow individuals to compen­sate for these emissions by donating money to support a carbon-reducing project like a wind farm. There’s a wide range of companies out there, so be careful and look for groups who are accredited by the Better Business Bureau, like TerraPass. 
A final green thought: much is said each March about the dramatic increase in time-wasting at work, but what about the dramatic increase in paper-wasting? As someone who typi­cally makes three brackets each year (one to root for, one to be realistic, and one to capitalize on crazy upset scor­ing rules), I know firsthand how quick­ly paper waste can accumulate during the few days after Selection Sunday as we try to refine the perfect bracket. However, with so many online bracket competitions available now that allow you to manage your own pool and even tailor the scoring method to your per­sonal tastes, it’s hard to see why any­one would want to go to the effort of grading and scoring brackets manually anymore. 

Plus, the timing of spring break makes turning in paper brackets to a “bracketmaster” highly unlikely, so I suggest we take all this opportunity to go completely paperless in our brack­eting endeavors. And once you go paperless you never go back. Or some­thing like that. 
The GreenMan is an anonymous eco-conscious observer of life at Notre Dame, providing environmental commentary and advice to the campus community since 2010. Feel free to email your environmental living ques­tions to the GreenMan at askthegreen­man@gmail.com 
UWIRE 

State governments should support teachers 
Like many states in the union, Wisconsin is facing budget issues as a result of the economic recession. To mitigate the budget crisis within his state, Gov. Scott Walker is attempting to pass a 
budget Emerald Editorial Board 
bill that would Oregon Daily Emerald effec­
tively remove the collective-bargaining rights of public employees. It should be noted that before the bill’s propos­al, Wisconsin teachers agreed to take pay cuts in light of the state’s poor economy as long as they were able to negotiate the cuts as a group. 
Public school teachers play a crucial role in American society. Performing noble work for mediocre compensa­tion, they help shape the future. Despite curriculum requirements and a lack of public resources, they still manage to empower and enrich the minds of students. They educate those who cannot afford a private education, and they pave the road for students toward new opportunities to better themselves and their communities. Some of teachers work in dangerous inner-city neighborhoods, and others deal with special needs students who require a large amount of time and effort. They preserve democracy and prevent our country from becoming a plutocracy. To deny their importance would be unpatriotic in every sense of the word. 
Apparently Walker does not agree. Walker has a stark agenda influenced by private donor David Koch, whose advertising campaign centers around the current highest salary of a Wisconsin school teacher — more than $80,000 — and the economic impacts on the state. The campaign puts a con­notation of “sinful” on teachers’ nine-month work year, and it depicts their lifestyle as one of luxury on the tax­payer’s dime. In addition to the cam­paign, Wisconsin’s capital has been accused of blocking a pro-union web­site. What’s more, members of union movement American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations continue to be labeled as “cop-haters” by conservative pun­dits. 
Though the bill would cut teachers’ salaries and their right to negotiate, it would simultaneously allot new funds for transportation services that are outsourced to private companies. Since the bill’s proposal, 14 Democratic sen­ators have left the state in an effort to protest and keep the bill from being passed in the state legislature. 
Walker said he would not talk to anyone from the press, but the editor of the online Buffalo Beast made a prank this week that led to new devel­opments in the story. 
Pretending to be David Koch and making up a phony story about losing his phone, the editor was granted access to Walker. During the conversa­tion, Walker said he was threatening the 14 senators with direct deposit halts, arrest warrants and worker lay­offs. He referred to the one approach­able democrat as “not one of us,” and openly responded to one of the editor’s statements with, “You’re not talking to any of these democrat bastards, are you?” 
Since the online fiasco, more and more protests have emerged through­out the state of Wisconsin. The Wisconsin police are standing in soli­darity with the workers, refusing to obey Walker’s order to guard the Capitol building. As a state, they are demonstrating the importance of unions and collective bargaining rights. 

If the protestors’ demands are ignored and the 14 missing senators are blackmailed into returning to the state, the bill will likely pass within the Wisconsin Senate, given the Republican majority. This could cause a domino effect of similar legislation throughout the country. 
Public schools have faced continuous budget cuts since the turn of the mil­lennium — from elementary schools to universities. If Walker’s bill is passed, it will not only hurt Wisconsin teach­ers, but it will also discourage working for public schools nationwide. While places like India are investing in edu­cation, Wisconsin is demonstrating that America has other priorities. For the well-being of the public sector, all measures should be taken to prevent Walker’s bill from being passed. 
This editorial originally ran in the Mar. 7 edition of the Oregon Daily Emerald, serving the University of Oregon. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The Observer 




Scene
page 8 Tuesday, March 8, 2011 
‘Arthur’ starring Russel Brand, Helen Mirren and Jennifer Garner; In theaters April 8 


By COURTNEY COX 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Arthur, the remake of the 1980s film of the same name, has big shoes to fill. The trailer gives every impression that this film will be just as successful as the original. 
Russell Brand stars as a bizarre heir with childish hobbies (like driving around the Batmobile in a genuine Batman cos­tume). He is offered the decision between marrying a straight-laced American (Jennifer Garner — the epitome of straight-laced typecasting) and losing all of his inheritance. 
He originally does not want to marry her because they have nothing in common. But he goes off to New York with her any­way because he realizes he cannot live without the money. 
He ultimately meets a woman who oper­ates on the same spontaneous wavelength that he does and (surprise) they presum­ably fall in love. 
The story is a bit cliché, but the best part of the trailer is Brand’s relationship with his butler played by Helen Mirren. The two have a mentoring relationship that seemingly gives the story heart. 
The trailer is filled with typical Brand humor, meaning he is really just humor­ous because he’s saying everything in an almost unbelievable British accent. Ultimately the trailer seems to show that the film will be just as lovable as the origi­nal. 

Contact Courtney Cox at 
ccox3@nd.edu 

‘Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides’ starring Johnny Depp, Penélope Cruz and Ian McShane; In theaters May 20  
replaced with a notorious pirate legend By CLAIRE STEPHENS and his daughter, played by Penelope Scene Writer Cruz. (A serious love interest for Jack?) Long shots of beautiful, dangerous, Instead of the Kraken, Davy Jones, the tropical places flash on the screen back undead fishy crew and the world’s end, to back. Close-up shots of expect to see Black Beard, seductive ships. Medium shots of characters mermaids, zombies (really) and the with quizzical or awed expressions on Fountain of Youth. However, there are their faces. Voice over narration giving still the same promises of sword fights, you the newest adventure of always-open sea dangers, navigating through colorful Jack Sparrow. Captain Jack island jungles, hilarious and character-Sparrow, that is. A predictable next istic outbursts from Jack and a hot installment or an entirely new leading lady. A promising summer “Pirates?” Of course Johnny Depp, an movie — after all, who doesn’t want to older Geoffrey Rush, the crew and watch a Disney movie about pirates other familiars from past movies of the before hitting the beach? trilogy are attending. But now with the striking absence of Kiera Knightley or Contact Claire Stephens at Orlando Bloom, Will and Elizabeth are cstephe4@nd.edu  



‘Something Borrowed’ starring Ginnifer Goodwin, Kate Hudson and Colin Egglesfield; In theaters May 6 
good-girl Rachel, including the love of 
By ADRIANA PRATT 

Rachel’s life, Dex (Egglesfield). Turns 
out Dex might be just as in love with 
It’s the most wonderful time of the Rachel, but he’s already gone too far year: chick-flick season! Catch a last with Darcy to turn back — or has he? glimpse of hope before finals com-One night leads to a little too intimate of mence by seeing “Something an encounter between Rachel and Dex Borrowed,” a romantic comedy about and suddenly everything is turned two frenemies and their intertwining upside down. romances. The film, starring Ginnifer Enter Ethan (Krasinski), the cute Goodwin, Kate Hudson, John Krasinski tells-it-like-it-is confidant who holds and Colin Egglesfield, promises to be Rachel accountable for what she wants. entertaining, lighthearted and a sweet Judging by the trailer, it also looks like dose of eye candy — all that’s necessary he could be the perfect catalyst to bring for a quality rom-com. Darcy back down to earth. Could a pos-
The trailer highlights the affection sible romantic switch-up be in the 
and underlying tension between diva works? Hit theatres May 6 to find out. Darcy (Hudson) and her bff Rachel (Goodwin). Darcy clearly gets every-Contact Adriana Pratt at thing she wants, often at the expense of apratt@nd.edu 
Associate Scene Editor 


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 




Scene
Tuesday, March 8, 2011 page 9 

‘Sucker Punch’ starring Emily Browning, Vanessa Hudgens and Abbie Cornish; In theaters March 25  
the trailer for “Sucker Punch” match up By KEVIN NOONAN to the high level of marketing shown by Scene Writer these previous films? The answer is sim-The trailer for Zack Snyder’s latest ple: It doesn’t. The imagery is confusing film, “Sucker Punch,” is held up to some and the plot it tries to present is all over high expectations. Ignoring his most the place and, if it’s plainly obvious in the recent film, “Legend of the Guardians: trailer you can’t act, it doesn’t give much The Owls of Ga’Hoole,” because he prob-inspiration for the full-length film. ably wishes he could, trailers for To top it all off, there’s Carla Gugino Snyder’s films have been, in a word, (Ari Gold’s female agent nemesis in awesome. “Dawn of the Dead?” “Entourage”) trying to pull off some sort Surprisingly, terrifyingly awesome. of Russian accent. And frankly, it just “Watchmen?” Depressingly, beautifully sounds irritating. awesome. “300?” Freaking awesome. Recommendation? Wait for somebody These trailers implied a plot, gave else to see it first and ask them before flashes of intensity but also hints that the investing any money in a ticket, because characters were more than set pieces in this one just looks dumb. the films, and they used music to illus­trate the tone and mood of the movie. Contact Kevin Noonan at The question then becomes, how does knoonan2@nd.edu  

‘Thor’ starring Chris Hemsworth, Anthony Hopkins and Natalie Portman; In theaters May 6  
By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL “Clash of the Titans,” the trailer draws Scene Writer its viewers in and doesn’t let go. Maybe it’s the 3-D nature of the film. “Thor” does not seem to be doing Maybe it’s Natalie Portman’s superior anything that other super or mythical acting skills to Gemma Arterton. hero movies have not done before. Maybe it’s Chris Hemsworth’s silky The monsters appear recycled, the blond tresses. story mundane and much of the acting Whatever it is, director Kenneth subpar. In fact, this actually seems Branagh effectively captures the atten­like a Norse remake of “Clash of the tion of audiences with his entertaining Titans.” It has all the ingredients. The trailer. He depicts enough action and attractive male lead must fight to save violence to ensnare the male clientele, mankind. The attractive male lead while showing off enough of tries to win the affection of the attrac­Hemsworth’s abs and the growing love tive female lead on his quest. story to melt the hearts of females. Ultimately, the hero finds himself suc-Thor and his hammer may be formu­cessful on both counts. laic, but they are intoxicating. And yet, despite the formulaic nature of the movie and despite its Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at similarities to the epic flop that was modonne5@nd.edu  



By JORDAN GAMBLE good preview without spilling out the whole movie, although anyone 
Scene Editor 

who has read the book by Sara A love story about the sun -Guren probably already knows the 
browned Edward Cullen and a plot anyway. The final shot of Marlene -Dietrich -y Reese Robert Pattinson, Witherspoon and 
Witherspoon, all set in a circus? the elephant in a rocking railroad Sure looks like an intriguing set-car has the exact right amount of up. The trailer for “Water for 
eye-candy and mystery. Here’s to 
Elephants” also has period cloth-hoping the film lives up to the ing, a tinkly music-box score, fore-mood of the previews. shadowings of “the worst circus disaster” and an elephant. Those Contact Jordan Gamble at ingredients right there make for a jgamble@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 8, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 


Men’s volleyball gains national ranking 
Cyclers battle sleet, hail in Ohio State road races; Equestrian team qualifies two riders for regionals, 
Special to The Observer 
The men’s volleyball team climbed to its highest national ranking in several years with a No. 7 rank in this week’s poll. The Irish recently defeated the past two national champions, including last year’s champion and current No. 1, Ohio State. Led by senior Mark Iandolo, the club is prepar­ing for a run at the national title next month. 
Cycling 
Ohio State hosted the MWCCA road races Saturday on a rolling 15-mile course. Sophomore Brian Hurley competed first for Notre Dame. In his debut weekend, Hurley rode well and finished mid-pack. 
Freshman Josh Corcoran, grad­uate student Andrew O’Donnell, and sophomore Michael Tonzi represented ND in the Men’s ‘C’ field. Tonzi crossed the line first in his group and fifteenth overall. O’Donnell did not finish far behind while Corcoran also finished in the top half of the field of 60. 
Graduate student Douglas Ansel and sophomore Joe Magro rode for the Irish in the Men’s ‘A’ cate­gory. Starting towards the rear, Magro passed much of the field on the ascent and crested the hill in the front group. As the tempera­ture dropped into the thirties and driving rain turned to sleet and hail, riders strung out all over the course. 
Magro settled into the second group of eight and scored more nationals qualification points with a finish of seventeeth overall. After two weekends he now leads the D-II conference standings by one point over Maxwell Anderson of Wisconsin Platteville. 
Equestrian 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s equestrian team traveled to Chicago this past weekend to com­pete in its first show of the semes­ter against UW-Madison, UW-Lacrosse, UW-Milwaukee, Northwestern, Augustana and Iowa State. The team took third place on Saturday with 28 points while Northwestern took second with 33 points and Wisconsin-Lacrosse took the top spot with 38 points. On Sunday, however, Notre Dame/ Saint Mary’s was the high-point team with 38 points and Wisconsin-Madison came in second with 32 points. 
Individually, the team excelled on both Saturday and Sunday. The show started with Open Fences. Sophomore Mia Genereux had an excellent performance, coming in second place. Freshman and first-time competitor Stephanie Nearhos took a solid second in Intermediate Fences. Despite the large number of com­petitors in Novice Fences, fresh­man Sarah Dalton trotted away in fourth place. 
The Irish and Belles held their own in each of the flat classes. Mia Genereux swept the Open class with a first-place finish, also mak­ing her high point rider for the day. Junior Victoria Scheid took first place in Intermediate Flat. Whitney Preisser and Amanda Leon delivered a one-two punch by taking first and second respec­tively, in Novice flat. Senior Nicole Oberschmied got fourth place while also qualifying for regionals. Senior Laura Powell placed third in Advanced Walk-Trot-Canter. To finish up the day, senior Megan Daugherty received a strong sec­ond in her Walk-Trot class. 
An even better day was to follow on Sunday, as Preisser and Walsh qualified for regionals — with Walsh qualifying in two events — and Nearhos finished first in two different classes of competition. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 
This weekend the Notre Dame women’s ice hockey team closed its season with a pair of games at the University of Illinois. In the first game, the Irish played well, but fell to the Ilini by a score of 3­0. 
In the second game, the Irish fought back from Friday’s defeat and tied Illinois 1-1. The first period ended with no score as the Irish played strong defense, led by senior Amber Rosenberg. 
In the second period, the Illini scored on a power play, putting them up by one goal. However, in the third period, the Irish came back with one minute and 41 sec­onds left on the clock. Junior Lauren Miller scored the goal that tied the game for good. 
Ultimate 
The Notre Dame women’s ulti­mate team ventured to St. Louis, Mo., for the Midwest Throwdown, a highly competitive tournament consisting of 32 women’s teams. 
The women’s A team first saw action against Colorado College. The team fought hard but eventu­ally fell, 9-2. In the second round of pool play against Washington, the A team traded points through­out the game, battling cold tem­peratures and heavy winds. The weather proved difficult to over­come, however, as the Irish lost, 9­6. 
In their final game of the day, Notre Dame faced rival Ohio State. Both teams attempted to capitalize on strong zone offense, with soph­omore Allie Hawkins finding gaps to catch the disk. Notre Dame fell to Ohio State 7-4, but endured through the entire game, trekking through heavy mud in adverse conditions. 
Notre Dame entered bracket play on Sunday against Iowa State. The women came out strong, with long downfield throws from seniors Molly Thompson and Kim Ford and solid long cuts from sophomore Kelly Taylor in an 11-8 loss. 
The A team finally claimed vic­tory against the B team of Carleton College, winning 10-6. They advanced in the ninth place bracket to play Minnesota. The women rallied back with three points in a row to tie the game at seven, the final point determining the outcome as the Irish fell 8-7. 
In their final match of the week­end, the women easily defeated Truman State with a score of 9-2, ending the tournament as the 11th place finishers. Both fresh­man Kelsey Fink and junior Vicke Hadlock played strong defense throughout the weekend. 
The Notre Dame women’s B team came out in their first official tournament of the season. They started off the day with pool play games against St. Olaf and Wisconsin B, falling 10-1 and 12­2, respectively. Their third game pinned the women against the B team of Carleton College, where they struggled to find cutter flow and lost 10-1. 
On Sunday, the women’s B team opened play against Kenyon. Sophomore Kat Wilson made great plays while freshman Taylor Roberts showcased her catching and throwing abilities. The Irish couldn’t quite seal the victory, los­ing 11-6 and moving on to play Hendrix. Although a close game, the women lost 7-4 and were highly determined to win their final match of the tournament. The B team did just that, defeating Kansas State 11-4, with strong cuts from sophomore Annie Flood and solid catches from newcomer and sophomore Betty Graham. 
The Notre Dame men’s ultimate team competed in the Midwest Throwdown in St. Charles, Mo., this weekend. The A team finished in a somewhat disappointing tie for ninth place in the 25 team tournament, with a 4-3 record for the weekend. The tournament began with a loss to Harding University, but the team rebound­ed to beat Missouri the following game. A comfortable win over Missouri S&T was followed by a loss to Wisconsin-Whitewater to end Saturday play. 
A loss to Grinnell in the pre­quarterfinal round ended Notre Dame’s championship hopes, but the Irish bounced back to beat Truman State in a come-from­behind 16-14 win. The team closed the weekend by defeating Nebraska to finish with an overall winning record. 
Freshman Connor Hanney played exceptionally well on Sunday, making big plays on both sides of the disc. Seniors Patrick Kozak, Jon Holland and Justin Browne gave Notre Dane experi­ence on the handler line, limiting turns while finding cutters down-field. On the defensive-Line, jun­iors Adam Barsella and Thom Kenealy and senior John Miller continuously shut down opposing cutters. Sophomores Colin Mackett, Dan Bolivar and Eric Bens all added contributions with accurate throws, timely cutting and shut down defense. The team will be back in action next week­end in Tennessee, and the follow­ing weekend at the College Southerns in Statesboro, Ga. 


Hornets’ Chris Paul sits out Bulls game; return unknown 
Associated Press New Orleans star Chris Paul sat out Monday’s game against the Chicago Bulls and is day to day while he recovers from a concussion. Coach Monty Williams said the four-time All-Star “looked a lot better than he did sitting on that floor” Sunday night in  Paul was injured in the third up to the crowd as he left the quarter against court. the Cavaliers, The Hornets when he lost the said Paul was ball driving into “You don’t take a hit fully conscious the lane and hit and never lost like that and not be in his forehead on any feeling any-some pain, but people Sessions’ right where. He was shoulder. Paul don’t realize how taken to the stayed on the Cleveland Clinic tough that kid is.” floor as trainers for precaution­ “He took that brace off his neck. He was watching film intently, as if he was playing the game. I know he’s in some pain. You don’t take a hit like that and not be in some pain, but people don’t realize how tough that kid is. He takes falls all the time, but last night was a different scenario.” Williams said he suffered sev- NBA is not immune. In recent weeks, Phoenix’s Vince Carter suffered lingering dizziness after a collision with teammate Channing Frye. Miami’s Mike Miller was seen in a wheelchair after a game against Indiana in which he took a hit to the head. “You see a lot of things that are going on with concussions, recently with football and all  
Cleveland, when he collided with Cavaliers guard Ramon Sessions.  from both teams attended to him. Paul, who was  Monty Williams New Orleans coach  ary tests, then rejoined the Hornets at the  eral concussions, but, “that was back before they started saying they were concussions. You had  the studies,” New Orleans’ Quincy Pondexter said. “You have to be really cautious when  
They next play Dallas on Wednesday. Paul was at the arena Monday but did not make  moving his legs and feet, was placed on a flat  arena and a c c o m p a n i e d them on their  a headache for two, three days, they were like, It’s not some­thing you want to play with.”  it comes to a concussion. It’s a serious thing. We’re all aware that it’s a case by case situation.  
himself available for comment before the game. Jarrett Jack started in his place.  board and a brace was put on his neck. He was wheeled to the locker room and gave a thumbs  charter flight to Chicago. “He looked good this morning in the meeting,” Williams said.  These days, head trauma is a hot-button topic in sports, par­ticularly in the NFL, but the  I hope he (Paul) gets back as soon as possible, but you need to be careful.”  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Future ARCHITECTS, ENGI-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? NEERS, TEACHERS, LAWYERS, WANTED FOR RENT BARDS, AMERICAN IDOLS and NOTICES Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has PERSONAL other studious Bohemians. many resources in place to assist you. Earn Extra Money OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Write your next soliloquy at one of If you or someone you care about SPRING BREAK SPECIAL-Taxi to our off campus homes. has been sexually assaulted, we If you or someone you love needs airport or Amtrak. Students needed ASAP. Best luxury options at Dublin can help. confidential support or assistance, 
Village, Irish Crossings, Oak Hill Check out: www.IrishDwellings.com please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. Earn up to $150 per day being a and North Shore Club. CES to find your home for summer For more information, visit Notre Group rates as low as $6ea. Mystery Shopper. Property Management. and/or fall semester 2011-2012 and Dames website: For more information, visit ND's 
beyond. website at: No Experience Required. Call 574-298-4206, http://csap.nd.edu 574-360-6480 
$200 credit to first month rent if http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Call 1-888-534-5008 www.cespm.info lease signed before spring break. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, March 8, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NCAA BASKETBALL 




Texas Tech coach Knight fred in third season 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas — Pat Knight sat in the Texas Tech locker room and lauded his bosses for the way they let him go after three disappointing sea­sons. 
It was, after all, different from the way his famous father was ousted at Indiana more than a decade ago. 
“It’s not an ugly situation,” Knight said. “I mean, we left on good terms. I’m glad it ended like that, especially after being part of the deal at Indiana. That was tough. But this is different. It’s business.” 
Texas Tech fired Knight on Monday, ending a disappointing tenure for a coach who failed to lead the Red Raiders to the NCAA tournament after taking over for his father in February 2008. He will coach the Red Raiders at this week’s Big 12 tournament and then step down. 
Knight said he was glad his dismissal came before the tour­nament because of all the potentially negative media a chatter about a pending firing. 
“It’s not just negative toward us. It’s negative to the universi­ty,” Knight said. “It’s not good, even for the guy that’s following … that’s why I just told them, when they told me, ‘You’re not going to get another year,’ let’s just get it out there now. It worked out for the best.” 
Knight is 50-60 in his first Division I coaching job and his third full year as head coach. He had only one winning season (19-16 in 2009-10) at Texas Tech. 
Sitting in the coaches’ portion of the Tech locker room, Knight told The Associated Press the situation felt “surreal.” 
“I would have loved to have another year to prove myself because of recruits we have coming in but I understand it’s all based on this year and stuff,” he said. “You just got to move on.” 
Knight seemed to know he might be dismissed in comments about the Red Raiders program following a 71-68 home loss to Colorado on Feb. 23. 
“We’ve lost seven games in the last minute,” he said then. “I’ve proven I can coach. I run a clean program, I don’t cheat, my players graduate and we have discipline. So if you don’t want me here there’s going to be someone else that wants me.” 
Knight met with Texas Tech president Guy Bailey early Monday and the announcement came a short time later. Bailey said it was time for a change. 
“I appreciate everything Pat has done for our university, not only as a head coach, but also throughout his career as an assistant,” Bailey said in a pre­pared statement. “I wish him success and the best moving for­ward.” 
Knight played under his father at Indiana University from 1991-1995 and later worked as a scout for the Phoenix Suns. He was an assistant for the CBA’s Connecticut Pride and was a coach in both the International Basketball Association and the 
U.S. Basketball League. 
Pat Knight was also at Indiana and at Akron University before joining his father as an assistant at Texas Tech in 2001. 
The elder Knight took the Red Raiders to the NCAA tourna­ment, but the success didn’t come as easily for his son. 
Knight’s team won just three Big 12 regular season games in 2008-09—one was against No. 9 Kansas—and he openly criti­cized officiating twice in a three-week span. The Big 12 slapped him with a public reprimand and a one-game suspension. 
In 2009, Texas Tech took 10 wins into its Big 12 opener. But one of the five losses included a 111-66 rout at Stanford, the third-worst beating in school history. 
Last season, the Red Raiders won just four regular-season conference games but got to the quarterfinals of the NIT, losing at Mississippi 90-87 in double overtime. At the beginning of the season, with six seniors on his squad, Knight said he didn’t deserve a contract extension if he did not get the team to the NCAA tournament. 
Going into the league tourna­ment, Texas Tech is 13-18 over-all and 5-11 in the Big 12. Associate head coach Chris Beard said he hasn’t had much time to reflect on the firing. 


“Right now, we really are just concerned about the players’ well being, concerned about our families, make sure everybody’s on the same page,” he said on the Big 12 coaches’ call. “That’s all you can do. We’re still the coaches here. We’ve got some guys we owe that to.” 
The Red Raiders, seeded 11th in the tournament in Kansas City, Mo., play No. 6 seed Missouri on Wednesday night. 
Beard said Knight’s possibly firing was never discussed with the players. 
“I can honestly tell you there hasn’t been a lot of sitting around wondering what’s going to happen,” Beard said. “Pat has been a great leader since he took over, and especially this year during a tough season. He’s been a real backbone through this. It’s been business as usual up until 9:25 this morning.” 


NFL 


Edwards prefers to remain in New York 
their side. The interest is 
Associated Press 
there on my side,” said 

NEW YORK — Braylon Edwards, who came to court Edwards has been a star for sporting a dark blue-gray suit the New York Jets, and he with a snappy red shirt, white wants to keep it that way. collar, crimson-and-white 
Edwards, a free agent, striped tie and red-and-white emphasized Monday that he polka-dotted pocket square. wants to stay with the team, “(We’ll) see what happens.” and he said he believed the Edwards also is waiting to interest was mutual. see what happens in his 
“If they give me the oppor-drunken-driving case. tunity, I definitely want to Police said they pulled come back,” Edwards said as Edwards over in Manhattan he left a Manhattan court-around 5 a.m. Sept. 21 house after a brief appear-because his luxury SUV’s win­ance in a drunken-driving dows were too dark. Officers case; he denies the charges. said his blood-alcohol level “And, one more time, I love was twice the legal limit. being a Jet.” He denies driving drunk. 
Edwards had 53 catches for He’s challenging the basis for 904 yards and seven touch-stopping him, the reliability of downs in his first full season the test and other aspects of with the Jets after they traded the case. Frankel told a court for him in October 2009. He Monday he planned to file made a key catch to set up the more papers contesting the Jets’ game-winning field goal breath tests. over the Indianapolis Colts in A judge didn’t rule Monday the final minute of this year’s on any of Edwards’ argu-AFC wild card playoff game. ments. He’s due back in court 
Free agents have been in May 16. limbo this offseason as the Prosecutors say his arrest NFL and the players’ union was lawful, the test was fine try to negotiate a new con-and there’s enough evidence tract. Teams and players are to support the charges. waiting to see what a new The most serious is a misde­agreement might look like. meanor punishable by up to a 
Edwards, 28, said he’d spo-year in jail. ken recently to Jets coach Rex When arrested, Edwards Ryan and general manager was on probation after plead-Mike Tannenbaum, conversa-ing no contest to misde­tions he described as just meanor aggravated disorderly catching up. conduct in a dust-up outside a 
“The interest is there on Cleveland nightclub. 
page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 8, 2011 
NCAA BASKETBALL 



Huskies advance to fnals 

Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Coming off one of the worst offensive games of her stellar career, Maya Moore wasn’t about to let it happen twice in a row. 
Moore scored 22 points and Kelly Faris added 19 to lead top-ranked Connecticut to a 75-51 win over Rutgers on Monday night in the semifi­nals of the Big East tourna­ment. 
“It definitely bothered me,” Moore said. “Not just the stats, but the way I played and the way our team played bothers me greatly. I tried not to make it for nothing and am glad we responded the way we did.” 
UConn (31-1) has won 19 straight games since losing to Stanford on Dec. 30 to snap the Huskies’ record 90­game winning streak. It will be the 21st time in the past 23 seasons that they are in the championship game. 
Coming off one of the worst 
offensive games of her career, Moore took only four minutes to eclipse the sea-son-low six points she had against Georgetown. 
Rutgers (19-12) had no answer for the three-time All-American. She helped break open a tight game, hit­ting two 3-pointers during an 11-0 run. 
“I wanted to run hard and establish our inside game,” Moore said. “That opens up things on the perimieter and gets me to the free throw line and gets me in a rhythm.” 
The Huskies will play either second-seeded DePaul or third seed Notre Dame in the championship game Tuesday night. UConn is try­ing to win its fourth straight Big East tournament champi­onship and 17th overall. It was the Huskies’ 80th con­secutive victory at home and 68th straight conference win. 

Their last loss in the con­ference was at Rutgers on Feb. 5, 2008. The Scarlet Knights also handed Connecticut its last home loss in the championship game of the 2007 Big East tourna­ment. 
Rutgers wasn’t able to mount much of a challenge on Monday night because of Moore. 
With Connecticut leading 18-14 midway through the first half, Moore sparked an 11-0 run to help UConn take control of the game. Moore started the spurt with a 3­pointer and then hit another after Faris had her own 3. 
Moore capped off the burst with two free throws to make it 29-14. She had outscored Rutgers 15-14 at that point. 
When she wasn’t scoring, she was passing to open teammates for baskets. With 5 seconds left in the half, Moore took the ball from the top of the key and passed to a wide-open Bria Hartley for a 3-pointer as the halftime buzzer sounded. The Huskies led 39-20 at the break. 
“When Maya’s making shots invariably she’s doing 15 other things on the floor,” UConn coach Geno Auriemma said. “You feel like you’re being over ­whelmed by her. It’s a 3, a jump shot, a post up. It looks like there are three or four of her out there.” 
Unlike in the Georgetown game on Sunday when the Huskies let a 20-point half­time lead slip to 11, they wouldn’t allow the Scarlet Knights to rally. 
The Scarlet Knights got within 16 on Erica Wheeler’s 3-pointer 2 minutes into the second half. UConn promptly answered with 14 of the next 16 points highlighted by a full-court pass from Faris to Moore for a layup and a three-point play by the sen­ior that made it 54-27. 
Rutgers didn’t get within 19 after that. 
“Big time players show up in big time games,” Rutgers coach C. Vivian Stringer said. “We didn’t deserve to be on the same floor playing with someone like Connecticut.” 
Wheeler finished with 17 points to lead the Scarlet Knights. 
“It’s always tough when you get knocked down, us being a young team we don’t understand what it takes to get up and fight,” Rutgers forward April Sykes said. “We showed we weren’t ready to face someone like UConn tonight. When you’re not scoring on offense and giving things on defense you’re never going to win.” 
About the only thing that went wrong for Moore was that she got hit in the face on a 3-pointer in the first half. She sported a bandage on her chin for the second half. 
“It’s just a little boo-boo,” Moore said. 
She left the game with over 9 minutes left to a loud ova­tion. 
The Scarlet Knights had won five in a row, including a 68-62 win over Marquette in the quarterfinals. The Scarlet Knights earned the No. 4 seed in the conference and a double bye. Their late season surge that included victories over West Virginia,Syracuse and the Golden Eagles will likely have them in the NCAA tour­nament for the ninth straight season. 
through No. 5 singles. 6, (7-3). Among the strong singles Looking ahead, the Belles 

Belles 

performances were Faller will have another week to and senior Kate Grabarek, tweak parts of their game 
continued from page 16 

who both won their matches and keep their momentum in 6-0, 6-1 fashion. before a weeklong spring No. 2 doubles. The only loss of the day for break trip to Florida, where 
On the singles side, the the Belles was in No. 1 sin-they will play five matches in Belles dominated in the mid-gles, where Hurley lost to St. six days. dle of their lineup, as the Mary’s (Minn.) Bailey Cardinals (4 -5) won nine Edwards, one of the best Contact Jack Hefferon at combined games in No. 2 players in the region, 6-3, 7-wheffero@nd.edu 
NBA 


Rose leads Chicago to win over Hornets 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO — Derrick Rose scored 24 points, and the Chicago Bulls beat New Orleans 85 -77 on Monday night with Hornets star Chris Paul sidelined by a concus­sion. 
The four-time All -Star watched from the sideline after colliding with Cleveland’s Ramon Sessions in Sunday’s win and remains day to day. Without him, the Hornets put up a fight against the Central division leaders but were shut out over the final 3:15. 
Coming off wins at Orlando and Miami, the Bulls couldn’t exhale until Rose hit two free throws with 35 seconds remaining. That made it 83­77 and sent them to their 10th win in 12 games. 
Carlos Boozer added 19 points and nine rebounds, and Ronnie Brewer and Luol Deng scored 10. 
Jarrett Jack, starting in Paul’s place, led the Hornets with 23 points, and Marco Belinelli scored 17.David West had 11 points and 11 rebounds, but New Orleans shot just 36.3 percent. 
Alone in second place after a one-point win over Miami on Sunday that gave them sole possession of second place in the Eastern Conference and a three-game sweep over the Heat, the Bulls had a tough time pulling this one out. They were leading 75-65 early in the fourth after Rose nailed a 
3. But the Hornets weren’t finished. 
They got a jumper by Jack and a pair of baskets by Willie Green after a timeout to pull within four midway through the quarter. Jack tied it at 77 on a layup with 3:15 left, but the Hornets didn’t score again. 
A driving Rose crashed to the floor as his layup got blocked by West, but Noah got fouled while converting the put-back, pumping his fist after the ball went in to give the Bulls a 79-77 lead with three minutes left. He missed the free throw, but Deng hit two less then a minute later to make it a four-point game. 
The teams then kept trad­ing misses before Rose’s free throws with 35 seconds made it a six-point game. 
Joakim Noah then stole the ball from Jack, leading to two free throws by Kyle Korver with 25 seconds left that made it 85-77. 


Newall 
continued from page 16 

skill-based game,” she said of lacrosse in the U.S. “There’s a lot more focus on stick work. It took some time to adjust, but I really enjoy the style of play.” 
Luckily, Newall could rely on her wealth of experience playing a sport that enjoys much popularity in private schools in England. 
“I’ve been playing lacrosse since I was 11 years old,” Newall said. “It’s really big in boarding schools, and I went to an all -girls boarding school.” 
Newall has used her experi­ence to work her way into the Irish regular rotation, start­ing all four games for Notre Dame (2-2) while scooping up two ground balls. The team will be back in action Thursday afternoon at 4 p.m. in their season debut at Arlotta Stadium versus Ohio State. 

Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 8, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 



Senior Geary’s leadership shines outside of pool 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Many important victories in sports today end with a trip to Disney World, but senior diver Nathan Geary’s fantastic career as a student-athlete began with a trip to the Magic Kingdom. 
This year’s Big East champion from the 3-meter board, Geary is also the Vice-President of the Student-Athlete Advisory Council (SAAC) and has participated in a number of leadership opportuni­ties during his time at Notre Dame, dating back to his first year of college. 
“After freshman year, I was selected to go to a leadership camp at Disney,” Geary said, “and I was the sole athlete selected from Notre Dame to go to this, so after that it was like the fast track to leadership.” 
Irish Coach Tim Welsh, who nominated Geary as the University’s representative for the forum, says he recognized the leadership in his freshman diver three years ago. 
“Nathan is a very outgoing, gregarious person very interest­ed in the University, very inter­ested in the team,” Welsh said. “We thought that he had the per­sonal skills and the interest and the discipline to do a good job with it.” 
Following his first conference, Geary developed an enthusiasm for leadership and for the cause of the student-athlete. After being a member of the Rosenthal Leadership Academy at Notre Dame during his sophomore year, Geary joined SAAC as a junior. 


“I really liked the political side of athletics,” Geary said. “I felt like I was pretty involved in some of the meetings and with some of the issues we were dealing with and I put my name in for vice 
president.” 
Geary was elected by last 
year’s SAAC officers, and his 
duties this year have included 
attending officer meetings, pre­
siding over student-athlete 
meetings, and working closely 
with the Student Union Board 
(SUB) to put together informa­
tion sessions for the student-
athletes. 
“The mission [of SAAC] is to 
make the student athlete’s expe­
rience all that it should be,” 
Geary said. “If there are prob­
lems that we see where student 
athletes are disadvantaged, we 
want to correct those.” 
One of Geary’s main achieve­
ments as vice president was 
coordinating a SUB committee 
on career initiative that put the 
student-athletes through a 
“career boot camp,” which 
focused on transitioning into life 
after college and securing a job. 
“That was a huge commit­
ment,” Geary said. “It was 
something where I had to work 
with the SUB committee, talk 
about who we wanted to get 
there, what we wanted to be 
said — and then featuring the 
six people [speakers], meeting 
with the Career Center. It ended 
up being really successful.” 
Geary understands from expe­
rience how difficult the life of a 
student-athlete can be, but he 
also realizes how rewarding the 
experience is. 
“The time commitment is the 
most difficult thing [about being 
a student athlete],” Geary said. 
“The time demands are brutal, 
but it is so worth it. I wouldn’t 
have changed anything I’ve 
done.” 
As he prepares for the upcom­
ing NCAA Zone Diving tourna­
ment, Geary knows that he 
would have to deliver at a 
career-best performance in 
order to advance to the NCAA 
championships. Still, as some­
one who has experienced suc­
cess in many different realms of 
life, Geary said he would be sat­
isfied as long as at least one of 
his teammates performs well 
enough to qualify. 
“Hopefully we’ll place really 
well,” Geary said, “But in the 
chance that I don’t make it, it’s 
not going to be the end of the 
world for me.” 
It certainly will be no tragedy 
for Geary if his season does 
indeed end with the conclusion 
of the Zone tournament on 
March 13. A paramount exam­
ple of success as a student-ath­
lete, Geary has enjoyed a great 
career and has already been 
accepted to three law schools. 
The PLS major awaits decisions 
from seven other schools. His 
coach simplified how successful 
Geary has been in just a short 
sentence. 
“He’s done it all,” he said. 


Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 8, 2011 

Johns 
continued from page 16 
Jackson said Johns has per­formed just as he was expected to. 
“He’s everything we expected him to be, and he’s had his ups and downs at times, but let me tell you what, when he has that physical edge to his game, he definitely keeps everybody’s head up on the opposition,” Jackson said. “People know when he’s on the ice. That’s a nice asset to have, something we really haven’t had since I’ve been here.” 
The freshman’s role as the Irish enforcer has not come without growing pains, as he spent a number of minutes in the early going in the penalty box for powerful but undisci­plined hits on opposing players. Jackson said making more dis­ciplined hits has been a big improvement in Johns’ game. 
“I think a big part of his game is learning to be under more control. He’s got to pick his spots to play physical,” Jackson said. “We’ve talked about where on the ice that’s effective and where it’s not. Big open-ice hits are tough to make for a defenseman, Johns’ elevated profile as a back-line enforcer has attract­ed the attention of referees. Jackson said Johns’ reputation as a big hitter might earn him penalty minutes. 

“Well, it’s unfortunate, I think sometimes he’s a marked man with officials,” Jackson said. “I think he’s playing physical out there and sometimes there are good hits that are getting called penalties. Because when he hits you, he hits you hard.” 
Though his penalty minutes have decreased over the course of the season, Johns has not abandoned his physical style, and his contributions to the back line along with his nine assists earned him an honor­able mention to the CCHA All-Rookie team. The freshman said the physical side of hockey has always been natural to him. 
“[Physical play] is probably my favorite thing about the game. Ever since I started playing I’ve really liked being physical. I think it’s really helped this team out, if I can give the team a little spark here and there, it’s definitely a good thing for me,” he said. “My dad always told me before I went out to play, ‘Play your game, be physical, have fun and just do your thing’ and 
that’s what I 
try to stick to 

because if you “Ever since I started 
every day. You miss, it’s a two-

playing I’ve really 
know, if being on-one. He has 

liked being physical. I physical is 
to look at oppor­

tunities where think it’s really helped what the coaches want 
he’s got a guy in this team out, if I can 
me to do, then a position 

give the team a little 
that’s what against the wall 

spark here and there, I’m going to 
where he can 

its definitely a good do to help my 
hit them and team.” 

use the wall as thing for me.” 
As the Irish leverage.” 
(21-10-5) pre-Johns agreed 

Stephen Johns 
pare to play that he needed 

Irish defenseman 
to adjust his hit­ting technique in order to stay on the ice while maintaining the physical nature of his play. 
“Beginning of the year was a little rough with all the penalty minutes, lately it’s been a little easier trying to pick my spots,” Johns said. “When I do hit a guy, I stay low and keep my elbows in, which was a prob­lem early in the year. It has a lot to do with momentum, one thing I need to learn is when I can hit and when I can’t.” 
Just as the scoring of fresh­man forwards T.J. Tynan and Anders Lee has attracted the increased attention of defenses, 



Illini 
continued from page 16 
matches, all of which went the maximum three sets. 
Seniors Stephen Havens and Dan Stahl, freshman Greg Andrews and junior Samuel Keeton all won the first set of their singles match before dropping the last two to give Illinois the victory. The other singles player, junior Casey Watt, came back from a first set loss to win the second. He eventually was defeated in the third set, 6-3. 
The match will be the third in five days for the Irish, as they lost 5-2 to No. 18 Texas A&M on Friday before defeat­ing No. 60 Northwestern, 6-1, on Sunday. On the other side, for the CCHA 

Championship with a second-round series against Lake Superior State on the slate this weekend, Jackson said the Irish were better off with Johns’ intimidating pres­ence on the defensive unit. 
“His physical presence has certainly made us a better team,” he said. 
.Note: Along with Johns’ hon­orable mention, Lee and Tynan were unanimous selections to the CCHA All-Rookie team, a 
team comprised of six CCHA first-time players. 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
it will be the fourth match in five days for the Illini, who played a doubleheader Friday, as well as a match Sunday. 
“We’re ready to go,” Sachire said when asked about any fatigue his team might be experiencing. “No one is overly tired. It’s the fourth match in five days for Illinois, so it will be just as difficult for them.” 
Because this match is in the middle of the spring season, Sachire does not expect fatigue to be a factor. 
“Both teams will be fine,” he said. “By this time all the teams are conditioned and ready to go.” 
The match between the ranked teams will be played tonight at 5 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 



Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
DePaul 
continued from page 16 
67 victory and the program’s first appearance in the champi­onship game in 10 years. 
“I thought last week [Achonwa] really battled defen­sively,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said about her fresh­man forward. “Tonight, offen­sively, she was a completely dif­ferent player. She was strong with the ball, she was confident and I think the offense helped her defense and vice versa. She played really well at both ends of the floor and that was the huge improvement from where she was.” 
With the No. 10 Irish (26-6, 13-3 Big East) up 66-65 and 
1:08 remaining in the game, Achonwa snatched a critical rebound after a DePaul missed layup. On the ensuing Notre Dame possession, sophomore Skylar Diggins fed her the ball for a layup to put the team up three with 41 seconds to go. 
On the other end, Hampton hit a layup of her own to narrow the deficit to one point. After Diggins split her free throws to give Notre Dame a one-point advantage, it was senior guard Brittany Mallory’s time to shine. 
With Blue Demon senior guard Sam Quigley bringing the ball up the court, Mallory recog­nized the play and went in aggressively for the steal. She jarred the ball loose and it was knocked out of bounds. The ref­eree gave Notre Dame the pos­session. 
“They had been running that same play where they screened down and came up for Hampton to get the ball,” Mallory said. “I just cheated up a little higher than I usual did, and it was a lit­tle loopy pass and I just got a hand on it. We dove after it and luckily it hit her out of bounds and we got the ball.” 


With 10 seconds remaining, the Irish were able to inbound the pass and erase nearly eight seconds before the Blue Demons fouled. Mallory went to the line, hit both shots and sealed the deal for Notre Dame. 
No. 9 DePaul (27-6, 13-3) fell behind 9-0 to start the game, but at that point Hampton sparked their offense. She scored 31 in the game, only a week after netting 17 against the Irish before fouling out. 
“But Hampton, wow, she can really play,” McGraw said. “She did an outstanding job — we couldn’t stop her. Luckily we had enough scoring on the other side to win the game.” 
Now that the Irish have faced their (Blue) Demons, the next and greatest challenge for this squad is knocking off an arch-rival — No. 1 Connecticut (31-1, 16-0). With their 75-51 semifi­nal victory over Rutgers, the three-time defending Big East champion Huskies have now won 13 consecutive games in the Big East tournament and 68 consecutive games overall in the conference. Arguably the closest Connecticut has been to losing during that stretch was during a trip to South Bend Jan. 8, a game the Huskies ultimately won 79-76. 
“With the first game we saw we can play with them we can beat them,” Diggins said. “The mistakes that we made were ours.” 
During their second matchup of the season Feb. 19, a 78-57 Connecticut blowout, the Huskies were not about to let the Irish threaten their home winning streak, which now stands at a record 80 games. 
Tonight’s game, played at the XL Center, is regarded as a home game for Connecticut by the NCAA because they played six regular season games in the arena. 
“In the second game we didn’t maintain that focus,” Diggins said. “You need to do that for 40 minutes against a team like that. We watched the film over and over.” 
In one of the biggest games in program history, the Irish will look to end those streaks and add an achievement of their own to the record books — the school’s first ever Big East tour­nament championship. The teams square off Tuesday at 7 
p.m. in Hartford, Conn. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 8, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 

Across 37 Kindly doctor's 1 “Horsefeathers!” asset 6 High in calories 42 Gives the heave-
ho
10 “… three men in ___” 43 Pre-Russia intl. economic
14 Basra native coalition15 Witty Bombeck 45 Chinese menu16 Situated by itself 
phrase17 Big name in 
49 Second letter 
orange juice 
after epsilon 19 Sousaphone, 
51 “Jesus ___” 
e.g. 
(shortest Bible 20 Bangladesh's verse)capital, old-style 
52 Common 21 Prison “screw” 
56 Japanese 23 Rocket 
theater interceptor, for 
57 Like kielbasa 
short 
and pierogi 25 Large gem in the 
58 Govt. security Smithsonian 60 Pause in the 28 Like a actionJekyll/Hyde 61 Artwork using personality both paint and 30 Sign at a sellout 

collage, e.g. … 31 Tirades and a hint to this 32 Motherland, puzzle's circled 
affectionately letters 35 ___ contendere 66 Gen. Robert ___ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


67 A util. 68 Resort isle near Venezuela 69 Fleet fleet, once,in brief 70 Big name in root beer 71 More red, as a tomato 
Down 
1 Milne's absent­minded “Mr.” 2 ___ Lanka 3 Individuallycrafted 4 Watery hue 5 Halloween broom-rider 6 Changes theboundaries of 7 Glass or Gershwin 8 901, in old Rome 9 Pilgrim to Mecca 10 Nissan model 11 French port near Marseille 12 Straight 13 Goat features 18 “Green” prefix 22 ___ rod (tall­stemmed plant) 23 Foofaraw 24 Tulip or lilyplanting 26 Che Guevara's real first name 27 Tragic end 29 Timothy Leary's turn-on 33 Plains Indians 34 Twice cinq 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
 
 
 
 19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
 
 
 
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  
 38  
 
 
 39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  50  51  
52  
 
 
 
 53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Puzzle by Ron and Nancy Byron 
36 Fall behind 46 Nonalcoholic 38 Homeowner's 
beer brand paper 47 French artist 39 Still in the crate who painted
“The Gleaners” 

40 Tied, as a score 48 Says “Cheese!” 
41 Defaulter's loss,informally 50 Worshipers ofQuetzalcoatl
44 To the ___degree 53 “Arabian Nights”prince
45 City near Mt. Vesuvius 54 Pull the plug on 
WILL SHORTZ 
55 Baseball's Garciaparra 
59 Actress Garr or Hatcher 
62 Dockworkers' org. 
63 Marked, as a ballot 
64 “May ___ excused?” 
65 Berne's river 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAVID MOMONT 



HOROSCOPE 
EUGENIA LAST 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, March 8, 2011 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Slaying the demons 
Irish defeat DePaul to advance to finals 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Irish sen­ior Becca Bruszewski fouled out on Feb. 28 with under six min­utes to play against DePaul, and freshman Natalie Achonwa stepped in against an imposing Blue Demon frontcourt in junior Keisha Hampton and senior Felicia Chester. The two set the tone down the stretch and knock off Notre Dame, 70-69. 
Fast-forward one week: The 
teams are locked in a close battle 
once again, this time with a berth 
in the Big East championship 
game on the line. Bruszewski 
was again forced to depart in the 
final minutes, now with a rib 
injury. Achonwa stepped into 
duty in her absence for the sec­
ond time, but on this occasion she 
and her teammates avenged last 
week’s defeat with a strong effort 
down the stretch to capture a 71­
COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 

Sophomore point guard Skylar Diggins drives past a Blue Demons defender in Notre Dame’s see DEPAUL/page 14 71-67 semifnals victory Monday. The Irish will face UConn tonight in the Big East Finals. 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles win second in succession 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off their first win of the season at John Carroll last week, the Belles opened their home MIAA schedule with an 8-1 win over St. Mary’s (Minn.). 
The key for the Belles (2-2) in the battle of the Midwest schools is their newly ­improved doubles teamwork, which was a focus for Belles coach Dale Campbell all week in practice. The team won all three doubles matches. 
Freshman Mary Catherine Faller and senior Jillian Hurley combined for the Belles’ first No. 1 doubles win of the season, prevailing in a tiebreaker 9-8 (7 -3). Freshman Margaret Boden and senior Mary Therese Lee had similar success in a late tiebreak, winning 9-8 (7-2) at 
see BELLES/page 12 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Newall uses experience from across the pond to excel 
By CORY BERNARD Sports Writer  sentiments of many an Irish England so going to school athletic recruit, she says she o v e r s e a s w a s n ’t r e a l l y a n f o u n d N o t r e D a m e i r r e -option for me at the time. The  N e w a l l s a i d , t h e c o a c h e s encouraged her to come for a v isi t, sin ce t h e rest o f he r  the players, the number of teams, it’s just on a different level.”  
sistible.  coaches  were  really support- class had committed. Newall  Newall says in addition to  
Unlike the rest of her class­ “I just fell in love with the  ive of the fact that it  was  a  has  no  doubt she made the  adjusting to the higher level  
mates  on  the lacrosse team,  place,” Newall said. “There  tough decision for  me.  They  right choice.  of competition, she needed to  
junior Kate Newall took quite a while to decide to play for N o t r e D a m e . H e r d e c i s i o n  was nothing to compare it to back home.” A c cording t o New all, the  really let me take my time a n d I ’ m v e r y g r a t e f u l f o r that.”  “The coaches asked me to come on an unofficial visit, so I w e n t w i t h m y d a d i n  adjust t o the difference in games. Women’s lacrosse in America differs in style from  
hinged more on geography than anything else. Once the midfielder from  coaches understood her situa­t i on an d re m a in e d p a t ien t t h r o u g h o u t h e r d i f f i c u l t  Newall faced the Irish in the s p r i n g o f 2 0 0 7 w h i l e o n England’s Under-19 squad.  February,” she said. “I had plans to play lacrosse had I stayed in England for school.  English lacrosse. Newall says s h e e n j o y s t h e A m e r i c a n game.  
Middlesex, England, finally s e t f o o t o n c a m p u s f o r a n unoffic ial v isit, he r choice  recruiting process. N o t r e D a m e ’s d e f e n s i v e I t ’s d i f f e r e n t t h o u g h , t h e y “It took a lot of decision-coaches liked her competi-don’t offer scholarships and m a k i n g , ” s h e s a i d . “ I h a d tiveness and decided to offer the co mp eti ti o n is n o thing  “The game is played really fast paced, and it’s a more  
be c am e cl ea r. E c h o in g th e  applied to  a  lot of schools in  her a scholarship. Eventually,  like it is here. The facilities,  see NEWALL/page 12  

HOCKEY 

Johns brings physicality 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Throughout the 2010-11 sea­son and a run to a second-place finish in the CCHA, the message to opposing forwards from the Notre Dame blue line has been clear: Stephen Johns is going to hit you, and he’s going to hit you hard. 
Johns, a freshman defense-man from Wampum, Pa., joined the Irish this off-season as a blue-chip recruit and a second-round pick of the Chicago Blackhawks. As a highly-touted addition, the 6-foot-4 back-line player was expected to bring a physical nature to the Notre Dame defense. Irish coach Jeff 
see JOHNS/page 14 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish look for revenge against No. 4 Illinois 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

For No. 24 Notre Dame, tonight’s match against No. 4 Illinois provides a critical opportunity to show that it can finish the job against some of the nation’s top tal­ent. 
The Irish (9-7) have played one of the nation’s toughest schedules, but at times have faced difficulty in playing con­sistently and playing well late to defeat top opponents. 
“Winning tennis is made of two parts,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “The first part is putting your­self in position and to execute well, and the second part is to finish the job and close out matches.” 
If the Irish are to beat the Illini (9-4), they will need to succeed in both areas, some­thing they did not do in a close 4-1 loss to Illinois on Jan. 29. 
“The first time we played them, and in last year’s match, we were in a position to win,” Sachire said. “We have to make sure we close it out this time. If we want to win, we must execute.” 
In the first contest, played at the Atkins Center in Champaign, Ill., the Irish dropped all five singles 
see ILLINI/page 14 




