the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Basketball fans mad for tourney 
By MEGAN DOYLE and SAM 

STRYKER 
News Writers 
As March Madness approaches and the Irish anticipate their tour­nament experience, some Notre Dame students will forfeit sunny afternoons at the beach for the lights of Madison Square Garden over their Spring Break. 
The No. 4 Notre Dame men’s bas­ketball team begins its quest for a championship in the Big East Conference tournament tonight as they square off against Cincinnati at 7 p.m. in New York. The quarterfi­nal game marks the next step in the team’s journey to a championship season. 
If the team wins tonight, the Irish will play again in a semifinal game at 9 p.m. Friday evening. 
Sophomore Mickey Gardella said he could not remember the last time he missed the Big East tournament. 
“My dad and I go every year,” he said. “I have been an ND fan my whole life so we always try to go to some of those games … but we see other teams play as well.” 
Gardella, a New Jersey native, will travel home for spring break Friday. If Notre Dame wins Thursday evening, he will join the Leprechaun Legion at 9 p.m. Friday to cheer on the team in the semifi­nals. 
The Notre Dame contingent in New York is typically smaller than at a home game in the Purcell Pavilion, Gardella said. 


“It’s not the atmosphere of a home game here but it is still a high level of basketball,” he said. “Usually we are outnumbered in terms of fans … but it is still a great experience.” 
Notre Dame students from the surrounding area and members of the band typically join the stands to support the team as they play for the Big East title. 
“We had a great finish to the year, and we are very hot right now,” he said. “But we don’t know what will happen.” 
The depth of the Big East Conference could help the team handle the heat of NCAA tourna­ment competition, Gardella said. 
“I think that would help us against a team like BYU or San Diego State that has not played the 
see FANS/page 3 



UNgroup,businesses,tomeetatND 


Habitat auctions historic window 
removed from the Main Building in 1997 will be included in an auction hosted by the St. Joseph County chapter of Habitat for Humanity. 
Jim Williams, executive direc­tor of the local Habitat chapter, said current bids for the win-
see WINDOW/page 4 



By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame fans can now purchase a window from the Main Building to add to their collection of University memora­bilia. 
One of several windows 

By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Government representa­tives and top business exec­utives will meet on campus with the United Nations Global Compact Foundation next week to discuss their goals to end extreme pover­ty around the world. 

The Mendoza College of Business will host the con­ference from March 20 to 
22. The United Nations Global Compact began in 2000 and established 10 principles for the better ­ment of humanity. 
Business professor Fr. Oliver Williams is one of the directors of this conference. 
“The United Nations founded the compact in 2000,” Williams said. “The compact is made of 10 prin­ciples for companies to abide by and incorporate into their daily practice.” 
Companies join the Global Compact and promise to protect human rights, labor rights, environmental issues and anti-corruption prac­tices. The Development Goals specifically outline 10 goals to significantly relieve poverty by 2015. 
To sign onto the Compact, the president of a company must write a letter to the Secretary General of the United Nations indicating an interest in joining and promising to write a report each year indicating how the company is progressing in implementing the 
see UN/page 5 
SGA 


Association discusses printing access 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
After debate, Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) passed a motion Wednesday to install a printer in Holy Cross Hall before the cur­rent administration ends its term April 1. 
Student body president Rachael Chesley said she will work to implement this project in coming weeks with student body vice president Laura Smith and Residence Hall Association (RHA) president Marianne Jones. 
“We will work on setting a max print limit, a time limit and developing an overall control plan for the printer,” Chesley said. 
Chesley and Jones met with Coordinator of Student Computing Kathy Hausmann to gather information about 
see SGA/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Group discusses turnover process page 3  Preparing for the Holy Half page 8  Men’s hockey to face Lake Superior page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, March 10, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE OLD CARTOON?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Andrew Owens John Cameron Cory Bernard Tori Roeck Mike Todisco 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 

Fugitive comes out of hiding for wife’s lasagna 
ROME — He avoided Italian police for a decade on the run, but couldn’t resist his wife’s lasagna. Police say Giancarlo Sabatini went into hiding in 2000, shortly after being given a 3-year, 8-month prison sentence in a cocaine trafficking case. 
Acting on a tip, police staked out the homes of Sabatini’s wife and daugh­ter Tuesday in Rocca Priora, a town near Rome. When they spied the daughter leaving her moth­er’s house and furtively dashing toward her home bearing a tray of lasagna, police, suspecting a secret guest, burst in and arrest-
Adriana Luna 
senior Welsh Family 
Andrew Diaz 
junior Keough 

Christian Estrada 
freshman Dillon 
David Riehm 
senior Stanford 
Michael Korcynski 
fifth-year senior Dillon 
Tamara Jones 
sophomore Ryan 

“Peanuts.” “Rugrats.” “Tom and “Captain “Darkwing “CatDog.” Jerry.” Planet.” Duck.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

ed Sabatini. 

Many Italians prepare lasagna with meat sauce for lunch on the last Tuesday of Carnival. Police say Sabatini came from his hideout in Belgium to cele­brate the last day before Lent with his family. 
Swedish robber caught because of urine left behind 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark 
— A Swedish bank robber forgot to cover his tracks and left three bottles of urine behind after hiding inside a bank vault in Copenhagen for three days. The 27-year-old man and his accomplice used the bottles to relieve them­selves after sneaking into the vault on a Friday in May and remaining there until the bank opened again the following Monday. 
While inside, the robbers emptied 140 safety deposit boxes of at least $500,000 in cash and jewelry. But Prosecutor Frederik Larsen said Wednesday they forgot to take the urine when they left “so we were able to get their DNA samples from the bottles.” 
The evidence helped prosecutors win a 21­month prison sentence for the Swede on Tuesday. His accomplice is still at large and the loot hasn’t been recovered. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A Hospitality Lunch, hosted by the Stone Soup Community and sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, will be held today in Geddes Hall at 11:45 
a.m. A $5 donation is suggested. 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering is sponsoring a seminar today titled “Acoustic Metamaterial: Recent Advances and Applications” that will be held in 138 DeBartolo Hall at 3:30 p.m. The speaker is Dr. Hsin-Haou Huang of Purdue University. 
Today, the women’s lacrosse team will take on Ohio State at Arlotta Stadium at 4 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Math for Everyone lec­ture series, hosted by the Department of Mathematics, continues today with “Probability in Lookup and Scream.” Christopher Swanson of Ashland University will be leading the talk at 5 p.m. in 117 Hayes-Healy Center. 
The keynote address of the Greed Conference titled “Excess, Greed and the World they Created” will take place tonight in the Notre Dame Conference Center in McKenna Hall at 6 
p.m. James Surowiecki, econo­mist for The New Yorker and author of The Wisdom of Crowds will be giving the address. 
The film “On the Bowery” will be shown tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 p.m. The film earned an Academy Award nomination for Best Documentary in 1957. Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight friday saturday sunday monday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


35 33 HIGH 4442 3639
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


33 28 LOW 3429 2928 






Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group discusses senator turnover 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
With student government turnover approaching on April 1, Student Senate discussed ways of improving the senator transi­tion workshop for incoming sen­ators at Wednesday’s meeting. 
Oversight Committee Chair Paige Becker said the student government constitution requires this transitional work­shop to take place when old sen­ators step down and new sena­tors take over the positions. 
“It’s supposed to provide some background for incoming sena­tors on Senate,” she said. “For example, the role of senators, parliamentary procedures, time constraints, commitments.” 
Many current senators said the training should emphasize the importance of communication with other dorm leaders. Farley senator Leslie Tatlow said the workshop leaders should recom­mend the senators meet with their hall presidents regularly. 
Knott senator Alex Kasparie proposed holding a few joint meetings a semester with both Senate and Hall Presidents’ Council. 
“I know it’s a large group of people, but I think it could be constructive for the whole stu­dent body,” he said. “It would really help facilitate coopera­tion.” 
Similarly, Pasquerilla East sen­ator Julie Doherty said an event for the incoming senators to meet and get to know each other would greatly reduce any dis­comfort felt at the first few meet­ings. 
Besides attending weekly Senate meetings, senators are also expected to serve on two committees, such as the Academic Affairs or Social Concerns Committee. 
Chair of Academic Affairs Committee AJ McGauley said the workshop should stress that sen­ators are required to not only attend the committee meetings but also to be involved. 
“As senators on the committee, you are the bulk of the working force,” Cavanaugh senator Tegan Chapman said. 
Chapman said while there are other people on the committees, it is important for the incoming senators to realize a large part of the effort is their responsibili­ty. 
“[Non-senators] don’t feel they have to step up and do work,” she said. “But it’s part of your job, you got elected to do that.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

SMC reps discuss women in science 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 

Young women should study biology, chemistry and engi­neering to increase the female presence in the science field, four Saint Mary’s representa­tives said on local television Friday. 
The women appeared on “Economic Outlook,” a pro­gram on the local public televi­sion station WNIT. 
The show featured Dr. Nancy Nekvasil, chair and professor of the Department of Biology, and Dr. Toni Barstis, professor of chemistry and director of the College’s dual degree engineer­ing program. Erin Heck, a 2008 graduate, and senior Tara Hill also appeared on the program. 
The show addressed women’s power to help the nation regain its competitive edge in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects. 
“About one third of the U.S. students intending to major in engineering switch majors,” said Phil D’Amico, host of “Economic Outlook” and a member of St. Joseph County’s Chamber of Commerce. 
The majority of students who make this switch are not women, D’Amico said, but the panel agreed students should begin education in science courses at a young age to foster interest. 
Barstis said sixth to eighth grade is a crucial time to influ­ence children, but she said conversation about STEM classes and careers with chil­dren should start even earlier. 
“Everyone’s a scientist if they’re curious,” Barstis said. 
Nekvasil said STEM classes sometimes are resisted in ele­mentary schools. 
“Through no fault of their own, elementary education teachers are not terribly com­fortable doing science,” Nekvasil said. “There have been many studies done that show they’re pretty comfort­able with English and history, so they spend their day doing that.” 
Student are not exposed to STEM curriculum because it does not receive enough atten­tion in the classroom, Nekvasil said. 
“Science gets pushed to the end of the day and then maybe 10 minutes and maybe not every day of the week,” she said. 
Teachers need to better engage students by supporting interest in the science and using hands-on lesson plans, she said. 
Saint Mary’s has dedicated nearly 150 years to educating women in the science field, Nekvasil said, and the College encourages students to push themselves in the STEM fields. 
“The Department of Chemistry/Physics and the Department of Biology wel­come young women to enter and complete our programs,” Nekvasil said. “We promise small classes, individual atten­tion, opportunities for 


Fans 
continued from page 1 
schedule we have,” he said. 
Junior Andrew Fessler said his pilgrimage to Madison Square Garden for the Big East tournament is also an annual tradition. 
“I used to go a lot when I was younger,” he said. “I’ve been going to one or two games a year for as long as I can remember.” 
Fessler said the Notre Dame bas­ketball team would enter the tour­nament with a different vibe this year than in seasons past. 
“I’ve always been a big Notre Dame fan and expected them to do well, even though they haven’t always been good,” he said. “The difference is this year everyone expects them to do well, not just me.” 
This particular tournament is spe­cial for Fighting Irish fans because of high expectations for the team this year, Fessler said. 
“It is really important to the fans because they have never done that well in the Big East tournament, so this year is exciting,” he said. 
Fessler said the performance of the basketball team in the Big East tournament will dictate how well the Fighting Irish play in the NCAA championship. 
“It’s always important because we’re going against other top ranked teams,” he said. “It really impacts who we play in the tourna­ment.” 
The team’s success during the regular season should attract a larg­er fan base to Madison Square Garden, Fessler said. 
“Usually the teams that had more fans were from the area, like Syracuse or Saint Johns. They are obviously closer for a fan com­mute,” he said. “Most of the schools are closer than Notre Dame, but Notre Dame has a national fan base that other Big East teams don’t have.” 
research, opportunities to learn lab skills and opportunities to grow into confident young women. The more women we graduate in biology, chemistry, engineering and math, the more we are contributing to STEM careers in the world.” 
With the help of Saint Mary’s curriculum and teachers, Hill said she realized the vast possi­bilities for careers in the STEM field as she began working toward her biology major. 
Hill said she originally feared she would be restricted to careers in either education or medicine by choosing to study science. After her experience in Saint Mary’s classrooms and study abroad, Hill discovered her passion for public health. 
Other students should realize the opportunities available in the sciences, Hill said, and out­reach programs such as those provided by Saint Mary’s can be a mechanism for educating younger women. 
Among these outreach pro­grams was Hypatia Day at Saint Mary’s Feb. 26, when middle school girls attended science classes and labs on campus. 
Saint Mary’s will host “Celebrating the Education of Women in Science” Day on March 24 to emphasize the way women can be involved in the field. 
“[Science] is not hocus-pocus and it’s not just for men,” Nekvasil said. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
After the Big East tournament comes to a close Saturday evening, Notre Dame will turn its attention to the NCAA tournament. The March Madness first round schedule will be determined March 12, and tour­nament games begin March 15. 
Sophomore Lauren Rasch said though she will not be attending the Big East tournament, she is excited to watch the competition over her Spring Break. 
“I’d like to [watch some games]. I’ll be with my dad. He is an alum so he is excited to watch the games with me,” she said. 
Rasch said she is more excited for this year’s tournament because of how successful the Fighting Irish have been in the regular season. 
“I guess we’re fair-weather fans,” she said. 
Notre Dame needs to do well in the competitive Big East tourna­ment in order to set the tone for the rest of the championship season, Rasch said. 
“We need to do well so that we will continue having momentum,” she said. “We’re the number two seed, so hopefully we will do well and meet and exceed expectations, and continue.” 
Rasch said she has high expecta­tions for the Fighting Irish this spring, both in the Big East tourna­ment and the NCAA championship. 
“I think we will do well. I think we expect them to win some games,” she said. “It would be really exciting to win the whole thing.” 
Rasch said the Notre Dame stu­dent body seems more excited for the basketball team than in years past. 
“I’ll walk into [LaFortune Student Center] and there will be games on and there will be a big group crowded around cheering,” she 
said.  “  [There are]  a  lot  of  
Leprechaun  Legion  T-shirts  
around.”  

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu and Sam Stryker at sstryk01@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 10, 2011 
SGA 
continued from page 1 
installing a printer in the build­ing. Printers existed in the dorms in previous years. 
According to Chesley, SGA will be single-handedly responsible for the funding of installation and maintenance of dorm print­ers. Information Technology (IT) will not support this initiative, although SGA received a green light to continue with the proj­ect. 
“In our discussion at the last meeting [with Hausmann], we were told that they will not share a budget with us,” Chesley said. “We will pay for the paper and toner. [IT] will not pay for it. They will help with installation but that’s it.” 
SGA began pursuing this ini­tiative at the beginning of the semester. Although the entire board welcomed the idea of dorm printers, the group debat­ed about the lack of a print limit, the responsibility of SGA in maintaining the printers and the cost factor. 
“The print limit is set up on the administrative network,” Chesley said. “Since the printer will not be connected to this net­work, students will be able to print free of charge.” 
Several board members expressed concern over the pos­sibility that students will exploit the lack of print limit. Chesley, Smith and Jones said they are looking at solutions to prevent students from taking advantage of unlimited printing. 
Another concern was SGA’s responsibility for maintaining the printer. 
Student Activities Board presi­dent Allie Courtney said the manpower required to take care of the printer is a critical factor in the decision. 
“It’s very difficult to maintain a printer, as we’ve seen with the 
Window 
continued from page 1 
dow have escalated to $500 as of Tuesday. The auction will close at 6 p.m. on Friday. 
“This window would fit per­fectly in an Irish pub, and for an alumni or a big fan it would be a great piece,” Williams said. 
The proceeds from the auction will benefit both the Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity club and the Habitat clubs of several local high schools. 
Notre Dame’s Habitat chapter will use its portion of the pro­ceeds to fund its current con­struction project, and Williams said it is fitting that the win­dows from the Main Building should contribute to a University project. 
“The Notre Dame student chapter was looking for some funding for their build, so the timing could be really good on this,” Williams said. 
Habitat received the windows from a former Pella Windows and Doors plant in South Bend. Pella originally used the win­dows as templates to construct replacement windows for the building. 
Habitat bought the plant in May 2010, Williams said, and now uses the space as a ReStore location. ReStore is the building materials warehouse operated nationwide for Habitat chapters. The window is currently on dis­play at ReStore alongside a bid­ding sheet. Bids can be made in person or over the phone with ReStore. 
printer in the student center, and we need to really think about if we have the necessary manpower or not to handle this printer.” 
The board also discussed pro­jected costs. 
For the remainder of the year, the estimated cost of buying and maintaining a printer in one dorm is $3,460, the group said. This cost covers the price of the printer (with scanning and copy­ing capabilities), two toners and three packages of paper. 
The estimated cost was pro­vided by Hausmann based on previous use of printers in the dorms. 
After a vote, SGA approved senior class president Kelly Lyons’ motion to install a printer in Holy Cross Hall before the end of the current administration. This decision does not ensure that the following administration will continue to support and pur­sue the dorm printer initiative. 
SGA also hosted a visit by inte­rior designer Laura Connell dur­ing the meeting. Connell, work­ing closely with the SGA LeMans Hall basement project commit­tee, brought fabric samples and a design board that depicts the plan for the renovation of the hall. 
“The plan is to create a group area where everybody can just hang out,” Connell said. “It’s not a study space, but a place to relax after a long day. You don’t want it to feel like a basement.” 
The renovation plan includes a kitchen area with a booth setup, a gaming area with two tables with backgammon and checker­board games built into them, a movie area and a “chill zone” which will have bean bags and two chase lounges, Connell said. All of the furniture is custom designed and made-to-order. The ship date for the furniture is April 5. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
Deborah Olmstead, co-presi­dent of the Notre Dame Habitat chapter, said the club was doing its part in promoting the auc­tion. 
“Our club is reaching out to our alumni and donors to inform them of this fantastic opportunity to own a piece of Notre Dame History,” Olmstead said. “Selling a physical part of the Main Building means a lot to us, especially since many mem­bers of our club now know what installing a window entails.” 
Local high school chapters will use proceeds from the auc­tion and their other fundraising efforts to finance their signature “Rock the House” build in the South Bend area. 
Williams contacted the University to verify that the win­dows were used in the main building and to get the University’s permission to sell one of the windows. 
Charles Lamb, assistant direc­tor of University Archives, veri­fied the authenticity of the win­dows. 
The exact age of the windows has yet to be determined. Lamb said the window was in use as early as 1966 but might be much older. 
The window could possibly as old as 1879 when the Main Building was rebuilt after a fire. 
Habitat for Humanity is work­ing to determine the window’s exact age. Williams is in contact with University Architect Doug Marsh, and he said they hope to have a definite answer before the bidding closes on Friday. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

Architectspeaksoncitydesign 
By ALLISON FACHETTI 
News Writer 

Leaving the planet in better shape for future generations through good city planning should be a goal for both architects and citizens, said visiting architect Dhiru A. Thadani Wednesday. 
Thadani, a Bombay native, discussed the five crises Americans face in city plan­ning today and the lessons he learned about urbanism from living in India during a lecture at Bond Hall. 
“Urbanism is a perspective solution to the crisis we face today,” he said. 
Thadani drew on his experi­ences working around the globe to support his points. 
“When you work in the city, you really need to think beyond defining the little ele­ments of the building, but the space you are making … being an architect not just of the building, but of the city,” Thadani said. 
He described the problems of population growth, the post peak oil era, climate change, public health and housing supply and demand. He com­pared working with climate change to “fighting a sumo-wrestler.” 
“America is addicted to oil,” Thadani said. “Most other countries in the world includ­ing India are experiencing the same thing.” 
Large homes are a problem for levels of supply and demand in the housing mar­ket, Thadani said. The market does not meet the demand for single household homes, but the supply of large homes will exceed its demand for the next 40 years. 
“We are building the wrong type of product,” he said. 
While these challenges can cripple good urban design, Thadani said city planners can learn from mistakes made in cities around the globe, such as his native Bombay. He said life in the city has declined in the past 35 years but was once a strong model for urbanism. 
“This collection of buildings were designed to look like London, so when someone was arriving, they would feel like they were coming to a place that was familiar and civilized,” Thadani said. “It was an amazing place to grow up.” 
While American cities such as Washington, D.C., improved in recent years, Bombay’s architecture took backwards steps, Thadani said. 
“D.C. has made all the right steps, taken the advice of planners … Bombay has done the reverse, it has pretty much destroyed the beautiful British city,” he said. 
Bombay is now a model for how not to plan a city, Thadani said. Bombay built “skywalks,” or bridged walk­ways above the street, and fences to prevent pedestrians from crossing the street. 
Thadani said architects need to remember streets are made for people and should be accessible to them. 
“It is really ludicrous to send pedestrians up flights of stairs to walk across,” he said. 
“Pedestrians need to be on the street level, that is where they belong.” 
Thadani also said architects must remember that “small is beautiful.” 
Many cities, including Bombay, are embracing high rises, he said, but these areas will never be home to some­one who is used to living in a low-rise building. According to Thadani, the key in build­ing cities is through incre­mental growth. 
Thadani said urban plan­ning should also be more con­scious of the environment in its efforts to go green. 
Everyone wants to go green, he said, but in some ways these efforts do not help the environment. Building main­tenance, such as cleaning, should be sustainable as well as the overall building design. 
“Covering a building in green fluffy stuff doesn’t make it green,” he said. “I predict architects will build buildings that look like vegetables.” 
Building codes are another challenge to good city plan­ning, Thadani said. Examples of well-designed neighbor­hoods like Washington, D.C., or Georgetown would not comply with many building codes if being built today. 
“Most good urbanism all over the world is illegal,” he said. 
The last lesson Thadani pre­sented was creating beauty in architecture. He said taxpay­ers deserve beautiful infra­structure, such as the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, since that property belongs to everybody. 
“You can’t forget about beauty,” Thadani said. “It is not only beautiful plans and buildings, but also beauty in infrastructure.” 
Contact Allison Fachetti at afachett@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer  NEWS page 5 
Wisconsin GOP cuts collective bargaining 
Republicans bypass Democrats, approve proposal limiting public workers’ rights 
Associated Press 
MADISON — The Wisconsin Senate succeeded in voting Wednesday to strip nearly all collective bargaining rights from public workers, after Republicans outmaneuvered the chamber’s missing Democrats and approved an explosive proposal that has rocked the state and unions nationwide. 
“You are cowards!” specta­tors in the Senate gallery screamed as lawmakers voted. Within hours, a crowd of a few hundred protesters inside the Capitol had grown to several thousand, more than had been in the building at any point during weeks of protests. 
“The whole world is watch­ing!” they shouted as they pressed up against the heavily guarded entrance to the Senate chamber. 
All 14 Senate Democrats fled to Illinois nearly three weeks ago, preventing the chamber from having enough members present to consider Gov. Scott Walker’s “budget-repair bill” 
— a proposal introduced to plug a $137 million budget shortfall. 
The Senate requires a quo­rum to take up any measures that spends money. But Republicans on Wednesday took all the spending meas­ures out of the legislation and a special committee of law­makers from both the Senate and Assembly approved the revised bill a short time later. 
The unexpected yet surpris­ingly simple procedural move ended a stalemate that had threatened to drag on indefi­nitely. Until Wednesday’s stun­ning vote, it appeared the standoff would persist until Democrats returned to Madison from their self-imposed exile. 
“In 30 minutes, 18 state sen­ators undid 50 years of civil rights in Wisconsin. Their dis­respect for the people of Wisconsin and their rights is an outrage that will never be forgotten,” said Democratic Senate Minority Leader Mark Miller. “Tonight, 18 Senate Republicans conspired to take government away from the people.” 
The state Assembly previ­ously approved the original proposal and was set to con­sider the new measure on Thursday. Miller said in an interview with The Associated Press there is nothing Democrats can do now to stop the bill: “It’s a done deal.” 
The lone Democrat present on the special committee, Assembly Minority Leader Peter Barca, shouted that the meeting was a violation of the state’s open meetings law. The Senate’s chief clerk said hours later the meeting was properly held. 
Senate convened within min­utes of the committee meeting and passed the measure 18-1 without discussion or debate. Republican Sen. Dale Schultz cast the lone no vote. 
“The jig is now up,” Barca said. “The fraud on the people of Wisconsin is now clear.” 
Walker had repeatedly argued that collective bargain­ing was a budget issue, because his proposed changes would give local governments the flexibility to confront budget cuts needed to close the state’s $3.6 billion deficit. He has said that without the changes, he may have needed to lay off 1,500 state workers and make other cuts to bal­ance the budget. 
Walker said Wednesday night that Democrats had three weeks to debate the bill and were offered repeated opportunities to come back, but refused. 
“I applaud the Legislature’s action today to stand up to the status quo and take a step in the right direction to balance the budget and reform gov­ernment,” Walker said in the statement. 
The measure approved Wednesday forbids most gov­ernment workers from collec­tively bargaining for wage increases beyond the rate of inflation. It also requires pub­lic workers to pay more toward their pensions and double their health insurance contribution, a combination equivalent to an 8 percent pay cut for the average worker. 

Police and firefighters are exempt. 
Walker’s proposal touched off a national debate over union rights for public employees and prompted tens of thousands of demonstrators to converge on Wisconsin’s capital city for weeks of protests. 
Wednesday’s drama unfold­ed less than four hours after Walker met with GOP senators in a closed-door meeting. He emerged from the meeting saying senators were “firm” in their support of the bill. 
For weeks, Democrats had offered concessions on issues other than the bargaining rights and they spent much of Wednesday again calling on Walker and Republicans to compromise. 
Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald said earlier that Republicans had been dis­cussing concessions offered by Walker, including allowing public workers to bargain over their salaries without a wage limit. Several GOP sena-tors facing recall efforts had also publicly called for a com­promise. 

“The people of Wisconsin elected us to come to Madison and do a job,” Fitzgerald said in a statement after the vote. “Just because the Senate Democrats won’t do theirs, doesn’t mean we won’t do ours.” 
Union leaders weren’t happy with Walker’s offer, and were furious at the Senate’s move to push the measure forward with a quick vote. Phil Neuenfeldt, president of the Wisconsin state AFL-CIO, said after Wednesday’s vote that Republicans exercised a “nuclear option.” 
“Scott Walker and the Republicans’ ideological war on the middle class and work­ing families is now indis­putable,” Neuenfeldt said. 
While talks had been going on sporadically behind the scenes, Republicans in the Senate also had publicly tried to ratchet up pressure on Democrats to return. They had agreed earlier Wednesday to start fining Democrats $100 for each day legislative ses­sion day they miss. 
U.N. 
continued from page 1 
Principles, Williams said. 
The company must address the specific goals, which include abolishing of child labor, eliminating discrimi­nation and using environ ­mentally friendly technology. 
“If globalization in the world’s economy is going to continue, it must be done in a fair manner, ” Williams said. 
The problem that the U.N. was noticing was that many businesses based in multina­tional countries were pro­ducing the majority of their products in developing nations. 
After they drafted the com­pact, Williams wrote to the organization to offer his help in spreading awareness about the cause. The United Nations responded and asked Williams to host a confer­ence at Notre Dame for both United Nations and business leaders. 
“In 2002, we hosted the first conference here with a number of companies attend­ing,” Williams said. “Since the first conference, over 6,000 businesses have signed onto the compact.” 
Four years ago, the United Nations contacted Williams again and asked if he would be on the board of directors for the UN Global Compact Foundation. Williams and his colleagues have since funded the development of the com­pact in third world coun ­tries. 
“Companies need to prac­tice better ethical standards, and consumers need to be aware of where their compa­ny makes its products and process by which they do so,” Williams said. “This is 
one of the major points which will be touched upon at this conference.” 
A number of prominent companies will visit campus at the upcoming conference, including Coca -Cola, Microsoft, Nestlé and Levi Strauss. 
In addition to raising awareness of company mal­practice such as sweat shops, the conference will look at businesses’ role as humanitarians who are able to use some of their power to jumpstart impoverished nations. 
The United Nations’ deci­sion to hold the conference at Notre Dame is another cause for hope, Williams said. 
“Notre Dame strives to teach both the hearts and minds of students so they will be able to use their tal­ents to help others, ” Williams said. “The United Nations finds our values con­gruent with their own.” 
The Mendoza College of Business has already imple­mented some of the values and deals to be discussed at the conference in its educa­tional program. 
“We require all of our undergraduate and MBA stu­dents to take an ethics course, which takes a closer look at some of the compli­cated problems going on in the business world, ” Williams said. “We believe the purpose of business is to produce both financial and human value.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, March 10, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What are you fighting for? 
All right, we’re guilty. Sometimes we whine about working at The Observer; it often goes hand-in-hand with our griping about the weather and the weird things that go Allan Joseph along with Notre Chris Allen Dame. But sometimes we Assistant get the opportu-Sports nity to be a part Editors of something, even indirectly, that reminds us why we’re so lucky to be a part of this University. 
Over the past two months, we have had the good fortune of organizing the Observer’s coverage of Bengal Bouts. It’s been a lot of work –– there’s no denying that. In getting to know the boxers and going inside the boxing club to learn about the moti­vations and backgrounds of the vari­ous fighters, however, we have been inspired. 
It’s evident that this club is not one that sees the support of the Holy Cross missions as a fortunate byprod­uct of their fights. Everything they do is imbued with a sense of purpose, a sense of being a part of something greater than oneself, and a sense of fighting for those who cannot fight for themselves. 
These boxers take to heart their motto: “Strong bodies fight, so that weak bodies may be nourished.” Most telling were the interviews with each one of the captains that formed the basis of our feature stories in last Friday’s paper. The captains spoke to our writers with smiles on their faces and joy in their expressions that transcended boxing — they were telling in words the stories of the Holy Cross missions that they set out to tell every time they step between the ropes and box. 
For none of the captains is the box­ing club just a hobby — it is a way of life. Each one of the captains who had been to Bangladesh to visit the mission called it a transformative experience and they meant it. Senior Mike Doran said it best; “A win in the ring is awesome, but there’s no bet­ter feeling than sending over a check for $150,000 that you know is going to change kids’ lives.” 
The Bouts exemplify Notre Dame. They are truly a representation of what this University is about — using our own personal talents to make the world a better place. To bring about this change through boxing — truly one of the most physically demanding sports in the world — makes their work all the more amazing. The series of “What Are You Fighting For?” promotional videos put out by Notre Dame are taken literally in Bengal Bouts — it begs any spectator to consider whether they are in fact putting their own talents to best use. 
We have been privileged to cover Bengal Bouts over the past month, and to see firsthand the dedication it takes to fight for something you believe in. To the men and women who contribute to the mission of Bengal Bouts, from the co-presidents on down, thank you for what you do. Thank you for giving this whole Notre Dame community a model of compassion to aspire to. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Deficit and debt 
In the past few weeks, coverage of the ongoing labor dispute between Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin and the state’s public sector employee unions has dominated the headlines and editorial sections of news­papers, talk shows 
and websites Ryan Williams 
throughout the country. At issue in this contentious freethoughts debate is the right of Wisconsin’s state workers to collectively bargain for wages and benefits. 
Gov. Walker, backed by Republican majorities in both houses of the state legis­lature, has proposed eliminating this right and is asking state workers to contribute a greater percentage of the health and pen­sion benefits. On the other hand, Democrats and union members, while accepting the increased contribution requirements, have vehemently opposed the effort to strip state workers of their collective bargaining rights. They have staged massive overnight demonstrations in the state capitol building and even, in the case of the Democratic members of the state senate, fled to Illinois to deny the leg­islature the ability to vote on the proposed bill. Republicans argue that collective bar­gaining for public sector employees is an inherently flawed policy — they contest that, while private sector unions are acceptable because they seek to bargain for a greater share of the profits of their own labor, public sector workers create no profits, and so are merely trying to grab an ever larger slice of taxpayer dollars (ironically, a position shared by the great liberal icon Franklin Delano Roosevelt). Democrats see Gov. Walker’s bill as merely the opening skirmish in a strategic war to whittle away the rights of all workers, public and private, to unionize. 
In spite of these conflicting viewpoints, the real driving force behind this debate is not a philosophical divide over the role of public sector unions, but rather the need to confront the stark reality that Wisconsin faces a massive budget deficit that voters have made clear they want to see addressed. Gov. Walker reasons that elimi­nating the collective bargaining rights of state workers will make it more difficult for them to obtain future pension and ben­efit deals like the ones that contributed to the state’s present fiscal crisis, thus help­ing to stabilize the long term finances of Wisconsin. 
In searching for creative solutions to solve his state’s budget problems, Walker is joined by his counterparts in statehous­es across the nation, from New York to California, Illinois to Texas, who all face similarly desperate fiscal situations as they witness the recession’s continuing negative impact on tax revenues. Many of these governors should be commended for try­ing to responsibly trim down the size of state government by cutting wasteful spending. Others have taken a far more severe and harmful approach to reducing deficits, and are endangering the future of the children of their states. 
Texas, a state that already ranks 49th in SAT verbal scores and 46th in SAT math scores, recently saw its governor, Rick Perry, propose to cut $2 billion more from his education budget. A similar slash-and­burn mentality has taken hold on Capitol Hill, where enthusiastic new Republican legislators in the House of Representatives have sought to enact tens of billions of dol­lars of spending cuts, to such worthy pro­grams as food safety inspection, Pell grants, food stamps and foreign aid. 
Efforts like these and those playing out in state capitals across the country aren’t addressing the true underlying causes of this nation’s fiscal crisis, because they focus solely on cutting non-defense, non-mandatory discretionary spending, which constitutes only about 19 percent of the federal budget (and a moderately higher share of state spending, but mostly because of the lack of defense spending in states). What’s more, they are consuming valuable political capital that ought to be expended fighting for reform of that spending which is truly driving up the deficit — entitlements and defense spend­ing. In 2010, entitlement spending consti­tuted 55 percent of the federal budget, and nearly 45 percent of many state budgets. These numbers are expected to grow sig­nificantly, as more aging baby boomers become eligible for social security and Medicare, and as a result of the 2009 health care law which expanded Medicaid eligibility to 133 percent of the poverty line, beginning in 2014. Spending of this magnitude is entirely unsustainable, and Congress and state governments must be willing to take unpopular action in order to restore a sense of balance to these bloated disbursements. 
Everything has to be on the table when it comes to solving this predicament, including raising the retirement age, insti­tuting means-based testing, and reducing the cost of living adjustment. Similarly, when it comes to defense spending, it is time for the United States to listen to rea­son. Currently, U.S. defense expenditures account for 40 percent of total global mili­tary expenditures, six times more than the next largest budget, that of the People’s Republic of China. 
Do we really need to be spending $10 billion on ballistic missile defenses that in 20 years haven’t ever worked once? How about $2 billion dollars annually for a fan­ciful space laser program? Do we really need to maintain military bases in Germany or Portugal? Surely it is a sad reflection on the state of our nation when government is willing to cut education spending before programs like these. 
Our nation faces a massive fiscal crisis that is going to affect our nation’s economy for years to come. Our leaders in federal and state government are going to have to make many tough choices about how and where to best allocate spending. Instead of wasting valuable time and energy fighting battles over collective bargaining and edu­cation spending, they should be focused on fixing those programs that are true driving forces behind the deficit. Let’s hope they can acknowledge this fact and begin work­ing to restore some common sense to our spending habits. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Homer Simpson effect 
A few months ago, I found myself at a casino with some of my friends from high school, breathing in that unique casino smell of body odor, cigarettes and shattered dreams. Upon finding that the only open seats for blackjack were located next to a chain-smok­ing man with an exciting variety of prison tattoos and more poker chips than teeth, my friends and I decided to wait it out and watch some TV instead. Playing at that moment was a commer­cial in which men leapt through their TVs trying to grab three dimensional beer cans, causing a nearby man to casually remark, “That’s just plain offensive.” 
Although I hadn’t really thought about it before, nowadays it truly is hard to turn on the television without seeing a commercial or show in which a man is doing something blatantly stupid. Most popular sitcoms, including classics like “The Simpsons,” seem to revolve around a rock-headed man who is consistently saved from his self-destructive antics by his wife or significant other. It’s reached the point where I’m confident that an alien tasked with finding out all they could about men using only TV as a reference would come away with the impression that we’re a breed of primitive, persistently intoxicated mammals who only take occasional breaks from their daily routine of drinking, fight­ing, and making bad decisions in order to sleep and watch sports. Some might find this alarming, but my response is “So what?” 
I know that there are some “enlightened” men who like to sit around cross-legged listening to indie music, comparing their berets and complaining about “discriminatory gender portrayal,” but to these do-gooders I would suggest getting a sense of humor. Quite frankly, watching men behave poorly on television is hilari­ous, even if the joke is at our expense. Life is more fun if you can learn to laugh at yourself, and so rather than get mad when men do stupid things on TV, I’ll continue to chuckle and tune in next week, because a world without funny beer commercials is not a world in which I want to live. 
Dan Brombach 
freshman Siegfried Hall Mar. 9 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are your plans for Spring Break? I'm going home Somewhere warms and sunny 
with friends Going on a service trip Other Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I do not want people to beagreeable, as it saves me the trou­ble of liking them.” 
Jane Austen English novelist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 10, 2011 page 7 
Zits, Mel Gibson and Ash Wednesday 
What do your first teenage zit, Mel Gibson in Braveheart and Ash Wednesday have in common? 
Sometime between the ages of 9 and 13, deep inside of us, our bodies begin to change. The changes 
Lou DelFra 
begin, not on the sur­face of our skin, but Faithpoint deep within our blood­stream and hormones and glands. (I am talking science without a license here, invoking freedom of the press and my Program of Liberal Studies degree to talk authoritatively about matters well beyond my understanding). Yet, of course, as is obvious to us as we look back at our high school yearbook photos, at some point the outer surface of our bodies gives way to the biological and chemical forces swirling within, and then zits happen! How can a filmmaker convince the viewer of William Wallace’s passion for Scotland’s independ­ence from England, a passion that smol­ders deep inside of Wallace, and will explode forth on the field of battle? 
The problem, of course, is that Wallace’s energy, his spirit, is invisible here, lost to the naked eye. Yet nothing is more real, more important to the movie, more driving in Wallace’s life and Scotland’s future. Thank God for facepaint! Smear Wallace’s face in the colors of Scotland, and we cre­ate not only one of the iconic big-screen images of the last 20 years, but a visible sign of the deep, invisible forces at work within his heart. 
Which brings us to Ash Wednesday. The point about marking our foreheads is now obvious. The interesting question about Ash Wednesday is not why we annually mark ourselves with ashes. Human beings mark the outer surfaces of their bodies 
with marks that signify interior realities 
all the time, both involuntarily through 
natural biological processes, and volun­
tarily with everything from tattoos to designer clothes. 
The interesting question is: why ashes? What mysterious reality about ourselves, utterly true but also deeply interior, invisi­ble and always just out of reach, do we wish to mark by pressing ash to our fore­heads? In our Scriptures, it is Abraham who first confesses the seemingly devastat­ing truth about humanity: “Forgive me Lord, for I am nothing but dust and ashes.” It is a confession of his origin, recounted in Genesis 2:7: “Then the Lord God formed a human being from the dust of the ground.” Abraham is manufactured from the dirt of the earth, the same dirt where, elsewhere in Genesis, God condemns the slithering path of the serpent who tempted Eve. It is a humble origin, to say the least. 
Abraham’s confession is, perhaps, an instructive first Ash Wednesday, an outer acknowledgment of what he knows in his heart to be true –– that his life is, at some level, ash, and that his dusty beginning will also be his dusty end. To mark our origin and destiny as dust is a courageous acceptance of what is real and, ultimately, beyond our control –– “we are dust and to dust we shall return.” And yet, we must say more. We must note that Abraham’s humble confession is only half the truth, for the very same Genesis 2:7, which notes that God formed the first human being from a heap of ash, continues, “… and then God breathed into the human being’s nostrils the breath of life, and the being became a living being.” Not mere dust and ashes , but rather, as St. Paul writes, “Within these earthen vessels, we contain a treasure.” And the treasure is nothing less that God’s spirit. 
Abraham, indeed, seems keen to the point, for immediately after acknowledging his humble origin, he begins to negotiate with God about the future of Sodom. In a truly startling scene for any God-fearing reader, Abraham reminds God, who is about to wipe out the city, that He has claimed to be a just and compassionate deity, and wonders to the face of his Creator, “Will not the Just Judge of the World do what is right?” 
What kind of creature is this, who in one breath acknowledges his most humble and ephemeral nature, and in the next breath, dares to remind his own Maker of the right way to conduct His affairs? Could it be that in the exterior acknowledgement of this profound truth about ourselves –– that we are mere dust and ash –– a still deeper identity is revealed? That into this dust and ash, God has breathed God’s own divine spirit, and, as a result, we have become nothing less than co-adjudicators with God, called to negotiate and work, with God in building a kingdom of justice 
The implications of Lenten conversion 
The Christian gospel is perceived as para­doxical, almost unrealistic, because it propos­es a way of life which is not governed by the virtues so highly prized by our technocratic society: success, efficiency, immediate gratifi­cation and control. The Christian 
Michael Heintz 
gospel is not 

GuestColum nist 
about success (gaze briefly at a crucifix for verification) it is highly inefficient, frequently delays gratification and encour­ages us to relinquish our obsession with con­trol to One whom we cannot see. 
If unlearning ingrained habits and replac­ing them with new ways of thinking, feeling and doing is central to our faith “journey,” my purpose is to point out three pitfalls of mod­ern Christian living, which, in my limited experience, can have debilitating effects. 
The first unconverted tendency is to think that we “earn our salvation.” This may find its roots in our American work ethic, as though our salvation is a commodity we can, with the right effort, acquire; it is as though we can somehow wow God by our behavior. Unfortunately, Pelagianism is not a new idea. Salvation is not something we can earn or achieve. 
It is a grace, which means gift. Our task is simply to receive it that way. I am not sug­gesting we say, “I accept Jesus as my Savior,” and think our work is done. Obviously, this gift, offered by God in Christ, requires an active response of assimilation to him who gave himself for us, indicated through how we live, behave, and choose. 
But it is imperative to remember that the initiative is on God’s side. God has to do most of the work; in fact, in Christ, he has already done so. Our task is to rely upon his grace as we muddle toward his Kingdom for which we pray, and, by our baptism, have also implicat­ed. When we put the emphasis on our strengths and abilities, we are bound to fall into one of two dead ends: Focus on personal accomplishment, like the self-righteous and judgemental Pharisees caricatured in the Gospel, or forget we are bound for failure without His help when we put all the pres­sure on ourselves. 
This leads to one of the most challenging aspects of the spiritual life: discouragement. Discouragement itself creates a vicious cycle of failed attempts and dejection, which can lead to despair. We cannot, and must not, try to earn our salvation. Christ did that once for all. We must learn to humbly rely upon God's help so we transform through grace into the image of Christ, his Son. 
The second pitfall is the tendency to think that religion is a private affair between “me and Jesus.” This ingrained tendency of thought undoubtedly has its remote origins in the rugged individualism which is part of American culture. While religious faith is and should be quite personal, it is never private. That is, our experience of Christian faith is mediated through a community of faith. This is why there is RCIA; it involves the whole parish or university community, not simply Fr. Smith instructing Mr. or Ms. Jackson. That is why very frequently Catholic children’s first penance is experienced as a communal cele­bration: there are, in a certain sense, no “pri­vate” sins. While perhaps unknown to anyone else in the community, my sins nonetheless have an impact on the community –– if I am less of a person because of my sins, the whole community suffers because I am an integral part of that community. 
Understanding our Christian faith as a social or even organic phenomenon is crucial. Our experience of Jesus is, in fact, mediated through sacraments –– public and discrete rituals of the Church which bring us into con­tact with Jesus himself. That meeting place with Jesus is always within community; grace and requires a human or created agent. On a very practical level, we desperately need one another: for support and for a shared sense of what is true and good. 
In fact, Christian hope envisions an eternal life with God which is intrinsically social –– it will not be “me gazing at Jesus,” but all of those who love God in communion with one another in Christ. Heaven is innately social. Perhaps an apt metaphor for hell is precisely the opposite: if original sin is fundamentally self-love, in hell we get exactly what we've always wanted –– ourselves (and only our­selves) for all eternity: a grim prospect. 
The third pitfall is to want to be perfect “right now.” Rooted in our desire for immedi­acy (we are, after all, the culture of the microwave, the Internet, the iPad, and the drive-thru) and our hatred of ambiguity, we want to be and feel perfect right away. This is an occupation hazard, especially for recent converts and persons returning from a retreat experience. They have seen the mountain-top, and they want to stay there. Unfortunately, life almost never works that way. The first symptoms of spiritual aridity begin to “feel” less religious, less “spiritual.” And after an attempt to become “Mother Teresa” or “John Paul II” overnight, they become disillusioned and discouraged. It is best to look at our spiritual life more as a continuum than “freeze-dried” moments of grace or sin. Spiritual life is about growth, so baby steps are more reliable than blind leaps. St. Thomas Aquinas observed that it is better to limp along the right road than to run head­long down the wrong road. And he was wise. 
Realistic expectations about ourselves, and others, are essential as we seek to live in this world of ambiguity, complexity, and imperfec­tion. In fact, we need to redefine spiritual life from being searching for immediate perfec­tion to “learning to be imperfect well.” That is why the image of the Church as a pilgrim is so apposite: we may not yet have arrived, but we are certainly on our way. 
These are three significant challenges which face us as we await the fullness of God’s Kingdom, begun in Christ, but yet unfulfilled. As we learn to live here as mem­bers of his Kingdom, sharing in the truth he has revealed to us about ourselves, rather than accommodating the Gospel to our own limited and fallen imagination, we will, even if unawares, engage in evangelization. I am not talking about the “in your face” tech­niques of overly argumentative people who are more annoying than effective. By evange­lization I mean the calm, steady and stable behavior of a people who know they have found the Truth –– and love him. 
Michael Heintz is the director of Divinity in the theology department. He can reached at michael.w.heintz.4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
and mercy? 
No wonder Isaiah will later bristle at the Israelites’ attempt to reduce their ashing to mere self-effacement: “Thus says the Lord: Is this the manner of fasting I wish? That a man bow his head like a reed and lie in sackcloth and ashes? Do you call this a fast? This, rather, is the fasting I wish: releasing those bound unjustly, setting free the oppressed, sheltering the homeless and clothing the naked when you see them.” 
By now, Wednesday’s ashes have faded from our brows. Like the pimply signs of our adolescence, our Ash Wednesday marks eventually give way to a deeper identity. We do not, after all, return merely to dust. On the other end of Lent awaits the Resurrection, and the unleashing of the Spirit within us at Pentecost. Our deep­est identity, Ash Wednesday reminds us, is that we are vessels of the Spirit. 
Before the ashes, upon our brows splashed the water and oil of our baptism, which set us free from sin and death. Not ultimately bound by the ephemeral nature of dust and ash, our lives in Christ are des­tined for, in the last word of William Wallace: freedom. 
Fr. Lou DelFra is the director of Bible studies for Campus Ministry and pastoral director of the ACE program. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Zahm 
If you ever want to see your precious moose again, you will wire 50,000 flex points to my account at the National Bank of the Maldives, Account Number: 43.665­110.718. 
More De Grasta for us Knott Men. 
P.S. In no way shape or form is the above account number the latitudinal and longitudinal coordinates of your estranged moose. 
Nick Civetta 
Senior 
off campus 
Mar. 9 


The Observer 
Scene
page 8 Thursday, March 10, 2011 



By TROY MATHEW Runners will receive a performance T-Also in the theme of improvement, Tate be present at the race to answer any Scene Writer shirt instead of a regular T-shirt, along hopes to heighten community involve-questions, fostering a highly interactive with coupons and promotions from the ment in this year’s Holy Half. The previ-donation experience. For Tate, the social 
Looking for substantial exercise, a 
race’s sponsors, which are still being ous four races donated proceeds to the service aspect of the race is truly evoca­
great way to support the community or 
determined. Runners may also enjoy a Broadmoor Improvement Associaton, a tive of the Notre Dame community. 
possible lakeside entertainment from a 
unique form of race-time entertainment. cause devoted to rebuilding New Orleans “I feel like [the Holy Half] represents 
Mariachi band? Look no further than 
“ W e ’ r e after the destruc-what Notre Dame stands for. This is a big 
Notre Dame’s 2011 Holy Half Marathon. 
trying to get tion of Hurricane athletics school, and everyone is involved 
Its flyers advertise this year’s race as 
a Mariachi Katrina. The 2011 with that, so it has that aspect, but it also 
“bigger, better and holier” than ever. 
band to per-race has a more deals with social concerns which a lot of 
“We’ve added a lot of improvements 
form around local philanthrop-the students here find important,” Tate 
over last year. We’re trying to build this 
the lakes for ic focus. said. 
year’s race up as more of an event,” Holy 
r u n n e r s , “The three As a four-year runner and three-year 
Half co-director Gabby Tate said in an 
which I charities the race co-director, Tate traces her interest for 
interview with the Observer. 

think will be will support are directing the event back to her experi-
USA Track and Field will certify the 
really fun. St. Adalbert ence as a freshman. 
2011 Holy Half’s 13.1-mile route for 
We’re also School, Michiana “When I ran [the Holy Half] my fresh-
accuracy in order to avoid an unforeseen 
working on Down Syndrome man year, I just thought it was a really 
mishap that occurred in the previous 
g e t t i n g and South Bend’s important and fun event,” she said. “That 
year’s race. 

things like Center for the really inspired me to take on more 
“Last year, there was some construc­
water bot-Homeless. Each responsibility with the race. [Co-director] 
tion on campus we didn’t get notice of, so 
tles and charity will be Sean Kickham and I have been involved 
the route ended up being shorter than 
b u m p e r manning a water ever since.” 
planned,” Tate said. 

stickers for the runners,” Tate said. station, so they really have a lot of The race will take place April 10 at 10 
Changes have been added in order to 
Entertainment can be found in the live-involvement in the race,” Tate said. a.m. Participants can sign up for either 
make the Holy Half a more memorable 
ly student-runner crowd as well. Hyped Race participants will also have a the half marathon or 10K race. Runners 
and special experience for the runner as 
as a costume contest, the race spurs stu-unique method of donation. can register on the day of the race start-
well. 

dents to get creative in their attire. A “The theme of this year’s race is ‘Who ing at 8 a.m., or by visiting nd.edu/~holy­
“Last year I think we made some sacri­
group of Waldos, a man in a Scooby Doo are you running for?’ and runners will half/ 
fices at the expense of the participants, so 
costume and a ghost, complete with a get to pick which specific charity their 
that’s something we’re trying to avoid for 
sheet over his head, were among last money goes toward.” Tate said. Contact Troy Mathew at 
this year’s race,” Tate said. 

year’s costumed participants. Representatives from each charity will tmathew2@nd.edu 


Finishing the 13.1 miles of a half marathon can be a momentous and exciting accomplishment — or pure torture for the unprepared. Follow these tips to ensure your stride across Troy Mathew the finish line is a triumphant Scene Writer one rather than an agonizing crawl. 
Create a shameless playlist 
A good playlist is essential to maintain focus and energy throughout the race. Keep in mind, however, that “good” is relative. Don’t be self-conscious about your race-day music choices. If Miley or similar sick-eningly-sweet pop music gets you amped, crank it up. The purpose of the playlist is to keep you motivated and block out the clomping feet and gasping lungs surrounding you during the race, not to show off your Indie music cred. The running playlist can be considered a judgment-free zone — unless of course your playlist contains Nickelback. In that case, I will judge you heavily. 
Invest in looking legit 
We’ve all seen the jeans-wearing gym goers, and we all know the dis­dain they garner. These unfortunate, and endearingly clueless, patrons of the gym give us a valuable lesson: avoid looking like a joke. Invest in nice running shoes and clothes. Not only will you look the part of a half-marathoner, but your quality gear will last you through the extensive train­ing process and beyond. Plus, buying fancy new gear will spur you to go out training more often to show it off. 
Stick to your routine 
Everyone develops a routine through his or her training, and whether it’s a pre-race burrito or an intensive stretching regime, you need to stick to what works for you. While a substantial meal rich in carbohy­drates a few hours before the race is generally a good idea, there’s no one-

size-fits-all, race-day routine. With that in mind, don’t get too caught up in what information your frantic Google search brings. Develop your own system and stick to what works for your body. 
Find a Friend 

To the ultra-competitive Notre Dame student, a place at the back of the pack can be a source of much chagrin. Take advantage of this quali­ty by training with a group. The group process will not only motivate you to stick to your training, but it will help you develop a consistent running pace that you will be able to maintain come race day. Running the race itself with a friend or two will keep you inspired as well and help you to regulate your pace. However, if you feel your friend is the proverbial dead weight, you have my permission to guiltlessly leave him or her in the dust. 
The taper 
Arguably the most important part of a training routine, the taper is the period of time a week or two before the race where workouts gradually light­en and physical activity greatly decreases. This period of time allows your muscles to fully heal from the strain of running and conserves valuable energy for the big day. 
Dress for anything 
The Holy Half takes place smack-dab in the middle of spring, meaning the volatile weather can range from bliz­zard conditions to balmy humid­ity. Last year’s race was ideal running weather: dry and 
around 40 degrees. However, the unpredictable conditions do not guar­antee the same will be true for this year’s race. When in doubt, under dress. The temperature will feel much warmer once you start running, and shedding layers of clothing during the race is not always a possibility. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, March 10, 2011 page 9 

There is no way to avoid pop music. It’s  meeting with chums at Waddicks, one of  of my friends share stalwart opinions as  every second we are not asleep. When  
your ringtone. It’s on your iPod when you  my friends expressed deep consternation  they debated the poetic merit of Perry vs.  those waking moments happen in the pub- 
walk to class. It pumps into your bathroom  about the fact that Katy Perry’s song “Last  Far East Movement. The music major in  lic sphere, we are going to hear pop music  
while you shower. It plays constantly at  Friday Night” is not as popular as, say,  me had passed incredulity and ended  and develop a relationship with it whether  
Waddicks, Sbarro and in your earbuds  “Firework.” She was upset because, in her  somewhere around mild mental engage- we want to or not.  
while you study. It  opinion, the lyrics of “Last Friday Night”  ment. This is pop music, I was thinking.  So how does a pop song succeed in  
has become ubiqui­ are far more interesting.  Who on earth cares about the lyrics of pop  worming its way into our ears 24/7? I  
tous within the  “There’s a stranger in my bed/There’s a  music, as long as you can sing along?  think all a pop song needs is a good musi­ 
undergraduate  pounding my head/Glitter all over the  This brings me to the tantrum of the day,  cal hook and a dance beat. Au contraire,  
lifestyle.  room/Pink flamingos in the pool/I smell like  specifically the purpose of pop music and  mes amis. As I found out, if you can’t sing  
But pop songs,  a minibar/DJ’s passed out in the yard” are  its necessary position within our 18-to 22­ along to it — and enjoy singing along to it  
specifically those  just a smattering of the lyrics my friend so  year-old society. A pop song provides an  — it’s going to fail.  
songs that are  passionately defended as she read them in  isolated event that, at any given moment,  I come from a camp that considers pop  
undeniably “pop­ declamatory fashion from her Blackberry.  can surround us with memory and com- songs to contain the mindless dribble of  
ular” regardless Stephanie DePrezof musical merit  My other friend decided to step up to defend a song he felt was far superior,  munity. We hear a song and think of where we first heard it, when we memorized the  half-annunciated hipster-pop slang. But apparently, I’m wrong. People listen to  
or your opinion, Scene Writer  “Like a G6” by … do we even care?  lyrics to it and who we were with when we  lyrics and care about them, no matter how  
have a very  “Poppin bottles in the ice, like a  were dancing to it last weekend. It causes  bad they sound during a dry-run recita­ 
detailed role within our collegiate society.  blizzard/When we drink we do it right get- immediate recall and emotional associa­ tion. As displayed by the conversation I  
Their purpose, far and wide, is to create a  tin slizzard/Sippin’ sizzurp in my ride, like  tion, which in most cases brings up a posi­ witnessed yesterday, lyrics matter.  
common touchstone of community that  Three 6/Now I’m feelin’ so fly like a G6.”  tive correlation.  
can be recognized and shared within any  His argument seemed to center on the  The second attribute of this banal beast  The views expressed in this column are  
context, and the only way that happens is  fact that “G6” remains focused on a singu­ is that popular music can play alongside  those of the author and not necessarily  
if the lyrics are good enough to be remem­ lar topic, whereas “Last Friday Night” is  our lives in literal soundtrack fashion.  those of The Observer.  
bered.  far too busy, lyrically.  Apart from the moments we are in class,  Contact Stephanie DePrez at  
Yesterday at my breakfast and coffee  I sat in not-so-silent awe, watching two  we can surround ourselves with music  sdeprez@nd.edu  


By CHRIS COLLUM an interview with the entertainment website However, it’s hard for Lupe to try capture might have the most irritating hook heard in Scene Writer Boxden.com last week, he went on the that sort of lightning in a bottle when paired quite a while, or “Break the Chain,” a 
record about “Lasers.” with artists like Trey Songz over beats that spacey number that just drags on and on. 
After over three years of silence following “One thing I try to stress about [Lasers] is, he didn’t even choose. For any other mid-Beyond that, there are about half a dozen his critically acclaimed sophomore album I love and hate this album,” Lupe said. “I lis-level hip-hop star, this album would work so-so tracks that would shine on most other “Lupe Fiasco’s The Cool” — a loose concept ten to it and I’ll like some of the songs. But perfectly well, but for Lupe it just sounds emcee’s albums, but coming from Lupe album following the inner-city exploits of a when I think about what it took to actually awkward. sound forced and somewhat distant. character named “The Cool” — Lupe Fiasco get the record together … I hate this album. Tense political verses have no place cou-Blaming Lupe for any of this seems unfair returns this week with “Lasers.” A lot of the songs that are on the album, I’m pled with a Skylar Green hook, such as in though, given his statements about 
But in those three intervening years, Lupe kinda neutral to … I know the sneaky busi-second single “Words I Never Said.” That “Lasers.” Let’s just hope that next time has hardly been sitting still. ness deal that went down behind this song, track is saved by some of Lupe’s best rap-around he’s working by his own rules, so 
He fought (and lost) a not-so-private battle or the artist or singer or songwriter who ping to date (see: one-liners such as “And that maybe we can get the instant classic he of wills with his label, Atlantic, over contrac-wrote this hook and didn’t want to give me this ain’t Jersey Shore / Homie it’s the news), still has in him. tual issues that resulted in the delaying of this song in the first place.” but just seems strange. The lyrics of the 
Contact Chris Collum at

“Lasers” and the scrapping of his three-It is not often that an artist comes out so hook seem unrelated to the rest of the song. 
ccollum@nd.edu

album “LupE.N.D.” concept. Lupe also had publicly against his or her own album There is still room for some classic Lupe 
an original song featured on the “Twilight: before it is even released. Needless to say, on “Lasers” though. “Till I Get There” New Moon” soundtrack — one of the few this is far from a glowing recommendation sounds like a throwback to his debut album. hip-hop artists on the soundtrack. for “Lasers.” “All Black Everything” shows the same kind 
These events, not surprisingly, baffled On the opener, “Letting Go,” Lupe echoes of social consciousness we have come to some of his longtime fans who still thought these sentiments, sounding frustrated, even expect from Lupe. of Lupe as an “underground” rapper not caged as he raps “My self-portrait / Shows a Even on songs that Lupe has come out embroiled in major label shenanigans and man that the wealth tortured / Self-against, saying that he was practically blockbuster movie soundtracks. Naturally, absorbed with his own self” in the opening forced into recording over the track, he still anticipation was high for “Lasers,” with bars before repeating “I’m getting out of kills it usually. Smash hit Modest Mouse-many fans fearing a contract-fulfilling cor-control” in the hook. sampling of the first single, “The Show Goes porate byproduct. Unfortunately, a large This kind of back-against-the-wall desper-On,” is a stellar effort, and album closer portion of “Lasers” fits that description quite ateness fits very well given Lupe’s recent “Never Forget You,” while certainly different well. struggles, and it seems like it would be a for Lupe, is great as well, featuring a beauti-
However, Lupe apparently still thinks of natural progression for someone cast so ful chorus from John Legend. himself as a less mainstream musician as abruptly out of the underground into the But then there are the painful-to-listen-to well — Atlantic Records thinks otherwise. In limelight. tracks, such as “State Run Radio,” which 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 10, 2011 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Tourney format presents seeding challenges 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — NCAA selection committee chairman Gene Smith hopes he’s seen the last of this week’s compli­cations. 
The Ohio State athletic director is already dealing with a scandal in his own football program and a delayed arrival in Indianapolis. Two committee members are also dealing with what Smith calls “signifi­cant” personal issues he did-n’t specify and Wednesday’s news conference had techni­cal difficulties. 
And Smith’s committee has­n’t even gotten to the hard part yet — selecting the first 68-team field in NCAA tourna­ment history. 
“This committee is very close, very cohesive and we’re supported very well by the NCAA staff,” Smith said. “I’m ready to roll.” 
This will not be just another typical selection weekend for Smith and the other nine com­mittee members. 
They’ll spend the next five days holed up in an Indianapolis hotel trying to find the 37 best at -large teams — three more than pre­vious years — and then seed all 68 properly. 
Nobody’s perfect, and it’s never easy, but this year’s selection process could be more challenging and face more scrutiny. 
Why? 
The new format has created added some different debates to the regular mix of who is in and who is out. 
Some believe the Big East should get a record 11 bids, raising concerns about whether the expanded field has simply become a way to get more teams from the six power conferences into the field. 
Plus, Smith’s committee will likely face criticism about which teams play in next week’s four opening-round games in Dayton, Ohio. Two games will feature the bottom four seeds in the tourney while the other two will fea­ture the last four at -large teams. 
The NCAA has dubbed this group the First Four, though those eight team probably will not feel the same way. Smith has already prepared some answers. 
“We will go through one through 68 and we’re very confident that the 35th, 36th, 37th slots that the at-large teams going to Dayton will be excited to go,” he said. “Every single year we evaluate what we did the previous year. Anything that we feel we need to modify based on that expe­rience we’ll modify.” 
Smith is getting pretty good at adapting on the fly. 
On Tuesday night, he attended a hastily called news conference to announce Buckeyes coach Jim Tressel had been suspended for two games and fined $250,000 for violating NCAA rules. Tressel, school officials said, waited more than nine months before notifying school compliance officials about his players’ involvement in selling signed memorabilia in exchange for money and tattoos. 
After that news conference, Smith drove from Columbus, Ohio, to Indy for the selection marathon. 
Then, Wednesday morning, while Smith was making his opening statement to reporters, things went awry. 
“We’re excited to select the 37 at-large teams coupled with the 31 automatic quali­fiers,” he said, before the phone line went dead. 
Two or three minutes later, Smith was back explaining what had happened and what he would and would not dis­cuss. 
“Sorry we had some techni­cal difficulties, we had to move to a different room,” he said. “I know there may be people out there who may want to ask questions about the Ohio State University case. Please, I ask that you be respectful. I’m here today as chair of the men’s basketball committee. Those questions are reserved for later days.” 
Bear in mind, too, that the Buckeyes men’s basketball team is currently ranked No. 1 and could wind up the tour­ney’s top overall seed. Smith will need to leave the room when Ohio State is discussed, per committee rules. 
But even without that, it will be complicated enough trying to sift through all the data and this week’s conference tournaments to devise a 68­team bracket everyone likes. 
“Really, there’s 5,000 games played throughout the sea­son,” he said. “You might be able to have an impact in your first (tourney) game, maybe your second game. The reality is that most teams that will be advantaged by the tourna­ment are those who come through and win it.” 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Slighted Walker carries slumping Huskies to big win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Kemba Walker keeps getting slighted by his Big East brethren — and he keeps making everybody he faces pay for it. 
Walker scored 28 points in another stellar performance Wednesday, leading the 21st­ranked Huskies past No. 22 Georgetown 79-62 and into the conference tournament quar­terfinals. 
Many consider Walker a favorite for national player of the year honors, yet he wasn’t even a unanimous first-team All-Big East selection — at least one opposing coach left him off his ballot. And when the conference announced its player of the year Tuesday, it was Notre Dame star Ben Hansbrough who stepped up to the microphone and accepted the award. 
“I think someone took a vaca­tion and didn’t tell us and has been gone five months. That’s one theory of mine,” replied UConn coach Jim Calhoun, when asked how Walker could be overlooked among the five best players in the league. 
“Whether we have a player of the year or not,” Calhoun con­tinued, “I think he’s the best player in the country, and that should be more important.” 
UConn had been struggling coming into New York City, los­ing four of its last five regular-season games. But with Walker putting together two masterful performances and the Huskies getting some inspired inside play for the first time in weeks, they appear capable of becom­ing the first team to reach championship Saturday after starting off on Tuesday. 
Walker had 26 points, seven rebounds and five assists in their opener against DePaul. He only had 11 points at half­time Wednesday, but dominat­ed the final 20 minutes, eclips­ing Richard Hamilton for fourth on the school’s single-season scoring list in the process. The league’s second-leading scorer has 748 points this season — with at least a couple games still to go. 
“We’re coming to play it all,” said Walker, who also had six rebounds and three assists against Georgetown. “Right now we’re in a great situation. Pittsburgh beat us at Pittsburgh, and we want to redeem ourselves, so we’re not going to let no fatigue beat us.” 
Yes, the Huskies get top-seed­ed Pitt next. 
The last three times the two teams met in the Big East tour­nament, they were playing for the conference championship 
— including 2004, the last time the Huskies won the title. 
“I would hope after these two wins and coming in we have a little momentum going, and we know who we’re facing,” Calhoun said. “We have a great opportunity to beat a terrific, terrific basketball team in Madison Square Garden. What’s better than that?” 
Jason Clark had 23 points and Austin Freeman scored 20 to lead the Hoyas (21-10), but the backcourt duo combined to go 2 for 13 from beyond the 3­point arc. They also got virtual­ly no production from Julian Vaughn in the post. He was scoreless in 12 minutes. 
“We’re still a confident team,” Freeman said. “We just need to get back on track.” 
It would help if the Hoyas get Chris Wright back for the NCAA tournament. 
The senior guard spent another afternoon on the bench dressed in a suit, with a brace on his broken left hand. He was hurt Feb. 23 at Cincinnati, and coach John Thompson III has been hoping that Wright will be available for the rest of the postseason. 
“We miss Chris, absolutely, 100 percent, both ends of the court, in every way,” Thompson before Roscoe Smith scored his said. “The group that’s playing only basket to start a 22-7 now, that played to today, has spurt for UConn. By the time to be better.” Jeremy Lamb hit a 3-pointer 

The teams were tied 15-all with 3:36 left, the Huskies had midway through the first half, pulled ahead 37-22. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we A black cat crossing your path signi-I remember the first time I had sex ­FOR RENT NOTICES can help. For more information, visit WANTED fies that the animal is going some-I kept the receipt. 
Notre Dames website: where. Future ARCHITECTS, ENGI-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? http://csap.nd.edu Earn Extra Money NEERS, TEACHERS, LAWYERS, BARDS, AMERICAN IDOLS and Don't go it alone. Students needed ASAP. I have had a perfectly wonderful I worked my way up from nothing to other studious Bohemians. Write evening, but this wasn't it. a state of extreme poverty. 
PERSONAL 
your next soliloquy at one of our off Notre Dame has many resources in Earn up to $150 per day being a campus homes. Check out: place to assist you. If you or some-Mystery Shopper. www.IrishDwellings.com to find your one you love needs confidential SPRING BREAK SPECIAL-I intend to live forever, or die trying. home for summer and/or fall support or assistance, please call No Experience Required. I've got the brain of a four year old. semester 2011-2012 and beyond. Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more Taxi to airport or Amtrak. I must confess, I was born at a very I'll bet he was glad to be rid of it. $200 credit to first month rent if information, visit ND's website at: Group rates as low as $6ea. early age. lease signed before spring break. http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 574-360-6480 Call 1-888-534-5008 ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NBA 

Jackson sympathizes with Heat 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — It has come to this: Even Phil Jackson is offering a sympathetic word to the reeling Miami Heat. 
The coach of the two-time defending champion Los Angeles Lakers has taken plen­ty of jabs at the Heat in recent months, over everything from how this roster was put togeth­er, Erik Spoelstra’s job security, and this week the already-infa­mous episode dubbed “Crygate.” 
So on Wednesday, with the Heat in a five-game losing streak, Jackson stood on their home floor and had ample opportunity to poke Miami again. 
He went the other way instead. 
“From what I’ve heard, this team feels like they’re being looked at to lose, or they’ve been hoped at to lose,” Jackson said before the Lakers prac­ticed for their Thursday game in Miami. “I know locally that can’t stand true, but nationally, if that’s the case, it’s a burden to carry. And then those games that are dramatic become big­ger than they really should be.” 
That certainly seems to be the case around Miami these days. 
Not even two weeks ago, the Heat were in a virtual tie with Boston for the top spot in the Eastern Conference. Miami hasn’t won since, falling to third in the East, 4½ games behind the Celtics and two games behind the Chicago Bulls. Even the No. 3 seed in the East playoffs isn’t exactly assured, with Orlando starting play Wednesday three games behind the Heat. 

It’s a freefall, and the Heat know that when they lose games, most of the NBA is thrilled. So Wednesday’s prac­tice wasn’t about licking wounds, Spoelstra said. The Heat needed to simply get back to work. 
“Less talk, more action,” Spoelstra said. 
Oh, there was plenty of talk­ing as well. 
Miami lost to Portland 105-96 on Tuesday night, after which Wade suggested he’d like to see rotation changes and Bosh insisted he would be demand­ing the ball more often down low. And on Wednesday, those themes hadn’t changed much: Spoelstra took the rare step of immediately watching Tuesday’s game in his office afterward, and Bosh was plan­ning to chat with Wade and James. 
“We’re all in this together, but at the end of the day, we know what people are going to be looking at,” Bosh said. “And we know who’s going to get the fin­ger pointed at them first. And rightfully so — we asked for this, coming together, and we knew that coming into the situ­ation. We take the responsibili­ty of it. It is what it is, no mat­ter what we say, no matter what we do.” 
Lakers forward Lamar Odom said the Heat plight is one of the biggest stories in sports right now. Considering who was offering opinions on the Heat a few miles away on Wednesday, he may be right. 
Tiger Woods — with his own winless drought to deal with — weighed in on the state of the Heat from nearby Doral, where he’ll play in this week’s World Golf Championships-Cadillac Championship. 
“They are trying to jell and obviously they are adding pieces,” Woods said. “I mean, as soon as they become more cohesive, they add (Mike) Bibby, so it’s going to take a lit­tle time. They have 18, 19 games left in the season, some­where around there. They have plenty of time to turn it around and get rolling for the playoffs.” 
The Lakers head into Thursday as the league’s hottest team, winners of eight straight. 
But even the champs have had their issues at times this season, mild ones anyway, with a four-game slide and a pair of three-game losing streaks on their resume. 
That last three-game slump ended with the embarrassing pre-All-Star-break loss in Cleveland. The Lakers haven’t lost since, with five of their eight victories since the break ended coming by double digits. 
“The difference between us is that we all know what our roles are,” Lakers guard Kobe Bryant said. “They’re still try­ing to figure that out.” 
Clearly, that’s the case. Bibby was added essentially in place of Carlos Arroyo at point guard. James Jones, Eddie House and Zydrunas Ilgauskas have large­ly fallen out of the rotation at times, and Miami’s bench is struggling — getting outscored 41-8 by the Trail Blazers and a stunning 149-51 in the last four games. 
“One thing for sure about this team, we won’t go down with­out a fight,” Ilgauskas said. “And we’ll keep on fighting.” 
NBA 
Rose leads Bulls to win over Bobcats 

Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Derrick Rose and Kyle Korver scored 20 points apiece and the Chicago Bulls pulled away in the fourth quarter to beat the Charlotte Bobcats 101-84 on Wednesday night, a victory dimmed by Carlos Boozer’s leg injury. 
Korver had 12 points in the final period and Joakim Noah added 12 points and 13 rebounds for the Bulls, who won for the 11th time in 13 games and expanded their hold on second place in the Eastern Conference to 2½ games over slumping Miami. 
Boozer limped off late in the game after his left leg bent awk­wardly on a flagrant foul by Kwame Brown and didn’t return. 
Gerald Henderson had 20 points and eight assists for the Bobcats, who played again without Stephen Jackson and Tyrus Thomas in their sixth straight loss. 
The Bobcats, the only sub-.500 team to beat Chicago more than once this season, faded late before Brown’s foul sapped a joyous mood for the Bulls. 
Boozer, who had 10 points and seven rebounds despite early foul trouble, was going in for a layup as Chicago led by 17 points when Brown swiped and hit him across the chest. Boozer grabbed his leg as soon as he tumbled to the floor before limping slowly to the bench. 
After being examined, it was determined he was unable to take the free throws and was helped to the locker room. 
Charlotte knows all about injuries as its season begins to slip away. 
The Bobcats played a third straight game without their top scorer Jackson (hamstring), and 24th without sixth man Thomas (knee surgery), despite coach Paul Silas declaring both ready to play a day earlier. 
Backup center Joel Przybilla was then scratched before the game because of increased pain in his surgically repaired right knee. And with guard Matt Carroll (ankle ) sidelined, Charlotte had 10 healthy bodies. 
Still, the Bulls took a while before they wore down Charlotte. 
With former Bulls star and Bobcats owner Michael Jordan sitting courtside, Henderson did a decent impersonation of his boss on a twisting reverse layup along the baseline in a third quarter that saw Charlotte take a 68-67 lead on another hoop by Henderson. 



page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 10, 2011 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

Irish to compete in Tenn. 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After several months off, the Irish are eager for the return of warmer weather and warmer waters. Notre Dame will get both Sunday when it travels to Oak Ridge, Tenn. to take on Alabama and Minnesota. 
The Crimson Tide possesses the advantage of climate, as they rowed outdoors in the colder months when lakes and rivers are frozen further north. The Golden Gophers also present a difficult challenge, having already defeated the Irish in a few races at the Head of the Rock Regatta in October. 
Irish coach Martin Stone said his squad is looking forward to facing Minnesota again. 
“I think they’re pretty solid,” he said of the Golden Gophers. “They got us pretty good up at the Head of the Rock so we’ll be interested to see how they race.” 
Though forced inside for much of the offseason between the fall and spring seasons, the Irish delivered on some goals from 2010. Stone said the individual fitness aspect of winter workouts has yielded some impressive results. 
“I think we’ve accomplished a lot of [our] goals,” Stone said. “We’re still doing testing this week. We’ve had some personal bests and people are working hard. I feel pretty good.” 
According to Stone, boats have yet to be finalized because his staff does not yet have adequate racing experience on which to determine groupings. He said the lineups in Tennessee will almost 
MEN’S TENNIS 

certainly not be the same throughout the season. 
“We’re just kind of subjectively putting people in boats based on how we think they’ll race,” he said. “I imagine things will change, though. We’ve been a long time out of the water and we still need to see how people perform.” 
The Irish will bring a few proven commodities to Oak Ridge this weekend. Senior tri­captains Emily Crosby, Stephanie Gretsch and Carol Ann Michel all participated as members of the varsity eight boat in the fall. Stone said his squad can look to the entire senior class as models of success. 
“As a whole, our senior class has done a wonderful job this year of doing everything the right 

Irish face off against No. 11 Kentucky Wildcats 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off the program’s biggest victory in nearly a decade, the No. 25 Irish hope to carry that momentum into their matches next week at the U.S National Junior Team exhibition match and a critical road trip to Lexington, Ky. 
Notre Dame (10-7) defeated No. 6 Illinois, 5-2 Tuesday evening, after failing to put together a complete match against a top opponent earlier in the season. 
“It was a big win for us,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. 
Prior to the match, Sachire identified two key components to winning at the highest level in tennis, and said those factors will determine their success next week as well. 
“The first is you have to play well enough to put yourself in position to win,” he said. “And the second is having the mental toughness to finish.” 
There is no drop off in the tal­ent of the opponents the Irish will face next week. The team will travel to Boca Raton, Fla. Tuesday for the U.S. National Junior Team exhibition match. 
The contest will not count toward the team’s overall record, but the Irish still want to continue the strong play they have put forth in recent weeks. 
“Our plan is to play the starters,” Sachire said. “We don’t know the format yet — we don’t have to adhere to the typical for­mat. We’ll be taking 11 or 12 guys and want to get them all matches, but if there is a limited number, the starters will play. If we can get everyone to play, we will.” 
From Boca Raton, Notre Dame will travel to Kentucky for a Thursday match against the No. 11 Wildcats. 
“They’re a really good team,” Sachire said. “They’re at the same level as Texas A&M and Illinois, two teams we’ve seen this season. We just need to play the way we’re capable of playing.” 
With the Big East champi­onships now less than two months away, Sachire hopes to see the team play with some con­sistency the rest of the way. 
“The same keys apply the rest of the year,” he said. “We need to perform well at all seven avail­able positions where points are available.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S GOLF 
TeamtotraveltoHawaii over break for tourney 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The No. 21 Irish travel to a warmer climate this Spring Break, as they head to Kaneohe, Hawaii for the Dr. Donnis Thompson Invitational. 
After a 10th-place finish at the Central District Invitational Feb. 22, Notre 
Dame is look­ing for a stronger per­formance this time around. 
In the time since the Central District Invitational, the Irish have been able to work on their game in spite of the weather in Notre Dame’s state-
of-the-art indoor facili­ties. Senior 
“We may not be able to play outside but our facility certainly allows us to stay in top form during the rough South Bend winters.” 
Katie Conway 
senior captain 

way,” Stone said. “Emily, Stephanie and Carol Ann really just epitomize what the whole senior class has done for this program.” 
The seniors will be expected to lead their team in their quest for the same goals the Irish have always had. 
“In terms of performance-type goals, every year you are expect­ed first to compete for you con­ference title, and then the nation­al title,” Stone said. “I think it’s understood here.” 
Notre Dame will remain in Oak Ridge over Spring Break to train and will face Buffalo on Saturday before heading home. Sunday’s action begins at 11 a.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
captain Katie Conway said that the team did not go on a train­ing trip over the winter, but they kept in prime form in spite of that. 
“We have one of the best facilities in the country,” Conway said. “The facility has six hitting bays and a putting green with eight holes cut sur­rounded by synthetic rough and different lies for addition­al short game practice. 
“We can really practice every shot imaginable from right around the green, and new renovations that were recently completed added a few more different lies with a variety of synthetic grasses used.” 
Conway said the South Bend winter does not affect the team’s performance. 
“We may not be able to play outside,” Conway said, “but our facility certainly allows us 
to stay in top form during the rough South Bend winters.” 
The Irish hope their indoor facilities will allow them to compete against their opponents in Hawaii. The field of 19 teams includes a number of top-notch, warm-weather squads in No. 9 Arizona, No. 11 
Vanderbilt and No. 16 Arizona State. 
Notre Dame faces an entirely new set of competition, as no other team that played in the first event, the Central District Tournament, will also play in 
the  Dr.  Donnis  Thompson  
Invitational.  
The  Irish  tee  off  on  the  

Kaneohe Klipper course Monday. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Chiang 
continued from page 16 
dives; we just need to make small changes in technique.” 
Villaflor said the team gains confidence from improving their individual dives. He stressed the importance of displaying mental toughness in any high-pressure meet. 
“After Big Easts we went to the basics to fix anything, all the minor stuff we could change. We’ve been doing each of our weak dives that haven’t been going as well,” Villaflor said. “[Improving] increases your con­fidence. Your mental state is real­ly important and how you actual­ly finish up. All four of us [men] have really been helping out dur­ing practice, whether giving out little tips or whatever.” 

Notre Dame’s zone consists of talented squads from several schools, mainly within the Big East and the Big Ten. 
“Our zone is one of the most competitive in the country, so there will be a lot of talented divers at OSU,” Grossman said. “Overall it will be a tough meet, as we have competed against these divers at past invitational and championship meets.” 
The men’s squad is excited to compete against an elite Purdue diver with whom they have pre­viously crossed paths in junior David Boudia. 
“We’re competing with some of the best teams in the country. Purdue is really good and Indiana and OSU have one of the best teams we’ve seen. They have an Olympian at Purdue that we’ve seen a few times,” Villaflor said. “We’re all friends with each other, so it’s really great competi­tion at zones.” 
Villaflor has made an effort to make practice enjoyable by light­ening the mood in the locker room, recognizing that the sen­iors are not guaranteed competi­tion beyond this weekend. 
“We range from some guys who are more serious to others who are more lighthearted. Personally, I’ve been trying to keep it really lighthearted. I try not to build up the pressure,” Villaflor said. “It’s difficult because this could be the seniors’ last two days of diving this week­end. You want to enjoy your potentially last couple days of the season.” 
The Irish divers will begin fighting for a trip to the NCAA meet when they travel to Columbus Friday. 
Contact Megan Golden mgolden@saintmarys.edu 

FENCING 

Irish head to NCAA regionals 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
An undefeated regular sea­son comes to a head this weekend for Notre Dame, as both the men’s and women’s squads each send a group to Detroit, Mich., for the NCAA regionals at Wayne State University. 
The event serves as a quali­fier for the NCAA champi­onships, which will take place the following weekend at Ohio State in Columbus, Ohio. 
Each Irish team sends 12 athletes, four in each disci­pline, to the regional champi­onships. The coaching staff expects each fencer to qualify. 

“It is our expectation and our hope to advance 12 fencers for each team,” Irish assistant coach Marek Stepien said. “This tourna­ment features the top fencers in the east region of the NCAA.” 
Though each athlete will compete as an individual, each fencer will play a role in team play as Notre Dame fights for a national champi­onship. Each team is ranked No. 1 heading into regional play, and a national champi­onship is within sight. 
That, however, is no reason to be overconfident going into the postseason, Stepien said. 
“The fencers have to be very careful,” he said. 
“Fencing is a very psychologi­cal sport. Being No. 1 does not mean that we do not have to respect our opponent.” 
Months of hard training and focus will be tested during the two bookend weekends of spring break, as both Irish teams look to continue a tremendously successful sea­son. According to Stepien, however, this is the result of Notre Dame’s work ethic. 
“They all focus and train very hard,” Stepien said. “They want a championship.” 
The NCAA regionals compe­tition begins Saturday at Wayne State. 
Contact Conor Kelly ckelly7@nd.edu 

Aoki 
continued from page 16 
mates over the break. 
“It’s really great. Just as the average student enjoys the break from schoolwork and the academic element, it gives the players a chance to get away,” Aoki said. “Also, it gives us a chance to expe­rience, hopefully, some nice weath­er which we don’t see a lot of in South Bend.” 
The Irish are coming off a week­end at the Winthrop Invitational in Rock Hill, S.C. during which the team went 1-3 against foes Winthrop and Manhattan. For the second straight weekend, the Notre Dame offense failed to find the fire­power it possessed during the sea­son’s opening weekend. Though freshman first baseman Trey Mancini’s .323 batting average to go along with five extra-base hits 
— including two homeruns — has been a bright spot, the team’s bat­ting average has dipped to .242 on the season. Aoki said the team is working hard in practice to get back on track at the plate. 
“I think you have to stay pretty optimistic. The guys have been working hard at it, trying to make a few adjustments here and there,” he said. “Obviously, the at-bats were pretty good against Purdue and Penn State the first weekend. Then the next weekend against Seattle we struggled. It’s very much a work in progress.” 
One constant for the Irish thus far has been the pitching of week­end starters Brian Dupra, Cole Johnson and Todd Miller — all sen­iors. Each member of the trio car­ries a sub-4.00 earned-run aver­age into the upcoming weekend. As a group, the staff has displayed phenomenal control, walking just six batters in more than 60 innings of work, something Aoki said the staff has learned with experience. 
“I think it’s just that they are older guys who understand the importance of throwing strikes,” he said. 
The slate of games will be a test for the Irish, highlighted by a game with ranked Coastal Carolina March 12. The Chanticleers (7-4) are coming off a dream season for the program in which the team went 55-10 before falling to even­tual champion South Carolina in the NCAA Super Regional. Aoki said the stretch features a strong overall level of competition. 
“The level of competition is pret­ty darn good. First you have UAB, which is a team that’s on a long winning streak. Coastal Carolina is a team that’s fresh off playing in a super regional last year and they started the season with a ranking in the teens. Kent State is a team with a bunch of solid players, and UTSA just gave [No. 12] Texas all they could handle in a game [Tuesday night],” he said. “I’d say it’s a pretty good level of competi­tion.” 
The team first takes the field at 11 a.m. Saturday against UAB, before facing Coastal Carolina later that day at 2:30 p.m. The Invitational wraps up with a matchup against Kent State at 11 
a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 10, 2011 
Contest 
continued from page 16 
regular season contest, a home defeat at the hands of Western Michigan, 2-0, Feb. 26, which prevented the Irish from captur­ing the CCHA regular season championship. Though the Irish have moved on from the loss, they are still looking to use lessons from it for this series. 
“At home against a team like Western Michigan — they had a lot on the line just like we did. That’s playoff hockey, and we’re going to have to be prepared for games where the visiting goal­tender is playing extremely well,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We’re going to have to avoid frustration and certainly play more disciplined.” 
Though penalties taken is one thing the Irish hope to improve, one constant lately has been strong goaltending, with both sophomore Mike Johnson and freshman Steven Summerhays playing well in recent weeks. Johnson will continue to be the 
No.  1  netminder,  with  
Summerhays  another viable  
option.  

“Mike’s the guy I’ve looked towards as being the more expe­rienced guy in this situation,” Jackson said. “But Steven certain­ly played well enough in the last six weeks that, if necessary, he’ll be in there. It depends on if it’s a two or three game series.” 
The Irish and Lakers have met up once before in a series this season, with Notre Dame picking up a pair of 4-2 victories Oct. 14 and 15. But with those games five months behind the team, much has changed on both squads. In particular, a new goaltender has revitalized the Lakers. 
“Ever since they put the fresh­man [Kevin] Kapalka in goal, midseason or so, they’ve been a pretty good hockey team,” Jackson said. “They’ve had good success defensively. He’s definitely made a difference for their team.” 
While the length between games will change things from the first two contests the teams played against each other, there is one more factor: It’s the playoffs. 
“It’s do or die. It happens at every level, once you get to the playoffs, guys get to a new gear, and it’s just a lot more intense and a lot more physical,” Johnson said. “The speed’s faster. It’s more fun to play in the playoffs, just because of all those factors.” 
Regardless of the series result, the games will mark the last time the Irish hockey team will play on Joyce Center ice since joining Division I in 1968. Notre Dame will move into the brand new Compton Family Center next sea­son. 
Though the memories will be bittersweet, the Irish are focused solely on winning the games at hand. 
“I think it’s going to be a tough weekend,” Johnson said. “But hopefully we can have some suc­cess if we do the right things and stick to our game plan.” 
Notre Dame takes on Lake Superior State at 7:35 p.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday and, if necessary, 7:05 p.m. Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles to begin season with Florida tourney 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
With Belles coach Erin Sullivan leading the way, the team is ready to begin its sea­son with a Spring Break tour­nament in Fort Myers, Fla. 
Since becoming head coach at Saint Mary’s, Sullivan has helped her teams clinch five consecutive seasons with 20 or more wins. 
But she won’t let it go to her head. 
“I’m just making sure to focus on the small successes we have and not worry about anyone else,” Sullivan said. “We cannot control what our opponents do ... we only control what we do.” 
With 10 games scheduled through five days of the break, the team will face a range of opponents. 
“I'm not worried about any team in particular,” Sullivan said. “These games are all important to us as they give great feedback on how pre­pared we are at this stage of our season.” 
Junior Kate Mitchell said she is eager to start the season. 
“The good thing about our tournament in Florida is that we don’t really know much about our opponents,” Mitchell said, “It’s beneficial because we learn to make adjustments within the moment.” 
Senior captain Hayley Bojorquez said her team’s abili­ty to make last-minute adjust­ments against the opponents would be crucial to the team’s success this season. 
“I think our biggest problem is we fall short,” Bojorquez said. “We wait a little too long to make key adjustments. Every time we play in our season, we play double headers. In the past we have struggled to make adjustments right away and instead wait until the second time around to get it right.” 
Bojorquez said the inability to make adjustments in prior sea­sons has had a dramatic affect on the team’s results in confer­ence play. 
“I think that has been a huge factor in why we have not been able to win our conference, which is our ultimate team goal,” Bojorquez said. “We don’t fix what needs to be fixed early on so it hurts us in the end. This year we are looking to improve on that.” 
No matter what happens next week, Sullivan said she would be satisfied if her team per­forms at the highest level it can. 
“The best thing about our sport is you always have a chance to come back,” Sullivan said. “That will to win and suc­ceed is what will determine our success. Success for us isn't about winning every game, it’s about playing the best we can play and being a team through­out the highs and lows.” 
The Belles open their season Sunday against SUNY Brockport at 9 a.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Playoff 
continued from page 16 

growing pains. Freshmen are expected to tighten up on the big stage and on the road in places like North Dakota’s Ralph Engelstad Arena (capacity 11,640), Michigan’s Yost Ice Arena (capacity 6,637) and Miami (Ohio)’s Steve Cady Arena (capacity 4,000). This team struggled a couple times in those places, to be sure, but in those six intimidating away games, they went 2-3-1. That’s a pretty good performance for a team full of young guys. 
They were loose and care free all season long, oblivious to the pressures of playing with a top-10 ranking and the CCHA lead. They had no mem­ory of the disappointment of last season, and a core group of seniors in Joe Lavin, Calle Ridderwall, Ryan Guentzel and Ben Ryan guided the team to the brink of a conference title. With only one regular-season game remaining and a one-point lead over Michigan (playing on the same day), the Irish simply had to win once more against a Western Michigan team they had already beaten twice to earn the crown. It was the final regular-season game in Joyce Center history, and a vocal crowd was on hand to witness what should have been a title celebration. 
Instead of a celebration, however, the fans were left only with disappointment as Notre Dame came out flat and dropped a 2-0 decision to the Broncos. Michigan’s 5-0 victo­ry gave the Wolverines the regular-season crown and the top seed in the playoffs. 
The Irish can only hope that game was an aberration. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said his team got caught looking ahead to the playoffs. I want to believe him, and I think I do. 
There’s just this sinking feel­ing. 
Playing at home in front of a sellout crowd in the Joyce Center’s last game for a title, and the Irish get caught look­ing ahead? To what? 
In any case, going down 2-0 in the first period should have been enough of a wake-up call. Is Notre Dame going to drop the ball again this week­end because they were looking ahead to Detroit? If they lose the first game of the series, are they going to be able to come back and win two in a row? 
These questions won’t stop bothering me. I hope the freshmen aren’t starting to feel the heat. This team has played too well for too long for this season to come to a quick end. Yet, if the young guys don’t focus on the playoff games at hand, that’s just what could happen. If the problem is focus, it’s fixable. If the problem is pressure, it might not be. 
I’m still an optimist about this Notre Dame team. With a really solid group of leaders and arguably the best coach in the country behind the bench, they could certainly make a run to the Frozen Four. It wouldn’t surprise me at all. 
It’s hard for me to believe the Irish only lost because they didn’t focus against Western Michigan. I just hope I’m wrong. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer u TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, March 10, 2011 page 16 
HOCKEY 

Playoff pressure 
Notre Dame takes on 


Freshman-laden roster Lake Superior State in 
creates uncertainty as CCHA tournament 
postseason play begins 
Less than a month ago, I was 
By SAM GANS 
supremely confident this Irish 
Sports Writer 

team would win the regular-season CCHA title, storm After a one-week hiatus, Notre 
through the league playoffs and Dame returns to home ice this 
claim anoth­weekend for a second round 
er trophy in CCHA playoff matchup against 
Joe Louis Lake Superior State in the final 
Arena — round of hockey games that will 
making a ever be played at the Joyce 
serious run Center. 
at another The No. 8 Irish (21-10-5, 18-7­
Frozen Four 3-2 CCHA), who earned a first 
appearance. round bye after finishing second 
Coming into 
Allan Joseph

this week-Lakers in the best-of-three series 
in the conference, will battle the 

end’s play-for the right to move on to the 
off-opening 
Sports Writer

series Louis Arena March 18. LSSU (12­
CCHA semifinals at Detroit’s Joe 

against 15-9, 8-12-8-5), the CCHA’s No. 8 
Lake seed, advanced to the second 
Superior State, however, I have round after sweeping Ohio State 
no idea what to expect. last weekend. 
Notre Dame’s a freshman-Notre Dame will look to 
laden team, which usually rebound after falling in its last SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer means there will be some 
Freshman goalie Mike Johnson defends the net for the Irish during a 2-1 win over Bowling Green see CONTEST/page 14 Feb. 11. Johnson totalled 21 saves on the night. see PLAYOFF/page 14 

ND SOFTBALL 

Squad to travel to California for invitational tourney 
midseason tournament, it is the per-Washington and No. 6 Michigan. ing great together and going up,” as well as a school rivalry with
By JACK YUSKO 

fect opportunity to gauge where the In addition, recent injuries have Clay said. “We haven’t peaked yet, Michigan. We’ve met them in the 
Sports Writer 

team stands at this point in the sea-benched a few key players, and the which is a good thing as we can con-post season the past three years and son, said senior catcher Alexia Clay. team was dealt its first two losses tinue to improve until the regional lost each time, “Clay said. “It’s a bit 
As Spring Break approaches, the “This tournament is a great last week at the Diamond 9 Citrus hump later in the season.” of a sore spot and we’re ready to get Irish are preparing to head for opportunity to see where we need to classic. With the postseason nearing, the some revenge.” warmer climates — but the next be and if we’re there yet,” Clay said. Yet even with such a rigorous Irish are grateful for the chance to The Irish hope to build upon the week will be anything but relaxing. “We look forward to this tourna-schedule and couple of setbacks, the face solid competition before the winning streak that began last 
The team is headed to the Judi ment every year as there are always team maintains confidence. The conference tournament, as few reg-weekend as they spend the break in Garman Classic in California, an tough teams to beat and good soft-Irish came off their two consecutive ular season games remain against California playing some of their annual tournament hosted by Cal ball to be played.” losses with a three-game winning ranked opponents. stiffest competition yet. The team State Fullerton that attracts many The tournament will indeed be streak to finish out the invitational Clay said she is especially looking kicks off the tournament against top-25 softball teams from across tough. This year, the Irish (12-2) will and Clay believes things are looking forward to playing Michigan in a Oklahoma Wednesday at 4 p.m. the nation, including eight former play No. 10 Oklahoma, Cal State up. renewal of the traditional rivalry national champions. Fullerton, No. 17 Louisiana-“We’ve had a few injuries lately between the two schools. Contact Jack Yusko at 
Widely considered the premier Lafayette, New Mexico, No. 5 but have adjusted well. We’re play-“We have a bit of a softball rivalry jyusko@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Team to head south for break 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish bats have gone cold in their past six games, but the team will head to warm climates and try to get hot at the plate as they play eight games in nine days over Spring Break. 
Notre Dame (4-6) will compete against UAB, No. 24 Coastal Carolina and Kent State in the Caravelle Resort Classic in Conway, S.C., and against Iowa and Gonzaga in the Irish Classic in San Antonio. The team will also face off against Texas-San Antonio in a regular game between the two tournaments. 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said it would be beneficial for his team to hit the road and play in warm cli­
see AOKI/page 13 


ND SWIMMING & DIVING 
Irishtosendswimmers to NCAA qualifiers 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
The final practices are in the books, and the Irish are pre­pared to extend the seniors’ final season by bringing a solid per­formance to the NCAA Zone qualifying meet in Columbus, Ohio. 
Eager to earn her spot in the NCAA meet, sophomore Jenny Chiang said the Irish are confi­dent in the two women and four men from Notre Dame who will be competing in the zone meet. 
“I think we have a very strong team between [senior] Heidi Grossman and I on the women’s side and [senior] Eric Lex, [senior] Nate Geary, [senior] Wes Villaflor and [sophomore] Ryan Koter on the men’s side. This may be one of the best teams our program has had,” she said. 
Chiang said she and Grossman have worked the past several weeks to perfect their dives for the qualifying meet. 
“In preparing for big meets, our practices usually change from doing a high quantity of a specific dives to about three to four each of multiple categories of dives and focus more on quali­ty,” Chiang said. “This way we are able to practice all the dives we will be competing in the meet because by now we don't need to be making big corrections on 
see CHIANG/page 13 


page 2 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 10, 2011 
Unexpected rise could be prelude 
Three years ago, Ben Hansbrough was toiling away unhappily at Mississippi State. 
Less than five months ago, Big East coaches not only left the Irish senior guard off the Preseason All-Big East First Team, they did not even grant him honor­able men­tion status. 
Tuesday, those same coaches named Hansbrough the Big East Player of the Year, after unanimously naming him to the All-Big East First Team on Sunday. 
Three years ago Notre Dame finished 10th in the Big East, and ended the season with a loss to Penn State in the NIT semifinals. 
Less than five months ago, the Irish finished seventh in the Big East preseason coach­es’ poll, five spots behind Villanova. 
Now, the Irish enter postsea­son play after finishing second in the Big East and No. 4 in the nation’s final polls. 
Unexpected rises seem to be the theme to Notre Dame’s season: to the extent that Villanova would have needed to win two games in order to face the Irish in the Big East quarterfinals tonight. Alas, the Wildcats couldn’t even beat South Florida Tuesday, further skewing the preseason prog­nostications. 
Only two questions remain: How high can the Irish rise? And will Hansbrough and Notre Dame end up flying too close to the sun? 
The Irish last tasted a top-five ranking in January 2003 after opening the season with 12 wins in their first 13 games. This season, an identical start only carried Notre Dame to the No. 15 slot in the polls. 
A late-season, three-game swoon dropped the 2003 Irish into a No. 5 seed for the NCAA tournament. Mike Brey’s cur­rent squad only lost consecu­tive games once, and thus, could face a No. 16 seed in the NCAA’s opening round. 
The most unexpected aspect of this rise is that Notre Dame deserves a No. 1 seed. 
But can these Irish handle such accolades, or will no longer being the underdog and instead being the focus of con­versation backfire and Ben, Brey and the boys? 
No matter how much fans — and columnists — speculate, no one can know for sure how Notre Dame will handle the heat, but certain indicators should fill Irish fans with confi­dence as St. Patrick’s Day approaches. 


For the first time in recent memory, Notre Dame did not suffer an embarrassing loss this season. Granted, all five of its losses came by margins which could qualify as eye­sores — at an average of 16 points per loss — but each of those losses also came on the road, against NCAA tourna­ment-bound teams. Thus, it is realistic to presume the Irish will avoid an embarrassing upset against an opponent akin to Old Dominion or Winthrop, as they have in the past. 
Another change from years past is that Notre Dame has proven it can win games when its 3-point shooting does not show up on a given night. In back-to-back games at the Old Spice Classic in November, the Irish shot a combined 5-of-34 from deep, yet still prevailed over Cal 57-44 and Wisconsin 58-51. At some point in the coming tournaments, fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis’ shot will not be falling. This is a Notre Dame squad that can survive such a drought. 
The Irish also know how to slow down their fast-paced offense. Though Notre Dame put up 93 points to topple then-No. 19 Villanova on Feb. 28, it also held itself to 56 points in a 56-51 victory over then-No. 2 Pittsburgh on Jan. 24. 
The security blanket known as Brey’s ‘burn’ offense allows Notre Dame to enjoy whatever tempo its opponent brings to the court. Whether facing a high-flying Kansas or a plod­ding Purdue, the Irish will have options. 
But the most encouraging difference between this version of Notre Dame and the ones previously seen did not reveal itself until the final regulation game — a 70-67 victory over then-No. 16 Connecticut. When Hansbrough fouled out with more than eight minutes left, it seemed that sans their cata­lyst, the Irish would fold. Instead, Notre Dame rose without its leader. 
Already this season, the Irish defeated two top-20 teams while senior forward Carleton Scott rode the bench nursing a sore hamstring, and Notre Dame rallied to the upset at Pittsburgh without Abromaitis attempting a single field goal. 
The Irish can truly win no matter who does not show up on any given day. Combine that with consistent perform­ances no matter the opponent, an independence from the 3 and a varied offense, and per­haps this is finally the year for a deep Notre Dame run. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Irish enter Big East as No. 2 seed 

By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
After completing one of the best regular seasons in school history, No. 4 Notre Dame heads to the Big East Championship as the No. 2 seed in the conference and looks to take the first step in having one of the program’s best postseasons ever. 
In what is arguably the strongest conference tourna­ment in NCAA history — which boasts a field that includes as many as 11 teams that could make the NCAA Tournament 
— the Irish (25-5, 14-4 Big East) earned a double bye and will open up action in the quarterfinals, which is crucial in a conference that boasts nine teams ranked in the ESPN/USA Today top-25, seven of whom also appear in the Associated Press’ top-25. 
While Notre Dame was not left for dead at the beginning of the season, few had high expectations for the Irish after the departure of starters Luke Harangody and Tory Jackson, and the Big East coaches picked Notre Dame to finish seventh in the 16-team league. Four short months later, how­ever, the Irish find themselves ranked in the top-five of either poll for the first time since the 2002-03 season, which was the last time Notre Dame reached the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament. This time around, the Irish are one of the favorites to win the Big East Championship and remain in contention for a coveted No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament. 
Irish coach Mike Brey, who won his third Big East Coach of the Year award in the last five seasons Tuesday, recog­nized his team’s potential early in the season with its win in the November’s Old Spice Classic and is more than thrilled with how the season has progressed in the vaunted Big East. 
“I always go in thinking ‘sur­vival’ in this league and get­ting one of the bids, and then once we get to nine [Big East wins], then I start thinking about gravy or dessert or whatever,” Brey said in his March 2 teleconference. “Certainly the way we won, the different ways we won, the guys that helped us win in Orlando got me energized coming out of there that, you know, we could be pretty darn good. We were better earlier than I thought we would be — I thought we’d be good — but certainly once you get moving toward eight or nine [confer­ence wins], then you start wanting to be greedy. 
“Obviously the pattern of the league when we got out of [facing Marquette and Pittsburgh back-to-back] and then we had that nine-day gap, you know the skies kind of opened up where you could frame it as chasing down the leader of the league,” he said. 
Although Brey picked up another prestigious honor, he was not the only member of the Irish to win one of the Big East’s top-four awards. Fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis was named Big East Scholar Athlete of the Year, and senior guard Ben Hansbrough became Notre Dame’s first Big East Conference Player of the Year winner since Harangody won the award in 2008. Hansbrough’s win marked the second time that Brey won Coach of the Year honors in the same season that the Irish boasted the conference’s top player. Brey said he believes that his star guard will enjoy the individual accolades but would rather see his team suc­ceed. 
“I think individual honors for Ben … and you know you probably say, ‘oh BS,’ but you guys have been around this psyche now for a while and you’ve been around it this year — it’s pure in wanting his team to win,” Brey said. “It’s extremely pure, it started back in June, so I firmly believe … his team doing things is something he wants to remember and put his mark on as he goes on to play in the NBA and comes back to reunions, et cetera.” 
The Irish are certainly off to an auspicious start in New York, but they would undoubt­edly like to return to South Bend with a conference cham­pionship to go along with their individual accolades. While the Irish have played in the Big East semifinals before, including a 53-51 loss to West Virginia last year, they’ve set their focus on reaching the program’s first championship game. 
“The one thing we talked about even back in the fall and I talked about it over the sum­mer was our program, we’ve gotten an identity and a respect and a rhythm in this league now, and we’ve played on Friday night here in New York in the semis, but our pro­gram’s never played on Saturday night,” Brey said to bigeast.org after receiving his Coach of the Year award. “And I verbalized that — I haven’t talked about the NCAA brack­et, I haven’t talked about any­thing but, ‘I wonder what it would be like to play on Saturday night at the Garden,’ and I think this group has embraced that and we’re [going to] try like heck to get to that.” 
Notre Dame finds itself on a favorable side of the bracket to accomplish that goal as the Irish boast a 6-2 record against the teams they could potentially play before Saturday night’s final. The other double bye on their side is No. 3 seed Louisville, who the Irish beat 89-79 in over­time Feb. 9. In Notre Dame’s first game, however, the Irish will face No. 7 Cincinnati or No. 15 South Florida. 
The Irish will tip off at Madison Square Garden tonight at 7 p.m. on ESPN. 
Contact Mike Gotimer mgotimer@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Back to the Big Apple 
Irish senior forward Tyrone Nash fulfills childhood dreams of playing in Madison Square Garden 
“Those past players motivate point, 11-rebound effort 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

me,” Nash said. “I have a against then-No.19 Villanova 
Sports Writer 

bunch of old Michael Jordan on Senior Night. videos. I used to watch tapes of Following Nash’s lead, the 
Almost two decades ago, Dr. J, Grant Hill and all those Irish are 21-1 when they out-Tyrone Nash crossed a busy guys over and over again. rebound their opponent and Eighth Avenue in downtown Then I would go and try to do 15-1 when Nash scores in dou-New York, clenching his what they did on my Fisher ble figures. He has helped to father’s hand. Dodging the Price hoop with a rubber ball. build a plus-5.1 rebounding traffic, Nash couldn’t have That’s where my basketball margin over opposing teams been happier. His eyes twin-career started.” on the season. Nash has done kled in front of the magnificent Nash has come a long way this while also guarding colos­palace in front of him, for he from the hoop on the back of sal centers that outsize his 6­was there to see his favorite his door, as the experienced foot-8 frame. player take on his favorite senior is a key part of No. 4 “It is a different task every team in America’s sports Notre Dame’s run this season. day,” the forward said. citadel. With the Irish’s 70-67 win at “Sometimes I have to guard 
“My first [Knicks] game was Connecticut Saturday — where the biggest guy on the court, seeing Michael Jordan kill us he had 13 points and five but then again he has to guard at the Garden,” said Nash, rebounds — Nash became the me on the offensive end too. I Irish senior forward and all-time winningest player in just try to use my speed and Queens native. Notre Dame quickness and make his life “I was four basketball his-hell when he has the ball. It’s years old and tory with 94 good that I can be versatile my dad took “It is a story that I can wins, passing and guard the big men but me. I’ll never the mark Tory then go out there and guard 
tell my grandchildren
forget it.” Jackson and the guards. It’s definitely an 
when I get older: That 
That is where L u k e asset to my game.” the dream granddad is part of Harangody set After he rips away a rebound began for Nash. last season. from his bigger opponent, the 
the winningest class in
He grew up in “It is a story senior often brings the ball 
Notre Dame history.” 
the shadow of that I can tell down the court himself to set the Garden with my grandchil-up the offense, something that a fantasy that Tyrone Nash dren when I get he picked up as a hybrid star all New Yorkers older: That in high school. 
Irish forward 
share: to play granddad is “I was like a guard-forward,” there. But Nash part of the win-Nash said. “It was more of a got the chance ningest class in comfortability thing. My old early, as a young athlete with Notre Dame history,” Nash coach used to always trust me his local basketball team as a said. “I’m etched in history with the ball and I made good halftime filler. now, and it’s a great thing. If decisions. It just stuck. And 
“One time I got to play at you would have told me that [Irish] coach [Mike] Brey real-halftime when I was in a youth coming into my freshman year ized that it could help the team league and that was the only I would have never believed out a little bit. It brings out time I thought I would play at you. It is a testament to the [the other team’s] big man and the Garden,” he said. “But lo great teams that I have been relieves some of the heat off and behold I got the chance to on. We just keep winning.” the guards who face a lot pres-be a part of the Big East and The teams keep on winning, sure when they bring the ball play there every year.” but Nash is a bigger part of the up the court.” coaching staff for his develop-year. On top of that, the senior 
The dream became reality winning than he gives himself At times, Nash even plays ment, and, moreover, for the has played in a team-high 80 multiple times throughout credit for. The senior is aver-like a true point guard. His essential confidence in his consecutive games, dating Nash’s Big East career. Years aging 9.7 points and 6.1 vision and passing abilities game necessary for a multi-back to February of his sopho­after watching his heroes hus-rebounds per game, while over his career have resulted tool player like himself. more year. That type of consis­tle down the court, Nash will leading the team in offensive in 82 assists in the past four “[Coach Brey] has helped me tency has developed the Irish play once again on the very rebounds with 76. He has seasons, including a seven-by just giving me a chance,” into a top-five team; Nash, same floor they did, something scored in double-figures in five assist night at Providence Feb. Nash said. “He instilled confi-however, is not ready to cele­he could only dream of while of the past six games, high-23. The forward, who has led dence in me and my game, brate this ranking, knowing watching highlight films as a lighted by his fourth double-the Irish in assists in eight which is something that I that there are still three more kid. double of the year with an 11-games this season, credits the lacked in my freshman year teams ahead of his. 
and going into my sophomore “Don’t get me wrong, it’s year. He would just tell me, great, but I don’t want to be ‘You can do it. Go for it.’ satisfied with that,” the veter-Because of that, the confidence an said. “I don’t want to get in my game went up and pro-too comfortable with a rank­vided me with the opportuni-ing. It doesn’t mean anything ties that I have today.” when we get to the tourna-
Those opportunities were not ment. We still have a lot of always there for the senior, work to do and goals to be ful­who was also offered scholar-filled.” ships from Kentucky, St. Starting tonight, Nash can John’s, Purdue and many oth-expand his records at the ers. Nash sat behind veteran famed Garden, a place that forwards his freshman year, holds a special meaning of averaging less than four min-home-court advantage to the utes per game. But he was senior. never one to quit, starting off-“Playing at home in front of season work immediately after my home crowd is just an his freshman season. incredible feeling,” Nash said. 
“Nothing in life is given to “Hopefully we could come out you and you have to learn of there with a win this time everything,” Nash said. “I and a Big East championship learned that early on in my in my hands. It would definite-freshman year. I made a real ly be a great story.” effort to go home and work Reflecting on his career hard on my game to show the before practice in the Purcell coaches how I have improved Pavilion Monday afternoon, the so I could earn some minutes senior’s wide grin — provoked on the court and play in this by thoughts of New York — league. After that I was able to soon morphed into a meek start my first game that year. It smile. His eyes twinkled due to just made it feel that much the magnificent palace in front better that I worked so hard of him. for it and I earned it.” “I’m going to miss this whole 
Since then the forward has thing … All of it,” the senior been the most consistent force said, ready to return to his for the Irish. Along with home on 7th and West 31st one fourth-year forward Tim last time. Abromaitis and fellow senior Ben Hansbrough, Nash has Contact Andrew Gastelum at started in every contest this agastel1@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 10, 2011 
Notre Dame Notre Dame’s starting lineup 
Record: 26-5 (14-4 BIG EAST) AP: 4 Coaches: 4 

2010-11 Schedule  
Nov. 12 Nov. 14 Nov. 17 Nov. 22 Nov. 25 Nov. 26 Nov. 28 Nov. 30 Dec. 8 Dec. 11 Dec. 19 Dec. 22 Dec. 29 Jan. 1 Jan. 4 Jan. 8 Jan. 10 Jan. 16 Jan. 19 Jan. 22 Jan. 24 Feb. 3 Feb. 6 Feb. 9 Feb. 12 Feb. 19 Feb. 23 Feb. 26 Feb. 28 March 5  Georgia Southern W 98-61 Liberty W 72-51 Chicago State W 102-62 Maine W 97-72 Georgia (Orlando, Fla.) W 89-83 (2OT) California(Orlando, Fla.) W 57-44 Wisconsin(Orlando,Fla.) W 58-51 Indiana State W 81-72 Kentucky(Louisville,Ky.) L 72-58 Gonazaga W 83-79 Stony Brook W 88-62 UMBC W 93-53 Georgetown W 69-55 @ Syracuse L 70-58 Connecticut W 73-70 St. John’s W 76-61 @ Marquette L 79-57 @ St. John’s L 72-54 Cincinnati W 66-58 Marquette W 80-75 @ Pittsburgh W 56-51 @ DePaul W 83-58 Rutgers W 76-69 Louisville W 89-79 (OT) @ South Florida W 78-55 @ West Virginia L 72-58 @ Providence W 94-93 Seton Hall W 60-48 Villanova W 93-72 @ Connecticut W 70-67  





Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Notre Dame’s most likely opponents at Madison Square Garden 


No. 1 seed; 15-3 Big East, 27-4 overall No. 3 seed, 12-6 Big East, 23-8 overall 
Lost to Notre Dame 56-51 on Jan. 24 Lost at Notre Dame 89-79 (OT) on Feb. 9 
When the Irish and Panthers met in late Louisville came the closest of anybody January, Notre Dame managed to silence to beating Notre Dame at Purcell Pavilion a rowdy Oakland Zoo with its nearly-this season, but when the extra period patented “burn” offense. commenced, the Irish ran away with the 
Pittsburgh boasts a one-two punch in victory. Ashton Gibbs and Brad Wanamaker that Kyle Kuric’s sharp-shooting can keep should still scare Irish fans. the Cardinals in nearly any contest. 
No. 4 seed, 12-6 Big East, 25-6 overall No. 5 seed, 12-6 Big East, 20-10 overall 
Defeated Notre Dame 70-58 on Jan. 1 Lost at Notre Dame 76-61 on Jan. 8 Defeated Notre Dame 72-54 on Jan. 16 
Long-time Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim has essentially perfected the zone Nobody wants to face the Red Storm at defense, and utilized such against the home, otherwise known as Madison Irish with no mercy on New Year’s Day. Square Garden. St. John’s ran Notre 
Notre Dame’s only answer to the Orange Dame out of the gym when they met in is to simply shoot the lights out until New York City, while the Irish did likewise Syracuse gives up its zone gimmick. when in South Bend. 
No. 7 seed, 11-7 Big East, 24-7 overall No. 8 seed, 10-8 Big East, 21-9 overall 
Lost to Notre Dame 66-58 on Jan. 19 Lost at Notre Dame 69-55 on Dec. 29 
Only South Florida stands between In a roller coaster of a season, the Cincinnati and a quarterfinals date with Hoyas have risen to the top-10 in the Notre Dame. country, and nearly fallen out of the polls. 
The Bearcats are an NCAA tournament Georgetown could not figure out how to lock, but have quite a bit to play for in score against Notre Dame, as the Irish New York city as their seed will largely held the Hoyas more than 10 points below hinge on their performance this weekend. their season average. 
No. 9 seed, 9-9 Big East, 22-9 overall No. 15 seed, 3-15 Big East, 10-22 overall 
Lost at Notre Dame 73-70 on Jan. 4 Lost to Notre Dame 78-55 on Feb. 12 Lost to Notre Dame 70-67 on March 5 
After upsetting Villanova Tuesday — In two evenly-matched contests, Notre shortly before this Insider went to print Dame came up the victor twice. — South Florida provided the Garden its 
Connecticut junior guard Kemba Walker first unexpected drama of the weekend. would relish a third chance to one-up Ben If the Bulls can get by Cincinnati Hansbrough, but will not get the chance if Wednedsay, they’d get a shot at upending he doesn’t make it to Saturday. the Irish, however unlikely it may be. 











Predicting the Irish postseason: Big East and NCAA 
Irish coach Mike Brey may have now won three of The Irish have given us legitimate reasons to think big — Though I’ve claimed to be a believer in the Irish 
the last five Big East Coach of the Year awards, but, perhaps even into April — and have been rewarded for every step of the way this season, when big games 
hands down, this has been his best coaching job in his those performances this week with the No. 4 spot in the presented themselves, I’ll admit my faith wavered. 
11 years at Notre Dame. polls and individual recognition for Ben Hansbrough and I knew Notre Dame was good, but I never thought Granted, it doesn’t hurt to start five seniors. That coach Mike Brey. But what I love about this team is that it that it would beat then-second-ranked Pittsburgh combination usually yields pleasing has earned everything to come its way on the road. I knew the Irish were results in the springtime, and this this year. I thought the Irish were vastly 
one of the best teams in the coun­year the Irish will prove that theory 
underrated coming into the year, but 
try, but beating Connecticut on the true. 
instead of complain about it, they won 
road on the Huskies’ senior day — Only two teams in the Big East can 
the Old Spice Classic, and then kept on 
especially when Irish senior guard claim winning records against Notre 
winning. I remember how excited Brey 
and catalyst Ben Hansbrough Dame — Syracuse and West Virginia. 
said his players were when they first 
fouled out with more than eight Fortunately, the earliest the Irish 
earned a top-25 ranking because they 
minutes left — just seemed unlike-could face either of them would be 
knew they had earned it. I love the way 
ly. the Big East semfinals. By that point, 
Brey has allowed his players, and even 
But now, the lack of faith is over. Notre Dame will have locked up a No. himself, to publicly enjoy some of the I’m on board, all in, 100 percent. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament, and unexpected magic of this season, like Notre Dame just has a certain the Irish bandwagon will be filling when he joked that he should retire if spark this year, and they will beat quicker than ever. he won his third Big East Coach of the Cincinnati, Louisville and finally 
The way Notre Dame has been Year award in five years. Coach, it’s a Pittsburgh in the Big East tourna­shooting of late though, neither the relief you didn’t stay true to your word. ment on the back of the Big East Orange nor the Mountaineers could But heck, if you get us to Houston, you Player of the Year as the Big East 

Matt Gamber 
Senior Sports Writer 

Eric Prister 
Associate Sports Editor 
Douglas 
Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

slow down the onslaught. Ah, the springtime. can do whatever you want. You’ve earned it. Coach of the Year guides them. It’s their time. 
Big East: Notre Dame tops Pittsburgh for the Big East Big East: Notre Dame falls to Syracuse in the Big East Big East: Notre Dame over Pittsburgh in the Big East tournament title tournament final tournament final 
NCAA: With a No. 1 seed, the Irish make it to the Final NCAA: Notre Dame makes it further than ever under NCAA: Notre Dame earns No. 1 seed, makes it past the Four, where a sole bounce can determine a game Brey, but falls again in the Elite Eight Sweet Sixteen 
page 6 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 10, 2011 
Notre Dame faces a long history of NCAA missteps 
Despite eight trips in his 10 years at ND, Irish coach Mike Brey has yet to tally three wins in one March 
By MATT GAMBER 
Senior Sports Writer 
Notre Dame begins play Thursday in New York with a real­istic shot at advancing to, and winning, the program’s first-ever Big East tournament title. But the Irish, who are ranked No. 4 nationally, have their eyes on another tournament in which they will likely receive a top-two seed. 
Notre Dame will qualify Sunday for its eighth NCAA tournament during coach Mike Brey’s 11-year tenure, and a strong showing at Madison Square Garden this week should guarantee the Irish a No. 2-seed, if not a No. 1, in the NCAAs. While that high seeding will provide an added amount of pressure to perform in the Big Dance, the Irish are a veteran group that has been to the NCAA tournament before. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, that experience hasn’t been alto­gether successful in recent years. 
After the Irish won six of their final seven games to escape the bubble and earn a No. 6-seed in last year’s tournament, Notre Dame suffered a first-round upset to No. 11 Old Dominion, 51-50, in New Orleans. 
“It’s just amazing how fast it can end,” Brey said after the loss. “Once you get into these one-game shots, anything can hap­pen.” 
In addition to having that expe­rience from which to learn, there might be two silver linings for this year’s Irish team. 
First, senior guard Ben Hansbrough led Notre Dame with 17 points in last year’s upset loss, which shows that the Big East player of the year is tournament-tested and NCAA-ready. 
Second, their high seeding will mean the Irish will likely be favored in their first three tourna­ment games — or, in March Madness terms, until the Elite 8, where the Irish have never been under Brey. 
While seedings and point spreads can almost always be thrown out the window during the NCAA tournament, it is worth not­ing that under Brey, Notre Dame has only once beaten a team with a higher seeding than the Irish. 
2001: No. 6 seed 
Brey, in his first season at Notre Dame, ended an 11-year tourna­ment absence by qualifying for the NCAAs after winning the Big East’s West division title in the regular season — in large part thanks to the efforts of forward Troy Murphy, who won his second straight Big East player of the year award in 2001. 
Murphy, a first-team All-American, scored 19 points in Notre Dame’s first-round game to help lead the Irish past No. 11­seed Xavier, 83-71. 
No. 3-seeded Mississippi ended Notre Dame’s run in the second round, however, when Rebels guard Jason Harrison’s 3-pointer beat the shot clock and gave Ole Miss the lead, 57-55, with 46 sec­onds to play. The Irish fell, 59-56, to end Brey’s first season. 
2002: No. 8-seed 
Notre Dame won back-to-back NCAA tournament openers for the first time in 23 years, beating No. 9 seed Charlotte, 82-63, to advance to a game with No. 1 seed Duke, the defending national champion. 


The Irish led their second-round game 71-64 with six minutes to play, but the top-seeded Blue Devils would recover with a 20-6 run that gave them an 84-77 vic­tory. 
Then-Duke star Jason Williams made the go-ahead free throws with 1:04 to play and made anoth­er pair 30 seconds later to bury an Irish team that received 20 points each from David Graves and Matt Carroll in the near-upset. 
Notre Dame trailed 45-39 at the half and 48-39 with about 16 min­utes to play, but the Irish surged ahead with a 14-0 run that nearly propelled Brey to a victory over legendary Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, under whom Brey coached in the early 1990s. 
2003: No. 5-seed 
Notre Dame snuck by No. 12­seed Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 70-69, in the first round. In that game, the Irish needed every one of guard Chris Thomas’ 27 points to top the Panthers, who were led by current-Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl and were making their first-ever NCAA appearance. 
Playing in Indianapolis, the Irish enjoyed a quasi-home court advantage and drilled 13 3 to beat No. 4-seed Illinois, 68-60, and advance to their first Sweet 16 since 1987. 
Notre Dame would advance no further, however, as top-seeded Arizona — led by the trio of Luke Walton, Jason Gardner and Channing Frye — rolled by the Irish 88-71. Notre Dame turned the ball over 19 times in a game it trailed 53-40 at the half. 
2007: No. 6 seed 
Notre Dame knew to look out for No. 11-seed Winthrop, a trendy upset pick, but the Irish still fell in the first round 74-64 to an Eagle program that secured its first NCAA tournament victory. 
The Big South champions held off a Notre Dame team that rallied back from a 54-34 deficit to take a 63-62 lead with 2:21 left, as the Eagles finished the game on an 11-2 run of their own to send the Irish packing. 
2008: No. 5 seed 
A year after suffering a first-round upset, Notre Dame held serve in its first game by beating No. 12-seed George Mason, a pop­ular Cinderella team after its mag­ical run to the Final Four in 2006. 

But the Irish run ended two days later, when Washington State trounced Notre Dame, 61-41, in Denver. 
The Irish shot only 24.5 percent (13 of 53) from the field, and 17.6 percent from 3 (3 of 17), in a game that saw senior forward Luke Harangody pull in 22 rebounds but score only 10 points on 3-of-17 shooting. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 10, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Hansbrough, Walker among Big East honorees 
Pittsburgh’s Gibbs, Providence’s Brooks named by coaches to all-conference first team 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Among other accolades, including Big East Player of the Year, Irish senior guard Ben Hansbrough was named to the Big East all-conference first team. Joining Hansbrough were five others, Connecticut junior guard Kemba Walker, Providence senior guard Marshon Broosk, Georgetown senior guard Austin Freeman, Pittsburgh junior guard Ashton Gibbs and St. John’s senior guard Dwight Hardy. 
Hansbrough finished third in the Big East in scoring, averag­ing 18.5 per game, and 11th basketball IQ.” 
Kemba Walker finished sec­ond in the Big East in scoring with 23.1 points per game. He led the Huskies in scoring in 25 of their 31 games this sea­son, scoring 24 points or more 13 times. He played a confer-ence-high 37.4 minutes per game and finished 10th in the Big East in assists with 4.3 per contest. 
“He’s leading a lot of young people to some awfully good places,” Huskies coach Jim Calhoun said after Connecticut’s Feb. 16 win over Georgetown. “I’ve never seen a guy be able to do those kinds of things. He obviously wins games, but he’s also a pretty 

in assists with good guy to 
“[Hansbrough’s] been 
four per con-watch play. test. His 45-amazing. He is a live-He’s fun to 
percent 3-point on-the-edge, compete-watch play.” shooting per-Marshon
every-day, want-to­
centage is also Brooks led the 
third in the win-everything Big East in conference . [player].” scoring with a Hansbrough 24.8 points per averaged over game average. 
Mike Brey 
20 points per He scored 20 
Irish coach
game in Big points of more East play, in all but three including four Big East games, straight contests over 20. He including a 52-point explosion was the only player unani-in Providence’s one-point loss mously named to the all-Big to Notre Dame Feb. 23. Brooks East first team. also finished seventh in the 
“He’s been amazing,” Irish conference in rebounds, coach Mike Brey said of pulling down just over seven Hansbrough on Jim Rome is per game. He led the Friars in Burning. “He is a live-on-the-points in 26 of their 31 con-edge, compete-every-day, tests, and recorded seven dou­want-to-win-everything [play-ble-doubles. er]. And he pulls his team-“Marshon Brooks is able to mates along with him, come make the right plays — not just hell or high water. He’s just scoring, but make the right done a great job setting for the passes,” Friars coach Keno tone for us. He has a great Davis said after the loss to Notre Dame. “I feel like he is pretty unselfish, I don’t know. But it’s a special player. He can score in so many ways.” 

Austin Freeman scored 17.8 points per game for the Hoyas, good enough for fifth in the Big East. Freeman was named the Preseason Big East Player of the Year, and scored at least 20 points in 11 contests this season. He ranked third in the Big East in free throw percent­age, shooting 86.7 percent from the charity stripe. 


“Austin Freeman in most sit-cent of his shots from beyond uations is unflappable,” Hoyas the arc, and in free throw per-
coach  John  centage at 89.5  
Thompson  III  percent. Gibbs  
said after G e o r g e t o w n d e f e a t e d  “Austin Freeman in most situations is  sunk at least three 3-point­ers in 19 con- 
Villanova Jan. 29. “So the last three minutes of the game were only  unfappable. So the last three minutes of the game were only indicative of what he’s  tests this year for the Panthers. Hardy was named the Big  
indicative of what he’s done the last four  done the last four years.”  East Most I m p r o v e d Player and  
years. They’re  earned  Big  
running, trap­ping and mak­ing it hard to do  John Thompson III Hoyas coach  East Player of the Week three times, the most  
what you want  in the confer- 

to do, so you put the ball in his ence. His 17.9 points per game hands because good things was good enough for fourth in happen.” the conference, and he finished 
Gibbs finished sixth in the fifth in free throw percentage, Big East in scoring for the reg-making 84.4 percent from the ular season champions, aver-line. aging 16.1 points per game. He led the conference in 3-point Contact Eric Prister at percentage, making 46.6 per-eprister@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 10, 2011 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

The Irish finished the regular season winning 11 of their last 12 contests and earned the No. 2 seed in the Big East tournament. Three victories over top conference opponents would earn them their first ever 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer

Big East tournament title. Follow Douglas Farmer, Eric Prister and Matt Gamber as they travel to New York to cover Notre Dame’s road to the championship. 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 




DAN JACOBS/The Observer DAN JACOBS/The Observer 





