
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic 
year; $75 for one semester.  
The Observer is published at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address corrections to:  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779  The Observer  
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame  P.O. Box 779  
and additional mailing offices.  024 South Dining Hall  

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Allan Joseph 
Sam Stryker Chris Allen 
Amanda Gray Andrew Owens Kristen Durbin Sam Gans John Cameron Jack Hefferon Caitlin Housley Scene 
Graphics Maija Gustin Brandon Keelean Viewpoint Photo Meghan Pat Coveney Thomassen Sarah O’Connor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


Graduation held in Stadium again 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
After four years in the stands, the Class of 2011 will continue a recent University tradition and march down the tunnel Sunday to gather in the Notre Dame Stadium for the last time as a group. 
Commencement for the graduating seniors will be held in the Stadium for the second year in a row, University Registrar Dr. Harold Pace said. 
The venue allows seniors to invite as many guests as they want to the Commencement celebration. This year, Pace said over 21,000 guests will attend the ceremony, which will take place at 9 a.m. Sunday. 
“The Notre Dame ceremony is truly a family celebration together,” Pace said. “It is just very unique and there is a spe­cial feeling among that group of graduates and family and faculty and administrators there … It feels like a family atmosphere and celebration.” 
Pace said moving Commencement to the Stadium improved the overall graduation experience for last year’s senior class. 
“I think you have to put the fact of going down the ramp and that experience, as a group and as a class together, it’s such a great celebration,” Pace said. “So the celebration itself is good. We saw last year as we came on stage … the students seemed to be happi­er.” 
Prior to the switch in 2010, seniors received four tickets to the Commencement ceremony in the Joyce Center. However, with limited seating in the venue following its recent ren­ovation, Pace said a change was needed. 
“We moved to the Stadium [last year] because the Joyce Center seating was changed and reduced by about 2,000,” he said. “So we moved out to the Stadium simply to be able to say to our students, ‘Invite as many people as you like and we are going to be able to take care of all of them here.’” 
Without a limit on tickets for each student, Pace said gradu­ates were able to invite more family and friends to share in the ceremony. 
“What we found from the graduates’ standpoint is they invited people that maybe weren’t just part of their immediate family,” Pace said. “So all the brothers and sisters got to come and that was great.” 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame News and Information Students line up for the 2010 Commencement exercises held May 16, 2010, in Notre Dame Stadium for the frst time. The 2011 Commencement will also be held in the Stadium. 
This year, the Office of the Registrar reported the largest request was 99 tickets in one group, followed by a request for 70 tickets and another for 50. 
Students especially enjoyed the walk down the tunnel before they entered the Stadium, Pace said. 
“We decided it would be so neat at Notre Dame to have the students go down that tun­nel and then be seated on the field for Commencement,” Pace said. “It was a great experience to watch the stu­dents go down the tunnel. There were so many smiles and so much anticipation from the students as they were wait­ing to go down.” 
The biggest challenge for an outdoor ceremony is the threat of bad weather, Pace said. 
He said several options were considered for the ceremony in the event of rain or weather problems. 
“What seemed to be a better model for us was to stay out­side in the rain,” Pace said. “Only in the event of severe weather will we go inside. We have very specific things we will look for there — very high wind, torrential rain, lightning, tornadoes, all those things, would drive us inside. We make that call on Sunday morning.” 
In the event of severe weath­er, Pace said each student receives three severe weather tickets for the ceremony inside the Joyce Center. 
Assistant Registrar Laura Spaulding said more graduate students attended the University Commencement ceremony in the Stadium than in past years. 
“The graduate business and the graduate law and graduate schools didn’t have many stu­dents come to the Joyce Center,” Spaulding said. “But last year because of the Stadium, I think, there were lots of those students who came to the ceremony.” 
Pace said graduate students typically receive their degrees Saturday prior to the University-wide ceremony, but agreed the Stadium venue drew more to participate Sunday as well. 
In total, 2,700 students will attend the Commencement ceremony. 
The University will also award 13 honorary degrees Sunday and at least two recipi­ents will be familiar names to students. 
“This year we have two of our own where people will know these people getting honorary degrees. Chuck Lennon from the Alumni Association is a real favorite of the students. He’s been at pep rallies, and people know him,” Pace said. “And then Lou Holtz, so people know him if not from football in the stadi­um then from TV.” 
Few changes were made from the 2010 ceremony in the Stadium, Spaulding said. Graduates will form lines out­side the Stadium 15 minutes later than last year, but all other details essentially remain the same. 
“[Last year] the students were at Library Quad playing Red Rover because they were there a little early,” Pace said. 
The Stadium ceremony does include traditional features that are meaningful to stu­dents, Pace said. 
“It’s always interesting to hear the valedictorian’s speech,” Pace said. “Here is a student, up there in front of everyone, talking about these last four years as an under­graduate. So I always think that is a high point for me, hearing what the valedictorian has to say and hearing their remarks.” 
Just as the student body sings “Notre Dame, Our Mother” in unison after each football game, the students will sway together and sing the Alma Mater at Commencement before leaving the stadium. 
“When they sing the Alma Mater as a group, we have them turn and face their par­ents and their guests, and they all were swaying and singing the Alma Mater together,” Spaulding said. “I think it was really a touching moment for the students.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Commencement Weekend Schedule 
Saturday 

9:00 a.m.  ROTC Commissioning Ceremony DPAC—Leighton Concert Hall  
10:00 a.m.  Mendoza College of Business Graduate Ceremony Joyce Center—Purcell Pavilion  
10:00 a.m.  Graduate School Commencement Ceremony Joyce Center—North Dome  
1:00 p.m.  Service Send-Off Ceremony DPAC—Leighton Concert Hall  
5:00 p.m.  Commencement Mass Joyce Center—Purcell Pavilion  

Sunday 

7:30 a.m.  Notre Dame Stadium Opens for Guest Seating  
9:00 a.m.  Commencement Ceremony Academic Procession  
9:30 a.m.  Commencement Ceremony Conferring of Bachelor and Honorary Degrees  
Afternoon  Departmental Commencement Ceremony  

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 



Students anticipate Gates’commencement address 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates sat in the Situation Room in the White House May 1 as the national security team followed the mission to target terrori st Osama bin Laden in Pakistan. 
Tw o weeks later, Gates will stand in the Notre Dame Stadi um and address the Class of 2011 during the week­end Commencement Ceremony. 
Senior and political science major Kaitie McCabe said the choice of Gates as commence­ment speaker became even timelier with the recent death of bin Laden. 
“Now that Gates is associat­ed with a very current event, I think his presence at our cere­mony seems more momentous, more warranted,” she said. “I think a lot of seniors are inter­ested to see whether he’ll also a political science major, said before bin Laden’s death students seemed unenthused about the choice of the com­mencement speaker. 

“I saw that a few students were excited, but most reac­tions were of indifference, simple acceptance or slight disappoint,” he said. “I believe most seniors who are some­what familiar with the secre­tary’s background respect his service, but many do not know too much about him besides his current job.” 
Senior Alex Barbuto, a mem­ber of Notre Dame’s Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), said Gates’ behind­the-scenes involvement in an influential event in American history heightened anticipa­tion for the speech. 
“He has something to be incredibly proud of, and I think the onslaught of reinvig­orated patriotism and faith in our military will increase the 
audi ence’s  support  o f  our  
speaker,” he said.  
A no ther  member  of  the  

Army ROTC program, senior Geralyn Janke, said she appre­ciates the choice of Gates as the speaker as she prepares to 
enter the armed services. 

discuss or even  “It’s awesome that we  “It’s  awesome  
m ention bi n Laden’s d eath and the raid.” Gate s ha s served unde r pre s id ents i n  get to hear the secretary of defense speak the day after we commission.”  t h at we get to hear the secre­tary of defense sp eak the da y afte r we com-mi s s ion,” she  
both major par­ties and due to  Geralyn Janke  sai d. “Having some o n e so  
his bipartisan  senior  influential speak  
stance, McCabe  t o  us  a s  we  
sa id  she  leave  No tre  

believes he will not overshad-Dame is a humbling capstone ow the true focus of Sunday’s to my time here.” events. Barbuto said he hopes Gates 
“I also think it’s a blessing in will comment on those who disguise that we won’t have a serve America in military. more controversial speaker at “As the son of a career Army our graduation,” she said. officer, brother of an officer “The focus will be on the cere-with multiple deployments, mony and the students rather and soon-to-be commissioned than [the] rightness or wrong-officer myself, I vaguely ness of inviting a particular understand the level of com-speaker.” mitment and sacrifice it 
Senior Patrick McDonnell, entails,” he said. “I’m not sure most students can relate, but I nized at times, should be hope Gates’ speech might expected.” scratch the surface.” While Gates was involved in 

Senior and political science the background of the bin major Kevin Kimberly said Laden mission, McDonnell said Gates is not as closely linked he did not expect the recent to the efforts behind bin news to affect the speech from Laden’s death the secretary of as higher pro-defense. file officials like “While it will President certainly be 
“Just like us, Gates is
Barack Obama. interesting as a
embarking on a
However, he graduating sen-said Gates’ period of change and ior to hear from experience him after such a
transition.” 
could only historic event, I enhance his doubt any of the dialogue Kaitie McCabe address’s Sunday. senior themes relate to 
“His involve-bin Laden’s ment in the death or differ killing of bin from what they Laden only enriches his story would have been if he was not more. On whether his involve-killed,” he said. ment gives more significance Gates, who has served as to his speech overall, I would secretary of defense since say no,” Kimberly said. “He is 2006, announced in 2010 that a pretty big official as it is. His he would step down from the involvement, while not recog-position some time this year. 
McDonnell said this event is important in regards to what is said during Sunday’s cere­monies. 
“It is not uncommon for pub­lic officials who are stepping down or retiring to have at least one speech where they either reflect on their tenure [or] chart out what they think the future holds,” he said. “Even if his address is not so fantastical, he still may have much to say about life in pub­lic service.” 
McCabe said she thought Gates would relate to the graduating class because he too will soon begin a new chapter in his life. 
“Just like us, Gates is embarking on a period of change and transition,” she said. “I think that will impart his speech with added gen­uineness and significance.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Seniors celebrate last days at ND with traditional activities 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Senior Kate Callison has something left on her Notre Dame “bucket list” that she does not want to graduate without doing — and it has to do with “Twilight.” 
“One more thing on the list is taking my life-size Taylor Lautner cut-out around cam­pus and taking pictures with it in fun locations,” Callison said. 
As their undergraduate days dwindle, seniors like Callison are checking items off their bucket lists and participating in Senior Week activities spon­sored by student government. Senior Class Council (SCC) president Kate Clitheroe said her classmates would spend their last week as Notre Dame students attending a free kick­off barbeque, dancing at the Commencement Ball, striking down pins at Chippewa Bowl, taking a final class trip to the Grotto and heading to Cedar Point. 
The seniors also had the opportunity to attend a Chicago Cubs game, which is usually one of the more popu­lar events sponsored by the SCC. 
“Every year they do the Cubs game and about half the class goes,” Clitheroe said. 
Sunday’s game in Chicago, however, was rained out and postponed until June. Some students headed back to cam­pus while others stayed in the city and enjoyed the evening despite the cancellation. 
This year’s SCC also added new activities to the Senior Week agenda, Clitheroe said. 
“We’re pairing with Old2Gold to do a service proj­ect. We’re going to have a drop-off location off-campus. Another new thing is we’re trying to organize a discount program where companies from around town allow sen­iors to come in and get 20 per­cent off,” she said. 
The class trip to Cedar Point Monday was also a change. In the past, seniors traveled to Six Flags Great America. 
Caitlin Casey, Senior Week Committee chair, said the loca­tion of Commencement Ball Tuesday night was also new. 
“This is the first year that we’re doing the commence­ment ball in Club Naimoli in the Purcell Pavilion,” Casey said. “We’re excited about it because it’s a new location, and it’s nice to have the ball on campus.” 
Callison said she was looking forward to the Commencement Ball, which has the reputation of being a dance where cou­ples either declare their undy­ing love for each other or break up for good. 
“I’ve heard that it’s been a dramatic and an emotional event in the past, so I’m really looking forward to seeing all of the senior class in one place,” she said 
While a last class trip to the Grotto is a long-standing tradi­tion, Casey said SCC added a new piece to the event this year. 
“We’re doing a booklet take­away,” she said. “It’s called the Senior Wisdom Project, and it’s words of advice about what they would tell under­classmen about their experi­ences at Notre Dame.” 
Clitheroe said Senior Week also gives students the chance to explore campus as under­graduates for the last time. 
“Seniors go a lot of places they have never been like the 14th floor of the [Hesburgh] Library, the [Notre Dame] Stadium press box and the [utility] tunnels,” she said. 
Callison said she completed most of the items on her buck­et list this year after taking a tour of the utility tunnels with her section in Ryan Hall and visiting every chapel on cam­pus. 
“One thing I still want to do is go into the Law Library because undergraduates aren’t allowed there,” she said. 
As senior Matt Peterson looked back on his four years of college, he said he was grateful he was able to travel to the University of Southern California to watch the Irish beat the Trojans this year. 
“I was also going to do the Hesburgh Challenge, but besides that, [I] just [want to see] everyone that helped shape my past four years,” he said. 
Senior Katie Shircliff said she checked off several items on her Notre Dame bucket list this year, as well. 
“I got to go to the Dome Dance, which was really fun,” she said. “I also had a goal of getting something published while I was here, and I had a poem published in ‘Lost Piece,’ which is the journal that the Arts and Letters kids have.” 
There is still one more item she has to cross off her list before she graduates, though. 
“I’ve always wanted to fly a kite on the quad, so hopefully I’ll get to do that over the next few days,” she said. 
During her last days at Notre Dame, Shircliff said she was most looking forward to the last class visit to the Grotto Thursday. 
“I think it will be a special time when we can all come together to celebrate our friendship and the experiences that we’ve shared at Notre Dame,” she said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at 
miati@nd.edu 




FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 20, 2011 The top Observer news stories from the 2007-2011 academic years page 5 


Obama speaks at Commencement 
May 17, 2009 
After months of controversy, President renew its promise; that we align our deepest that out of 345 Letters to the Editor authored Barack Obama delivered the University’s 164th values and commitments to the demands of a by students, 74 percent were in favor of the Commencement Address, asking graduates to new age,” he told the Class of 2009. invitation and 29 were against Jenkins’s deci­seek common ground on abortion and other University President Fr. John Jenkins invited sion. divisive issues facing the country. Obama to speak at Commencement and In an interview with The Observer, Jenkins 
Obama acknowledged the controversy sur-receive an honorary degree in March of 2009 said he was “honored” when Obama accepted rounding his visit to campus and noted the — a decision that sparked protests from stu-the University’s invitation. irreconcilable differences in the abortion dents, alumni and groups unaffiliated with the “Presidents from both parties have come to debate. University. Notre Dame for decades to speak to graduates 
“Your class has come of age at a moment of The student group ND Response, formed about our nation and our world,” Jenkins said. great consequence for our nation and the days after Jenkins’ announcement, staged “They’ve given important addresses on inter-world — a rare inflection point in history demonstrations and submitted a petition to national affairs, human rights, service, and where the size and scope of the challenges Jenkins criticizing his decision. we’re delighted that President Obama is con-before us require that we remake our world to Yet a count by The Observer in April showed tinuing that tradition.” 








Student arrests increase in Fall Semester. SMC first year student dies. Junior Declan Sullivan dies in accident. 

The Year 
2010. 

Observer Staff Report 
Student arrests spike in fall semester 
A peak in student arrests for alcohol-related offenses occurred in the late sum­mer and early fall, as more than 100 stu­dents were taken to jail by the end of August. 
The first and most high profile bust occurred July 17 when 43 students, includ­ing 18 Notre Dame athletes, were arrested by the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) and Indiana State Excise Police. The weekend of Aug. 27-29 saw 58 more arrests, made at separate parties by SBPD and Excise Police. 
The spike in police incidents and student complaints about how law enforcement dealt with students drew responses from both University administration and student government. 
Then-student body president Catherine Soler met with police several times to dis­cuss the issue and set a precedent for a positive student body-police relationship in the future. 
“There were lots of conversations we can work on within student government that can lead to greater changes,” she said. 
SMC first year student dies at 19 
First year Saint Mary’s student Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg, described by loved ones as having a heart for service, committed suicide in her dorm room Sept. 10. She was 19. 
Seeberg alleged that a Notre Dame stu­dent athlete sexually assault her Aug. 31. Following media coverage of Seeberg’s sexual assault allegations and an announcement from the St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office that no charges would be filed, the University called its investiga­tion of the case “thorough and careful.” 
Seeberg, originally from Northbrook, Ill., was a resident of McCandless Hall and an intended nursing major at the College. 
Friends say Seeberg was committed to helping others and always had a smile on her face. Kalyn Fetta, a sophomore at Notre Dame who attended high school with Seeberg, said she had a “contagious joy.” 
More than 400 students, faculty, staff, family and friends gathered together in remembrance of Seeberg for a memorial Mass in Regina Hall’s Chapel Sept. 13. 
Lily Tomlin speaks at Saint Mary’s 
“An Evening with Lily Tomlin” enter­tained a sold-out crowd at Saint Mary’s Sept. 27, as the award-winning actress shared her experiences from many years of standup comedy and acting. 
Tomlin came to Saint Mary’s as part of the Margaret Hill Endowed Visiting Artists, which brought director Hal Prince and actress Glenn Close to the stage in past years. 
Through a series of character changes, Tomlin instilled life lessons in the Saint Mary’s audience. 
A native of Detroit, Tomlin used her his­tory in show business and her personal life as inspiration for her 90-minute show. 
Junior dies in video tower accident 
Junior Declan Sullivan, 20, died Oct. 27 after the scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. He was a stu­dent videographer for the football team. 
Originally from Long Grove, Ill., Sullivan was double majoring in marketing and Film, Television and Theatre. He was a contributor to The Observer’s Scene sec­tion. 
Those who know him well remembered Sullivan, a resident of Fisher Hall, as fun-loving and outgoing. 
His rector, Fr. Robert Moss, said he remembers Sullivan “mostly just for his enthusiasm for everything he was involved in.” 
The University held a Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart in honor of Sullivan Oct. 28. Around 1,000 people attended the Mass, while about 1,000 oth­ers gathered outside and 500 more watched the Mass live in the LaFortune Student Center. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins took responsibility for Sullivan’s death in an open letter to the Notre Dame commu­nity Nov. 5. 
“We are conducting an investigation and we must be careful not to pre-judge its results, but I will say this: Declan Sullivan was entrusted to our care, and we failed to keep him safe,” Jenkins said in the letter. “We at Notre Dame — and ultimately I, as President — are responsible. Words cannot express our sorrow to the Sullivan family and to all involved.” 
Donnelly defeats Walorski 
Notre Dame alumnus and Democratic incumbent Joe Donnelly retained his seat in Indiana’s 2nd Congressional District Nov. 2, narrowly defeating Republican Jackie Walorski in one of the country’s key congressional races. 
Donnelly won 48.2 percent of the vote, while Walorski garnered 46.8 percent. 
Donnelly, a 1977 Notre Dame graduate and 1981 Notre Dame Law School gradu­ate, said in an interview with The Observer his experience at the University has shaped his time serving Congress. 
“When you leave Notre Dame, Notre Dame gives you the values you need to try a do a good job,” he said. “You have the motto of ‘God, Country, Notre Dame.’ That is the cornerstone of what we try to do in Congress, what is best for the country.” 
University begins ‘Contending Modernities’ 
The University launched Contending Modernities, a research initiative to facili­tate breaking barriers between Muslims and Catholics in the context of a modern world. 
The conference, which took place in New York City Nov. 18 and 19, involved a panel series featuring Notre Dame faculty, Muslim leaders and religious scholars. 
Participants included University President Fr. John Jenkins and Ali Gomaa, the Grand Mufti of Egypt and one of the world’s eminent Muslim scholars, who sat in on the conference electronically. 
“This initiative builds on the simple strength of Notre Dame — a great research university and a religious mis­sion,” Jenkins told The Observer. “That puts Notre Dame at the heart of some of the most important issues in the world today.” 
The conference took place the same weekend as the football game against Army at Yankee Stadium and Jenkins said the pairing was an opportunity to draw attention to the University’s academic accomplishments. 
“We have a football game here and to see that brings attention but that’s simply a vehicle to make people aware of the great educational and intellectual endeavors that take place at Notre Dame,” he said. 
Cairo study abroad students evacuated 
Twelve students participating in a Notre Dame study abroad program at the American University in Cairo (AUC) were among the American citizens evacuated from Egypt Jan. 31 after an uprising began that ultimately led to the overthrow of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. 
The students were evacuated to Istanbul and Notre Dame then worked with State Department officials to transport the stu­dents to their hometowns, Notre Dame or London. Students were given the option of enrolling at Notre Dame’s campus in South Bend or at the University’s London Program for the remainder of the semes­ter, based on individual preference and available courses and housing. 
On Feb. 24, just a month after the protests began, current sophomores accepted to the Cairo study abroad were notified that the fall 2011 program was cancelled. 
The status of the spring 2012 semester hosted at AUC remains uncertain. 
Two new minors to be offered in fall 
In response to students’ growing concern over environmental issues, the University announced in March that it would create two new minors — Energy Studies and Sustainability — to be offered to under­graduate students beginning next semes­ter. 
Rebecca Hicks, who will serve as direc­tor of the Energy Studies minor, said the minor will challenge students as leaders and problem solvers. 
“First, meeting the world’s energy demands in an environmentally responsi­ble fashion is arguably one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century,” she said. “We feel that to meet this challenge, Notre Dame must play a key role in preparing leaders from all disciplines who under­stand the complexity of it.” 
The Sustainability minor will prepare students to serve as leaders in their com­munities by making constructive contribu­tions to the development of more sustain­able practices, Sustainability minor direc­tor Maria Miglietta said. 
Businessweek ranks Mendoza No. 1 again 
After Bloomberg Businessweek ranked the Mendoza College of Business as the No. 1 undergraduate business school in the nation for the second consecutive year March 3, Mendoza Dean Carolyn Woo said Notre Dame is proud to combine premier education with upstanding morals. 
“We really reinforce the message that you need to win with ethics,” Woo said. “We are most proud of the fact that a Catholic school that stands on this message is also recognized as the best business edu­cation … This is a tremendous blessing for us to stand for our mission, to be a witness on behalf of the mission.” 
After Notre Dame, Businessweek listed the University of Virginia, Emory University, the University of Pennsylvania and Cornell University in the top five busi­ness schools. 
IOSHA finds six Notre Dame violations 
The Indiana Occupational Health and 


Nov. 18–19—University August—Student arrests Oct. 27—Notre Dame launches ‘Contending spike in fall semester junior dies in video tower Modernities’
A peak in student arrests 
accident 
The University launched for alcohol-related of-Junior Declan Sullivan, 20, 
Sept. 10—SMC frst year Jan. 31—Cairo study 

fenses occurred in the late 
summer and early fall, as 
taken to jail by the end of 
September
January 

Contending Modernities, 
died Oct. 27 after the scis­
student dies at 19 
abroad students evacuated 
Twelve students participat­
ing in a Notre Dame study a research initiative to First year Saint Mary’s stu-sor lift from which he was facilitate breaking barriers dent Elizabeth “Lizzy” See-flming football practice between Muslims and berg, described by loved fell. He was a student vid­abroad program at the 

Catholics in the context of
August. 

ones as having a heart for eographer for the football 
American University in 

The frst and most high service, committed suicide team. a modern world. Cairo (AUC) were among profle bust occurred July in her dorm room Sept. 10. Originally from Long The conference, which the American citizens 17 when 43 students, She was 19. Grove, Ill., Sullivan was took place in New York evacuated from Egypt Jan. including 18 Notre Dame Seeberg, originally from double majoring in mar-City Nov.18 and 19, 31 after an uprising began athletes, were arrested by Northbrook, Ill., was a res-keting and Film,Television involved a panel series that ultimately led to the South Bend Police (SBPD) ident of McCandless Hall and Theatre. He was a featuring Notre Dame fac-overthrow of Egyptian and Indiana State Excise and an intended nursing contributor to The Ob-ulty, Muslim leaders and President Hosni Mubarak. Police. major at the College. server’s Scene section. religious scholars. 
Mendoza ranks No. 1 again. IOSHA fines Notre Dame. SMC receives record donation for science. ND sophomore dies. 


in Review 
.2011 

Safety Administration (IOSHA) found Notre Dame guilty of six violations after a four-and-a-half month investigation into the October death of junior Declan Sullivan, the Indiana Department of Labor announced March 15. 
Sullivan, 20, died Oct. 27 after the scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. He was a student videograph­er for the football team. 
The citations resulted in fines totaling $77,500. The violations included a “know­ing” violation, meaning IOSHA found the University knowingly exposed its employ­ees to unsafe conditions. The Indiana Department of Labor reported the University was fined $55,000 for this viola­tion. 
IOSHA also issued five “serious” viola­tions with fines totaling $22,500. These violations included failure to properly train student employees in how to operate a scissor lift. 
Floyd charged with OWI 

Junior wide receiver Michael Floyd was arrested March 20 on campus after he was pulled over by the Notre Dame Security Police for running a stop sign. 
Floyd failed three field sobriety tests and was then administered a breathalyzer test, which recorded .19 grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath. Indiana’s legal driving limit is .08. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly suspended Floyd indefinitely from all football activities beginning March 21. After attending a meeting with the Office of Residence Life in April, Floyd remained suspended from football but was allowed to continue his education as he prepares to graduate next spring. 
This is Floyd’s second consecutive off season marred by legal issues. In January 2010, Floyd was cited for underage drink­ing in Minneapolis. 
Floyd will appear in court June 7 at 8 
a.m. to face charges of operating a vehicle while intoxicated. 
SMC Record Donation 

Saint Mary’s received a record donation of $10 million on March 26. 
Class of 1995 alumna Jennifer Mathile Prikkel and her parents, Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile, donated the single largest private gift in the history of Saint Mary’s College. 
The donors gave the money to both reno­vate the Saint Mary’s College Science Hall and inspire others to invest in educating young women in science. 
Saint Mary’s will modernize the Science Hall with new learning and study spaces to encourage students to collaborate with their peers. The College will refurbish and expand labs, which will help biology, chemistry and physics students and sup­port growing programs, like nursing. Updated equipment and technology will also be purchased. 
Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile were for­mer owners of the Iams Pet Food Company, and Prikkel is a member of Saint Mary’s College Board of Trustees. 
“[The donation] was to really challenge people to invest their money in the life of a young woman who not only learns through her mind, but through her heart,” Prikkel said. 
Admissions more competitive than ever 
Members of the Class of 2015 may not have set foot on campus yet, but they have already broken records. The applicant pool grew by more than 2,000, allowing the Office of Undergraduate Admissions to put together its most accomplished class thus far. 
A total of 16,543 students applied to Notre Dame this year. The University admitted 3,984 students and wait-listed 1,853. Last year’s final rate of admission was 29 percent. Before the University moved students off the wait-list, this year’s rate stood at 24 percent. 
The mean SAT score of admitted stu­dents was 1443, a nine point increase from the Class of 2014. The median student ranks in the top 2 percent of his or her high school class. Two-thirds of those in the top 3 percent of their high school class were not admitted. 
Director of Admissions Bob Mundy said that while selecting from a competitive application pool was challenging, it was ultimately exciting for the University. 
“In my 28 years [in admissions,] this year has been unlike any other,” he said. “It is pretty exciting to feel as though we are maintaining the very special character of Notre Dame while advancing some other things.” 
McCormick-Rocheleau win office 
Junior Pat McCormick and sophomore Brett Rocheleau won the election for stu­dent body president and vice president after capturing 64 percent of votes in the Feb. 17 runoff. The pair assumed office on April 1, taking over duties from former stu­dent body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell. 
McCormick and Rocheleau defeated jun­ior James Ward and freshman Heather Eaton in the runoff election. 
McCormick said the duo would utilize the resources of student government to benefit Notre Dame. 
“We want to try to transform student government as a way of amplifying stu­dents’ voices and responding to issues that students care about,” he said. “It is our hope that we can build a student govern­ment that allows students to chart their own course for the future of Notre Dame.” 
Gans, Zupancic win office 
Saint Mary’s juniors Nicole Gans and Jackie Zupancic earned 37.2 percent of votes to win the positions of Student Government Association (SGA) president and vice president, respectively, and took office April 1. 
The team defeated juniors Emma Brink and Liz Busam and junior Casie Palmer and sophomore Maureen Parsons to win. 
During their campaign, Gans and Zupancic said they hoped to improve tech­nology on campus, continue renovating the Le Mans Hall basement, better communi­cation between students and their govern­ment and foster a sense of community. 
“The major goals of our platform were to help Saint Mary’s become more ecological­ly friendly, increase pride in Saint Mary’s and help develop better communication of policies and procedures, such as the allot­ment process,” Zupancic said. 
“We are extremely honored to be serving the Saint Mary’s student body and we hope that the students view us as a resource for support, guidance and information.” 
Notre Dame sophomore dies 
Sophomore Sean Valero, described by friends as a quiet and hardworking stu­dent, died in mid-April. He was 21. 
Valero, originally from Nishayuna, N.Y., was a resident of Keenan Hall and a dou­ble major in pre-professional studies and philosophy. 
The St. Joseph County coroner’s office ruled Valero’s death a suicide. 
While Valero was more introverted than outgoing, sophomore Stephen Schwaner said he most enjoyed spending time in the dorm with his friends. 
“He was a really good guy, and had a really good heart,” he said. “Every single person that he met seemed to take an immediate liking to him.” 
At a memorial Mass for Valero, a mem­ber of Campus Ministry read a statement written from the Valero family for the members of the Notre Dame community. 

second consecutive year 
Bloomberg Businessweek ranked the Mendoza Col­lege of Business as the No. 1 undergraduate business school in the nation for the second consecutive year.According to a Uni­versity press release, Men­doza ranked in the top spot due to the school’s 98 percent placement rate three months after gradu­ation. Notre Dame also received the highest rate of student satisfaction. 
Mar. 15—IOSHA fnds six Notre Dame violations 
The Indiana Occupa­tional Health and Safety Administration (IOSHA) found Notre Dame guilty of six violations after a four-and-a-half month investigation into the October death of junior Declan Sullivan, the Indi­ana Department of Labor announced March 15. 

record donation of $10 million on March 26. Class of 1995 alumna Jen­nifer Mathile Prikkel and her parents, Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile, donated the single largest private gift in the history of Saint Mary’s College. The donors gave the money to both renovate the Saint Mary’s College Science Hall and inspire others to invest in edu­cating young women in science. 
Junior Pat McCormick and sophomore Brett Roche­leau won the election for the Notre Dame student body president and vice president after captur­ing 64 percent of votes in the Feb. 17 runoff.Saint Mary’s juniors Nicole Gans and Jackie Zupancic earned 37.2 percent of votes to win the positions of Student Government Association (SGA) presi­dent and vice president, respectively. 
“There is something you can do for us. When you leave here tonight and go home, tell somebody there that you love them and that you appreciate them. And then live that out every day,” the statement read. 
2011-2012 Forum to focus on education 
The 2011-2012 Notre Dame Forum, focused on the American educational sys­tem, kicked off with a panel discussion April 13 titled “The System: Opportunity, Crisis and Obligation in K-12 Education.” 
The panel consisted of four national experts in education including the founder and CEO of StudentsFirst, the director of Marquette University’s Institute for the Transformation of Learning and the inau­gural director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. 
This year’s Forum continued in the tradi­tion of focusing on large-scale issues. Panelists from the 2010-11 Forum, “The Marketplace and the Common Good,” approached the issue of global economics from many different angles. University pro­fessors and alumni participated in the panel and New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman gave a lecture at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in November. 
Campus reacts to bin Laden’s death 
Hundreds of Notre Dame students cele­brated with fireworks, flags and “U.S.A.” chants on campus after learning of terror­ist Osama bin Laden’s death May 1. 
For some Notre Dame students, the event had personal significance. Freshman Beau Dolan’s father was among the Pentagon employees responding to the World Trade Center attacks in New York when Flight 77 flew into his office window. 
“It’s never going to be gone, but I felt really relieved yesterday — a weird kind of peace,” Dolan said. “This guy murdered my dad, and he has been on the run for 10 years. I never got that sense of justice. After 10 years, I think I deserved to be ecstatic about this.” 
Along with the show of patriotism, stu­dents tried to balance their celebration with an understanding of the event’s inter­national significance. 
“Retribution and revenge were not the motivating factors that came out of that day for me,” senior Christopher Bennett said. “Rather, I realized that the world can be dangerous. There is a need for people to step up and protect each other, and a need for greater awareness of our sur­roundings in the increasing globalized world.” 
April—Notre Dame sophomore dies 
Sophomore Sean Valero, described by friends as a quiet and hardworking student, died in mid-April. He was 21. Valero, originally from Nishayuna, N.Y., was a resident of Keenan Hall and a double major in pre­professional studies and philosophy. 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


University awards 2011 Laetare Medal 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Sr. Mary Scullion and Joan McConnon, co-founders of Project H.O.M.E, will jointly receive the Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics, during the 2011 Commencement ceremony. 
The Laetare Medal is the University’s highest honor and is awarded annually to a Catholic “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity,” a University press release said. 
Project H.O.M.E (Housing, Opportunities for Employment, Medical Care and Education) is an organization dedicated to ending homelessness in Philadelphia. Scullion serves as executive direc­tor for Project H.O.M.E. and McConnon is the associate execu­tive director and chief financial officer. 
“In their work for the homeless in Philadelphia, Srs. Scullion and Joan McConnon have splendidly answered the Gospel summons to brotherly love,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said. “Serving the unsheltered Lord on the streets of their hometown, they have provided an example for oth­ers to serve likewise in cities worldwide.” 
Scullion and McConnon, both Philadelphia natives, founded Project H.O.M.E. in 1989, accord­ing to the release. Project H.O.M.E. began providing emergency shel­ter for about 50 homeless men and grew to form a community for chronically homeless men and women. The project provides them with food, clothing, medical care, employment and a sense of dignity, the release stated. 
Project H.O.M.E. now includes 480 units of housing and two busi­nesses that provide employment for formerly homeless people. Scullion and McConnon developed the project into a national model for community development in low-income neighborhoods. 
The two initiated renovation of inner city vacant lots, economic development, home-ownership ini­tiatives for working poor families and education and employment programs for youth and adults. 
According to the release, 95 per­cent of the homeless who partici­pated in their project have not returned to the streets. Project 
H.O.M.E. is widely credited for reducing Philadelphia’s homeless population by half. 
The daughter of Irish immi­grants, Sr. Scullion entered the Sisters of Mercy in 1976 after graduating from St. Joseph’s University. She earned a master’s degree in social work from Temple University in 1986. 
Joan McConnon graduated from Pennsylvania State University and earned a master’s degree in taxa­tion from Drexel University in 1989. She returned to Philadelphia to work with the homeless after spending six years as an account­ant. 
The Laetare Medal is named for Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. The University traditional­ly announces its recipient on that day each year. The University began awarding the honor in 1883. 
The last recipient of the Laetare Medal was poet Dana Gioia in 2010. Past recipients include oper­atic tenor John McCormack, United States President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day and Cardinal Joseph Bernadin. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

ND awards 12 honorary degrees 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 

Notre Dame will award 12 honorary degrees at this year’s Commencement in addition to the honorary degree it will give commencement speaker Robert Gates. 
Gates, the U.S. secretary of defense, will receive an hon­orary doctor of laws degree. The other recipients will be honored with degrees in law, science and engineering. 
Charles Lennon, associate vice president for University rela­tions, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree before he retires in June. Lennon served the University for over 30 years as the executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Under his leadership, the associ­ation grew from 151 to 276 alumni clubs around the world. 
Lou Holtz, famed Irish football coach from 1986 to 1996, will be awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. Holtz led Notre Dame to the 1988 national championship and is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame. 
On three occasions during Holtz’s tenure as coach, the Irish held the highest graduation rate among Division I-A football pro­grams. An active philanthropist, Holtz works with the Touching Tiny Lives Foundation and the Women’s Care Center of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
The University will also award Shirin Ebadi, recipient of the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize, an hon­orary doctor of laws degree. As an Iranian lawyer and the first woman justice in the history of the Iranian judicial system, Ebadi founded the Defenders of Human Rights Center in Iran. She received the Nobel Peace Prize for her significant efforts regarding democracy and human rights for women, chil­dren and refugees. 
Michael Brennan, a leading pioneer in the field of modern finance, will receive an hon­orary doctor of laws degree from the University. Brennan is a professor emeritus of finance at UCLA and the London Business School. His research in financial markets and work in corporate finance significantly impact the development of finance as a science. 
John Glynn, a 1962 graduate of Notre Dame, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. Glynn is founder and president of Glynn Capital Management, a California venture capital invest­ment firm, and a member of the University’s Board of Trustees. 
Glynn and his wife endowed a chair in literature at Notre Dame and their family made a leadership gift to expand and fortify the Glynn Family Honors Program through the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science. 
Jacqueline Novogratz will also be awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. Novogratz is the founder and chief executive offi­cer of the Acumen Fund. The Fund, a global nonprofit ven­ture, has invested more than $40 million in over 35 compa­nies in developing countries. 
Notre Dame will award Bishop Gerald Kicanas an honorary doctor of laws degree. Kicanas, the bishop of Tucson, Ariz., was vice president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops from 2007 to 2010. As a propo­nent of Catholic education, he partnered with Notre Dame’s Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) to establish three ACE Academy schools in the Diocese of Tucson. 
Huguette Labelle, a global leader in anti-corruption efforts, will also receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. Labelle chairs the board of Transparency International, an organization that promotes transparency in international politics and business. She is also a member of the board of the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative for businesses to promote standards of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 
Mary Beth O’Brien will be honored with a doctor of laws degree. O’Brien dedicates her­self to the work of the Ladies of Charity USA (LSUSA), the American affiliate of an interna­tional organization that responds to the needs of the poor. She served as the presi­dent of the organization, a rep­resentative to the United Nations for the International Association of Charities, a trustee of Catholic Charities USA and a member of the American Housing Foundation. All six of her chil­dren are Notre Dame graduates. 
John Mather, a co-recipient of the 2006 Nobel Prize for physics, will be awarded an honorary doctor of science degree. He is a senior anthro­pologist in the Observational Cosmology Laboratory at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center and senior project scientist for the James Webb Space Telescope. Mather received the Nobel Prize along with George Smoot for developing a satellite project to study the early uni­verse. 
French mathematician Laurent Lafforgue will also receive an honorary doctor of science degree. Lafforgue is a professor at the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques. He received the 2002 Fields Medal, the mathematical equivalent of the Nobel Prize. Lafforgue is also actively engaged in issues related to French public educa­tion. 
The University will award Michael Griffin an honorary doc­tor of engineering degree. From April 2005 to January 2009, Griffin served as the 11th NASA administrator, where he over­saw work on the future of human spaceflight, the fate of the Hubble telescope and the agency’s role in understanding climate change. Since leaving NASA, he joined the faculty in mechanical and aerospace engi­neering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Students honored as 2011 class valedictorians 
Wassel’s passion for writing flourished at SMC 
By OLIVIA BRACH 
News Writer 
Senior Sam Wassel was named the Class of 2011 valedictorian and will speak to her fellow senior class at Commencement Saturday. 
Wassel, an English Writing major who graduated in December 2010, said she was instantly attracted to the College. 
“I was drawn to the per­sonal environment I detected at Saint Mary’s on my vari­ous visits to the College as well as its high academic standards and reputation,” she said. 
Wassel said she took an unanticipated turn when declaring a major. Though she originally intended to study chemistry, Wassel said encouragement from her sophomore cre­ative writing professor led 


“I write because I feel 

compelled 
her to reconsid-“I write because I feel er her decision. 
compelled to do so
“I realized 

and because I fnd a
that I gained infinitely more great deal of joy and enjoyment and 
fulfllment in the 
fulfillment in 

creative process.” 
completing a 

one -page cre ­ative writing Sam Wassel assignment than 
SMC valedictorian 
I did in drawing the various chair conforma­
to do so and because I find a great deal of joy and fulfill ­ment in the creative process,” she said. Since grad­uating, Wassel said her zeal for English and writing has increased . She is cur ­rently work­

tions of cyclohexane,” she ing on a fictional piece that said. began as her senior writing 
From then on, Wassel project. embraced her passion for “I would like to see some writing. of my original work, whether it be my poetry or fiction, published,” she said. “What writer doesn’t dream of one day perusing the aisles of a bookstore and seeing her original work in print?” 
Though Wassel is excited about the future, she said she is not immune to the appre­hension that comes with speaking in front of hundreds. 
“My major is in English writing, not communications,” she said. “The first step is simply getting to the podium without tripping and falling flat on my face. If I can suc­cessfully execute step one, hopefully everything else, minus me, will fall into place.” 
Contact Olivia Brach at obrach01@saintmarys.edu 
Larkin reflects on years at Notre Dame, looks to future 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Valedictorian Edward Larkin will address the Class of 2011 Sunday as the seniors congregate in the Notre Dame Stadium for the last time as a whole during the Commencement Ceremony. 
As he reflects on his years at Notre Dame, Larkin said passion for ideas is more important than academic scores. 
“Students of our generation are defined by numbers — tests, class ranks, GPAs, ACTs, SATs — this is how we view our life,” Larkin said. “I think going into the real world, people succeed by clinging to an idea and going out and doing it.” 
Facebook co-founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg is an example for this generation, Larkin said, because he did not let these num­bers block him from his dream. 
“Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard, but he had an idea and stuck with it,” Larkin said. “It is not about our rankings. It is about what we think and do … That is what I hope the graduating Class of 2011 will get out of my speech.” 
Larkin, a native of East Lansing, Mich., spent four years on campus in Fisher Hall. 
“Between Spring Break, football games and random moments on campus, I look back and realize all of the great times I have had with my friends,” Larkin said. “The most unique thing about Notre Dame is the dorm structure we have.” 
Larkin said some of his most memorable moments revolve around the close friendships he made within Fisher. 
“After four years, you find that you have a lot of really good friends from inside the dorm. I will be friends with these guys for the rest of my life,” Larkin said. 
Larkin, a biological sciences major, will graduate with a sup­plementary major in classical civi­lization. Larkin recognized two professors as instrumental in his development as a student. The first was Professor Zachary Schafer from the Department of Biology. 
“[Schafer] is a smart, exciting guy,” Larkin said. “I took Tumor Cell Biology with him in the 2010 Spring Semester and the way he taught the class was incredible.” 
The second was Professor David Hernandez in the Department of Classics. 
“I have taken two classes with [Hernandez], including Classical Archaeology,” Larkin said. “He’s one of the best young archaeolo­gists in the world and showed me how truly messy our history is.” 
One of the highlights of his col­lege career was his research last summer in New York. 
“One of my proudest accom­plishments during my time here is the research I conducted concern­ing developmental neuroscience last summer at Cold Spring Harbor laboratory in Long Island, N.Y.,” Larkin said. “It was a pretty competitive program to get into.” 
Outside of the classroom, Larkin also wrote a bi-weekly column for The Observer. His column focused on the intersection of science, technology and society as well as the cultural and social implica­tions of modern science. 
“Something I have really enjoyed doing is writing for The Observer,” Larkin said. “I am real­ly proud of everything I have writ­ten and I love the feedback I get from each column.” 
The Class of 2011 valedictorian will spend his summer in Olympia, Greece, studying cross-cultural interaction through Harvard University. In the fall, he will begin one year of study at the London School of Economics to receive a Master of Science degree in philosophy and public policy. 
“I want to concentrate on the policy surrounding end-of-life health care,” Larkin said. “As an aspiring neurosurgeon, I believe the cost of end-of-life health care is a policy we seriously need to rethink.” 
Through writing and research, Larkin hopes to change the public outlook on health care. 
“This is something that really drives me,” Larkin said. “I want to write for a broad audience to aid in the rational approach to the future by our society.” 
After his year in London, Larkin will pursue medical school. Larkin will decide between Columbia University, Yale University and University of Pennsylvania for his medical studies. 
“It was a big moment when I got accepted into medical school,” Larkin said. “For anyone who wants to become a doctor, that moment has to be really special.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 



SMC to honor former Southwest exec with doctoral degree 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The former president of Southwest Airlines will receive an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree from Saint Mary’s during the Commencement ceremony Saturday. 
Colleen Barrett, who joined Southwest Airlines when the com­pany was founded in 1971 and worked her way up to become president, said she encourages graduates to pursue a career based on their passions rather 

than money. said they should  attempt to match teamwork, accountability, confi- Barrett advised business majors  
“Don’t ever take a job for the their interests w ith their career dentiality in terms of clients,” she  to learn from networking and  
pay or the title,” Barrett said. paths.  said.  from their co-workers.  
“Take it only “If your avoc ation and your Although some lessons were dif- College classes are only a start  
if you are vocation can be t he same, you are ficult to grasp, others proved to be  to the business world, she said.  
comfortable a very fortunate  person,” she said. very valuable lessons in Barrett’s  “Don’t go out there thinking you  
that you “In my opinion,  when this is the life.  are ready to teach anyone any- 
share a pas-case, then wor k really doesn’t “[I realized that the] satisfaction  thing,” she said. “Instead, go out  
sion for seem like work, a nd it can actually of making a positive difference  there to grasp as much knowledge  
whatever the be enjoyable.”  each day was far more important  as possible from those who have  
basic cause Barrett said t he most difficult and rewarding to me than pay or  been there for awhile.”  
the organiza­part of the transi tion from college accolades,” Barrett said.  Barrett stepped down from her  
tion you are to the business  world was the Barrett also discovered common  position as president of Southwest  
Barrett joining is realization that s he had a lot left sense and good judgment were  Airlines in 2008.  
embracing.” to learn.  valuable traits to possess in the  
As the women prepare to begin “[The hardest  part was] realiz­business world and can be used to  Contact Caitlin Housley at  
their life after graduation, Barrett ing how much I h ad to learn about build relationships.  chousl01@saintmarys.edu  

Class of 2011 graduates enter the job market 
were 12 months ago.” 

By KRISTEN DURBIN News Writer  Monahan said companie s conducted 30 percent more  
interviews  on  campus during  
As current seniors prepare  this academic year compared  
to enter a new phase in their  to last year. These interviews  
lives, many will benefit from  led companies like KPMG and  
a  rebounding economy and  Target to hire  more  graduat­ 
join the workforce in  a  few  ing Notre Dame students this  
weeks.  year than in previous years,  
Kevin Monahan, associate  he said.  
director of the Notre Dame  “ K P M G  n o r m a l l y  h i r e s  
Career Center, said the job  about 30 graduating students  
market for the class of 2011  for full-time positions, but  
has improved from what it  this year, they hired 41,” he  
was one to two years ago.  said. “Target usually hires 12  
“With any year, the timing  to  14 graduating students,  
o f  h i r i n g  d e p e n d s  o n  t h e  and thi s year that number  
n e ed s o f t h e i n d u s t ry, ” h e  went up to 19.”  
said. “But  across  the board,  S e n i o r  S a r a h  We i l e r,  a  
almost every field  was  better  chemical engineering major,  
this year, from banking and  a c c e p t e d  a  po sit i o n  a t  t h e  
f i n a n c e  t o  m a r k e t i n g  a n d  chemical company HallStar  
retail to engineering.  after working  as  an  intern BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer  
In 2010, 82 percent of the  there last  summer.  The hunt  
senior class had definite plans  for a job market seemed easi­ 
for graduate school, service  er than that for an internship,  a r e  n o t  a s  r o b u s t  a s  t h e y  English and Film, Television  nity.  
or employment at the time of  she said.  were  in the years leading up  and Theatre at Notre Dame,  “[Working at Epic] is a great  
their graduation, and 98 per­ “This year, companies got  to the crisis, but opportunities  she will work after gradua­ way for me to get some work  
cent of the class had solidified  b a c k  t o  m e  f a s t e r  a b o u t  are  available for those who  tion at Epic Systems, which  experience with a  great  com- 
its plans within three months  potential positions in compar­ p u t s t r o n g  e f f o r t  i n t o  t h e  specializes in online medical  pany,  save  some  money and  
of graduation, Monahan said.  ison with last year,” Weiler  process.”  records. She said obtaining  a  take some time away from an  
He said he anticipates this  said. “In that respect, [the job  Weeldreyer said the invest- job with the company  came  academic setting  to  decide  
year’s class to reach up to 85  market]  was  better, but peo­ ment bank offered him a full- rather unexpectedly.  what I want to study in the  
percent of definite plans fol­ ple weren’t falling over them- time position  on  the last day  “My plan has always been to  future,” she said.  
lowing graduation. According  se lv es  to  off er yo u jobs  or  of his internship. He said his  work for  a  couple of years  T h e  C a r e e r  C e n t e r  w i l l  
t o  a  2 0 1 1  s t u d y  b y  t h e  anything.”  work with Credit Suisse ulti­ and then go back to graduate  assist g r ad uati n g s tudent s  
N a t i o n a l  A s s o c i a t i o n  f o r  Senior Eric Weeldreyer, who  mately paid off.  school because I’m still not  s t i l l  s e e k i n g e m p l o y m e n t ,  
Colleges and Employers, only  w i l l w o r k  a t  C r e d i t S u i s s e  “My experience looking for  sure  what I want to study in  Monahan said.  
24 percent of graduating sen- a f t e r  i n t e r n i n g  w i t h  t h e  a  job  was  more  my experi-graduate school,” Manfred  “Looking for a job is always  
iors  across  the nation have  a  investment bank last summer,  ence  looking for  an  intern- said. “I decided I wanted to  difficult, stressful and  never  
job in hand.  said he thinks the job market  ship,” he said. “The experi­ do something outside of the  easy, but we’re committed to  
“Those  are  the traditional  for his class has improved.  ence  was  quite stressful and  theater,  so  I cast out  a  lot of  helping any student that is  
numbers, but this year,  we  “Corporate hiring has  cer­ felt very competitive, but that  lines with no specific require- still actively seeking employ- 
expect more students to have  t ainly rebounded for well-i n t e r n s h i p  w a s  t h e  k e y  t o  ments in mind.”  ment  or  definite plans,” he  
more definite plans at gradu­ qualified college grads [from]  f i n d i n g  f u l l -t i m e  e m p l o y - Although the position does  said.  
ation time,” Monahan said.  the depths of the financial  ment.”  n o t  d i r e c t l y  r e l a t e  t o  h e r  
“There  are  definitely  more  crisis and recession,” he said.  T h o u g h  s e n i o r  K a t i e  career  goals, Manfred said  Contact Kristen Durbin at  
opportunities  now  than there  “The job markets certainly  Manfred double majored in  she is embracing the opportu­ kdurbin@nd.edu  

Graduates give College decorative clock for senior gift 
Julie Laemmle said seniors years,” she said. tributed in April. Saint Mary’s women the 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 

voted among three options — Although voting for the class Both Lowry and Laemmle opportunity to learn and grow 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

the clock, a tree to be planted gift ended last week, seniors felt a special connection to become as inspirational as outside of Spes Unica and a are still able to donate to the between their donations and the women that have gone 
This year’s graduates will scholarship for an incoming Senior Campaign Fund. future classes at Saint Mary’s. before them,” Laemmle said. give the gift of time to their freshman. With a majority of Members of the Campaign will “I made my class gift alma mater as their senior the votes, the clock was the be accepting donations because I know how impor-Contact Caitlin Housley at gift. class favorite. throughout Senior Week and tant it is to provide future chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
The Class of 2011 decided to Seven members of the Class during the Tower Tours donate a clock to the Spes Gift Campaign, including Friday. Unica lounge as its senior gift, Lowry and Laemmle, present-Laemmle said the Class Gift Senior Campaign member ed the gift to President Carol Campaign is a chance for all Colleen Lowry said. Ann Mooney at the Alumnae-classes to give back and show 
“The [Spec Unica] clock is a Senior champagne brunch their support for Saint Mary’s. large decorative clock that Monday. The Class of 2011 made will be placed in the Spes Laemmle said she used her donations to the Senior Gift lobby to remind Saint Mary’s dedication to the Class Gift Campaign throughout its four women that their time is pre-Campaign as a way to thank years at Saint Mary’s and cious and that they should Saint Mary’s. raised a total of $2,500. take advantage of the oppor-“I enjoyed being involved in Twenty-four percent of the tunities that are presented to the senior class gift because it class participated, Lowry them in the four years they is a way to give back to Saint said. have at SMC,” Lowry said. Mary’s and show how thank-Approximately $1,600 of 
Senior Campaign member ful I am for the past four those donations were con ­


Members of Class of 2011 plan to enter religious life 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Senior Michael Daly submit­ted an application to medical school, but said he did not feel at peace wi th the prospect of a medical career after graduation. 
Instead of becoming a doc­tor, Daly will enter the St. Paul Seminary in the Archdiocese of Minneapolis-St. Paul in August. 
“It was hard to surrender my whole life’s wor k and dream to something so unkno wn, mysterious, yet glorious and peace-filled,” he said. “I cann ot try to be something I am not, so I must become the best version of myself. I pulled my applica­tion fr om medical school because my love for Je sus was true.” 
While his parents strongly influenced his faith forma­tion, Daly said participating in an International Summer Service Learning Proj ect (ISSLP) in India in 2008 was a “transforming experience.” 
“I fell in love with the Eucharist and Christ’s mass,” he said. “Jesus was the only constant in my life, amongst all the chaos and extreme poverty and illnesses. I relied on the power and love of the Eucharist in Calcutta.” 
Daly said his friends and family have been supportive of his decision, though not without some playful responses. 
“I do remem ber some friends telling me not to be discouraged that I haven’t found a girlfriend at Notre Dame. There are wonderful women in the real world,” he said. “I simply la ughed at their mi sunderstanding, because it’s not about what I am giving up, but what I am gaining — love and fulfill-me nt in the love of the Eucharist. I’ll be with Jesus, what’s better than that?” 
Hi s four years at Notre Dame were especially instru­mental in the decision to fol­low a religious vocation. 
“Notre Dame allows your vocation to be cultivated and harvested in a patient, sup­portive and gentle manner. I’ve visited other Catholic and non-Catholic universities and I was aware of the lack of Jesus’ presen ce,” he said. “There is something unique and blessed with having a chapel in almost every build­ing. Jesus is literally every­where in the tabernacle.” 
Daly is not the only senior pursuing a vocation in reli­gious life after graduation. 
Fr. Jim Gallagher, director of the Office of Vocations for the Cong regation of Holy Cross, said five seniors par­ticipated in the Old College program during their time at Notre Dame and will enter the Holy Cross Novitiate in the fall. 
Two additional seniors will enter their be ginning Candidate Year this fall, Gallagher said. They lived as regular students during their time at the University. 
Gallagher said not all those who choose a religious path following graduation have the same academic experi­ence during their ti me at Notre Dame. 
“The men of Old College are the only ones who are in a specific seminary program and th ey take all of their classes with the general stu­dent community,” he said. “Other s who are entering after graduation have majors in a range of subjects.” 
Many students began their life at Notre Dame without a plan to enter the priesthood, Gallagher said, but they started to investigate their vocation as they developed their interests. 
“For those entering into a religious or priestly vocation, they will most likely partici­pate regularly in the sacra­ments, they will work with a spiritual director, they will talk with a vocations director and they will take many of their questions about their future to prayer,” Gallagher said. 
Senior Christopher Gautsch, who is entering the Dominican Order following graduation, said he felt a strong calling to enter the priesthood after graduation. 
“I am entering religious life because I think God is calling me to do it,” he said. “Don’t get me wrong, I want to do it too, but it all started when I started to perceive God beck­oning me towards it.” 
Gautsch made his decision to enter the Dominican novi­tiate in February and was accepted to th e Order on Easter Monday. The decision was not an immediate one for him, he said. 
“I went through most of my undergraduate career before making the choice to enter religious life,” he said. “If it has been different, though, it is just that my love for theol­

ogy has grown with the knowledge that I might mys elf be teaching and preaching the ver y same things one day.” 
While his decision was not solely influenced by his expe­rience at Notre Dame, Gautsch said the University’s atmosphere helped him develop his faith life. 
“Even though Notre Dame is not without its problems, the community of holy friends and the emphasis on the life 
of faith that I found here would have been much hard­er, if not impossible, to find at many other schools,” he said. 
Gautsch, who will spend a year in Cincinnati before beginning his seminary stud­ies in Washington, D.C., said his frien ds at Notre Dame supported him as he tried to determine his vocation. 
“I am blessed to have friends who want me to do what God wants me to do and would support me no matter what I discerned that to be,” he said. 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

Students to volunteer after graduation 
Graduates pursue missions with Teach for America, Alliance for Catholic Education, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Peace Corps 
ers is a learning experience 

By TORI ROECK for graduates. 
News Writer “Both the person encoun­
tered and the Notre Dame 

Over 160 members of the student are equally affected Class of 2011 will pursue by that encounter,” Hebbeler post-graduate service work, said. “Students are personal-said Michael Hebbeler, direc-ly challenged by this year of tor of the Center for Social service. They have to wrestle Concern’s Senior Transitions with these issues that they Program. experience through the peo­
“There’s a great culture of ple they encounter and it service learning here and so causes them to reflect on how these students … embody they understand themselves that,” Hebbeler in relationship said. “They to others and in take that into relationship to 
“[These students] 
places that are the world.” under-have chosen a less Hebbeler said resourced that comfortable path and the decision to do need strong pursue post ­
that takes some
teachers, advo-graduate serv­cates, you courage.” ice is noble, yet name it.” difficult. 
These seniors “[These stu ­
Michael Hebbeler 
will pursue dents] have 
director
service across chosen a less 
Center for Social
a broad range comfortabl e 
of programs, Concerns path and that including takes some Teach for courage,” America, Alliance for Hebbeler said. one year. In her position, that I definitely want to be larly because it hasn’t been Catholic Education (ACE) and The Center for Social Fernandez will interact with very conscious of and strive solely academic. When I’ve the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Concerns will honor these the Hispanic and toward in spoken to professors, they’ve Hebbeler said. students during a special Native American this upcom -not only addressed how I’m 
Hebbeler also said he saw a gathering at 1 p.m. Saturday communities in “I defnitely want to ing year, ” doing in class but how I’m rising interest in internation-in Leighton Concert Hall. Omak, Wash., gain a wider Fernandez doing as a person.” al service. Fifty-seven stu-The speakers at this year’s through the said. While she is nervous to 
worldview, challenge
dents applied for positions in ceremony will include N o r t h w e s t The mis -leave college and begin her the Peace Corps. University President Fr. John Justice Project, myself, make myself sion of the post -graduate experience, 
Post-graduate service is a Jenkins and Executive a pro-bono legal uncomfortable in this University Fernandez said the next step real-world application of the Director for the Center of services group was also a in her life promises to be an 
forced displacement
lessons many students Social Concerns Fr. Bill Lies. stationed in the major factor invaluable one. learned in their classrooms Nora Jones Bondi, a 2002 P a c i f i c because that is how in her deci-“I definitely want to gain a at Notre Dame, Hebbeler Notre Dame alumna who Northwest. you grow and that is sion to pur-wider worldview, challenge said. joined the Mercy Home for Fernandez said sue service, myself, make myself uncom­
how you push
“It is a chance to really Boys and Girls in Chicago her time as a Fernandez fortable in this forced dis-commit to social issues that after graduating and remains resident assis -yourself a little bit said. placement because that is need people to work toward an employee there to this tant (RA) influ-further.” “I ’ve been how you grow and that is change and to address seri-day, will also speak. enced her call-trying to put how you push yourself a little ous concerns of poverty and Students will also receive ing to post-grad-my heart in bit further,” Fernandez said. 
Bianca Fernandez 
injustice with an aim toward journals to fill with reflec-uate service. the right “I’m very sad to leave Notre caring for the people afflicted tions during their time of “I really senior place,” Dame, but Iknow Ineed to by these structures and then service, Hebbeler said. enjoyed my year F e r n a n d e z do it.” working to change these Senior Bianca Fernandez here as an RA said. “I am structures,” Hebbeler said. will join the Jesuit Volunteer and being present in people’s grateful for my education Contact Tori Roeck at 
Hebbeler said serving oth-Corps after graduation for lives, and that’s something here at Notre Dame particu-vroeck@nd.edu 

Football disappoints seniors 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
After witnessing the worst four-season stretch in the histo­ry of Notre Dame football, sen­ior Elise Gerspach said winning her final home game against the University of Utah made up for past disappointment. 
“It was really important for us because we were so unfazed by losing at that point,” Gerspach said. “Winning the last game made us see that despite the past four years, we can win.” 
The Class of 2011 witnessed a 3-9 record in 2007, suffering the most losses in a single sea­son in the program’s history. This year’s senior class finished with a four-year stretch of 24 victories and 26 defeats. 
Senior Holly Hinz said her freshman year also brought the lowest point of the four seasons. In their third home game, Notre Dame broke its 43-game win streak against Navy, losing in triple overtime. 
“After the game the announc­er just said ‘And there ends Notre Dame’s 43-year winning streak against Navy’,” Hinz said. “Everyone just thought, ‘Come on, as if 


we don’t know “Being a Notre Dame ly after winning 
that already.’” fan is the overall the last home Although the game.” 
experience. You’re 
wins were few Despite attend-and far between with your classmates ing Notre Dame their freshman and everyone is during the four year, senior worst seasons in 
obviously feeling the
Chrissie Gotimer football history, 
same.” 
said they were Hinz said she is memorable. able to find 
“Having the humor in the dis-
Tim Sweeney 
first five games tinction. 
senior 
as losses was disappointing but it made that sixth game that we won against UCLA (the University of California-Los Angeles) even more exciting,” she said. 
Although the game was played in California, Gotimer said students reacted strongly to the first win of the season. 
“Everyone rushed out of the dorms and into the fountain and started singing the alma mater,” she said. “Kids were just sprint­ing everywhere onto the quad, playing music and going crazy.” 
Gerspach said the highlight of her freshman season was Notre Dame’s victory over Duke University. 
“It was the last home game as well as the first win we saw at home,” Gerspach said. “It was nice actually feeling good after a game.” 
Senior Tim Sweeney said though the Fighting Irish ulti­mately finished 7-6 in 2008, their victory over the University of Michigan renewed optimism. 
“It was pretty cool, it was raining and it was only the sec­ond game of the season,” Sweeney said. “It gave us a little bit of hope.” 
Senior Josh Zavilla said the first game of the 2009 season against the University of Nevada provided a sense of optimism. 
“We ended up winning 35-0 and that gave us a hope for having a good year that we didn’t really have the year before,” Zavilla said. “That plus the fact that it was foot­ball season again, it just seemed like a new year, a new start.” 
In their final regular-season game of 2010, Notre Dame beat the University of Southern California (USC), ending an eight-game loss streak to the Trojans. Gerspach, who trav­eled to Los Angeles for the game, said witnessing the Fighting Irish’s victory was unforgettable. 
“That was the real way we ended our football seasons here at Notre Dame,” he said. “It was such a huge momentum change, especial­
“I also would 
not be surprised 
if we win a national championship the year we leave,” she said. 
Sweeney said witnessing so many losses was made easier by doing so in good company. 
“Being a Notre Dame fan is the overall experience. You’re with your classmates and every­one is obviously feeling the same,” he said. “We were losing but everyone always felt we were going to win every game. There’s always that hope.” 
As someone who was raised to be a Notre Dame fan since birth, Gerspach said she came with expectations of greatness, and it was not easy suffering through the record stretch. 
“The first season was depressing and just hard to watch,” Gerspach said. “Every year we went in with the hope that it’ll be better and then it just wasn’t. It was always really hard.” 
Despite her disappointment, Gerspach said has not been deterred from cheering for Notre Dame beyond graduation. 
“It became something we just accepted — this is how our four years was,” she said. “By senior year we all came to realize, ‘I’m going to be a Notre Dame fan for the rest of my life, and it just happened to be tough when I was at school.’” 
Gotimer said though she was a student for a lean period in Fighting Irish football history, she anticipates a brighter future. 
“It’s not necessarily easy to follow a team that fell from greatness,” she said. “But when they do rise, it’s going to be pretty exciting.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
Author Borchard to addressSMCgraduates 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
When asked to address the Class of 2011 at Saint Mary’s Commencement ceremony this year, Therese Johnson Borchard said the opportunity would mean more to her than winning a Pulitzer Prize. 
“I think being chosen as the Saint Mary’s Commencement speaker is the highest honor I can think of,” Borchard said in a College press release. “Much of who I am today was formed in my four years at Saint Mary’s. The school is really part of my soul because it was there that I found the courage to be me.” 
Borchard graduated from Saint Mary’s in 1993 with a degree in religious studies and she is now an active contribu­tor to the field of psychology. She serves as the associate edi­tor of Psych Central and the author of an award-winning blog called “World of Psychology.” 
Catherine Pittman, associate professor of clinical psychology, said she is excited to hear from a speaker with experience in a field relevant to many gradu­ates’ future careers. 
“I am glad to have a speaker who is focused on assisting peo­ple as they struggle with issues of depression and other chal­lenges,” Pittman said. “I know that students in the Psychology Department are especially interested in hearing from her because many of them share a commitment to trying to assist others as they cope with life’s challenges.” 
As an alumna, Borchard is a role model for students prepar­ing for life after Saint Mary’s, Pittman said. 
“[Borchard’s] shared back­ground as a Saint Mary’s woman gives our students con­fidence that, like her, they can go out to make a difference in the world,” she said. “I know that seniors feel a sense of mas­tery based on their experiences at [the College,] but they won­der if what they have learned will translate into meaningful opportunities and accomplish­ments in the real world.” 
In addition to her work at Psych Central, Borchard also contributes to the daily blog “Beyond Blue,” a site dedicated to those suffering from depres­sion, according to the press release. She also authored and edited a number of psychology publications related to depres­sion and is a columnist for the Catholic News Service. 
Borchard hopes to incorpo­rate the knowledge she has gained from working in her field into her commencement address Saturday, the press release stated. Borchard said she will discuss how students can live an authentic life, even if it means facing rejection to share their talents and gifts with the world. 
Pittman said Borchard’s address should inspire the Class of 2011 as the women leave the College. 
“I think [Borchard] will help them feel more confident and empowered as a result of what she has achieved in her work.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

SeniorROTCcadetstobecommissionedasofficers 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The Class of 2011 will com­mission the second largest Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) class in more than a decade, Capt. Dale Nees, a professor of Naval Science, said. 
After serving as the com­manding officer of the Naval ROTC Unit and the tri-military chair for the ROTC program, Nees said he enjoyed watching the current seniors grow dur­ing their four years at Notre Dame. 
“I arrived when these ‘kids’ did,” Nees said. “I watched them mature. It’s significant that they’re going to be entrusted with the safety of America’s youth. They’ve been very dedicated, and they repre­sent a good cross section of the University.” 
The ceremony will take place at 9 a.m. Saturday and will be followed by a reception in the Pasquerilla Center. The Army will commission 17 2nd Lieutenants, the Air Force will commission 17 and the Marine Corps will commission six. The 
Navy  will  commission  25  
ensigns.  
Senior  Alex  Barbuto,  an  

Army cadet, said he joined ROTC as a freshman because he wanted to serve his country and follow a family tradition of military service. 
Four years later, Barbuto will be commissioned as an officer Saturday alongside 64 others seniors graduating from the ROTC program this year. 
“One of the best things we have [in Notre Dame’s ROTC] is we’re all very dedicated to helping each other out,” Barbuto said. 
Capt. Earl Carter, a professor of Naval Science and com­manding officer of the Naval ROTC Unit, said while he is new to the ROTC program, he predicts the graduating class will be successful after their time at Notre Dame. 


“These young men and women will measure up in every respect,” Carter said. 
The students at Notre Dame will make valuable contribu­tions to the military, he said. 
“From an outsider’s perspec­tive, the quality [of the stu­dents] is extraordinary,” he said. “I’m impressed. They’re going to be great additions.” 
Matthew Zak, a senior Navy midshipman, said he joined ROTC to serve the country he loves. 
“My dad and my uncle both did ROTC at Notre Dame and my dad encouraged me to look into the program,” he said. “I knew that it would be a chal­lenge, but it would set me up with a lot of experience. I also chose the Navy because I want­ed see the world and follow my dreams of being a Navy pilot.” 
Zak serves as the tri-military commander for ROTC this school year and he coordinated events between the three mili­tary branches at Notre Dame. He will be commissioned as an ensign Saturday. 
“The best thing about ROTC at Notre Dame is the unity between the group of fellow students going through the program. We have been through so much together. I would do anything for them if they needed it,” he said. “I feel they would help me out if I ever needed anything. The leadership and teaching from our instructors is second to none and they have set us all up for success in the fleet.” 
Senior Midshipman First Class Nicholas Geraci said the advisors in ROTC give the pro­gram its strength. 
“Without a doubt, Notre Dame’s ROTC program pulls in some of the highest caliber military officers to teach, men­tor and train us,” he said. “They are experts in their fields and bring various back­grounds and professional expe­riences to the table. In the course of four years, they have truly been pivotal in trans­forming us from simply ‘high schoolers’ into military officers and leaders.” 
After four years in Notre Dame’s program, senior Cadet James Hasson said members of ROTC learn to be successful officers by example. 
“After looking at successful officers and not-so-successful ones, you see that leadership isn’t about yourself,” he said. “It’s about serving the people you’re in charge of. Those offi­cers and [non-commissioned officers] I respected the most are the ones that cared about us.” 
As senior Cadet Louisa White prepares to leave Notre Dame, she said she will most miss the “college experience.” 
“[The officer commissioning] is just a new chapter in our lives,” she said. “We just learned as much as we can. In a way, we’re still students going in [to the service], even though we’re still graduated.” 
While the responsibility of the new positions is intimidat­ing for some, the ROTC seniors said it is also exciting to begin their commissions. 
“I am a little anxious, per­haps a little nervous, to set foot on that submarine for the first time and see 15 glowing eyes staring at me thinking, ‘This guy has no idea what he’s doing,’” Geraci said. “But I am also very excited and extreme­ly grateful for the training, education and experience I have received here at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Four hall rectors prepare to leave home under the Dome 
By JOHN CAMERON News Writer  life. She will seek a “less stress­ful position” after two years in Howard.  the Bald and the Beautiful in honor of Duncan resident Sam Marx who passed away from  men of Duncan have turned a building into a home we can be very proud of.”  year, great guys in the Hall,” he said. “[I’ll miss] the people, the contact — our Sunday masses  
“I try to build a relationship  cancer after his freshman year.  Eckert will move to Goodyear,  too.”  
Students graduating in the  with all the girls in the hall,”  Eckert shaved his head along- Ariz., to serve as the pastor of  Moss said the most challeng- 
Class of 2011 are not the only  she said. “But sometimes I have  side his residents during the  St. John Vianney Parish, where  ing part of the job was main- 
members of the Notre Dame  to put on the disciplinarian  fundraiser this year.  he previously served as a dea­ taining a Christian atmosphere  
community saying their good- hat.”  “One unforgettable moment  con. As a “triple Domer,” Eckert  in a men’s college residence  
byes to campus. Four hall rec- Despite the challenges of her  was seeing 65 Highlanders  said leaving campus will be dif­ hall.  
tors will leave their homes at  role, D’Amelio said she treas- gathered togeth­ ficult.  “For me personally, it was  
Notre Dame as well.  ures the opportunity to share in  er  at  the  Bald  “Without  a  having the gift of patience,” he  
Lyons Hall rector Denise McOsker spent five years in Lyons. Although she did not  the residents’ achievements. “[The best part was] just being able to work with the  and the Beautiful event this spring to  “Without a doubt, I will miss the  doubt, the great­est challenge now is saying  said. “The greatest challenge was making the effort to create a Christian community.”  
attend the University, she said she feels at home on the Notre Dame campus. “I feel like a Domer,” she said.  women and share in their excitement, when they get accepted to abroad programs or internships,” she said.  shave their heads to raise money for chil­dren’s cancer  community and brotherhood of Duncan the most. In  goodbye. After being part of such a close knit community and  Moss is unsure of his next career, but plans to remain on campus. “I’ll be at Notre Dame, and I  
“After a while, just the tradition  After  her  time  as  rector,  research,”  he  such a short time the  sharing  in  the  am blessed with a lot of oppor­ 
of this place kind of gets in your blood.” McOsker will move to Florida  D’Amelio said she was especial­ly proud of Howard’s service work. The dorm sponsored  said. “I even left my locks behind to be in solidari­ men of Duncan have turned a building into  lives of the men of Duncan, it will be challenging to  tunities,” he said. The four rectors hail from dif­ferent backgrounds, but as  
to care for her parents. She  projects for melanoma aware­ ty.”  a home we can be  step out of that,”  each prepares to leave Notre  
does not yet have a job in her new state, but she hopes for a  ness, hosted a stem cell match drive and raised funds for a  Eckert was amazed by how  very proud of.”  he said. “I know that the  Dame, they said they never anticipated serving at Notre  
position with more regular hours than a rector’s job.  water well in Africa. “To see all the service the  quickly the new residence hall  Fr. Tom Eckert  Highlanders will be in good hands  Dame as a rector. However, D’Amelio said she  
“Sleeping properly is hard ...  girls  are  doing, the creative  came  together  Duncan Hall rector  as I move on.”  was fortunate to serve in such a  
People will knock on your door  things to help other people, has  after its incep- Fisher  Hall  rewarding position.  
at 4 a.m. crying, or having to go  been wonderful to experience,”  tion. He said he  rector Fr. Robert  “It’s been an interesting jour­ 
to be at the hospital with a par- she said.  would  especially  miss  the  Moss spent 12 years among the  ney. I hope I’ve touched some  
ticularly thirsty lady,” she said.  Duncan Hall rector Fr. Tom  strong sense of community that  Fishermen and is the most vet- lives, I know these people have  
“But I was always happy to be  Eckert  joined  Duncan  Hall  has developed in Duncan dur­ eran of the departing rectors.  touched mine,” she said. “I was  
there for my women. It’s a chal­ when the dorm opened in 2008.  ing his time as rector.  Like Eckert, he said he would  where I was meant to be during  
lenge, but it’s also a privilege.”  He also took special pride in the  “Without a doubt, I will miss  miss the sense of community in  my time here.”  
Howard Hall rector Sr. Lucille  service his residents performed  the community and brother- his dorm, especially in Fisher’s  
D’Amelio agreed she would not  in the past three years.  hood of Duncan the most,” he  spiritual life.  Contact John Cameron at  
miss the schedule of a rector’s  Duncan residents organized  said. “In such a short time the  “I’ve had great staffs every  jcamero2@nd.edu  


SMC honors faculty, student 
reviews and counseled students By CAITLIN HOUSLEY who plan to attend graduate Saint Mary’s Editor school in health care. 
“I was very humbled receiv-

Saint Mary’s President Carol ing this award,” Nekvasil said. Ann Mooney presented three of “Many, many people work and the school’s most prestigious give and serve Saint Mary’s day honors to members of the in and day out. So to be select-College community earlier this ed among those individuals is a month, according to College tremendous honor.” press releases. Political Science Chair 
Professor Nancy Nekvasil, Patrick Pierce received the chair of the Department of Maria Pieta Award at the con-Biology, was this year’s recipi-vocation. “He not only demands 
ent of the Spes  the  best  from  
Unica Award for  his students, he  
her eminent service to the College. “ P r o f e s s o r  “Many, many people work and give and serve Saint Mary’s  also goes out of his way to help meet that d e m a n d , ”  
Nekvasil models  day in and day out.  Mooney said.  
selfless devotion to the College and exudes  So to be selected among those  The Maria Pieta Award was established  
b o u n d l e s s  individuals is a  in  1976  in  
enthusiasm for teaching and  tremendous honor.”  honor of Sr. Maria Pieta, a  
s c h o l a r s h i p , ” Mooney said.  Nancy Nekvasil  teacher and administrator at  
The recipient  biology department chair  Saint Mary’s.  
of the award is  Saint Mary’s  “The  award  

chosen based on nominations from Saint Mary’s students, faculty and staff, the release stated. The Academic Affairs Council makes the final deci­sion for the award. 
“She demands the best of her students, supports their efforts and takes great delight in their success,” Mooney said of Nekvasil. “A teacher-scholar, she shares her love of her dis­cipline and helps students develop their own voice in that discipline.” 
Nekvasil served on a variety of committees, including Student Affairs, Academic Standards, Faculty Affairs and the General Education Committee. According to the press release, she is also an advocate of the College writing program and an advisor for two student clubs. 
As the chair of the biology department Nekvasil led the department through extensive recognized the 

quality of teach­ing done in courses for fresh­men and sophomores,” the release stated. 
One student nomination for Pierce said his teacher was “the most valuable to my growth as an independent and analytical thinker,” the release said. 
Pierce maintains .contact with alumna from his depart­ment, especially to help current students with networking, and is also the advisor for the Saint Mary’s basketball program. 
Pierce said he was very hon­ored to receive the award. 
“I was tremendously sur­prised and pleased to receive the Maria Pieta Award. Saint Mary’s College is truly dedicat­ed to undergraduate education, so it’s a great environment for those of us who love to teach and to engage students,” Pierce said. “To be recognized among so many outstanding teachers is a real honor.” 
Junior Laura Glaub was awarded the Saint Catherine Medal. Glaub, a native of Okemos, Mich., received the award for her high standards of scholarship and her contri­butions to the College’s spirit of Christian leadership, according to the release. 
“She is a young woman who does not seek power or advan­tage for herself, but uses her endless energy to recognize and elevate others by nominat­ing people for awards, finding innovative ways to express her appreciation and being driven by the desire to empower oth­ers,” Mooney said. 
Glaub is the founder of Love Your Body Week at Saint Mary’s. She also served on numerous school boards, including Student Government Association, Residence Life, Dance Marathon, the Belles Against Violence Office and Student Activities Board. 
Glaub has also given back to her community through her participation in the Office for Civic and Social Engagement’s Rebuilding Together and College Academy of Tutoring programs. 
“She shows us of what we are capable when we integrate heart and mind, and when we approach others and the world guided by the values of respect, compassion and service,” Mooney said. 
While she said she was hon­ored to receive the award, Glaub recognized the other members of the College com­munity as her inspiration to give back to the school. 
“My goal at Saint Mary’s was to make a difference. I hope next year I can make this hap­pen,” Glaub said. “I … want to leave Saint Mary’s knowing that the people I came in con­tact with smile when they hear my name.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Seniors earn prestigious fellowships,scholarships 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Fourteen members of the Class of 2011 received national scholarships and fel­lowships as they prepare for their next steps after gradua­tion. 
Roberta Jordan, assistant director of National Fellowships for the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE), said this year’s class stands out com­pared to past years. 
In particular, students were successful in obtaining Fulbright scholarships, which provide funding for research and teaching abroad. The University’s Fulbright success rate of 25 to 30 percent is slightly above the national average. 
“We’re very pleased with the number of Fulbright suc­cesses, especially in light of the increased number of applicants nationwide,” she said. 
Graduate students Andrew Mrugala and Ann Weber were awarded Fulbright Research and Study Grants. The grant provides a year of funding for study and research abroad. 
Seniors Cherrica Li, Jaime Cordes, John Greil, Amanda Johnson and Virginia Varraveto were awarded Fulbright English Teaching Assistantships, which offers funds for a year of teaching English abroad. 
Students hoping for a Fulbright award began the application process months before the national deadline because these grants require University nomination or endorsement, Jordan said. 
“Our hope for each appli­cant is that they find value in the process, especially in light of the substantial time commitment for some of these,” she said. “The dis­cernment that is required can be an excellent exercise in taking a look back at what one has accomplished, con­necting the dots of academic and extracurricular activi­ties, and thinking and dream­ing about what one hopes to do in the future.” 
Students also received other awards that provide funding for post -graduate work. 
Graduate student Kristen Drahos and seniors Rosary Abot and Kayla Durcholz received Lilly Graduate Fellowships. The Lilly Graduate Fellowship pro ­vides a stipend for three years as well as summer con­ferences and mentorship. 
Graduate students Claire Brown, Jake Lussier, and Kevin Mickey were awarded National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships, which grant an annual stipend and a cost-of­education allowance for up to three years. 
Senior Claire Reising also received a French Government Teaching Assistantship, which provides a stipend for teaching abroad. 
Jordan said award recipi­ents receive not only finan­cial benefit for their academ­ic endeavors but also a valu­able network of peers. 
“Recipients are members of a cohort, a network of other similarly focused scholars,” she said. “Quite often these foundations have people who can help recipients identify the best post -graduate opportunities and work with them for admission.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

Hoffman receives Outstanding Senior Award 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s senior Emma Hoffman recently received the Outstanding Senior Award for her involvement in Campus Ministry, her studies abroad and her work in the Student Government Association (SGA). 
“As the valedictorian rep­resents the mind, and the Lumen Christi Award recipi­ent represents the soul, the Outstanding Senior embodies the heart of Saint Mary’s,” a press release stated. 
According to the release, the Saint Mary ’s College Alumnae Association Board 
of Directors presents the award to a student who has upheld and demonstrated the values and spirit of Saint Mary’s, and who is dedicated to her faith, academics, leadership positions and to the College itself. 
Hoffman said in an email interview she was stunned and excited to receive the honor of Outstanding Senior. 
“I’m very honored to receive the Outstanding Senior Award from the Alumnae Association, ” Hoffman said. “I am grateful for my Saint Mary’s educa­tion because I gained the confidence to use my educa­tion, discovered my passion for environmental health and made friends that will stay with me the rest of my life.” 
Hoffman was elected class president during her fresh­man year and served on the Class Board during her soph­omore year. She was Mission Commissioner of SGA as a junior and student represen­tative to the Board of Trustees as a senior. 
As a biology major, Hoffman conducted her senior research project on Little Corn Island in Nicaragua. During the project, she interacted with locals as she tested a water purification system, the release stated. 
Through her experience at Saint Mary’s, Hoffman said she has gained confidence in her opinions. 
“As my senior year comes to an end, I do not have to worry that I will be lost in a crowd. My leadership abili­ties will set me apart, ” Hoffman said. “My path is not certain, but the tools and friends I have gained at service to the biology field Saint Mary’s will always hold by returning to Little Corn me in good stead.” Island. She also plans to 


After commencement, apply to graduate school to Hoffman will continue her continue her studies in envi­ronmental health or apply for the Peace Corps. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 16 Friday, May 20, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Not ‘The End’ 
I’ve tended to associate the reality of this whole graduation thing with a series of “lasts:” the last home football game, the last final exam, the last Finny’s (is there ever really a “last” Finny’s?) and so on. For me, each of these lasts came and went, and reali­ty still hadn’t set in. I wasn’t starting to say goodbyes, I wasn’t thinking about moving out and I wasn’t breaking down 

Matthew Gamber 
every time some­one played 

Editor-in-Chief 
Vitamin C’s 

Emeritus 
“Graduation.” (Just to clarify, Vitamin C still hasn’t gotten me yet, and I’m not sure it will.) 
But on Monday, when I signed a lease to move into an apartment in Chicago July 1, something changed. This wasn’t a last, but a first in a long line of impor­tant real-world, grown-up decisions — and it was this “first” that alerted me to how quickly reality is approaching. 
For so long, I could only see our grad­uation as The End — of DeBartolo, 222, The Observer, Corby’s, American Studies and Cubs trips. Graduation represented the evil villain conspiring to separate us from our closest friends and the place we’ve called home for four years. 
When I signed that lease, though, I began to understand that graduation is, as corny as it sounds, also a beginning. Life after Notre Dame had always seemed so distant, so uncertain, and in some ways it still does. But as it gets closer, I’m realizing the reality that awaits us isn’t so bad either. 
As I look out at my group of friends, I see more than the people with whom I’ve shared countless hilarious nights and a handful of rough mornings. I see incredibly talented 22-year-olds who are ready to change the world (seriously) as doctors, lawyers, teachers, public offi­cials, pilots, journalists and business­people. The caliber of people with whom I’ve shared this unparalleled four-year adventure is unbelievable, and that’s what makes it hard to leave this place. But it’s also why I can: because I know we are ready. 
To view graduation as The End was absolutely terrifying, but as a beginning, how can we not view it as a thrilling chance to pursue opportunities in new cities and different fields? The real fun is about to begin as we figure out what and who we want to be when we grow up. (And if the events of Senior Week are any indication, we are far from being “grown up.”) Notre Dame and the people who helped me get here — espe­cially my parents, Mark and Mary Jo — have helped me take some of those steps, and for that I feel unbelievably blessed. I’ve learned how special this place is, and I know I’ll take that with me wherever I go. 
It starts in Chicago, but I hope that’s just the beginning. 
Matt Gamber is graduating with a degree in Finance and American Studies. He would like to thank The Observer for giving him the opportunity to travel across the country over the past four years — it’s the skill from college he’ll use most in his future career. He would also like to thank the talented and dedicated staff that made his time at the paper the most rewarding aspect of his time at Notre Dame. 
There, he said it. Matt can be reached at mgamber@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Walking away 
On Sunday I will walk with the Class of 2011 and become a Notre Dame graduate. 
The use of the verb “to walk” in associa­tion with graduation ceremonies seems especially appropriate for four years of college. 
I fell in love with Notre Dame when I first walked around campus as a high school student. 
Freshman year, I was constantly in awe of campus’ beauty. As I learned the fastest paths 


Laura McCrystal 
from Pasquerilla East Hall to every-
News Editor
where else on cam-
Emeritus

pus, I remember hoping I wouldn’t take the beauty of Notre Dame for granted by the time I walked across campus as a senior. 
I met a classmate who became a sister to me during a walk to breakfast on the first day of Frosh-O. I met roommates who I walked everywhere with — to North Dining Hall, the library and LaFortune, but also along the edge of the Grand Canyon and up and down the beach in Hilton Head. 
I rushed around campus trying not to spill my coffee and still make it to class on time. Sometimes I succeeded. 
I learned that after spending hours in the basement of South Dining Hall produc­ing The Observer, there was no guessing what the weather would be when I left to walk home in the middle of the night. 
I enjoyed studying in LaFortune because when I needed a break I could walk around and talk to people I knew. 
While friends wanted to avoid the dining hall at its most crowded times, I loved walking around, getting my food and try­ing to keep my tray balanced amidst hun­dreds of hungry students. 
Then there was the time I started to walk into the boys’ bathroom in DeBartolo at class change time. The person who made the location the men’s and ladies’ rooms opposite on the first floor from the second and third floors has an excellent sense of humor. 
I spent a semester in Angers, France walking down narrow streets to class and up and down the spiral staircase in my host family’s home. I walked around European cities until my feet ached. 
I walked between tailgates on football Saturdays. I stormed the field after Notre Dame beat Utah and I lingered there with my friends for as long as possible before walking out of the stadium through the tunnel. 
But before saying goodbye to Notre Dame football as a student, I walked around New York City and into Yankee Stadium. A week after that, I skipped and jumped out of the Coliseum singing the fight song after a win against USC. 
This spring, as I realized my days as a college student were slipping away, I did not want to be that senior who took Notre Dame for granted. So I began to take the scenic route to class and made a point of visiting the grotto each day. I even got somewhat strange glances from passersby as I walked around campus alone with a smile on my face. They must have been underclassmen. 
In the years to come, I’ll join the throngs of alumni who descend upon campus on football weekends and show their children the places where they used to sleep, eat, study and play. 
But it’s not just the beauty of campus itself that makes it home. One Sunday in August 2007, I sat in the JACC with my parents. My father, who had played devil’s advocate throughout my college search process, turned to me and said, “You’re right, Laura. You belong here.” Later that afternoon, my parents said goodbye to me in the middle of South Quad and walked away. 
This Sunday, I will walk onto campus as a student and leave as a graduate. I do not know where I will walk next. But I will never forget the places I walked in the past four years. I will never forget the things I thought about and the people I talked to along the way. 
It is time to walk away, but I will never stop belonging here. 
Laura McCrystal is graduating with a degree in American Studies, French and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She would like to thank her parents for agreeing that Notre Dame was the right place for her. And many thanks to the roommates, friends, Observer staffers and professors who made the last four years unforgettable. Laura can be reached at lmccryst@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Notre Dame in 555 words or less 
Welcome to the land of snow excess. McGlinn Hall, home of the Shamrocks and the “hut dance.” Disneyland as a pregame for beating USC. Trying and failing to tri­fecta Finny’s. Night of Mayhem on cam­pus. Walking home from Domerfest with trumpet play­ers. 
Going to Domerfest as a jun­ior for free Dip-n-Dots. The bench breaking at a hock­ey game. Remember that Jordan Gamble website Juicy Campus? Yeah, Scene Editor me neither. Emeritus Buzzin’. The grotto in November 2007 and the best Christmas formal ever. Nicaragua 2010. ND-NOLA Team Silver Dragon. 

Dear diary, thank you God. Vamps and Vino on Thursday nights in McG 4A. Women’s basketball eating those Huskies for breakfast. Dance parties in McGlinn. 
Listening to “Verme,” “Volver,” “Mi Nina Bonita” and “Total Eclipse of the Heart” before and after climbing a volcano. Deep conversations in the DH. Oversharing. Appalachia 2008 — it’s time to ball out. My name is Boo. Zaaaaa. Club H and “Topographies.” Hot and dangerous. Do you like cheese? My favorite’s gouda! 
Drummers’ circle. Blue Moon — half-drank but not forgotten. Having a Latina roommate. 
Crank me up. Snowpocalypse 2011. Riding the elevator with Father Hesburgh, who apparently has never heard of Gummi Works. When I see an open high­way, it’s like … well, it can’t be printed in The Observer. 
Being Ross’s aid to Ross-Ade Stadium. You just look like you can move. The Shirt 2009: Rise and strike, bend and snap, same thing, right? 
A sea of flesh. Observer Observer Observer Observer. Duncan Mass and “Canticle of the Turning.” It’s hard to dance with the devil on your back. 
RIP Lula’s. RIP Keenan Revue. RIP Hesburgh Challenge. RIP quarter dogs. RIP McGlinn togas. RIP fun pep rallies (wait, did those ever exist?) 
I would say “RIP Notre Dame” but I’ll be vicariously living through every other stu­dent here until the day I die. Here’s to hoping I, too, can afford football tickets and a swanky condo on Edison that I’ll only use six or seven weekends per year. 
Beautiful landscaping, beautiful bath­rooms, beautiful dorms, beautiful book­store — oh, so that’s where our tuition goes. 
Worst record ever in football and I would never trade it for anything. Seriously, how can you complain about running to Stonehenge after UCLA, the Michigan downpour in 2008, the last-minute wins of 2009 and the epic epicness that was Notre Dame-Utah last fall? You can’t really, unless you are a Notre Dame hipster too cool for unabashed happiness. 
Rushing the field after the Utah game and following the “Rage” mattress-pad­banner out through the tunnel was proba­bly one of the happiest moments in my life. Except for opening my Notre Dame acceptance letter Dec. 17, 2006 — and promptly laying down on my kitchen floor and screaming. Knowing that feeling bet­ter is just a grotto visit away. 
Duck Island. Alexandra, you are amaz­ing and I’m gonna miss not being across the street from you next year. Tour guide inside knowledge: Did you know that Mary on the Dome weighs a whole bunch ton and is taller than two Luke Zellers? 
Ranting about Catholic Social Teaching over Papa Smurfs #onlyatnotredame. The jig, the drum cadences, the memories, the “Triangle Room” at DeBart, the Spanglish, the Nicaragua ukulele, the never-ending supply of Diet Coke in the basement of South, the food at SDH, the joy, the sad­ness, the friendships, the weather. 
Love. Thee. Notre. Dame. 
Jordan Gamble is graduating with a degree in American Studies and a minor in both Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and Catholic Social Teaching. She has an internship at The New York Times this summer and might actually graduate to real work by September, but it’s possible she’ll just drop everything and write trashy teen romance novels for a living. She’d like to thank her parents for work­ing really darn hard to get her to Notre Dame in the first place. Jordan can be reached at Jordan.r.gamble@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Stay centered by accepting whatever you are doing. This is the ultimate.” 
ZhuangziChinese philosopher 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“One must not lose desires. They are mighty stimulants to creativeness, to love and to long life.” 
Alexander A. BogomoletzRussian physiologist and pathologist 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Friday, May 20, 2011 page 17 
The graduation speech I never got to give 
I haven’t told anyone this since Frosh-O, but I was salutatorian of my high school class. There were two valedictorians and then there was me, representing all those kids smart enough to get A’s but too lazy to take honors physics. 
I bring this up because the princi­ple at my high school thought three faux-inspira­tional speeches written by high school students would be too Laura Myers much for our com-Assistant Managing mencement Editor Emeritus 

ceremony’s audience to bear. So he told me I wouldn’t be giving a speech. 
Four years later, with the wound still fresh, I have found a new platform hidden in a closet in the basement of South Dining Hall. I now present to you “The High School Graduation Speech I Never Got to Give (For Real, It’s About Mermaids).” 
“There was once a young girl who came home from swim practice very sore from the team’s post-swim calisthenics. She explained to her mother that workouts in the water were easy, but out of the water they were too hard. Her mom told her, ‘I guess when you grow up you’ll have to be a mermaid.’ So the girl had a new goal. 
“Okay, I’m going to admit it. That girl was me. And since last summer, I’ve come to the realization that I can’t grow up to be a mermaid.” 
Pause for laughter. 

My speech was going to go on to urge students to take the challenge of getting out of the water, which was easy and safe, for the difficulties of dry land. The water being a metaphor for high school and the dry land being a metaphor for … life? Who knows. 
It probably would have included a wise saying from Mr. Feeney, Harry Potter or a Spill Canvas song. Of course, if I were writ­ing it as a college senior, more intellectual and sophisticated, etc., I would definitely quote John Wooden, St. Augustine or Barney Stinson. 
Clearly, this speech would have been hilarious, not to mention moving and per­fect at explaining just how everyone feels at graduation. I was so certain I could do that then, but I don’t have a clue how to pull it off now. 
Everything this week has been the last of something, and the conversations have ranged from the obligatory (“I can’t believe we made it”) to the depressing (“Now 
To my home: Class of 2011 
Five years ago, I never thought I’d Most of all, I’d like to just thank the be here. When I started looking at Class of 2011 — especially my friends schools, Notre Dame was barely on my — for sharing these experiences with radar. It was only after persistent sug-me. I can’t imagine a better group of gestions from a friend’s grandmother people to spend the past four years that I even with. Even those of you that I don’t decided to come 

know personally, we have a wealth of out to my first 
common highs and lows we’ve gone football game. 
through. My parents 
Not all of the memories are good, and I drove up 
necessarily. We didn’t win a football and down the 
national championship (quite the east coast and 
opposite, in fact) and the Indiana even flew 
State Excise Police certainly won’t be across the 
getting Christmas cards from any country look-Sam Werner members of our class. All that mat­ing at col-ters, though, is that we shared these 
Assistant Managing
leges. I experiences. This week has brought 
Editor Emeritus 
saw such a flurry of emotions that it’s diffi­every-cult to characterize in one 600-word thing from small schools to state uni-column. Like the rest of our time here, versities. it’s been both imperfect (the Cubs 
The one school I never officially vis-game getting rained out) and ited? The University of Notre Dame. In absolutely perfect at the same time (a fact, my parents never even saw the fantastic day in Chicago with my clos­campus until the day they dropped me est friends). off. It seems odd to think that a place As much as I don’t want to move on that seemed so foreign four years ago from Notre Dame, I know it’s time. couldn’t feel anymore like home. More importantly, I know Notre Dame 
Every time I set foot on campus, it will always be there when I want it. It will always be as coming home. When will be here for football games I leave wherever I’m living to come to reunions when I come back, and it will a football game, I won’t be going also be there with me in the memories away. I’ll be coming back. The times and relationships I’ve built here. I’ve had here have made this place a Thank you, Notre Dame, and thank part of my personality more than I you Class of 2011. It’s been real. could have ever imagined. 
As excited as I am to get my diploma Sam Werner will gradiate with a Sunday, I’ve already gotten the most degree in American Studies and a valuable thing I’m going to take from minor in Journalism, Ethics and these four years. The friends and rela-Democracy. He’ll be working for the tionships I’ve made here will undoubt-summer at the Pittsburgh Post­edly stay with me forever. Gazette, where he’ll have to learn how 
When I look back on my college to work with actual deadlines. He’d experience 20 years down the road, like to thank his parents, his younger am I going to remember the time I sister and all of his friends. He is not stayed up all night studying or writing looking forward to the fall when, for a paper? Maybe. All those nights seem the first time since October 2006, he’ll to blend together. I know I’m going to have to watch a Notre Dame home remember, though, the time I got up game on TV. Sam can be reached at at 4 a.m. to go to the Kentucky Derby. swerner@nd.edu I’m going to remember tailgating with The views expressed in this column friends and going on football road-are those of the author and not trips. necessarily those of The Observer. 
we’re going to get old”) to the absurd (“I’m going to miss singing along to the Spice Girls at the Backer”) — that last one was me. 
As John Wooden said, on the sheet of the quote-a-day-calendar I tore off the day I wrote this, “It’s not so important who starts the game, but who finishes it.” Not one person graduating this weekend is the same as the one who started here four years ago. When I got to Notre Dame, I’d never seen an episode of The Office. I couldn’t even pretend to know about eco­nomics. I cared that I was salutatorian of my high school class. 
Now, among other things, I pretend to know about economics all the time. I baked a cake for Jim and Pam’s wedding. I don’t care about grades, but about learning. 
We’ve all learned a lot in our four years here, about poetry and math and maybe the technical aspects of our future careers. About friendship and responsibility and the best way to maneuver around Corby’s when it’s packed. About losing and about winning, and about standing with your classmates in either outcome. 
Now, like the girl who couldn’t stay a mermaid, we have to leave those conversa­tions and those experiences for a bigger, more difficult world. 
A friend pointed out to me the other day that it doesn’t matter that we’re leaving. 
We’ll always have our Notre Dame educa­tion and everything that comes with it, from logical thinking to alumni connec­tions. He told me we’ll always be the peo­ple Notre Dame made us. Four years ago, I was most upset because I wouldn’t get to deliver the perfect sign off: “So congratula­tions, Wadsworth High School Class of 2007. Make a splash.” Which, of course, makes no sense considering I just told them to get out of the water. But back in 2007 I thought I was really clever. 
I guess one thing hasn’t changed. 
So congratulations, Notre Dame Class of 2011. Make — no, I can’t say it. There’s no way this ending’s going to be that easy. 
Coming soon to a couch near you(r living room), Laura Myers is graduating with a degree in economics and no ideas on how to improve on the $11.09 in her checking account. She made some stockings once. She wants to thank Dad for the Sports Illustrateds and Mom for teaching her how to play Scrabble way before it got cool (and both for a million other things). She would also like to thank her Downy Wrinkle Release Spray for always having her back, and Deb for being Deb. Laura can be reached at lmyers2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Thanks for the memories, Notre Dame 
The University recently asked me if I ber that I can’t leave my laptop and learned something in the past four wallet on a table and know it won’t be years. stolen. 
Part of the long list of pre-graduation Soon, I will have to pack up my room, tasks for seniors included a short sur-and the best-outfitted kitchen in any vey about the aca-college house (did we ever get that gar­demic experience 

lic mincer?). My mom keeps telling me here at Notre 
to get a big trash bag to start throwing Dame. I rolled my 
away the things I don’t need. I can’t eyes at the point-
bring myself to do it because I fear an lessness of trying 
empty room will make it too real. to sum up fours 
I don’t want to say goodbye to the best years of at an aca­
friends that have been my family for demic institution 
these four years. in five or so mul-
When I can’t put off bringing the trash tiple-choice Madeline Buckley bags up to my room any longer, I’ll questions. I indi-think about the 10-hour drive to North cated that, yes, I Managing Carolina, closing down Finny’s and then did learn some-Editor Emeritus watching the Royal Wedding (oh wait, I thing. fell asleep) and that first dorm party in 
After four Stanford that we all awkwardly attend-years and $200,000, I sure hope so. I ed together. I’ll think of those, and other learned that a coupon for a free bagel is memories that make me smile. We literally and figuratively priceless if it learned to lean on each other and pick allows me to sit in Einstein’s for hours each other up when necessary. We also talking to my friends. simultaneously learned to be independ-
I learned that leaving Finny’s for 10 ent and self-reliant. We navigated col-minutes to use the bathroom at C.J.’s or lege together, and conquered it. O’Sullivan’s will save about 40 minutes In the sadness and nostalgia of this in a line. coming weekend, I’ll have to remember 
I learned to fix finicky computers at 3 that it’s not really goodbye. The term 
a.m. and to love my beautifully dysfunc-commencement is interesting because tional Observer family. I never quite no one seems to think of graduation as learned how to explain to skeptical peo-a beginning. ple what my major in American Studies But I think the most important lesson is, except that it is in fact the best major I am taking from college is that I can do at Notre Dame. this. It was the best four years of my 
I learned that life can be rough at life, but I have taken Notre Dame for times, but I also learned that chocolate everything it is worth, and now I am from the Huddle and good friends can ready to move forward. make almost anything better. I’m fairly So in case the graduation survey certain I went to more classes than I results aren’t completely sufficient, I skipped (just kidding, Mom) and those learned everything. classes fundamentally changed the way I view the world. I am more analytical Madeline Buckley is graduating with and open-minded, thanks to some of the a degree in American Studies and amazing professors I have been lucky Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She enough to experience. would like to thank her parents for all 
This place made its indelible mark on their love and support, and the gift of a me, mostly because of the people. Notre college education. She can be reached Dame students are truly extraordinary. at mbuckley@nd.edu I am constantly humbled by the bril-The views expressed in this column liance of my friends, and when I leave are those of the author and not for the real world, I’ll have to remem-necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 18 Friday, May 20, 2011 
Affirm it, 
visualize it, 
believe it 
It’s 1:30 a.m. in the wee-hours of Friday morning, the last day of my last finals week, and I’m settling in for, yes, my last all-nighter. 
On the signature “LaFun Run” return trip to Riley Hall from picking up my last late night Venti half-sweetened 
iced coffee from Starbucks, I had a realization that I haven’t experi­enced in recent memory, a realiza­tion which, perhaps I simply hadn’t had the time to slow down to feel, understand or really reflect upon. 
The realization, that despite all my friends being out at Fever, Finnigan’s/Finnies/Finny’s, Oyster Bar or another questionable local establishment, despite a week packed full of exams and anticipa­tion for the future and despite the impending 10 a.m. deadline for my last undergraduate Industrial Design presentation looming ever closer, I was, well, content. 

Dan Jacobs 
Photo Editor Emeritus 

I might not know what my next step in life is, or what that uncertainty means for the next week, month, year or decade, but somehow, that’s OK. 
I liked to pretend Notre Dame is a different place for me. That growing up here in South Bend as a townie, being immersed in the Notre Dame culture since birth (including blue and gold colored braces) makes Our Lady’s University mean so much more to me than everyone else here. 
However, the recent news that my family would be leav­ing Notre Dame alongside me was a somewhat sobering moment. That my relationship to Notre Dame before these four years didn’t make me any different than anyone else here. 
I had assumed, somewhat naively, that leaving Notre Dame wouldn’t really be leaving, that I would always be back, that home would always be the same golden place it always had been. But now, suddenly, it had seemed, my only connection was the blue-stoned, gold finished mono­gram Notre Dame on my right ring finger. 
On my computer monitor at home, I have a fortune cook­ie paper taped to it that reads, “Affirm it, visualize it, believe it and it will actualize itself.” 
Maybe this spoke to me originally as a design major in the most literal sense. But many late nights later, I see it more deeply. Your experience here is very much what you make of it. My dorm. My friends. The Observer. 
Everything you do here builds your relationship with this place further, which is why working through tonight is OK. 
When else will I get to cram into a computer lab with 20 comrades, each with the common desire to impress none other than Kenneth Cole, or maybe more importantly just the desire to graduate with something to show for it? Late nights at The Observer, partying with friends, football tail­gates — the list goes on. 
Each and every moment here has made this place what it is to me today. And no matter where I am, where my fami­ly is, where my friends are, that will never change. 
So now, instead of saying goodbye, I say thank you. 
Thank you to my friends, new and old, who have always stayed by my side. Thank you to my family for putting up with me and my quirks for 22 years. Thank you to every­one at The Observer, for the times, both good and fantas­tic. 
To my second families and second homes at O’Neill and Riley Hall. To my professors, my co-workers, my girlfriend. To everyone who has helped to support me, mold me and make me who I am today, for this I will forever be grateful. 
In watching friends go through the best of times and the worst of times, I’ve seen firsthand what Notre Dame is really all about. 
Notre Dame will forever be my home, and that home is more than just a place, it is each and every person who shares a love for what this University is and the people it stands for. 
For those of you lucky enough to have one, two or even three more years here: Love this place, and it will love you; get out there, and don’t waste a minute of your four years here, they’ll be some of your best. 
Good luck, Class of 2011 and Love thee Notre Dame. 
Dan Jacobs is graduating with a Bachelors of Fine Arts in Industrial Design and plans to pursue a career in design in the Chicago area. Dan wants to thank his friends and family for making this the best four years of his life and looks forward to crashing on many, many couches in the years to come. Dan can be reached at djacobs1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Leaving the familiar to brave the unknown 
In a few short weeks, I will be trading God Quad for Times Square, the Golden Dome for the Empire State Building. A cubicle in the 48­floor Condé Nast building will replace my desk at The Observer in the basement of South Dining Hall. 
This year, my friends and I live within walking distance of each other. Next year, we will each be far flung, from New York and Boston and Chicago, to Atlanta, Dallas, even the Cayman Islands. 
In short: I’m scared. I know it’s natural to be, not only because I will be leaving my comfortable, Blair Chemidlin predictable life, but 

Graphics Editor
because for the first 
Emeritus
time in my life I don’t really know what comes next. 
While all these changes are intimidating, I also know that, deep down, I am ready to embrace the unexpected and the unknown. 
My time at Notre Dame has prepared me well for the new reality of the working world and I know the relationships I’ve made here will sur­vive the challenge of distance. Next year, I will miss the freedom of a student’s life — the long pauses in a loose college schedule, the after­noon naps and of course Thursday nights at Feve. 
I will miss the exquisite and comforting sight of Notre Dame’s leafy quads. On the other hand, I look forward to new freedoms and new views. 
I hope to take all that I’ve learned here, from professors, from friends, from classmates, and use it all. As we graduate and go out into the world, let’s strive to do well, but also to do good. As Notre Dame graduates we carry a responsibility to help others less fortunate. 
Let’s work hard, but let’s also remember we only have one life. Let’s laugh — at ourselves, especially, and with each other, but never at someone else’s expense. Let’s remember to be kind to all we meet because it’s impossible to know everyone’s hardships. Let’s make new friends, but let’s also stay in touch. 
I would like to use this remaining space to thank the people who have always helped me get from one day to the next. 
I thank my family: my dad, who is a constant source of inspiration for me, my mom, who has more love in her heart than she knows what to do with, and my brothers Conor, Grant and Reid, who taught me how to be tough and keep up with the boys. 
Amy, Eliza, Sofia, Cassie, Jordan, Kaitlyn and Grace: you have become my sisters. I cannot wait to visit each of you next year, no matter the airfare! 
To my boyfriend, Billy: thank you for helping make my senior year the very best. I love you. 
And, finally, to my friends at The Observer: while my first visit to Disneyland during our Thanksgiving trip did have its perks (single rid­ers jump the line!) I had so much more fun when you all joined me the next day. It takes a close-knit group of editors to carry on fake Editorial Board meetings weeks after our terms have ended. 
To my professors: thank you for opening my mind in all sorts of ways and equipping me not only with facts and information but with some­thing far greater — true knowledge. 
To all of my family, friends, classmates and Notre Dame faculty and staff, thank you. Together, you have made the past four years of my life amazing and each moment unforget­table. I am forever indebted. 
Blair Chemidlin is graduating with a degree in English and Sociology. After graduation, she will be working at Brides Magazine in New York City. She will be spending many long hours on buses, commuting from her home in New Jersey. Blair could have written a book about her time at Notre Dame and why she is so grateful to everyone in her life, but thankfully, managed to create a SparkNotes version for The Observer. She can be reached at bchemidl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 19
Friday, May 20, 2011 

EXCERPTS FROM PAST ISSUES 
Four Years in Review 
Obama speaking 
I am Roman-Catholic, pro-life and middle-upper class citizen with strong leanings toward the Republican Party. Oh, and one more thing: I am ecstatic that the President of the United States is coming to speak at my graduation Commencement. Within hours of the big announcement on Friday, I was receiving infuriating e-mails from my fellow pro-lifers calling for the immediate repeal of President Obama’s invitation to Notre Dame. “We must stand against evil,” said one message. “He supports gay marriage, which is an affront to the family,” read another. “He should not be given this opportunity to confuse our youth.” One message went so far as to compare Obama with history’s most hated villain. The email read: “The German peo­ple supported Hitler because he was dynamic and promised jobs and food. There is more to a man than his charisma.” There is also more to a man than his views on the single issue of abortion. Such rash and radical comments not only fail to promote the end of abortion, they undermine the entire pro-life movement. 
In an emergency press release issued by the Pro-Life Action League, National Director and Notre Dame alumnus Joe Scheidler made the following statements: “Over the first two months of his administration, Barack Obama has established himself as the most pro-abortion president in U.S. history. My alma mater should not be providing a platform for this president. Father Jenkins cannot expect pro-life Catholics to stand back and allow the most pro-abortion pres­ident in U.S. history to make a mockery of Notre Dame’s Catholic identity.” As a pro-lifer myself, I understand where Scheidler is com­ing from; I, too, am concerned for the pro-life movement under the Obama administration. I simply cannot agree, however, with the idea that Notre Dame, one of the finest academic institutions in the nation, should deny the President of the United States a platform to speak solely because of his views on abortion. Obama is not coming to Notre Dame to speak about abortion, nor is his speech supposed to play a pivotal part in the formation of our Catholic identity. 
It is our responsibility, not our Commencement speaker’s, to contin­ue to cultivate our Catholic identity and apply it beyond graduation. The role of a Commencement speaker is to welcome college gradu­ates into the real world, arm them with knowledge of complex and evolving issues, and inspire them to be passionate and influential citi­zens of a global community. I simply cannot think of anyone more qualified to do these things than the leader of the free world, President Barack Obama. 
Thus, to my fellow pro-lifers: let us battle the president on each and every issue pertinent to life, but let us not undermine our intelli­gence and our patriotism by forsaking other important issues in the reckless pursuit of one. The world will not stop turning for the abor­tion issue to be resolved. We as Catholics are therefore called to be dynamic citizens who take a multi-dimensional approach to making our world a better place; this means listening and learning from influential world leaders such as Barack Obama. To disinvite the President of the United States based on a single issue, even one as important as abortion, would be a disgrace both to our Catholic iden­tity and to this great Catholic University. 
Mark Weber 
senior off campus Mar. 21, 2009 

A eulogy to 4 Loko 
It is a dark time, Notre Dame, for our beloved caffeinated malt bev­erage, 4 Loko, has all but perished. Recently, Phusion Projects LLC of Chicago, the manufacturer of the sweet nectar, has announced its intention to remove the caffeine from the product, thus reducing it to a pitiful concoction void of all its former splendors. Live in our memo­ries, dear divine, for that is to where you have been reduced. Shortly, none of us will ever again revel in this ingenious combination of caf­feine and alcohol. None of us will ever again experience the pleas­ures of rambunctious intoxication that was once only within the reach of rich frat boys and their Colombian Bam-Bam. 
Dark times, indeed! The simple joy of a beverage that delivered inexpressibly forgettable nights shall die. Nay! Not because consum­ing the beverage resulted in disappointing excursions, but for the lit­eral blackout it delivered upon exposure — this eulogist admits some of his finest experiences while under the direction of this delectably divine substance. So young in its life, so rapturous in its cause, those within the 18 to 25-year-old age bracket and those earning under $30,000/year shall surely feel this atrocity most. A weekly tradition it was, feeling like Pablo Escobar, buying the “cocaine in a can” and indulging in its many fruits. 
For shame to all those responsible for this heinous crime of depri­vation! We return to the hallowed halls of 40s at four. We return to the art of a simple shower. We return to our earlier world. But I dare say this: at what cost, dear readers, at what cost? There will likely be a new beverage. There are always the traditional standbys. But it wont be the same. 
In our hearts forever, love thee 4 Loko. 
Sam Mitchell 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Dec. 8, 2010 


The hook-up culture 
Dear six guys I’ve hooked up with this semester, 
Thank you for the hook-up. It was ... decent. From my experience, it was a typical freshman year hook­up. 
Some of you shamelessly lead me on, while with others it just sort of happened. Obviously, I wanted it too because I definitely didn’t stop you. In fact I love to kiss boys, my roommates and I refer to it as “my hobby.” 
Yes, the hook-up itself was fine, but afterwards we’ve run into a problem. The problem is the dining hall, at parties, the quad and in class. It’s the way that you look at me, with that awkward stare that makes me want to scream “Yes we did hookup once and no we haven’t talked since then!” Other times we see each other and you quickly dart your eyes to avoid eye contact or suddenly become enthralled in conversation with the nearest object. To be fair, I think I may have gotten a “hey” from one or two of you before (it’s been a while though, so forgive me if my memory isn’t perfect). 
What about my number, did you ask for it just as a matter of course? Is it your way of saying,”Thanks for the hook-up, can I have your number so that I can delay your realization that we are never going to speak again?” Well it worked, I gave every one of you my number and haven’t heard from most of you since. How many of you would actually call me if you needed someone to go grab lunch with? Or if you needed help studying for a class that we both have? How many of you haven’t deleted it, or are just now realizing that I must be that mysterious “Melissa” entry in your contact list? 
Don’t blame me for not calling you, a broken phone can attest to the fact that I’ve lost most of your numbers. I doubt you would answer even if I could call you. I’m a good person and an even better friend. But obviously, since we hooked-up, it would be too much to ask that we ever consider friendship as an option. Ignoring each other, apparently, is the only choice that we have. 
Of course, I don’t render myself blameless. Our hook-up was the most convenient form of instant gratification that we could find. I realize that and I admit to being just as guilty as you are. But next time I smile at you on the quad, or say hi to you in class, can you pretend that you haven’t gone both deaf and blind since that night that we met at that party? 
Although I doubt that you are willing to do that, I am sure of one thing: You six guys are where I draw the line. This weekend, and all weekends until I graduate, I refuse to add to this list. I won’t hook-up with any more random boys. Not because the act itself wasn’t enjoyable, but because this campus isn’t that big and I can’t afford to have any more boys refusing to look me in the eye when I walk down South Quad. At Notre Dame, I am looking to make friends (not boyfriends, fiancés, or husbands) and hook-ups obviously lead to anything but friendship. I can find a new hobby, hopefully something that real­ly does make me happy, but I will not hook-up. I’ll see you at the dining hall. 
Sincerely, Melissa. 
P.S. — Don’t worry about our kiss under the arch 
— unless we move to Utah, it’s unlikely that all six of you will find yourselves married to me. 
Melissa Buddie 
freshman Lyons Hall Nov. 13, 2008 

Time to act on GLBT issues 
As a recent alumnus and member of the 2006-07 Student Senate, it is disheartening to witness the actions — or, rather, inaction on the part of this administration — taking place on Our Lady’s cam­pus. 
The Student Senate passed a resolution in March, 2007 requesting the University add “sexual orienta­tion” to its non-discrimination clause. While I do not personally identify as GLBTQ, I remember strongly supporting the Social Concerns committee chair dur­ing Senate proceedings. I was shocked such wording did not already exist. And I remember being a part of the 25-1-1 majority that voted to pass the resolution. 
This publication, The Observer, reported at the time that both the Student Senate and Faculty Senate had passed similar language in 1998. Two Holy Cross schools, King’s College in Pennsylvania and Holy Cross College in Indiana, already included the lan­guage at the time. I recall students on campus having civilized and intelligent debate regarding the issue. Yet, three years later, we have not progressed. Students, faculty, and alumni continue to support measures to be more inclusive with regard to our GLBTQ brothers and sisters, but nothing is done. It is not news that the administration can be selectively deaf regarding student issues, but 12 years of repeti­tive voices and increasing volume must have an effect. 
Notre Dame, it is time to act. Alumni, students and faculty have done all they can. Now, it is up to this administration to stop dismissing the issue and step up to the plate. Take bold steps to live your “Spirit of Inclusion” in word and deed. Include “sexual orienta­tion” in the University’s non-discrimination clause. Allow the Student Union Board to recognize groups of gay students on campus as legitimate student groups. And if you won’t, you at least owe 12 years of the Notre Dame community an explanation of your reasoning. Refusing to address the issue — hoping that ignoring it will make it go away — will not cut it any longer. 
Chris Beesley 
alumnus Class of 2008 Jan. 29, 2010 


Welcome to the Family, Coach 
Welcome to the Notre Dame Family. In short order, you are getting a full taste of the Notre Dame family. Our family, like all families, is dysfunctional. We strive for perfection but often fall short. We have our flaws, disagreements and issues, but ulti­mately we love our family unconditionally. For those who truly know Notre Dame, love her. Those who don’t just don’t understand. 
We love our football, maybe too much. Winning is an expectation. An expectation exemplified by our cheers when a trick play works and our jeers when the pass to the best receiver in the nation against the worst pass defense gets intercepted. Expectations that make many feel you have had plenty of months to turn around years of medioc­rity. 
We love this University, but sometimes forget her imperfections. “What would you fight for?” We state with great pride, but when things aren’t per­fect, we scream greed or accountability. Ultimately, though, we all have an indescribable feeling for her. A feeling that keeps us united. 
We love our students and all the gifts they bring to our University. We don’t like them throwing snowballs or getting arrested off campus. Although imperfect, Notre Dame students are like no other. When we lose one, we lose a family member. 
We love our football coach. We love him more with wins, and less with losses. With tragedy, thankfully rare, we don’t know how to respond. Please be patient. You have seen our dysfunction, our anger, our finger pointing and our calls for judgment. You have also witnessed the community of faith that makes this University great. Eventually, you will see the incredible forgiveness, compassion and love that define Our Lady. You are going through an incredible tragedy. We will come to recognize your eternal pain and that Declan was part of your family as well. The Notre Dame family, though dysfunctional, recognizes that we need to stay united in good times and bad. 
Coach Kelly, stay tender, strong and true. Those who know Notre Dame, your family, will pray for Declan, the Sullivan family and everyone involved in any way with this tragedy. 
Mick Connors 
alumnus Class of 1988 Nov. 3, 2010 


The Observer




Scene
page 20 Friday, May 20, 2011 

“The Social Network” defines the Facebook generation 
Movies 
The British monarch with the stammer steals the world’s heart, and all its gold statues 
For “Harry Potter” – and our childhoods 
– the end is near 




“Inception:” the movie that rocked Hollywood and continues to blow our minds 


Television 
Michael 
Scott 
leaves a 
void that 
cannot be 
filled TBS stands with Team Coco for new Conan show 


New judges reinvigorate “American Idol” 

“The Voice” discovers new talent on reality TV 
Year Revi 

Campus 
OK Go shows Notre Dame some love 






The Keenan Revue makes its triumphant return to campus 




Augustana closes the year with a concert at Legends 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer

Scene
Friday, May 20, 2011 page 21 


Events 

Guster hit off the year at the B1 Block Party 


SUB rocks Stepan Center with Chiddy Bang and O.A.R. 


Student theater brings viral videos to campus High: The Royal Wedding brings a fairy tale to life 

High: Sandra Bullock handles Hollywood scandal with dignity 


Low: Charlie Sheen stops #winning and sinks into delirium 
Low: Ark Music and Rebecca Black prove talent isn’t necessary for success 

Low: Even after growing up, Taylor Swift keeps whining 


1. “Blow” 
— Ke$ha 
2. 
“Till the World Ends” — Britney Spears 

3. 
“F**k You” 


— Cee Lo Green 
4. “Like a G6” 
— Far East Movement feat. Catarac & Dev 
5. “Teenage Dream” — Katy Perry 
6.“We R Who We R” — Ke$ha 
7. “Stereo Love” 
— Edward Maya & Vika Jigulina 
8. “I Like It” 
— Enrique Iglesias 
9. “Raise Your Glass” — P!nk 
10. “Yeah 3x” 
— Chris Brown 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Bayliss directs Irish to another tournament bid 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
This season has been another feather in the hat for Irish coach Bobby Bayliss. The team finished second in the Big East and earned a berth as a No. 2 seed in the 64­team NCAA tournament for the 20th time in 21 years. 
Team depth and versatility allowed the Irish to prolong their season May 13 in a first round match against East Tennessee State before losing the following day to fourth-ranked Ohio State. 
The match against the Atlantic Sun champion Buccaneers in Columbus played out in nail-biting fashion. 
The Irish (18-13) earned a come-from-behind 4-3 victory, with No. 4 singles freshman Greg Andrews winning the final two sets over Charles Bottoni in the final match. After the Irish fell behind 1-0 in doubles play, they rallied to win four of six singles matches, with junior Casey Watt, senior Daniel Stahl and sopho­more Blas Moros all winning in straight sets at the No. 1, 3 and 6 singles positions, respectively. After falling in his first set 2-6, Andrews rallied to win the final two sets 6-4, 7-5 to secure the vic­tory. 
This win set up a second round rematch against the Buckeyes, in which the Irish hoped to avenge a 5-2 loss from April. The Buckeyes, however, proved championship-worthy in a 4-0 win, in which they swept two doubles matches and three singles matches, all in straight sets to advance to the round of 16. 

Nevertheless, on the season, the Irish’s challenging slate of matches prepared them well for the rigors of tournament play. The team faced 23 nationally ranked teams, including the then-No. 1, No. 2 and No. 4 teams in the nation in Virginia, Ohio State and Illinois. 
“Our depth and balance have been our greatest strengths,” Bayliss said. “In looking back, we had injuries to [freshman] Billy Pecor and [junior] Sam Keeton who were projected starters and still finished with three top-20 wins.” 
The team’s depth shined in one of the season’s signature wins March 8 against No. 4 Illinois at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Irish clinched the doubles point with strong play from their No. 2 and No. 3 teams, each posting 8-2 vic­tories.The Illini were the highest-ranked opponent Notre Dame has defeated in nine years. 
Contributions came from all classes of players, from freshman Greg Andrews, who quickly became a dominating player with his 25-9 mark in doubles play, to seniors such as Stahl, Sean Tan and Tyler Davis. 
The program will graduate seven seniors, including Stahl, who plans to pursue aspirations of becoming a professional tennis player. He compiled a 24-11 record in mostly No. 3 singles play. 
“[Stahl] has become our go-to guy,” Bayliss said. “He has rock-solid ground strokes, and he just keeps getting better.” 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish win Big East title 
seven-match winning streak 
By KATIE HEIT 
at No. 4 singles. 
Sports Writer 

“I am going to miss playing for and representing such an With the strength of No. 5 amazing university, my junior Kristy Frilling’s lead-coaches who have supported ership and an infusion of tal-me in every aspect of my life ent from the freshman class, from day one and the strug-No. 20 Notre Dame battled gles, fight and passion I through adversity to post a share with the team I have 17-10 record this season and the opportunity to play next 
won  the  Big  to,”  Rafael  
East  title  to  said.  
advance to the NCAA  “I think our strength is  The Irish earned vari­ 
tournament.  our willingness to  ous  individ- 
“Our team has perse-vered through some adversi­ never give up and keep improving with every match”  ual accolades for their 2010-11 sea­son. Frilling  
ty  this  year  was  named  
and I think we've shown  Kristen Rafael Irish senior  the Big East Player of the  

that as we've positively pro­gressed throughout the season,” Frilling said. “Everyone has worked very hard and has improved a lot.” 
The Irish had a strong sea­son in singles and doubles action, ending with a win­ning record in both areas. Senior Kristen Rafael attrib­uted the team’s versatility to hard work on the court. 
“I think our strength is our willingness to never give up and keep improving with every match,” senior Rafael said. “Our season has not been perfect, but we know that with every opportunity, we will improve into the great team that we know we have the ability to be.” 
Rafael ended her college career on a high note with a Year for the 
second 
straight sea­son after losing only four matches. In addition, Irish coach Jay Louderback earned the Big East Coach of the Year award. This year’s award, Louderback’s second in a row, marks the ninth time he has earned the honor since the Irish joined the Big East. Notre Dame’s trip to the NCAA tournament was also the 18th in Louderback’s 22-year coach­ing career. 
Junior Shannon Mathews and freshman Jennifer Kellner also earned spots on the all-Big East team. 
In doubles, Mathews and Kellner ended their season with a 19-4 record. They lost in the second round of the NCAA tournament to the Northwestern’s Linda Abu Mushrefova and Nida Hamilton. The Northwestern duo broke Frilling and Mathews’ 17-game winning streak. 
Mathews also performed well in singles, earning the Most Outstanding Player in the Big East tournament award. 
Frilling was proud of the way her team worked together this season. 
“I think our team has great chemistry and we all care about how we do and about each other,” Frilling said. “Little things like that really help, even when you don't think it matters.” 
The Irish were disappoint­ed with their season-ending defeat by Northwestern, but the loss only made them more eager for revenge next season. 
“The most difficult part of any season is the losses,” Rafael said. “It also gives us motivation to fight and be hungrier for the next match.” 
The graduating Rafael said she feels confident that Notre Dame’s young talent will enable the team to com­pete at a high level after she leaves. 
“With four freshmen, one of our greatest strengths was the ability for them to step up and play like veterans, like Kellner and Julie Sabacinski have,” Rafael said. 
Contact Katie Heit kheit@nd.edu 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Seniors Perry and Brovsky lead NCAA tourney run 
foe — Clark coached at ly plays for the Major League ers led a group of seniors that that he might miss the whole 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

Dartmouth for nine seasons — Soccer team the Portland Clark said have been the most season, but Phil as a captain told 
Sports Writer 

came at the end of a well-played Timbers. Graduated midfielder spirited group he has coached at the team ‘I’ll be at every prac­season. Justin Morrow also left a gap on Notre Dame. tice,’” Clark said. “From there, 
The arrival of fall at Notre “I always say it’s a good sea-the field when he went to play “The biggest positive of the he worked like an absolute Dame brings with it a few cer-son to reach the NCAA tourna-for the San Jose Earthquakes. season was that the group of Trojan, just worked so hard to tain facts — the days will get ment, and a great one if you can The holes were ably filled by the seniors was just a terrific get back in and have success for shorter, the temperature colder, advance and reach the College senior duo of Perry and midfield-group,” Clark said. “There was us.” the leaves will change color and Cup,” he said. “To be the ninth er Jeb Brovsky. as good group harmony as I’ve The success of the senior lead-Bobby Clark will lead his Irish overall seed out of 200 teams in Perry took over for Dike as the had since I’ve been coaching ers came full circle when squad to the NCAA tournament. college soccer, that’s the top five Big East’s top goal-scorer with here, and the credit goes to the Brovsky, Perry and senior right 
The 2010 year was business as percent. That’s where we want 12 goals on the campaign, and senior class. They’re a very posi-back Bilal Duckett were chosen usual for the Notre Dame coach, to be. We needed to have taken also led the conference in points tive group, and they were even in the MLS SuperDraft, and as the Irish (10-6-4) rode the full advantage of our good place-(28), shots (73) and game-win-more excited about the program Tuttle was chosen in the supple-goal scoring of senior forward ment, however. If you look at ning goals (five) en route to nab-as seniors than they were as mental SuperDraft. Clark said Steven Perry and the leadership professional soccer, the best bing a unanimous first-team all-freshmen.” the selections underscored a of a deep senior class to their team rarely wins in a cup for-Big East selection. Brovsky start-Clark said another highlight of larger victory. 10th straight NCAA appearance mat.” ed every game in the midfield for the season was senior captain “What’s more important is that under Clark. The team fell 2-1 to Coming off an 11-8-4 cam-the Irish, leading a young group and goalkeeper Philip Tuttle’s all four are going to graduate,” Dartmouth on a golden goal in paign in 2009, Clark and the of midfielders and tallying four return from a preseason menis-he said. extra time during the second Irish had to replace the produc-goals and an assist, garnering cus injury to start 13 games for round. Clark said the bitter tion of the Big East’s lead goal-first-team all-Big East honors. Notre Dame. Contact Chris Allen at defeat at the hands of a familiar scorer Bright Dike, who current-The two conference first-team-“Initially the prognosis was callen10@nd.edu 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
ITALIANATE-STYLE NINETEENTH  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  
FOR SALE  CENTURY ARCHITECTURE. WIDE PROJECTING EAVES&  FOR RENT  NOTICES  go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If  
ORNATE BRACKETING. CON- you or someone you love needs  
STRUCTION NOT COMPLETE  3 bdrm, 2 f.baths, all appliances,  confidential support or assistance,  
OFFERING NEW OWNER MANY  deck overlooking private pond,  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  
New Craftsman style home for sale.  CHOICES. 4 BLOCKS FROM  laundry rm., garage, secure living,  4BR 4 BA home 1 mile north of  If you or someone you care about  For more information, visit ND's  
909 St. Peter St. 5 bedrooms, 3 1/2  CAMPUS. DREAM KITCHEN, 10'  clubhouse, pool, tennis courts and  campus for rent for football, gradua­ has been sexually assaulted, we  website at: http://pregnancysup­ 
baths: 3960 sq. ft. Cutstom cabi- CEILINGS, HARDWOOD FLOORS,  more. ½ mile from ND Campus.  tion and other ND weekends.  can help.  port@nd.edu  
netry throughout. New construction  3 BEDROOMS, 2-1/2 BATHS.  $109,500 Contact:  ———————————————  
ready to occupy end of June  MASTER SUITE W/BALCONY.  BobWitt@CressyEverett.com 574­ 
Showings available Graduation  LOWER LEVEL FAMILY ROOM  277-2666  574-286-0081 or bpblauvelt@com- For more information, visit Notre  Thank you Jimmy.  
week 5/20 through 5/23 Call 610­ W/2 EGRESS WINDOWS, FULL  cast.net  Dame’s website: http://csap.nd.edu  Thank you Eric.  
952-4156 for appointment.  BATH. CALL Kim Kollar, Weichert,  Thank you.  
Realtors, 574-274-7440  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Saint Mary’s:Year in Review 
Soccer rebuilds under new coach; Cross Country fnishes in conference’s top-fve; Golf wins MIAA tournament to qualify for NCAAs 
Observer Staff Report 
Soccer 
Mike Joyce faced a daunting task in his first year as the Belles’ coach. 
After losing nine seniors from the 2009 squad, the cupboard seemed bare. While the Belles did struggle during the season, Joyce developed young talent despite a tough sched­ule and has the team primed and confident for a solid 2011 season. 
Sophomore Maddie Meckes said although the team did not register a large number of wins, the players never lacked heart. 
“This season was very much a rebuilding year for us because we lost nine seniors, and we had to integrate several freshmen into our starting lineup,” Meckes said. “As in any rebuilding year, we had a lot of ups and downs. 
“One of our biggest strengths is our tenacity. We always work hard until the very end of the game, so we usually end up having a much better second half.” 
One of the bright sports for Saint Mary’s (3-16, 1-7 MIAA) was the emergence of freshman Mollie Valencia, who, along with junior Katelyn Tondo-Steele, led the Belles with eight points on the season and was named to the all-MIAA second team. 
Meckes added that she thought one of the tougher things about playing on a young team was get­ting off to a fast start in games. 
“I think our biggest weakness was playing consistently for an entire match,” she said. “In many of our games, we started off a little slow, and ended up down by a few goals in the first half, leaving us with little hope for the second half.” 
Although the Belles will have another challenging schedule next year, they hope to mature as a team and make a run at the MIAA title in 2011. 
“Our outlook for next season is very promising,” Valencia said. “We have many top quality recruits coming in, but at the same time 10 starters [are] returning. I think we are all looking forward to next sea­son and hopefully have a good showing in our conference and [making] it into the playoffs.” 
Volleyball 
Despite opening their conference season with a victory for the first time in 11 years, the young Belles squad struggled to a 5-21 finish, winning just three of 16 conference matches. 
The season looked promising when Saint Mary’s defeated Albion College Sept. 10 in straight sets in their first conference match of the season. Junior setter Danie Brink started in the match, serving three aces, accumulating 30 assists and earning recognition as MIAA Athlete of the Week. But Brink’s season was cut short just a few days later when she suffered a sea­son-ending injury in a match against Calvin College, dealing a serious blow to a Belles squad that was already short on veterans. 
The next Saint Mary’s victories came at the Manchester Invitational, where the Belles won two matches on the first day. The squad had two more conference victories over the course of the sea­son, defeating the Britons for the second time at Albion College and prevailing over Adrian College in a five-set thriller. The season ended in the first round of the MIAA tourna­ment when No. 6 Hope College defeated the Belles in three sets. 
Despite a disappointing record on the court, the Belles still had several notable accomplishments. 
Junior libero Meghann Rose sur­passed the 1,000 digs mark in her third year of play. Senior setter Ellen Huelsmann finished her career with 71 service aces, 82 set assists, 106 kills and 749 digs. 
“Huelsmann was the recipient of the team’s Impact Player and Coaches Award at the end of the season,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “She had the fewest attacking errors of the players with at least 300 attack attempts. [She is] this year’s recipient of the Saint Mary’s College Athletic Leadership Award winner.” 
She also earned a 4.0 grade-point average during the fall semester and the team earned a 3.48 grade-point average overall. 
Cross Country 
Saint Mary’s enjoyed immense success during the 2010 season, finishing in the MIAA top-five for the fifth straight season. Members of the team set 39 different person­al records, and sophomore Julia Kenney became the fifth runner in program history to be named to the all-MIAA team and the youngest member of the program to earn all-region honors. 
Proud of her team’s accomplish­ments, Belles coach Jackie Bauters said her players were not limited to success on the course. 
“Going into the 2010 season the team had one major goal — to fin­ish third in the conference,” Bauters said. “Outside of athletic performances, they also wanted to maintain the highest team GPA on campus. This year they were able to achieve both of those goals.” 
Breaking into the conference top three was a first for the Belles in program history. The team also reached its academic goals with fly­ing colors — as a team, the runners boasted an impressive 3.76 grade-point average for the fall semester, a feat Bauters was particularly proud of. 
“Academically, the team has con­tinued to amaze me,” she said. “I am so proud of them. To see them obtain such success [academically and athletically] this season is truly what Division III athletics is all about.” 
Unfortunately, we are graduating a large, talented senior class. We will miss them and all the gifts they have brought to our program for the past four years. It will be chal­lenging to fill their shoes overnight, but hopefully the mindset is in place and our returners can pass on their experience to our incoming class.” 
Swimming 
The 2010-11 season saw the Belles break new ground in multi­ple areas as the squad ended the year on a high note, giving hope for next season. 
First year coach Mark Benishek led Saint Mary’s to a fifth-place fin­ish in the MIAA, tying a program best. The Belles also placed two swimmers on the all-MIAA team for the first time. 
Junior individual medley and breaststroke swimmer Audrey Dalrymple and sophomore distance swimmer Ellie Watson earned the postseason honors. 
Benishek said his first year went better than he could have hoped. 
“We had a great finish to the sea­son and exceeded all expectations,” he said. “I believe we probably had one of the smallest rosters in quite a few years, and to have that kind of finish — you couldn’t ask for a bet­ter first season as a coach.” 
Saint Mary’s loses only one senior, Jami Nelis, to graduation. Benishek said the return of a number of ris­ing juniors in the fall after studying abroad, coupled with a new class of incoming freshmen, will help the team continue to improve next sea­son. 
“You’ve always got to continue pushing yourself,” he said. “With almost our entire team coming back, plus the addition of a few, we are pretty excited. We look forward to trying to challenge some of the teams that finished ahead of us in conference.” 
Tennis 
Although Saint Mary’s fell short of a conference title, Belles coach Dale Campbell still views the 2011 cam­paign as a successful one. 
“Overall, we improved, and this was one of our better seasons,” he said. “We took some steps forward in doubles, we’re closer to the top of conference, but we’re not as strong as we want to be.” 
The Belles (13-8, 5-3 MIAA) con­cluded their season with a 5-2 loss against ultimate MIAA champion Albion in the conference tourna­ment semifinals. In the quarterfi­nals, Saint Mary’s defeated Calvin for the second time this season, a high point for the squad. Prior to this season, Saint Mary’s last defeated the conference foe in 2007. 
“Beating Calvin twice this year in close 5-4 decisions was a good fin­ish for our seniors,” Campbell said. 
Over the last four years, the sen­ior class has compiled an impres­sive 50-36 record while finishing no lower than fifth in the MIAA. 
“[The seniors are a] really fun group and they came together as a team,” Campbell said. “They com­peted hard and their experience helped them succeed. We’ll miss them.” 
The Belles will return freshmen Margaret Boden and Mary Catherine Faller next season, a campaign that could be very bright if the team is able to build upon its 2011 success. 
“We have two or three freshmen coming in next year. It’ll be sort of a new start,” Campbell said. “We have an eager, young group with a strong future.” 
Softball 
Saint Mary’s ended its season on a five-game winning streak, turning a rough mid-season into a success­ful finish. The Belles finished with a record of 20-13, though their 9-7 conference record was not enough to secure them a spot in the post­season. 
“I think we definitely kept up the fight,” junior infielder Katie Mitchell said. “We had some pretty tough setbacks in the middle of our sea­son, but we stayed confident, played within ourselves and fin­ished our season on a positive note by winning six of the last eight games.” 
The Belles had a tough season in terms of playing conditions, suffer­ing seven game postponements due to rain. Their doubleheader against Hope was rescheduled four times before the teams finally managed to split the series. 
Saint Mary’s will have a number of returning players next season, but it will lose power hitter senior Hayley Bojorquez. Bojorquez has started over 30 games in each of her four years in the Belles pro­gram. 
“We’re losing Hayley, a big asset to both our offense and defense,” Mitchell said. “We’ll miss her expe­rience in the outfield and her lead­ership in the dugout.” 
Though they had a disappointing season, the Belles are already look­ing toward next year and have set a few goals they are determined to meet. 
“Personally I think, and I’m sure my teammates would agree, the goal is to make it to the conference tournament,” Mitchell said. “We want to prove that we really are a talented team that deserves to be there.” 
Golf 
Looking to build on an already strong winning tradition with great play this spring, Saint Mary’s looks to establish itself as a national power with another NCAA tourna­ment appearance. 
The No. 8 Belles’ spring season started with a series of top finishes at prestigious national tourna­ments. The team started off on a high note, as evidenced by the record-shattering 66 score posted by senior captain Mary Kate Boyce at the season-opening George Fox Invitational. That score was the lowest round in school history by five strokes, and behind it Saint Mary’s rallied to a second place fin­ish. 
The team continued to build on that momentum at the Southwestern Invitational, where it fought off strong winds and top-25 competition for its first victory. Boyce said the mix of personal and team success has made the season rewarding. 
“What is exciting about this golf season is we have been successful in so many different aspects,” Boyce said. 
After the triumph in the Southwestern Invitational, the Belles rolled into the MIAA NCAA qualifier looking for their third straight NCAA tournament berth. The Belles fell behind early and trailed rival No. 13 Olivet by 12 strokes after the first round. 
Led by closing scores of 78 from Boyce and freshman Marin Beagley, the Belles charged back in the final round, eventually winning the tournament by 24 strokes. 
“Winning the MIAA champi­onships is huge because we have such a strong conference,” Boyce said. “Knocking off the No. 13 team in the country to get the automatic bid is a confidence booster, as well as great recognition for our golf program.” 
Now, Saint Mary’s will set its sights on an NCAA championship. The team finished fourth in the competition last year and hopes to contend for the title once again. 


September 1: November 2: 
January 29: March 14: 
Cross country sweeps the top eight spots Volleyball ends the season with a 3-0 loss Sophomore Ellie Watson and junior Softball puts 24 runs on the board in in a 15-58 dual meet win over Goshen. to top-seeded Hope at the MIAA champi-Audrey Dalrymple win three events each two doubleheader wins over Kenyon and September 8: onships. as swimming beats Alma, their frst dual UMass-Dartmouth. In the midst of a seven-game losing November 20: meet win in over two years. March 18: streak, soccer is blown out at home by Basketball wins the North Central tour-Senior Mary Kate Boyce leads the golf Illinois Wesleyan, 6-0. nament by blowing out the hosts, 75-46. February 17–19: team by shooting a 66 in the frst round 
Swimming fnishes ffth at the MIAA of the season, breaking the school record 
October 9: December 30: championships, breaking the school-by fve strokes. Volleyball rallies to beat Albion in the Basketball beats Point Loma Nazarene record in the 400-freestyle relay in the ffth set, ending a seven-game losing 57-51 in the fnal game of the San Diego process. April 18: 
streak. Surf N’ Slam tournament. February 19: Senior Mary Therese Lee outlasts her October 27: Junior Kelley Murphy scores her 1,000th opponent to give the tennis team a 5-4 Soccer ends their season with a 3-1 win career point as the basketball team wins victory over Calvin, its seventh win in 
at Trine, its frst MIAA win of the year. its regular season fnale. eight matches. 
October 30: April 29: 
Sophomore Julia Kenney earns all-MIAA Tennis loses to No. 1 seed Albion in the honors as the cross country team takes 
semifnals of the MIAA tournament. third place at the MIAA championships 
May 1: 
for the frst time in school history. 
Softball wins both games in a Senior Day doubleheader against Albion. 
May 10–13: 
Golf shoots a 992 at the NCAA champion­ships to fnish fourth, equaling their best fnish ever. 

ND WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL 
Season falls short of expectations 

By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Irish coach Debbie Brown has high expectations for her team each and every season, making the 2010 campaign a significant setback in the recent success of the program. 
“It is our goal to win the Big East championship and make the NCAA tournament every year, so this year was certainly a disap­pointment,” she said. 
Although Notre Dame’s 2010 run was labeled a disappoint­ment by Brown’s standards, the team’s season was fraught with individual and team successes. During the campaign, Brown earned her 450th win as head coach, senior middle hitter Kelly Sciacca recorded her 1000th kill and freshman outside hitter Andrea McHugh was named the region’s most outstanding fresh­man. 
The Irish finished the season with a 19-13 overall record and an 11-5 mark in Big East play. The young Notre Dame roster showed promise and resolve throughout the season, but struggled when facing top com­petition. 
The Irish lost a talented senior class at the end of the year. Kelly Sciacca and libero Angela Puente were key players for Notre Dame this season, while outside hitter Stephanie Slatt and defender Megan Dunne also made key contributions to the team. 
Brown had nothing but kind words to remember the senior class by. 
“I think so highly of the class as a whole,” Brown said. “They were all great people, great stu­dent athletes and wonderful ambassadors for the University. They each brought very specific talents and were very, very valu­able to the team. I enjoyed coaching each of them and it was hard to say goodbye to them.” 
Most notably, middle hitter Kelly Sciacca rounded out one of the most celebrated careers in Notre Dame volleyball history. Sciacca recorded the 1,000th kill of her career on Oct. 15 against DePaul. With that accomplish­ment, she became only the ninth player in Notre Dame history to finish with 1000 kills and 400 blocks. 
While the senior class will be difficult to replace, the young contributors proved themselves on the court this season. 
“I think the young players improved a tremendous amount this season,” Brown said. “We had several freshmen and soph­omores on the floor each match. The experience they gained was very valuable and the seniors did a great job bringing them along.” 
Amongst the talented young Irish nucleus, McHugh excelled during the 2010 campaign. McHugh earned not only the Big East freshman of the year award, but was voted the Northeast Region Freshman of Year by the American Volleyball Coaches’ Association. 
“Andrea was amazing this sea­son and earned some great acco­lades,” Brown said. “We knew she would be a significant con­tributor to the team, but didn’t necessarily foresee that she would perform at such a high level.” 
Looking to next season, the Irish restocked their lineup with a talented triumvirate of high school stars. Toni Alugbue, Jeni Houser and Meg Vonderhaar are set to enroll at Notre Dame in the fall and should make an immediate impact on the Irish roster. 
“We really are pleased with our recruiting class,” Brown said. “We have three really strong freshmen who will add considerable depth. They are all great offensive players, which is an area we really need to improve in. They are great com­petitors, all from great club pro­grams, and we expect to see really good things out of them.” 
Brown said that the returning players have already made great gains this spring to set up the Irish for a successful run in 2011. 
“The returners have been working all spring to prepare themselves for the fall,” Brown said. “We are pleased with our offseason workouts and condi­tioning. We have improved everyone’s vertical jumps, which was a big goal for our team.” 
Thanks to a strong offseason and an incoming crop of talented freshmen, Brown believes the team is poised to contend for a title next year. 
“We always want to be in a position where we win Big East championships,” Brown said. “That will really never change and with the talent we are bring­ing back for next year, we think that is a very realistic goal.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


HOCKEY 

Young team closes Joyce Center with Frozen run 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
In the history of Notre Dame’s 43-year tenure at the Joyce Center, the 2010-11 sea­son will go down as the twist ending no one saw coming. 
With a roster featuring 12 freshmen and only 13 return­ing players coming off a disap­pointing 2009-10 
season to give the roster its youthful makeup. 
Following the graduation of seven seniors, junior all-American defenseman Ian Cole left for the St. Louis Blues of the NHL. 
Freshman right wing Kyle Palmieri and Notre Dame signee and defenseman Jarred Tinordi soon followed suit with the Anaheim Ducks and 
Montreal 

campaign, Irish Canadiens, 
“We knew we were 
coach Jeff respectively. Jackson’s team going to be young, but The high posted a 25-14-5 turnover of 
we didn’t know what 
record, finished p l a y e r s
kind of an impact
second in the allowed for an CCHA and those young players influx of 12 advanced signees to join 
would have on our 
through the the team, 
team.” 
NCAA Northeast among them regional to make bl ue-chip the program’s Jeff Jackson recruits in second Frozen defenseman 
Irish coach 
Four appearance S t e p h e n before bowing Johns, left out to eventual champion wing Anders Lee, center T.J. Minnesota-Duluth. Tynan and goalkeeper Steven 
The final season at the only Summerhays. The class began arena Notre Dame varsity training with Notre Dame in hockey has ever known repre-the summer, which Jackson sented a turnaround not even said was key to their develop-Jackson could predict. ment. 
“We kind of went into the “The summer bridge pro-season with open eyes. We gram definitely helped our knew we were going to be guys in a couple areas,” he young, but we didn’t know said. “They got an idea of what what kind of an impact those they would have to do academ­young players would have on ically and then the other part our team,” Jackson said. of it is they got to spend a lot of “Certainly we were hoping to time with their future team-have a good team, but I don’t mates.” know we were thinking we Though the dozen newcom­were going to the Frozen Four ers brought a fresh look to the this year with the youth that Joyce Center ice, the roster we had.” also featured four seniors, 
Before the Irish could begin three of whom remained from to bounce back from a 13-17-8 the 2007-08 team that pro-record in 2009-10, a number duced the program’s first of events occurred in the off-Frozen Four run and title game appearance. 


Though left wing Calle Ridderwall, right wing Ryan Guentzel and center Ben Ryan were all program veterans, defenseman Joe Lavin was chosen as the team captain despite being with the program less than a year after transfer­
ring  from  Providence  last  
December.  
Jackson  said  the  choice  

spoke to Lavin’s leadership ability on and off the ice. 
“Lavin as a captain may have been the biggest surprise in terms of people’s expectations of the leadership. Joe came in halfway through his junior year and gained a lot of respect right away,” he said. “He’s an adult, and he does things the right way on the ice, off the ice and in the class­room.” 
The season started with the Irish rattling off five wins in their first six games, highlight­ed by a 2-1 home defeat of then-No. 1 Boston College in which Ridderwall lit the lamp twice and sophomore netmin­der Mike Johnson stopped all but one of Boston College’s 29 shots. 
Jackson said the victory gave the young team confidence moving into the bulk of the CCHA schedule. 
“At the time I think they thought it was a huge upset, and at the time maybe it was,” he said. “I think it was a real boost to their confidence in terms of knowing they could play with a top team in the country. There were points of our season that made them more confident, and also some setbacks that made them real­ize that they would have to get better.” 
The emergence of Lee and Tynan as national freshman scoring leaders helped the Irish move into first-place in the CCHA standings heading into a 17-day Christmas break, positioning the unlikely leaders as CCHA favorites. The Irish wrestled with Miami (OH) and Michigan on a week-by week basis until the last night of the season, when the Irish found themselves one point ahead of Michigan with only a Saturday night game against Western Michigan remaining on the slate for the CCHA title. 
Two first-period goals from the Broncos put the Irish in a 2-0 hole they would not recov­er from, and Michigan’s 5-0 victory on the same night handed the Irish a second-place finish. 
The loss, coupled with two decisive losses in the CCHA tournament, meant the senior leadership needed to right the team’s mindset heading into the NCAA tournament. 
“I think they realized that they were too amped up at times,” Jackson said. “We would take unnecessary penal­ties and put ourselves behind the eight-ball in big games. I think that happened on the last night of the season and in Detroit against Miami.” 
The team wasted no time responding to the series of defeats, emerging from the NCAA Northeast regional as a No. 3 seed with wins over Merrimack and New Hampshire, two teams playing less than an hour from their respective campuses. In the regional final, the Irish played arguably their most complete game of the season, highlight­ed by a Regional MVP poorly in that game by taking penalties.” 
Though they fell just short of a national title, the final sea­son at the Joyce Center saw plenty of positives for the future of Irish hockey at the newly constructed Compton Family Center. 
The campaign featured the emergence of two national standouts, Tynan and Lee, who finished first and second, respectively, in scoring among all freshmen nationally. Tynan, selected by many media outlets as the national freshman of the year in college hockey, came to South Bend instead of spending a year in junior hockey after the late departures of Tinordi and Palmieri — a fact that made his 54-point campaign even more remarkable. 
“T.J. is a competitor,” Jackson said. “He’d make plays in front of the net, but he’d also make plays before he’d get to the net front. I think he’s a playmaker, and he’s proba­
performance bly more of a
“T.J. is a competitor. 
in goal from skilled, dynamic Johnson, who He’d make plays in type of player.” made 37 Lee, who 
front of the net, but 
saves. chose hockey 
he’d also make plays 
“I thought over football we refocused before he’d get to the after being right away,” recruited by a
net front.” 
Jackson said. number of col­“The game leges to play 
Jeff Jackson
against New quarterback, Hampshi re Irish coach leveraged his was probably size and our best game strength to of the season become a physi­in terms of overall play, with cal presence on the wing and the puck and without the puck. led the Irish with 24 goals. ” “Anders is dominant from a 
The strong play from the physical perspective,” Jackson regional brought Notre Dame said. “He gets deep in the to the Frozen Four in Saint offensive zone. He has a great Paul, Minn., to face off with release, great shot and is another team playing in its always in the crease area. But own backyard — Minnesota-I think next year, more than Duluth. Freshman left wing just Tynan and Lee, I think all Jeff Costello got the Irish on of the players in that class can the board in the game’s open-increase their numbers and be ing minute, but three power-key for us.” play goals and an even-The scoring duo of Tynan strength goal gave the eventual and Lee may headline the NCAA champion Bulldogs an freshman class, but they are insurmountable lead over just a part of the young nucle-Notre Dame, who fell 4-3. us of the team that will open 
Jackson said the game ulti-up one of the premier hockey mately exposed a weakness in facilities in the country in the Irish special teams. October 2011 in style — with 
“We took too many penalties the raising of a Frozen Four early in the game,” he said. banner. “That played into one of our What a way to close the most inconsistent parts of our book. game, our special teams, which were an issue all season. I Contact Chris Allen at think we played our hand callen10@nd.edu 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Surprisingly successful season ends with early exit 
season dashed, the Irish moved 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
forward and learned from the 
Editor-in-Chief 
loss, including one thing in par­ticular, according to freshman 

Losing the all-time win-guard Eric Atkins. ningest class in program histo-“I learned we won’t be unde­ry – Tory Jackson and Luke feated,” Atkins said after play-Harangody – was supposed to ing 31 minutes and handing out cripple this year’s Irish. four assists in the affair. Instead, senior forward Ty On the season as a whole, Nash claimed that title for him-Atkins proved crucial. After the self, running his total to 96 Kentucky defeat, Notre Dame wins after earning 27 more this reeled off four more wins, season. including a 69-55 rout of No. 9 
In fact, the Irish won eight of Georgetown, putting the Irish those before losing their first, on the verge of the top-10. marking the best start in Irish Three days later, though, on coach Mike Brey’s tenure. the road against No. 5 Notre Dame leapt from Syracuse, Notre Dame fell 70­unranked to the top 25 after 58, crippled after senior for-winning the Old Spice Classic in ward Carleton Scott suffered a Orlando, Fla. hamstring injury in what was a 
“I learned something about close game’s final minutes. As my team that I knew I would Scott nursed the hamstring down here,” back to health, Brey said after Atkins started defeating Notre Dame’s 
Georgia, “I think the frst thing next five games, California and playing 39 min-
you have to do is
Wisconsin. “You utes in crucial hope to learn expect things of Big East victo­while you’re yourself before you ries over No. 8 winning, cer-Connecticut and 
can do them.” 
tainly that’s St. John’s. helpful. But for Yet the true us right now, Ben Hansbrough star in both this team is senior guard games, as was very confident.” the case all sea-
That confi-son, was dence was only Hansbrough . By the end of the season, the season, Hansbrough raved bye in the Big East tournament. slightly tempered when the The transfer from Mississippi Hansbrough’s trophy case had about the versatility Martin The double bye resulted in a Irish traveled to Louisville to State finished his second and doubled and redoubled in size. would bring to the Irish. quarterfinal victory over face Kentucky on a neutral final season playing for the The guard was named Notre “We didn’t have anybody as Cincinnati before falling to court — neutral only by the Irish with 18.4 points per Dame Monogram Club MVP, a far as a Scott Martin on our Louisville 83-77 in overtime in strictest of definitions as game, shooting 43.5 percent John R. Wooden All-American, offense last year,” Hansbrough the Big East Semifinals in Freedom Hall was filled with from beyond the arc, including a Second Team Associated said. “Scott may have the best Madison Square Garden. tens of thousands of Wildcats hitting eight of 12 threes on Press All-10 to 15-foot “Really disappointed,” Brey fans. Senior Night in a 93-72 victory American and Big c a t c h -a n d -said afterward. “We wanted to 
A brilliant first half from sen-over No. 19 Villanova. East Player of the shoot on the try and get Saturday night ior guard Ben Hansbrough, “I think the first thing you Year. squad. He is here. We’ve never been to eventually named Big East have to do is expect things of Brey was also something of a Saturday night.” 
“People are going to 
Player of the Year, led to a tie yourself before you can do named Big East zone-buster. … With a 26-6 record, including at halftime before he, and the them,” Hansbrough said follow-Coach of the Year, see an offensive side People are a 15-5 mark in the Big East, rest of the Irish, lost their touch ing the Senior Night festivities. the third time in this year that Notre going to see an Notre Dame waited with bated in the second half, losing 72-“If you don’t expect yourself to the last five sea-offensive side breath while the NCAA tourna-
Dame hasn’t seen in 
58. do them, then you’ll never do sons he has this year that ment field was released. A No. With the dream of a perfect them.” claimed the prize. awhile.” maybe Notre 2 seed with opening round 
Behind Brey and Dame hasn’t games in Chicago left the Irish Hansbrough, the seen in excited for the possibility of a
Ben Hansbrough
Irish finished the awhile.” deep tournament run. 
senior guard
Big East season in J o i n i n g “[I’m] thrilled to jump on the second place, one Hansbrough, bus to come down the toll road game behind Scott, Nash over here,” Brey said before Pittsburgh, even and Martin in the opening game against No. though Notre Dame topped the the starting five was fourth-15-seed Akron. then-second-ranked Panthers year forward Tim Abromaitis. But, the run was not to be, as 56-51 Jan 24 in only the second Abromaitis averaged 15.4 Notre Dame topped the Zips loss in 53 home games for points per game, and hit 42.9 69-56 but fell to No. 10-seed Pittsburgh. In the upset, the percent of his three-point Florida State 71-57 a mere two Irish resorted to the slow-paced attempts, as he started all 34 days later. “burn” offense that Brey first games in the season. After the early exit, a com-instituted late last season, but The fivesome, all having mon plague during Brey’s 11 had not yet been seen this cam-played college years at Notre paign. basketball for Dame, the Irish 
“This was the first time we at least four coach knew his committed to an all-out ‘burn,’ years, gave team was dis-and we beat Pitt doing it two Notre Dame a “We’re all really app ointed, times last year,” Hansbrough depth of expe-though with 
leveled physically and

said following the win. “This is rience nearly good reason probably the best win I’ve had unrivaled emotionally because we even beyond … maybe ever.” across the invested so much. It’s the one game. 
The “burn” offense did not country. “We’re all 
hard for me to frame 

appear for another whole con-“You’ve got really leveled test for the Irish, but made five guys who the season right now.” physically and cameos throughout the season are in their e m o t i o n a l l y when Brey wanted to change fourth or fifth because we 
Mike Brey 

pace. years of college invested so 
Irish coach

“We are still just as aggres-basketball, ” much,” Brey sive as we normally are, it just Brey said. “We said. “It’s hard takes us longer to get to it,” have a nucleus for me to frame senior forward Scott Matin of guys back the season said. “We don’t stop looking to that have had right now.” score, we just wait for it, wait some success together. We have Yet Scott recalled what had for it, let the clock burn down a five guys who are technically been expected of the team little bit, then we have our seniors who have been around before the season, and by how aggressive mindset the rest of a little bit, and so it’s a great much Notre Dame exceeded the shot clock.” group to try to build with and those expectations. 
Martin finally joined the Irish grow with.” “We had a great year,” he on the hardwood after two sea-With that experience, came a said. sons on the bench — one due to late-season push, winning 12 of NCAA transfer regulations and the final 14 regular season Contact Douglas Farmer at one due to a torn ACL. Before games, and earning a double dfarmer1@nd.edu 






SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
DAN JACOBS/The Observer GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Clockwise, from top left: senior linebacker Kerry Neal celebrates after beating USC; Ryan Guentzel and Sean Lorenz celebrate a goal en route to a Frozen Four appearance; sophomore midfelder Steve Murphy shoots for the No. 4 Irish; sophomore Skylar Diggins celebrates after the Irish defeated perennial power Connecticut in the Final Four; the women’s soccer team celebrates its 1-0 victory over Stanford in the national title game; senior and Big East Player of the Year Ben Hansbrough shoots the ball against Marquette Jan. 22. 




DAN JACOBS/The Observer 





SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Clockwise, from top left: senior cornerback Darrin Walls refects on Notre Dame’s overtime loss to Michigan State; the Irish leave the court after losing 76-70 to Texas A&M in the national title game; senior libero Angela Puente goes up for a block during a diffcult season for Notre Dame; sophomore Zeke Motta surveys the action during Notre Dame’s 35-17 loss to Navy Oct. 23; the Irish watch the end of their second-round loss in the NCAA tournament to Florida State; freshman T.J. Tynan refects after the Irish lost in the Frozen Four. 
BASEBALL 

Aoki improves program in frst season as coach 

By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 

Despite a Big East semifinal upset at Louisville May 13, the No. 18 Irish have a 45-9 record and a regular season conference cham­pionship under their belt, as well as high expectations for the NCAA tournament. 
From the outset, senior catcher Alexia Clay said the team knew it had the potential for a very suc­cessful year. 
“We knew that this year was going to be a pretty big year for us, and for the most part I think what we anticipated has been true,” Clay said. “We had a really good season, won a lot of games and won a regular season cham­pionship.” 
The Irish (45-9, 19-1 Big East) started the season off by rolling to a nine-game winning streak, the best start in program history. But a spring break trip to California in mid-March ended in disappoint­ment for the squad, as close loss­es to four out of five top-20 teams slowed Notre Dame’s momentum. 
Though their performance over the trip proved that the Irish could hold their own against top teams this season, the trip also exposed a few key flaws in the Notre Dame arsenal, specifically pitching and hitting in the clutch. 
The team’s struggles continued as it returned home, as a loss to Western Michigan broke a 21­game home win streak. Both the spring break trip and the unex­pected home loss were wake up calls for Notre Dame. 
“I think that spring break was definitely a turning point, but teams go through big and little humps throughout the season and that was a big one for us,” Clay said. “We’ve had a couple of other ones that have been reminders that we always have to be on our game because people can score runs off of you any day.” 
The Western Michigan loss was one turning point the team cer­tainly took to heart, rattling off 14 straight wins following the defeat. The run was snapped by a loss to Louisville Apr. 17, but Notre Dame responded by wining 14 more games leading up to the Big East semifinals, where the Cardinals were once again Notre Dame’s downfall. 
The second half of the season saw the rise of freshman pitcher Laura Winter, who had a stellar breakout season highlighted by a no-hitter Apr. 27 at South Florida. The excellent hitting of senior captain Heather Johnson, who won three straight Big East Player of the Week titles and produced a 21-game hitting streak, also high­lighted the latter half of the year. 
The fifth-ranked Cardinals, who have knocked the Irish out of the 


By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
With a new coach and a young team, Notre Dame had an excuse for its anemic offense and poor run support early in the season. 
But the Irish (21-25-1, 12­11 Big East) are starting to peak at the right time after winning consecutive series against Big East opponents Seton Hall and Rutgers — two of the three teams vying for the final spot in the Big East Tournament. Notre Dame capped off its recent success with a three-game sweep of South Florida last weekend. 
The story of Irish coach Mik Aoki’s first season has been his young squad’s con­siderable progress, guided by the senior leaders. 
“The one thing that I have been really impressed with and thankful for is our sen­iors who have really bought in and done an exemplary job of leading the team throughout the year,” Aoki said. “There has been some progress and we hope that it’ll be enough to play us into the [Big East] tournament.” 
Notre Dame hired Aoki in July of 2010 to replace Dave Schrage. Aoki led Boston College to its first NCAA Regional since 1967 with a 34-26 record in 2009. 
This year Aoki has faced some new struggles as his team’s worst enemy has been itself. His toughest challenge may be dealing with an inconsistency that emerged from the season’s onset. 
“This year has been a little up-and-down,” Aoki said. “If the season were to end today, I would say that we have underachieved who I think we could be a little bit. At times we have really shown that we could be a quality ball club, and at times I have been really disappointed with our level of play.” 
But the biggest strength for the Irish has been their pitching, as the staff is ranked first in the pitching-heavy Big East in runs allowed (136) and second in earned run average (3.00). 
Brian Dupra (3-5), Lowe’s Senior Class Award finalist Cole Johnson (2-5) and Todd Miller (4-3) have spearhead­ed the effort. All three sen­iors have sub-3.00 ERAs, but a lack of run support has cost them wins throughout the course of the year. 
“I think it has been a very good season but I wish I had a few more wins, ” Dupra said. “I think we have some pieces of the puzzle to go for­ward and get going to make the season that much better. But it is just amazing pitch­ing Friday nights — that’s what you come here to do. It’s been awesome, and I’ll remember coming into games knowing that you’re going up against the best and having to bring your best as well.” 
Meanwhile, the Irish may have witnessed the birth of a future star in freshman first baseman Trey Mancini. The first-year slugger leads the Irish in nearly every offen­sive category going into the last week of the season, including batting average (.342), home runs (7) and RBI (28). 
The highlight of his year thus far came in a crucial 5­4 comeback win against Seton Hall May 1, when Mancini cleared the left field fence with a two-out, three-run home run to give the Irish the lead for good. 
“College baseball is a 55­game season, so you can’t get too down on yourself when you have one bad game,” the first baseman said after his game -winning blast. “You have just got to keep going, stay positive and wait for the right pitch to hit.” 
With a spot in the confer­ence tournament still up for grabs, the Irish will need to rely on timely hitting, an area Aoki has focused on all year. The squad will look to clinch a playoff berth when it ends the season with an away series against seventh-place Louisville starting May 19. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

ND advances to NCAAs 
conference tournament four of the past five years, put together a 6-0 semifinal win in front of their hometown crowd to put an end to Notre Dame’s dream of winning a Big East tournament title. 
“Obviously our pitching didn’t really help us out,” Clay said. “Louisville had a good offensive plan against our pitchers and unfortunately our bats weren’t working like they normally are, so that was to our disadvantage.” 
In spite of the unexpected loss, the Irish are looking ahead to the NCAA tournament, which begins this upcoming week with regional play. The team will look to rebound like it has all season. 
“[The loss] definitely lit the fire for us to get ready for regionals,” Clay said. “I’m anxious to see how we do. I really think we can pull it off this year.” 
Notre Dame begins NCAA tour­nament play May 20. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Slow start leads to first missed NCAA tourney since 2007 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Despite advancing to the Big East tournament championship game, Notre Dame failed to earn a berth in the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2007. 
“It’s really important to know that we need to work to earn our victories,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
The Irish (10-9, 6-2 Big East) still placed five players on the all-Big East teams, including senior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney. For Blaney, her selection to the first team marks the third year in a row she has earned the honor. Blaney, who led the Irish with 35 goals this season, was also named a second-teamer as a freshman. 
Joining Blaney on the first team are senior defender Jackie Doherty and junior attack Maggie Tamasitis. Doherty ranks third nationally with 2.42 caused turnovers per outing. She also scooped up a team-high 56 ground balls on her way to her second consecutive all-Big East selection. 
Meanwhile, the all-Big East selection was the first for Tamasitis. Tamasitis notched career highs in goals (21), assists 
(46) and points (67) while falling just two assists shy of the nation­al leader. Perhaps even more impressive, Tamasitis continued and extended her point streak to 37 games, the second longest streak in program history. 
Senior midfielder Kailene Abt and freshman midfielder Kaitlyn Brosco garnered second team honors for the Irish. Abt finished a stellar career by piling up 26 goals, 11 ground balls and 20 draw controls. 
Brosco, the first freshman to be named all-Big East since Blaney, racked up 32 goals and 8 assists in her rookie campaign. She fell three goals short of being the first freshman in program history to lead the squad in goals. 
The Irish faced a tough early schedule on their way to a 3-5 opening that included three one-goal losses. 
“The team had a lot of charac­ter. Losing can bring out the worst in teams but it brought out the best in us,” Coyne said. “We stayed together, stayed commit­ted and fought hard.” 
Notre Dame rebounded in con­ference play, ripping off a four-game win streak before being stopped by Loyola (Md.) in the Big East title game 12-10. Notre Dame also knocked off Big East regular-season champion Georgetown twice during the campaign on its way to a 10-win season for the sixth straight time. 
“[The best part of the year was] playing for a Big East champi­onship,” Coyne said. “Beating Georgetown at home on Senior Day was also a memorable expe­rience.” 
Notre Dame will wave goodbye to one of the most productive senior classes in the program’s history. The graduating class won a Big East title and featured two all-Americans in Blaney and Doherty. 
“[The seniors] are amazingly talented. They’ve played in two Big East championships and three NCAA tournaments,” Coyne said. “They have embraced the new talent that came while they were here.” 
Despite losing this group of players, the Irish look to rebound next year. Returning for Notre Dame are Tamasitis and Brosco, along with sophomore goalie Ellie Hilling and sophomore midfielder Jenny Granger. 


“We’re going to go back after a championship,” Coyne said. “We have a great recruiting class coming in and a lot of talent com­ing back. I’m going to miss these seniors a lot but we have to get right back to work.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish earn first No.1 ranking 
For a team that continues to Dame lacrosse — 60 minutes of 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
be a defensive power, the Irish good offense, smart transition 
Sports Writer 
displayed increased proficiency [and] communication on 
from the offensive end this sea-defense,” Irving said. “When 

After falling to Duke in the son. we don’t do that, we get in 2010 National Championship Led by the star power of close games.” game, the No. 4/5 Irish Brenneman and Earl, the Irish The losses have not affected returned stronger in 2011 and also benefited from the contri-Notre Dame’s confidence, and established themselves as one butions of a the Irish still of the nation’s elite teams. number of other a p p r e c i a t e 
Captained by senior midfield-goal scorers. how successful ers Zach Brenneman and David Senior attack their regular 
“I think this was

Earl, senior long stick midfield-Sean Rogers season was. er Andrew Irving and senior leads the team obviously a successful “I think this defense Kevin Ridgway, Notre with 17 goals, regular season.” was obviously Dame (10-2, 5-1 Big East) and senior a successful entered the season ranked in attack Colin regular sea-
David Earl 

the top 10. After rattling off Igoe, freshman son,” Earl nine straight wins, the Irish attack Westy Irish midfelder said. “We fin-gained control of the top spot in Hopkins, junior ished fourth college lacrosse on April 18 for midfield Max and got a the first time in program histo-Pfeifer and soph-home seed so ry. omore attack Ryan Foley have we are happy and excited 
The road to No. 1 began with all reached double-digit points about that.” Notre Dame’s 12-7 win over this season. Throughout the course of the then No. 5 Duke, after which Despite their offensive depth, regular season, Notre Dame the Irish continued to capture the Irish have struggled at faced off against six opponents victory after victory, running times to convert on scoring currently ranked in NCAA their record to 10-0 by late opportunities and put the ball Men’s Lacrosse RPI Top 25, April. During that stretch, in the net. four of which reside in the top Notre Dame ranked first in “There are times when [the 10. Their challenging regular scoring defense as they held offense] has been [better than season has helped the Irish opponents to under six goals last year] and times when it prepare for the upcoming per game. The Irish defense hasn’t, but I think overall, NCAA Championship that led last we’ve got Tournament, Ridgway said. year’s title run more diversity “I think we have battled all continued to in our offense season and we put together 10 dominate despite this year … so good games early on,” he said. having lost two-that certainly “I feel we are prepared to go 
“I think we have
time All makes us into the tourney with the idea American and battled all season and more danger-of ‘it’s win or don’t come back Most Outstanding we put together 10 ous,” Corrigan tomorrow.’ If the regular sea-Player of the said. son taught us anything, it is to 
good games early on.” 
2010 NCAA Their versa-come to practice every day with Championship tility on the idea of getting better.” Scott Rodgers. Kevin Ridgway offense wasn’t Notre Dame earned the No. 4 
Stepping in Irish defender enough to seed in the tournament and will between the extend their host unseeded Penn (8-6, 4-2 pipes for Rodgers u n d e f e a t e d Ivy League) in its first round was sophomore record past 10 game scheduled for Saturday, John Kemp, who games, as the May 14, at 2:30 p.m. has maintained a .607 save Irish finished the year with two Also on the horizon for the percentage. straight losses: 8-11 at the Irish is the June 2 announce­
“[Kemp]’s been great all year; hands of No. 1 Syracuse (14-1, ment of the Tewaaraton I don’t think he’s had a bad 6-0) and 8-9 (OT) to No. 10 Trophy, college lacrosse’s play-game,” Irish coach Kevin North Carolina (10-5, 1-2 ACC). er of the year award. Corrigan said. “I think he’s The losses served as jarring Brenneman, Earl and Ridgway done a great job, he’s grown as reminders that the Irish will are among the 25 nominees for a leader through the year and have to bring their best to the the award. he’s done a great job of stop-table against the country’s ping the ball and handling him-other top teams. Contact Joseph Monardo at self well in the clearing game.” “We just didn’t play Notre jmonardo@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish enjoy magical run to championship game 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
The 2010-11 season was expected to be a transition year for the Irish — the pro­gram graduated three of its top five scorers in 2010, and was depending on a few inex­perienced players to emerge in more prominent roles. 
After a regular season in which they were consistently ranked in the top-10 followed by an appearance in the Big East tournament champi­onship, the Irish went on a run to the NCAA championship game with signature victories over Tennessee and Connecticut on the way. 
Not bad for a transition year. 
“It was an amazing run,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “The team really exceed­ed expectations of anyone. We were ranked No. 9 or No. 10 before the Final Four run. The team had an incredible drive to succeed.” 
The Final Four victory over Connecticut, which advanced Notre Dame (31-8, 13-3 Big East) to its second ever national championship appearance was a defining moment for the team’s campaign . 
The victory was especially important for the team, as the program was 0-20 all-time against the Volunteers and their legendary coach, Pat Summitt. The performance transformed a team that was previously regarded as very talented, but not elite, and propelled it into the upper echelon. 
Irish sophomore guard Skylar Diggins sparked Notre Dame throughout the tourna­ment. She became the team’s primary point guard this sea­son after an impressive fresh­man year. 
The South Bend native scored 24 points in the win over Tennessee, a season-high 28 in the winning effort against Connecticut and con­cluded her tournament run with 23 in the title game loss to Texas A&M. 
“She played big on the big stage,” McGraw said. “She really did great and handled herself with poise, had tremendous will to win — she was not going to lose. She pushed herself, scored a lot of points, made good decisions and led us a long way.” 
The nation took notice of Diggins’ efforts, as the sopho­
more stole the 
spotlight from 
Connecticut ’s 

The 72-63 Maya Moore and 
“It was an amazing
victory elimi-became a house­nated the run. The team really hold name. She Huskies and exceeded expectations was honored as a sent the Irish member of the 
of anyone.” 
to their first all -tournament national team after the champi-Muffet McGraw championship onship berth Irish coach game and will be in 10 years. on everyone’s 
“I think it short list for was the feel-national player of ing of ‘finally we did it’ after the year when the season beating Connecticut,” McGraw begins in the fall. said. “After losing to “In a way I’m just living the [Connecticut] three times, [the dream,” Diggins said during players] went in believing they the tournament run. could win, just like they did in Notre Dame succeeded in the Tennessee game.” the tournament against con-
The Irish had advanced to secutive No. 1 seeds, largely the Final Four with a 73-59 due to the daunting regular win over Tennessee March 28. season schedule it encoun-tered. The Irish lost three the contest, leading to fresh-great things for us off the close non-conference games in man forward Natalie bench. You could see she was-the regular season to strong Achonwa’s departure with five n’t intimidated. Overall I was opponents — an 86-83 loss in fouls. Senior forward really pleased with the way two overtimes D e v e r e a u x she played.” to UCLA Nov. Peters missed Peters’ durability was in 18, an 81 -76 “[Diggins] played big crucial minutes question at the start of the loss to No. 9 on the big stage. She down the season because of past diffi-Kentucky Nov. s t r e t c h culties with injuries. The sen-


really did great and
21 and a 76-65 because she ior, who will return next year 
handled herself with
loss to No. 2 was in foul as she has one year of eligibil-Baylor Dec. 1 poise, had tremendous trouble as well. ity remaining, responded by that was more Aggies guard playing in every game this 
will to win — she was 
c o m p e t i t i v e Tyra White season and anchoring the 
not going to lose.” 
than the score sank a 3-point-stout Irish defense. She was indicates. er with two honored with Big East defen-
In Big East Muffet McGraw seconds left on sive player of the year award regular season the shot clock at the conference tournament 
Irish coach
play, the Irish and 1:07 left in in March. One of her best only lost three the game to games came in the national times — twice to two-time put Texas A&M up by five. championship appearance, defending national champion “That was a knife right in when she scored 21 points and Connecticut and once in the my heart. That was the recorded 11 rebounds in the regular season finale to No. 12 game,” McGraw said after the loss. DePaul, 70-69. game. “It was an unbelievable The berth in the national 
Not only did the Irish shot.” championship game came on redeem themselves against Senior forward Becca the 10-year anniversary of the Connecticut, but they also Bruszewski program’s only avenged the DePaul loss by will be the championship beating the Blue Demons in squad’s only win and three the Big East tournament semi-departure “[The team] always months prior to finals, 71-67 March 7. With heading into continued to fght and McGraw’s induc­both teams consistently among next season. tion into the 
had some great lead-

the best in the Big East and She served as W o m e n ’ s their recent matchups being the team’s ership because of Basketball Hall so competitive, Diggins e m o t i o n a l [Bruszewski]. Everyone of Fame. thought the win meant even leader and With most of 
rose to the occasion.” 

more to the squad because of captain and the team the budding rivalry. will be diffi-r e m a i n i n g 
“Their being close to us and cult to Muffet McGraw intact, the addi­being such a good team — we replace. Irish coach tion of a strong know when we play them it’s “[The team] incoming fresh-going to be competitive,” she always con-man class and said. “We’ve got players from tinued to fight the possible [Chicago] … so it’s just a com-and had some great leader-return of freshman guard petitive game and everyone’s ship because of Becca,” Kayla McBride, who missed going to be up for that game.” McGraw said. “Everyone rose most of the season due to per-
The special run by the Irish to the occasion. It was a fun sonal reasons but is expected ended in the championship season and a great group.” to rejoin the squad, Notre game April 5 at the hands of Achonwa will replace Dame is poised to make yet Texas A&M, 76-70. Aggies for-Bruszewski, having emerged another tournament run in ward Danielle Adams proved during her freshman year as a 2012. to be too much for the Irish to low-post presence and impor-“The last loss will motivate handle, scoring 30 points and tant contributor, especially us through the summer — we recording nine rebounds. down the stretch. will have a renewed energy 
“We did not find an answer “I thought she had a great and be more determined,” for her,” McGraw said. “She’s tournament,” McGraw said of McGraw said. “Our goal will just a great player. She’s got a her freshman forward at the be to win the national champi­big body, we couldn’t get Big East tournament. “I onship in 2012.” around her.” thought she could’ve been on 
Adams’ physical presence the all -tournament team Contact Andrew Owens at drew several fouls throughout because she just did so many aowens2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Program earns third national championship 
team before the fervor of momentum. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 

winning a championship had “We had reached a point 
Assistant Managing Editor 

even subsided. in the season where we 
“That was really interest-weren’t necessarily playing 
Notre Dame finished the ing, because I think it really as well as we hoped, and we 2010 season in champi -did start that quick, ” needed time to change onship form, capturing the Waldrum said. “We enjoyed things if we wanted to come program ’s third national the moment for all of us back and win a champi ­title, and their second under being the first [in 2004]. I onship,” senior goalkeeper Irish coach Randy Waldrum. don ’t recall any of those Nikki Weiss said. 
While a lone victory in kinds of conversations com-The loss to Connecticut early December will do little ing back from ‘04.” capped a five-game stretch to dictate the outcome of the Notre Dame’s quest for the that included two ties, and 2011 campaign, junior College Cup began in the Waldrum admitted a signifi­defender Jessica Schuveiller spring of 2010, as Waldrum cant change had to be made believes the desire for a rallied his players through to set the Irish back on c o n s e c u t i v e sprints, drills course. title will pre -and more “There ’s no doubt [the vent any Irish sprints. While loss] was a turning point,” player from “Now, having won and the domi -he said. “Why certain things sitting on her nance of fell the way they did, I don’t 
knowing the feeling of
laurels. Henderson at know that I could put my “We know what it’s like to be part the front was finger on all of it. After that what it ’s like of a championship a certainty, happened, that just made us to not finish questions still realize that we finally do 
team, that is 
first and not remained have two weeks if we are finish on top,” motivation in itself.” heading into going to make a move.” Schuveill er the regular So with just two weeks of said. “Now, s e a s o n , practice remaining before 
Jessica Schuveiller 
having won including a the first round of the tour-
junior defender
and knowing gaping hole nament, Waldrum moved the feeling of created by a senior Lauren Fowlkes to what it ’s like s i d e l i n e d the midfield position, bring-to be part of a championship Courtney Barg at the mid-ing junior Molly Campbell team, that is motivation in field position. back into a defensive role. itself.” Like all championship-cal-“I don’t ever recall having 
While most teams wait iber teams, a number of made a move like that in the until the preseason to begin players stepped up to the 20 -something years I’ve shifting the focus from cele-challenge, but none moreso been coaching, because brating a championship to than freshman Elizabeth that ’s a position that’s so preparing for another run, Tucker. Tabbed by Waldrum hard — to pull somebody out junior forward and 2011 to fill in the hole left by of the middle of your Honda Sports Award winner Barg, the rookie finished defense late in the season Melissa Henderson said the with nine goals and three and bring somebody else adjustment began on the assists, exceeding the expec-in,” Waldrum said. trip back to campus. tations of teammates and “Two things had to happen 
“I remember driving on coaches alike. to make that work. One is the bus and talking with a “[Waldrum] is one of the that we were willing, since couple of the girls on our greatest we ’ve tied two way to the airport, ” coaches in games and lost Henderson said. “We just the coun -a game in the kind of looked at each other t r y , ” past five, we 
“[Waldrum] is one of 
and it was just like, ‘This is Schuveiller might as well probably the greatest feeling said. “We the greatest coaches try and score I’ve had in my life.’ After trust his more goals and 
in the country. We 
that, we [said,] ‘Let’s do it decisions.” win the games 
trust his decisions.” 
again, let’s make it happen B u t in the playoffs, again.’” Waldrum ’s even if it means 
Waldrum added that biggest deci-Jessica Schuveiller we ’re going to unlike his first national sion did not be a little bit 
junior defender
championship team in 2004, come until shaky in the the current squad immedi-the final two back … The ately set its sights on a weeks pre -other big piece repeat run. The desire to ceding the that a lot of peo­become only the second NCAA tournament. After a ple don’t talk about is how women’s soccer program to 2-0 upset at the hands of well Molly Campbell came in win consecutive national Connecticut on Oct. 31 elim-and played in that last championships and the first inated the Irish prematurely stretch.” since North Carolina accom-from the Big East champi-As evidenced by Notre plished the feat from 2008 onships, Notre Dame found Dame’s flawless 6-0 record to 2009 took hold of the itself on the wrong side of in the NCAA tournament, front, and it just didn’t look time you think about it and the same,” Waldrum said. you’re excited about on a “Lauren had to bring back a daily basis. I think there’s scoring presence, which she no better thing in a college did, and Molly had to at career. I’m so fortunate to least be consistent in the have been able to do that back, which she was. It just and be a part of such a changed the mindset. great team. It’s amazing. It’s Training from then on out still hard to put into words.” was amazing.” While Notre Dame will lose 

t r u s t i n m a d e c h a n g e e v e n t u a l  h i m t h e t h e s u c - “I think it’s something that kind of gives you the chills every time  6 3 m i n u t e s into the game g a v e N o t r e Dame its first  
cess it was. “ We h a d a c t u a l l y t r i e d M o l l y d u r i n g  you think about it and you’re excited about it on a daily basis.”  t i t l e s i n c e 2004. “ I t ’s s u n k i n , I t h i n k , ”  
p r e s e a s o n  Fowlkes said.  
b a c k t h e r e because I was t h i n k i n g w e  Lauren Fowlkes senior midfelder  “ I t h i n k i t ’s s o m e t h i n g t h a t k i n d o f  
m i g h t  n e e d  gives you the  
L a u r e n  u p  c h i l l s  e v e r y  

Handed a four-seed by the a core of seniors that selection committee, Notre includes Fowlkes, Weiss, Dame defeated New Mexico forward Rose Augustin, for-and USC in the first two ward Erica Iantorno and rounds of the tournament defender Julie Scheilder, with scores of 3-0 and 4-0 Waldrum believes the 2011 respectively. The Irish then roster will feature just as travelled to North Carolina much talent as this year’s. A to face the most decorated talented incoming class cou­program in women’s soccer, pled with the momentum of where they dismantled their winning a national title heated rival 4-1. should position the Irish 
Before heading to Cary, well for a repeat run. 
N.C., for the College Cup, “What I’ve learned over the Irish blanked Oklahoma the years is that you don’t State 2-0 in front of a hos-really replace those kids,” tile crowd of 2,660 fans. Waldrum said. “You’ve just Suddenly, Notre Dame had got a new group that comes gone from the upstart No. 4 in. They now have to come seed to a legitimate title in and fill the role, and I contender. think there’s enough talent 
“I don’t know how to pin-coming back that — we’ve point it or why it got so been doing this a long time good, if it was just a realiza-— we’ll be talented enough tion for everybody that one to make another run at it.” more game that we lose and we’re done, or if it was the Contact Chris Masoud at seeds that came out and the cmasoud@nd.edu 


the gutsy  move  was  a  com­ 
plete success.  
Prior  to  the position  rota­ 

tion, Waldrum had experi­mented with a similar lineup in the preseason, but met challenges. Nevertheless, Waldrum’s faith in his play­ers and their unwavering kids got [upset] about it,” Waldrum said. 
With a renewed focus, the Irish took down Ohio State 1-0 to set up a match with the top -ranked Stanford Cardinals for the collegiate soccer crown. A goal by freshman Adriana Leon 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles complete best season in team history 

By JOSEPH WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Although the Belles did not finish the season they way they wanted to, the 2010-11 season will go down as a landmark season for the program and one of the best in its history. 
The team was led by a trifec­ta of juniors in forward Kelley Murphy, guard Patsy Mahoney and guard Maggie Ronan. Each averaged over 10 points per game, and Murphy led the way with 15.5 points per game. Murphy was also a force on the glass, averaging nearly 10 rebounds per game. 
“We accomplished a lot this season,” Murphy said. “We broke individual records in steals and scoring, as well as accomplished team goals. We broke the school’s record for most wins in [a] season with 18.” 
The Belles started the season strong with four straight wins, including victories over Aurora and North Central to claim the North Central Tournament title. 
Despite losing three of the first five conference games, the Belles rallied to finish in the top three in the conference with an 18-8 record, with 11 of those wins coming in the MIAA. 
Belles coach Jennifer Henley explained this season’s signifi­cance for the Belles, adding that this year’s success could lay the foundation for future achievements. 
Swarbrick 
continued from page 40 
set of assets than Texas. 
“[Texas’s plan] is based on the remarkable passion for that school in a geographic area, so it fits over a cable footprint. I have interest everywhere, but not a concentration of it in one place.” 
Thus, while Swarbrick has plans for a potential Notre Dame-only network, he must first wait on the development of certain pieces of technology. 
“Our opportunities will really come as broadband delivery increases and as [younger demo­graphics] are consuming media on a more content-by-content basis rather than a network basis,” he said. “So as those two things evolve, that’s really going to play to Notre Dame’s favor.” 
In the meantime, Swarbrick said the creation of stations like Texas’s, the Big Ten Network or the incipient Pac-12 Network led to stabilizing the college football landscape. 
“When you get conferences whose members are also equity partners in a media company, it changes the dynamic complete­ly,” he said. “So you get those two cornerstones of the industry (the Big Ten and the Pac 12) who are going to be very set … They will be very stable. With two large conferences reflecting that level of stability, I don’t think there’s enough of a dynamic to cause major change.” 
Football schedules get tough 
As a result of his confidence in conference stability, Swarbrick 

“We just finished the most successful season in history with our basketball program,” Henley said. “We had three players named to the all-con­ference team.” 
The Belles’ season ended prematurely with a loss to Trine in the first round of the MIAA tournament, but Murphy does not think that should overshadow the team’s suc­cessful season. 
“Our season ended with an unexpected upset, but we are not going to let that define our 2010-2011 season,” Murphy said. 
Both Murphy and Henley plan to use the success of the past year as a springboard for the 2011-12 season. 
“We are approaching next season strong with experience and a talented incoming class,” Murphy said. “We look forward to picking up right where we left off to build on all of our successes accomplished this season.” 
Henley also has high expec­tations for next season. 
“Getting upset by Trine in the MIAA conference tournament was not the way to end the season, so we are looking for­ward to making another run next year,” Henley said. “We return one of the most talented groups since I have been a part of the program. I think we have the potential to do many great things for the 2011-2012 season.” 
Contact Joseph Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
sees a stiff challenge for Irish coach Brian Kelly and Notre Dame football. 
“It’s really incumbent on Notre Dame to be able to make the case at the end of the year that it’s played the toughest schedule in the country,” he said. “There will be a strong presumption in favor of the [Bowl Championship Series conference champions.] 
“If we want to be there, we bet­ter be able to make that argu­ment that no one in the country played a tougher schedule, and so that’s how we’re going to build them.” 
For example, the 2012 sched­ule includes a game against Navy in Dublin, Ireland, as well as match-ups with Miami, USC, Stanford, Michigan, Michigan State, Pittsburgh,BYU and Oklahoma. 
“Who formed that schedule?” Swarbrick joked. “Who did that? You know, that year is especially challenging, but it’ll be represen­tative of the future.” 
Swarbrick hopes to unveil that future soon. 
“I hope to have the schedule out through 2017 before we start the fall season,” he said. “There may be a piece or two missing, but we’re pretty close.” 
He expects that future to reflect the recent past, though he noted he may not ever see a year like this one again. 
“Every year is its own story,” Swarbrick said. “[I feel like] a proud parent.” 
Sports Editor Allan Joseph con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Irish reclaim national crown 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 

Following a close defeat to Penn State at the 2010 NCAA championships, the 18 Irish sen­ior fencers set a goal in the off­season — get back to the champi­onship match, but this time win it. 
Ranked No. 1 in the country from the beginning of the year, the Irish throttled the competition at the Temple Open in Philadelphia, the first match of the year, and never looked back en route to winning the eighth team championship in Notre Dame history and its first since 2005. 
Though the Irish were favorites from the beginning, they faced plenty of adversity along the way, the most serious being the loss of top men’s fencer junior Gerek Meinhardt to injury during a training session in December. Just the month before, Meinhardt took bronze at the World Championships in Paris, the best result in American foil in the his­tory of the discipline. 
“Gerek is truly a world-class fencer,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “To lose him was definitely a great loss, but this was a great team with great cap­tains and great coaches. One may have been lost, but the team was still fighting. Meinhardt’s injury really mobilized the team.” 
Faced with losing his top fencer for three months, Bednarski attributed his team’s resiliency to the leadership of his seniors, who kept the group on an even keel despite the immense pressure associated with being national championship favorites. 
“The pressure was great because of our No. 1 ranking, but also because recently we have always seemed to finish second or third,” Bednarski said. “These seniors were competing for the last time. There was so much devotion. We will be losing a lot of great fencers.” 
The Irish cruised through the NCAA regional, qualifying the maximum 12 fencers in each dis­cipline and earning a berth in the NCAA championships at Ohio State. Once there, both the men’s and women’s teams held off familiar foe Penn State to easily take the team title. In addition, junior Courtney Hurley won the women’s individual epee title. 
“These teams handled the pressure so well all year, and I really attribute that to the sen­iors,” Bednarski said. “They had a lot of experience, and it showed.” 
The challenge to replace the outgoing seniors, including a number of All-Americans, will be made all the harder by the departure of at least four Irish fencers next year as they train for and compete in Olympic qualify­ing competitions. They will return the following year in spite of qualifying conflicts with NCAA competition, but for one year at least the Irish will have to do without their services. 
“Losing those fencers to Olympic competition will certain­ly present a challenge to us, but as evidenced by our freshmen this year, we have every confi­dence in our ability to reload,” Bednarski said. “We expect to compete next year.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL 

Late-season surge highlights Kelly’s first year 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
After opening his Notre Dame career with an 8-5 sea­son and a bowl victory, all Irish coach Brian Kelly could talk about was year two. 
“We still have more things that we have to get done, especially now that we’re going to have our players for a full year of weight training and conditioning,” Kelly said after Notre Dame topped Miami 33-17 in the Dec. 31 Sun Bowl to close the times I wasn’t certain if we were going to get lined up for stretching today the right way.” 
The Irish not only lined up and stretched properly, but also executed both offensively and defensively, jumping to a 20-3 lead heading into the fourth quarter. Junior quar­terback Dayne Crist complet­ed 19 of 26 passes for 205 yards and a touchdown, and the Notre Dame running game tallied 153 yards. 
Following the encouraging 
win, the Irish 
dipped into a bit 
of a tailspin, los­
ing the next 

s e a s o n . “You’re going t o s e e a b i g  “You’re going to see a huge difference in year  three games: 28­24 to Michigan, 3 4 -3 1 i n o v e r - 
j u m p  f r o m  two.”  time at Michigan  
o u r  f o o t b a l l  State and 37-14  
t e a m , r e l a -tive to their work volume  Brian Kelly Irish coach  to Stanford. “ Wh at d o yo u believe in after a  
a n d  w h a t  lo ss l i k e t his ?”  
they’re able  K e l l y  s a i d  f o l - 
to do for  us.  lowing the  over­ 
You’re going  t i m e  d e f e a t  b y  

to see a huge difference in the Spartans Sept. 18. “Do year two.” you believe in your team ­
Irish fans saw a “huge dif-mates, do you believe in your ference” in year one, though, coaches, do you believe in the as Kelly snapped an eight-preparation? If you do, you’ll year losing streak to Southern come back and we’ll work California, beat a ranked harder and we’ll continue to opponent for the first time in work to get better. Notre Dame’s last 11 attempts “If you don’t believe, then and won a New Year’s Eve these are times when you bowl game. start to see teams pull apart. 
Kelly’s first “first” came in So, it’s all about belief at this September with his first vic-point.” tory coaching Notre Dame, a The losses to Michigan and 23-12 win over Purdue Sept. Michigan State certainly chal­
4. lenged Irish fans’ belief, both 
“[It was a] good way to start coming in last-minute, heart-the season, obviously,” Kelly wrenching form. said following his debut. After Wolverines quarter­“There’s a lot of firsts here back Denard Robinson tor-today: first walk from the tured the Notre Dame defense Basilica, first pep rally. all afternoon — finishing with There’s a lot going on. At 502 total yards — Crist and junior tight end Kyle Rudolph linked up for a dramatic 95­yard touchdown with less than four minutes remaining to give Notre Dame its first lead of the day. The scamper proved costly, as Rudolph injured his hamstring, effec­tively ending his season — and his college career. Rudolph later declared for the NFL draft, and the Minnesota Vikings selected him in the second round. 


The biggest play of Rudolph’s college career was quickly forgotten, though, as Robinson unflinchingly put together a 72-yard drive in only 3:14 to retake the lead and the game, with only 27 seconds remaining. 
A week later, Michigan State and Notre Dame traded touchdowns for four quarters before Irish senior kicker David Ruffer gave Notre Dame a three-point lead in overtime. A few minutes later, the Spartans lined up for a field goal of their own, only to instead fake it, running a play known as “Little Giants,” for a 29-yard touchdown. 
During the slugfest, Crist threw 55 passes, completing 32 of them for 369 yards and four touchdowns, while Michigan State tallied 203 total rushing yards. 
“I think [the offense took another step this week],” Crist said. “I think that when we watch it tomorrow, that will be one of the positives. But we’re always going to look back and think, ‘What if we made a play here or there, or executed a little better, what would have happened?’” 
To close September, Notre Dame took a few steps back­ward, at one point trailing Stanford 34-6. 
“Stanford deserved today’s win,” Kelly said. “That is a fine football team.” 
After the thorough disap­pointment dropped the Irish to 1-3, the tide turned, to the tune of a three-game winning streak: 31 -13 at Boston College, 23 -17 over Pittsburgh and 44-20 against Western Michigan. 
“Happy. Happy, happy, happy,” Kelly said following the Boston College victory. “Everybody’s happy in Notre Dame land. Our boys wanted to win badly. They worked hard at it, and I’m happy that they got a win … We’re not there yet, but we’re going to keep working every day and continue to work on those things to get better.” 
The Irish defense held the Eagles to a total of five rush­ing yards, while forcing two turnovers and 12 Boston College penalties. Yet, Kelly wanted more out of his team. 
“Mental and physical tough­ness, we have to do it,” he said. “That’s our weakness right now … It’s got to be tended to immediately, and our guys are understanding that, and we’ll continue to build it.” 
Continue to build it they did, hardly struggling with the Panthers and rolling right by the Broncos. 
“This team was 1-3,” Kelly said after raising the Irish record to 4-3. “When we talked about that at that which closed with a four-game winning streak: 28-3 over No. 15 Utah, 27-3 over Army at Yankee Stadium in New York City, 20-16 at USC and 33-17 in the bowl game. 
Each win seemed to exor­cise another demon for the Irish, both for the fans and for the team. 
“The senior students need­ed it as much as the senior student -athletes did,” Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said in May. “On the individual, personal level, I felt so good for the young men who had worked so hard.” 
The victory over the Trojans flipped the script from early in the season, as Notre Dame scored late and held off a last-minute push, earning the win. 
Senior running back Robert Hughes broke into the end 
zone with 2:23 
left, and sen­
ior safety 
Harrison 
time, you can Smith sealed 
“It’s great for the 
go in one of two the win with directions at 1-seniors to go out with an intercep ­
3. You can fall a win over USC.” tion in the off the cliff and final seconds. have a disas -“I don’t 
Tommy Rees 
trous season or think words you can work Irish quarterback do it justice. toward9-3.” Everyone’s 
W o r k i n g ecstatic,” toward 9-3 freshman became a quarterback dream rather than a reality Tommy Rees said after throw-one week later, as Navy gave ing for two touchdowns in the Notre Dame a clinic on the win. “It’s great for the seniors triple option en route to a 35-to go out with a win over 17 victory at the New USC. Words can’t describe Meadowlands Stadium in East how everyone’s feeling right Rutherford, N.J. now.” 
The Midshipmen ended the Rees carried his three-game day with 373 rushing yards starting streak and winning on 60 carries, led by fullback streak to El Paso, Texas, to Alexander Teich with 210. face Miami in the Sun Bowl. Quarterback Ricky Dobbs When he left for New Year’s, added 90, and only attempted he and the Irish had ended two passes, completing both the season with a four-game for a total of 71 yards, includ-winning streak for the first ing a 31 yard touchdown to time since 1992. Teich. “Clearly, we’re gaining a lot 
To close October, Notre of confidence,” Kelly said. Dame fell to Tulsa 28-27, and “Miami is a good football suffered perhaps an even team. We’ ve beaten some tougher loss as Crist tore his good football teams later on ACL and joined Rudolph on in the year as we’ve kind of the sideline for the rest of the come together and found our season. identity.” 
But that would be the last of the losses for Notre Dame in Contact Douglas Farmer at Kelly ’s inaugural season, dfarmer1@nd.edu 

FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 20, 2011 The top 10 Observer sports stories from the 2007-2011 academic years page 34 
1 Weis fired after five seasons; Kelly hired 

After leading Notre Dame to the most losses in a three-year span, Charlie Weis was fired on Nov. 30, 2009, and a mere 11 days later, Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick named Brian Kelly as the 29th foot­ball coach in Notre Dame history. 
Weis held the reins to the football program for five years, accumulating an overall record of 35-27. After going 9-3 in his first season and earning an appearance in the Fiesta Bowl, Weis was granted a 10-year contract extension through 2015. 
December 1, 2009; December 12, 2009 
Nonetheless, two home losses to Navy and consecutive Senior Day defeats to Syracuse and Connecticut spelled the end of the Weis’ time leading his alma mater. 
A secretive coaching search result­ed in the hiring of Kelly, who was-fresh off an undefeated regular sea­son at Cincinnati in his third year with the Bearcats. 
Previously, Kelly was the head coach at Central Michigan for three seasons, leading the Chippewas to a Mid-American Conference in 2006. 
Kelly began his head coaching career at Division II Grand Valley State, tal­lying a 118-35-2 record over 13 sea­sons. 
Kelly’s first season had its highs and lows. Though the Irish dropped heartbreaking losses to Michigan, Michigan State, and Tulsa, Notre Dame closed the season on a four-game winning streak. The defense led the Irish past No. 15 Utah on Senior Day, Army in Yankee Stadium, USC in Los Angeles and Miami in the Sun Bowl to close the season. 

Football finally2 defeats USC Notre Dame capped a difficult season by snapping an eight-year losing streak to USC with a 20-16 vic­tory over the Trojans in Los Angeles. The rivalry win did not come without drama, as senior Harrison Smith inter­cepted a Mitch Mustain pass on the Irish one-yard line in the last minutes to seal the long-awaited win.  3  Women’s hoops falls just short After a scintillating tournament run that included a historic Elite Eight victory over Tennessee and a Final Four win over peren­nial power Connecticut, the Irish fell just short of the national champi­onship. Notre Dame lost to Texas A&M 76­70 in front of thou­sands of Irish fans who made the short trip to Conseco Fieldhouse in  Women’s soccer 4 wins national title After four consecutive trips to the College Cup without a title, the Irish finally broke through with a 1-0 victory over previously undefeated Stanford. Notre Dame raced through the NCAA tour­nament on the strength of its freshmen, who scored the last four goals of the season and helped shut down even­tual Hermann Trophy winner Christen Press in the title game.  
Nov. 27, 2010  April 5, 2011  Dec. 5, 2010  
Hockey reaches 5 two Frozen Fours The Irish reached the first Frozen Four in program history in 2008, falling in the national title game. The freshmen on that squad were seniors on the team that reached the 2011 Frozen Four; the sen­iors shepherded an exceptionally young team (loaded with 12 freshmen) to another Frozen Four berth, capping their record-setting careers.  6  Swarbrick takes over AD position On June 1, 2008, Kevin White, then-director of athletics, announced that he would be leaving Notre Dame to assume the same position at Duke. Six weeks later, Swarbrick was hired as the 12th athletic director in the school’s history. He was previously a lawyer instrumental in the Indianapolis sports scene.  Men’s lacrosse 7 reaches title game Despite being unseeded in the NCAA tournament, Notre Dame rode a stalwart defense through seeded teams to a berth in the championship game. The Irish and Blue Devils played the low­est-scoring title game in NCAA history, finish­ing regulation tied at 5. The Irish gave up an early goal in overtime but were proud of their historic run to the title game.  
April 7, 2011  July 16, 2008  May 31, 2010  
Fencing reclaims 8 national title After two second-p l a c e f i n i s h e s t o P e n n S t a t e i n t h e past two years, the Irish overcame the loss of junior foilist a n d t e a m l e a d e r Gerek Meinhardt to earn the program’s f i r s t n a t i o n a l t i t l e since 2005. The championship was the eighth such title in program his-to ry a n d t he t h i r d under coach Janusz Bednarski.  9  Men’s hoops earns No. 2 seed Notre Dame fol­lowed up a 2010 tournament appear­ance with one of the best seasons in pro­gram history, high­lighted by a 56-51 victory at No. 2 Pittsburgh Jan. 24. S e n i o r B e n Hansbrough earned Big East Player of the Year honors, and coach Mike Brey earned conference Coach of the Year accolades.  New facilities10 constructed After hosting Irish athletic events for over 40 years, the south dome of the Joyce Center received a reno­vation in the summer of 2009 and reopened in October as the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. New facilities for lacrosse, soccer, track, softball and hockey were also completed in the past two years or are currently in the works.  
March 27, 2010  March 17, 2011  Oct. 6, 2006  





Notre Dame: 
Senior Jackson finishes in top 100 in NCAA cross-country race; diver Lex secures school record from 3-meter 
Observer Staff Report 
Cross Country 
Nov. 22, 2010 marked the offi­cial end of a career for 13 seniors. While many of them would contin­ue to compete in track during the winter and spring months, their time as long-distance racers came to an end. 
The men finalized their season at the NCAA championships, tak­ing 25th overall. Dan Jackson, the only senior in the championship meet, crossed the line in 100th place. 
“I am most proud of helping lead the team to a 25th place fin­ish at the NCAA national champi­onships [after] beginning the sea­son unranked,” Jackson said. “I have never been part of a team that trained so hard and was focused so much on a single goal.” 
Prior to that final day, Jackson earned a fourth-place finish and all-region honors at the NCAA Midwest regional, where the men took third. Senior Mat Abernathy contributed a 139th place finish for the Irish, crossing the line for the last time. 
The women earned sixth place, as senior Erica Watson took 45th in her last race. 
“One of my favorite memories is lining up to race the Regionals meet, and hearing the reverberat­ing cheers exploding from our kilt­and-face-paint-wearing cheering section,” Watson said. 
Both teams began the season with first place finishes at the Valparaiso Crusader Open Sept. 3, where Irish senior Paul Springer took first place, followed immedi­ately by senior Thomas Noel in second. 
The Big East championships also highlighted the season, where the men finished fifth and the women sixth. Jackson earned his first all-Big East honor, notching a 12th place finish. Other seniors competing in the meet included Abernathy, who came in 53rd, and Ryan Gamboa, who took 69th. On the women’s side, Watson took 33rd, joined by fellow senior Theresa Cattuna, who came in 64th. 
“I was watching the O.S.C.A.R.S. highlight video a few days ago, and I started getting teary when I saw the clips of our team-racing together, praying together and cel­ebrating together,” Watson said. 
The Irish say goodbye to nine seniors on the men’s side and four on the women’s. Leaving the men are Abernathy, Carter, Jackson, Gamboa, Noel and Springer, along with Kyle Higdon, Ryan Jacobs and Kevin Labus, who mainly run relays for track. The women bid farewell to Cattuna and Watson, along with Abby Higgins and Marissa Treece, both of whom pri­marily trained as middle-distance track runners. 
Men’s Swimming 
Success manifested itself in the form of records, individual titles and annual awards for the Irish this year, but not in the form of a team title at the Big East champi­onships. 
Despite falling short of the team title, the Irish (6-4) exhibited a level of talent and an ability to improve that bodes well for future years. 
“I think overall we had a great season in terms of progression,” senior diver Eric Lex said. “The coaches’ goal was to have two years progression in one year, and I think we definitely accomplished that.” 
Under Irish coach Tim Welsh, Notre Dame had considerable suc­cess in the regular season, the highlight of which came on the final day at the Shamrock Invitational. In his final home meet, Lex secured first place and the school record from the 3­meter board by surpassing the 400-point mark for the first time in Notre Dame history. 
Two weeks later, Lex highlighted what was a dominating perform­ance by the Irish at the Big East Diving championships by taking first place in the 1-meter event. Senior Nathan Geary led the pack from the 3-meter board en route to a Notre Dame sweep of the div­ing portion of the meet. Lex was named the Big East’s Most Outstanding Diver, and Irish diving coach Caiming Xie earned the Big East Men’s Diving Coach of the Year award for the eighth time in his career. 
In the swimming portion of the conference championships that followed, Notre Dame posted six new school records, but could not maintain a lead and finished sec­ond behind defending champion Louisville. 
Freshman Frank Dyer captured the individual Big East title in the 500-yard freestyle with the best time in conference history before becoming only the second Notre Dame swimmer to ever compete in the NCAA championships. Dyer swam the 100, 200 and 500-yard freestyles, coming in 26th in the 200-yard freestyle, the highest fin­ish ever for an Irish swimmer at the national meet. 
The combination of returning veterans and talented underclass­men should raise expectations next season, senior swimmer Michael Sullivan said. 
“We have great leadership and talent in place to make sure the team keeps improving, and although it’s not going to be easy to leave it, it is going to be awe­some to watch this team get better in the coming years,” Sullivan said. 
Women’s Swimming 
The Irish endured a chaotic sea­son, as they relied primarily on senior leadership without a head coach alongside the team and fell short of extending their 14-year winning streak in the Big East championship. 
Irish coach Brian Barnes left the team for personal reasons, and the swimmers practiced with vol­unteers and assistant coaches for the remainder of the season. Senior co-captain Kellyn Kuhlke said the seniors had to lead the team through adversity, which ultimately brought the women closer together. 
“We had to make sure girls were okay and enjoying their time at Notre Dame, and we wanted to make sure their voices and con­cerns were still heard,” she said. “We basically served as the liaison between the coaches and players and made sure that communica­tion was open and strong.” 
Notre Dame took advantage of an early-season meet to evaluate team members and define the roles of every individual contribut­ing toward the team’s main goal: a trip to the NCAA championship. 
“[The meet] showed what work we had to do to achieve goals we thought we could achieve,” Kuhlke said. “Our goal was to achieve beyond what we had in the past, and we continued to get better every day. We wanted to get more people to NCAAs and to score higher at NCAAs.” 
Overall, the Irish experienced success in the pool, and their meet at Northwestern demonstrated their hard work and senior leader­ship. Training without a coach for an indefinite amount of time can be stressful, Kuhlke said, especial­ly for the freshmen on the team. 
“Our meet at Northwestern [brought us together],” she said. “We came back from Hawaii, and we were jetlagged and tired from our training trip. It was one of the last meets leading up to our rest­ing time before Big Easts, and the team had a lot of momentum, good energy and a good vibe.” 
Meanwhile, the Irish divers shone in the deep end of the pool. 
Sophomore Jenny Chiang and senior Heidi Grossman were espe­cially impressive at the Big East Championship. Chiang claimed her second consecutive 3-meter diving title and finished second overall in the 1-meter diving com­petition, while Grossman came in third in both events. 
Chiang and Grossman closed out the season with top-25 finishes in both the 1-meter and 3-meter events at the NCAA Zone Diving Championships. Chiang took 12th place in the 3-meter competition and 14th in the 1-meter competi­tion, while Grossman finished in 22nd in the 1-meter and 17th in the 3-meter. 
Chiang also competed on a national level at the USA Diving winter national championships. After finishing second in the pre­liminary round of the 3-meter competition, Chiang finished 29th in the quarterfinal round. 
Chiang said that competing in the meet was a great experience despite her disappointing second round dives. 
“There’s so many good divers there, so it’s a good meet to moti­vate you to do better and work harder,” Chiang said. 
The Irish sent two swimmers, senior Samantha Maxwell and sophomore Kim Holden, to the NCAA championship meet. Maxwell, who made her fourth Big East championship, finished in the top 40 in the women’s 200-yard breastroke. 
The Irish failed to win a 15th straight Big East title when they finished second to Louisville, but despite the heartbreaking end to the seniors’ careers, Kuhlke said the teammates will remain life­long friends and supportive alum­ni. 
“I have great friends; our bond will last forever,” she said. “Losing senior year was not something we thought would happen or some­thing we ever wanted to happen. With the things we went through—good and bad—our class is competitive, has a lot of heart and wants to see things go in a good direction.” 
Men’s Track 
Under the guidance of coach Joe Piane, Notre Dame has built a tra­dition of success on the track. After a year full of all-Americans, broken records and team champi­onships, Notre Dame has asserted itself as a national contender. 
The Irish opened the indoor sea­son strong with some great per­formances at early season meets. The team showed its middle dis­tance class immediately, sweeping every distance from 400 to 1600­meters at the Notre Dame Invitational. At the Indiana Relays, Notre Dame, led by sophomore Jeremy Rae, took gold in both the 800-meter and 4x800-meter relay. 
Continuing the middle distance domination, Rae provided one of the highlights of the year at the Meyo Invitational, breaking the four-minute mark to claim the prestigious Meyo Mile. 
“Breaking four in the mile has been a goal of mine since I started running track in the eighth grade,” Rae said. “Being able to do it in front of family, friends and teammates made it extra special. Never before have I been so satis­fied with how a race played out.” 
The Irish then headed into the Indoor Big East championships looking for their fourth straight Big East title. The team received strong performances across the board, including wins from fresh­man Patrick Feeney in the 400­meter, junior Johnathan Shawel in the 1000-meter and Rae in the mile. Despite the team effort, Notre Dame came up just short, finishing second to Connecticut by less than five points. 
The indoor season wasn’t quite over for the Irish after the Big East season, as the team qualified their distance medley relay for the NCAA championships. The team of Shawel, Feeney, Rae and graduate student Jack Howard ran their best time of the year, finishing in 
9:30.16 to claim fourth-place and all-American honors. 
“The four of us were very excit­ed heading into NCAAs and it showed on the track,” Rae said. “Each of us ran near personal records. We were able to beat some highly ranked teams, and ended up being all-Americans.” 
On that note, the Irish took their game outdoors, and it was the field athletes who gave the team an immediate boost. Senior Denes Veres won the shot put at the highly competitive Arizona State Invitational, and senior Justin Schneider placed second in the decathlon at the Alabama Relays. 
The success in the field contin­ued at the Outdoor Big East cham­pionships, where senior John Belcher won the weight throw with a personal best mark of 
58.89 meters, and junior Kevin Schipper took first in the pole vault. Those performances were not enough to tip the scales, how­ever, as the Irish finished second to Connecticut once again. 
While the two close defeats may have clouded over part of this sea­son’s success, the senior class graduates as one of the most suc­cessful classes in school history, and the friendships and bonds 




October 23: 

Hockey defeats defending national champion and No.1 Boston College 2-1. 
October 30: 

Football loses its ffth con­test in eight games, falling 
December 5: 
Women’s soccer wins 
to Tulsa 28-27. 
November 26: 
the national champion-
October 31: 
Women’s soccer advances ship with a 1-0 win over 

The NCAA-record 77-game to its ffth consecutive Stanford. 
unbeaten streak against 
conference opponents over Oklahoma State. After starting the season 
comes to an end when 
September 4: UConn beats women’s Utilizing a late fourth-for the frst time, 72-58 to 
Football opens the Brian soccer 2-0 in the Big East quarter TDdrive, football Kentucky. Kelly era with a 23-12 win quarterfnals. defeats USC for the frst December 31: over Purdue. November 13: time since 2001, 20-16. Football ends its season September 25: Football defeats a ranked November 28: with a four-game winning Men’s soccer opens Big opponent for the frst time Men’s basketball wins the streak thanks to a 33-17 
East play with a 1-0 win since 2006, beating Utah Old Spice Classic with a Sun Bowl win over Miami over No. 12 St. John’s. 28-3 on Senior Day. 58-51 win over Wisconsin. (FL). 
Year in Review 
board; men’s golf wins Big East without injured leader Usher; Rowing wins eighth straight conference title 
and the friendships and bonds formed will far outlast the memo­ries of times and races. 
“Every time I put on the Irish uniform, I am filled with great memories and emotions,” Veres said. “Over the past four years, my teammates have made the experience unforgettable. I can­not imagine being a part of any other program.” 
Women’s Track 
The Irish struggled with an up-and-down season, finishing with mixed results in both indoor and outdoor competitions. 
Notre Dame finished near the middle of the conference pack in both seasons at the Big East championships. The Irish came in eighth at the indoor competition Feb. 20 in Akron, Ohio, and fol­lowed that effort by earning 10th place in the conference at the out­door meet, held May 8 in Villanova, Penn. 
Though the Irish were not one of the conference’s top squads this year, they still succeeded in many ways individually. One of the most accomplished athletes this year was sophomore Rebecca Tracy. 
Tracy won the mile at the Big East indoor championships and finished third in the 1500-meter run for the conference on the out­door circuit. In addition, she post­ed a mile time of 4:42.14 in January’s Notre Dame Invitational, which was the sec­ond fastest in the country at the time. 
Though success in track is often viewed on the individual level, Tracy credits her strong perform­ance to the leadership of the upperclassmen on the team, espe­cially senior Abby Higgins. 
“I am going to miss all of our seniors dearly,” Tracy said. “They have all contributed so much to the team. [But] if I have to pick one senior that has had the great­est effect on me, it would be Abby. I got to work with her all spring last year and she is the best train­ing partner, as well as a great teammate and leader.” 
Another notable standout was senior shot putter Rudy Atang. Atang, who placed sixth with a 14.73-meter mark in Akron, best­ed that mark in Villanova, where she finished fourth in the confer­ence after a throw of 15.51 meters. 
Atang is now preparing to com­pete in the NCAA championships June 8-11 in Des Moines, Iowa. Just like Tracy, she credits team­mates for a large part of her suc­cess. 
“I will miss my teammates the most, especially the senior throw­ers: Denes [Veres], Greg [Davis] and John [Belcher],” Atang said. “Like siblings, we have been though our ups and downs, but they have continued to inspire and motivate me in more ways than they know.” 
Men’s Golf 
After a successful fall season, the Irish entered the winter and spring with a firm sense of who they were. Led by the defending Big East player of the year, the Irish golfers were a top-30 squad looking to claim a Big East cham­pionship that barely evaded them the year before. 
Injuries, recalcitrant weather and inconsistent play, however, changed that picture drastically. In the end, though, the Irish are where they hoped to be — Big East champions heading into the NCAA regionals. 
“Our fall season was great,” Irish coach James Kubinski said. “We were a top-30 team and playing great, but we had a really tough winter, which really hurt us going into the spring.” 
With snow and cold tempera­tures keeping the team inside until early April, the Irish strug­gled with consistency early in the spring season. After not recording a finish higher than second in the fall, the team finished fifth (TPC Match Play), second (in a match play loss to Yale), 12th (Schenkel Invitational) and eighth (LSU National Invitational) in its first four tournaments. 
“The early season was frustrat­ing for us,” Kubinski said. “We really didn’t play that badly, even at Schenkel where we really imploded on the last few holes. We just couldn’t put together con­sistent rounds and tournaments.” 
Notre Dame proceeded to take first at the Battle at the Warren at Notre Dame’s own Warren Golf Course in its final tune-up before the Big East championships. 
However, the team’s struggles were exacerbated when No. 1 golfer Tom Usher broke his hand lifting weights the week before the Big East championships. The junior, despite playing through some rough stretches, was the team’s best golfer throughout the early season. 
Kubinski will find out this week whether Usher will be cleared to play in the NCAA regionals. 
“Losing Usher was definitely tough,” Kubinski said. “We had to have other people step up.” 
Kubinski inserted Connor Alan-Lee into the line-up for the Big East tournament, and the senior rewarded his coach’s faith with a strong performance. Led by Big East individual champion Max Scodro, the Irish easily outdis­tanced Louisville in the final round to take home the champi­onship. 
For his efforts, Scodro, the only golfer to finish under par, was named the Big East player of the year after the tournament, mak­ing it the second year in a row that a Notre Dame golfer has received the honor. 
“Scodro has been great this year, incredibly consistent,” Kubinksi said. “He’s literally only had a couple bad rounds all year. He really deserves the honor. I hope he’ll be named to the PING all-Midwest team as well.” 
Scodro wasn’t the only Irish golfer to receive a postseason award. Niall Platt was named Big East freshman of the year, and the conference’s coaches voted Kubinski coach of the year. 
“Platt has met my expectations, which were quite high, since the fall. He’s quite mature for his age, hasn’t come out of the lineup all year, and is one of the best putters we’ve had here in a long time,” Kubinski said. “As for me, it’s really a team award, so I’m quite grateful to the guys. The coaches really vote for it on team perform­ance.” 
The Irish are participating in the NCAA regionals this weekend in a pool of 14 teams, five of which will advance to the NCAA championships in Stillwater, Okla., beginning June 1. 
“We definitely feel like we should get out of our regional. If we play well, we should be fine,” Kubinski said. “If we get into match play at the NCAA champi­onships, I like our chances against most teams in the country. It should be a fun ride.” 
Women’s Golf 
2011 proved to be a year of firsts as Notre Dame reached unprecedented levels of success on the links. In addition to win­ning their fourth Big East title, claiming four spots on the All-Big East Team and Susan Holt win­ning the Big East Coach of the Year award, the Irish qualified for the NCAA championship finals for the first time. 
“We have advanced to regionals the past four years as a team. This has been the norm for us,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “By advancing to finals now for the first time in program history, we have set a new norm for the future.” 
Senior So-Hyun Park agreed with Holt and said the seniors were especially happy to see their four years of hard work pay off on the course. 
“[Senior captain] Katie Conway and I came to Notre Dame to make a difference in the women’s golf program. Advancing to NCAA finals was our ultimate goal and we worked very hard for it for the past four years,” Park said. “It meant a lot to Katie and I espe­cially because it is our last year playing at Notre Dame. We were more determined than ever to get ourselves onto the next stage.” 
Although the Irish enjoyed many impressive individual accomplishments — Park, junior Becca Huffer and freshmen Nicole Zhang and Kristina Nhim were named to the 2011 All-Big East team, and Huffer was named the Big East Player of the Week in March — Holt credited her team’s depth and teamwork for its suc­cess. 
“This team is made up of the top four recruiting classes in the history of the program, and as a result, we expected to do great things,” Holt said. “We did not rely on any one player to produce low numbers. We had six players that could step up and shoot low scores and we had that from everyone throughout the year.” 
Aside from qualifying for the finals for the first time, the high­light of the season came at the Big East championships when the Irish defeated rival Louisville for their first conference title in three years. 
“We gave the title to our biggest rival in the field, Louisville, for the past two years, so we weren’t going to let them take the champi­onship title from us this year,” Park said. “Katie Conway and I were especially glad that we were able to win it our last year of col­legiate golf. I also think that win­ning the Big East championships helped us get into good momen­tum going into NCAA regionals.” 
The Irish will wrap up their sea­son at the NCAA championship finals from May 18 to 21 at the Traditions Club in Bryan, Texas. 
“We have a pretty good idea of what to work on in order to get ready for NCAA finals,” Park said. “With our talents, there is no rea­son why we shouldn’t win every single tournament we play.” 
Rowing 
It was another successful sea­son for the Irish, as they won the Big East championships for the eighth consecutive season, this time as an underdog. 
Though No. 1-seeded Louisville was favored to win the conference at the May 1 competition in West Windsor, N.J., it was the Irish who emerged on top, scoring 114 points. The Cardinals came in second with a score of 109. 
“There was some tight racing out there [at the Big East champi­onships],” Irish coach Martin Stone said. “Everybody con­tributed — a lot of people stepped up.” 
But that wasn’t the only signifi­cant accomplishment of the year for Notre Dame. Ranked in the nation’s top 20, the Irish compet­ed in their final regular season race at the Oak Ridge Regionals in Oak Ridge, Tenn., May 15 against 10 teams from four differ­ent conferences. 
Notre Dame needed an impres­sive showing to be selected for the 16-team NCAA tournament, which takes place from May 27 through May 29 in Sacramento, Calif. 
“It has almost become a last-chance race for the NCAA’s,” Stone said before Oak Ridge. “There are a few combinations of results and certain things that would result in us making the NCAAs. Really all we can do is have every one of our boats race as fast as possible.” 
The Irish did just that, with all six boats performing well enough in qualifying rounds to advance to the grand final heats. Due to this success, the Irish were selected to compete in the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2007. 
The primary catalyst that pro­pelled the Irish to reach their goals this season was a continu­ous improvement throughout the year, which the Irish hope will continue into next week. 
“We’ve gotten faster as the year has gone on,” Stone said. “That’s always a goal. Sometimes you’re only as fast as you are in March, but we continued to gain speed as the season wore on.” 
Despite the continued domi­nance in the conference, Stone knows how much more difficult future success will be with a greater number of rowers com­peting in the sport. 
“Women’s rowing is getting faster and faster each year,” Stone said. “It has to do with the increased popularity of the sport and more kids rowing. More kids are training and training right before they even get to college. Right now there are probably four varsity 8s that have separated themselves [nationally]. There are then 19 or so varsity 8s that are pretty darn close. There’s a lot of parity right now in the sport.” 


March 20: 
No. 2 seed men’s bas­ketball is upset in the 
April 3: 
February 19: 

Women’s basketball de­
third round of the NCAA feats two-time defending 
Baseball gets its frst win 

under new head coach tournament against No. 10 national champion Con-Mik Aoki by routing Pur-seed Florida State, 71-57. necticut 72-63 to advance due 19-2. March 27: to the championship February 20: 1) A 2–1 win over New game. 
May 1: 
1) Women’s tennis wins In a rematch of 2010’s Hampshire in the NCAA April 5: 

national championship regional sends hockey to Women’s basketball falls its fourth straight Big East 


January 8: Women’s basketball loses in the fnal seconds to No. 2 UConn, 79-76. January 28–29:  game, men’s lacrosse defeats Duke, 12-7. February 26: Hockey loses its regular season fnale to Western Michigan 2-0 and drops to second place in the CCHA behind Michigan. February 28: Men’s basketball ends the season undefeated at  its second Frozen Four in program history. 2) Fencing wins the national championship for the eighth time in program history and frst since 2003. March 28: Women’s basketball defeats top-seeded Ten­nessee for frst time in 21  to Texas A&M 76-70 in the NCAA championship game. April 7: Hockey falls to even­tual national champion Minnesota-Duluth 4-3 in the Frozen Four. April 18: Men’s lacrosse takes over No. 1 in two national polls  championship. 2) Rowing wins its eighth straight Big East champi­onship. May 7: Women’s golf secures a trip to the NCAA champi­onship fnals for the frst time in program history. May 14: Men’s lacrosse wins a frst  
Hockey ties a pair of home  home with a 93-72 win  attempts to advance to  for the frst time in school  round NCAA tournament  
games against Miami (OH).  over Villanova.  the Final Four.  history.  game over Penn 13-6.  

Fowlkes 
continued from page 40 
and on the field is my competitive spirit.” 
Fowlkes’ competitive drive led her to become one of the most versatile players in Irish history. Recruited as a defender out of the Kansas City suburbs, she could play nearly anywhere on the field. 
“Lauren’s just a very smart player — she’s very versatile,” junior forward Melissa Henderson said. “She’s able to fill in wherever the team needed her, no questions being asked. I think that was real­ly special about her.” 
Fowlkes spent her freshman year backstopping a College Cup run but moved around the pitch her sophomore year due to a con­flict of commitments. The 2008 under-20 World Cup coincided with the NCAA tournament, and when Fowlkes joined the national team en route to a World Cup gold medal, a hole emerged in the line­up that Waldrum tried to fill up all year. 
“When we knew she was going to miss the playoffs, we kind of moved her around,” he said. “[Center back] is too critical of a position to have somebody leave in the middle of your season and try to get somebody get integrated back there.” 
While she moved around both her junior and senior years, Fowlkes’ final position changes may have been her most impor­tant. After a stunning loss in the Big East quarterfinals, Fowlkes moved from defender to forward to spark the offense, but then played all three positions in the College Cup semifinal and final as the game dictated, leading her team to a long-awaited title. 
“What’s important is that that kind of stuff never bothered her,” Waldrum said. “It’s just a ‘put me wherever the team needs me’ kind of attitude … For us at that level at that time, she played a role that we needed. It was a Band-Aid to try and get some solutions, and she did a great job.” 
That team-first attitude extends to Fowlkes’ most treasured mem­ories of her four years. 
“Obviously nothing means more than winning a national champi­onship this year,” she said. “Any team accolade is always going to far, far outweigh any individual honor that I could ever receive just because of how amazing that whole experience was.” 
Fowlkes’ journey from back line to front line (and back and forth a few times in between) mirrored her growth as a leader — a matu­ration process that resulted in her co-captaincy in her final year. 
“Lauren had the vocal part that we really wanted. It was really a nice thing to watch her grow,” Waldrum said. “When she came in as a freshman she had those leadership qualities and she understood the game, so she was­n’t afraid to say things. As a fresh­man she wasn’t ready to lead this team, but we could see the future leader in Lauren … By the senior year, she had really evolved and grown into that role.” 
Fowlkes’ growth did not stop after the national championship, however. Shortly after camp ended with the under-23 national team in December, Fowlkes was drafted fifth overall by the Philadelphia Independence of Women’s Professional Soccer. 
Now finishing up her degree with one last class while playing back for the Independence, Fowlkes continues to be grateful for her opportunities. 
“This is definitely a dream come true,” she said. “To be drafted in the first round, to be a profession­al when the league is so small and when there’s not a lot of that type of opportunity for people coming out of college, I feel really fortu­nate to be able to do this.” 
With graduation, however, comes some nostalgia. 
“Notre Dame is a place full of such awesome, special people and it’s not something that’s common everywhere else you go. It’s hard to leave,” she said. “I couldn’t have imagined anything better, not only with soccer and all those accolades and stuff, but I honestly feel like I got an education at the top institution in the country. That’ll be one of the things that’ll be in my life forever, and it’s something I’m extremely thankful for. I couldn’t have asked for a better college experience.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Corrigan 
continued from page 40 
and be confident. It’s the kind of thing you continually work at as a coach and player.” 
With 26 career assists, Brenneman can not only score, but he can also create opportuni­ties for others and visualize effec­tive offensive schemes. Ridgway said he understands defenders’ difficulty in guarding the versatile midfielder because he faces him daily in practice. 
“[Brenneman] can fit it into tight spaces past the goalie’s stick, mak­ing him tough to stop. He’s a very stubborn dodger who sometimes catches goalies by surprise when he releases his powerful shot early,” Ridgway said. “I mostly guard him when he beats his man, and I have to slide to him when he’s up top where his momentum makes him tough to cover. He is a great player and can make plays all over the field, making him truly tough to guard.” 
Several of his teammates say Brenneman is a Tewaaraton Trophy nominee because of his outstanding shot. Brenneman said he maintains the same mindset every time he possesses the ball on offense, allowing him to strategize and create the play that is best for the team. 
“The ideal situation is me catch­ing the ball 12 yards away and just ripping it,” he said. “When I’m dodging, I’m looking first at who’s guarding me, and then I’m looking for who’s getting ready to slide. Then I dissect the situation from there — do I need to pass the ball quickly in or carry it longer?” 
Brenneman credits his shooting skills to his hard work and his drive to be the best. He said Corrigan taught him that even the best players make mistakes, but that doing so can only improve their game and ultimately elimi­nate the fear of making the wrong play. 
“The best lesson that I’ve learned is that if you make a mis­take, you make a mistake at 100 miles per hour. You don’t ever want to make a passive mistake — that gets no one anywhere,” Brenneman said. “This year and throughout my career, I’ve tried to focus on the next play. Everyone’s going to make mistakes, but it’s really focusing on the next play and trying to help your team with that.” 
The Long Island Lizards selected Brenneman with the fifth overall pick in the 2011 Major League Lacrosse Draft. The 6-foot-3, 215­pound midfielder will report to camp as soon as his collegiate career comes to a close. Right now, however, Brenneman is focused on the next play and expects the Irish to achieve the goal they set on day one this sea­son. 
“[Our goal is to] win a national championship,” he said. “We’ve been there. This team is definitely an experienced group that [was] there last year. The experience is something that’s going to help.” 
Brenneman said he is grateful he got the opportunity to play lacrosse for an elite program, while simultaneously receiving a degree from Notre Dame. His hec­tic schedule might intimidate just about anyone, but Brenneman said his time at Notre Dame taught him how to manage his time properly, allowing him to excel as a student-athlete. 
“Don’t leave stuff to the last minute. It’s definitely a grind, and if you know you’ve got work, get it done,” he said. “When it comes down to it on Friday and you have a test to study for, or it’s Thursday and you’re tired and beat up, you don’t want to do it. I’ve definitely learned it the hard way, and you’ve got to get stuff done early.” 
Brenneman hopes to leave behind a legacy of hard work and dedication that extends beyond the lacrosse field after he gradu­ates. Giving back to the communi­ty is important to Brenneman, who participated in a service trip to Japan and Notre Dame’s Playing for Peace event, which raised awareness about the con­flict in Sudan. Brenneman said his work ethic is evident in communi­ty service, lacrosse and academics. 
“I’d like to leave [behind] how hard I worked and how hard the senior class worked to get us where we are today,” he said. “I think we all worked exceptionally hard on the field and off the field, and I hope that our beliefs and our demeanor and our work ethic are pushed on to everyone else.” 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 





Senior Zach Brenneman shoots during Notre Dame’s 12-8 victory over Villanova April 2. Brenneman netted two goals and an assist in the game. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, May 20, 2011 page 40 
OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 

Swarbrick discusses the future of Notre Dame athletics 
ances in one year. sports.” start, really having a consistently consisting solely of Notre Dame 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

“The one thing I have worked While Notre Dame rarely sees large base of teams and individ-athletics could increase the mar­
Editor-in-Chief 

hard to do, true droughts in the realm of ath-ual athletes who make it into the keting platform, boosting the and I think letic success, this past year NCAA tournament.” attendance figures. The Wikipedia refers to him as our coaches See Also brought quite a harvest among But with that success comes a University of Texas has already America’s first sports agent. He and athletes Swarbrick’s fields: a women’s challenge for the leader of all utilized this tactic to the tune of 
Full transcript of

holds a bachelor’s degree from have really soccer national championship — things Notre Dame sports: atten-$300 million in a deal with ESPN 
The Observer’s 

Notre Dame and a law degree embraced it, the first title of Swarbrick’s dance across all sports programs. to form the Longhorn Network. from Stanford University, and is to articu-sitdown with career — a fencing national “The good news is we have lots Yet, the former Indianapolis once upon a time, Jack Swarbrick late that the championship, a women’s basket-of success,” Swarbrick said. “The lawyer foresees Notre Dame 
Swarbrick

convinced the NCAA to up and n a t i o n a l ball runner-up finish and an challenge with that is we have a going a different direction. move its headquarters to the c h a m p i -ndsmcobserver.com appearance in the Frozen Four lot of great programs that have a “We are very focused on build-middle of Indiana. onship is the from the hockey team. lot of contests that we have to ing our digital media capacity,” 
But these days, Swarbrick, the goal annually,” Swarbrick said in “We had 16 of our teams get market and get more people to Swarbrick said. “It’ll probably director of Notre Dame Athletics, a recent sitdown with The into the tournament, and you come to.” take a slightly different form is known as the unifying force Observer. “That’s what we’re try-can’t win if you don’t get into the because we work with a different behind two national titles and ing to do, and to really focus on tournament,” said the Yonkers, A Notre Dame Network? two more Final Four appear-that as the objective for the New York, native. “That’s the In theory, a broadcast network see SWARBRICK/page 32 
OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 
Four years of success 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Senior midfelder Zach Brenneman works his way around an Ohio State defender Mar. 23. Brenneman has played in 60 of 62 games over his four-year career. 
Brenneman leads lacrosse to previously unseen heights 
from catching mice to fixing holes in our 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 

walls to cleaning dishes. He’s very reliable 
Sports Writer 

to the point where the other roommates 
won’t clean and then laugh at him because 
Since signing on as a freshman with raw they know he is going to do it eventually. talent and a heated temper, senior mid-He’s also the house cook, [but he is] not the fielder Zach Brenneman has learned to grill-master — that title belongs to me.” rely on the next play, ultimately developing Brenneman said the distance after grad-into a player-of-the-year candidate and uation will not separate him from his team-household exterminator. mates. 
Brenneman has played in 60 of Notre “I can go to these guys with any problem, Dame’s 62 games during his four-year and I can talk to them. They’re kind of just career, only missing two matches early this like brothers,” he said. “I definitely think I’ll season due to an injury. The co-captain stay in touch with my teammates. I will netted 29 goals during his junior year and definitely be a supportive [alumnus], and I has recorded 14 goals thus far as a senior. will help the guys in whatever way that I 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said can.” Brenneman is aware of his role on the Brenneman has come a long way from team and the importance of his leadership his arrival at Notre Dame. As a freshman, on the field. Brenneman bumped heads with Corrigan 
“He takes a beating, but he’s a big, physi-on a few occasions because the coach and cal kid,” Corrigan said. “He hasn’t missed a team captain both shared such a strong lot of time because he understands that passion for making the team better. With that comes with the game and that comes time, Corrigan said, they have learned to with the way he plays the game.” work together and collaborate instead of 
Brenneman lives off-campus in a house clash. with several of his lacrosse teammates, “I think he’s a very talented kid and very including senior defenseman and co-cap-driven to be good and to be great,” tain Kevin Ridgway. Corrigan said. “I think in times where I’ve 
Just like Brenneman takes control in had to work with him, it’s been a mix of Notre Dame’s Arlotta Stadium, Ridgway trying to get him to adapt to things I want said, he can also be counted on to complete to do but valuing what he does and giving almost any task in his own house. him the freedom to do what he does best 
“Zach is Mr. Fix-it around our house,” Ridgway said. “He dowdies everything see CORRIGAN/page 38 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer Senior Lauren Fowlkes celebrates with the women’s soccer national championship trophy Dec. 5. Fowlkes played three different positions during the national title game. 
Fowlkes named two-time athletic and academic All-American 
College Cup. 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
“We got into a little scuffle and she just 
Sports Editor 
got in my face,” Fowlkes said. “Obviously I 
wasn’t very happy about it. It’s just one of 

Play defender, midfielder and forward in those things when you’re caught in the the national championship game, cele-moment and you have to stand up for brate a national crown, take final exams yourself.” early and begin camp with the national Waldrum called the incident indicative soccer program — senior Lauren Fowlkes of Fowlkes’ play — but what struck him did it all in the space of just one early-most was Fowlkes’ later run-in with December week. Fuller. 
“That was crazy,” Fowlkes said with a “After that incident happened, there was laugh. “[I was] just trying to celebrate but a long-range shot … that hit the crossbar. then buckle down and get through my last Lauren’s following it up, and you see her finals.” with the same girl, and Lauren pretty 
That week was simply another chance much leveled her on the follow up,” he for the Irish co-captain to display her two said. “She wasn’t going to forget it. That trademark characteristics: competitive-kind of epitomizes Lauren.” ness and versatility. Fowlkes’ competitiveness translates off 
“[On the field,] I think her versatility was the field as well. Only the 13th athlete in really key for her and the impact she had Notre Dame history to earn both All-on the program,” Irish coach Randy American and Academic All-American Waldrum said. “Off the field, it’s just the honors in two separate seasons, Fowlkes competitiveness she has as a person. She’s graduates with a 3.62 grade point average tough, she’s physical, she’s fearless — but as a science-business major. Yet when she takes the same thing to the classroom asked to pick which honor meant more, too.” Fowlkes had a difficult time. 
Fowlkes may have been at her most “I don’t know — I would say almost the competitive that weekend in Cary, N.C. academic one almost brings more weight,” With one final shot at a national title she said. “I’ve always been one of those remaining, Fowlkes refused to let Ohio types of people that whatever it is, I’m giv­State’s Megan Fuller push her around. ing my 100 percent best effort. I think After Fuller tackled Fowlkes near the what makes me excel in the classroom boundary, the senior let fly in one of the most memorable images of the 2010 see FOWLKES/page 38 



