
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students support ND from abroad 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
While students at Notre Dame have gathered in the Notre Dame Stadium to watch the football team take on its ri­vals this semester, hundreds of students studying abroad have congregated in places across the globe to do the same. 
Junior Tara Ounan, cur­rently studying in Rome, said although it can be difficult to watch the games because of weekend travels, students in the program have still cheered for Notre Dame a few times. 
“For the [South Florida] game everyone in our program was in Rome so we all went to the local Irish bar together and watched the game which was awesome,” Ounan said. “We all 

see ABROAD/page 6 


Sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating a sexual assault reported over the week­end, according to an email sent to students Sunday evening. 
The reported sexual assault oc­curred in a residence hall during the early morning Sunday, police said. The victim knew the person who committed the assault. 
In the email, police warned students of the risk of sexual as­sault. 
“Sexual assault can happen to anyone at any time,” the email stated. “College students are more likely to be assaulted by an acquaintance, which means that the person perpetrating the as­sault could be part of the campus community. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.” 
Information about sexual as­sault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available online from both NDSP and the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention, the email stated. 


Irish defeat Midshipmen 
Students pleased with Halloween weekend win over Navy 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
It may have been Hallow­een weekend, but for junior Angela Ryck and sophomore Eily Andruszkiewicz, Notre Dame’s 56-14 victory over Navy was particularly spe­cial for another reason: It was also their birthdays. 
“It was pretty much a per­fect game for me because it was my 20th birthday,” Ryck said. “My family was here — my parents and my sister and a few friends.” 
Winning was a great birth­day present, Andruszkiewicz said. 
“It was awesome to have a game on my birthday,” she said. “And it was really fun to share my birthday with An­gela. We called every touch­down a birthday touchdown for us and I got to go up for 28 push-ups.” 
Andruszkiewicz said she thought the game went very well overall. 
“There were definitely still some sloppy plays, but there is always room for improve­ment,” she said. “I think the team definitely pulled them­selves back together after being shaken up by USC last week and started playing like it was our game, not someone else’s. It was great to see us converting on third downs and driving the ball well.” 

Junior Joe Thomas said the Oct. 23 loss to USC lowered his expectations for the sea­son but did not make him es­pecially concerned about Sat­urday’s game against Navy. 
“I think we needed this game against a not very legit-

see NAVY/page 4 


Students display an “X for X” 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
The impact one student made on the Notre Dame community was tangible Sat­urday, as thousands of people in the Notre Dame Stadium raised their arms in an “X” to honor his life and memory. 
Each time the marching band played the Celtic Chant during the first quarter of Notre Dame’s victory over Navy, cheerleaders led the student body in forming an “X” with their arms to honor Xavier Murphy, a fifth-year student and former resident of Zahm Hall who died Oct. 11 after a short battle with can­cer. 
Corry Colonna, rector of Zahm and organizer of the Raise an X for X Campaign, said more people formed the “X” than he could have hoped for. The “X” not only contin-


ued throughout the game, but spread from the student sec­tion into the rest of the Sta­dium. 

“I just sort of looked up to the sky and thought, ‘He knows, he 

see X FOR X/page 4 
App shares game day experience 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Any Notre Dame football fan knows the excitement and chaos of game day in South Bend. From tailgating to watching the band, from the end zone to the press box, it is impossible for one person to see it all — unless that person has a smart phone with ac­cess to the free LiveShare ap­plication by Cooliris. 
Through a partnership be­tween the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the computer software and online media company Cooliris, Notre Dame fans around the world can now experience game day in real time by uploading, shar­ing and viewing game day photos in an online gallery. 
The project, spearheaded by senior Ashmi Pathela, en­ables fans without tickets to participate in the excitement by keeping a finger on the re­fresh key of their computer and watching updated shots of the game. 
Photos of all game day ac­tivities are streamed online and are available through the mobile application or through the Alumni Association’s Facebook page, Pathela said. 
“The app is really awesome because game day is so busy and you want to be every­where at once, so it gives you a chance to see what’s going on all over,” Pathela said. “It connects the students, alumni and fans at a higher level.” 
Pathela said that LiveShare gives fans a chance to be ev­erywhere at once on campus. 
“For example, Rudy was visiting and signing his book at the bookstore [during USC weekend], and so people got to see photos uploaded of him in the stream and could head to the bookstore if they want­ed to see him in person,” she said. 
Notre Dame is the second university in the country, af­ter Stanford, to utilize Live-Share in this way, Pathela said. 
“It’s a good way to keep up our ranking as No. 1 in social media usage,” she said. 
The app was launched dur­ing USC weekend and 230 pho­tos were added to the stream on game day, Pathela said. Fans uploaded photos from high in the stands, showing the band formation, as well as 
see APP/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Baraka Bouts hosts “power hour” page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u What to watch this Halloween page 11 u Women’s soccer page 20 u Irish Insider 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Monday, October 31, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WERE YOU FOR HALLOWEEN? 








www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Emily Schrank  Sam Gans  
Marisa Iati  Cory Bernard  
Christian Myers  Brian Hartnett  
Graphics  Scene  
Dan Azic  Maija Gustin  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Pat Coveney  Meghan  

Kevin Kelly  Rebecca Shute  Kathryn Murphy  Tim O’Brien  Ben Foster  
junior Morrissey  freshman Howard  junior McGlinn  junior Dillon  junior Duncan  
“A hipster. It’s too obscure, you  “An ice climber from  “Charlie Weis, because I want  “Kevin Kelly, because he’s tall  “Michaelangelo; it was the only  
wouldn’t get it.”  Super Smash Brothers.”  to spend the day in the dining hall.”  and I aspire to that.”  ninja turtles hat left in my room.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Man breaks into stranger’s home to watch television 
PORTLAND, Ore. — Police in Oregon say a man broke into a home in Portland to watch television. 
The Oregonian reports that 32-year-old Jason Leon Bastrom faces charges of criminal trespass after the homeowner called police. 
Police say Bastrom let him­self in through an unlocked front door early Sunday and sat down on the couch to watch television. They say the homeowner alerted au­thorities, and then sent over a family member who lived nearby. 
Police in Florida hold Lego man in custody, await owner 
SARASOTA, Fla. — Lego 
LOCAL WEATHER 

man is going to stay in police custody for three months. 
Lego man, a 100-pound, 8-foot-tall sculpture, didn’t do anything wrong except wash up on a Florida beach. Sarasota County Sheriff Tom Knight says his office will hold the fiberglass sculpture for 90 days just like all other lost and found property. 
During that time, authori­ties will try to determine who the owner is. 
The Sarasota Herald-Tri­bune reported that the local tourism bureau had hoped to use the Lego man to pro­mote the area. 
Domino’s managers set fire to competitor’s restaurant 
LAKE CITY, Fla. — The battle for pizza supremacy has taken a wrong turn in Florida. 
Two managers of a Dom­ino’s Pizza restaurant in Lake City, in north-central Florida, have been charged with burning down a rival Papa John’s location. The motive? Police say one of the men admitted that he believed with his competitor out of the way, more pizza lovers would flock to his res­taurant. 
The Papa John’s was gut­ted in the Oct. 20 fire. 
Both men — Sean Ever­ett Davidson, 23, and Bryan David Sullivan, 22 — were booked on an arson charge and were being held in jail. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics will host a colloquium titled, “The GeoClaw Software for Tsunamis and Other Haz­ardous Flows,” today from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center. 
The men’s soccer team will face Seton Hall at 12 
p.m. Tuesday at Alumni Stadium. Admission to the game is free. 
The Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences will host the semi­inar, “The Role of Physical Modeling in Understanding Environmental Flows,” from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. tomorrow in Room 258 of the Fitzpat­rick Hall of Engineering. 
The Rolfs Sports Rec­reation Center will host a blood drive with available donation times from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. tomorrow. Par­ticipants can register online or by phone. Participation in the blood drive requires par­ticipation in a national re­search study involving test­ing to detect West Nile Virus in blood donations. 
The men’s basketball team will play an exhibi­tion game against St. Xavier in the Joyce Center from 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. tomorrow. Tickets are available online or by phone. 
There will be a Catholic Charasmatic prayer meet­ing tomorrow night from 
7:30 to 8:30 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Meet­ings are held every Tuesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
Thomassen 









CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, an article in the Oct. 28 edition of The Observer incorrectly stated Astrophysics Professor Peter Garnavich won the 2011 Nobel Prize in physics. Garnavich was invited to attend the Nobel Prize award ceremony in Stockholm, Sweden, in December to support fellow members of his research team who won the prize. 
HIGH 37 LOW 33 

HIGH 62 LOW 42 
HIGH 65 LOW 46 

HIGH 53 LOW 44 
HIGH 57 LOW 45 

Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


ND women’s boxing hosts Power 24 Hour 
SMC raises awareness for disorders 
Event highlights careers related to communicative impairments 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s chapter of the National Student Speech Language Hearing Associa­tion (NSSHLA) hosted an event highlighting the professions available to students interested in communicative disorders Sunday. 
Current Saint Mary’s students and high school seniors from the South Bend community at­tended the free event to learn more about the professions and collect more information about the communicative disorders major at Saint Mary’s. 
The event featured student speakers, tours of the pathol­ogy and audiology labs at Saint Mary’s and a discussion panel with current speech and lan­guage pathologists and audi­ologists from the community. 
Senior Elizabeth Downs, vice president of the Saint Mary’s NSSHLA chapter, organized the event and spoke to prospective students. 
“We think it’s very important to promote our major because not many people know what we do,” she said. “It’s a great pro­fession to go into, especially if you enjoy helping others. I fell in love with the intro class I took and I am really happy with my decision [to be a communi­cative disorders major].” 

Senior Lori LeClere, presi­dent of the Saint Mary’s NS­SHLA chapter, said advertising the important need for commu­nicative disorders majors was a goal of Sunday’s event. 
“We hope students learn about the career path — what they can do, where they can do it,” she said. “We want them to get an inside view of what speech pathology and audiol­ogy are. I came to Saint Mary’s without knowledge of the pro­fession, so we feel it is neces­sary to educate others about what we do.” 
Downs and LeClere agreed that knowledge and awareness of professions in communica­tive disorders are crucial to getting more students interest­ed in being involved. 
Some current communica­tive disorders majors were unaware that the major even existed before starting at Saint Mary’s. 
“I came to Saint Mary’s as a biology major,” junior Maria Malm said. “I had a general interest in helping others, and when I took the Intro to Com­municative Disorders class and did my observation of others, I discovered I really enjoyed helping others. I decided to switch majors.” 
Malm said she hoped the NS­SHLA event on Sunday stimu­lated more interest in the com­municative disorders major, as the need for qualified thera­pists, pathologists and audiolo­gists continues to rise. 
“Communication is essen­tial to having high quality of life,” she said. “There is a great need for speech pathology to help others communicate their needs and wants. I look forward to helping others and getting a hands on feel for giv­ing a voice to those with com­municative disorders.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at                 bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 



By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Members of the women’s boxing program, Baraka Bouts, directed their physical and mental toughness toward raising funds for East Afri­can Holy Cross Missions this kept high as people were ro­tating in and out, then coming back later to visit and cheer their fellow team-members on,” she said. “We were work­ing out for a good cause, so it wasn’t hard to keep up the spirit.” 
While the team has not yet 
past weekend in their signature event, the Pow­er 24 Hour. 
With the hope of raising more funds and in­creasing aware­ness of the club and charity, the team changed and intensified the structure of this year’s event, senior captain Jen Coe said. 
“For a few years now, we’ve had a ‘power­hour’ where the boxers are split 
of money raised, so we spread it over an entire day in the hopes of garnering 
more  funds  
and  raising  
more  aware­ 
ness  about  

our club, the tournament and the Holy Cross mis­sions.” 
The longer time period allowed the boxers to test their creativ­

“We wanted to double the amount of money raised, so we spread it over an entire day in the hopes of garnering more funds and raising more awareness about our club, the tournament and the Holy Cross missions.” 
Jen Coe captain Baraka Bouts 
totaled the funds raised from the Pow­er 24 Hour, both Coe and Moore said they are extremely grateful for the outpouring of support. 
“The re­sponse was in­credible. Stu­dents, faculty, alumni and fans were so generous and receptive to our cause,” Moore said. “Thank you to everyone who donated 
into two teams and try to beat each other in the number of pushups, sit-ups and jumping jacks that could be completed in the hours,” she said. “We wanted to double the amount of November to raise addi­tional funds, which will 

“Since everyone had a benefit two one-hour shift, the energy seconda rywas kept high as people schools in were rotating in and out, Kasese and then coming back later Jinja, Ugan­
da. 

to visit and cheer their 
The wom­

fellow team-members on.” 
en’s box­ing team is 

Jen Coe 
changing the captain structure of Baraka Bouts the Baraka 
ity and come up with unique approaches to their workout, senior captain Carleigh Moore said. 
“At one point we were do­ing push-ups for every dollar raised,” Moore said. “It was a great way to get in shape for the Bouts all in the name of a great cause.” 
Coe said there was an ad­vantage to working out in one-hour shifts over the previous structure of one 24-hour pe­riod. 
“Since everyone had a one-hour shift, the energy was to help us support the efforts of the Holy Cross Missions in Uganda.” 
The women’s boxing team will fight in the Baraka Bouts tournament in the beginning 
Bouts tour­nament this year as well, Moore said. 
“For the first time, women’s boxing will be holding a two-day tournament,” she said. “Our vision for this year’s sea­son has been double the bouts, double the donations.” 
This year’s Baraka Bouts event will take place on Mon­day, Nov. 7, and Thursday, Nov. 
10. Tickets for entry on both nights can be pre-purchased from any Baraka Bouts par­ticipant for $10 until the night of the tournament. 
Contact aubrey Butts at                                   abutts@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Monday, October 31, 2011 

College class rings symbolize tradition 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
If you want to learn more about a Saint Mary’s woman and the unique experience she has lived during her college years, ask her about the class ring on her finger. 
“When I look down at my ring finger, I’m reminded of my love for Saint Mary’s,” senior Kelly Golden said.  “The Saint Mary’s ring is much more than a status symbol to me. Its uniqueness and beauty remind me of my time at Saint Mary’s.” 
The Saint Mary’s class ring has stood as a symbol of the Col­lege since the 1950s, Ed O’Neil, regional sales representative for Balfour, said. Balfour, the Saint Mary’s ring manufacturer, did not introduce today’s version of the traditional Saint Mary’s ring until 1973. 
“To my knowledge, [the cur­rent design] has been [in place] since 1973, and the differences between the previous [rings] and today’s version are very, very small,” he said. “Most people al­most wouldn’t even recognize [the differences].” 
The major difference between the most popular ring of today’s Saint Mary’s student and those of the past is the size of the ring. O’Neil said almost 95 percent of students today buy the petite ver­sion, whereas many women in the fifties bought the larger version or pinkie rings. 
“Sometimes alumni will come in and comment that there’s very little difference in the seal itself 
— the size itself is the only differ­ence,” he said. 
Prior to the fifties, the Saint Mary’s ring looked very differ­ent. O’Neil said the original Saint Mary’s rings were made in Eu­rope and shipped to the United States. 
“I gave a ring to Saint Mary’s from 1921, and it had a black onyx and the whole ring was a square-shaped, rectangular ring with a very small seal that was kind of the shape of the cross,” he said. “It was a four-pointed seal and had SMC lettering on it.” 
This is a dramatic variation from the current look of the Saint Mary’s ring. 
According to Balfour’s web­site, smcring.com, the current look of the ring features the Col­lege’s seal at the top of the ring. The French Cross in the center of the seal stands as the instru­ment of salvation. Two anchors in the form of an “X” cross the seal and stand for the Greek letter Chi, the monogram of Christ and the source of the virtue of hope. 
O’Neil said these are the fea­tures that make the Saint Mary’s ring so unique. 
“The Saint Mary’s ring is ex­tremely unique, extremely well thought of and definitely identifi­able,” he said. “[Students] prob­ably know that from listening to stories from people. No matter where they go, they’ll have a com­ment made that they recognize that ring.” 
Senior Bridget Gartenmayer discovered how well known the Saint Mary’s ring is while on a trip to Rome. 
Gartenmayer said a woman approached her and her group of friends while they were eat­ing dinner. The woman noticed their American accents and in­quired about where they attend­ed school. 
“We told her that we went to Saint Mary’s College in Notre Dame, Indiana, and she lifted up her hand in excitement to show us her Saint Mary’s ring,” she said. 
Gartenmayer said she and her friends instantly felt connected to the woman. 
“The woman, who was in Rome with her Notre Dame husband, was in her 40s, still wore her ring and had the essence of a Saint Mary’s woman,” she said. “It was so amazing to know that such a small symbol of Saint Mary’s Col­lege can bring Belles together all around the world.” 
Saint Mary’s class of 2007 alumna Jess Jordan said she still wears her ring, as it serves as a constant reminder of her educa­tion and the memories developed at Saint Mary’s. 
“My ring helps me stay con­nected, and even though I’m not there anymore, it reminds me of the time I spent at Saint Mary’s, my friends and my experienc­es,” she said. “I wear my ring as a symbol of pride because I’m extremely glad I went to Saint Mary’s and I enjoyed every min­ute of my time here.” 
O’Neil said anecdotes like these stand as a true testament to the character and teachings of Saint Mary’s. 
“In a school that graduates 350 people a year, [stories like these are] a tremendous statement re­ally,” he said. “The attachments and the recognition are just tre­mendous. It’s such a connection to the past, and it’s that link that never goes away.” 
O’Neil said the 40 years of working for Balfour and selling Saint Mary’s rings have allowed him to play a role in the forma­tion of the lasting connections Saint Mary’s students feel with their rings. 
“I think that the students and alumna at Saint Mary’s really [cherish] that, and that ring is very representative of that,” he said. “I was thinking about what the Saint Mary’s ring really rep­resents, and it kind of is like say­ing a Saint Christopher’s medal is more than just a piece of jewelry. The Saint Mary’s ring is more than just a piece of jewelry.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Navy 
continued from page 1 

imate offense,” Thomas said. “I would have been a lot more concerned if they weren’t an option offense that I know we can stop.” 
Thomas said he was pleased the Irish scored so many points but thinks the team still needs to improve. 
“I’ve always thought the key to success in a football team is having a steady quarterback, and we still haven’t made a decision there,” he said. “We’re a solid chunk through 
X for X 
continued from page 1 
sees us,’” Colonna said. 

Colonna watched the game from around the 50-yard line with Murphy’s family. He said they were clearly touched by the showing of solidarity for their son and brother. 
Saturday would have been Murphy’s 23rd birthday. 
Senior Steve LaBrecque, a resident assistant in Zahm, said showing Murphy’s family just how much he meant to Notre Dame was one of the foremost goals of Raise an X for X. 
“The fact that his family was there, for them to be able to see the whole student body come to­gether and realize that [Xavier] meant something to this com­munity, and ND as a whole, for me that was the biggest take­away,” he said. 
Senior Charlie Harig, Zahm Hall president, agreed. 
“The big thing for me after­wards was less about selling stuff, but more about [Murphy’s family] seeing ‘Wow, our son made an impact on a lot of peo­ple’s lives,’” he said. 
Senior Daniel Duffey, a resi­dent assistant in Zahm, said “raising an X for X” during the game was the perfect way to remember Murphy, who was passionate about Notre Dame 
— and especially Notre Dame football. 
“It was a really fitting memo­rial for who Xave was — his love of Notre Dame football and Zahm,” Duffey said. 
Planning for the Raise an X for X Campaign began in Sep­tember, when Murphy was first diagnosed with leukemia. The goal was that Murphy would see a number of people with their hands in the air for him while he watched the game from Riley Hospital in Indianapolis, where he was receiving treatment. 
After Murphy died, Colonna said the Zahm and larger Notre Dame communities pulled to­gether to bring the campaign to fruition. 
Colonna said the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Student Activities Office (SAO), cheer­leaders and leprechaun and football administration all went to great lengths to help make Raise an X for X a reality. 
“I’m humbled and immensely grateful for everything every­one did for Xavier and his fam­ily,” Colonna said. “It was such a good cause but so many people were willing to help out. [That] speaks a lot to who Notre Dame is.” 
Duffey said it was great to have the support of the student the music but thought it was better than it was at the USC game. 
“It was more toned-down,” Sullivan said. “I was worried that it would take away from the band, and I like the tradi­tion that we have, but I think they did a better job this time.” 
Sophomore Lisa Rague said she liked the music a lot. 
“I think especially when it’s songs that everyone knows and we’re all singing at the same time, we’re all a com­munity, and it feels cool to be a part of that,” she said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

the season and I think that’s what’s holding us back. The quarterback is the leader on the field and if we feel like the quarterback could be pulled at any time, everyone feels more vulnerable.” 
The music played over the loudspeakers was a nice touch, Thomas said. 
“I thought they did a really good job with it this weekend. ‘Crazy Train’ was fun, but it got played a little too much [at the USC game],” he said. “I thought they did a great job of mixing it up this weekend. It got everyone pumped.” 
Junior Kelly Sullivan said she wasn’t sure if she liked body in “sending the message about who Xave was.” 
“We definitely got the word out there,” he said. “We know he was looking down, we were definitely proud to have done it for him.” 
In addition to last Saturday’s events, the Raise an X for X Campaign also involves T-shirt and bandana sales, a Basilica mass and a blood drive. Colon­na said T-shirts and bandanas were almost entirely sold out by the end of Saturday, but a few can still be purchased online at Student Shop ND. 
Proceeds from the T-shirt sales and other regular dona­tions will go to the Xavier Mur­phy Student Scholarship Fund through the Office of Develop­ment at Guerin Catholic High School, Colonna said. Proceeds from bandana sales will go to­ward Relay for Life. 
On Nov. 4 at 5:15 p.m., Zahm will host a mass in the Basilica to honor those currently battling cancer and those who have died from the disease. Zahm priest­in-residence Fr. Jim Gallagher will celebrate the mass. Zahm will also hold a blood drive Nov. 7 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom to benefit the Indiana Blood Center. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
App 
continued from page 1 

shots from the student sec­tion and the field. 
Statistics from the Alumni Association reveal that the number of weekly active us­ers increased by 5,306, and post views during game week increased by 98 percent. 
The application was ini­tially publicized most strong­ly to alumni, but Pathela said there are plans to spread awareness to students. 
ed about the app on the of­ficial Facebook pages of the Alumni Association and the University.” 
Notre Dame quarterback Dayne Crist also tweeted about the LiveShare app Oct. 21, spreading the informa­tion to his 12,000 Twitter followers. 
The free application can be found by searching “Live-Share by Cooliris” in either the Apple or Android appli­cation markets. 
Contact ann Marie Jakubowski at                     ajakubo1@nd.edu 

“For the USC game we focused on publicizing to alumni mainly — especially those attending the game — to upload pictures if attend­ing or view the photos if not,” Pathela said. “In the future, we would like to extend more marketing to students.” 
In order to get the word out to alumni, the project relied on other forms of social me­dia. 
“We sent an email about it to all alumni ticket-holders for the game as well as an e-newsletter via ND Today,” Pathela said. “We also post-


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Monday, October 31, 2011 

Occupy Wall Street protesters arrested 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. — Dozens of anti-Wall Street protest­ers were arrested Sunday in Texas, where they clashed with police over food tables, and in Oregon, where officers dragged them out of a park in an affluent neighborhood. 
In New York and many oth­er East Coast cities, it was a snowstorm that was making it difficult for demonstrators to stay camped out in public places. 
The “Occupy” movement, which began six weeks ago in lower Manhattan to decry corporate influence in gov­ernment and wealth inequal­ity, has spread to cities large and small across the country and around the world. Dem­onstrators have spent weeks camped out in parks, wearing at the patience of city officials 
— even those who have ex­pressed some level of support for their cause. 
In Portland, Ore., police have allowed protesters to sleep in two parks surrounded by of­fice buildings despite policies outlawing camping, but May­or Sam Adams warned dem­onstrators last week that he would not allow them to take over any more parks. Late Sat­urday, hundreds of protesters gathered in another park — Jamison Square in the wealthy Pearl District — and defied a midnight curfew. 
About 30 people who had decided to risk arrest sat on the ground as other protest­ers walked around them and chanted “Whose Park? Our Park!” and “Make No Arrests.” 
When police moved in around 2 a.m., all but the sit­ting protesters backed off. An Associated Press photogra­pher said most of those pro­testers went limp and were carried or dragged away by police. There was no violence during the arrests, which took about 90 minutes. 
The protesters — all appear­ing to be in their 20s and 30s with many wearing Hallow­een-style face paint — were handcuffed and taken away in police vans. “We are the 99 percent,” one arrestee contin­ued to chant. 
Police said the arrests were made on charges that included criminal trespassing, interfer­ing with a police officer and disorderly conduct. 
Some protesters said they wanted to camp in the Pearl District because they view its residents as part of the wealthy demographic they’re protesting. Commissioner Randy Leonard had urged them to reconsider, saying in a letter that it would be inappro­priate to expand the demon­stration into a neighborhood park. 
“We — the entire city coun­cil — are your friends ... at present,” Leonard wrote. “However, our friendship and support are now being unrea­sonably tested by the decision to occupy Jamison Square.” 
Police in Austin, Texas, made 39 arrests early Sunday as they moved to enforce a new rule banning food tables in the City Hall plaza where protesters have camped out. Some protesters surrounded the tables with arms linked. 
Most were charged with criminal trespass, Police Chief Art Acevedo said. No injuries were reported. 
Protesters had been advised of the food table ban on Fri­day, Assistant City Manager Michael McDonald told the Austin American-Statesman. 
“We want to facilitate their activities,” he said, “but we can’t allow this to be a perma­nent campsite.” 
Some protesters found the ban arbitrary. “On a night where there are hundreds of drunks driving around town, they have all these resources here to take down three food tables,” protester Dave Cortez told the newspaper. 
Protesters in California, Georgia and Colorado also have been arrested over the last several days. 
In Tennessee, Republican Gov. Bill Haslam’s administra­tion sent state troopers to haul away Occupy Nashville pro­testers Thursday and Friday for violating a park curfew, but none were jailed. A local of­ficial, Night Court Magistrate Tom Nelson, refused to sign off on the arrest warrants, saying state officials have no author­ity to set the curfew. 
On Saturday night, protest­ers prepared for a third night of arrests but were greeted by only a single trooper on patrol who made no move against them. Safety Department spokeswoman Jennifer Don­nals would not say whether the troopers plan to continue the arrests, saying only, “The curfew remains in effect and we urge the protesters to ad­here to it.” 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 

also watched the USC game together on a projector in our residence.” 
Because Rome is six hours ahead of South Bend, Ounan said students are able to watch the games when they go out at night at a few bars, such as Scholar’s and Mikki’s, whose owners welcome Notre Dame students. 
“Staying up until 5 a.m. to see all of the USC game was a struggle though,” she said. “And not worth it.” 
Although there are down­sides to watching the games abroad, junior Conor Hegedus said the benefits of being in London far outweigh them. 
“I still get excited for the games and get upset when we lose but it isn’t as bad be­cause I can drink legally and don’t have to be in South Bend where everyone is blacked out wishing we were relevant in football again,” he said. 
But as the season continues, some abroad students have lost interest in the team. 
Junior Katie O’Leary, who is also studying in London, said because it is often difficult to watch the games, students are more likely to stop following them. 
“People will still talk about them and complain or cel­ebrate depending on the out­come, but the normal enthu­siasm dwindles after a while,” she said. 
Hegedus said it is difficult to re-create the atmosphere of a Notre Dame home game in a country where residents do not care about American football. 
Similar attitudes have taken hold in Rome, Ounan said. 
“It’s so different not being in the student section, it’s almost like I’m just watching any old football game,” she said. “Al­though the first game when we rolled 30 deep to the bar in ND gear and with ND flags was pretty awesome. But that was pretty much the peak of the ex­citement, everyone has gotten kind of lazy since then.” 
Ounan said although she misses being on campus for the games, she is happy she made the decision to study abroad. 
“It’s a completely different experience and as much as football rocks, it’s kind of hard to think ‘I’d rather be in South Bend right now’ when you’re out at the bar in Rome or Lon­don or Paris,” she said. 
Although she said she is pained to be absent from the rivalry games, such as USC, O’Leary agreed. 
“For me getting the experi­ence of going abroad was much more important,” O’Leary said. “I love Notre Dame and going to the games, but getting to be in London for a semester is definitely worth missing a season.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 



Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
Cain reverses, opposes all abortion 
October snow leaves 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Republican Herman Cain on Sunday said he opposes abortion even in cases of rape, incest or when the life of the mother is at stake, contradicting previous statements in which he fa­vored some exceptions. 
The tough stand that Cain staked out during an interview with CBS’ “Face the Nation” comes as he tries to clear up his position on an issue closely watched by social conserva­tive and evangelical voters, who are among his strongest supporters. 
In a 1998 interview with Na­tion’s Restaurant News, the former pizza executive de­scribed himself as “pro-life with exceptions, and people want you to be all or nothing.” 
In a recent interview with CNN, he said the government should not tell women what to do in cases of rape and in­cest. Afterward, his campaign issued a statement saying he was “100 percent pro-life.” It did not specifically mention whether he supported any ex­ceptions. 

The no-exception position is considered the most rigid in the anti-abortion community. Even some who oppose abor­tion support exceptions in ex­treme circumstances such as when the mother’s life is at risk. 
Cain told CBS he’s “pro-life from conception, period.” 
Asked whether that includes instances of rape, incest and life of the mother, Cain said, “Correct. That’s my position.” 
He also endorsed a contro­versial theory linking abortion to racial genocide. Cain said Planned Parenthood founder Margaret Sanger wanted to eradicate minorities by put­ting birth control clinics in their neighborhoods, a charge that the group denies. 
Cain said 75 percent of the organization’s abortion facili­ties were built in black com-
millions without power 
munities. 
“In Margaret Sanger’s own words, she didn’t use the word genocide, but she did talk about preventing the increasing number of poor blacks in this country by pre­venting black babies from be­ing born,” Cain said. 
But Planned Parenthood disputed Cain’s claims, citing a study by the Guttmacher In­stitute that found that fewer than one in 10 abortion clin­ics are in in predominantly African-American neighbor­hoods. 
“Herman Cain is wrong on the facts and clearly out of the mainstream in his attack on Planned Parenthood,” spokes­woman Veronica Byrd said in a statement. 
“It is simply unacceptable for those who oppose legal abortion to use inflammatory and divisive language based on race to push an ideological agenda.” 


Associated Press 
SOUTH WINDSOR, Conn. — When winter’s white mixes with autumn’s orange and gold, nature gets ugly. 
A freak October nor’easter knocked out power to more than 3 million homes and busi­nesses across the Northeast on Sunday in large part be­cause leaves still on the trees caught more snow, overload­ing branches that snapped and wreaked havoc. Close to 2 feet of snow fell in some areas over the weekend, and it was partic­ularly wet and heavy, making the storm even more damaging. 
“You just have absolute tree carnage with this heavy snow just straining the branches,” said National Weather Service spokesman Chris Vaccaro. 
From Maryland to Maine, of­ficials said it would take days to restore electricity, even though the snow ended Sunday. 


The storm smashed record snowfall totals for October and worsened as it moved north. Communities in western Mas­sachusetts were among the hardest hit. Snowfall totals topped 27 inches in Plainfield, and nearby Windsor had gotten 26 inches by early Sunday. 
It was blamed for at least nine deaths, and states of emergency were declared in New Jersey, Connecticut, Mas­sachusetts and parts of New York. 
Roads, rails and airline flights were knocked out, and passengers on a JetBlue flight were stuck on a plane in Hart­ford, Conn., for more than sev­en hours. And while children across the region were thrilled to see snow so early, it also complicated many of their Hal­loween plans. 
Sharon Martovich of South-bury, Conn., said she hoped the power will come back on in time for her husband’s Hallow­een tradition of playing “Young Frankenstein” on a giant screen in front of their house. But no matter what, she said, they will make sure the eight or so children who live in the neighborhood don’t miss out on trick-or-treating. 
“Either way we will get the giant flashlights and we will go,” she said. 
More than 800,000 power customers were without elec­tricity in Connecticut alone — shattering the record set just two months ago by Hurricane Irene. Massachusetts had more than 600,000 outages, and so did New Jersey — including Gov. Chris Christie’s house. Parts of Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, New York, Maine, Maryland and Vermont also were without power. 
“It’s going to be a more dif­ficult situation than we expe­rienced in Irene,” Connecticut Gov. Dannel P. Malloy said. “We are expecting extensive and long-term power outages.” 
Thirty-two shelters were open around the state, and Malloy asked volunteer fire de­partments to allow people in for warmth and showers. At least four hospitals were rely­ing on generators for power. 
Around Newtown in west­ern Connecticut, trees were so laden with snow on some back roads that the branches touched the street. Every few minutes, a snap filled the air as one broke and tumbled down. Roads that were plowed be­came impassible because the trees were falling so fast. 
One of the few businesses open in the area was a Big Y grocery store that had a gen­erator. Customers loaded up on supplies, heard news updates over the intercom, charged up their cell phones, and waited for a suddenly hard-to-get cup of coffee — in a line that was 30 people deep and growing. 
Many of the areas hit by the storm had also been hit by Irene. In New Jersey’s Hamilton Township, Tom Jacobsen also recalled heavy spring flooding and a particularly heavy win­ter before that. 
“I’m starting to think we really ticked off Mother Na­ture somehow, because we’ve been getting spanked by her for about a year now,” he said while grabbing some coffee at a convenience store. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, October 31, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Candytheory 

I love Halloween. However, I re­ally don’t like scary movies, the only haunted house I’ve ever been to was at my city’s children’s museum and I re­ally don’t like dressing up. What I love about Halloween is all the candy. 
I literally overdose on candy from about Oct. 27 to the 31st every year. I’m not much of a candy-eater during the rest of the year, but when October rolls around, I’m ready to indulge. I’m not Anna Boarini really picky either. While my favorite News Writer candy is Reese’s peanut butter cups, I pretty much enjoy everything and I am not afraid to give a new Halloween candy a try. 

I think this obsession with all things Halloween candy started out when I was a little kid. I grew up on 45 acres of land and my only neighbor was my family’s 3 acre greenhouse and my grandma, so my trick-or-treating was limited. We used to drive to my Aunt Annette’s house and my Aunt Dory and Uncle Bob’s, but that was about it. 
So needless to say, my Halloween candy stash was much smaller than my friends’ at school. Their moms would pack them a few pieces for weeks after­wards, while my lunch only contained salami sandwiches or leftover pasta. 
I was so jealous of their candy hauls. Kids would have full pillowcases and whole kitchen drawers set aside for that year’s Halloween candy. To me, a huge amount of Halloween candy was like the ark of the covenant — I knew it existed but I could never find it. Then, in the 4th grade, my friend Olivia Bruns invited me to trick-or­treat in her neighborhood. It was my first real, walk around a neighborhood, trick-or-treating experience. And I was psyched. 
Olivia and I dressed up as renais­sance princesses that year, and our parents took us trick-or-treating. I got to carry a pillowcase and as the night went on, that pillowcase got full of candy. I was always under the impres­sion that getting Halloween candy was pretty simple. Walk up to the door, ring the bell, say something cute, collect candy and leave. Well, I was all wrong. 
That night, I learned there was a pretty complex method to ensure the best Halloween candy haul. Certain houses gave out King Sized candy bars, while other houses only gave out granola bars or candy leftover from last year. However, even though I was a Halloween novice at ten, my friends quickly got me up to speed. I came home toting what seemed like a 100 pound bag of candy. 
My parents were amazed at how much candy I got. While I ate my fair share, I barely cracked the surface of that pillowcase. It was just too much for me. All the different flavor combos of peanut butter and chocolate, sour patch kids and caramel were just too new for ten-year-old me. 
And that’s my theory on why I now eat so much candy at Halloween. At ten years old, I couldn’t handle all the candy I got on my first real Halloween. So basically, 11 years later, I’m still making my way to the bottom of the bag. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What’s the point? 
Happy Halloween everyone! 
After returning home from a ter­rible midterms week and a relaxing Fall Break (I’m jealous of all you Ve­gas vacationers), I was ready to put schoolwork on hold and have Dee Tian a good time. 
However, af-Confessions ter six straight of a Christian days of exces-Party Girl sive drinking and questionable decisions (why must I eat a hot pocket every night when I come home from the bars?), it’s safe to say that I don’t feel very holy or close to God. Each morning, I pray (as I stand hung over in my shower), “Hi God, You probably didn’t approve of last night … Sorry.” Then 12 hours later, I’m once again taking shots. I’m sure he’s convinced. 
Not. 
This conflicted feeling reminded me of a movie I saw this summer. I led a youth group (my first time ever leading one, thank you to the pastor who volunteered me) on a summer retreat and we watched “To Save a Life.” 
Okay, so it was kind of cheesy, a bit unrealistic (they definitely played pong incorrectly), but still pretty good. It centers on a popular high school senior, Jake, whose childhood friend, Roger, kills himself in the middle of a crowded school hallway. 
Jake seems to have it all — a cute girlfriend, lots of friends, invites to parties and a scholarship to Lou-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

isville to play basketball. However, after Roger’s death, he recalls how Roger saved him from a car accident, sacrificing himself, when they were children. 
Jake reflects on how when he became “cool,” he left Roger behind, watched him being picked on and did nothing. One day, Jake meets a youth minister, Chris, who helps him discover his true potential and the greater things in life, including God. 
The movie deals with sex, dating, teen suicide, teen pregnancy, party­ing, peer pressure, cliques, God and religious hypocrites — the usual. What resonated most with me was the question Jake asks Chris after finding out the pastor’s son smokes weed: “Why are there so many fak­ers?” 
I often wonder that myself. I see self-professed Christians, judgmental and self-righteous, turn around and get wasted, have sex with plenty of randoms and say malicious things about others behind their backs. It just doesn’t feel right. Then again, I admit that I’m often one of them. Does being a “party girl” send a posi­tive message to others about Chris­tians? 
God is the most important being in my life. I read the Bible every night, pray multiple times each day, go to church every Sunday and won’t change my radio station from KLove (Christian rock) when my friends get in the car. I know, I’m a freak. 
Then I look at the flip side: I went to my first party when I was 15 years old, got my first fake ID when I was 18, was voted Life of the Party for my High School Senior Superlatives and day drinking is one of my favorite activities (something about the sun … so rare in South Bend). 
Most would say these two lifestyles are dire opposites. Is it possible to be both? I try to be encouraging and kind, but I can be catty and vain like any other college girl. In the movie, Jake gives up his partying ways because “What’s the point if you’re not going to really let it change you?” That really strikes a chord with me. I say, I’m only this way because I’m in college, and everyone is like this in college. 
I’ll stop pounding shots when I get a real job and it becomes socially unacceptable. I mean, that’s what everyone else said in my Alcohol Edu­cation Class (thanks ResLife). 
But is that really morally correct? Can I really keep one foot in each boat? My friends, even the really Christian ones, say it’s okay. 
We’re young; we’re supposed to be crazy and wild. But are we being honest with ourselves … or are we just making excuses? 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing major with minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is no pleasure in having nothing to do; the fun is in having lots to do and not doing it.” 
Mary Wilson Little American singer 


WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite kind of candy? 

Reese’s peanut butter cup Milky Way M&M’s Twizzlers 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Being international at Notre Dame 
If you studied abroad, you would know that being an international student is a challenging experi­ence. 
But being one for four years at Notre Dame, like five per­cent of the student Jee Seun Choi body, requires deeper interaction Asiatic Gaze with the new place. The experience, of course, varies from individual to individual. I know of an international student who didn’t even know that Notre Dame had a football team, or even that it is a Catholic school. 
Then there are other international students who know everything about the Notre Dame tradition. Some speak English with their parents, while some find speaking the language very un­comfortable. The culture at Notre Dame can be shocking even to an American student; for an international student, Notre Dame provides a different kind of challenges and excitement. 
When I first arrived at Notre Dame, I was afraid, excited and jet-lagged. I had said goodbye to my old friends who came to see me before I left at 4 
a.m. I cried in the airplane as I read a farewell letter from my family. The immigration process at the airport was predictably unfriendly. I was anxious to be speaking a foreign language that I had learned for a while but nowhere close to be fluent in. 
My first impression of Notre Dame? I hated Frosh-O. Everyone else seemed to know all the songs and childhood TV shows that were basics of a culture I had not grown up with. 
The moment I opened my mouth, they knew that I was not American. I felt judged when I couldn’t act fluently in a quick and stressful social situation. The program designed to make most of the student body bond and identify with each other only accentuated my dis­similarities. 
Classes were challenging as well. At Notre Dame, it’s so easy to lose the balance between one’s studies and life outside academia. When self-worth is defined by academic performance, one can easily be crushed when that one pillar becomes unstable. The pressure is exacerbated for the hyper-achieving international students, who came to a different country to attend an academic institution while lacking fluency in the language and culture. 
People might extol bilingualism and cultural awareness, but in real­ity the general attitude makes one feel less than appreciated. It is extremely frustrating when you have something to say in class but cannot express it or misrepresent it due to the language bar­rier. Your classmates often appear more intelligent because of their mastery of the language the class is taught in. You might be the sole contributor of an idea that isn’t received by anyone else because the reference is specific to your cultural upbringing. 
Connecting with the American profes­sors can be really awkward because of the cultural difference. You need to make an extra effort to make what you learn in college applicable to where you come from. 

My sophomore year was especially challenging. I missed speaking and reading in my language. I missed my family and friends. I missed the food and culture. I sometimes felt absolutely lonely. I questioned why I left home; some days I just wanted to go back. 
Despite all the difficulties, or maybe because of them, international students have a tremendous opportunity for personal growth at Notre Dame. The culture shocks — a surprising level of patriotism, an unquestioned Chris­tian faith, the idea of equality, sexual liberalism or lack thereof, material abundance, openness, diversity, politi­cal correctness, differences in social­izing — make you reflect on your own culture. 
The intellectual seriousness is the right environment to reconstruct many of the values you had taken for granted, which has been a critically painful but rewarding process for myself. 
You truly learn what it means to respect different ways of life through befriending Americans and other international students. Academics are challenging, but you know it’s what you could not have gotten at home. After Notre Dame, you have the option of choosing between two different coun­tries, which most people usually do not. 
You can bring something what you’ve learned here to your home country. 
Although there is room for significant improvement, Notre Dame is a diverse place. It all depends on how you make use of it. However small, there are young and enthusiastic people from all parts of the world from different background. Many campus-wide events celebrate different cultures, and the school even pays you to go abroad. 
Many Notre Dame students have in­ternational experiences, or want to have them, maybe even through international students here. If you haven’t found your niche, you can be the pioneer. (This semester I witnessed the birth of two Asia-related academic groups!) The school is trying hard to increase the en­rollment of international students and support them. 
So international students at Notre Dame, and American students who want to be true internationals, do not be frustrated. If you are unhappy about Notre Dame, shamelessly put yourself out there and you can be the change. I know it is difficult, but you will find support. 
(And don’t forget to check out the Asian Allure this weekend!) 
Jee Seun Choi can be reached at asiaticgaze@gmail.com or jchoi2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

“Class” is not tradition 
Lost in recent debate is the fact that Notre Dame is not a university bound to tradition. 
If we adhered to all of our past traditions, our players would still be wearing leather helmets, Notre Dame Sta­dium would be three-quarters its current size, we wouldn’t have “The Shirt,” and we’d still be running the wishbone (which most alumni would rather see than a modern spread offense). 
Times change, and so does tradition. Nearly every other major collegiate football team has a Jumbotron. I’m pretty sure every other football stadium pumps in music. 
And not only do other schools give out towels, but they distribute T-shirts to coordinate the color of the crowd. 
And guess what: so does Notre Dame. That’s right: sev­eral of our own teams play under the Purcell Pavilion’s Jumbotron, some play on artificial turf, and to my knowl­edge, music is blasted through the loudspeakers at every non-football sporting event at Notre Dame. 
Why does Notre Dame — and other schools — participate in this madness? 
Well, maybe because it works. While our football team has won only fifteen of its last thirty-one home games, partially thanks to our apathetic crowd, our other sports teams actually win games, conferences and national cham­pionships. 
Not only do they win, but they represent the University proudly, usually with student-athletes who seem to make better grades and seem to deal with fewer suspensions and legal issues than their football counterparts. 
So what is tradition anyway? For Notre Dame, all tradi­tion means is winning. “Class” is not tradition at Notre Dame. In the late 1980s, our players engaged in at least one fight per season, and our fans graciously welcomed strangers with profanity and violent bus rocking. Class was not even in their vocabulary, and no one seemed con­cerned. 
Here’s the main point: tradition doesn’t matter. Class should matter, but if we’re winning, no one at Notre Dame cares about how opponents feel. 
So if a Jumbotron, artificial turf and outside music give us the best chance to win, I’m all for it. Tradition be damned. Win, baby, win. 
Stephen Rehagen 
sophomore Knott Hall Oct. 28 

What makes Notre Dame classy 
What’s the big deal about having a Jumbo-tron? How does that make the game suddenly classless (“Tradition is character,” Oct. 28)? Historically, Notre Dame has always been a team that embodies the American public. 
We were once known as the working man’s Harvard. We got our mascot because we de­cided to embrace a racial slur. And nowhere is this truer than on the football field. This isn’t cricket. We don’t stop for tea time. 
Football is a brutal game, where we cheer when we hear a great hit. We are literally screaming as loud as we can for half the game. This isn’t about being classy, it’s about making our football stadium a place that other teams fear. 
A few years ago, when USC played Ohio State at the Horseshoe, Pete Carroll blasted music at their practices to try to simulate what the game would be like. Just a guess, but I highly doubt such preparations had to be taken when they played us. 
So, invigorating our fans during the game is important (mind you, nothing will invigo­rate a fan base more than a slew of victo­ries, but that’s another topic entirely), but we can’t really do that if we conform to your standard of “class.” 
I’m not saying that Notre Dame and foot­ball doesn’t have any form of class, but what you are talking about, Ms. Buechler, is not class. It’s us sticking up our noses at people because they aren’t “traditional” enough. 
Class isn’t about Jumbotrons or towel wav­ing, it’s about the fact that when a fan from an opposing team walks onto campus, they are treated with respect, not a face full of spit (yes, you know which campuses I’m talk­ing about). 
Class is our football team walking over to the Navy band and standing with them for their alma mater. It’s the fact that win or lose we stand together arm in arm singing about our love for this most amazing of universi­ties. That is what makes Notre Dame classy. 
Serena Mathews 
junior off campus Oct. 30 




Not sure what to spend your Hallow een doing? Try catching up with FX’s new hit show, “American Horror Story.” 
“Horror Story,” developed by “Glee” creators Ryan Mur phy and Brad Fal chuk, is a little dif ferent in tone than their Fox based musical hit. In fact, it just might be the complete opposite. 
“Horror Story” follows Vivien (Con nie Britton) and Ben Harmon (Dylan Mc Dermott) and their daughter Violet (Taissa Farmiga) as they move from Bos ton to Los Angeles after Vivien suffers a miscarriage and catches Ben having an affair. 
They find a beautiful old home at a reasonable price and move in imme diately. It doesn’t take long, though, to learn that their home is commonly known as “Murder House” thanks to a string of violent events in its history. 
“American Horror Story” does some thing that has been attempted often yet accomplished rarely on television . it scares its audience. In fact, it stands up against some of the best horror movies around in its ability to send chills down your spine and make you jump out of your seat. 
The scares, though, are wrapped in a rich world of televisual storytelling re plete with compelling characters, fas cinating plot lines and a detailed story world. 
In fact, it is the combination of great horror and great storytelling that makes “American Horror Story” one of the most interesting shows on TV this season. Many viewers looking to replace the complex mythology of “Lost” have looked to shows such as “Terra Nova” and “Once Upon a Time” to consume their minds with complicated theories and twisted storytelling, but “American Horror Story” might be the real solu tion. Four episodes in, it already has a dense Wikipedia page and is ripe for fan theorizing. 
If you love being scared, then you’ll probably like, maybe even love “Ameri can Horror Story.” But even if horror isn’t really your thing, “American Hor ror Story” is the kind of storytelling that sucks you in so completely that it might not even matter. It’s scary, but the scares are thrilling, pushing along a fast-paced plot that has twists at ev ery turn. 
Scary movies are perfect, though, be cause they are contained to two hours. In two hours, some people show up, scary things happen and then it’s all over. The scares come to an end and there isn’t enough time to bother with simple questions like, “Why don’t you just move out of your house?” or “Why don’t you just bring in an exorcist?” 

Maija Gustin 
Scene Editor 
“American Horror Story” deals with these issues and is all the better for it. 
Addressing why the family can’t just move out of their house, for example, adds an element of realism to the series that many scary movies lack, making it even scarier in a way. You can’t just write this show off as a bunch of people without enough common sense to get them out of this situation, something that gives you a sense of comfort as a viewer because that would never hap pen to you. You’re too smart. 
The Harmons are stuck in this hor rible situation (and horrible it is) not because they lack sense or because they asked for it they’re just unlucky, really unlucky, because what happens to them in “American Horror Story” re ally is horrifying. 
This isn’t a show that passes itself as slightly horrifying because it features zombies or serial killers the things that happen to this family are twisted and horrifying. This stuff, from home in vasions and scary babies to a man in a black rubber suit and a doctor with a penchant for sewing things together, shouldn’t even be on TV. But it is, and Murphy and Falchuk show the same kind of flair they showed for present ing the predicaments of a bunch of high school misfits who like to sing in their crafting of this hauntingly engaging TV show. 
So give it a chance on Halloween. You’ll get the thrills of any good scary movie, but with it you’ll get a fantasti cally crafted show with all the qualities of the best television and a hook that will keep you coming back for more. 
Even if the pilot doesn’t sell you, give it a chance. Each episode is full of ac tion and suspense, but the show only gets better as the characters develop and the mythology deepens. Brace yourself for thrills and chills that will extend well past Halloween and prep yourself for this week’s, “Halloween: Part 2,” with a viewing of the first four episodes of “American Horror Story.” 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



In honor of All Hallow’s Eve, The Observer Scene Department has compiled a list of the 20 best pop culture bad guys. Many scare with their unworldly powers, others scare with their uncanny intelligence and others scare simply with a stare. Is your most fearsome villain missing from the list? Let us know in the comments section of the article at ndsmcobserver.com 
1.
 Darth Vader from “Star Wars” 

2.
 Voldemort from “Harry Potter” 

3.
 Dracula from “Dracula” 

4.
 Hannibal Lecter from “The Silence of the Lambs” 

5.
 The Joker from “The Dark Knight” 

6.
 Miranda Priestly from “The Devil Wears Prada” 

7.
 Leatherface from “The Texas Chainsaw Massacre” 

8.
 Michael Myers from “Halloween” 

9.
 Ursula from “The Little Mermaid” 

10.
 The Trinity Killer from “Dexter” 

11.
 Regina George from “Mean Girls” 

12.
 Sauron from “The Lord of the Rings” 

13.
 Cruella de Vil from “101 Dalmatians” 

14.
 Miss Trunchbull from “Matilda” 

15.
 Sue Sylvester from “Glee” 

16.
 Samara from “The Ring” 

17.
 The Tammys from “Parks and Recreation” 

18.
 John Doe from “Se7en” 

19.
 “A” from “Pretty Little Liars” 

20.
 Freddy Krueger from “A Nightmare on Elm Street” 


DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” — stop talking about how rough Hallow-awake at night when they were in ele-witches before they can get their fill. “Who Got Dee Pregnant?” een is for him. To top it off, her dad Jay mentary school, “The Ring” is a classic 
This episode was not scary in the and his wife Gloria are fighting because film that is still both scary and good. It’s “Community” — “Horror Fiction in typical Halloween horror sense, but was Jay said that sometimes it’s difficult to what a good movie should have — an Seven Spooky Steps” perhaps frightening because it hit too understand what Gloria is saying with engaging plot, suspense, drama — as In one of the best Halloween episodes close to home for its college-age audi-such a thick Colombian accent. It all cul-well as what makes a good scary movie this year, the students of “Community” ence. The hilarious episode is a sort of minates in a disastrous first run of their — creepy images, risk of death, action come together on Halloween to solve a murder-mystery, where the cast tries trick-or-treat performance. In true sit-and the pop-up-and-scare moments. mystery — which one of them is a psy­to piece together their sparse memories com fashion, however, everything wraps The movie has great acting, unforgetta-chopath. When Britta asks her class-to figure out what the heck happened up perfectly in the end. ble moments (like the distorted faces of mates to fill out an anonymous person-at their recent Halloween party. In this the dead, Samara’s long hair and freak-ality survey for her psychology class, case, however, the mystery at hand is “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” — ish crawling, and the horrifying video one indicates a severe personality disor­the identity of the man who impregnat-“Halloween” tape sequence) and leaves the audience der. Britta organizes a Halloween party ed Dee. The episode spawned a host of We all know that you’re supposed to afraid to answer their phone or be alone where everyone will tell a scary story to new costume ideas (i.e. Man Spider), as dress up as someone or something else in the room with a television. determine who the psychopath is. Each well as a healthy dose of Halloween one-on Halloween. But what if you actually story, told with typical “Community” liners.  turned into your costume? This epi-“Rocky Horror Picture Show” flair, is more ridiculous than the next 
sode from the second season of “Buffy A retro cult favorite, this film makes and the results might just surprise you. 
“The House of the Devil” the Vampire Slayer” answers that, when movie-watching cinema an active 
“The House of the Devil” is outra-a spell transforms the Scooby Gang event every year for enthusiastic par-“The Exorcist” geously scary. It features traditional and everyone else in Sunnydale. Wil-ticipants. Acting troupes’ live reenact-Nearly 40 years later, “The Exorcist” horror-movie lore — a babysitter shows low becomes a ghost, Xander a soldier, ments, throwing toilet paper, squirting is still considered one of the scariest up to a remote, creepy house and be-and Buffy is helpless as she turns into water guns and shouting at the screen films of all time. Movie theaters report-comes involved in a satanic ritual. Al-a noblewoman from the 18th century. are some of the attractions this famous ed audience members fainting or getting though it relies on traditional themes, Similar to the season six episode “Ta-movie has to offer. Additionally, the sick during the film about a young girl this movie is far from tired. The film’s bula Rasa,” there are great comedic mo-combination of naïve and strange char-who is possessed by the devil. With in-heroine is not your typical horror-famous scenes, like the one involving movie protagonist. Her decisions are pea soup, and a shocking story, “The all somewhat intelligent and more like Exorcist” is a powerful film about the what a real person would do in her dangers of the devil that is guaranteed situation. The style of the movie is also to shock even the bravest viewer. decidedly throwback, which gives the movie a rad ‘80s vibe. It’s a Halloween “Paranormal Activity” must-see, just don’t do so alone. The third iteration of this popular 
film series is in theaters now. But be­“How I Met Your Mother” — fore heading to the cinema, check out “Slutty Pumpkin” the game-changing original film as 
Hopeless romantic Ted Mosby is no and its sequel. The films utilize hand­less hopeless on Halloween. In sea-held cameras and surveillance cam-son one of the series, Ted returns to era footage to create the most eerily the rooftop party he attends every realistic depiction of horrifying events year in hopes of re-meeting the girl of since “The Blair Witch Project.” The his dreams. Years before, Ted met a original sets up the story of a couple woman who will forever be known as terrorized by a demon while the sec­“the slutty pumpkin.” When he got her ond acts as a direct prequel that ex-number, she wrote it down on a can-plains how the events of the original dy bar that was then given away to a film came to be. The third film is a trick-or-treater. Every year since then prequel to both, giving background Ted has returned to the same party in on the central characters of the first the same costume — a hanging chad two films and their haunted history a la the 2000 presidential election. with the supernatural. These films are Meanwhile Ted’s friend Barney hilari-some of the most-clever scary movies ously tries to pick up the ladies while to come out in years and keep you on making at least three costume chang-the edge of your seat the whole time. es. Tune in tonight to see the saga of the slutty pumpkin continue. “Psycho” 
Alfred Hitchcock’s classic, which 
“The Middle” — “Halloween II” features that infamous shower-stab­
“The Middle,” one of TV’s most un-bing scene, is a thrilling look into the derrated family sitcoms, had one of deranged mind of one man and his the most heartwarming Halloween mommy problems. “Psycho” is, per-episodes this year. Sue Heck, the ex-haps, the scariest of Hitchcock’s films tremely socially awkward freshman, and revels in crawling under your skin attended a Halloween party as a die. and holding you in suspense rather Needless to say, the large cardboard than shocking you with blood and gore. box engulfing her body didn’t attract This black-and-white classic holds up the men. She comes home and tries even against the most gore-tastic films to talk to her dad, Mike Heck, about of recent Hollywood output.  what boys want. Needless to say Mike freaks out and gives some of the worst “Psych” — “This Episode Sucks” parental advice of all time. At the The current societal obsession with same time, Frankie Heck, the matri-vampires finally took hold of “Psych” arch of the Heck family, is forced to in this season’s Halloween-themed drag son Brick and his social group episode.  The latest murders in San-trick or treating. After attaching them ta Barbara appear to be the work of all to a leash and trying to make the best ments to be had in changing identities. acters (Brad, Janet, the confident Dr. a vampire, at least according to Shawn of the situation, Frankie flips out on a Frank-N-Furter, Rocky) allows for many and Gus, who love the idea of vampires. woman who doesn’t say, “That’s okay,” “Parks and Recreation” — moments of comedy with a plot that is When even Detective Lassiter agrees after Frankie apologizes for being in “Greg Pikitis” and “Meet ‘n’ Greet” pretty good on its own. And of course, with their crazy idea, you know the epi­her way. Oldest son Axl and his friends The second season Halloween epi-the fun and catchy rock music literally sode is destined to be one to remember. serve as the neighborhood superheroes sode of “Parks and Recreation” pits the has audiences dancing in the aisles. Hijinx, of course, ensue as everyone as well in this altogether charming Hal-protagonist, Leslie Knope, against the tries to solve the murder and avoid be­loween episode. forces of wily teen prankster Greg Piki-“Hocus Pocus” ing bitten by a vampire. 
tis. It is an epic contest of wills, made This classic ‘90s film probably played 
“Modern Family” — “Halloween” all the more interesting by the involve-a big role in your childhood Halloween “It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie 
Even though they didn’t offer a new ment of Leslie’s then-boyfriend, a police celebrations — and for good reason. Brown” Halloween episode this year, “Modern offer portrayed by the hilarious Louis “Hocus Pocus,” about three dastardly This Halloween classic just never gets Family” re-ran their fantastic episode C.K. This season’s Halloween episode witch sisters and the kids who bring old. This TV-special based on Charles from last year. Phil and Claire Dunphy featured April and Andy throwing their them back one Halloween, captures the Schulz’s comic strip, “Peanuts,” follows turn their house into a house of horrors first Halloween party as a married cou-true spirit of Halloween. It mixes hu-the Peanuts gang as they prepare for the for trick-or-treaters, but everything in ple, causing some problems for their mor and gags with witches, ghosts and holiday festivities surrounding Hallow-the process seems to ruin Claire’s favor-roommate Ben. Also in turmoil are Les-a book of spells for the perfect Hallow-een. Linus writes a letter to the Great ite holiday. Her daughter Haley comes lie’s campaign and Tom’s business ven-een movie. A skeptical teenager is made Pumpkin, despite great ridicule from all down the stairs in a string of unbeliev-ture, Entertainment 720. The episode is a believer when he, his sister and his his friends, and then spends Halloween ably inappropriate costumes — includ-available to watch on Hulu, and it is just crush-worthy classmate accidentally in a pumpkin patch rather than trick­ing an attractive Mother Theresa. Her the sort of Halloween hilarity that will bring back the Sanderson Sisters, intent or-treating.  The story is endearing and husband won’t leave her alone because make even Monday better. on prolonging their life by sucking out heartwarming, even as Charlie Brown he’s spooked by their neighbor’s sudden the souls of the local children. With the receives only rocks at every house he divorce. Her brother Mitch and his part-“The Ring” help of a talking cat and a vengeful zom-stops at.  The episode is short and avail­ner Cam refuse to dress up. Cam won’t Of all the horror films that kept people bie, the three kids try to stop the devious able on Hulu for the holiday season. 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSIFIEDS Monday, October 31, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Swings in emotion boost NCAA football 
Maybe you’ve spent a week preparing for your biggest rivalry game in primetime on national television. Maybe you’ve spent that week gear­ing up to take down a pre­viously undefeated team, assuming the role of David to your oppo­nent’s Goli­ath. Maybe you’ve spent that week prepar­ing to face a scrappy underdog hungry for nothing more than a win. 
Then you take the field. The fight songs play, the crowd cheers and the game comes down to the very end. You fight, you scrap and emo­tion pours out of your body with every bead of sweat. 
You might triumph against all odds, vanquishing your once-proud opponent. You might fall on the last play of the game. Whatever the outcome, you finally go to the locker room and take your pads off, exhausted and spent. 
And that’s when it hits est challenge in coaching is getting a team to refresh, refocus and respond for the next game on the schedule. 

Some coaches have found a way. This past weekend, Notre Dame smacked Navy while Oklahoma pounded a previously-undefeated Kan­sas State squad. Brian Kelly and Bob Stoops found ways to motivate their players after stinging losses. 
But sometimes, teams sim­ply cannot shift their focus to the future. The lingering feelings of joy stick around into preparation for next week. Michigan State and Texas Tech both lost handily after knocking down unde­feated teams. It was clear that the players had spent too much reveling in the previ­ous success of the previous Saturday and too little work­ing toward continuing that success. 
Then there’s USC. The Trojans clearly shifted their focus to Stanford and gave the highly talented Cardinal all they could handle. USC fought tooth and nail to keep the game tight and made some timely plays along the way to put a triple-overtime scare into Heisman frontrun­ner Andrew Luck. 
But by the 
end of the 

got a game next week. College football is an emotional game. Teams can ride the  Every weekend, there’s a game that leaves fans with sweaty palms and racing hearts. But in the big picture, it’s the game after the thriller that matters more to  Trojans were beyond tired. Coming off an intense battle with Notre Dame in an electric  
emotion of  a team’s season.  environment,  

you you’ve game, the 
a raucous home crowd to an im­probable victory. Others thrive on silencing a hostile environ­ment. Nowhere are the thrill of victory and agony of defeat more on display than at the end of a rollicking contest decided at the very end. 
We saw that last week when Texas Tech took down mighty Oklahoma, when USC took down Notre Dame and when Wisconsin dramati­cally fell to Michigan State. Emotion was on full display, and fans nationwide enjoyed a classic weekend of college football. 
But emotion has a dark side. It’s exhilarating, but it’s exhausting. It can give a team energy, but it can take it away just as quickly after­wards. Perhaps the great-USC simply did not have enough gas in the tank 
to keep up with the physi­cal Stanford squad for more than four quarters. Despite their best efforts, the previ­ous week just took too much out of the Trojans for them to beat the talented Cardinal. 
It’s part of what makes col­lege football so great. Every weekend, there’s a game that leaves fans with sweaty palms and racing hearts. But in the big picture, it’s the game after the thriller that matters more to a team’s season. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
NFL 

Steelers solve Brady, Patriots 

Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH — The Pitts­burgh Steelers no longer have a Tom Brady problem. And that may be a problem for the rest of the NFL. 
Old, slow and over? Not quite yet. 
Ben Roethlisberger picked apart the NFL’s worst de­fense and the Steelers rattled the nearly unflappable Brady in a 25-17 victory on Sunday, putting an end to the two-time MVP’s decade of domi­nance over the defending AFC champions. 
Brady came in 6-1 all-time against the Steelers, putting up eye-popping numbers in the process. He never got the chance on a chilly day at Heinz Field. Pittsburgh (6-2) controlled the ball for nearly 39 minutes and never let Brady get into a sustained rhythm. 
“It’s been all Tom Brady versus the Pittsburgh Steel­ers and looking back on the past, how he’s owned the Pittsburgh Steelers, and I think everybody forgot about our offense a little bit and the things they’ve been doing out there,” Pittsburgh line­backer LaMarr Woodley said. “I think they took that a little personal.” 
Playing efficiently and working almost exclusively on short, safe, underneath routes, Roethlisberger com­pleted 36 of 50 passes for 365 yards and two touchdowns as the Steelers won their fourth straight following a 2-2 start. 
“We can be as good as we want to be,” Roethlisberger said. “When we don’t kill ourselves and stop ourselves, we can be pretty dangerous.” 
Brady passed for two touchdowns but threw for a season-low 198 yards. His at­tempt to lead the Patriots to an unlikely comeback end­ed when Pittsburgh’s Brett Keisel sacked him, forcing a fumble that Troy Polamalu slapped through the end zone with 8 seconds left to provide the final margin. 
“We all have to individual­ly look in the mirror and fig­ure out what we need to get better at,” Brady said. 
There was no sense of panic among the Patriots, who fell into a tie with Buffalo atop the AFC East. Yet the Steel­ers did something no team has been able to do this year: keep Brady under wraps. 
Pittsburgh sacked him three times, held wide re­ceiver Wes Welker — on pace for an NFL record for yards receiving in a season — to 39 yards on six receptions while limiting the Patriots to their fewest points since a 34-14 loss to Cleveland last year. 


The Patriots punted four times, missed a field goal in the third quarter that would have drawn them within a touchdown and failed to re­cover an onside kick with just over 2 minutes remaining. 
Not the kind of brisk ex­ecution that’s been the hall­mark of Brady and coach Bill Belichick’s highly successful tenure. 
“It just wasn’t a really good day for us in any phase of the game, in any area,” Belich­ick said. “We just didn’t do a good enough job. That’s re­ally all there is to say.” 
Brady and Belichick re­main tied with Don Shula and Dan Marino for most wins by a coach/quarterback tandem. Win No. 117 will have to wait at least a week after the Steelers emphati­cally awoke from an early-season slumber that included one-sided losses to Baltimore and Houston. 
Pittsburgh didn’t panic af­ter the slow start. And while the Steelers weren’t ready to declare they’re back, there was a definite sense of vindi­cation on a day that felt more like January than late Octo­ber, and not just because of the chilly weather. 
“It’s a huge step,” lineback­er Lawrence Timmons said. “The New England Patriots have Belichick and Brady. This is a team that contends in the AFC every year and goes to the championship or the Super Bowl. So hav­ing this win, in our house, is huge and something to build on.” 
On both sides of the ball. 
Roethlisberger has built a career and won two Super Bowls by chucking it deep with abandon. On Sunday he didn’t complete a pass over 26 yards. He didn’t have to. 
Roethlisberger consistent­ly found Antonio Brown (a career-high nine receptions), Heath Miller (a season-high seven grabs) and speedster Mike Wallace (seven catches) on short and intermediate routes. 
The West Coast-style ap­proach worked perfectly. 
Pittsburgh’s five scor­ing drives lasted 11, 16, 10, 14 and 11 plays. The Steel­ers converted 10 of 16 third downs and Shaun Suisham kicked three field goals. 
“It’s very frustrating,” New England nose tackle Vince Wilfork said. “You talk about getting a team in second­and-longs and third-and­longs and taking advantage of those situations. We had them in those situations; we just didn’t take advantage of them.” 
Despite being dominated for long stretches in the first half, the Patriots trailed just 17-10 at the break. Yet the magic Brady has been able to muster repeatedly against the Steelers throughout his career never appeared. On the same field where he won two AFC championships, Brady never really got com­fortable. 
“We had to beat them to­day,” safety Ryan Clark said. “We’re talking about this dominance that New Eng­land’s had on us. I think we’ve won more Super Bowls, been to more Super Bowls than they have. It’s not about history. We were excited to win today.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? DON’T GO IT ALONE. NOTRE DAME HAS MANY RESOURCES IN PLACE TO ASSIST YOU. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU LOVE NEEDS CONFIDENTIAL SUPPORT OR ASSISTANCE, PLEASE CALL SR. SUE DUNN AT 1-7819 OR ANN FIRTH AT 1-2685. FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT ND’S WEBSITE AT: HTTP:// PREGNANCYSUPPORT@ND.EDU 

Field of Dreams Quotes:  John Kinsella: Is this heaven?  Shoeless Joe Jackson: What’s with the  [Ray explains Terence Mann’s “pain” to  
Ray Kinsella: It’s Iowa.  lights?  Annie]  
Ray Kinsella: What are you grinning at, you ghost?  John Kinsella: Iowa? I could have sworn this was heaven.  Ray Kinsella: Oh, all the stadiums have them now. Even Wrigley Field.  Ray Kinsella: The man wrote the best books of his generation. And he was a pioneer of the Civil Rights and the anti-war  
Shoeless Joe Jackson: Makes it harder to  movement. I mean, he made the cover of  
Shoeless Joe Jackson: If you build it...  [John starts to walk away]  see the ball.  Newsweek. He knew everybody. He did  
[nods toward John Kinsella]  Ray Kinsella: Is there a heaven?  Ray Kinsella: Yeah, well, the owners found  everything. And he helped shape his time. I mean, the guy hung out with The Beatles!  
Shoeless Joe Jackson: ... HE will come.  John Kinsella: Oh yeah. It’s the place  that more people can attend night games.  But in the end, it wasn’t enough. What he missed was baseball.  
where dreams come true.  Shoeless Joe Jackson: [Shakes his head]  
[Ray looks around, seeing his wife playing  Owners  Happy Halloween!  
with their daughter on the porch]  Happy birthday Theresa Hall!  


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Monday, October 31, 2011 
NFL 

Vikings edge out Panthers in matchup of top picks 

Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Chris­tian Ponder took only two starts to get his first career win, out-dueling the more-heralded Cam Newton in the process. 
The rookie showed tremen­dous poise in the pocket, par­ticularly on third downs, and got a huge assist from Adrian Peterson on Sunday as the Min­nesota Vikings held on to beat the Carolina Panthers 24-21. 
Peterson had 162 yards from scrimmage and scored two touchdowns, and Ryan Lon­gwell kicked a 31-yard field goal with 2:43 left as the Vikings (2-6) snapped a two-game los­ing streak. The Panthers had a chance to tie the game with 26 seconds left, but Olindo Mare missed wide left from 31 yards. 
Ponder, the 12th overall pick in the draft, completed 18 of 28 passes for 236 yards to beat Newton, the first choice in the draft. Ponder moved the chains with key completions on third downs in the second half to keep scoring drives alive. 
“It’s satisfying to get a win no matter what,” Ponder said. “Cam played extremely well. He had three touchdown passes, and a big drive there at the end. Fortunately, the ball bounced our way with the missed field goal.” 
Peterson, the NFL’s leading rusher, bounced back from a slow start and scored on a 9-yard run to tie the game at 21 late in the third quarter. He ran for 86 yards and had five catches for 76 yards, including a 19-yard touchdown reception in the second quarter. 
“They kept dropping deep and leaving him open,” Ponder said. “I kept taking it. ... I’ll take that all day.” 
Newton threw for 290 yards and a career-high three touch­downs, but once again the Pan­thers (2-6) failed to finish in the fourth quarter. It was their fifth loss by a touchdown or less this season. 
The Panthers had their chances. Carolina went three-and-out on three straight pos­sessions in the second half and watched their lead slip away. 
But after Longwell’s field goal gave the Vikings the 24-21 lead, Newton seemed poised to lead a memorable comeback. He com­pleted a 44-yard pass to Bran­don LaFell on fourth-and-15 to reach Vikings territory. The Panthers appeared to reach the 7 on a first-down run by New­ton, but the play was called back because of a holding pen­alty on Steve Smith. 
“I got a few texts saying al­ready in the HD it didn’t look too bad,” Smith said of the of­ficial’s call. “For a 70-year-old man gimping down the field, I guess that’s what he saw.” 
Newton went back to Smith on the next play, but he was stopped short of the first down. Mare’s kick sailed wide left and the home crowd groaned before heading to the exits. 
“Whoever thinks that this game came down to the last possession is a fool,” Newton said. “Offensively and defen­sively, we had opportunities, man.” 
Minnesota’s defense came up with some timely turnovers, jarring the ball loose from Newton on a pair of blindside hits; both fumbles led to first-half touchdowns. 
Still, the Panthers led 21­14 after a 22-yard touchdown catch by Smith in the third quarter. But Carolina’s offense sputtered most of the second half — going three-and-out on three straight possessions. The Vikings tied the game on Peter­son’s ninth touchdown rushing this season late in the third quarter. 
“I got more involved in the passing game today,” Peterson said. “The first half was criti­cal. Carolina was stacking the box and slowing down the run. I was able to get around the pe­rimeter on a checkdown. Chris­tian did a great job of finding me.” 
Minnesota took the lead for good on a 13-play, 72-yard drive in the fourth quarter that took 
7:10 off the clock. 
Smith, who came into the game leading the NFL in yards receiving, had seven catches for 100 yards. Tight ends Jer­emy Shockey and Greg Olsen also had touchdown catches for Carolina. 



Jared Allen, who entered the game leading the NFL in sacks, had a big game for the Vikings with five tackles, a sack, a forced fumble and a fumble re­covery. Percy Harvin had four catches for 58 yards and scored on a touchdown run for the Vi­kings. 
The game began with a crazy flurry. 
Marcus Sherels returned the opening kickoff 78 yards to the Carolina 27. However, the Vi­kings went three-and-out and Longwell missed a 45-yard field goal. 
It seemed Carolina had seized the early momentum with that defensive stop. But 
E.J. Henderson sacked Newton from behind on Carolina’s first play and Allen recovered at the Carolina 16. Harvin, lined up in the backfield, scored two plays later on a 10-yard run to give the Vikings a 7-0 lead. 
The Panthers evened the score in the second quarter when Shockey hauled in his first touchdown pass of the sea­son, a 1-yarder from Newton. Shockey celebrated by blowing kisses to the crowd. 


Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Coach impressed with team despite finish 



By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s ran to a sev­enth-place finish in Satur­day’s MIAA championships. 
The Belles’ finish was identical to their seventh-place finish earlier in the season at the MIAA Jam­boree. The results of both meets are used to name a conference champion. The MIAA Jamboree accounts for one-third of the team score and the confer­ence cham­pion ship s 

makes up “While it may not be the other evident in the overall two-thirds. rankings, the Belles had 
Despite a great day. It was a the seventh 
really fun weekend and 
place fin-

great to see all of the 
ish, Belles 

hard work pay off.” 
coach Jack­ie Bauters was quite Jackie Bauters impressed Belles coach 
with her team’s per­formance. 
“While it may not be evident in the overall rankings, the Belles had a great day,” Bauters said. “It was a re­ally fun weekend and great to see all of the hard work pay off.” 
Individually, each Belle accomplished either a ca-reer-best time or a season personal-best time. 
Senior Joanne Almond led the squad, placing 33rd overall with a time of 
23:22. Almond’s time es­tablished a new personal best, surpassing her previ­ous record by 11 seconds. 
Almond believes the team’s preparation con­tributed to its success. 

“The field went out fast,” Almond said, “but we had practiced running positive splits and we were really prepared to compete.” 
Junior Julia Kenney fin­ished 39th with a time of 
23:39. She reiterated the importance of the team’s preparation. 
“We all came well pre­pared after many weeks 
of quality workouts and prep­aration,” Kenney said. “It was very rew ard­ing to see all of our hard work come to­gether.” 
The MIAA con­ference champion­ship rep­resented the Belles’ final reg­ular sea­son race. 

Kenney believes that the team is now fully focused on the postseason. 
“We now look toward re­gionals,” she said. “Over these next two weeks, we will continue to improve upon our strengths and weaknesses so that we can finish off the season on a strong note.” 
The Belles will return to competition at the NCAA Regionals on Nov. 12 at Oberlin College. 
Contact walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles sweep MIAA foe Albion 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles ended their season in strong form when they went on the road and defeated Albion on Friday night. Saint Mary’s (8-17, 6-10 MIAA) managed to fight back in each of the first two sets and ultimately pulled out the 3-0 sweep against the Britons (3-24, 0-16). 
“It felt really great to play well and end on a high note this season,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. 
Kuschel attributed a large part of Friday’s win to the outstanding play of junior setter Danie Brink. Brink hit at a .500 clip for the match, aced three serves and tal­lied 24 set assists. 
“We were able to pass well, which allowed Danie to run our offense,” Kuschel said. “[She] played a great match.” 
Sophomore middle hit­ter Christi Wyble paced the Belles on offense, fin­ishing with a .625 hitting clip and four blocks for the match. The Belles were led on defense by senior libero and defensive specialist Meghann Rose, as well as freshman setter Annie Bodi­en and junior outside hitter Stephanie Bodien. 
Kuschel said Friday’s win capped a solid season, de­spite numbers that may have shown otherwise. 
“We had a successful sea­son this year even though we did not end the season being a top-four team in the conference,” she said. “We were able to double our wins in conference play as well as have a better re­cord than our 2010 season. More importantly, we played at a much higher level this season while remaining healthy.” 
Looking forward, Kuschel has even higher expecta­tions for her squad. 
“Our team was able to com­pete at a very high level this year and I will be looking for them to work hard during the off-season to come back connected and even more ready to compete for a top spot in the conference,” she said. “We had a very young team this year with eight freshmen. We will be losing one senior, Meghann Rose, who will be leaving some big shoes to fill. She set a great example of what it takes to be a leader and a top libero in our conference.” 
The team’s freshmen re­ceived significant playing time and experience this season, which should ad­vance their development as they transition into return­ing players. 
“I am very confident that they will come back next season with even more con­fidence and knowledge of what it will take to get us where we want to go,” Kus­chel said. 


Contact laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


SMC SWIMMING 

Kalamazoo overwhelms SMC 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles swam well Friday night, but Saint Mary’s couldn’t keep up with the Hornets and dropped its first dual meet of the season 213-75. 
Swimmers from No. 18 Kalam­azoo (1-0, 1-0 MIAA) won 14 of the 16 events, but the large mar­gin of victory did not detract from promising performances from Saint Mary’s (0-1, 0-1). 
“We had some solid swims,” Belles coach Mark Benishek said. “We’ve had two really hard weeks, and this past week we had some really hard swims practice-wise. We’ve put in a lot of yardage but there were good swims over­all from the entire team.” 
Benishek predicted tight races between senior captain Audrey Dalrymple and Kalamazoo soph­omore Molly DeWald, and the two did not disappoint. Dalrymple finished 2.29 seconds behind DeWald in the 100-yard breast­stroke, which DeWald won in 
1:08.68. But Dalrymple grabbed a victory of her own in the 200-yard breaststroke, finishing in 2:29.30, over three seconds before De-Wald. 
Dalrymple also accounted for the Belles’ other win, finishing first in the 200-yard individual medley in 2:18.79. She took second place in the 50-yard freestyle and third place in the 200-yard med­ley relay with junior Genevieve Spittler, senior Megan Price and freshman Anna Nolan, whose performance caught Benishek’s attention. 
“We saw some good things out of some of the younger swimmers. One of them to note is Anna No­lan, a freshman. She had very, very good swims,” Benishek said. 
In addition to the medley relay, Nolan finished second in both the 100-yard backstroke and 50-yard freestyle with times of 1:05.34 and 26.44, respectively. 
Benishek said that the support team members give each other at practices and meets have a notice­able impact on individual perfor­mances during races. 
“They challenged each other and they do a really good job of stepping up and encouraging each other, whatever time it might be, so that works out,” Benishek said. 
Benishek was also pleased to see his swimmers avoid the men­tal errors that often hurt teams early in the season. 
“They were really focused. We had a good discussion before the meet about that,” Benishek said. “Nobody’s perfect . they’re go­ing to make mistakes. We talked about that, and it’s what you do afterwards and overcoming it.” 
The Belles have largely trained as one team for the first month of the season, but they’ll now focus on the finer points of their indi­vidual events. 
“We’re going to continue to work hard over the next couple weeks here, because we’re re­ally gearing up for our invitation­als that we have coming around Thanksgiving period,” Benishek said. “We’re going to have a lot of hard swims, but we’ll probably start isolating the group down into their strokes. Distance swim­mers will break off and do some different workouts than some of our stroke and our sprint freesty­lers.” 
The Belles take to the water next at 7 p.m. Friday as they host Hope at the Rolfs Aquatics Center. 


Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Monday, October 31, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Freshmen spearhead blowout 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
In just the fourth meet of the season, Irish freshmen swimmers and divers are al­ready proving their impact on the squad. Freshman Emma Reaney led the way with victories in two indi­vidual events as Notre Dame (3-1) won 13 of 16 events overall on its way to a domi­nating 185-115 win in a meet against Big East rival Pitts­burgh on Friday afternoon. 
Reaney earned first place in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:18.02 and won the 200-yard individual medley with a finishing time of 2:04.72, beating the field by nearly three seconds. 
“Emma’s getting what she deserves,” Irish coach Brian Barnes said. “She’s a hard worker, a great student and she’s hungry for success.” 
Meanwhile, freshman Su­zanne Bessire placed first in the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 1:51.87 for her first collegiate victory. Adding to the success of the Irish freshmen was Hannah Bowen, who won the 50-yard freestyle in 23.53 seconds. 
On the diving side, junior Jenny Chiang and fresh­man Allison Casareto both dominated the 3-meter and 1-meter dive events. The teammates claimed first and second in both events, when Chiang finished first to Casareto in the 1-meter with 295 points, while Casereto scored 293 points to beat Chiang in the 3-meter. 
Both divers have proven dominant in meets so far this season as Chiang re­cently won both events in last week’s loss to Auburn. 
Barnes was impressed with the overall team effort, 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 


especially in light of com­peting after a more than six-hour bus trip to Pittsburgh. 
“It was a hardworking meet,” Barnes said. “I was curious to see how we would handle the travel on Friday, and we stood up and com­peted. I’m very pleased with our progress.” 
In other events, freshman Kelly Ryan took first place in the 100-yard backstroke by half a second over her Pittsburgh opponent. Fresh­man Bridget Casey won the 200-yard fly with a finishing time of 2:02.36. 
The Irish will make a shorter trip this Friday to West Lafayette, Ind., when they face Purdue in a dual meet at 5 p.m. 


Contact Matt Unger at            munger3@nd.edu 

Irish end fall season on high note 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
From a last-place finish at the Tar Heel Invitational to a heartbreaking runner-up showing at the Indiana Uni­versity Fall Invitational, it has been a somewhat disap­pointing fall season for the Irish. The team ended the season on a very encourag­ing note over the weekend though, hanging tough in an elite field to earn a top-10 finish at the Landfall Tradi­tion in Wilmington, N.C. 
“It was a productive trip,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We beat a handful of teams that were ranked ahead of us, and the ones we lost to were some of the top teams in the country.” 
Despite the tough field, Notre Dame’s golfers were able to hold their own, and then some. Senior Katie Al­lare had her opening round disqualified due to an un­signed scorecard, but ral­lied over the weekend to finish strong. Notre Dame’s two freshmen also ended their opening season well, as Kelli Oride (239, 23-over­par) just barely edged out Ashley Armstrong (240, 24-over) in overall scoring. Making the rounds more impressive was the fact that they came despite difficult conditions. 
“The conditions proved to be quite difficult,” Holt said. “It was chilly and cold all this weekend. For the quality of players that were there, the scores were high, and that was due to the challenging weather condi­tions.” 
Notre Dame’s best score of the weekend, though, came from senior captain Becca Huffer. Coming off her in­dividual title at the Indiana University Fall Invitational, Huffer climbed the leader-board with a Sunday score of 73 to notch a top-10 fin­ish in the elite field. 
“Tenth place is very good for the level of competition that was at the tourna­ment,” Holt said. “She put together a very solid final round [and] was under par for most of it until the final few holes.” 
The Irish were also helped greatly by sophomore Kris­tina Nhim, whose consis­tency was rewarded with a 16th-place finish. Nhim shot a 76 on Friday, and followed that up with two rounds of 77 on the weekend to con­clude her season. 
“[Nhim] finally played three consistent rounds,” Holt said. “I’m very hap­py for her to get her game together and put up good numbers.” 
With the fall season over, the Irish will now have sev­eral months to prepare, practice and make some ad­justments before they open up the more pivotal spring season. The opening tour­nament of the season, the Darius Rucker Intercolle­giate Classic, tees off in just over four months. With a season’s worth of results to work with and so much time to improve, Holt believes her team will have to utilize every single practice in or­der to excel next year. 
“We need to do a lot of things better for the spring, especially since the sched­ule will be challenging,” Holt said. “Our winter prac­tices must be productive.” 


Contact Jack Hefferon at           wheffero@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Young squad overtakes Big East rival Pittsburgh 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish hit the road for the first time this season, picking up their third victory 193-107 at Big East rival Pittsburgh on Friday. 
Prior to Notre Dame’s trip to Pittsburgh (1-2), Irish coach Tim Welsh said he believed his team could win as long as the fresh­men played a role in the victory, and the freshmen did in fact play a large part in Notre Dame’s third win of the season. 
The Irish (3-1) won 12 events, and a member of the freshman class was awarded gold in seven of those events. 
“It shows that we can come out and win the events that we want to win in order to take over the meet and not have to worry so much about the points we have to get,” Irish junior and co-captain Chris Johnson said. “We can switch up the lineup a lot and put people in races in which they don’t normally get to swim in when the freshmen are racking up points for us like that.” 
Irish freshman Cameron Miller tied Johnson for gold in the 100­yard breaststroke with a time of 
56.71. Miller also earned gold in the 200-yard breaststroke. 
Johnson earned a spot in the Notre Dame record books last season with a 55.63 time in the 100-yard breaststroke in the Big East championships. Irish senior co-captain Marshall Sherman said the team was impressed by Miller’s performance. 
“That was huge. He tied with Chris Johnson,” Sherman said. “That’s huge for a freshman to come in and give us [a great fin­ish]. [Johnson] was our top per­former last year. It’s great to have another breaststroker to come in and have a one-two punch for us.” 
Johnson shied away from any praise for his performance and credited the team’s success to the work ethic of the freshman class. 
“It shows that [the freshmen are] working, not just Cameron but all of them, and they’re ready to come out for the race,” he said. “[Cameron and I] could see each other side by side, but it’s just a coincidence that we tied.” 
Notre Dame freshman diver Michael Kreft earned gold in two events Friday, placing first in both the one-meter and three-meter dives. 
Irish junior Kevin Overholt, who has been rehabbing an in­jured shoulder, won two gold medals, finishing first in the 50-yard and 100-yard freestyle races. 
The meet was held at Trees Hall, the site of the 2012 Big East championships. Sherman said a dominant performance from the entire Irish squad and gold med­als from five different freshmen sparked Notre Dame’s confidence and increased the future expec­tations of this high-energy squad. 
“[Freshmen] always give us a close meet,” he said. “I think the whole team was surprised [about their performance],” Sherman said. “The coaches tried to get us pumped up and excited for the meet, being our first Big East meet. It was a great confidence boost for us. We won nearly every event, but that [gives us] great signs going forward.” 
The Irish will return to action Friday against Purdue at 6 p.m. at the Boilermaker Aquatic Cen­ter. 


Contact Megan Golden at             mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles shut out in final home game 
Observer Staff Report 

In Saturday’s Senior Day home game against a three-win Trine squad, the Belles missed a prime opportunity to clinch a .500 record and a 10-win sea­son. In a game delayed 45 min­utes by hail and a thunderstorm, Saint Mary’s (9-10, 5-10 MIAA) was shutout 1-0 by the Thunder (4-13-2, 2-11-2) despite posting a 10-4 edge on shots on goal. 
Following a scoreless first half, Trine scored the game’s lone goal just over a minute into the second half. Sophomore Kristin Elliot sent a shot across the goal box, where it went past Belles freshman goalkeeper Natalie Warner. 
The score would stand the remainder of the match, but the Belles received numer­ous chances to tie the game. In the second half, Saint Mary’s earned six corner kicks and took nine shots, but the Trine defense kept the Belles out of the net. Wegert recorded 10 saves over the course of the match. 
The match was also suspend­ed in the middle of the second half when an intense hail and lightning storm descended on the South Bend area. Players waited approximately 45 min­utes for the storm to pass and play to resume. 
The Belles received numerous scoring chances in the first half. Sophomore forward Kaitlin Teichman’s header was turned away in the goal box while an­other one of her shot’s fell off line. Teichman led the team with five shots, including two on goal. 
Meanwhile, Wegert saved a shot by junior midfielder Ash­ley Morfin’s in the 35th minute and the Belles were unable to capitalize on a rebound chance. Both Morfin and sophomore midfielder Mollie Valencia tied Teichman for shots on goal, re­cording two a piece. 
Although the Belles defeated Trine 2-1 in a road match Oct. 4, they could not complete the sea­son sweep of the Thunder. With the loss, the Belles now must upset Hope College, which is in fourth place in the MIAA, to fin­ish .500 for the season. 
The Belles’ final game of the season will take place at Hope College at 3 p.m. Tuesday. 

Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
MEN’S GOLF 

Veteran team looks to finish strong 

score of 216. 
Kubinski said he is look­ing for more consistency from the rest of his lineup to complement Scodro. 
“Max is so well-rounded and confident in the way he is playing. He is working on other parts of his game too,” he said. “The rest of the guys feel they have to get it out there and play better. If we miss a shot or two, we have to focus on recovering. They are excited to get out there and support him and the team.” 
According to Kubinski, the tournament provides an opportunity to close the year positively before the doldrums of winter etch a three-month gap in the golf season. 
“To us, this is the halfway point,” Kubinski said. “It’s like a bye week in football except it is three months in­stead of a week. We have the opportunity to finish well and get some momentum before we start working on things during the break. We are only one good tourna­ment win away from jump­ing into the top 25. The key is turning it around with a positive outlook.” 
Notre Dame will take to the course Monday for the first two rounds of the Royal Oaks Intercollegiate. 


Contact andrew Gastelum at           agstel1@nd.edu 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
A senior-laden squad will face a monumental task when it closes out the fall season at the Royal Oaks In­tercollegiate in Dallas Mon­day. 
The Royal Oaks Intercol­legiate, co-hosted by Baylor and SMU, poses a tough test for the defending Big East champions as the tourna­ment features eight teams in the top 50 of the latest Golf week ranki ng s. 
State), as well as fa­miliar foes in No. 25 Duke, No. 29 Iowa and Houston, a task Irish coach Jim Kubinski said will require a resolute focus from his entire team. 
“We try to take the same approach to every tourna­ment, but we just try to tell the guys that they need to maintain their focus and concentration on the task at hand,” Kubinski said. “We just have to take the same mindset into the tourna­ment and play confidently.” 

Despite a strong start to kick off the year, the Irish have faced adversity in the form of inconsistent scores that have led to middle-of­the-pack finishes. At this time last year, Notre Dame finished first or second in each of its fall tournaments and returned all five start­ers from the previous sea­son. 
“A few guys have taken a step back in order to im-
Notre Dame “We are only one good is set to face tournament win away from the last two jumping into the top 25. The national key is turning it around champi-with a positive outlook.” ons (No. 36 Texas A&M 
Jim Kubinski 
and Augusta 

Irish coach 
prove their game,” Ku­binski said. “It happens to Tiger Woods all the time, where play­ers make certain ad­ju st ment s and have to work on their game so they can get better down the 


Furnished Townhomes include: 
• 42’’ flat screen TV 
• Living and dining room sets 
• Furnished bedrooms with desks Now Leasingfor 2012-2013 

Furnished Only $425 per month per student Unfurnished Only $350 per month per student Choose from spacious 3, 4, or 5 bedroom townhomes 
with 1560 - 1860 sq. ft. floorplans 
. Local Ownership and Management . 
Lafayette Square 

Call (574)234-2436 to see furnished model  Townhomes  
*Lease must be signed by December 9, 2011. One signing bonus per lease.  423 Eddy Street  
www.kramerhouses.com  


Huskies 
continued from page 20 
points on their way to victory. 
“Those were some good plays by UConn and some miscom­munication on our part,” Brown said. “They were a team that was on fire to get a win. It was that kind of day. We struggled to get into any rhythm.” 
Senior Kristen Dealy led the Irish with 15 kills and 16 digs on the day. Freshman Jeni Houser added 13 kills while the Irish offense ran primarily through sophomore setter Mag­gie Brindock, whose 39 assists led the team. 
“Everybody was really disap­pointed against UConn,” Brown said. “We talked specifically about strong starts and strong finishes. That’s something we really struggled with on Satur­day.” 
Less than 24 hours later, the Irish recovered from the loss at Connecticut and dismissed last-place St. John’s (10-17, 1-9) in four sets. Though Brown ac­knowledged her team could play 
Rae 
continued from page 20 
shooting for at least three or four up there.” 
The individual performances of both Rae and Grady were particularly noteworthy, as the top finishes marked the second and third time Irish runners placed all-Big East honors in the last two seasons. Last year, former Irish runner Dan Jack­son placed 12th in the Big East championships. 
Overall, Cincinnati senior Eric Finan won the race with a time of 23:17.7, but as a team, the Bearcats faltered to an eighth place finish in the 14­team field. Villanova had a very strong team showing, earning top finishes in both the men’s and women’s races. Villanova placed six runners in the top 15 in the men’s race.  
“It was pretty incredible and definitely is something we want to shoot for as a team in the fu­ture,” Rae said. 
The Irish women had a strong team showing, with five run­ners contributing to team scor­ing. Junior Jessica Rydberg placed 18th, whiles sophomores Alexa Aragon and Kelly Curran, freshman Gabby Gonzales and senior Rachel Velarde all fin­ished in the top 35. 
But again Villanova took better, she said her team’s play in the third set was a sign of the team’s resilience. Trailing 21-11 in the third set, the Irish clawed back to take the set and a 2-1 lead that they would not relin­quish. 
“That series was huge for us,” Brown said. “It’s much harder to be down 2-1 than up 2-1. We don’t want to be in that situa­tion in the first place, but that’s the type of play our team is ca­pable of.” 
With four matches remain­ing before the start of the Big East tournament, the Irish sit tied with Syracuse at fifth in the conference. 
“We’ve been pretty disap­pointed with our play so far this year,” Brown said. “We’ve lost some matches that we’ve had every opportunity to win. But we have chances to turn it around. We want to give our­selves an opportunity to play in the Big East tournament.” 
The Irish return to the court against Seton Hall on Nov. 5 at the Purcell Pavilion. 


Contact Conor Kelly at                 ckelly17@nd.edu 

road. And experience will also help, too.” 
Meanwhile, senior Max Scodro continues to im­press, coming off his third top-10 finish of the year at the Kiawah Invitational in South Carolina on Oct. 18. The U.S. National Amateur Championship contender finished the two-day tour­nament at even par, tied for seventh after carding a home the medals, placing three runners in the top 15, includ­ing seniors Sheila Reid and Bogdana Mimic, who finished in first and second with times of 19:40.9 and 19:51.2, respec­tively. 
“You look at the results and we were only sixth, but I think we ran about as well as we could,” Irish coach Tim Connel­ly said. “That was probably our best performance one through seven all year. 
“They executed a really good race. We set up a race plan on how we wanted to race, and this was probably the first time, es­pecially the young ones, really came out and said, ‘This is what we need to do to run well.’ They competed really well.” 
Despite the solid finish, Con­nelly said both teams are com­mitted to continued improve­ment and better finishes. 
“All the athletes really felt like this was a step in the right direction,” Connelly said. “I don’t think it’s unrealistic to make it a goal to be in the top-two of the regional meet. It’s go­ing to be a challenge, but it’s a realistic thing.” 
Two weeks from now the Irish will try just that, as both teams travel to Toledo, Ohio, for the Great Lakes Regional competi­tion. 


Contact aaron Sant-Miller at           asantmil@nd.edu 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Monday, October 31, 2011 
Attempts 
continued from page 20 
1) had two close attempts to score in the fifth and 11th minutes from senior midfield­er Chris Sutton and senior de­fender Aaron Maund, but the first shot was deflected off the crossbar, and the second was saved by West Virginia junior goalie Pat Eaven­son. 



“We opened “People have to stop fifth save of up the game trying to solve the the day. great,” Clark problems individually, Clark said said. “We instead of relying the Irish were moving on teamwork” showed the 
the ball and same ef­connecting fort they al-
Bobby Clark 
passes in a ways have 
Irish coach 
nice way. It looked good. I don’t know, we lost our way a little bit after that.” 
The No. 25 Mountaineers (10-6-1, 6-3-0) concluded their in-conference portion of the season with Satur­day’s shutout over the Irish. West Virginia produced its first goal in the 24th minute off a short shot that escaped through Irish senior goal­keeper Will Walsh’s reach. The Moutaineers led 1-0 at halftime. 
In both the 49th and 54th minutes, Irish junior forward Ryan Finley had two succes­sive shots on goal, but both were effectively stopped by Eavenson. 
“We didn’t threaten [Eav­enson] as much as we would have liked,” Clark said. 
The Mountaineers upped 
Marquette 
continued from page 20 
around, Henderson scored in the ninth minute of the game, and a stout Irish defense held onto that lead for the remain­der of the contest. This con­trast demonstrates a complete shift in outlook for the Irish, according to Henderson. 
“I think our mindset alto­gether [has changed],” she said. “We’re going a game at a time. We went through a lot of adversity at the beginning of the season and I really think it came down to the fact that we realized we have to play for each other and we have to bring it together.” 
In spite of any questions or concerns that have surrounded this Irish squad in the midst of the losingest season of Hender­son’s collegiate career, she said that she and her teammates re­main confident, and their goal remains the same. 
“I know a lot of the under­classmen have told us that they want to do it for us, for the seniors,” she said. “So I re­ally think that we’re all on the same page now and everybody has the same goal and that’s just to get another national championship.” 
Henderson said defense is the key to that goal, and the Irish defense has certainly been stepping up recently, posting shutouts in five of their last eight outings. Though a common theme of the early season was difficulty integrat­ing newer players in with the upperclassman defenders, Henderson said the backfield has come together as a unit, apparently primed to peak at just the right time. 
their advantage to a two-goal margin in the 71st minute, as junior defender Grant Van De Casteele deflected a Moun­taineer shot in for an own goal. 
“Their second goal was a shot really going nowhere, but Grant deflected it from the opposite corner from where it was going,” Clark said. 
In the 87th minute, Maund sent the last shot on goal over to Eav­enson, who produced his 
throughout 
the season, 
but it was a 
misguided ef­
fort that re­sulted in the loss. 
“Goals affect games, and some days you just have to keep playing. People have to stop trying to solve the prob­lems individually, instead of relying on teamwork,” Clark said. “It was a little bit of a team malaise. You’ve obvi­ously got to hurry, but you’ve got to do it slowly, you’ve got to stay together as a team. I think.” 
The Irish have one game left in their regular season, an in-conference home contest against Seton Hall at Alumni Stadium. Notre Dame will kick off against the Pirates at noon Tuesday. 


Contact Molly Sammon at           msammon@nd.edu 
“The defense has been doing amazing with all the shutouts,” Henderson said. “I can’t say enough [about my teammates.] Just being able to watch them grow together and just being able to communicate in a dif­ferent way and keeping these shutouts coming has been amazing. 
“You win championships with the defense and I have so much respect for everything they’ve been doing, and not even only the defense that’s been playing in games but also the defense that play in prac­tice. We’ll be scrimmaging and everyone has a part of every­thing, whether you’re playing in games on the field or not. They push us to get better and vice versa, so it’s been really good.” 
The senior sloughed off any talk about record breaking, giving all the credit to her teammates. As the Irish move deeper into the post-season, Henderson made it clear the focus will be on one thing: win­ning. 
“I don’t really know that much about [the record] to be honest … but I am abso­lutely honored and I can’t say enough about how it’s not re­ally me getting those goals, it’s my teammates and I just hap­pen to be the one that’s getting them in,” she said. “If anything I’m just absolutely grateful for the players around me that are making it possible for that to even happen.” 
The Irish will now turn their attention to Louisville, again out to avenge an early season loss. The Big East semifinal will kick off Friday at 3 p.m. in Morgantown, W.V. 


Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
Skaters 
continued from page 20 

second month of the sea­son.” 
After starting out hot Fri­day, the team found itself facing a 2-1 deficit heading into the final period Satur­day. The Irish rally began on the power play with Lee, who one-timed his 10th goal of the year home to equal the score. That 10­goal count made Lee the highest scorer in college hockey this year. 
“Anders is always in the right place at the right time,” Jackson said. “He’s got a great shot and he just finds ways to score big goals for us.” 
While Lee may be one of the most feared scorers in the country, the game-win­ning goal came from one of the least heralded players on the team: senior center Patrick Gaul. After con­tributing just three points in his first three seasons, Gaul has four already this year, including his top-shelf wrist shot that sealed the deal on Saturday. 
“I’m definitely happy for him,” Jackson said. “He wouldn’t be in the position he’s in without the great attitude he’s had. He didn’t play at all last year, but he’s been working hard on the ice, and in the weight room, and it’s paying divi­dends for him. He’s not the biggest guy and he’s not the fastest guy, but he’s been taking advantage of the opportunity that’s been given to him.” 
After Gaul’s goal, the Irish successfully killed two more penalties and Johnson was called upon to make some big saves to secure the victory and the much-needed sweep. 
“It was a tough road weekend. Bowling Green was a tough opponent,” Jackson said. “It’s good to get out of there with two wins, and now we’ve got another test this weekend.” 
Notre Dame will travel to the upper peninsula for a series with Northern Mich­igan this Friday and Sat­urday. Game time on both nights will be at 7:35 p.m. 


Contact Jack Hefferon at           wheffero@nd.edu 


Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish advance to Big East semi’s with win 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Senior tri-captain and reign­ing Big East Offensive Player of the Week Melissa Henderson netted a school-record 24th match-winning goal to lift the Irish to a 1-0 victory over No. 5/9 Marquette on Sunday, sending Notre Dame to the Big East semifinals for the 15th time in 17 years. 
The quarterfinal matchup marked the second time Notre Dame has faced Marquette in just over a month, and in what the Irish hope will be a theme of the post-season, they got it done when it mattered most. 
Before Sunday, Notre Dame’s last game against the Golden Eagles ended in a heartbreak­ing fashion, as the Irish fought back from a two-goal deficit only to lose the ball on the overtime kickoff which led to a Marquette goal just 18 seconds into the extra period. This time 
see MARQUETTE/page 18 

Familiar feeling 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND splits pair of Big East games 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish traveled to the east coast for two matches over the weekend, taking on Connecticut and St. John’s. 
In what Irish coach Debbie Brown has described as a dis­appointing Big East season thus far for her team, the weekend proved to be a microcosm of the squad’s frustration as the Irish (13-9, 6-4 Big East) fell in a five-set heartbreaker to Connecticut 3-2 (24-26, 25-20, 25-22, 22-25, 16-14) before defeating the Red Storm 3-1 (25-19, 17-25, 25-22, 25-20) in Queens, New York. 
Brown saw the Irish lose three match points Saturday in the deciding fifth set as a spirit­ed Connecticut team prevailed. With the score 14-11 in favor of the Irish, a series of strong plays by Connecticut (13-12, 3-7) and miscues by Notre Dame helped the Huskies reel off five straight 
see HUSKIES/page 17 
HOCKEY 

Special teams shine in road sweep of Bowling Green 
By JACK HEFFERON business as the Irish (5-2-0, the top of the circle then power play is really starting all four of the Falcons’ pow-Sports Writer 3-1-0-0 CCHA) swept Bowl-found Lee parked on the far to click right now, ever since er play chances, including 
ing Green on the road for post for the tap-in goal. we put Maday up top on the an extended 5-on-3. 
When you’re number one, its first two-win weekend of After the teams traded first unit,” Irish coach Jeff “Our penalty kill also you’re expected to beat ev-the year. goals in the second period, Jackson said. “This week-played very well, and that’s eryone. Friday’s game against the Notre Dame was able to ex-end was really their first partly goaltending,” Jack-
Notre Dame opened the Falcons (4-3-1, 1-3-0-0) was ploit a 5-on-3 advantage in extended playing time, and son said. “[Junior] Mike season as the top-ranked a showcase of Notre Dame’s the third. Sophomore cen-they’re starting to get used Johnson played great for team in the country, but prowess on special teams. ter T.J. Tynan fed freshman to playing with each other.” us back there. The other slipped to No. 5 in the polls Sophomore forward Anders defenseman Robbie Russo, Opposite the power play part of it is our skaters, after splitting series with Lee opened the scoring for whose rocket shot gave him was the Irish penalty kill, and we’re starting to nar-No. 10 Minnesota-Duluth Notre Dame early in the first his first goal of his year and which was also a key fac-row down who we want out and Ohio State. This past period. With the man ad-gave his team its 3-1 vic-tor in Friday’s victory. there now, heading into the weekend though, the team vantage, senior right wing tory. The shorthanded unit held was able to take care of Billy Maday took a pass at “The chemistry on the Bowling Green scoreless in see SKATERS/page 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Offense sputters in shutout loss 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
With five shots on goal to the Mountaineers’ two and facing a strong opposing goal­ie, the Irish suffered a disap­pointing 2-0 loss against West Virginia at Alumni Stadium on Saturday. 
Inclement weather delayed the game for 90 minutes shortly following the team’s on-field presentations just before the initially-scheduled noon kickoff. 
“It was a strange game in many ways,” Irish coach Bob­by Clark said. 
The No. 14 Irish (8-4-4, 4-3­
see ATTEMPTS/page 18 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish finish sixth at Big East championships 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 

In a competitive field, both the Notre Dame men’s and women’s teams cruised to a sixth-place finish sat the 2011 Big East championships. 
The No. 29 Irish men’s squad was led by sophomore Martin Grady, who finished 10th in the eight-kilometer race with a time of 23:52.2. Notre Dame junior Jeremy Rae finished hot on his heels in 12th with a time of 23:55.4. Both runners earned all-Big East honors for their strong showing. 
Junior J.P. Malette and se­niors Jordan Carlson and Kelly Lynch also contributed to the scoring, finishing in less than 25 minutes.  
“We had a really good week of training [over fall break],” Rae said. “We were all feeling pretty confident. We had three solid workouts.” 
Yet as a team, there was a certain amount of disappoint­ment. 
“We wanted to get more than two of us in the top 15,” Rae continued. “We were 
see RAE/page 17 





