
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘They shared our sorrow’ 
Sullivan family 

Family selects speaks about son’s 
Horizons for Youth death for first time 
as Fund’s beneficiary 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
By MEGAN DOYLE  and 
Managing Editor 

SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor and Managing Editor 
In the year since the accident that took the life of junior vid-
In junior Declan Sullivan’s fa­eographer Declan Sullivan, the 
vorite movie “American Beauty,” University fell under the scruti­
a minor character said, “There’s ny of national media, was inves­
nothing worse than being ordi­tigated by the state of Indiana 
nary.” and paid more than $40,000 in 
This line was a motto for Sul­fines. 
livan before his death, one year But behind all of this was one 
ago today, and one his fam­family who spent the past year 
ily remembered as they made learning to cope with the loss 
plans to commemorate his life of a son and brother in the best 
through the Declan Drumm Sul­way they knew how: putting one 
livan Memorial Fund. foot in front of the other, one 
Barry Sullivan, Declan’s fa-day at a time. 
ther, said they wanted to use the “Bringing a child into the 
fund for a cause that would be world, it’s a profound change 
special to their son’s memory in your life. Losing a child like 
and their family. this, it’s equally profound,” Sul­
“We do want the memorial livan’s father, Barry, said. “It’s 
fund to be an ongoing memorial not something you get over, it’s 
to Declan, a way to kind of keep not something you put behind PAT COVENEY / The Observer his name alive,” Barry said. 
Barry Sullivan blesses the memorial in honor of his son, Declan Sullivan, on Saturday. The plaque see FAMILY/page 5 sits between the Guglielmino Athletic Complex and the LaBar Practice Field. see MEMORIAL/page 5 


Aftermath, investigations of fatal accident recounted 
By MEGAN DOYLE Field. He was transported to in the dorm chapel to begin to The day after the tower the homily at the Mass. As he News Editor M emo r i a l cope with the loss of a fellow fell, Director of Athletics Jack addressed the standing-room-Hospital in 
member of their dorm and a Swarbrick announced at a press only congregation, Doyle said One year ago today, the day South Bend, 
friend of many. conference that the weekend’s the stories in scripture con-began as an ordinary Wednes-where he 
Tonight, the residents of Fish-home football game against nected to Sullivan’s passion for day. later died. 
er will gather again for a dorm Tulsa would be dedicated to the storytelling through the lens of It ended with an unprece-University 
Mass at 10 p.m. in the chapel to junior’s memory. a camera. dented tragedy. President Fr. 
remember Sullivan. Residents That night, the Notre Dame “Declan Sullivan has told Junior Declan Sullivan died John Jen-
of Lewis Hall, home to Sulli-community gathered at the Ba-great stories. His life has been Oct. 27, 2010, after the scissor-kins noti­
van’s sister Wyn, will also at-silica of the Sacred Heart for a a truly great story,” Doyle said lift from which he was filming fied students tend the Mass. Mass of Remembrance. More in his homily. “Declan Sullivan football practice fell. He was a in an email The months following Sul-than 1,000 students filled the and Jesus Christ invite us into student videographer for the that night. livan’s death included the pro-church, and a crowd of 1,000 the greatest story, the story of football team. Hours af-cesses of both dealing with grief more stood outside in the night. Jesus Christ’s love ... that we 
Sullivan’s accident occurred ter Sullivan’s death, the mem-and investigating the causes of Vice President for Student Af­at 4:50 p.m. at LaBar Practice bers of Fisher Hall gathered the accident. fairs Fr. Tom Doyle delivered see SULLIVAN/page 4 


Committee discusses safety 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
The safety of students and area residents was a chief con­cern of South Bend community representatives during the Campus/Community Advisory Committee (CCAC) meeting Wednesday. 
Members discussed the up­swing in crime and how the community can come together to address the problem. 
Brian Coughlin, associate vice president for Student Af­fairs, said the University is concerned about the recent rise in crime. 
“This community has done a great deal, and we’ve done a lot to talk about neighbor re­lations and a number of other things, but I think that it’s time that we start to focus on crime against students and crime in those neighborhoods,” he said. 
Michael Carrington, a mem­ber of the St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Board, said local law enforcement is work­ing hard to address the prob­lem. 
While discussing how law enforcement officers are work­ing to identify groups and in­dividuals responsible for the criminal activity, CCAC mem­bers agreed students and local residents all need to be more cautious and aware of their surroundings. 
“We can’t be a soft target, we have to be ever-vigilant and keep our guard up,” Car­rington said. “People need to be careful, but the criminal justice system needs to re­spond and it needs to be a 

see SAFETY/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Cardinal addresses senators page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Cut loose for ‘Footloose’ page 8 u Men’s soccer defeats Providence page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Thursday, October 27, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH QUARTERBACK SHOULD START NEXT GAME? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Seamus Donegan  Chang Hwasul  Eric Donehue  Danielle Fasani  
sophomore Keough  freshman Dillon  freshman Carroll  sophomore Ryan  
“I want to say [freshman  “[Sophomore] Tommy Rees.”  “[Senior] Dayne [Crist].”  “Me!”  
Everett] Golson, but I’ll go with [sophomore]  
Tommy [Rees].”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
5-year-old backs car onto Ohio street 
MANSFIELD, Ohio — Au­thorities say a 5-year-old looking for her mother in Ohio backed a car out of the driveway, then called 911 for help. 
Mansfield police say Ame­leah Kegley backed the car out Monday evening after returning from school to an empty house. 
According to the Mansfield News Journal, her mother had gone to the hospital with an emergency and her father never got the message. 
Worried that her mother wasn’t home, Ameleah de­cided to look for her, start­ing her mother’s 1999 Lin­coln Navigator. It backed down the sloped driveway and came to a stop on grass 

LOCAL WEATHER 
across the street. 
The girl dialed 911, ex­plained the situation and asked for quick help getting the car back home, because she said her mom would be upset with her. 
Missing Tenn. dog turns up in Mich. 
DETROIT — Jim Arrighi last saw Petey, his 4-year­old Jack Russell terrier, in the backyard of his home in Erin, Tenn. 
That was in July, and the 73-year-old retired electri­cian had nearly given up on seeing his pet again when he learned the dog turned up safe about 500 miles away in suburban Detroit. 
A Michigan Humane Soci­ety volunteer was expected to return Petey to Arrighi on Thursday morning. 
“This is just a little town and everybody is buzz­ing about it,” said Arrighi’s daughter, Tyanne Morrison. 
Most of Erin’s roughly 7,000 residents know one another, and many of them would recognize Petey, which is why Arrighi, Morri­son and their friends suspect he was pooch-napped by an out-of-towner. 
Morrison believes Petey left his yard “and somebody picked him up.” 
Last week, a homeowner in Rochester Hills, about 20 miles north of Detroit, saw Petey in his backyard and took him to a Humane Soci­ety animal care center. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO and President, will give a presen­tation titled, “Foresight and Career Choice,” on career choice and Sprint’s company brand today at 3:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Busi­ness. 
Natalia Molina of the Uni­versity of California, San Di­ego will give a talk titled, “Re­lational Notions of Race: New Approaches to Immigration History,” today at 4:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall 210. The lecture is part of the speaker series “RACE: Critical Reflec­tions on Culture, Power and Change” sponsored by the In­stitute for Latino Studies. 
Allen Fisher, author of Singularity Stereo and Pro­posals: poem-image-commen­tary, will give a talk today at 
4:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 209. He will also read selections from his work tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in Hammes Bookstore. 
Iranian musician Mamak Khadem will perform to­night at 7 p.m. in the DeBar­tolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $8 for students. 
Harmonia’s fall a capella concert will take place to­night at 7 p.m. in the Wash­ington Hall Mainstage Au­ditorium. Tickets are $6 for students. 
Cardinal Mahoney will give a lecture titled, “Imag­ine A New Immigration Movement: It Starts with YOUth,” tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Emily Schrank  Kelsey Manning  
Anna Boarini  Katie Heit  
Tori Roeck  Joe Wirth  
Graphics  Scene  
Elisa DeCastro  Alexandra  
Photo  Kilpatrick  
Mackenzie Sain  Viewpoint  

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
Amber Galik 








CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thursday, October 27, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

STUDENT SENATE 



Cardinal addresses senators 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The future of the immigra­tion issue rests not in the hands of those in Washington D.C., but in the hands of today’s youth, a former archbishop said at Stu­dent Senate’s meeting Wednes­day. 
Cardinal Roger Mahony, archbishop emeritus of Los An­geles, asked the senators how many of them knew an undocu­mented student who attended their high schools. Approxi­mately half raised their hands. 
“We need you, you’re the ones who are going to get this done because you know personally people affected by our current policy which is very broken,” Mahony said. 
Mahony is currently advocat­ing the Dream Act, a bill that would grant legal residency to undocumented students who attend college, graduate and serve in the military for a mini­mum of two years. 
“This act looks at one seg­ment of undocumented people and that’s young people who were brought here at the age of 16 or younger,” Mahony said. “They did not make the choice to come here. They were brought here by parents or rel­atives.” 
These young people often graduate from high school and college, Mahony said, but have nowhere to go from there. 
“Once they finish college they are at the end of a dead end street because they have no So­cial Security number of legal status,” he said. “They can’t get a job that is equivalent to their education and training.” 
Mahony has spoken with many of these “dreamers,” in­cluding some attending Saint Mary’s College and Holy Cross College, and said he feels heart­broken about it. 
“They say to me, ‘What do I do when graduation comes?’ And I don’t have an answer,” he said. “I don’t have any next step to utilize what they have done and gone through to help them.” 
The Dream Act is a simple yet highly rewarding way to re­form the current immigration laws, Mahony said. 
However, the federal govern­ment did not pass the Dream Act when it was before Congress. Mahony said anti-immigration feelings are running high due to the economic downturn. 
“In 2000, no one was dis­cussing immigration because unemployment was at 3.9 per­cent and we needed all those people,” he said. “But every time there’s a recession, there is always a new focus on im­migration as a problem. In our country we’re really bent on blaming someone for our eco­nomic downturns, and we in­evitably turn to immigration.” 
Mahony said this constantly changing attitude is similar to the United States erecting a fence with two signs, one that says “No Trespassing” and an­other that says “Help Wanted.” 
For example, the United States claims it does not want or need more workers, Mahony said. However, the undocu­mented immigrants often per­form the jobs that many Ameri­cans refuse to do themselves. 
“If we moved all the stan­dards of regular U.S. employ­ees and the benefits and wages to agriculture, then a head of lettuce would probably cost $5,” Mahony said. “On one sense, we don’t want these people here. On the other hand we like our lettuce for 70 cents a head.” 
The last major immigra­tion law was the Immigration Regulation and Control Act of 1986, Mahony said. This act gave a limited amnesty to un­documented immigrants who had been living in the U.S., working and paying their bills for the past five years. 
Mahony said many church leaders asked the federal gov­ernment to include plans for the future in the act and the government promised to ad­dress that issue later, but never did. 
“Now we have 11 million un­documented living in the U.S. today, almost all of them liv­ing in blended families where some members are document­ed and some are not,” he said. “And we can’t move them out of the shadows.” 
The dreamers represent a very small portion of the un­documented, Mahony said, a portion whose talents and gifts are being wasted. 
In the meantime, he said the only advice he can offer these students is to remain in school despite the discouragement they often feel. 
“It is better to be educated than not educated,” he said. “As we move down the road and there’s an opportunity for you to become legal, and we’re going to get there, your having a college education is extreme­ly valuable.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


Director of folk choir speaks at Saint Mary’s 
By JULIE HARRIS 
News Writer 
Composer Steve Warner said it is exciting to watch differ­ent communities adapt and work with his song “Cross of Our Hope” in a lecture at Saint Mary’s on Wednesday evening. 
“Once you write a piece, it be­longs to the Church. They take the insight and wrap it around their own flavors,” he said. “That’s the Holy Spirit at work.” 
Warner, the founder and di­rector of the Notre Dame Folk Choir, composed the piece in honor of the beatification of Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau, who founded the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
“When I was asked to write a song to honor Blessed Moreau, I had to fulfill several things,” Warner said. “First, I was asked not to use his name in the piece, but rather look to his writing to find and write his message.  I was also asked to write it in as many languages as possible.” 
Warner said that “Cross of Our Hope” exists in English, Spanish and French. 
“The Holy Cross family em­braces several continents and many cultures,” Warner said. “Linguistically, the text had to be spot on.  The liturgical and musical parameters had to be respected.” 
Warner said that one of the hardest parts about writing the song was finding texts of Moreau’s to work with.
 “I finally stumbled upon a let­ter about the glory of the cross and sufferings of the world,” Warner said.  “Reading his let­ters, there is an unabashed zeal that he constantly shared with his community. It was my goal to create a piece that reflected that zeal.” 
Warner said that the re­frain of the piece reflects that sense of unbridled joy found in Moreau’s writing. 
“From the first note of the song, it tells you that we are moving forward. It is Gospel-oriented and evangelical,” War­ner said. “We are spreading the Gospel.” 
The writing process behind “Cross of Our Hope” took three and a half months, Warner said. 
“Writing a song is not just writing music. You are re­arranging people’s spiritual furniture,” he said. “You put prayer on their list. It’s very humbling.” 
Contact Julie Harris at jharri01@saintmarys.edu 
students can live in it.” Toppel also said an associa-
Safety 
tion of landlords has drafted an ordinance, to be submit-continued from page 1 ted sometime around January 2012, creating a landlord reg-strong response.” istry. 
Student government has been This registry would have a working to develop a connec-list of residences that can be tion between the student body used as student housing, and and local law enforcement, stu-will be updated to reflect oc­dent body president Pat McCor-cupancy changes in those resi­mick said. dences, she 
This year, “These meetings give us said.  
Notre Dame’s the opportunity to learn Landlord student gov-Mark Kram­
and to be in conversation 
ernment has er, of Kramer 
about issues that are 
organized a Properties, 
pressing to the community 
safety sum-agreed that 
and to bring different 
mit and an collaboration 
stakeholders in the 
off-campus in-was required formal meet-community the concerns to remedy and-g reet of students as they relate this problem. between law to community life.”   “People enforcement someti mes officials and ignore the 
Pat McCormick 
Notre Dame restriction if 
student body president 
students.  they like the 
McCormick said he was pleased the CCAC meetings provide a venue for the community to work togeth­er to address pressing issues, like student safety. 
“We had the opportunity to bring to the attention of the community that our top con­cern is the safety of students and trying to confront crime together, whether through par­ticular action steps or trying to facilitate relationships between students and law enforcement,” McCormick said. 
Members also examined the problem of students leasing off-campus housing that is not sanctioned to be the residence of more than two unrelated students.  
Director of South Bend Code Enforcement Catherine Toppel said many students are un­aware of this rule. 
“The problem they [students] run into is not knowing which properties are grandfathered and which aren’t,” she said. “One of the rules is that a lot of houses are under the rule that not more that two unrelated 
home or the area, but then they run the risk of being turned out in the mid­dle of the year,” he said. 
He suggested the creation of a list of houses eligible for stu­dent living, allowing students to check if their prospective house is on the list. 
CCAC members also dis­cussed plans for snow removal volunteer programs and the success of collaboration re­garding the recent taxi ordi­nance. 
CCAC, McCormick said, has been successful in addressing these issues affecting the Notre Dame community and the sur­rounding area because of the collaboration that it facilitates. 
“These meetings give us the opportunity to learn and to be in conversation about issues that are pressing to the com­munity and to bring to differ­ent stakeholders in the commu­nity the concerns of students as they relate to community life,” McCormick said. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Thursday, October 27, 2011 
for the decision to host practice outdoors Aug. 26, 2011: Notre Dame launches the March 8, 2011: The University installs 

Oct. 27, 2010 – 
on the day of Sullivan’s death. 
a remote video system at the football 
UpRight! campaign to promote aerial lift practice fields to replace its elevated 
safety in conjunction with the Indiana 
Nov. 1, 2010: University and student 
scissor lifts. 
Department of Labor. 
government representatives attend 
Sullivan’s funeral in Buffalo Grove, Ill. 
Oct. 27, 2011 
Sept. 17, 2011: The annual Fisher Hall Roof-sit Safety and Health Administration (IOSHA) March 15, 2011: The Indiana Occupational raises over $4,600 for the Declan Drumm 
Oct. 27, 2010: Junior Declan Sullivan dies Nov.  5, 2010: University President Fr. John finds Notre Dame guilty of six violations Sullivan Memorial Fund. 
when the video tower from which he was Jenkins takes responsibility for Sullivan’s in relation to Sullivan’s accident. The 
filming football practice fell. 
death and announces an external University faces $77,500 in fines and enters Oct. 22, 2011: Friends and family gather to 
He was 20. 
investigation into the accident. 
dedicate a memorial to Sullivan between the Guglielmino Athletics Complex and the discussions with IOSHA on the violations. 
Oct. 28, 2010: Director of Athletics Jack Nov. 2, 2010: The University’s Financial April 18, 2011: Jenkins announces the results LaBar Practice Field. 
Swarbrick announces a University Management Board establishes the Declan of the University’s investigation into 
investigation into the causes of Sullivan’s Sullivan Memorial Award, a scholarship in Sullivan’s death. The report shows Oct. 26, 2011: The Sullivan family announces 
death in a press conference. 
Sullivan’s name. 
that the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial for the accident. 
Notre Dame is collectively responsible Fund will contribute to Horizons for Youth, 
Oct. 30, 2010: The Irish football team and fans Feb. 11, 2011: Proceeds from the I-Domer­a Chicago organization committed to 
honor Sullivan with shamrock decals and Rod sledding race benefit the Declan July 1, 2011: The University reaches a helping students graduate high school. 
a moment of silence at Saturday’s home Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund settlement with IOSHA, agreeing to take a 
game. In a post-game press conference, established by the Sullivan family in Oct. 27, 2011: Fisher Hall celebrates a number of steps to prevent future accidents 
Irish coach Brian Kelly takes responsibility their son’s name. 
and to honor Sullivan’s memory. 
memorial Mass in honor of  Sullivan. 


Sullivan 
continued from page 1 
are loved and that we are never truly alone.” 
The atmosphere at that Satur­day’s game was somber. When the crowd stood for a moment of silence in Sullivan’s honor, the only sound in the Stadium was the wind whipping against the American flag. 
During the game, the team played with shamrock decals bearing a small “DS” on their helmets, and many students wore buttons with the same symbol. 
In a post-game press confer­ence, Irish coach Brian Kelly took responsibility for the deci­sion to host outdoor practice on the day of Sullivan’s death de­spite windy conditions. 
“We have systems in place to make certain and that deal with issues of safety. Clearly in this instance, they failed,” Kelly said at the time. 
Sullivan’s funeral was held Nov. 1, 2010, in his hometown of Buffalo Grove, Ill. 
On Nov. 5, 2010, Jenkins sent an email to the student body in which he took full responsibil­ity for Sullivan’s death. 
“We are conducting an inves­tigation and we must be careful not to pre-judge its results, but I will say this: Declan Sullivan was entrusted to our care, and we failed to keep him safe,” Jen­kins said in the email. “We at Notre Dame — and ultimately I, as President — are responsible. Words cannot express our sor­row to the Sullivan family and to all involved.” 
Jenkins also announced the appointment of Peter Likins, former University of Arizona president, to lead an external review of Notre Dame’s investi­gation into Sullivan’s death. 
While both the University and the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Association (IOSHA) investigated the accident, Notre Dame installed a remote video operating system at the football practice fields. The system was operational when the team be­gan spring practice in March. 
On March 15, 2011, the four­and-a-half month IOSHA inves­tigation into Sullivan’s death came to a close. 
IOSHA found Notre Dame guilty of six violations, and the citations resulted in fines total­ing $77,500. The violations in­cluded a “knowing” violation, meaning IOSHA found the Uni­versity knowingly exposed its employees to unsafe conditions. The Indiana Department of La­bor reported the University was fined $55,000 for this violation. 
IOSHA also issued five “seri­ous” violations with fines total­ing $22,500. These violations included failure to properly train student employees how to operate a scissor lift. 
“We found that Notre Dame did not establish and maintain conditions of work that were reasonably safe for its employ­ees, that were free from rec­ognized hazards that caused or were likely to cause serious injury,” Indiana Department of Labor Commissioner Lori Tor­res said in a March 15 press conference. 
“In addition, by directing an untrained, student videogra­pher to use the scissor lift dur­ing a period of time when the National Weather Service had issued an active wind advisory … the University knowingly ex­posed its employees to unsafe conditions.” 
The University accepted the violations and entered conver­sation with IOSHA about how to improve occupational safety. 
One month later, Jenkins re­leased the University’s own re­port on Sullivan’s death. Based on the information in the re­port, he said Notre Dame was “collectively responsible” for the accident. 
The report also identified eight recommendations for fu­ture action, including a new wind speed standard to operate lifts on campus. Jenkins said all of these recommendations would be put in place as soon as possible. 

As part of the settlement reached by Notre Dame and IO­SHA, Jenkins also announced a campaign in conjunction with the Indiana Department of La­bor to provide better safety in­formation for those who work with aerial lifts at other univer­sities, colleges and high schools around the country. 
In addition to educational projects elsewhere, Notre Dame continues to remember Sul­livan on campus. The Univer­sity announced Wednesday in a press release it would fund an endowed scholarship in Sulli­van’s name. 
The Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Scholarship will as­sist students who are not only in financial need, but who also have demonstrated Sullivan’s characteristics, such as an in­terest in filmmaking, service to under-privileged youth and creative writing, according to the press release. 
The Financial Management Board, part of the Student Union, is also working to estab­lish another scholarship in Sul­livan’s name. 
Despite the controversy sur­rounding the accident, the Sul­livans continue to heal one year later. 
The Sullivan family gathered Saturday before the football game against USC for a dedica­tion of a memorial to Sullivan. A plaque, two benches and sev­eral trees sit between the Gug­lielmino Athletics Complex and the LaBar Practice Field. 
At the dedication, Declan’s 
Brandon Keelean I The Observer 
mother, Alison Sullivan, said the University has stood by her family throughout the past year. 
“I wanted to thank [Jenkins] for giving us a lot of leeway with this and really letting us do what we thought would best memorialize our son and broth­er,” Alison said. “And [Doyle] for really helping us every inch of the way with everything from the moment of the acci­dent through the past year.” 
The memorial lies within sight of where Sullivan’s acci­dent took place one year ago. 
“We didn’t envision anything could be more perfect,” Alison said. “I think if [Declan] could see this, he would be in awe. He would say, ‘Gee, this is amaz­ing. I love this. It’s epic.’” 
Contact Megan Doyle mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 27, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Dame’s campus in the year didn’t leave campus, but I feel do not happen again. grown closer and their outlook since Sullivan’s death than they like it almost would have been As part of Notre Dame’s on life has changed in the year 
Family had in any previous years. worse not being here,” she said. agreement with the Indiana Oc-since Sullivan’s death. 
“I do remember thinking right “If I’m having trouble, people cupational Safety and Health “As cliché as it sounds, liv­continued from page 1 after Declan died, ‘Will this be a understand. There’s a lot of sup-Administration (IOSHA), the ing every moment to the fullest sad place for us? Can we ever port.” University started a campaign and making the most of the time you. You do get used to it.” come back here and feel happy Wyn, who was a freshman at to raise awareness about scis-that we have here, we keep that For the first time since the again?’ And I’m glad that we the time of the accident, said sor lift safety. Barry said his in better perspective than be-
accident, the Sullivan fam-did,” he said. “They talk about she cherishes the few months family was supportive of this fore,” she said. 
ily spoke to the media and said the Notre Dame family, and we she shared with her brother at venture and he contributed a But on the one-year anniver­
they do not blame the University definitely feel a part of that.” Notre Dame. video clip to the campaign to sary of Sullivan’s death, his par-
for their son’s death. Sullivan’s sister, Wyn, is a “It helps me to remember help raise awareness. ents and siblings will take a few “We saw people who were in sophomore at Notre Dame and him, being here and being in Wyn said enforcing improved moments to remember all that 
pain like we were in pain, but chose to stay at the University this atmosphere,” she said. “He safety standards is more impor-has occurred in the last year. 
their’s was compounded by this despite the loss of her brother. wouldn’t have wanted me to tant than any monetary fines Wyn will stay on campus, 
sense of responsibility,” he said. She came back to campus the leave.” the University paid. while Barry, and his wife Ali­
“Any inclination that we might Sunday following her brother’s For the Sullivan family, the “The University has so much son, will attend Mass at Old St. 
have felt quickly dissipated. death, one day after his funer-most important result in the money, it probably wasn’t a very Patrick’s Church in Chicago, 
They shared our sorrow.” al, and returned to classes that wake of Sullivan’s death was big hit to them. But that’s not where they were married and Barry said his family has Monday. not pointing fingers, but rather the important part to me,” she Declan was baptized. 
spent more time on Notre “A lot of people asked why I making sure similar accidents said. “As far as any monetary “I think all of us are kind of value, how can you put a value taking a break away from our [on his life]?” normal routine,” Barry said. While Notre Dame conduct-“Just try to be together and put ed an internal investigation ourselves in a setting where we into Sullivan’s death, negoti-can reflect.” ated with IOSHA and eventually Wyn said she hopes the Notre came to an agreement, the Sul-Dame community will remem­livans adjusted to a life where ber her brother’s originality the dinner table is always miss-and strive to emulate his free­ing a setting and the family is dom of expression. forever one member short. “He didn’t care what anyone Wyn said when she thinks else thought, he was just going of her brother, she remembers to be himself. Some people can goofy times they had — like never do that,” she said. “So I when he tried on a female Santa think being able to do that and costume or the year she and her kind of remind the student body younger brother, Mac, got Sul-about embracing their inner livan footsie pajamas for Christ-self and letting their personal-mas. ity actually come through is re­“It was funny watching him ally important.” run around the house in those,” she said. Contact Sarah Mervosh at Wyn also said her family has smervosh@nd.edu 
disadvantaged backgrounds 

Memorial 
get the kind of education and opportunities that people like continued from page 1 me, my wife … have been able to enjoy,” Barry said.  As part of the program, men-The Sullivans discussed a tors help students with school-number of options for the fund work, take them on educa­and finally settled on Horizons tional trips and work with for Youth, a Chicago organiza-them during the summer to tion that provides mentoring ensure their academic skills and tutoring for students in low-are not lost over the break. income families, as the primary The Sullivans also set up an beneficiary of the memorial fund. annual fundraiser to benefit the “We wanted to have some-memorial fund and the Horizons thing that was local and maybe for Youth Program. Barry said something that we can get in-the event, “No Ordinary Eve­volved in ourselves, if not right ning,” will be a night of dancing, away, maybe sometime down drinks and auctions to celebrate the road a little bit,” Barry said. Declan’s life, and will take place Horizons for Youth works to April 28 at Chicago’s Navy Pier. give underprivileged students   The title of the evening is anoth­the ability to pursue a college er reference to Sullivan’s favorite education, he said. movie quote and his unique spirit. “Their mission is really to “That was kind of Declan’s man-
try to see that children from tra, to be anything but [ordi­nary],” Barry said. “So we kind of came up with that name with that quote in mind.” 

In commemoration of the one-year anniversary of Sullivan’s death, University President Fr. John Jenkins announced in a press release he will write to members of the Notre Dame fam­ily, inviting them to contribute to the memorial fund. 
Notre Dame also announced an endowed scholarship, sepa­rate from the family’s fund, which will assist students with fi­nancial need who demonstrated traits similar to those that made Sullivan original. 
Barry hopes this scholarship, which is set to exist for years to come, will be his son’s legacy at Notre Dame. 
“Legacy is an interesting word … the idea of students of alumni returning to their parents’ alma mater as legacies,” Barry said. “Declan, he won’t have that kind of legacy.” 
But Barry said the students whom the scholarship assists could serve to keep Sullivan’s memory alive at Notre Dame.
   “Let this be Declan’s legacy.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu and Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, October 27, 2011 
DO NOT PLACE ANYTHING IN THIS AREA 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Synesthesia 
To say that my senses aren’t too sharp is an understatement. I have horrible hearing, sub-par sight and an almost complete lack of smell — not to mention my notoriously bad hand-eye coordination. Instead, I have an extra sense: I can see sound. 
I am one of few people who have a neurological condi­tion called synes­thesia. Though not entirely useful, it’s certainly interest­ing to talk about. 
“Synesthesia” comes from the Greek “syn,” mean­ing “together,” and “aesthesis,” meaning “sensation.” It is believed that 1 in 2,000 people have the condition, whether they know it or not. There are many types of synesthesia that combine different senses. In fact, most synesthetes have more than one form 
— I have two. 
One of my forms is grapheme/color: all my letters and numbers inherently have their own colors. When I look at a number, I not only think of its quanti­tative value but also see, in my mind’s eye, its color. “A” is yellow, “2” is red and my favorite, “17,” is iridescent purple. And though illogical, I hate the number “3” just because it is orange. 
My sound/color synesthesia is even more fascinating: I can see sounds — and more interestingly, music. 
Let me clarify what I mean by “see.” While there are synesthetes called “projectors” who actually see colors and shapes in their field of view, I do not. I see colors and shapes the same way you recall and get lost in an in­tense memory. What I see is automatic and uncontrollable, but I can decide whether or not to pay attention to it. 
To me, a person’s voice appears as a long, colored, textured band that rises and falls with vocal fluctuations. The higher the sound, the lighter the color and vice versa. On the other hand, a crowd of people talking creates a field of what looks like colored, textured brush strokes, each a fraction of a dif­ferent person’s voice. 
The best part of synesthesia is when I listen to music. While sounds tend to be clear and vivid, music creates multidimensional landscapes with lay­ers upon layers of the different facets of a single sound. These images are so vivid at times that I literally get lost in the music. In fact, I often remember what a song looks like well before I can recall its melody. 
My favorite music is heavily manipu­lated or electronic, specifically synths. To me, the synths appear as a series of densely positioned, taut liquid filled wires in a gradient of warm glowing hues. They fluctuate and bounce with the sounds of the synth, each wire representing a different dimension of that singular sound. And that is just one of the many images I see during a single song. 
But all music takes on these colors and forms, which is often my excuse for listening to bad music. It may sound like crap, but it sure looks nice. 
So now that you know what synes­thesia is, maybe you know that you have it! And if you do, we should all congregate and start a cool club or something. 
Contact Marina Kozak at mkozak1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Marina Kozak 
Graphic 
Designer 
Channeling St. Paul 
St. Paul, in his letters to the early Christian communities, often seems strangely preoccupied with himself and his labors, a fact that leaves me scratching my head — as in, “Did he 
really just write  
that?!” In Paul’s  
First Letter to the  Fr. Lou DelFra  
Thessalonians, he  
greets his listen- Faithpoint  
ers with this one:  

“We loved you so much, that we were determined to share not only the Gos­pel, but our very selves as well.” 
Did he really just say that? That his love for the Thessalonians is so immense that they deserve some­thing more than the Gospel of Jesus Christ? And furthermore, that this “something more” turns out to be St. Paul himself?! Is he an egomaniac? Surely these are strange words from an apostle who, we know, ultimately cared about nothing else other than the Gospel. What is he suggesting? 
I offer that St. Paul is suggesting something eminently motivating for us, especially as we try to keep the engines revved here at the midpoint of the semester. This is better than Red Bull. Better than “Crazy Train.” 
St. Paul is rather preoccupied with work in his letter to the Thessalo­nians. “You do recall, don’t you,” he asks this community where he had preached some time ago, “all our toil and drudgery that we performed on your behalf? Working day and night, night and day, to relieve you of your burdens.” Why all this recollection of his daily labors? Could it be that his preaching of Jesus Christ is not enough? 
Perhaps this will shed some light: When I was teaching high school religion, there were days when I was 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. humorist, novelist & short story author 
just on fire — I was in the zone and everything was working. I could feel it the moment class started: the kids were uncharacteristically tuned in; I was en­ergized and full of charisma. One day, before I knew it, I was standing on top of my desk, screaming about the Gospel of John like a Southern Baptist. 
Of course, most days were not like that. Most days, I preached the Gospel like a nervous, naive, under-prepared new teacher who didn’t dare look up from his lecture notes for fear of what he would find his students doing to keep themselves entertained. In fact, during my first year, most days were like that. 
So one day I asked my mentor, Fr. Jim Flynn, what tricks he had come up with over the years to keep his students locked in during religion class. Frankly, I was desperate for a flashy shortcut — some game he played to win them over, a cure-all method of discipline that kept his class spellbound, pizza maybe — I didn’t really care. I just needed help. 
Fr. Flynn had an answer ready and waiting for me, though it hardly bowled me over at the time. He told me that his trick was to grade his students’ home­work and prepare the next day’s lessons right after school, in his classroom, with the lights on and his door open. 
I waited for the punch line. It never came. That was it. 
When I asked him why this helped, he said, “Because when the students finish their sports practices or club meetings and are waiting to catch their rides home, they see me in there, every night, two, three hours after school ends, grading their papers and prepar­ing their classes for the next day.” Fr. Flynn believed that this witness, this daily labor — simple, powerful — day in and day out, convinced his students of the Gospel he preached, some days like a Southern Baptist slain by the Spirit, most days like a regular old laborer, just being faithful and getting the job done for others. 
St. Paul writes to the Thessalonians what I believe Fr. Flynn’s life testi­fied to: “We loved you so much that we were determined to share not only the Gospel, but our very selves as well.” It’s as if Paul is saying, “The Gospel we preach is just this: that Christ came down to earth, took on our flesh and then labored in it, day in and day out, to give his life away for others. If that’s the Gospel we preach, then to be persua­sive, that’s the Gospel we must live.” 
God’s grace, of course, is not the result of our work, nor do we earn God’s love — an unconditional gift — by our performance. But our work, our daily toil, our studies and our service do seem to be favored sites of God’s grace. Our daily labors, faithfully, earnestly engaged, are ordinary — and thus om­nipresent — occasions where Christ’s gift of himself to the world becomes manifested in our act of giving our­selves away in labor. 
In these sometimes toilsome mid-semester days, we pray for the grace to work hard, not for ourselves, but for others. There is the deepest source of motivation and energy here — just ask the tireless St. Paul. In taking on our daily labor with a full heart and a generous spirit, we give flesh to the self-giving Christ who dwells inside us, and we make his Gospel known to the world. 
Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is the Director of Pastoral Life for ACE and a member of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 


WEEKLY POLL 
What are you going to be for Halloween? 
Edward Cullen My orgo professor Snooki I just want free candy ... 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 

Thursday, October 27, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Daisy, daisy
DO NOT PLACE ANYTHING IN THIS AREA 
“Uh, tell Jon I’m running late!” “Here’s your message to Jon, are you ready to send it?” “Yeah, that’s perfect. Also, I have to meet Sarah at 5 p.m. tomorrow and again the week after.” “Okay, I’ve sched­uled your meeting, Blake J. Graham note that you have another meeting Erudite that overlaps. Do Techno-Lust you want me to schedule it any­way?” “Oh, ****, move dinner with Joshua to 6:30.” “Watch your language, Blake … I’ve moved dinner with Joshua to 6:30 p.m.” “Thank you, Siri.” “Your wish is my command.” 
On Monday, Oct. 24, John McCarthy, the father of Artificial Intelligence, died. McCarthy coined AI in 1956 as “the science and engineering of making intelligent machines.” At this point, his idea was purely skeptical; nonetheless, science and fear-inspired science fic­tion split apart to create distinct public impressions of conscious machines. In a paper titled, “Computing Machinery and Intelligence,” Alan Turing proposed the question: “Can machines think?” 
He answered the quintessential ques­tion by developing a test in which a hu­man blindly interacts with two users — one human, one computer — and has to determine which has real intelligence. If a machine can convince a human it’s genuine, then it is intelligent. 
In 1968, Stanley Kubrick portrayed humanity’s impending irrelevance in the cult classic, “2001: A Space Odys­sey.” HAL 9000, the onboard computer of Discovery One, a ship running an in­terplanetary mission to Jupiter, makes the decision to terminate all humans aboard to preserve the integrity of the mission — homicidal justice for the bet­terment of a cause. 
When these impressions combined, technology began to terrify people. While computer manufacturers were striving to develop technology to aid and benefit human life, the populace saw cruel, dark, electric machines with the intent to replace humans. It seemed we were doomed to become inconse­quential automatons subject to compu­tational will. 
The year 2001 came and passed — technology still deferred to humans. Talking willful robots hadn’t run us out yet. But the seeds of such a future had taken root years prior. Mirroring human intelligence and placing it in silicon is a monstrous task. 
On Oct. 14, Apple’s iPhone 4S launched with a virtual assistant named Siri, an intelligent machine for the mass consumer market. Siri is the culmination of over 40 years of research and development. In 1966, DARPA funded SRI International to develop “computer capabilities for intel­ligent behavior in complex situations.” 
Since the 1960s, SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center has formed a super-team of the most highly trained professionals in the AI field (including research teams from Carn­egie Mellon University and Stanford 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Raise an X for X 
Notre Dame Family, 
Two weeks ago, the Zahm community was given the devastating news that one of our brothers, Xavier Murphy, had lost his month-long battle with leukemia. Xavier, a 2011 graduate of Notre Dame and a four-year resident of Zahm House, was a Notre Dame man in every way. He was a political science major, a Zahm­bie, a top football manager and a loyal son of Notre Dame. The stories of his suf­fering make us all proud to have known him and would make anyone else proud to have shared this University with him. 
Zahm now wishes to honor the memory of Xavier — but we need your help. During the Celtic chant of every football game, the men of Zahm typically raise the controversial “X” into the air, refusing to act out the cheer. Most see the “X” as just another way for Zahm to bring attention to itself, a belief not too far off the mark. This Saturday against Navy, however, the “X” means so much more. We ask you, Xavier’s fellow students of Notre Dame, to join us as we “Raise an X for X” during every Celtic chant in the first quarter. 
We do not call upon you as men of Dillon, women of Lewis or even former students. In times of need, we are all sons and daughters of Notre Dame, our Mother. When you raise an “X” this Saturday, it won’t be to spite anyone, it won’t be to support Zahm ... it will be to let a mother know what X meant to our dorm, our community, our University. It will show what Notre Dame does when she loses a son. 
When we initially embarked on this campaign, we hoped to give Xavier a ray of hope as he watched the game from his hospital bed in central Indiana. Upon granting us her permission to continue with our campaign after her son’s death, Mrs. Murphy charged us with a new mission: Make it bigger. Make it better. With Xavier looking down on us from Heaven, we intend on doing just that. 
While Xavier sat in his hospital bed, his mother reached out to our dorm. She told us how brave X was — as if we expected anything different. He took every treatment with a smile, never lost his sense of fight and became a source of com­fort and courage to those who watched him suffer. In his mother’s words, “Xavier has reminded me to not only be humble and to accept my weaknesses, but that I also have the strength to help him bear his cross.” In his moment of suffering, X walked as Christ. Nothing in this world could make you more of a Notre Dame man. Please honor his memory and raise an X for X. 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Charlie Harig 
senior Zahm House Oct. 26 
Daniel Duffey 
senior Zahm House Oct. 26 
Luke Lennon 
senior off-campus Oct. 26 
University). They broke down seemingly insurmountable barriers in the process of creating a entity that could pass the Turing test and fool a human. But the R&D theory and technology timeline never matched. In previous prototypes, there were too many break points. Now the time is ripe. Processing power, con­nectivity and AI development intersect­ed and Siri was born. 
While dictating to devices isn’t new 
— the barrier of voice to text recogni­tion had previously been broken by Nuance Communications — communi­cating with technology required clean syntax and perfect enunciation. Siri blends voice recognition with a natural language interface, personal context awareness and an ecosystem for ser­vice delegation. When prompted, Siri analyzes conversation based on loca­tion, task, time and dialog. This allows it to complete tasks, interact and learn without skipping a beat. You talk to it as you would a friend and it responds just the same. 
Verbal dialogue is the fourth, most human, interface with technology. We’ve progressed from typing to click­ing to touching and now to speaking. In no way do I predict that speaking will negate the other interfaces, but rather I note it as an approach to a holistic human model for interaction. We write, read, touch, talk and listen to each other. Now our devices can, too. 
Siri is a far-from-perfect starting point. In over a week of use, I’ve seen its triumphs and limitations grow clear. 
While some tasks are made easier with Siri, others are better completed with­out voice. A lot of this has to do with the way the service sends information back and forth from the ecosystem of knowledge (from where Siri’s answers come). As the technology develops, more and more services will be allowed into Apple’s walled-off garden and Siri’s usefulness will take off at an astro­nomical rate. 
While Artificial Intelligence may not be entirely here yet, an iota of sophis­ticated machine intelligence is. Now that a droplet of the technology exists in the consumer market, its ripples will quickly proliferate. 
After 40 years of research and de­velopment, we now have the ability to trick ourselves, if only for a moment, to believe mankind is not the only intel­ligent being out there. It’s alien technol­ogy from our imagined future, de­scended on earth and rooted in silicon. It’s interaction with machines, as man interacts with one another. And most importantly, it’s just the beginning of a timeline where man and machine are wed on a human playing field. 
All technology is singing — terrified or excited, ready or not — “give me your answer, do.” 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
Perspectives on tradition 
I think we forget what tradition is sometimes at Notre Dame. Age does not make a tradition. The “Play Like a Champion Today” sign was put up by Lou Holtz. The leprechaun became Notre Dame’s mascot in 1965. The first time we wore green jerseys under Knute Rockne in Oct. 8, 1921, we lost against Iowa. Should we have stopped wearing green jerseys? 
The mascot, color of the jersey, shininess of the helmet, signs hung in the stadium or songs played over the PA system do not win or lose football games. At the end of the day, I believe Notre Dame’s football legacy is about winning. We have no reason to stick our noses out at conferences like the Big 10 and SEC because we haven’t won a national championship or lost less than three games in a season for over 20 years. Getting angry about songs that get students excited, even though we are losing, doesn’t make sense to me. 
There have been numerous condescending editorials written by alumni toward our student section displayed on these pages. We get excited with a little music, and now the alumni are unhappy with the music. Winning football games is the cure to the anger, not any of the frills. What I was most upset about is how the entire stadium, except the student section, began to head for the exits with six minutes left. In particular, the gold seats at the 50-yard line behind the away team bench was near empty. Tradition? 
Thomas Voutsos 
sophomore Knott Hall Oct. 26 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, October 27, 2011 

MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Assistant Scene Editor 
“Footloose” is back, modern but still dance-tastic 
It’s hard to remake a classic, to capture the feeling that stole the hearts of so many fans. But Craig Brewer’s 2011 remake of “Footloose,” the 1984 film that featured Kevin Bacon showing off his best moves, is a fitting tribute to the original and a good modern adaptation. 
This remake features Kenny Wormald in his first starring role as Ren McCormack, a city kid who moves to a small town and shakes things up.  This time around, though, Ren is from Boston, instead of Chica­go, and he brings with him bit­ing Yankee sarcasm. But he still ends up in Bomont, Ga., a small, country town where dancing and loud music is prohibited, a problem for the agile Ren who loves to dance. 
He finds himself drawn to the preacher’s daughter, Ariel (Julianne Hough), the rebel child who hates the moralizing laws her father (Dennis Quaid) spearheads. She has a boy­friend, though, who doesn’t take kindly to Ren’s obvious attrac­tion for his girl. Ren, though, has his own crew sticking up for him, Willard (Miles Teller), the naïve but lovable redneck and Woody (Ser’Darius Blain), the captain of the football team. 
Ren tries to bring change to the town and get the girl by championing an abolition of the dance ban. He wants to have a senior prom and he stands up in front of the town council, quot­ing scripture, to try and con­vince them to let the teenagers of Bomont live a little. Ren even­tually gets to bring his girl to her first non-church-sponsored dance, which is not without dra­ma or some impressive dance moves. 
Overall, the movie is a fan­tastic modernization of the 80s classic. As great as Kevin Bacon was in those tight jeans and skinny tie, the movie just feels more relatable with the updates. Although some of the dancing seems like pander­ing to the “Step Up” fan crowd, most stays true to the original film. 
Wormald plays his first lead role well. His Boston accent comes and goes, but his wit and rebel spark are always there. Though his acting performance won’t be winning any Oscars, his angsty, sarcastic teen por­trayal is pretty spot on and his dancing more than makes up for any lack of acting talent.  
The only big disappointment in his performance was the warehouse dance scene.  The iconic scene is ruined slightly in the remake by the choice of music.  In the 1984 version, Ba­con vents his anger to “Never” by Moving Pictures.  Wormald, however, dances away his an­ger to “Catch Hell Blues” by The White Stripes.  While the tune by The White Stripes is definite­ly great venting music, it doesn’t really fit the dance moves Wormald copies from Bacon. 
Hough is likeable as Ariel and she plays the wild child char­acter well, especially opposite Quaid as her serious preacher father. A real standout however is Teller as Willard. He truly captures the innocence and naiveté of Willard and steals scenes with his comic lines. It’s hard to not leave the movie the­ater a little bit in love with ei­ther Ren or Willard. 
“Footloose” is worth the trip to the movies and a relaxing night out with friends or a date. The dance scenes make you want to get up and bust a move in the aisles or find the nearest country western bar. So don’t wait, cut loose a little for this remake. 
Contact Mary Claire o’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 

“Footloose” Paramount Pictures 
Starring: Kenny Wormald, Julianne Hough Directed By: Craig Brewer 

ROSS FINNEY 
Scene Writer 
We’re never gonna stop Na­than Williams. Never. He re­minded us of this fact in the chorus of the of 2010’s “King of the Beach” title track, and he reminds us once again in the outro to “I Wanna Meet Dave Grohl,” the most hyped track from Wavves’ newest EP “Life Sux.” 
But all this begs the question, who’s trying to stop him, and from doing what? 
The answer, one suspects, is nobody and nothing in particu­lar; Williams has become this hipster generation’s manifesta­tion of all punky, snotty tenden­cies to rage against a machine that really doesn’t care one way or the other. Ideologically, it’s as shallow as pop punk and hipster posturing ever was, but musically it’s as fantastic as ei­ther ever were. 
And who really needs ideals when you’ve got tunes? Wil­liams and his girlfriend Betha­ny Cosentino of Best Coast are at the vanguard of what some call a surf-pop revival, though this reviewer likes to think of it as Beach-Wave music. Their songs are so upbeat and drenched in the endless-summer beached-out fuzz of SoCal, you end up longing for fun in the sun. 
That’s the vibe and ethos of Wavves’ music, and Williams certainly hasn’t been stopped in that regard on the newest EP. His eternally teenage per­spective is in full force and the hooks for the most part are as good as Wavves has ever had. 
“I Wanna Meet Dave Grohl” is excellent surf-rock. A paean to grunge’s squarest survivor, the track is a hilarious juxtaposi­tion of teen angst, love and apa­thy with the desire to meet, and later to be, the Foo-man him­self. Twenty years on, grunge-nostalgia is about due, and Wil­liams is just the person to usher it in with requisite irony. 
Grunge is the name of the game on “Poor Lenore,” the only track Williams has released that might imply he’d picked up a book in his life, though the Poe reference isn’t too much deeper than a source of rhyme. 
He goes for big and heavy but can’t escape young and angsty. Luckily that dynamic works in his favor. 
Williams leaves no question about his alt-rock roots with “Bug,” a noisy affair that does justice to Dinosaur Jr., to whom the title of the song is a nod. Mimicking J. Mascis’ penchant for fuzzed out power riffs, Wil­liams lacks the depth of ironic observation that a song like “Freak Scene” had but speaks in a voice characteristically his own. Only he could hurl the phrase “You’re no fun,” like a true insult that matches the aesthetic intensity of the music. 
The EP’s standout track how­ever is “Nodding Off,” a col­laborative piece with his Best Coast girlfriend. 
Cosentino’s presence is strong, from the reverbed vo­cals to the lyrics that deal with relationships in an emotionally serious way that Williams tends to avoid and are priceless to hear him sing. The song plays like a more — though certainly not very — serious Wavves song, or even better, a Best Coast song that has the crunchy guitar on­slaught some of us have always wished the group had. 
Though they more or less lift the opening bass line from Black Tambourine’s “Throw Aggi Off the Bridge,” Williams and Cosentino are absolutely themselves and in top form on the track. They revel in “Nod­ding Off’s” punky pop-perfect chorus in such a harmonious collaboration that one can’t help but root for their hipster king and queen relationship. 
The other collaboration on the album, the tune “Destroy,” made with members of F****d Up, a Canadian hardcore punk group, somewhat misses the mark. It’s a valiant attempt for an all out breakneck punk song but Williams’ pop tendencies clash uneasily with the hard­core traditionalism of his col­laborators. While not a bad song, it’s the only song on the EP that doesn’t quite work. 
But one mediocre tune on an otherwise great EP won’t stop Williams. Nobody’s ever gonna stop him from partying or from being a perpetual teenager or from unashamedly rocking. He just needs to realize that no­body wants to. 
Contact Ross Finney at trginney@gmail.com 

“Life Sux” Wavves 
Label: Ghost Ramp Release Date: Sept. 20, 2011 Best Tracks: “I Wanna Meet Dave Grohl,” “Poor Lenore,” “Nodding Off” If You Like: Best Coast, F****d Up 

Thursday, October 27, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
“Horrible Bosses” DeBartolo 101 10 p.m. $3 
In case you missed this movie about three guys who plan to kill their bosses this summer, SUB has you covered with “Horrible Bosses” this weekend. The laughs­and-popcorn flick has an all-star cast and will be playing Friday at 8 and 10:30 p.m. and Saturday at 8 and 11 p.m. 
Glee Club Fall Concert Halloween Party at Legends “The Adventures of Ichabod and Leighton Concert Hall Legends Mr. Toad” 8 p.m. Midnight Browning Cinema $3 for students Free 3 p.m. 
$3 for students 
Join the Glee Club at the popular Looking to get in costume and annual fall concert. This year, the soak up the Halloween fun after There is no better time than on men’s choir will perform classical Saturday’s game against Navy? the eve of Halloween to catch up choral music and arrangements Look no further than Legends. with Disney’s spookiest animated of folk songs, spirituals and some Starting at midnight this Satur-classic, narrated by Bing Crosby pop music. The Glee Club always day, the campus club will be offer-and Basil Rathbone and featur­packs the Leighton Concert Hall ing a night of costumes, candy and ing the stories of “The Legends of and puts on one of the musical spooky reverie, open to students of Sleepy Hollow” and “The Wind in 

highlights of the academic year. all ages and free of charge. 
The latest addition to the cluster of restau­rants on South Bend Avenue including Between the Buns, Studebagels and JW Chen’s, Falafel Express promises an authentic Mediterranean cuisine in a casual, semi fast-food environment. Unfortunately, the red tray the food was served on wasn’t the only thing that reminded me of dining hall or cafeteria food. 
Admittedly, the ambience and interior design wasn’t awful by any means. It merely lacked distinction and looked like the inside of any on cam­pus eatery like Reckers or Waddick’s, with a condiment stand full with ketchup and the large plastic napkin hold­ers you’d see at those respec­tive on-campus places. 
Also similar to on-campus places, prices were surprisingly high for the quantity and quality of food. $1.50 gets you a Happy Meal-size order of fries. Comparable to Chipotle in prices, the so-called sandwich menu essentially has the choice of chicken, beef or vegetarian and comes in a burrito-like form using a pita wrap. Opting for the vegetarian option, I ordered the Falafel Sandwich, thinking the restaurant’s namesake would be a decent choice. Soggy falafel and rela­tively bland spices doomed the dish to medioc­rity. 
I know I’m generally harsh on demanding flavor, but even my less spice-inclined friends agreed with my conclusions after eating the Beef Shawarma Sandwich. A common theme and big miss by the restaurant was the presence of awkward pickle spears in each of the wraps. Not common in traditional Mediterranean food, there is absolutely no need for pickles and they tend to overpower the rest of the not-so-strongly 

Ankur Chawla 
Scene Writer 
the Willows.” 
flavored meal. 
Still, some bright spots did exist on the menu. The “side” of hummus was a full-on Tupperware container of it one might buy at a grocery store, yet homemade and quite delicious. Though I cannot personally speak to this, a friend of mine enjoyed his Beef Kufta Sandwich and claimed the Chicken Shish-Kabob could have been worse. Also, the fact that “Scare Tactics” was on the big screen TV only made our meal better. 
Overall, unless there is significant change in the kitchen and menu I do not see myself head­ing back to Falafel Express. There was a reason the cook himself walked out of the restaurant to return with a Papa John’s pizza while we were there eating our meal. Yes, that actually hap­pened. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu if you’d like to join him on his next quest for qual­ity foreign foods in the area. Seriously, do it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
Falafel Express 

Where: 1809 South Bend Ave, South Bend, IN 46637 Contact: (574) 387-5767 

ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Thursday, October 27, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Honor code of sports 
This Tuesday should be nominated as the most lacklus­ter day of sports in 2011. 
Maybe that was too bold. 
The NBA players and owners decided to meet one more time to hash out a collective bargain­ing agree­ment, Red Sox hurler John Lackey needs Tommy John sur­gery and the Big 12 ap­proved West Virginia to replace Mis­souri — real earth-shak­ing news. 
I can sum up the headlines in less than a paragraph: David Stern will cancel two more weeks of the NBA season, Lack­ey’s poor physique from down­ing too many canned beverages in the Red Sox locker room led to stress on his throwing elbow and the Big East will be dis­solved sooner than later. 
That was less than a run-on sentence, and it was Wednes­day’s water-fountain talk. It was also a lazy, 5-second analysis. 
But this coincidence of nothings that was last Tues­day made me think: How do I consume sports? 
1. Attend the actual event. 
As much as I’d like, I simply cannot go to every sporting event in person. But nothing compares to watching Bonds launch his 700th home run in my section of the bleachers in San Francisco, Game 4 of the NHL Western Conference Semi­finals in Detroit or the Notre Dame women’s soccer team winning the national cham­pionship on a crisp Sunday afternoon in North Carolina. It is uncensored, unbridled, real-time adrenaline, and more importantly, less the TV timeouts. 
2. Watch live on television. 
This is a close second and, in some cases, preferable to attending the actual event. In fact, I prefer to watch the NFL on the tube, on my couch and with a bag of Doritos than bat­tle the elements for three hours in early November. Not only do I reap the benefits of instant replay, I know before anyone else in the stadium, including the players and coaches, if a challenge will be successful or not. That’s fan power. (Santa, if you’re listening, all I want for Christmas is NFL RedZone). 
3. Listen live on the radio. 

Video killed the radio star. Although I find myself listen­ing only during car rides, some of the most talented an­nouncers in the world make a living broadcasting the most memorable moments in sports through the air. It’s poetry in motion. Look no further than Jon Miller and Bob Uecker, MLB Hall of Famers who chose the air waves over television. Joe Buck and Tim McCarver, you are unworthy. 
4. Follow live via the inter-net or smartphone device. 
I’m not talking about ESPN3 or similar networks which host video content that provide a very close substi­tute to watching the event on television. I mean stick figures, numbers and lame 3-D graphics that attempt to replicate No. 2. Nothing is more frustrating than try­ing to imagine Tiger Woods sinking four birdies and an eagle on the front nine to pull within one of the lead on a glorious Sunday at the Masters. Somehow a virtual scorecard just won’t do. 
5. Consume the event post-game via television, the inter-net and finally, print media. 
This is probably the most used and abused form of sports consumption world­wide. It’s instant gratification, it’s lazy and it’s an epidemic. No one can experience or record every major sporting event live. Yet everyone has an opinion on every game, team, player and coach thanks to Jim Rome, “Pardon the Interruption” and a hand­ful of sports writers. 
The further you move away from No. 1, the more detached you become from reality, and when you substitute the primary source for a cropped and poorly summarized video clip or cliché opinion, you lose your ability to make an unbi­ased opinion. 
I’m not saying we should Occupy Bristol. A healthy dose of SportsCenter and SI.com are a necessary staple of any fan’s diet — How else would we keep up with lock­outs and conference realign­ment? 
But before you plagiarize someone else’s half-baked opinion at the water foun­tain, do your own homework. There’s more than one honor code to follow. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
MLB 
Game six postponed until Thursday 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Colby Lewis and his Texas teammates casually tossed a ball in left field, trying to avoid the tarp and any anxiety about being so close to the World Series championship. 
On this day, the only win­ner was the weather. 
Game 6 was postponed Wednesday because of an ac­curate wet forecast, delay­ing the Rangers’ bid to clinch their first championship. Ahead 3-2, they can close out the St. Louis Cardinals on Thursday night. It’s likely to be clear with temperatures in the low 50s at Busch Sta­dium. 
“We’re not getting antsy, we’re not getting ahead of ourselves. We just have to wait,” Texas manager Ron Washington said. 
Lewis is set to start against Jaime Garcia. If there’s a Game 7 Friday night, it’ll be Matt Harrison for Texas against, well, no telling. St. Louis manager Tony La Russa playfully mentioned the great Bob Gibson, but ace Chris Carpenter on three days’ rest looms as a possibility. 
“It’s already been asked about Carp,” La Russa said. “I was told by Carp that he would be ready to go.” 
The postponement came after a travel day for the teams. This two-day gap is the longest at the World Se­ries since 1989, when the Bay Area earthquake left the Athletics and Giants idle for 11 days. 
“It’s just a rainout, that’s it,” Texas star Michael Young said. “I don’t know if people think we’re going to sit in our hotel rooms all night biting our nails. We’re going to get something to eat, get some rest and be ready to go.” 
After a damp season and postseason, Major League Baseball announced the de­cision about 4½ hours before the scheduled first pitch. At the time, no drops had fallen at the ballpark. 
“I’m not even sure why they canceled it,” Cardinals outfielder Lance Berkman said. “This is better than the weather for Game 1. I guess I’m going to lie back on the couch like a big, fat pig and watch a movie.” 
Maybe Berkman could’ve joined La Russa. The Cardi­nals manager planned to go see “Moneyball.” 
By late afternoon, a light mist turned to drizzle and then to steady rain. More showers were on the way throughout the night. 


This was the first Series washout since 2008 at Phila­delphia. That year, Tampa Bay and the Phillies were tied in the sixth inning when rain and snow turned the field into a quagmire, forcing a suspension. It rained the next day, too, and the game finally resumed two days later, with the Phillies winning to take the crown. 
Because of the debate about how to handle that situation MLB adopted a rule a few months later mandat­ing that any postseason game stopped in progress would be resumed at the point of sus­pension, rather than being postponed and starting over. 
This marked the latest rainout at a Series since 1986, when Game 7 between the Red Sox and Mets was pushed back by a day. 
MLB executive Joe Torre said he alerted Washington and La Russa on Tuesday that a postponement was possible. 
Rain was in “every forecast we had probably for the last three days,” Torre said at a news conference. “They were all consistent there was going to be rain during the game.” 
Looking at Commissioner Bud Selig, Torre asked: “Do you want to play in rain?” 
During the AL champion­ship series, a game between Detroit and the Rangers in Texas was called because of a predicted storm that never arrived. This time, it came. 
Busch Stadium has had weather woes in the past. In 2006, Game 4 between De­troit and the Cardinals was called. 
Rain has hovered over the majors all year with more than 50 washouts, baseball’s highest total since 1997. The bad weather actually started before opening day, as the Milwaukee Brewers and Reds worked out in snow flurries on March 31. 
Wicked weather intruded earlier in this postseason, too. 
The opener of the AL play­off series between Detroit and New York was halted after 1½ innings by show­ers that lasted all night. The game at Yankee Stadium was suspended and picked up the next day at the point when it was stopped. 
The only other suspension in postseason history was that Rays-Phillies game in 2008. 
Baseball began the play­offs a week earlier this year than last season, intending to have the World Series con­clude before November. MLB also hoped the adjustment could help avoid a chilly fin­ish for the championship. It was in the 40s and raw last week for Game 1. 
It was in the 70s and clear at Busch Stadium on Tues­day. A perfect night to play, but it was a travel day for Texas and St. Louis. 
Banged-up Texas star Josh Hamilton took the rainout in stride. 
“You don’t have to get worked up, hyped up to get into game mode and then shut it down,” he said. “We know early, so we’re able to come out here, get some swings in the cage, throw a bit. And it’s smart for the pitchers, too, they don’t have to get up, get going, have a rain delay, sit down.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
NEW 4 Bdrm near ND Fernwood 18416 Summer Wind Ln Cindy,574-210-4702 At Home Realty Group 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Happy Gilmore Quotes 
Virginia: What’s this I hear about you breaking a rake and throwing it in the woods? 
Happy Gilmore: What? I didn’t *break* it, I was just testing its durability, and then I *placed* it in the woods because it’s made of wood and I just thought he should be with his family. 
Shooter McGavin: Just stay out of my way... or you’ll pay! LISTEN to what I say! 
Happy Gilmore: Hey, why don’t I just go eat some hay, make things out of clay, lay by the bay? I just may! What’d ya say? Phil: Claire’s a perfectionist, which sometimes is a good thing, like when it comes to picking a husband. 
Terry: All you ever talk about is becoming a pro hockey player, but there’s a problem: you’re not any good. 
Happy Gilmore: I am good. You know what, you’re a lousy kindergarten teacher. I’ve seen 
those finger-paintings you bring 
home and they suck. 
Happy Gilmore: I’d love to punch that guy in the face right now. But I can’t, you know, because I’d get in trouble. I bet you get a lot of that on “Let’s Make A Deal.” Bob Barker: It’s “The Price Is Right,” Happy. Happy Gilmore: Oh, yeah. Sorry. Bob Barker: It happens. Let’s play some golf. 
Happy birthday Avery Marie. 
You’re four now. Next is five. 
Wish I could be there. At least I saw you a week ago!! 
Thursday, October 27, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 
Freshman breaststroker Emma Reanley competes in the 400- yard individual medley Oct. 14 at the Dennis Stark Relays. 
Barnes 
continued from page 16 
ers,” he said. “We are ap­proaching this meet knowing we’re going to have to very quickly acclimate when we arrive. We are aware of that 
and we’ve al­ready talked about it with the team. They’re fine, they’re con­fident.” 
Barnes said his confidence stems par­tially from the impres­sive way his 
team  re­ 
sponded  af­ 
ter  its  loss  

to the Tigers 
(2-0). He said the Irish over­came the loss and pulled to­gether as a unit. 
“We can’t live in the past and we can’t drown in our sorrows,” Barnes said. “We need to move on and that’s what we did. At Notre Dame, we shoot for consistency across the board. You need a majority of the student athletes to form a cohesive group because it’s a struggle along the way. In forming such a cohesive group, it’s a tribute to leadership and it’s a tribute to the team.” 
According to Barnes, this 
cohesion manifested itself in a good week of practice leading into the matchup 
against the 
“The team is very 
Panthers. 
motivated and excited to 
“We have 
go out to Pittsburgh and 
had a strong 
compete against another week of program in the Big East.” practice this week coming Brian Barnes off the loss last week-
Irish coach 
end,” Barnes said. “The team is very motivated and excited 
to go out to Pittsburgh and compete against another program in the Big East.” 
Notre Dame will square off against Pittsburgh on Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, October 27, 2011 

Associated Press 
San Diego’s Josh Byrnes talks to a player at spring training in Peoria, Ariz. on Feb. 21. Byrnes was promoted to general manager Wednesday. 
Padres managers defect in favor of Cubs franchise 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — General manag­er Jed Hoyer and assistant Jason McLeod are leaving the San Diego Padres to accept similar positions in the Chicago Cubs’ front office. 
Because Hoyer was still under contract, the Cubs have agreed to send the Padres a player to be named as compensation. 
Both teams said Wednesday that they will hold news confer­ences after the World Series. The Padres will announce on Monday morning that Josh Byrnes will re­place Hoyer as general manager. The Cubs will introduce Hoyer as GM and McLeod as senior vice president of scouting and player development at a date to be deter­mined. 
The deals have been in the works since Theo Epstein left his job as Boston Red Sox general manager and was hired by the Cubs as president of baseball op­erations. 
Hoyer and Byrnes both worked under Epstein with the Red Sox. Byrnes is a former GM of the Ari­zona Diamondbacks. 
“If we bring in someone as a general manager it will be be­cause there is someone I think is one of the best and one of the brightest in the game,” Epstein said Tuesday after he was intro­duced in Chicago. “Somebody who can make a real impact for the Cubs. We have a ton of work to do. It’s going to be a lot of hard work. We’re ready for it. ... I think it was important to develop a structure that allowed for the hiring of the GM, if we got the right person.” 
The moves give Byrnes the chance to once again serve as GM under Jeff Moorad. 
Byrnes was hired as GM of the Diamondbacks in November 2005, when Moorad was one of Arizona’s top executives. Byrnes and manager A.J. Hinch were fired by the Diamondbacks on July 1, 2010. 
The Padres went 90-72 in 2010, leading the NL West for much of the season before stumbling in September and missing the play­offs. After Hoyer traded three-time All-Star slugger Adrian Gonzalez to the Red Sox for three prospects and outfielder Eric Pat­terson in December, the Padres struggled badly and finished last in the division at 71-91. 
Hinch was hired as the Padres’ vice president of professional scouting in September 2010. He was promoted to vice president-assistant GM last month and will replace McLeod. 
Byrnes will work with a player payroll of between $53 million and $55 million — one of the smallest in the majors. It’ll be his turn to try to field a team suited to Petco Park, a pitcher-friendly ballyard where runs are hard to come by. 
Epstein, Hoyer and McLeod worked together with the Red Sox and helped build teams that won the World Series in 2004 and 2007. 
Hoyer was assistant GM un­der Epstein in Boston and, like his boss, is known for his ability to analyze data when evaluating players. Epstein said Tuesday that Hoyer had put together a comput­er-based information system pro­gram in San Diego that was simi­lar to the one used by the Red Sox. 
Hoyer had two years and a club option left on his deal with the Pa­dres. 
Almond 
continued from page 16 
and junior Julia Kenney. Almond and Kenney ac­counted for the Belles’ top two times at the MIAA Jam­boree. 
Adrian, Alma, Kalama­zoo, Olivet and Trine will also compete in the event. 
The MIAA Championships will  off in Alma, Mich., on Saturday at 9:30 a.m. 
Huffer 
continued from page 16 
place with four-over-par for the tournament overall. De­spite the team’s struggles at the end of the tournament, Huffer posted a one-under­par performance in her final round. According to Holt the win bolstered the senior’s confidence and should bode well for the season. 
“Becca’s win was well de­served,” Holt said. “She now knows she can win and I look for her to contend more in the future.” 
The Irish will resume tour­nament play at the start of March when they compete in the Darius Rucker Intercolle­giate in Hilton Head, S.C. The team will play in four tour­naments during the month to make up the spring portion of its schedule. 
In their final fall tourna­ment, the Irish will tee off Friday morning at the Nick­laus Course at the Country Club of Landfall in Wilming­ton, N.C. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, October 27, 2011 
Clark 
continued from page 16 
The Irish took the lead in the 10th minute as sophomore for­ward Leon Brown passed the ball to senior midfielder Bren­dan King, who scored 12 yards away from the goal. 
“The first goal was a beauty,” Clark said. “Brendan struck it home with a real hard shot. He just hammered it.” 
Notre Dame’s two-goal lead was forged in the 80th min­ute of the game as sophomore forward Harry Shipp put the Irish up another point off a pass from senior defender Greg Klazura and offensive pressure from junior forward Ryan Finley. 
“[The second goal] was a re­ally great combination from a bunch of people,” Clark said. 
The late goal was Shipp’s fifth of the season, four of which were accumulated be­tween this game and Sat­urday’s against Pittsburgh. Shipp is tied with Finley for the most Irish goals this sea­son. 
Though the Irish converted one more goal in the 90 min­utes of play, Providence out-shot the Irish in both halves, 6-5 in the first period and 11-8 in the second. 
Much of Notre Dame’s of­fensive success was a direct result of a powerful midfield, Clark said. 
“Both of our midfielders played very well, both [junior] 
Dillon  Powers  and  [senior]  
Chris  Sutton,”  Clark  said.  
“They  prompted  the  attack  

very well.” 
With just two games left in the regular season, both Big East competitors had added pressure to win before the conference tournament begins Nov. 2. 
“It was still a very competi­tive game, and [the Friars] were playing with a lot of mo­mentum, Clark said. “They came into the game with a 4-2-1 record in the Big East, so they were pretty excited. It was a tough game, but I thought we controlled the ball the majority of the game.” 
The Irish will test their win streak against West Virginia on Saturday at noon at Alumni Stadium.  
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 16 
the season. The sophomore has also converted a team-high 26 percent of her shots into goals. 
The Belles continued pres­suring the Britons’ defense in the second half, and in the 67th minute, they were awarded a penalty kick when sophomore forward Kaitlin Teichman was fouled inside the goal box. Valencia took the penalty kick for Saint Mary’s, drilling it past the goalkeeper to give the Belles a 2-0 lead. 
Less than one minute lat­er, Britons forward Lindsey Lubanski arced a free kick from over 30 yards out below the crossbar to cut the Belles’ lead in half. The goal was only the second shot on goal, and would prove to be the fi­nal one for the Britons as the Belles retained possession of the ball for most of the game. Saint Mary’s outshot Albion by a margin of 19-8, includ­ing an 11-4 tally in the sec­ond half. 
Although the Belles are out of contention for the MIAA playoffs and sitting in sixth place in the conference, a .500 record is an improve­ment from the previous three seasons in which they won a combined nine games. Fur­thermore, the Belles have an opportunity to finish the sea­son with a winning record if they can beat a three-win Trine team and upset fourth place Hope in their final two home games. 
The Belles will look to win on Senior Day this Saturday as they face Trine at home at 11 a.m. 

Thursday, October 27, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT                              AND JEFF KNUREK 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, October 27, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Triple play 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Though Providence’s only goal of the night just 38 sec­onds before the final horn pre­vented a shutout for the Irish, it was not enough to keep Notre Dame from its third conference win in a row dur­ing Wednesday’s 2-1 victory over the Friars. 
The win secured a spot for No. 14 Notre Dame (8-3-4, 4-2­1 Big East) in the upcoming Big East Tournament. 
“It is our fourth consecu­tive road game and our third consecutive win,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “They are a tough team, so I am pleased.” 
The smaller and rougher field at Providence (9-6-1, 4-3­
1) added an extra challenge to 
the game, Clark said. “I knew this was going to be a tough venue,” Clark said. “Their bumpy field adds to the difficulty of play­ing there. There is not much grass up the middle. There was some unevenness of the surface. They had to be more careful with their control. It is also three to four yards shorter, so we had to play a much tighter game.” 
see CLARK/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish take on tough course, tough opponent 

By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Through three tourna­ments this fall, the Irish have struggled to build on last season’s success, which led them to the first NCAA Championship appearance in program history. The rocky start, which included a last place finish at the Tar Heel Invitational on Oct. 8, has dropped Notre Dame from the Golf World/NGCA coaches’ poll rankings. 
In their last outing until March 2, the Irish will have a chance to conclude their fall schedule on a positive note as they return to North Carolina for the Landfall Tradition this weekend. 
The competition will again be tough for the Irish. Fourth-ranked North Caro­lina leads the competitive 18-team field, which also includes No. 5 Auburn and No. 12 Duke. 
The three-round tourna­ment will be played Fri­day through Sunday at the Nicklaus Course in Wilm­ington, N.C., with the Tar Heels serving as hosts. The difficult course was de­signed by golf legend Jack Nicklaus, who in addition to his legendary pro career has designed close to 300 golf courses. 
“This particular Nicklaus course is very demanding off the tee,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “You have to be very accurate or you will find yourself in bunkers, trees or water. The greens are very large, putting a premium on accuracy hitting into the greens.” 
Notre Dame will look to build on its success in the first two rounds of the Hoo­sier Fall Invitational on Oct. 17-18. The team held a four-stroke lead entering the final round of play. But, three play­ers shot scores of 80 or high­er on the final day, dropping the Irish to second place, still just one stroke behind East­ern Michigan. 
“The final round we were not playing well overall, but each player has to assume they are going to count and they have to play hard to the final putt,” Holt said. “They have to find a way to post a solid round even when they are having an off day.” 
Senior captain Becca Huffer shined for the Irish, winning the individual first 
see HUFFER/page 12 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Bellesbegin final season competition 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s will partic­ipate this Saturday in the MIAA Championship on the campus of Alma Col­lege in Alma, Mich. 
The MIAA Champion­ships represent the last event of the regular sea­son before NCAA competi­tion begins Nov. 12. 
This final competition will make up two-thirds of the team scores that will be used to crown the conference champion. The other one-third of the team score was deter­mined at the MIAA Jam­boree Sept. 24 where the Belles finished seventh. 
The Belles will face tough competition from six-time defending cham­pion Calvin, as well as tough Hope and Albion squads. 
The Belles will look for strong performances from their two top runners — senior Joanee Almond 
see ALMOND/page 12 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Barnes confident despite first loss 

By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After a sobering first loss of the season against No. 4 Auburn, the Irish will hit the road hoping to rebound against Pittsburgh, their first Big East opponent of the year. 
The Irish (2-1) will face the Panthers (1-1) for the first time since 2008, when they overwhelmed Pitt 223­
77. Irish coach Brian Barnes said he has not addressed the potential talent imbalance between the two squads. 
“It definitely still applies, but we try to be ready for any­one,” Barnes said of the pos­sibility of a letdown against an inferior opponent. “We haven’t once talked about the strength or weakness of ei­ther team, though.” 
The Irish will board their bus early Friday morning for the afternoon meet and re­turn immediately afterward. Though the lengthy travel may be an obstacle for some, Barnes said his team is con­fident in its ability to pre­pare quickly, both mentally and physically. 
“It may be an issue for some, but it may not for oth 
see BARNES/page 11 
SMC SOCCER 
Win over Albion ends losing streak 
Observer Staff Report 
After being outscored 12-1 in a losing streak against the top four teams in the MIAA, the Belles caught a break Wednesday, captur­ing a 2-1 victory against a winless Albion squad. 
Led by goals from sopho­more forward Jordan Dif­fenderfer and sophomore midfielder Mollie Valencia, Saint Mary’s (9-9, 5-9 MIAA) snapped its losing streak and held on to beat the Brit­ons (0-17-1, 0-13-1). 
From the outset of the game, the Belles held the advantage in number of cor­ner kicks, and they finally converted in the 40th min­ute of the game to break the scoreless tie. Senior mid­fielder Taylor Paton lofted a corner kick past the Brit­on goalkeeper where Dif­fenderfer stood waiting for the ball. Diffenderfer sent a wide-open shot into the back of the net for her team-leading sixth goal of 
see BELLES/page 14 





