the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Basilica Mass held in remembrance ofValero 
Students fill church to commemorate life of Keenan sophomore; Fr. Tom Doyle delivers homily to congregation 
By MEGAN DOYLE and SAM 
STRYKER 
News Editors 
Rain fell and the Basilica’s bells chimed as hundreds filed out of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Thursday evening after a Mass of Remembrance in honor of Sean Valero. 
During the Mass, Fr. Tom Doyle recounted the sopho­more’s funeral, held only 12 hours earlier. 
At the request of the Valero family, four of his friends from Keenan walked in the funeral procession alongside his par­ents and sister as the casket was carried down the aisle of St. Helen’s Church in Niskayuna, N.Y. 
The image of Valero’s friends and family illustrated the Doyle’s message in the homily: Our brokenness can bring us together. 
“It was both the wounds and the strength, fully exposed, that brought them together and delivered them to the Lord,” Doyle said. “That’s what it means to be a family. That’s what it means to be Notre Dame.” 
Students filled the Basilica pews during the memorial Mass for Valero less than one week after campus learned of his death. 
Fr. Joseph Carey, interim director of Campus Ministry, presided over the Mass, and Doyle, vice president of Student Affairs, delivered the homily to the standing room only congre­gation. 
The men of Keenan Hall filled the first six rows, dressed in blazers, and Keenan rector Fr. Dan Nolan was among the cele­brants on the altar. 
Luke’s gospel about the heal­ing of a paralytic highlighted the need to be humble in diffi­cult times, Doyle said. In the gospel, four of the paralytic’s 
see MASS/page 4 




Keenan to host memorial basketball tournament 
Observer Staff Report 
Keenan Hall will host a two­on-two basketball tournament for members of the dorm Saturday in honor of sophomore Sean Valero, who died last week. 
Sophomores Ryan Dunbar, Gabe de Vela, Stephen Schwaner and Preston Scott founded the Keenan Shootout as a charity tournament this year. 
“After losing Sean, who was close to all of Keenan but espe­cially my roommates and myself, we wanted to do some­thing in memory of him,” Dunbar said. “This year the tournament will be dedicated to Sean, and the money raised will go toward a memorial for him.” 

Originally, the Shootout was planned to benefit a charity, selected by all of the fundrais­er’s participants. After Valero’s death, Dunbar and the other organizers added a memorial to their friend as an option for the donations. Residents of Keenan voted to decide where the money would be donated, Dunbar said. They chose between four charities and a memorial for Valero. 
“After holding registration, almost all voted for the money to go toward a memorial for Sean,” Dunbar said. “To hear the guys say over and over that they wanted the tournament to donate to the memorial spoke volumes about the types of guys here at Notre Dame and the sense of community really pres­ent in the dorm life at Keenan. As close friends of Sean, it means a lot to us.” 
Dunbar said while this is the inaugural Shootout, the organiz­ers hope it will expand in the years to come. 
“We are hoping to make [the Shootout] an annual tradition in Keenan Hall,” he said. “This is the first year, and we wanted to limit the entries to Keenan men only as we use this year to test the waters and see where we can make improvements in the upcoming years.” 
Commemorating Sean’s life through the tournament this year is important to Valero’s friends in Keenan, Dunbar said. 
“He truly was an amazing guy and the nicest person I’ve ever met,” Dunbar said. “I know those of us putting on the tour­nament are very pleased to be able to incorporate the tourna­ment this year to help remem­ber a great person.” 
Games will be held all day Saturday behind Keenan Hall. 




Craig, Harris debate nature of morality 
belief in God’s existence is the foundation for all moral values. Harris, who is known as one of the “four horsemen of atheism,” believes that science, not reli­gion, should provide the basis for morality. 
Craig said theism provides a sound foundation for objective moral values. 
“If God exists, objective moral values exist,” he said. “God’s moral nature is expressed to us in the form of commandments, which constitute our moral obli­
see DEBATE/page 6 

University conferswith IOSHA 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
The University will continue talks with the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Administration (IOSHA) before addressing $77,500 in fines related to the state investigation of junior Declan 
Sullivan’s  October  death,  
IOSHA  representative  
Stephanie  McFarland  said  
Thursday.  

Sullivan died Oct. 27 after the scissor-lift from which he was filming football practice fell. He was a student videog­rapher for the football team. 
“At this point, Notre Dame is taking steps to ensure safety for its employees,” McFarland said. “The Notice of Consent is a state-required formality to continue their conversations with IOSHA.” 
IOSHA published the results of its investigation March 15 and required the University to respond before April 7. Notre Dame filed a Notice of Contest to continue its conversations with IOSHA after the deadline 
see IOSHA/page 5 



By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Christian apologist William Lane Craig and anti-theist Sam Harris only agree on one thing 
— the existence of moral values and duties. Beyond that, the two have nothing in common, except that they debated their views in front of a sold-out audience Thursday evening in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Craig argues that religion and 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professors discuss unrest in Afghanistan page 3  SUB concert preview page 8  Viewpoint page 10  Hockey falls to UMD page 20 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, April 8, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kristen Durbin Andrew Owens Caitlin Housley Matthew Marisa Iati Robinson Graphics Matthew Unger Brandon Keelean Scene Photo Courtney Cox Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Megan Kozak 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL TEAM NAME? 








Saad Khan  Justin Siler  Simone Bigi  Bobby Curley  Chim Richalds  Victoria Braga  
freshman  senior  senior  junior  senior  senior  
Carroll  St. Edward’s  Pasquerilla West  Duncan  off campus  Lewis  
“Dream Within  “Aquamarine  “Bi (but it’s  “Corduroy  “Muhammad  “We Might Be  
a Dream Within  Ballers.”  since been  Pillows — We’re  Ali’s Jenga  Losers, But At  
a Dream Team.”  banned).”  Making  Team.”  Least We’re Not  
Headlines.”  Dead or LaFun  
Arcade Staff.”  


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer The Notre Dame and University of Minnesota Duluth hockey teams warm up before the Frozen Four game yesterday. The Bulldogs reached the Frozen Four title game with a 4-3 win over the Irish. 


OFFBEAT 

Bulls wreak havoc before rodeo 
POCATELLO, Idaho — Rodeo week in Pocatello kicked off with an unsched­uled running of the bulls as three of the bucking beasts broke free and headed through town with cowboys and police in pursuit. 
The bulls were being unloaded Wednesday after­noon for the Xtreme Bulls event when they made a run for it. The animals were corralled about a mile away from Idaho State’s Holt Arena. 
Pocatello Frontier Rodeo Association president Robert Askey says the biggest challenge was keep­ing people safe and keeping the huge animals calm and off the main streets. 
The Xtreme Bulls event went on as scheduled Wednesday night. The Western Frontier Pro Rodeo continues with the Wrangler Million Dollar Silver Tour Rodeo perform­ances Thursday through Saturday. 
Missing snake given moniker 
NEW YORK — The name of New York City’s most elu­sive snake is Mia (MEE’-uh) for “missing in action.” 
The moniker won out over four other finalists Thursday in a contest to name the slippery Bronx Zoo cobra. More than 33,000 nominations were submitted to the Bronx Zoo and New York Daily News for the contest. 
The venomous Egyptian cobra went missing two weeks ago and quickly became the stuff of legend. Someone even started pre­tending to be the cobra on Twitter. The animal was found a week ago in a dark corner of the reptile house. 
Other finalists in the naming contest: 
• Cleopatra. 
• 
Agnes, which is Greek for pure or holy. 

• 
Amaunet, an ancient Egyptian goddess. It means “the female hidden one.” 

• 
Subira (soo-BEE’-ruh), Egyptian for “patient.” 


Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Marc Gunther will speak today from 10:40 a.m. to 
12:10 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business as the last installment of the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series. Gunther is a Contributing Editor for FORTUNE Magazine, a senior writer at Greenbiz.com and a blogger at www.marcgunther.com. The event is free. 
Crispin Sartwell will pres­ent a lecture and a slideshow called “Political Aesthetics” today at 4:00 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. Sartwell is a cultural theorist, art histori­an and art philosopher. The event is free. 

There will be a Family Nature Hike today from 5:30 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at Saint Mary’s College. The event is free and registration is avail­able through RecRegister. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre and the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival will present “The Two Gentleman of Verona” today at 7;30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $10 for students. The play tells the story of two gentleman that are both trying to win the heart of the fairest lady in the land. 

O.A.R. and Chiddy Bang will perform today from 7:30 
p.m. to 10:00 p.m. in the Stepan Center . A limited number of tickets are avail­able for $15. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


monday tuesday 


Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






Professors discuss unrest, protests in Afghanistan 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
After an American pastor burned a Quran last month and provoked protests throughout Afghanistan, Professor Michael Desch, chair of the political sci­ence department, said the con­flict will significantly influence the relationship between the Middle East and the United States. 
“The protests are disturbing not only because lives were lost, but more worrisome over the long term is the fact that the protests are taking place in areas of the country with no significant Taliban presence,” he said. “It indicates that year to Jones against burning the Quran in hopes of steering him away from the act. 
“Apparently, Jones didn’t lis­ten to [Petraeus], and now he has blood on his hands,” Desch said. 
While nonviolent protests continue throughout Afghanistan, angry demonstra­tors stormed a United Nations compound in Mazar-e-Sharif April 1. The attack killed 12, including seven U.N. employ­ees, and left dozens wounded. 
A Tuesday protest at Kabul University attracted over 1,000 peaceful supporters. 
Despite current tensions, David Campbell, associate pro­fessor of political science, said the United States’ reaction 

things are real­ly fragile, per­haps more than  “Apparently, Jones didn’t listen to  to Jones’ actions has been posi­tive.  
we realized.” Florida Pastor Terry Jones p u b l i c a l l y  [Petraeus], and now he has blood on his hands.”  “I think this whole incident has actually shown the reli­ 
threatened  to  gious tolerance  
conduct a “trial  Michael Desch  within  the  
on the Quran” last year. He then burned the  chair political science  United States because this pastor’s tiny  
sacred Muslim  church has basi­ 
text with mem­ cally abandoned  

bers of his church on March 20. him,” Campbell said. “At the 
United States President very least, I hope the U.S. can Barack Obama, Army Gen. make the point that [Jones] is a David Petraeus and Afghan fringe person and that President Hamid Karzai were Americans are actually quite among public officials who pub-comfortable with other reli­licly condemned Jones’ actions. gions, including Islam.” 
Desch said Gen. Petraeus Both Desch and Campbell made an impassioned plea last emphasized the political and military significance of Gen. Petraeus’s public denounce­ment of Jones’s actions. 

“The fact that [Petraeus] has spoken out is significant because he wouldn’t get involved in something unless American lives were at stake,” Campbell said. 
Campbell said religious plu­ralism is widely accepted in the United States, but dis­course on faith should be respectful and inoffensive to another religion’s sacred objects. 
Campbell said the fact that no prominent American religious leaders have publicly endorsed Jones’ actions shows Americans generally consider him to be an extremist who speaks for no more than a small number of people. 
“In the United States, people are very comfortable with pros­elytizing and interfaith dis­course, but we’ve worked out a way for those sorts of exchanges to occur within the bounds of reason,” he said. “In general, people are not going to do things that are deliberately offensive to what others find sacred.” 
While debate about the con­struction of an Islamic cultural center near Ground Zero in New York remained balanced and peaceful, Campbell said Jones’ disrespectful actions should not be considered in the same vein of discourse. 
“It’s one thing to criticize Islam or the cultural center and self-promote one’s reli­gion within the bounds of rea­son, but things move into the category of offensive when people deliberately desecrate something holy,” he said. “For example, putting the ‘Eucharist on trial’ would offend a lot of Americans.” 


Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 8, 2011 

Irish coach rewards dorms for enthusiasm 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Nine of the most spirited residence halls on campus were recently rewarded for their enthusiasm at this fall’s pep rallies with personal talks from coach Brian Kelly in their respective dorms. 
Each of the seven home game pep rallies featured a dorm spirit competition in which judges chose the most spirited hall based on atten­dance and level of enthu­you very easily could have backed out and not been sup­portive,” he said. “But you’ve been very supportive through­out the entire year, and 
I’m here to say ‘thank you’ for that.” 
Kelly said the competition allowed him to connect per­sonally with the dorms and discover the distinctive char­acter and spirit of each hall. 
“It’s been a great learning experience, learning about the different dorms, their his­tory, the people that are here,” 

s i a s m . Th i s y e a r, B a d i n, S i e g f r i e d , P a s q u e r i l l a E a st , Fa r l e y, C a v a n a u g h , Alumni, Walsh,  “It’s been a great learning experience, learning about the different dorms, their history, the people that  he said. “I wanted to really become i m m e rs e d i n what our cam­pus is about.” Kelly said he  
S t.  E d w a r d ’s  are here.”  was  especially  
a n d  C a r r oll  drawn to Notre  
to ok h o me spirit awards. Mike Oliv er,  Brian Kelly Irish coach  D a m e f o r i t s u niq u e r e si-dential life.  


co-chair of Hall Presid ents Council, said the plans for the competition began last April. 
Oliver and co-chair Alexa Doyle worked with former student body president Catherine Soler and football program administrators to coordinate the contest. 
“We tried to think of how to get students to come to the pep rallies,” Oliver said. 
“Since Brian Kelly wanted to get more connected to the students, we figured one way to increase stu­dent atten ­“I wanted to 
be on a campus that had a residential commu­nity,” he said. “I wanted to go somewhere [where] there was truly community spirit.” 
Cavanaugh looked to demonstrate that Notre Dame spirit Wednesday night, and the entire dorm was thrilled to meet Kelly, Desmond said. 
“I really think the girls enjoyed hearing his story and answering our questions,” she said. “I loved seeing him want to be involved with the stu­
dance was to 

“I really think the girls
create a spirit 

enjoyed hearing his
competition between the story and answering dorms.” our questions ... I 
Former 

loved seeing him want
Cavanaugh president to be involved with the Caitlin 
students.” 
Desmond said her hall 

Caitlin Desmond
demonstrated enormous Cavanaugh 
enthusiasm at the pep rallies this fall, including running to Irish Green to obtain front-row seats. 
Their efforts proved suc­cessful as Cavanaugh was rewarded this past Wednesday with a special appearance by Kelly. 
Kelly thanked the girls for exhibiting outstanding spirit and remaining engaged with the team throughout the sea­son. 
“We had a tough year, and dents.” 
Pasquerilla East won the spirit competi­tion at the first pep rally of the season. 
“Since it was the first pep rally, we were all super excit­ed. I think there were almost 150 of us,” hall presi­dent Emily Hefferon said. 
“We got there an hour early and we were blasting music. We were all so pumped.” 
Hefferon said Kelly’s speech was engaging and entertain­ing. 
“He was so positive,” she said. “He talked about the team and made everyone really excited for next sea­son.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

Mass 
continued from page 1 
friends lowered him through a roof so Jesus could heal him, both physically and spiritually. Doyle said Notre Dame stu­dents can be like the friends who help the paralytic in the gospel reading. 
“We’re the Fighting Irish. What are you fighting for? It’s a question that begs descrip­tion of who we are,” he said. “Notre Dame is a community inspired by Christ, and we are the kind of people who are fighting to lift up the other, to care for the vulnerable and to take that in prayer to Jesus.” 
Doyle spoke words directly to Sean in the voice of the Notre Dame community. 
“Your idealism and inherent compassion toward the poor, the needy, the destitute, your kindness toward animals, those are unique gifts that the world needs and that we need,” he said. 
Notre Dame students are good at serving others, Doyle said, but they must also be open to help in their times of need. 
“Are we humble enough, are we humble enough to let oth­ers help, to carry us when we are in need, when we are par­alyzed?” Doyle said. “The need of the paralytic is so obvious, but do we expose any vulnera­bility? … If a wound isn’t exposed, how can it be healed?” 
Notre Dame represents a community “bound by faith” where members must serve and be open to being served, Doyle said, which is where the University derives its solidari­ty. 
“This community … is the kind where a group of guys or women recognize a person in need, subordinate our own agenda and care for someone else,” he said. 
Later in the Mass, the con­gregation echoed this message of unity through times of trou­ble as students reached across pews and aisles to join hands and pray the “Our Father.” The men of Keenan then embraced one another during the sign of peace. 
“It is not the perfection of your faith that draws you clos­est to God,” Doyle said. “It is our imperfection that leads to healing, to resurrection and to God.” 
As Doyle spoke, students qui­etly took in his words. When the time came to sing the Alma Mater, students wrapped their arms around each other, shoulder to shoulder, and sang with full voice. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said the number of students present to remember Valero spoke to the unity of the Notre Dame family. 
“We will never forget Sean,” he said. 
Despite the somber environ­ment, Doyle said the Mass was a celebration of Sean’s life. 
“Sean is still very much alive in Jesus Christ,” Doyle said. “Sean’s brokenness drew Christ so close to his presence that he remains with him.” 
Before the congregation qui­etly poured out into the rain, Tami Schmitz, a member of Campus Ministry staff, read a statement from the Valero family written for the mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
“There is something you can do for us. When you leave here tonight and go home, tell somebody there that you love them and that you appreciate them. And then live that out every day.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu and Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
NDobservesmeat-freeFridays 
By REGINA WOOD 
News Writer 
Meat and potatoes may be culinary staples, but Notre Dame’s dining halls forgo the former on Fridays during Lent and formulate creative, meat -free dishes for stu ­dents. 
Donald Miller, executive chef of Notre Dame food services, said he enjoys the challenges of concocting unique meatless menu items during Lent. 
“Lent is another excuse for me as a chef, a culinarian, which is my passion, to intro­duce healthy food that is incredibly good but is viewed as not tasting good in our current culture,” Miller said. 
Miller said he is currently experimenting with mixed grains like farro and ama­ranth and is developing a grain-based salad. The din­ing halls have also expanded their sustainable fish offer­ings to include pollack, 
tilapia and Alaskan salmon, he said. 
South Dining Hall general manager Marc Poklinkowski said some items intro ­duced during Lent become permanent menu staples, including the popular moz ­zarella cheese-filled Bosco Sticks. 
“[Bosco sticks] stayed 
IOSHA 
continued from page 1 
after the deadline passed Thursday, McFarland said. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said discus­sions between IOSHA and Notre Dame have been “posi­tive and productive.” 
“Though the University and IOSHA are near resolution, more time is needed to final­ize the agreement,” Brown said. “Unfortunately, the timelines imposed by statute required filing the Notice of Contest in order to continue these discussions. As for the specifics of the discussions, we will keep them confiden­tial until there is a final reso­lution.” 
McFarland said Notre Dame is already taking the neces­

ers, salmon, six cheese Despite the significant sachettini and make -your-menu changes, meatless 
own 
pizzas, said. He said the addition of new Lenten menu items often incorpo­rates more cheese than usual to com­pensate for the lack of meat in entrees. 

“On a typical day, we usual­ly use around 200 grilled cheese [sand­wiches],” Poklinkowski said. “That goes up to 900 

on 
Lenten Fridays.” 


Miller said Lent also gives 

Prentkowski Fridays do 
“[Serving no meat on Lenten Fridays] is a historical practice that has been in place for as long as anyone can remember. It is just one of the many things unique and special about Notre Dame as a Catholic university.” 
David Prentkowski director food services adminstration 
not significantly affect weekly 
operati 
ons because man­agers and employees are informed of the menu changes ahead 

of 
time and adjust their plans accord ­ingly, Prentkowski said. 


“We have a very low turnover for a food service operation, so almost all of the staff has done this at least once before,” 
the dining halls an opportu­nity to improve their use of seasonal and locally sourced food. Serving meatless dishes allows the dining halls to spend money 
on more 

“Lent is another expensive sub­stitutions for 
excuse for me as a 
meat, like 

chef, a culinarian, 
mahi mahi which is my passion, sliders, David to introduce healthy Prentkowski, director of 
food that is incredibly 
food services good but is viewed as administra ­
not tasting good in our tion, said. North Dining 
current culture.” 
Hall manager 

Reggie Kalili Donald Miller said one of the executive chef biggest chal ­
lenges is 

food services 
ensuring that all ingredients used in a dish Prentkowski said. 
He said the dining halls coordinate with the athletic department to create Lenten menus for the athletic train­ing tables that take athletic performance and nutrition into account. These tables feature meatless options dur­ing Lent but may include meat with special dispensa­tion, Prentkowski said. 
Although the practice of abstaining from meat in all dining halls may seem unusual, Prentkowski said meat -free Fridays are a deeply engrained Notre Dame tradition. 
“[Serving no meat on Lenten Fridays] is a histori­cal practice that has been in place for as long as anyone can remember, ” said Prentkowski. “It is just one of the many things unique and special about Notre Dame as a Catholic university.” 
Contact Regina Wood at rwood6@nd.edu 
SMC modifies spring room selection process 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
As the end of the semester quickly approaches, mem­bers of the Saint Mary’s community finalized their housing plans for the fall semester this week. 
Each student is assigned a lottery number in March to pick rooms in early April, beginning with rising seniors and concluding with rising sophomores. 
Freshman Kat Sullivan chose a room in Regina Hall for her sophomore year Wednesday. 
“For a lot of people, room selection defines what your year will be like,” Sullivan said. “Where you live, if you’re near friends, if you have a good roommate — those are all issues impor­tant to people.” 
She said the small size of the Saint Mary’s cam ­fill up rooms in the resi ­dence halls and set aside specific rooms for first-year students, Tchakerian said. 
While the majority of first-year students will live in McCandless next year, Opus Hall will continue to be open only to seniors. The inde­pendent hall offers highly coveted apartment-style doubles and quads to 72 seniors each year, and resi­dents are chosen through a lottery. 
Junior Catherine Swanson applied to live in Opus, but her lottery number was not chosen. 
“I was definitely frustrated because I realized how few living opportunities are available for seniors,” she said. “ Even though Annunciata Hall is another option for only seniors, we are at the age where we want to live with less rules and be more independent, like we will be when we 
pus makes it “For a lot of people, graduate.” easy to see B o t h
room selection defines
friends who Swanson and live in differ-what your year will be Sullivan said 
ent dorms, so like. Where you live, if the room living in dif-selection
you’re near friends, if
ferent loca-process 
tions does not you have a good should be present a roommate — those are compl eted major issue. electronically 
all issues important to
But the to improve Department people” e fficiency. of Residence Sullivan also Life and said the room 
Kat Sullivan 
Community selection
freshman
St andards (DRLCS) has altered the room selection procedure within the past year, Janielle Tchakerian, assistant vice president for student affairs and director of DRLCS, said. 
One of these changes is that upperclassmen can no longer reside in McCandless Hall, Tchakerian said. Instead of choosing any one of the four campus residence halls, students wishing to live in McCandless next year will be placed on a waitlist and will not be informed of their housing placement until the summer. 
“McCandless is the build­ing that is most conducive to first-year student needs,” Tchakerian said. “We want­ed to reserve McCandless for our incoming first years.” 
Tchakerian said studies suggest that first years gen­erally experience the same types of issues when they first arrive to college, so having all first-year students in the same building allows them to help each other adjust to college life and helps the College better address their needs. 
Last year, DRLCS also removed the quota system that was previously used to process 
should be explained more thoroughly to underclassmen prior to selecting rooms. 
Tchakerian said DRLCS is aware that some students may be unhappy with their living situation for next year. She suggested alternatives to expressing complaints in order to improve their respective situations, includ­ing limiting priorities in terms of room amenities like closet space and overall area. 
Tchakerian also said that students who are not satis­fied with their hall choice may be placed on a waitlist for their first-choice dorm. She suggested students make the most of their residence hall experience regardless of their individual situations. 
“I also encourage them [students] to give the new experience the opportunity to work and to go in with an open mind,” Tchakerian said. “A different building, room type or roommate doesn’t necessarily mean a bad experience, but it will be a negative experience if that is your mindset.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
on the regular menu rotation since they were so popular,” he said. 
This year’s most popular items include mahi mahi slid-are completely meatless. This issue becomes crucial in for­mulating dishes like soup and rice that normally con­tain chicken or beef base. 
sary steps to improve safety conditions for its employees. Scissor lifts were removed and replaced with a remote video system at the LaBar Practice Complex before the football team began spring practice March 23. 
“These discussions can con­tribute to their conversations 
on 
a safer workplace, ” 

McFarland said. After receiving the results 

of 
IOSHA’s investigation, McFarland said the University faced three options. Notre Dame could pay the fines and correct the violations initially, meet with the Indiana Board of Safety Review or request an infor­mal conference with IOSHA to discuss the findings of the report. 


The University chose to dis­cuss the report informally with IOSHA and began its conferences on April 1, she said. 
“It is highly customary to meet informally with IOSHA to better understand the report,” McFarland said. 
The citations resulted in fines totaling $77,500. The six violations include one “knowing” violation, meaning IOSHA found the University knowingly exposed its employees to unsafe condi­tions. IOSHA also issued five “serious” violations, includ­ing failure to properly train student employees in how to operate a scissor lift. 
The University will respond to the fines within 45 busi­ness days of filing the Notice of Contest or attend a pre­hearing to discuss the charges with a state attorney. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, April 8, 2011 
Schlink talks legal principles 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
German law professor Bernhard Schlink discussed the principle of proportionality at the Eck School of Law Thursday as part of a forum titled, “Proportionality in Constitutional Law: Why Everywhere but Here?” 
Schlink is a former judge and author of “The Reader,” a novel recently adapted to film in 2008. 
Proportionality, a principle of legal reasoning that seeks to bal­ance individual rights with gov­ernment entitlements, presents the legal profession with both a set of tools and a number of chal­lenges, Schlink said. 
The forum, sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, focused on the degree to which the legal systems around the globe utilize the principle of proportionality in the interpreta­tion of laws. 
Schlink said the principle requires analyzing the justifica­tion of government intrusion on civil rights based on three criteria. 
“In law, the principle of propor­tionality assumes prominence in those cases where specific laws commanding or prohibiting spe­cific means, or to 
of a lame man seeing a child picking apples from his tree. The lame man’s only means of stop­ping the intrusion is shooting the boy. 
“The means of shooting the child down is helpful and neces­sary to reach the ends of protect­ing his property,” he said. “But we can easily agree that it is not appropriate or in balance.” 
The legal theory of proportion­ality originated when German courts limited police discretion in protecting the public, Schlink said. 
“The law was understood to give the police wide discretion in fighting dangers of all sorts ... Once the ideas of individual rights began to prevail, the courts start­ed to institute controls over the police,” he said. “The police were entitled to use only the means that were necessary and appropriate.” 
Despite its German origins, Schlink said no especially unique characteristic of German law con­tributed to the emergence of the principle, which is now prevalent in courts throughout Europe and 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
gations. These obligations reflect His essential character.” 
Craig also said that if God did not exist, humans would not believe they have moral obliga­tions to do anything. 
Conversely, Harris said reli­gion actually provides a source of moral blindness, and reli­gious explanations for morality are not permanent because reli­gion itself cannot last forever. 
“Morality and human values can be understood through sci­ence,” he said. “All we can do is appeal to scientific values.” 
Craig said an atheistic approach to morality inherently involves a lack of a defined authority that provides humans with moral obligations. 
“It [atheism] is bereft of foun­dations to establish moral life,” he said. “Moral duties are very obviously grounded in divine commands.” 
Harris argued that belief in God is the epitome of narcissism and that Christianity constitutes a cult of human sacrifice. 
“This kind of faith is obscene,” he said. “The true horror of religion is that it allows perfectly decent and sane people to believe by the millions something that only lunatics would.” 
Harris said science does not lead humans to lie to them­selves about the nature of reali­ty and morality in the way that religion does. 
“What my argument entails is that we can speak objectively about a certain class of subjec­tive facts that go by the name of morality,” he said. “The real challenge is a world where the maximum number of people truly flourish.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
much of the world. 
“There’s nothing inherently German about the roots of the principle of proportionality, nor is the introduction of the principle to the other constitutional contexts a transfer of German principle,” he said. 
Rather, Schlink said, it is a tool used in dealing with a challenge 
faced by every 
legal system. 
“We kind of cheat. If we have it in our head that this is an instance where the government should be permitted to act, we often simply declare that what’s being regulated isn’t actually the freedom of speech,” he said. “It’s obscenity, it’s incitement, it’s defamation.” 
Notre Dame Law Professor Emeritus Donald Kommers praised the principle’s flexibility. 


“The principle “If competing principles are 
“There’s nothing 
be more precise, is a response to a involved [in the German system], actions that inherently German universal legal they must not only be reconciled, serve as means, problem — once but optimized,” he said. “This 
about the roots of the 
are lacking,” he it’s understood kind of balancing is not in the 
principle of
said. “If you pur-that the authori-American Supreme Court’s toolk­
sue an end, use proportionality, nor is ty’s reach is it.” a means that is the introduction of the extensive, but Kommers said the principle helpful, neces-also limited, allows the legal system to honor 
principle to the other
sary and appro-without specify-several competing, but valid, val­priate.” constitutional contexts ing the limits, the ues. Schlink illus-a transfer of German principle of pro-“This is not a zero-sum game, trated the princi-p o r t i o n a l i t y as it often is in the American situ-
principle.” 
ple’s applicability serves as an ation,” he said. through a “clas-instrument to sic German law Bernhard Schlink reconcile” the Contact John Cameron at 
school example” visiting professor of law lack of clearly jcamero2@nd.edu 
defined limita­tions of govern­ment legal authority, he said. Schlink said the principle is flawed. 
“The first problem is that of insufficient or ambiguous infor­mation. It is sometimes impossible to determine whether the means works and whether it is neces­sary,” he said. “The balance of rights, interests and values entailed in the analysis of appro­priateness is unavoidably subjec­tive.” 
Richard Garnett, associate dean of the Law School and professor of law, said the principle is preva­lent in American law, but it is less explicit than it is in European law. 
“There’s a tendency not to use the word ‘proportion’ in American constitutional law,” Garnett said. “But it’s everywhere, just the same.” 
While many American laws may seem absolute, such as the First Amendment right to free speech, Garnett said proportional­ity affects the flexibility with which the legal system defines “speech.” 



Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Judge spares ex-House aide from prison time 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. — A judge on Thursday spared from prison time a former congressional aide involved in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal and questioned why lawmakers were able to avoid prosecution while their staffers are paying the price for influence -peddling schemes. 
U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle rejected prose­cutors’ recommendation that the top aide to former Oklahoma Republican Rep. Ernest Istook spend more than two years behind bars. Istook’s former chief of staff John Albaugh admitted help­ing steer funding to Abramoff’s clients after his firm helped raise campaign donations for Istook. 
Instead, Huvelle sentenced Albaugh to five years’ proba­tion and four months in a halfway house in his adopted hometown of Colorado Springs, Colo., where he works for a nonprofit called Morning Star Development. She said a fine and communi­ty service weren’t necessary after Albaugh, a father of three who once made six fig­ures on Capitol Hill, told Huvelle he made $24,000 last year helping the group that provides aide in Afghanistan with fundraising and commu­nications. 
Albaugh told Huvelle it pains him deeply to think about the “corrupt” methods he used to try to help Istook’s career ambitions. He said Istook told him he wanted to run for the Senate and they discussed how they would need to raise a lot of money for such a bid. Albaugh said lobbyists were an obvious source of funding and that the Abramoff team was particu­larly aggressive, raising tens of thousands of dollars and using the firm’s luxury boxes to host fundraisers for Istook. 
Albaugh said of the many funding requests that would come in from lobbyists, he would winnow down the list to those who had raised money for his boss, chair of the sub­committee on transportation funding. He said he presented the list to the congressman for insertion in the appropria­tions bill. He said the list did-n’t have to include the amounts the lobbyists raised. “He knows who his contribu­tors are,” Albaugh said. 
Istook was under investiga­tion in the scandal — Albaugh even secretly recorded their conversations at the request of federal agents. But prose­cutor Nathaniel Edmonds declined to answer Huvelle’s question about why charges were never filed against Istook. The judge said she was concerned that “higher ups” had walked away. 
Istook left Congress in 2006 for a gubernatorial campaign that proved unsuccessful. Now a distinguished fellow at The Heritage Foundation think tank, he said Thursday in an email to The Associated Press that he had told Albaugh in writing that he would not work from the list his aide had provided and wouldn’t consider requests based on lobbyists or contributors. 
“Instead, as I told him, I would work from lists show­ing only requests received from members of Congress. Multiple times I made it clear that I would not base any leg­islative decisions on campaign contributions — and I never did,” Istook said in the state­ment. “I shared this informa­tion with the FBI when they contacted me, which was almost three years ago.” He later changed the statement to say he shared the informa­tion “after” rather than “when” the FBI contacted him. 
Istook added: “John Albaugh was entrusted with making recommendations and with compiling legislation from my decisions. I regret that he misplaced his priorities in exercising that trust. He mis­takenly may have thought that somehow he was helping me politically, but he was not.” 
Former Rep. Bob Ney, R-Ohio, was the only lawmaker charged in the scandal although others, including for­mer House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas; former Reps. John Doolittle, R-Calif., and J.D. Hayworth, R-Ariz.; and former Sen. Conrad Burns, R-Mont., were investi­gated. 
“There are three or four congressmen out there that will never see the light of day for actions, and we’re blaming the staffers,” Huvelle said. “The people that really bene­fited from this scheme, with one exception, aren’t the peo­ple in front of me.” 
Edmonds argued that Albaugh helped Abramoff’s clients get $14 million in tax­payer dollars in violation of the principles of a functioning democracy where funding projects should be based on merit. He told Huvelle to think of his sentencing as she would in a drug case. “Just because you don’t get the kingpin doesn’t mean you don’t sen­tence the second in com ­mand,” Edmonds said. 
Albaugh pleaded guilty to a conspiracy to defraud the House in 2008 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. But Edmonds asked Huvelle to rule that he breached the plea agreement by recanting his testimony against a lobbyist who worked for Abramoff and sentence him to 27 months. 
Albaugh had been the lead­ing witness in a 2009 trial against Abramoff associate Kevin Ring. Albaugh testified that he did favors for Abramoff ’s firm in part because Ring took him out to restaurants and gave him tickets to performances including George Strait, Tim McGraw, Disney on Ice and The Wiggles. 
The jury could not agree on whether Ring was guilty and Huvelle declared a mistrial. When prosecutors tried Ring again in 2010, Albaugh said he no longer felt he was moti­vated by the meals and tickets but because Abramoff’s firm was raising so much money for Istook’s campaign fund. 
Prosecutors decided not to call Albaugh to testify again after his change of heart, but instead used his emails with Ring as evidence they con­spired together. Huvelle point­ed out that didn’t hurt their case — Ring was convicted the second time. 
Gingrichanticipatesshutdown 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Newt Gingrich was the face of the last federal government shutdown, the fiery House speaker who led his Republican revolution headlong into a confrontation with a Democratic president. 
Now, 15 years later and with another federal shutdown loom­ing, Gingrich is trying to use the budget crisis in Washington to his advantage and, perhaps, rewrite history as he embarks on a presi­dential campaign. 
“The lesson for today’s House Republicans is simple: Work to keep the government open, unless it requires breaking your word to the American people and giving up your principles,” Gingrich wrote in a recent news­paper column that detailed his rosy version of the 1990s budget fights. He urged the GOP majority in the House to force President Barack Obama either to accept a bill with deep spending cuts or veto it, even if that leads to a shutdown. 
It was a message that Gingrich delivered personally last week when he popped up on Capitol Hill to meet with GOP House freshmen, casting himself as a sage veteran of the budget wars to a new generation of rabble­rousers. A number of them are tea party adherents pushing for the deep spending cuts that have tied budget negotiators in knots. Without an agreement, the gov­ernment could shut down on Friday. 
“It’s good for us to hear from someone who’s been there,” said Rep. Austin Scott, a Georgian who is president of the new GOP class. “There’s a lot of respect for Newt in that room.” 
Among other things, a shut­down would delay pay to military troops, slow the processing of tax returns, cancel Washington’s National Cherry Blossom Festival Parade and close national parks across the country. 
The talk of a shutdown comes with both political peril and opportunity for Gingrich. It stirs memories of a showdown that ultimately was seen as having dis­astrous political consequences for him and his House Republicans. But it also could endear Gingrich to tea party ideologues who favor smaller government, less spend­ing and, maybe most of all, stand­ing firm against compromise. 
On a broader level, it highlights an ongoing challenge for Gingrich: To run as the battle-tested candidate of experience, he must embrace his legacy, warts and all. 
Gingrich rose to power follow­ing the 1994 elections, when Republicans took control of the House as the country delivered a sharp rebuke to a first-term pres­ident, Bill Clinton. Over the next two years, the new House speak­er led the party in a confrontation over spending with Clinton that resulted in two government shut­downs. 
The work stoppages inconve­nienced millions of people. Hundreds of thousands of federal workers were furloughed. National parks closed. Health and financial services were delayed for military veterans. And thou­sands of applications by foreign­ers for U.S. visas went unprocessed every day the shut­downs lasted. The first, in November 1995, lasted six days, and was followed by a 21-day clo­sure that ran from late December into the new year. 
Kansan threatens abortion doctor 
Associated Press 
WICHITA, Kan. — The Justice Department filed a civil com­plaint Thursday against a Kansas woman accused of send­ing a threatening letter to a doc­tor who plans to do abortions in Wichita. 
Documents filed in U.S. District Court allege Angel Dillard, 44, of Valley Center, vio­lated the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act when she mailed a letter to Dr. Mila Means after learning the physician was training to offer abortion servic­es at her Wichita practice. 
The lawsuit contends the 44­year-old Valley Center Woman told Means in her letter that thousands of people from across the United States are already looking into her background. 
“They will know your habits and routines. They know where you shop, who your friends are, what you drive, where you live,” the letter said. “You will be checking under your car every­day — because maybe today is the day someone places an explosive under it.” 
Abortions have not been per­formed in Wichita since Dr. George Tiller, one of the nation’s few late-term abortion providers, was fatally shot in May 2009 by anti-abortion activist Scott Roeder as the physician served as an usher at his Wichita church. 
Her purported letter to Means references the slain abortion provider: “If Tiller could speak from hell, he would tell you what a soulless existence you are purposefully considering, all in the name of greed.” 
The letter was signed by Dillard and sent in an envelope with a pre-printed return address sticker with the defen­dant’s name and address, court documents show. 
The lawsuit, filed by the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, also seeks a court order keeping Dillard from con­tacting the doctor or coming within 250 of the doctor, her home, car or business. It also seeks damages of $5,000 to Means and a civil penalty of $15,000. 
“The murder of Dr. George Tiller brought home to many of us the terrible potential for vio­lence and the need to use every legal means at our disposal to prevent it,” U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said in a news release. 
Protecting the right of repro­ductive health services providers to do their jobs free from threats is of the “utmost importance,” said Thomas Perez, assistant attorney general for the Civil Rights Division. 
Dillard, a Christian songwriter, did not immediately return a message left Thursday at her home. 
But Dillard told The Associated Press in a July 2009 interview that she reached out to Roeder while he was in awaiting trial for Tiller’s killing and developed a friendship with him. 
“Quite honestly, as soon as I heard about it, I realized that he was able to accomplish what those of us in the pro-life move­ment had not been able to accomplish — we put millions of man hours in, protested, mil­lions of dollars, attempts at leg­islation — and we were butting our heads up against the wall. We were not getting anywhere.” 
She told AP she believed Tiller would never be convicted of any crimes. 
“With one move, (Roeder) was able ... to accomplish what we had not been able to do,” Dillard said. “So he followed his convic­tions and I admire that.” 
She said at the time that she had been questioned several times by the FBI since striking up a friendship with Roeder fol­lowing Tiller’s death, but she and her husband have no plans to “do anything of violence to anyone.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, April 8, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
My secret love affair 

Two weeks ago, I fell in love. I’m talk­ing head over heels, hit one out of the park in love. 
He’s a really great guy. Just last week, he came over and visited me twice. Once, he even came to the library for me. 
He always comes over when I call him, and he’s prompt. It only takes him about ten minutes to get here. He even calls to tell me when he’s on his way. 


What’s best about 

Caitlin Housley 
him? He makes me sandwiches. 

Saint Mary’s 
Actually, you all 

Editor
might know him. He’s pretty popular on campus. Women love him, and I’ve heard many men say they do too (straight up bromance). His name is James, or some call him Jimmy 
— Jimmy John. That’s right … two weeks ago I discov­ered my love for Jimmy John’s. 
It wasn’t the first time we had met, by any means. But I’m not much for that love at first sight thing. 
It was Biology that brought us together. I had a huge test that demanded every second of my dinnertime to study. I pan­icked because I knew I needed some brain fuel, but then I remembered my sandwich-making friends. 
John, Rob — whatever the delivery boy’s generic guy’s name was — actually came into the building to deliver my sandwich. It didn’t occur to him that I would be one of about a hundred girls in the library. This sure didn’t help the awk­wardness. 
I tried to be as discreet as I could. The library was extra quiet that day, and there I was, ordering a Jimmy John’s in the one place devoted to study, quiet and academia. My goal was to be stealthy, but this delivery kid blew my cover. He asked every female he saw if she was the Caitlin that ordered a sandwich. 
Somehow, he had slipped past my radar and already caused a ruckus. I quickly handed him my $6 without look­ing at him directly in the face, and I hid the sandwich in my purse. I had to pass the reference librarians — I knew they would all judge, because I possessed the one thing in the world that could cover their floors with lettuce shavings, mayo and bean sprouts. 
Then I wondered, “Was I even allowed to have food in the library?” I didn’t care. I was one sticker away from unwrapping my little piece of heaven — a number 12 beach club (no avocado). 
I proceeded to unwrap the sandwich … bad idea. Could Jimmy John’s make packaging any noisier? The answer is no. Five things stood between me and my love: two staples, one bag, one sticker and the noisiest wrapping ever. 
I tenderly separated each staple from the bag by hand, gently folded back the top and realized that trying to be quiet was only making matters worse. 
So, I did it. I tore right in and didn’t care who judged. It was worth it. 
My love affair has a happy ending. I was not asked to leave, and they didn’t take my book checking abilities away from me. My possible run-in with the library law only made my sandwich that much tastier. It was a smuggled good. 
So here’s to Jimmy John’s and the ulti­mate form of product placement in yet another form of news media. Until we meet again, Jimmy, stay fresh. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chous101@saintmarys.edu 
We, as a community, need to talk amid tough times and tough topics 
Over the last two weeks, these Viewpoint pages have been filled with letters arguing the merits of no-meat Lenten Fridays as well as the pros and cons of wearing leggings. 
These two arguments have sparked light-hearted debate across campus. 
Last night, before hundreds of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students, two renowned theologians debated, “Is good from God?” This coming Wednesday, again before hun­dreds of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students, four heavy­
weights in the national education realm will discuss what they consider a failing education­al system. 
Last night’s debate sparked legitimate, seri­ous discussions among students. Next week’s will undoubtedly have a similar effect. 
Both lighthearted and serious rhetoric have third, “Remembering Sean Valero,” printed April 7, asked students to take some time to think about the loss of one of our peers. 
Three letters in two weeks. While these letters were well-intentioned and very much appreciated, none of them direct­ly addressed the issues at hand. 
The silence is not simply in these pages. The silence fills the dining halls, amid discussions of no-meat Lenten Fridays. The silence fills the hallways of DeBartolo, as leg-


gings pass jeans and jeans pass leggings. The silence fills our campus. 
For many of us, our stance on sexual assault is a combination of feeling helpless and detached. Until it strikes closer to home, it is simply easier to push it to the back of our minds and pretend sexual assault does not happen. 

a college campus, we find ourselves in the unique position crossing the line between adolescence and adulthood. This position allows us, as a campus, as a community, to discuss both casual and serious topics. 
Yet, in the past two weeks, as a campus, as a community, we have passed on the opportunity to discuss two personal topics, topics that have stunned our campus, our community. 
In the March 30 issue of The Observer, a Saint Mary’s stu­dent wrote a Letter to the Editor discussing her personal his­tory of multiple sexual assaults. One week ago today, we all learned of the self-inflicted death of sophomore Sean Valero. 
The Observer’s Viewpoint section is by no means the per­fect litmus test, but nonetheless, in the last two weeks a total of three Letters to the Editor have been submitted acknowl­edging the two tragedies. One, a letter from the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention printed April 1, urged sexual assault victims to know they are not alone. The second, “A community that listens,” printed April 6, urged anyone suf­fering from mental instability to seek help and support. The 
For many of us, we are still inexperienced at facing the travesty of the death of a peer. Quite frankly, we are not sure how to handle it. 
Perhaps talking, together, is the best way in both instances. 
This is not a call to end sexual assault or prevent suicide 
— though both would certainly be ideal. Rather, this is a call to acknowledge them, break the silence and discuss them. 
Are we not mature enough to discuss how and why sexual assault happens on our own campus? The discussion about whether females wearing leggings symbolizes their own self-respect simply skirts the greater issue at hand. 
Let’s take the next step. 
Are we not mature enough to discuss how and why one of our peers committed suicide, even though a discussion debating if good comes from God could very easily, and pos­sibly should, tie in to such a grave topic? 
Let’s take the next step. We are, as a campus and as a community, together, mature enough. So let’s discuss. Let’s talk. Let’s take the next step. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is always some madness inlove. But there is also always somereason in madness.” 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Carry out a random act of kindness, with no expectation of reward, safe in the knowledge that one day someone might do the same for you.” 
Diana Spencer Princess of Wales 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, April 8, 2011 page 9 
Geraldine Ferraro: a champion for women 
The Notre Dame women’s basketball team — runners-up in this year’s colle­giate varsity level national championship competition — owe their opportunity and global audience to women like Geraldine Ferraro, who recent­ly passed away after a 12-year battle against multiple myeloma. Born into an Italian immigrant family, she grew up with her mother in the tough-acting New York neighbor­hoods of the Bronx Gary Caruso and Queens during a time when women Capitol struggled for politi-Comments cal, economic and social equality. Her successful law-and­order campaign slogan characterized her succinctly: “Finally, a Tough Democrat!” 

This writer knew of her through her son, John, who played one summer on the coed softball team I coached on Capitol Hill. Aptly named “Yellow Journalists,” our team consisted of press secretaries. One of our players, a press secretary turned lobbyist with close ties to Ferraro, introduced John to our team. Ironically, it was this same lobbyist — turned alcoholic by the nature of her industry — whose serious drunk-driving collision unveiled to me Ferraro’s person­al compassion. 
Ferraro began her public career as an assistant district attorney in Queens heading a new Special Victims Bureau. When she first ran for congress in 1978, universities were completing a three-year transition to fully comply with Title IX regulations that ensured equality for both women and men in all scholastic activi­ties at schools receiving federal funding. At that time, Ferraro stood strong for women’s equality and that carried over to her congressional career. 
Ferraro described herself as a “small ‘c’ conservative” later turned moderate. Through the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, Ferraro helped lead the successful battle to pass the Economic Equity Act, a law ending discrimination against women’s salaries and pensions. She authored sections that reformed pri­vate pensions and increased retirement savings options for the elderly. As a Catholic, her pro-choice stance conflicted with her Church and many constituents. However, other social and foreign policy positions stayed in sync with her district. She supported Reagan policies that deployed the Pershing II missile and the Trident submarine, as well as broke with her party to support an anti-busing amendment to the Constitution. 
It is difficult today to recall the enormi­ty of Ferraro’s accomplishments a gener­ation ago. Just last presidential election, our contenders included a woman and an African-American. In fact, Ferraro her­self never denied that her sex was the essential factor in her selection as a vice presidential candidate. Yet, ironically, only once during the 1984 election sea­son did Ronald Reagan trail Walter Mondale in the polls — the day following and a handful of days beyond Ferraro’s selection. 
Having witnessed her personal com­passion for my lobbyist friend, I know of her passion to help others. Having worked in Congress while she served, I know of her dedication to equality and her commitment to inspire future genera­tions. It is best to pay homage to her memory by simply recalling eloquent words she spoke when accepting the Democratic vice presidential nomination. 
“America is the land where dreams can come true for all of us. Tonight, the daughter of working Americans tells all Americans that the future is within our reach — if we’re willing to reach for it. The daughter of a woman whose highest goal was a future for her children talks about a future for us all. 
“Our faith that we can shape a better future is what the American dream is all about. The promise of our country is that the rules are fair. If you work hard and play by the rules, you can earn your share of America’s blessings…Tonight, we reclaim our dream. 
“It isn’t right that this year Ronald Reagan will hand the American people a bill for interest on the national debt larg­er than the entire cost of the federal gov­ernment under John F. Kennedy. Our parents left us a growing economy. The rules say: We must not leave our kids a mountain of debt. 
“It isn’t right that a woman should get paid 59 cents on the dollar for the same work as a man. If you play by the rules, you deserve a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s work. 
“It isn’t right that — if trends continue 
— by the year 2000 nearly all of the poor people in America will be women and children. The rules of a decent society say, when you distribute sacrifice in times of austerity, you don’t put women and children first. 
“By choosing a woman to run for our nation’s second highest office, you sent a powerful signal to all Americans. There are no doors we cannot unlock. We will place no limits on achievement. 
“If we can do this, we can do anything. 
“My mother did not break faith with me…and I will not break faith with you. To all the children of America, I say: The generation before ours kept faith with us, and like them, we will pass on to you a stronger, more just America.” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Why you should go to the opera next week 
When asked to name a composer of classical music, even the most benighted among us could name Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. But aside from a collection of sound bites in television commercials or a sonata you were forced to play during your childhood years in piano lessons, you probably have not had much direct contact with the great compos­er. Perhaps you have just never listened to much classical music, or worse, you find it boring. Many people do claim to enjoy Mozart, but sadly his music remains trapped as background noise to study sessions. Even music majors I know seem somewhat disinter­ested in Mozart, citing his effervescence as tiring fireworks and preferring the wider harmonic variety of later 19th and 20th century composers to Mozart’s simpler tonal palette. These criticisms I do not understand, for when I hear Mozart, the walls of my dorm seem to recede and I need do nothing more than close my eyes and be carried away by the defiant playfulness and absolute sublimity of his music. 
I write this letter because next week Notre Dame’s music department will present Mozart’s Le nozze di Figaro (The Marriage of Figaro) in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. If you have never been to an opera before, I urge you to go. Figaro is a brilliant comedy which will certainly make you laugh. But for those moments when you are not laughing, you will be touched by Mozart’s poignant illumination of the human condition. 
When I wake up on the worst of days, those days when I wish I could stay in bed, lest I face a multitude of disappointments and failures, I pause and thank God that he gave the world a Mozart and that I may be so lucky as to have heard his music. Of Mozart’s music, a well-known scientist once said that it “was so pure that it seemed to have been ever-present in the universe, waiting to be discovered by the master.” I can do little to improve the words of Albert Einstein. 
Edward Jacobson 
sophomore O’Neill Hall Apr. 6 
Clothing has meaning 
Dear Anne (“‘Bold, risqué, leggings as pants,’” (Apr. 6), 
You’re right. That girl probably didn’t think how best to disrespect herself when she made her clothing selection on the day she had that fateful encounter with Kevin Brainard. However, I’m sure she thought something. 
Consider the following scenarios. First, you’re in the dining hall and see someone dressed in a t-shirt and sweatpants. You might guess from that attire and their slightly tousled hair that this person just woke up. Second, you’re heading to the stadium on a home football day and see another student wearing one of those infamous “Muck Fichigan” shirts. You’d probably assume that this particular student doesn’t care too much for our opponent at that day’s game. Third, you’re on your way to class and see someone dressed in a suit and tie. Since it’s Thursday morning, they must be on their way to an interview. In all of these scenarios, you made a judgment about someone based on their clothing. How dare you? 
Actually, in many cases you’d be perfectly justified in making assumptions about someone based on their clothing. After all, many different groups of people have signa­ture outfits or uniforms designed to easily identify their members. Ours is a visual cul­ture, and we get most of our information from visual shorthand. From bathroom signs to the crucifix, visual cues give us all kinds of information. The perhaps unfortunate truth is that in our culture, revealing clothing is a sign of “sexiness” or promiscuity. 
Before you accuse me of facilitating sexual assault, let me clarify my point further. Everyone has the right to wear whatever clothing they see fit. You also have the respon­sibility to be cognizant of the messages that clothing may send, and others have the right to interpret those messages in whatever way makes sense to them. That said, this right does not extend to physical action. Unwanted advances in any form, be it verbal, physical or otherwise, are always unacceptable. Being at fault is not the same thing as understanding how dressing a certain way may attract unwanted attention from unscrupulous individuals. 
Matt Kaufmann 
senior 
Keenan Hall 
Apr. 7 
Hell week 

It’s hell week. Yes, that dreaded week when EVERYTHING EVER is due. You don’t sleep for days and you’re convinced you’ve actually become the owner of a desk in the library since you’re there so often. As a senior, this is just one of the many hell weeks I’ve been through in my four years and I’ll be the first to admit I hate them. There’s no better way to become a negative Nancy than sitting through multiple exams, writing countless pages of lab reports or spending days on citations for papers. 
However, seeing as this is likely my last hell week and I’m obligated as a senior to be nostalgic and aware of the end of my undergraduate career, I’ve come to two big conclusions about hell weeks. Firstly, it is at this time that you really lean on your support system. Whether it’s your mother calling your phone to make sure you’re awake at 6:30 a.m. or a roommate bringing you your favorite hot beverage in the library, your support system goes into hyperdrive. The second of which is that they have little to no lasting impact — your grades don’t drop, you don’t usually get sick and all you need is some extra sleep. 
While it’s difficult to see beyond that next test, I hope you can take a bit of time to see how hell week fits in the big picture. Appreciate your family, friends and class­mates, as they lift you up when you need it most. Try not to worry: it’s bad for your immune system and doesn’t help anything. Take a few minutes to appreciate that you could have hell week anywhere in the world, but we’re lucky enough to have it at Notre Dame, in majors we love. Finally, own that hell week. It’s yours for the taking. 
Maureen Williams 
senior 
off-campus 
Apr. 6 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Friday, April 8, 2011 



By ADRIANA PRATT 
Scene Writer 

Make sure you’re nice to your fresh­men dorm mates, because they might just become your lifelong career part­ners. At least, that’s what happened to Jerry DePizzo, saxophonist and backup vocalist for O.A.R. (Of a Revolution), the revolutionary rock band performing at tonight’s S.U.B concert. 
DePizzo met his fellow band mates, Marc Roberge (vocals, guitar), Chris Culos (drums, percussion), Richard On, (guitar, backing vocals) and Benj Gershman (bass guitar) at Ohio State in 1997. His four co-musicians formed 
O.A.R. a few years before college and were what DePizzo called “that band that everybody knew in high school that actu­ally got out of the garage and did bigger and better things.” 
DePizzo hung out with the band in the dorm and at parties, and eventually became an official O.A.R. member in 2000. O.A.R.’s popularity grew on the col­lege scene, as the band made the rounds and gained a cult following amongst their peers. 
“We played anything and everything. We played fraternity parties, sports and club parties, we threw our own parties … really anything. We were young guys, 19 years old. All we wanted to do was go out and play music,” DePizzo said in an interview Tuesday with The Observer. 
Their rise to success was steady and hit a particularly high note when the band sold out a Madison Square Garden show in 2006. For DePizzo, though, one of the greatest successes of his career was the moment he could quit his wait staff job and become a full-time musician. 
“I was playing in the band, I was in col­lege, I held down a nine to five job wait­ing tables and playing music as well. And it got to the point where one had to go. You know, fortunately we were able to go out and tour and earn some money so I didn’t have to go out and wait tables any­more,” DePizzo said. “So in January 2000, I remember walking into the restaurant where I worked and I told them, ‘You know what? I’m going out and playing gigs with my buddies and I don’t really need to come back anymore.’ And that was the last square job that I had.” 
Other successes greeted O.A.R. as their audience transformed from a group of college fans to a national following. “Hey Girl,” “Love and Memories” and “This Town” ranked on national charts and their song “Shattered,” released in 2008 off the album “All Sides,” landed on VH1’s Top 40 Videos for the year. 
DePizzo might be enjoying the life of a successful musician now, but there’s one regret he has about the path that took him to fame. 
“My biggest fear was that I wouldn’t graduate [from college]. And that came true. But it was just finding the right opportunity at the right time, and that’s kind of what I went to school for. Granted, I really wish I would have grad­uated and completely finished. You know, but you go for an education and it’s not always in the classroom. And that’s the one I got.” 
Being a professional musician is not exactly what he envisioned as a little kid, but he knew being in a band was his call­ing and hasn’t stopped working for that goal since. 
“It’s always a little bit different than what you think it’s going to be when you’re sitting in your room as a 14-year­old looking at magazines of rock stars and musicians and stuff. But I’ll tell you what. I am fortunate. There’s a hell of a lot of ways to make a living and our deal is fun.” 
O.A.R. continues to evolve as a band and hopes to release their newest album before their summer tour begins. It’s been three years since their last release and DePizzo said the band is ready to get their new music out there. 
“This new record certainly reflects a couple years of hard work and a lot of effort. The reason why it’s taken so long is because we want it to be really good … There’s going to be something for every­body on this record and we’re really proud of it.” 
The band is excited to play at Notre Dame tonight and even said they will probably tweet about the event. In fact, DePizzo is a secret fan of Notre Dame athletics, even though he’s a Buckeye. 
“I didn’t go to Notre Dame but I grew up in a Roman Catholic family in Youngstown, Ohio, so I have a Notre Dame football and a jersey and a Notre Dame pennant over my crib. 
“Even now my 85-year-old grandmoth­er will call me on Saturday sometimes to talk about Notre Dame football. ‘What do you think about Brian Kelly? I think he’s great for the program.’ You know, stuff like that … It’s nice to go to Notre Dame. I can call my old man and tell him I final­ly made it, even though I’m not going there … We’re looking forward to this weekend.” 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

On campus 
What:O.A.R and Chiddy Bang ConcertWhere: Stepan CenterWhen: Friday, April 8, 8 p.m., doors openat 7:30 p.m.How much: $15 Learn more: sub.nd.edu 


By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 
One of hip-hop’s fast-rising stars, Chiddy Bang, comes to South Bend tonight to join 
O.A.R. in S.U.B.’s annual spring concert. Though some may be more inclined to see O.A.R., considering they have been around longer, but Chiddy Bang can’t be dismissed as simply an opening act. 
The band formed in 2008, when its two members, Chidera “Chiddy” Anamege and Noah “Xaphoon Jones” Beresin met at Drexel University. The pair was soon fea­tured on the music blog Pretty Much Amazing. They released their debut mixtape, “The Swelly Express,” in early 2009 to underground success and acclaim. 
One song in particular, “Opposite of Adults,” became a widespread internet hit, and its inventive sample of MGMT’s “Kids” can be heard at parties on college campuses around the country. 
The song is a good example of the unique style that Chiddy Bang brings to the hip-hop world. As the producer/DJ of the group, Beresin blends indie-rock elements with elec­tronica and combines them with his artful skill at sampling, allowing Anamege, the MC of the group, to do what he calls some “good ole fashioned spitting” over the creative tracks. 

As Chiddy Bang’s mixtape continued to gain acclaim, the band performed at college campuses across the country, earning them a large fan base. This fame caught the atten­tion of some serious players in the music business, namely Kanye West, who featured the band on his blog, and EMI Records, who signed the group to a record deal in 2010. 
The band’s first release, “The Preview,” is not meant as a full-length album, but rather, as the title implies, a preview to their debut. That said, the record not only shows great promise, but also is in and of itself fantastic. Outside the well-known “Opposite of Adults,” tracks such as “Truth” and “All Things Go” show Beresin’s fantastic talent at sampling and mixing music and Anamege’s incredible abilities in the depth and delivery of his lyrics. 
Their debut album, “Breakfast,” is due out in early summer of this year. In the mean­time, the band is about to set off on a major 
U.S. tour. Friday night, Notre Dame students may be able to witness one of Chiddy Bang’s final shows before fully becoming main­stream. Add this in with the band’s reputa­tion for exciting college campus shows, and the student body is in for a once in a lifetime performance. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at 
knoonan2@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, April 8, 2011 page 11 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

This Sunday Club Fever hosts Bret Michaels, lead singer of the glam metal band Poison and star of the VH1 reality show Rock of Love with Bret Michaels. 
Michaels’ musical career began in his teens as a guitarist. Along with a bass player and another gui­tarist, he became a lead member of the band Paris. The band played in Pennsylvania bars in the early 1980s before moving to Los Angeles and changing the band’s name to Poison. 
In addition to being the lead singer, Michaels was the songwriter for Poison for 22 years. The band has sold 25 million records and 15 Top 40 singles. Some of the band’s most famous hits include “Talk Dirty to Me,” “Something to Believe In,” “Nothing But a Good Time” and the famous heartbreak hit,“Every Rose Has Its Thorn.” 
Poison became one of the biggest glam bands in the world in the 1980s and 1990s. Their first album, “Look What the Cat Dragged In,” was followed up with “Open Up and Say … Ahh!” and “Flesh and Blood,” both multi -platinum albums. Guitarist C.C. Deville left the band after a fist-fight with Michaels dur­ing the 1991 MTV Video Music Awards. The band reunited with Deville in 1999 for a greatest hits reunion tour. 
Poison’s music made a presence in 2000s cinema in the movies “Mr. and Mrs. Smith,” “Grandma’s Boy” and “Deuce Bigelow — European Gigolo.” In 2006 they released the “20 Years of Rock” CD and “Poison’D” in 2007, an album of cover songs that have inspired the band members. 
Before beginning a solo musical career in the 2000s, Michaels creat­ed a film production company with Charlie Sheen. Michaels wrote, directed and starred in films such as “A Letter from Death Row,” which he co-produced as an execu­tive with Sheen. 
Michaels also made appearances on televisions show like “Yes Dear,” “Martial Law” and “The Chris Issak Show.” He has also appeared as co-host of “Access Hollywood,” was a judge on “Nashville Star” and won “Celebrity Apprentice 3.” Vh1’s “Rock of Love with Bret Michaels” became Vh1’s highest rated series 
on Vh1 and has extended into a third installment, “Rock of Love Bus.” 
His solo albums include “Songs of Life,” “Freedom of Sound” and his current release “Rock My World.” Michaels has said “I would play music whether I made it or not.” 
The personal life of Michaels is perhaps the most controversial and well -known aspect of his fame. Michaels admitted he had Type 1 Diabetes after collapsing on stage in 1987, suffered tension with gui­tarist Deville over their mutual drug use and survived a near fatal car crash in 1994. Last year he was rushed to the hospital for an emer­gency appendectomy and was later diagnosed with patent foramen ovale. 
A 16-year-old Tracey Lewis was the inspiration for “Every Rose Has Its Thorns.” It was written after their breakup. 
Despite choosing a new winner in each season of “Rock of Love,” he has mentioned the idea of a fourth season. 
“Now they want me to come back for a fourth ‘Rock of Love,’ Michaels said. “I feel that it should be some­thing that changes up, but I still want that fun element. What you see is what you get with me.” 
Michael’s “Get Your Rock on Tour” has taken him through Iowa and has sold out in Michigan. The rest of Michael’s schedule is filled As he half-heartedly ventures 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 
off on his first quest, Thadeous 
Scene Writer 
treks across perilous outlands to 
Natalie Portman and James free the princess. Joined by Franco team up with classic fun-Isabel (Portman), an elusive war­nyman and writer Danny rior with a dangerous agenda of McBride (“Tropic Thunder,” her own, the two brothers must “Pineapple Express”) for this epic vanquish horrific creatures and tale of adventure set in the mid-traitorous knights on their way to dle ages. Portman, a 2011 Oscar saving Belladonna. winner, and Franco, a nominee, If Thadeous can lay off the pipe are sure to be just as incredible and be a hero with his brother, in this legendary movie. the trio could prevent the 
Thadeous (McBride) and his destruction of their land. If he older brother Fabious (Franco) stays a slacker, not only does he are two princes on a daring mis-die a coward, he will be the sole sion to save their land before reason of a new Dark Age. their kingdom is destroyed. The heavy-hitting Hollywood Spending his life watching cast will undoubtedly provide an Fabious embark on valiant jour-entertaining performance and a neys, Thadeous settled for easy sure hit. For more information maidens, ale, and wizard’s weed. and to watch the trailer, check However, when Fabious’ fiancée out http://www.yourhighness ­Belladonna (Zooey Deschanel, movie.net Look for my review of “(500) Days of Summer”) gets “Your Highness” sometime next kidnapped by the evil wizard week. Leezar (Justin Theroux, “American Psycho”), Thadeous Contact Ankur Chawla at must man-up and be a hero. achawla@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS page 12 
PGA 

Youth dominates in 1st round of Masters 
They had a two-shot lead shots on three straight holes 
Associated Press 

over a pair of South Koreans, around the turn. His only 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The flair former PGA champion Y.E. mistake came on the 18th, of Rory McIlroy. The sheer Yang and K.J. Choi. when he hit his approach power of Alvaro Quiros. Mickelson and Woods, with into the gallery left of the These are but two of the six green jackets between green and chipped too hard, fresh faces in golf who them in the last decade, missing a 7-foot par putt for 
offered more evidence blended in more than they a 70. Thursday at the Masters that stood out. “I scrambled well today, a new generation is on the Woods played in the morn-but I let four or five birdie way. ing in only a moderate opportunities slide, ” 
And that ’s only going to breeze, ideal conditions for Mickelson said. “I’m going to make it tougher on Phil scoring. But he lost his way have to capitalize on those Mickelson and Tiger Woods. starting the back nine with opportunities to go low. I did-
The 21-year-old McIlroy, consecutive bogeys, made n’t shoot myself out of it, but who opened with a 63 at St. only one birdie on the par 5s I didn’t make up ground on Andrews last summer in the and had to settle for a 71. the field like I wanted to.” British Open, again delivered “I would rather be where The top Americans on the exquisite shots on one of Rory’s at,” Woods said. “But, leaderboard were Matt golf’s biggest stages for a 7-hey, it’s a long way to go. We Kuchar and Ricky Barnes at under 65. It was such a clean have a long grind ahead of 68. Another shot back was a round that he didn’t make a us. The temperature is sup-group that included former bogey and was left wonder-posed to warm up and I’m U.S. Open champion Geoff ing how much lower he could sure they will start making Ogilvy, Brandt Snedeker and have gone if not for missing the pins a little more difficult Sergio Garcia, who is slowly five birdie chances inside 10 as the week goes on. I’m showing signs of a revival. feet. right there in the ballgame. The good news for McIlroy 
“It wasn’t maybe as exclu-I’m only six back, and as I was not only a great start to come off the course and not with weather that only sive or spectacular as the 63 said, we’ve got a lot of golf the Masters, but a great fore-shoot 80 after shooting 63,” enhanced the garden beauty at St. Andrews, ” he said. ahead of us.” cast. McIlroy said. “But looking of Augusta, and not with hole “But it was very solid from Mickelson was far more Last summer in Scotland, back on it, it was a very valu-locations along the front nine start to finish.” erratic off the tee, hitting tee the freckle-faced kid from able lesson in my develop-that allowed for such good 
Then came Quiros, a 28-shots into the Georgia pines Northern Ireland followed his ment as a golfer. It’s possible scoring. year-old Spaniard whom and spraying one so far into record-tying 63 with an 80 that I can go out and shoot Retief Goosen started out many consider the longest the azaleas left of the 13th when he got caught up in the another 65, but I know that by holing an 8-iron from 161 hitter in the game. Blasting fairway that he looked like blustery conditions of St. it’s also very likely that I’m yards on the opening hole, away on a course where he he was on an Easter egg hunt Andrews. He eventually ral-not going to do that. the first player in 24 years to had never shot better than as he searched for his ball. lied for a tie for third at the “So if I do find myself in a make eagle on the first hole 75, he spun an approach He hit only four fairways, Open, and hopes he gained bit of trouble, I’m going to of the Masters. He reached 5 back to 3 feet on the 18th last in the field of 99 players. some experience. have to stick in there, grind under at the turn, only to get hole to catch McIlroy atop As always, his superb chip-“Obviously at the time, I it out.” tripped on the backnine for a the leaderboard. ping kept him from dropping was very disappointed to This was not a day to grind, 70. 

MLB 

After deliberations, jurors to decide Bonds’ fate 
closing arguments from both through the testimony of 25 wit-investigator who was seated at 15 to 21 months. For convictions 
Associated Press 

sides that were filled with viru-nesses and hundreds of exhibits the prosecution table. for similar offenses in the Bay 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — The lence and self-righteousness. that include syringes, vials and “They have the power to end Area Laboratory Co-Operative eight women and four men sat in “There’s a real irony to this dizzying computer graphs of careers and to ruin lives,” she (BALCO) case, Illston sentenced the jury box for more than 4½ case,” Assistant U.S. Attorney drug tests. said to the jury, her voice qua-two people to home confinement. hours, listening to angry argu-Matthew Parrella concluded. A seven-time MVP regarded as vering. “And nobody gets to test Bonds doesn’t dispute that he ments from federal prosecutors “These substances that the among the greatest hitters ever, that evidence unless they have took steroids but testified to the and Barry Bonds’ attorneys at defendant took to make himself Bonds is charged with three the wherewithal and internal grand jury that Anderson told the end of a 12-day trial that strong — he wasn’t strong. He counts of making false state-strength to come to a jury trial — him they were flaxseed oil and exposed the dark world of base-was weak. He was too weak to ments and one count of obstruc-to you.” arthritic balm. Parrella, in his ball’s Steroids Era. tell the truth despite all the ana-tion of justice. His lawyers Bonds is charged with lying 51-minute rebuttal that ended 
Now, Bonds’ fate is up to them. bolic steroids.” ridiculed the prosecution as when he denied knowingly the trial, compared that to a 
After listening to tawdry accu-And with that, at 3:51 p.m. being celebrity obsessed and receiving steroids and human teenager who arrives home sations of drug use, theft and PDT, U.S. District Judge Susan willing to cut deals with anyone growth hormone from personal glassy eyed on a Saturday night body parts that grew (Bonds’ Illston turned to the jury box and who would implicate perhaps the trainer Greg Anderson and for and tells his parents “I went to a head) and shrank (his testicles), said: “At this point ladies and top player of his generation. saying he allowed only doctors to bar and they told me it was just the 12-member panel gets to gentlemen, we’re turning it over “It’s part of an effort to demo-inject him. An obstruction count Coke.” decide whether the home run to you.” nize Barry Bonds, and it’s very lists four additional statements Parrella said Bonds’ plan at king will become a convicted The jury’s first order of busi-wrong,” lead defense lawyer the government alleges were the grand jury was to “sell the felon. ness when it starts deliberations Allen Ruby said. made to evade or mislead the little lie and hide the big lie” that 
Bonds’ trial on charges he lied Friday — the day the World Cristina Arguedas, another of grand jury. his exploits — including the to a grand jury more than seven Series flag is raised at nearby Bonds’ attorneys, repeatedly Each count carries a possible record for home runs in a season years ago when he denied know-AT&T Park, home of Bonds’ San took off her glasses and pointed sentence of 10 years in prison, (73 in 2001) and, later, in a ingly using performance-enhanc-Francisco Giants — is to elect a them contemptuously at Jeff but federal guidelines indicate a career (762) — were built on ing drugs ended Thursday with foreman. Then it must sort Novitzky, the tall, bald federal recommended total sentence of steroids. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  The Office Quotes  Stanley:  Ryan:  
NOTICES  PERSONAL  Michael Scott:  What is wrong with you? Why  I don't think— I don't think you  
Don't go it alone.  would you have to phrase is like  understand how jeopardy works.  
Ladies and gentleman, I have some  that?  
If you or someone you care about  THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA-­ bad news. Meredith was hit by a  Michael Scott:  
has been sexually assaulted, we  Notre Dame has many resources  car.  
can help.  in place to assist you.  Oh, I'm sorry. What is, 'we're fine'?  
Oscar:  Ryan:  ———————————————  
enchanting and unforgettable!  It is pretty simple actually.  
If you or someone you love needs  Where?  Did this happen on company prop- The next nine days, only one thing  
confidential support or assistance,  erty?  should consume your thoughts.  
For more information, visit Notre  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Michael Scott:  Only one thing should fill your  
Dames website:  Michael Scott:  dreams.  
It happened this morning in the  Only one thing.  
For more information, visit ND's  Read this wonderful stage play on  parking lot. I took her to the hospi- It was on company property, with  
website at:  Kindle @ Amazon.com, under  tal. And the doctors tried to save  company property. So, double jeop- It is pretty simple actually.  
Books!  her, life, they did the best they  ardy, we're fine.  Gentlemen, Dawgs, Lady Dawgs,  
http://csap.nd.edu  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  could. And she is going to be ok.  Wake it, Shake it.  
———————————————  ——————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Wildcats sweep singles to win 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Despite taking an early 3-0 lead against Northwestern Thursday, the Wildcats mount­ed a dramatic performance and stunned the No. 20 Irish with a 4-3 victory. 
The Irish (11-9) struggled later in the match as the Wildcats gained momentum and won the last four singles points, securing the victory by just one point. It is the first time this season that the 12-5 Wildcats have managed to make a comeback after losing the doubles point. 
No. 3 junior Kristy Frilling lost her second singles match of the season against No. 16 Maria Mosolova in three sets. Mosolova took control of the third set with four straight aces. This broke Mosolova’s two-match losing record against Frilling. Frilling’s sin­gles record now stands at 15-2. 
Also in singles, No. 63 junior Shannon Mathews suffered a similar loss against No. 74 Belinda Niu, falling to Niu in the third set. Mathews is the most recent Big East player of the week. This loss brings her singles record to 14-3 on the year. 
Meanwhile, No. 105 freshman Jennifer Kellner defeated No. 87 Kate Turvey, securing the first singles victory for the Irish. Kellner now holds a singles record of 16-3 and has won nine of her last ten matches. 
Senior Kristen Rafael secured the only other singles win for the Irish against No. 50 Brittany Wowchuk. 
In doubles action, the No. 22 pair of Mathews and Frilling defeated the Wildcats’ No. 7 Linda Abu Mushrefova and Nida Hamilton, gaining the sec­ond point for the Irish in this 8­3 upset. 
The final doubles win for the Irish was gained by McGaffigan and Rafael, who defeated Mosolova and Belinda Niu 8-6. The pairing of McGaffigan and Rafael now has a record of 6-6. 
To end doubles competition, the freshman pairing of Kellner and Julie Sabacinski fell to Wowchuk and Elena Chernyakova 8-3. 
This match marks the 36th time the Irish have faced off against the Wildcats. Despite the loss, the Irish still lead in overall wins, 24-12. 
The Irish are in action once more on April 17 against Marquette. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Trine takes both in MIAA doubleheader 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles suffered a tough day in a doublehead­er against Trine, losing 3-2 and 14-2. 
“The hardest part was finding momentum as a team,” senior captain and 
outfielder Hayley Bojorquez. “We struggled to come back every time Trine fought back.” 
The Belles (10 -7, 0-4 MIAA) started off the first game in the top of the first with a pair of runs thanks to a double from freshman infielder Callie Selner. In the bottom of the second Trine gained an unearned run, and in the bottom of the fourth, the Thunder scored on a sacrifice fly and a single. 
In the second game, Trine had a quick start, leading 6-0 by the end of the third. The Belles man­aged a pair of runs in the bottom of the third when junior outfielder Lauren Enayati scored on a passed ball and Selner hit a ball to left field to allow Bojorquez to score the Belles’ final run. 
Trine battled back, bring­ing the final score to 14-2 after six innings. 
Bojorquez cited poor hit­ting as the main reason her team struggled in both games against Trine. 
“We combined [for] a total of four runs in both games, which is just not us,” Bojorquez said. “We are a much better hitting team than we showed today.” 
Selner suffered the loss in game one, while junior pitcher Monica Palicki took the defeat in game two. 
Saint Mary’s will hit the field once more in a dou­bleheader on theroadSaturday against No. 13 Adrian. They are looking to secure their first conference win. 
“Adrian is usually a pret­ty tough competitor, ” Bojorquez said. “We need to be ready for them to fight back.” 
In the time before the next game, Bojorquez wants to see the team begin to work to improve its hitting, as well as its general game play. 
“We want to fix the little things that didn 't work [against Trine],” Bojorquez said. “Those things will most likely include our hit­ting as well as more key small ball situations on both defense and offense.” 
The Belles will face Adrian in a doubleheader Saturday at 1:00 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
NHL 

Penguins, Islanders meet almost two months after brawl 
Associated Press  Friday night in February when the Islanders had revenge on  what could happen. I am sure there will still be emotions but  repeat of the mayhem that played out at Nassau Coliseum  we’ve got a certain group of guys, and we’re not going to  
UNIONDALE, N.Y.  — If the  their minds and took  care  of  I don’t know if it will be like  on Feb. 11. Any questionable  be focused  on  being involved  
Pittsburgh Penguins and New  getting it in all kinds of ways.  last time.”  hit or lopsided score or some- in anything other than playing  
York Islanders fought things  Whether the bad blood still  The last game featured 65  thing unforeseen could  re-our game and winning a hock­ 
ou t  on  t he  sil v e r  scree n  e x ists  when  the  Pengu in s  penalties, 346 penalty min- ignite a fuse that is likely still  ey game.”  
instead of  a  sheet of ice, the  re t u rn  to  Lo n g  I sl and  o n  utes, 10 ejections, 15 fighting  hot.  The Islanders, who are try- 
sequel would have  a  roman  Friday night remains to be  majors and 20 misconducts in  “We’ r e  goi ng  t o  pl ay  the  ing to stay out of the Eastern  
numeral tacked onto the title  seen.  the Islanders’ 9-3 victory that  game like  we  always can,”  Conference cellar, will be play- 
a la “Rocky.”  “Sometimes games like this,  wa s  never  c o mpe t iti v e .  Pengu in s  forw ard  Jorda n  ing in front of just their fourth  
It’s been two months since  there is all the hype and it’s  Records  w ere  se t  for  bot h  Staal said, “and  n ot  really  home sellout of the season  —  
the Atlantic Division rivals  just another game,” Islanders  tea ms  for  most  c o mbi n ed  worry about what happened  but third straight. This highly  
staged one of the most penal- tough guy Micheal Haley said  penalty minutes, and there  before.”  anticipated second round with  
ty-and fight-filled games they  Th ursday. “ They’re  in  t h e  were  few players around to  The fire  was  first lit nine  the Penguins will be greeted  
or  the NHL ha s  e ve r  s een.  playoffs, so they’ll be worried  finish the game.  da ys  befor e  t h e  p r e v io u s  by rabid fans certainly looking  
Much has changed since that  about that. It’s tough to say  Both sides tried to downplay  m atc hup  i n  a  ga me  at  for more eruptions on ice.  
what will happen  once  they  Pittsburgh. In that one, the  “I’ve come to the conclusion  
are  back  on  the ice together,  Islanders were angry about an  t hat  it ’s  p robably  in  ( th e  
and the teams are going in dif­ unpenalized hit to the head of  Pe nguins’)  ha n d s  h o w  t he  
ferent directions. New York  f o r wa rd  B la ke  C o me au  by  game is going to be played  
has only two games remaining  Pittsburgh’s Max Talbot that  out,” Islanders enforcer Zenon  
in a disappointing season, and  caused  a  concussion. They  Ko n o p ka  sa id  Th u rsday.  
Pittsburgh is playing out the  didn’t shy away from showing  “Obviously, two games ago, we  
string with only  a  potentially  their displeasure when they  were  upset with the way  our  
better postseason seeding  on  had  t he  Pe nguins  in  th ei r  players  were  being treated.  
the line in the final weekend.  home arena.  The next game  was  intense,  
“We  are in the playoffs and  And that’s where they will  and some people would say it  
we are trying to get ready for  have them again on Friday.  got out of hand.”  
playoffs. Their season is over,”  “I already addressed this  That’s an understatement.  
P e n g ui n s  f orw ard  P asca l  with our team on two separate  In  add iti on  to  t he  hi t  on  
Dupuis said. “It’s  a  different  occa s ion s .  Our  s o le  inte nt  C o me au  b ac k  o n  F eb.  2,  
at mos ph ere i n b ot h l o c ke r  going into that building is to  Islanders goalie Rick DiPietro  
r o oms.  I  don’t  expec t  too  win a hockey game and not be  also sustained facial fractures  
much to happen.”  interested in doing any other  and  a  knee injury when he  
AP  That seemed to be  a  com- k ind of activit y,” P enguins  wa s  s t r uc k  i n  a  f ig h t  by  
Islanders defenseman Travis Ha monic, right, takes a shot from  mon theme, but  no one  could  coa c h  Da n  By lsma  sa id.  Pe nguins  ne t mi n d er  B r e n t  
Penguins center Mike Rupp during a brawl Feb. 11 in N.Y.  be certain there wouldn’t be a  “We’re playing a certain way,  Johnson.  


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 8, 2011 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish head to Ky. for meet 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a strong perform­ance in the Mike Poehlein Invitational at Purdue, and with the season winding down, the Irish need to keep playing at a high level this weekend as they head to Kentucky for the Louisville Border Battle. 
The meet’s participants are Louisville, Kentucky, Indiana and Notre Dame. 
Irish sophomore Jeremy Rae said the team has performed well, but they would like to con­tinue their success so they have more representatives at the Big East championships. 
“Team-wise, we’d like to get 

Ryan 
continued from page 20 
tured forwards Jack and Mike Connolly as well as forward Justin Fontaine and defense-man Justin Faulk, were difficult for the Irish penalty kill unit to handle. 
“They were very versatile, they didn’t really have anything set,” he said. “They had a lot of movement on the other side of the ice with guys on the weak side. I give them all the credit. We were kind of standing around a little bit instead of picking guys up.” 
Notre Dame entered the Frozen Four with a power play unit ranked a mediocre 39th in the nation after converting with a 16.2 percent success rate throughout the season. The shaky unit had problems break­ing down the Bulldogs’ penalty kill unit all game, failing to reg-more people qualified for the Big East championships that are taking place less than a month from now,” Rae said. 
Rae said he has high personal expectations for the race, but he also sees the invitational as an opportunity to prepare for next week’s Mount SAC Relays in California. 
“Individually I’ll be running an 800-meter, which is shorter than I typically race but will help get me prepared for my next 1500-meter in Los Angeles next week,” Rae said. 
Junior Sean Lindbloom, who was recently sidelined for the season due to injury, said the team has handled the transition from the indoor season to the 
ister a shot on multiple power-play attempts. Faulk said his team’s penalty kill was effective in keeping the Irish out of the offensive zone. 
“I think it was just our gaps in the neutral zone, and our for­wards kind of pressured them off to one side and allowed our [defense] to step up and pinch them off at the blue line,” Faulk said. “Then even when they did get in the zone, I think when they were along the boards, we were able to pressure them pretty well. When they did have shot opportunities I think a lot of guys were willing to sacrifice their bodies and block a shot for the team.” 
Jackson said Notre Dame’s lack of a consistent and top-level point man to direct the power play — something Minnesota-Duluth had in Faulk 
— hurt the Irish in the game all season. 
“You know, to be honest with you, our special teams this year outdoor season well. 
“Moving into the outdoor sea­son, the team has been steadily improving in order to move clos­er to an outdoor Big East cham­pionship,” Lindbloom said. 
Another Irish runner looking to make an impact is freshman Michelle Brown, who placed first in the women’s 200-meter and 400-meter dashes last week at Purdue and will attempt to build on that success at the meet. 
The event will take place all day Saturday at the University of Louisville’s track and field facilities. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
have been a bit of a disappoint­ment. They’ve been one of the staples of our program for the last five years,” Jackson said. “We don’t have Duluth’s quar­terback out there at the point. I think [sophomore defenseman] Sam Calabrese is developing that, but Faulk is a threat out there from a shooting perspec­tive and he’s also a good play-maker. So we lack that right now.” 
Though the Irish played their best hockey Thursday night at even strength, Jackson ulti­mately conceded that better special teams are needed to advance late in the postseason. 
“I thought our guys played pretty well five-on-five,” he said. “But, you know, we need­ed to do a better job on the power play, which would have made a big difference in the game.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SOFTBALL 
Valdivida leads way in shutout victories 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Outstanding pitching and sharp defense highlighted the day as the Irish topped Butler by allowing just eight hits and one run throughout their dou­bleheader Thursday. 
Senior pitcher Jody Valdivia led the way in the 5-0 shutout, rebounding from a few slow pitching starts in previous games to match her career record of 14 strikeouts. Valdivia was able to get ahead of batters and took charge of the entire Bulldog lineup, including the school’s all-time home run leader junior first baseman Erin Falkenberry. The senior allowed just two hits and two walks in seven innings. 
“The past couple of outings I have been focusing on just spin­ning the ball, working on exe­cuting pitches and hitting my locations,” Valdivia said. “My catcher gave me great feedback all day and we were able to get into a good rhythm and just went with it.” 
Meanwhile the Irish offensive charge was led once again by senior Heather Johnson, who extended her hitting streak to 14 games and owned five of Notre Dame’s 16 hits on the day. Senior catcher Lex Clay also played an integral role from the plate, going two-for-five in the doubleheader with five RBI, including a three-run homer in the opening contest to score sophomore Amy Buntin and senior Brianna Jorgensborg. The Irish continue to focus on hitting in the clutch and not leaving runners on base as the season progresses. 
“The team did a great job of playing our own game,” Valdivia said. “We got the momentum going our way and tried to keep it that way. We were able to get clutch hits and keep putting the pressure on [Butler’s] defense which caused them to make mistakes.” 
The Bulldogs took their one and only lead of the day in the second contest when Butler jun­ior Jessica Huey hit a two-out single in the top of the third inning. But the Irish were able to come right back in the bot­tom of the inning when sopho­more Alexa Maldonado dou­bled, reached third on Clay’s sacrifice bunt, and crossed the plate as Johnson singled. Timely hits and Butler errors allowed Notre Dame to finish out the 6-1 victory in commanding fashion. 
The pair of wins extended the Irish winning streak to seven games, a tally that bodes well for the team’s success moving forward. 
“I feel like now that preseason is over and we are hitting con­ference play everyone has a good idea of where they are in terms of their own game,” Valdivia said. “Preseason gave us good goals to focus on and pointed out areas we fell short in that we have been working at improving. Our team is starting to hit its stride and we feel pret­ty confident moving forward into Big East.” 
Big East play will resume for the Irish this weekend as the team travels to Syracuse for a three-game series. 
“Syracuse has transitioned themselves into being a real competitive threat for Big East and are the reigning tourna­ment champions,” Valdivia noted. “We didn't have the opportunity to play them last year during regular season so we are excited to go compete with them this weekend and bring home some wins.” 
The Irish look to prove them­selves this weekend as they face Syracuse beginning Saturday at noon. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 



Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
BASEBALL 

Irish host UConn in three-game series 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have found a good time to start scoring runs, consid­ering that they will face their toughest challenge of the year thus far when they host Connecticut for a three-game series this weekend. 
After dropping the first two of a three-game series at Pittsburgh last weekend, Notre Dame (12­14-1, 3-3 Big East) has taken two in a row — including a 6-2 win Wednesday against a balanced Western Michigan team. 
The Irish bats have shown signs of catching up to the stellar starting pitching over this recent stretch, which comes as a sign of relief to Irish coach Mik Aoki, who has preached timely hitting to his team since day one. 

“We have a certain philosophy in the way that we approach the plate mentally and physically,” Aoki said. “The players have been working hard towards that and have been incorporating, assimilating that into game situa­tions.” 
The Irish are averaging over five runs per game in their last five games after previously aver­aging a little over three per game, including an early-season 19-run showing against Purdue. 
In its current two-game win­ning streak, Aoki’s squad has notched 14 runs on 20 hits, including four hits and five RBI from freshman first baseman Trey Mancini. Recruited by for­mer Irish coach Dave Schrage, the freshman sensation is batting .326 with 17 RBI and a .565 slug­ging percentage so far this sea­son. 
“Trey was recruited here based on the fact that he’s a really good offensive player. As coaches, we’ve reaped the benefits of that. He’s a worker. He’s one of the guys who’s done a good job of buying into the things we’ve been talking about and bringing that into game situations.” 
But the Irish face a tough test in dealing with Big East opponent Connecticut (15-10-1, 5-1), who is riding a five-game winning streak during which the team averaged over eight runs per game. The Huskies have only lost once over their last nine games, and most recently defeated Massachusetts 7-1 Wednesday night. 
The Huskies are led by all-time hits leader and senior first base­man Mike Nemeth, who brings a batting average of .340 and 20 RBI into the contest. Junior right-hander Matt Barnes (5-2) is slat­ed to take the hill. Barnes has paced the Huskies pitching staff this year, as the Connecticut ace has an ERA of 1.00 and averages seven strikeouts per game . 
“They have a couple of players that are projected first-rounders [in the 2011 MLB First-Year Player Draft],” Aoki said. “ We’re going to have our hands full this weekend with players like Barnes.” 
The Irish look to build on their winning streak by breaking that of Connecticut’s starting Friday at 
5:35 p.m., continuing Saturday at 
2:05 p.m. and concluding Sunday at 1:05 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum agastel1@nd.edu 


Jackson 
continued from page 20 
the middle portion of the game before mounting a comeback effort in the third period. “We played a good first half of the first period, and a good third period, but the second period killed us,” Tynan said. Jackson said that the Bulldogs’ ability to quickly answer his squad’s scores wore down his team in the second period and gave Minnesota-Duluth the intangible advantage it needed to earn a trip to the national championship game. “After Duluth scored the third goal, I thought we dipped a little bit emotionally in that our youth showed up a little bit,” he said. “I thought our body language got bad.” In the third period, however, the Irish poured on the attack, firing 15 shots on goal compared to the Bulldogs’ two in the final stanza. “I gave it to [the team] after the second,” Jackson said. “They came out and they responded, which they have all season long.” Ridderwall was one of three sen­iors making his final appearance in a Notre Dame uniform, along with center Ben Ryan and right wing Ryan Guentzel. Though still stinging from the hard-fought loss just moments earlier, the graduating players were able to reflect on their standard-setting tenure, which included the program’s first-ever Frozen Four appearance in 2008. “I’m just thankful for the University of Notre Dame giving me an opportunity to come here and be part of [the] program these last four years,” Guentzel said. “We’ve had a great ride: freshman year, playing in the national championship and then being able to come to Saint Paul my senior year with the great crowd and great atmosphere.” After a season in which the freshman-laden Irish far out­stripped every expectation by qualifying for the NCAA tourna­ment and then reaching the Final Four, the young squad came up just short in Minnesota after an inconsistent perform­ance. “I said it a few days ago — when you play in this event you have to play 60 minutes. Twice. And we didn’t,” Jackson said. “That’s really what it boiled down to.” “The puck just didn’t bounce our way tonight,” Guentzel said. “Sometimes that happens.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 8, 2011 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish look to continue success over Villanova 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
In a weekend of matches against Villanova and Syracuse in 2010, the Irish were near perfect in holding both teams scoreless for a combined 96 minutes. But what will they do for an encore? 
In the 16 -0 win over the Wildcats last year, sophomore goalie Ellie Hilling recorded the first and only shutout of her collegiate career. The 16­goal victory also marked the first blank slate in program history and the first in the Big East conference since 2001. 
“We can only duplicate it but not beat it because it’s so hard to shut anyone out,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “Hopefully we’ll have a simi­lar game.” 
Notre Dame (4-6, 1-1 Big East) opened Big East play last weekend, splitting a pair of games against Rutgers and non -conference opponent Loyola. The Irish snapped a brief two-game losing skid by defeating the Scarlet Knights 11 -6 behind a great game from freshman midfielder Kaitlyn Brosco. 
The Irish fell to then-No. 5 Loyola in a tight 13-10 loss. 
“All the girls are disappoint­ed but they want to play them again in the Big East tourna­ment,” Coyne said after the loss. “These are the weekends that prepare you for a cham­pionship.” 
The Wildcats (4-4, 0-1) are set to host their first Big East game of the season when they face off with the Irish today. Villanova, suffered an 11-2 loss to California in their pre­vious game on March 27th. In its season opener this year, Notre Dame convincingly defeated California 20-6. 
Junior midfielder Justine Donodeo leads the Wildcats in scoring, having tallied 24 goals and nine assists over Villanova’s first eight games. Donodeo has also put nearly 84 percent of her shots on goal. 
The goalkeeper position has been a revolving door for the Wildcats this season, as the team has taken the field with three different goalies. Freshman Julia Todd has started a team -high five games in between the pipes while surrendering just 7.18 goals per game. 
“We’re expecting [Todd] to be the starter, but the other two [goalies] are similar to her,” Coyne said. “We just want to have a great offensive game.” 
No matter which goalie starts for the Wildcats, Villanova will have a difficult time containing a potent Irish offense. Junior attack Maggie Tamasitis averages over two assists per contest and has contributed 21 assists on the year, extending her point streak to 28 games. Sophomore midfielder Jenny Granger has scored a team-high 17 goals this season. 
The Irish have been strong this year controlling the draw, winning the face-off 52 per­cent of the time. Senior mid­fielder Shaylyn Blaney and senior defender Jackie Doherty have combined to scoop up 48 ground balls and control 38 draws. 
On Sunday, the Irish will face No. 15 Syracuse (3-6, 1­
0) in the Carrier Dome, a place the Irish have never won. 
“We’ve circled this game on our schedule for a long time,” Coyne said. “We’re really looking forward to the compe­tition.” 
Orange senior goalie Liz Hogan, who owns a 44 per­cent save percentage, gar­nered high praise from Coyne and the Irish. 
“She’s very active and a great clearer,” Coyne said. “We’ve played a lot of great goalies recently.” 
The Irish take on the Wildcats today at 4:30 p.m before challenging the Orange Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles to face Bethel College 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s looks to extend its win streak to five and strengthen its MIAA resume this weekend with a non-con­ference match against Bethel College and an MIAA show­down with last year’s confer­ence runner-up, Hope College. 
This afternoon, Saint Mary’s, winners of eight of its past 11, takes the short trip to Mishawaka to face cross-town rival and NAIA opponent Bethel College (8-4) at 4 p.m. The Belles (8-5, 2-1 MIAA) have dominated the annual series with the Pilots in recent years, winning four straight matches from 2007-10, includ­ing the last three. 
Bethel top singles player, Molly O’Grady, holds a record of 9-3 and will face Saint Mary’s senior Jillian Hurley, who is 8-5. 
Less than 24 hours later, the Belles travel to Holland, Mich., for an MIAA match with Hope College (6-4, 2-0) at 1 p.m. The match should serve as a litmus test of the Belles’ ability to compete for an MIAA champi­onship, as the Flying Dutch were conference runners-up in 2010. Also, the Belles will look to avenge an 8-1 defeat to the Flying Dutch last season. 
Saint Mary’s and Hope have soundly defeated their only common opponent so far, Olivet College, by scores of 7-2 and 8-1 respectively. 
The No. 1 singles match will be of particular interest as it showcases two seniors, Olivet’s Katherine Garcia and Saint Mary’s Jillian Hurley, that have seen each other numerous times in conference play throughout their careers. Last year’s match was a narrow, 
Allen registered a 4.12 in the 20-yard shuttle, the pro agility 
Allen 
drill. 
continued from page 20 It was the top mark of the day, and would have ranked “There’s no question it’s going fifth at the Combine. to change the way I play.” Offensive lineman Chris 
Running back Armando Stewart, linebackers Brian 
back-and-forth contest, with Garcia prevailing in three sets, 6-3, 4-6 and 1-0 (10-8). Garcia also holds a 53-22 career record in singles play. 
Garcia has been a force in doubles play throughout her career with a record of 67-15, but is only 4-6 with sophomore partner Leah LaBarge in No. 1 doubles this season. 
Meanwhile, the Belles’ No. 2 doubles duo of seniors Mary Therese Lee and Franca Peluso and No. 3 tandem of freshman Mary Catherine Faller and senior Jessica Kosinski look to continue their recent success. Both pairs are a combined 7-1 in the team’s last four matches, answering Belles coach Dale Campbell’s call earlier in the season for improved doubles play. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
Smith and Kerry Neal, wide receiver Duval Kamara and defensive lineman Ian Williams also participated in the Pro Day. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 8, 2011 

ME ’S LACROSSE 

Irish to face Hoyas Sunday 

By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
In anticipation of a large crowd and a competitive matchup, the No. 2 Irish are eager to take the field for their Playing for Peace Game against Georgetown as they look to remain undefeated on the season. 
Coming off a 13-7 win over Mount Saint Mary’s on Tuesday, Georgetown (5-4) has won three of its last four contests. However, three of its four losses were against opponents currently ranked in the top five of Inside Lacrosse’s nation­al standings. 
Irish junior attack Sean Rogers said he is confident the team will approach the Hoyas with the same intensity as always. 
“First and foremost, they beat us last year,” Rogers said. “It came down to us and them for the final spot, and we beat them out. They are going to come in with a lot of desire. A lot of our kids played their kids in high school, and their roster’s full of big time players and All-Americans. I’m not worried about us overlooking them, that’s for sure.” 
The Hoyas average 11.8 goals per game, but their opponents average 11.1 goals, which has cre­ated several down-to-the-wire match-ups thus far. The fewest number of goals they have scored this season is eight. 
“I looked at their scores, and there are two games that they gave up 20 and 16 goals, respectively,” Rogers said. “Besides that, the numbers are skewed. When teams 

Frozen 
continued from page 20 
importantly, over the past six years, Jackson has succeeded in his goal of establishing a winning culture within the program. 
Not many players can graduate saying they’ve played in two Frozen Fours, and one champi­onship game, over their careers, but Irish seniors Calle Ridderwall, Ryan Guentzel and Ben Ryan can. 
“Sitting here right now it’s bit­ter, but I’m extremely proud of the team we had,” Ridderwall said. “I’m extremely proud to say I played four years of college hock­ey for the University of Notre Dame.” 
Those three seniors, along with classmate Joe Lavin, have laid the foundation for an elite hockey program. Ridderwall’s overtime game-winning goal in 2008 is the most important moment in Irish hockey history. Ryan’s back-to­back game-winners in the 2009 CCHA championship gave Notre Dame its second-ever Mason Cup. Guentzel emerged as a dominant assist-man this season, with more points, goals and assists this year than in his first three years com­bined. Lavin, who transferred from Providence midway through last season, immediately stepped into a leadership position and captained this exceptionally young want to go up and down with them, their team gets a sense of that, and their offense tries to score goals and [their] defense gives up more goals. We’re not necessarily a team that will get into that kind of match with them, but who knows, after last week we could put up a lot of goals.” 
The No. 8 Hoyas bring a fast-paced offense and an athletic defense to the field. Senior defenseman Kevin Ridgway said the Irish (7-0) must treat Georgetown like any other team and play to their strengths in order to be successful. 
“They have a bunch of guys who can make plays, and they’re very in tune to how they make those plays. They put those guys in posi­tion to be a threat to score,” the co-captain said. “Obviously you want to win your individual matchup. We want to just play the way we play. We’re good at slide and recovery, and if we do that well then we should be able to hold them to less than eight [goals].” 
Ridgway commented that this experienced Irish team is unlikely to fall in the same trap as last year’s squad did and become over­ly concerned by the rankings. 
“We’re not getting too caught up in [the rankings],” Ridgway said. “We got a little lost in it last year, but this year [I tell my teammates], ‘Just keep the focus day to day. Don’t worry about our ranking. It’ll take care of itself if we just focus on the little things.’” 
Under Irish assistant coach Kevin Dugan’s direction, the team will be sponsoring a Playing for 
Irish team to the Frozen Four. 
They won’t be here when (not if) Notre Dame wins its first national championship, but those four seniors will have played an instrumental role. 
It’s difficult to see the silver lin­ing now. I wrote Thursday that Frozen Fours are tough to come by, and that the Irish needed to take advantage since they were here. That’s still true; there is no doubt that this was a missed opportunity for the Irish. But, now that this season has come to a close, there is nowhere to look but the future. 
The most tangible evidence of Notre Dame’s growth as a hockey program will undoubtedly be on full display next October. The Irish will be opening the brand new Compton Family Center, and will do so by raising a Frozen Four banner, at that. It won’t be the banner the Irish had been hoping for, but it’s an incredible accom­plishment nonetheless. 
With rafter space at the Joyce Center almost full, here’s hoping the designs for the Compton Center include plenty of room for more banners. There’s no doubt Notre Dame is going to need it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu. 
Peace seven-versus-seven interhall lacrosse tournament following the Georgetown game. The event is co­sponsored by the men’s lacrosse and men’s basketball teams. 
“We hope that the student body will come out to cheer on our team,” Dugan said. “We’ve really worked hard to raise awareness in Sudan, but we’ve also done it in a way that we’re building relation­ships with our fellow students. We hope the students want to come out and support the need to be in solidarity with Sudan, but also their alma mater, their school.” 
Rogers said he has high expecta­tions for the event, and he hopes to see the students at the game Sunday. 
“We obviously loved the support we got for Villanova,” he said. “We fed off the energy. It’ll be a TV game, so come out and get on TV. Make a sign or something. All the students on the hill out there — they’re so loud, and [they make] it tough for the other team. We defi­nitely hear them.” 
The Irish look to extend their winning streak against Georgetown Sunday at 12 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, April 8, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDV LLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, April 8, 2011 page 20 
HOCKEY 

Frozen out 
Penalty kill, power play hurt Irish 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
SAINT PAUL, Minn. –– There is little doubt in the mind of Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson as to what ended his team’s season one step short of the national championship game: The Irish special teams, a weakness all season, were exposed on the biggest stage in their 4-3 loss to Minnesota-Duluth. 
“People can see the game. Obviously that game was dic­tated by one thing: special teams,” Jackson said. “They have an exceptional power play, and we couldn’t generate any offense on the power play. So I thought we played a good game five-on-five. Other than that, you know, the game was completely determined by spe­cial teams.” 
The Irish problems on special teams began after freshman wing Jeff Costello gave them a 1-0 lead in the game’s first minute. Nearly a minute later, fellow freshman and center David Gerths was whistled for hooking, and the Bulldogs wasted no time in answering on a goal less than a minute later from J.T. Brown to even the game at one. 
The exchange was a harbin­ger of things to come for Jeff Jackson’s bunch, as Notre Dame allowed two more power-play goals over the course of the first two periods while managing just two shots in their own four power-plays in that span. Minnesota­Duluth’s superiority on their power-play unit was evident throughout the affair, with the Bulldogs notching their final two power-play goals within the first 25 seconds of their man-up advantage. 
Senior center Ben Ryan said the versatility and speed of the Bulldog unit, which heavily fea­
see RYAN/page 14 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Freshman center T.J. Tynan, right, reacts to Notre Dame’s 4-3 loss to Minnesota-Duluth in the national semifinal Thursday night in St. Paul, Minn. 
By ALLAN JOSEPH zone. We had some shots, power-play tally. 
Sports Editor but we just couldn’t get “That was kind of a crazy 
them through.” start,” Irish coach Jeff 

SAINT PAUL, Minn. – Notre Dame opened the Jackson said. “Five-on-five I 
Down 4-2 early in the third Frozen Four with a bang as thought we were doing 
period of the national semi-f r e s h m a n final game and facing a red-left wing hot Minnesota -Duluth Jeff Costello power play, Notre Dame beat Reiter thought it had turned the glove -side corner when senior left just 49 sec-wing Calle Ridderwall blast-onds into ed a shot from just inside the game to the blue line past Bulldog give the goalie Kenny Reiter to pull Irish a 1-0 the Irish within one. It was advantage. not to be, however, as Merely two Reiter stonewalled the m i n u t e s Notre Dame attack the rest l a t e r , 
of the way to give though the Minnesota-Duluth a 4-3 vic-B u l l d o g s 
“Five-on-fve I thought we were doing great, and then you put them on the power play and it certainly sets you 
back.” 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
great, and then you put them on the power play and it certain­ly sets you back — not just from a score per ­spective but a mental per ­spective.” 
The Bulldogs would open up a two-goal 

tory over the Irish in front of 19,139 fans at the Xcel Energy Center. 
“It was huge, [and it gave us] momentum the whole [third] period,” Ridderwall said. “We were pressuring them down low in their scored the first of their three power-play goals to pull even. The tie lasted just six minutes, as freshman center T.J. Tynan found the back of the net, only to see his goal answered 66 sec­
onds later on another 
lead on the strength of a 
withering man-up attack and stalwart penalty-kill unit. Notre Dame did itself no favors, as Jackson’s squad struggled throughout 
see JACKSON/page 15 
ND moving into college hockey’s elite 
By SAM WERNER 
Senior Sports Writer 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — It just wasn’t the year. 
There are plenty of technical reasons Notre Dame lost Thursday night. Minnesota­Duluth’s machine-like power play scored at a 50 percent clip, while the Irish man­aged only two shots on five uninspired attempts with the man advantage. 

Sam Werner
In a larger sense, Senior though, when Sports Writer 
you get down to just four teams playing single-elimination tournament games — on a stage few college players have ever played on — it’s sometimes just a matter of how the puck bounces. 
The dominant storyline coming out of this Frozen Four should not be that Notre Dame came up short yet again. It should be that the Irish, who just six years ago were a CCHA doormat, have fully entered into college hockey’s elite. 
In college hockey, there is a rel­atively small group of schools that annually contend for a Frozen Four appearance: Michigan, Boston College and North Dakota, to name a few. Without any national titles to its name, Notre Dame definitely is not in that group yet. It’s not unreasonable, though, for Notre Dame to begin every season with aspirations of making the Frozen Four. 
Clearly, the Irish will not actual­ly make the Frozen Four every year, but recent history has posi­tioned Notre Dame as an annual contender. The Irish have Jeff Jackson, arguably the best coach in college hockey, and this year’s crop of impressive freshmen is only going to get better. Most 
see FROZEN/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

Players get opportunity to showcase talent 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Nine former Irish players took another step toward attaining their dream of playing in the NFL Thursday at Notre Dame’s annual Pro Day. 
Scouts from 28 of the 32 NFL teams attended, and watched as tight end Kyle Rudolph high­lighted the day’s action. Rudolph could be selected in the first round of the NFL Draft on April 28, and his performance in the Loftus Center should have helped his chances, NFL Network and NBC analyst Mike Mayock said. 
“I think everyone came away from today with a buzz about how good [Rudolph’s] hands are,” Mayock said. 
Rudolph had the advantage of receiving passes from Rob Florian, an alumnus of Elder High School, the same school Rudolph attended. Florian later served as the signal caller at the University of Dayton. 
“It was awesome,” Rudolph said. “I grew up with Rob, watched him play. He was four years ahead of me in grade school and high school. He was a very successful quarterback at Elder High School in Cincinnati. 
He’s got a great ball.” 
Rudolph said he felt he suc­cessfully exhibited his skills for the scouts and hopes he ended any worries about his ham­string injury. 
“I’m happy [with the perform­ance],” Rudolph said. “The main objective for me was to get out there and show every­one that I’m healthy and that the hamstring [injury] is a thing of the past.” 
Rudolph said he enjoyed see­ing the field again after missing the final eight games of the sea­son because of the injury. 
“It was great to get out here and to be able to run around and be healthy,” Rudolph said. “It’s been six months [since] my surgery and to be able to come out here and run around like I used to was a lot of fun.” 
Cornerback Darrin Walls recorded the top 40-yard dash time, clocking in at 4.39 sec­onds. The time would have been the third highest at the NFL Combine, held the last week of February.. 
“I felt pretty good,” Walls said. “I came out here and did some things I wanted to do. 
“I don’t feel pressure at all. I didn’t get invited to the Combine, I didn’t get invited to the Senior Bowl, so I came in with a chip on my shoulder. I tried to come in and prove peo­ple wrong, so I hope I did that.” 
Running back Robert Hughes arrived appearing like a new man, checking in at 226 lbs, 14 pounds lighter than his 2010 playing weight. He recorded 26 repetitions in the bench press, raising the attention of the scouts. 
“I felt like I did great,” Hughes said. “I felt like I helped myself. 
“I just did cardio and busted my tail, working out twice a day and eating right, changing my diet a lot really helped,” he said. 
see ALLEN/page 16 





