
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Renovators expand Inn 
University uses donations to construct new rooms in the Morris Inn 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
More than 60 years ago, a Notre Dame Law School grad­uate donated $1 million to the University to construct the Morris Inn. 
In 2013, renovators will fin­ish adding new rooms and updating the venue’s facilities thanks to a $15 million gift from that same donor’s daugh­ter. 
University Trustee Emerita Ernestine Raclin, along with other members of her family and the Carmichael Founda­tion, recently donated the mon­ey through the “Spirit of Notre Dame” campaign, according to a University press release. 


Game day operations run smoothly despite storm 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
For the second time this sea­son, intense storms changed the course of game day activities. 
But this time, Saturday’s se­vere weather was brief and al­most completely unpredicted. 
Mike Seamon, director of Game Day Operations and as­sociate vice president of Campus Safety, said officials had been tracking the weather going into the weekend and that all in­formation pointed to “cool and clear” until about 10:30 a.m. on game day. 
“[It] kind of popped out of no­where, was intense [and] short in duration,” Seamon said. “As quickly as it came, it left.” 
He said Notre Dame issued the first campus-wide announce­ment of the day around noon, warning people that a storm was approaching and advising them to find shelter. 

see GAMEDAY/page 5 
Raclin’s father, Ernest Mor­ris, funded the original con­struction of the Inn, which was dedicated in May 1952 after his death. 
William Beirne, director of the Morris Inn, said public feedback for the project has been extremely positive. 

see INN/page 5 
OIT provides Google + access to ND students 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students can now “Hangout” online with their so­cial “Circles” through Google+ accounts open to anyone with a University Gmail account. 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) informed students last week that an advance release field trial of Google+ would be available through the University. 
Mike Chapple, senior direc­tor for OIT Enterprise Support Services, said students previ­ously needed to be invited by a friend to join Google+. 
“Previously, you had to have an invitation for Google + to work, but now you can just sign up with your ND account,” Chapple said.  “It’s the same service that’s been available to regular Gmail users since July, now available to ND users.” 
Chapple said one of the ben­efits of Notre Dame’s access to Google+ is that students no longer need to log out of their Notre Dame email accounts to access the social network. 
Sophomore Nicole Gantz said she is happy to have stream­lined her email and Google+ ac­counts. 
“It’s nice to have the full functionality of Google all in one area,” Gantz said. “I’m ex­cited by this new integration of Google’s services all under my ND account.” 
The email advertising Google+ accounts said the so­cial networking site could be useful to the student body for a number of reasons. 
“There are many possibilities for using Google+,” the email said. “Below are just a few ideas to get you started: share your thoughts with a project group, friends or family circle; have a Hangout with up to nine classmates; keep up with your connections from your mobile device.” 
Despite the benefits pro­moted by OIT, sophomore Sean Doherty said he does not see the value of Google+. 

see GOOGLE/page 5 



Brothers debuts at Eddy Street 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 

The new Brothers Bar & Grill opened at Eddy Street Commons this weekend, and given the success of the bar’s first few days of operation, company management said it expects greater success and popularity moving for­ward. 
Scott Severson, vice presi­dent of franchising and de­velopment, said the company could not be happier with the bar’s first weekend. 
“We were very happy with the weekend … I don’t think we’ve had a bigger or better opening than we’ve had in South Bend,” Severson said. “It was absolutely spectacu­lar.” 
Despite some small chal­lenges associated with open­ing weekend, Severson said customers seemed pleased with their experience. 
“The community has been incredibly welcoming to us,” Severson said. “I can’t tell you how many people came up to me … and said, ‘Thank you for coming to South Bend.’ … When we did run into ser­vice issues, everybody was incredibly patient and sym-pathetic and understanding.” 

Severson said the new lo­cation offers 80 different tap handles with 37 different types of beer. 
“What the students will see in our store in South Bend is a spectacular array of tap beers,” Severson said. “It is really the showcase of that store, and it is something we have gotten great feedback on.” 
The bar also does not plan to have a cover charge, Sev­erson said. 
“It was a very, very simple business plan,” Severson said. “We wanted to offer our customers a really nice venue, and offer them food and beverage items that were 


see BROTHERS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER South Bend children trick-or-treat at Saint Mary’s page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u ‘Tower Heist’ free prescreening page 8 u Men’s basketball opens season page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, November 1, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS A FEAR THAT YOU HAVE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Megan Doyle Joseph Monardo Nicole Toczauer Molly Sammon Emma Russ Joe Wirth Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Marissa Frobes Photo Viewpoint Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 61 LOW 37 



Alec Fogarty  Mary McCormick  Christian Knight  Stephanie Lobaccaro  Sean Lindbloom  Colby Hoyer  
freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  senior  freshman  
Carroll  Badin  Duncan  Welsh Family  off campus  Pangborn  
“Getting  “Living  “Cockroaches  “Getting my eyes  “Being put on  “Finding bugs in  
attacked by my  eternally.”  and tornadoes.”  poked out.”  the spot for the  my bed.”  
roommate while  ‘Question of the  
I sleep.”  Day.’”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Baby siezed from parents in sandwich theft 
HONOLULU — A preg­nant mother says she was traumatized by a “horri­fying” ordeal at a Hono­lulu supermarket last week when she and her husband were arrested for stealing sandwiches and had their 2-year-old daughter taken into state custody. 
Nicole Leszczynski sobbed Monday as she recounted what started as a family trip to the Safeway super­market. The 30-weeks preg­nant Leszczynski munched on a chicken salad sandwich while shopping, but forgot to pay for it. 
The couple was arrested after they paid $50 for gro­ceries, but not two sand­wiches. 

Their daughter was tak­en away for 18 hours. The couple, who recently moved to Hawaii from Monterey, Calif., was released on $50 bail each. Safeway told KHON-TV that it “may not have handled this matter in the best pos­sible way.” 
Man criticized for creepy Halloween decoration 
DUBLIN, Ohio — An Ohio homeowner has moved a Halloween decoration of a hanging man because police said some found it too real­istic and spooky. 
Officers in the Columbus suburb of Dublin said they received five complaints about the 6-foot figure hanging in a tree close to a road. Police told WSYX-TV that people found the dis­play disturbing and feared it could cause a traffic ac­cident. 
The homeowner, who asked not to be identified, tells the station that Hallow­een should be creepy and that his decoration was “all in good fun.” 
But he moved it to a tree closer to his house and away from the street. Where it used to hang, he has placed a sign that says: “less realis­tic decoration.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
There will be a blood drive today from 11 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Call the RecSports office at 574-631­6100 to register. 
The men’s soccer team will play Seton Hall at 2 
p.m. today at Alumni Sta­dium. The game is resched­uled from Monday, Oct. 31. Admission is free. 
The Hesburgh Center for International Studies will host a Día de los Muertos celebration tonight from 6 to 9 p.m. The event features internationally known art­ist Ana Teresa Fernandez. It will be held in the Great Hall in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The men’s basketball team will play an exhibi­tion game against St. Xavier tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion of the Joyce Center. Tickets range from $15 to $40. 
“Silent Shakespeare: An Evening With Thanhouser Films” will show tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center from 7:30 to 9 
p.m. 
The event features the short films “The Winter’s Tale,” “Cymbeline” and “King Lear.” 

The Kroc Institute for International Peace Stud­ies and Gender Studies will host a panel discussion titled “Women, War & Peace” at 8 

p.m.
 tonight. The discussion will take place in DeBartolo Hall Room 141. 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









HIGH 63 LOW 44 
HIGH 52 LOW 37 
HIGH 56 LOW 39 
HIGH 58 LOW 43 

Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




South Bend children trick-or-treat at Saint Mary’s  College 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Witches, goblins, vampires and princesses ran through the dorms at Saint Mary’s on Sunday night as faculty and members of the local community brought their children to trick-or-treat at the College. 
The Resident Hall Associa­tion (RHA) sponsored the event through the dorms. Junior Gina Althoff, a resident advisor and RHA all-school formal chair, greeted the trick-or-treaters at the front desk in Regina Hall on Sunday night. 
“We extended a special invite to the Saint Mary’s trick-or-treat­ing to our service partner, South Bend’s Center for the Homeless,” Althoff said. “We saw a large turnout from the Center and were excited to be able to provide a safe and fun event for those children. It was also a unique opportunity to see professors and other staff members with their families.” 
Biology professor Ryan Domb­kowski and his wife brought their Mary’s last year and got lots of 2-year-old son Reece to trick-or-candy, so that’s why I wanted treat around the College campus. to come this year. Oh, and my 
“It’s nice to not have to worry grandma works here.” about weather, cars, crossing the Students said they enjoyed trick-
street and other  or-treating just  
safety issues,” D om bkow sk i . “It’s great to see  “It’s part of continuing the tradition.”  as much as the children. Ju­nior Caroline  
all the students  Keep  opened  
get involved.”  Ann Sheldon  her  door  and  
Welcome Cen- Class of ‘07  dressed  as  a  

ter reception­ist Ann Sheldon brought her daughter, Lauren Sheldon Ogren ’07, and grandson to LeMans Hall for candy. 
“My daughter is Saint Mary’s graduate,” Sheldon said. “She al­ways gave out candy to the trick-or-treaters as a student, but now it’s her first time bringing her son around. It’s part of continuing the tradition.” 
Eight-year-old Zach Toul sport­ed fangs and a cape for his vam­pire costume. 
“Vampires are so cool and scary,” Toul said. “I came to Saint peanut M&M 
for trick-or­
treat night. 
“When I was little, I went trick­or-treating at the college my mom worked at,” Keep said. “I knew I wanted to give out candy to the kids.” 
Junior Liz Kraig enjoyed deco­rating her room in celebration of Halloween. 
“I love giving out candy and seeing the kids’ costumes,” Kraig said. “It’s just a really fun event for all of us.” 

Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles@saintmarys.edu 



COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 

Reece, the two-year-old son of Biology professor Ryan Dombkowski, makes his way through the hallway of LeMans Hall while gathering candy in his bag. 



CEC welcomes Snead as new director 


By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Center for Ethics and Culture (CEC) will welcome new leadership as law pro­fessor Carter Snead prepares to take over as director July 1, according to a University press release. 
Snead said in an email in­terview that his most gen­eral goal in his new posit ion would be to build upon the CEC’s existing achieve ­ments. 
“The Cen­ter for Eth­ics and Culture is an essen­tial, indispensable institution dedicated to the pursuit of matters that lie at the heart of Notre Dame’s distinctive educational and religious mission,” Snead said. “It has been a vibrant forum for dia­logue and exchange for elite and emerging scholars from a diversity of viewpoints and disciplines.” 
The Center hosts “lectures, conferences, film and litera-ture series, awards, student formation programs and oth­er initiatives” since its found­ing in 1999, according to the release. 

The annual CEC Flagship Fall Conference will be held on campus from Nov. 10 to 12. 
Snead said the Center’s unique work facilitates an ex­ceptional platform for schol­arly ethical debate. 
“[The Center] has been a place for students, scholars and public figures inside and outside of Notre Dame to ex­plore together the richness of the Catholic tradition, includ­ing especially its unique re­sources for engaging concrete ethical problems in the broad­er culture,” he said. 
John McGreevy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said in the release that Snead would build upon the Center’s existing programs. 
“We all welcome Carter Snead into his new role and look forward to the programs and publications that will emerge under his leadership,” McGreevy said. 
Snead’s area of expertise focuses on the relationship between bioethics and law, and he has previously served on the President’s Council on Bioethics, the Council of Eu­rope’s Steering Committee on Bioethics and the United Na­tions Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization’s (UNESCO) International Bio­ethics Committee, the release stated. His work has been published in the New York University Law Review and the Harvard Law Review Fo­rum. 
Snead will replace profes­sor of Philosophy W. David Solomon as director. Solo­mon, in addition to his role as CEC’s founding director, has lectured on ethical theory and medical ethics at more than 100 colleges and universities and co-authored “Abortion and Public Policy” and “The Synoptic Vision: The Philoso­phy of Wilfrid Sellars,” the re­lease stated. 
In the release, McGreevy praised the achievements of the center made possible un­der Solomon’s leadership. 
“All of us are grateful to Da­vid Solomon for his work at the center as its founding di­rector and visionary, and his continued effort to enrich not just scholarly conversation but student intellectual life at Notre Dame,” McGreevy said. 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



SMC club celebrates Dia de los Muertos 

By JILL BARWICK 
News Writer 
Decorated skulls will rest on an altar in Saint Mary’s Stu­dent Center Atrium this week to commemorate Dia de los Muertos, or Day of the Dead, and honor loved ones who have passed away. 
La Fuerza, a group that cel­ebrates Latino culture, hosted an event to decorate the skulls Monday evening in the Student Center. 
Senior Areli Bautista, a member of La Fuerza, said people sometimes misunder­stand the holiday’s purpose. 
“In Mexico and other parts of the world, the Day of the Dead is a day to remember loved ones and bring cultures together,” Bautista said. “This is a day of celebration, not mourning.” 
Students decorated the skulls with bright colors like blue and green for the display. 
“By creating and decorating things like skulls with vibrant colors, rather than black, dark colors, it reminds us that the Day of the Dead is a celebra­tion of loved ones,” Bautista said. 
The celebration takes place every year on Nov. 1 and 2 during the Catholic holidays of All Saints’ Day and All Souls’ Day. 
The skulls will remain on the altar in the Atrium un­til Friday. Bautista said Mass will be celebrated at 9 p.m. Wednesday in the Le Mans Holy Spirit Chapel. 
“The prayer services are for remembering loved ones that have passed and celebrating the lives they had,” she said. “That is the true meaning of Dia de los Muertos.” 

Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Inn 
continued from page 1 

“They have said it’s been long overdue,” Beirne said. “People are happy to see the Inn stay at the center of our campus. There’s a great affin­ity for the Morris Inn. It means a lot to a lot of people. This renovation is a great thing for the Inn and the University. It’s a great inn, and this renova­tion should take care of cam­pus hospitality for the next 25 to 50 years.” 
Beirne said the best im­provements would be the ad­ditional guest rooms and new 300-seat ballroom. The reno­vations, which will begin in November in 2012, will in­crease the number of guest rooms from 92 to 138, the re­lease stated. 
“This project brings the Morris Inn up to date,” Beirne said. “It brings it within the marketplace, especially for weddings and other special events.” 
The lobby and Leahy’s Pub will also be renovated, and all of the plumbing, heating, cool­ing and electrical systems will be replaced. In addition to the new ballroom, three private dining rooms will be added. 
The building is slated to grow from 72,000 to 130,000 square feet upon completion, the release stated. The Univer­sity will also seek LEED Silver certification for environmen­tally friendly practices in de­sign and construction of the facility. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins said in the re­lease that the gift would allow the University to continue its tradition of hospitality at the Morris Inn. 
“The generosity of Ernes­tine and her family is legend­ary, both for Notre Dame and in our community, and we are tremendously apprecia­tive of their latest expression of that generosity,” Jenkins said. “This gift will enable us to continue to welcome alumni and visitors in the warm, wel­coming style that we always hope is one of Notre Dame’s distinguishing characteris­tics.” 
Morris appealed to the Uni­versity in 1905 for financial assistance, the release stated. He received a $100 loan and was accepted for legal stud­ies. After his graduation, he worked in law and finance, and in 1917, he founded what developed into the Associates Investment Corporation of America. 
Morris, who died in 1951, never saw the completion of the Inn he funded, the re­lease stated. His wife, Ella Morris, saw the finished ho­tel and served as chair of the Notre Dame Women’s Advi­sory Council before she passed away in 1969. 
Raclin and her family led major campaigns for the Uni­versity, the release stated. 
“Our family has a long and deep emotional bond with the University and with the Mor­ris Inn,” Raclin said in the re­lease. “We are very pleased to have an opportunity to deepen this association and to help ensure that the Inn continues to play a prominent role in the life of the University. 
“The Morris Inn has long been a treasure, not just for the Notre Dame community, but for all of Michiana. It is where the community and the campus meet.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 




Gameday 
continued from page 1 
“About 12:30 p.m. or so [the storm] hit campus and covered the ground in hail and snow and sleet,” Seamon said. “Peo­ple who were tailgating had to seek shelter. It was really, re­ally unusual.” 
The storm passed campus by 1 p.m., Seamon said, and the University issued an all-clear message over the loudspeakers at 1:10 p.m. 
He said soon after the an­nouncement, fans resumed tailgating, and the sky was clear for the rest of the day dur­ing the Notre Dame victory over Navy. 
Phil Johnson, director of Notre Dame Security Police, said police made only one ar­rest inside Notre Dame Stadi­um on Saturday. 
Outside the stadium, police issued four citations for under­age drinking. One man was transported by ambulance to the hospital, and his case has been forwarded to the prosecu­tor’s office for public intoxica­tion and disorderly conduct, Johnson said. 
Despite the brief storms Sat­urday, Seamon said the Game Day weekend was a success overall. 
“It was a really good week­end, minus the little weather incident we had,” he said. “Ev­erything worked really well. It was a great victory.” 
Seamon said 8,000 people attended the pep rally Friday. 
Over 3,300 visitors walked through the tunnel, and 1,000 attended the football luncheon. The LaBar practice field had 1,035 visitors on game day. 
“[There was] a lot of excite­ment [with the] Halloween weekend and home game. Peo­ple were ready to go, which I thought (was) great,” Seamon said. 
Seamon said that as usual, Notre Dame fans showed great support for the team and a high level of respect for Navy. 
“I thought it was a great at­mosphere. There was a lot of respect for the rivalry with Navy,” Seamon said. “People were fired up to get back to winning.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



Google 
continued from page 1 
Doherty created an account, but does not plan to use it. 
“I created an account when it first came out, but since then I haven’t looked at it in a while because it didn’t offer me any­thing that Facebook didn’t,” Doherty said. 


Brothers 
continued from page 1 
competitively priced in the market.” 
The entire menu, with only a few exceptions, offers food made from scratch, Severson said. 
“At the end of the day, we are a bar that serves really good food,” Severson said. 
The venue, built in just three months, will be a model for future locations. 
“The food is great, the en­vironment is great [and] it’s been very positive,” Severson said. “We’re very excited and very happy to be in the South Bend market.” 
Students who visited the bar over the weekend said they were pleased with their expe­riences. 
Senior John Heid said he was curious about Brothers before it opened a location in South Bend. 
“I heard good things about it at other schools,” Heid said, “but it was also close to cam­pus, and I didn’t need to call a cab to get there.” 
Heid called Brothers a “pleasant change” from other local bars. 
“I love the Backer and Fin­ny’s, but I don’t want to be standing in an inch of spilled beer every Friday and Satur­day,” Heid said. “I think the centrally located bar was a great idea; everybody wasn’t crowding in the same place. The only problem I had with Brothers was that the dance floor was too small.” 
Senior Christina Kuklinski said she appreciated the lack of cover charge at the bar. 
“Brothers has the potential 
Doherty said he does not know many other students that use Google+. 
“All of my friends are on Face­book, so I don’t see a point in going to another website that’s pretty much the same,” he said. “I don’t think Google+ really offers anything that Facebook doesn’t.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
to offer something a little dif­ferent than your typical South Bend bar,” Kuklinski said. “It’s a lot more laid back than other places, and it’s within walking distance, which is a definite advantage. It was nice to just go and talk with people and not be drowned out by music.” 
The environment at the bar was more relaxed earlier in the night, but became more busy and loud as everyone be­gan to dance later at night, Kuklinski said. 
No cover charge was also a draw for senior Tony Dang. 
“Everywhere else in town has a cover on Saturday nights,” Dang said. “It was nice to just walk in.” 
Even during the first week­end, Dang said the bar was busy. 
“It was pretty lively, and they had good music going on,” he said. “What was inter­esting was that they have a lot of TVs in there, and they play the music videos to the songs they are playing, which is kind of cool. It reminded me of bars I’ve been to in Chicago … You haven’t seen that around here.” 
Dang said he visited a Broth­ers location in West Lafayette, Ind., when he visited the city for the Notre Dame football game against Purdue earlier this year. He said he hopes Brothers continues to attract students and develop a similar college-town feel. 
“That place was packed full of people,” Dang said. “That’s what makes it fun, when you can see a lot of people. Hope­fully that’s going to be the case here as more people learn about the bar.” 


Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 1, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Sister, sister 
I spent the summer before my se­nior year of college living in a con­vent. In Kansas City, Mo., 1,500 miles away from home. And it was one of the best summers of my life. 
No, I am not on my way to becoming a sister or enter­ing religious life. Faith is an impor­tant part of my life, but I want to live and share my faith in different ways. The experiences I had this past sum­mer, the stories I brought back with me and the women I met, however, will forever be a part of my life and brought a new perspective to it. 
Over the summer, I participated in the Summer Service Learning Pro­gram through the Center for Social Concerns. My site was Cristo Rey Kansas City High School, where I worked all over the school, helping out in classrooms and with different administrators, but mostly in their Corporate Work Study Program of­fice. 
I won’t lie — I was a little nervous about my decision to head to Kansas City for eight weeks of my summer and my apprehension only grew when I learned I would not be living with an alumni family there, but instead in a convent with a group of sisters. Succumbing to stereotypes, I pic­tured myself living in a tiny room with a bunch of stern women who were always in their habits and never smiled. I was terrified. 
I could not have been more wrong about my time in Kansas City. 
When I arrived at Xavier House, a convent of the Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth, I was greeted with open arms and wide smiles. I wasn’t entering a stone dungeon, but rather a converted preschool. Sure, my room was small, but I’ve lived in smaller and it was all I really needed. 
Over the course of the summer, Sis­ter V, Sister Mary Rachel, Sister Mary Geraldine, Kate and Denise treated me as a part of their family. I worked with them. I learned to cook and grill with them. I prayed with them. I painted with them. I roadtripped with them. I celebrated birthdays and jubilees with them. I laughed with them — harder sometimes than I ever have in my life. 
If you had told me in May that I would have left Xavier House with such a heavy heart, I would have laughed at you. But leaving that house, knowing that I would not be able to watch “Glee” with V on Tues­days, knit with Kate or do countless other daily activities with all the other sisters I lived and worked with was one of the saddest goodbyes I have ever experienced. Pulling away from that house for the last time on July 15 brought tears to my eyes. 
I was terrified to spend my summer in Kansas City. But working at Cristo Rey was one of the most fulfilling jobs I have ever had, and I will never forget the summer I lived in a con­vent. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at       modonne5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Scene Writer 


The real points for the protesters 
The Occupy Wall Street protests start­ed out as a small movement, but have since grown into an international phe­nomenon. This has been fueled by public anger over slow economic growth in developed countries, 
a highly dispropor- William Miller  
tional distribution of  
wealth and contin- Guest  
ued frustration with  Columnist  
the role that money  

plays in determining politics. 
Many of these frustrations are justi­fied. It is true that big banks received a bailout that kept them in business while Main Street suffered. It is true that wealth is disproportionately concen­trated in the hands of a few wealthy individuals. And it is true that money greases the wheels of power in ways that are both unfair and undemocratic. 
Unfortunately, the Occupy Wall Street protesters have not yet found a cohesive or logical set of policy prescriptions. I personally am a moderate conservative, yet I sympathize with the sentiment of these protests. This is my attempt to give the protesters a message that could actually lead to constructive changes in our society. 
First, the protesters need to remem­ber that the American Dream is founded on the idea that it’s okay to become wealthy if you are smart and will­ing to work hard. Many people in the “One percent,” such as Bill Gates, came from modest backgrounds to acquire enormous wealth. Did he deserve it? Of course he did. 
Mr. Gates revolutionized the world, and our capitalist system rewards peo­ple whose brilliance can create innova­tions like the personal computer. What’s more, taxing Mr. Gates at a higher rate would not significantly alter the distri­bution of wealth in this country. 
Would it have some impact? Yes. Would that impact be large enough to undo the fact that a large amount of wealth is concentrated in the hands of a 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

few people? No. 
That is, of course, unless we taxed the wealthy at a punitively high rate, which seems incongruous with the liberal economic system that has made America so successful. What’s more, the wealthy already pay a majority of all taxes in our country, while just around half of all Americans pay no income tax. Raising taxes on the rich is an ineffective and potentially unfair way to solve the prob­lems facing our nation. 
Second, it is more productive to focus on building up from the bottom rather than tearing down from the top. While it is debatable whether or not income growth has stagnated over the last 20 years or so (I’ve read studies with wildly different conclusions on this point), it is true that workers need to acquire new and better skills to compete in a global economy. 
The most effective way to do this is through educational reform, which should focus on opening up school choice for parents and rewarding excellent teachers through some form of merit-based system. The solution is not neces­sarily more money — per-pupil spending has doubled in the last 40 years, yet high school graduation rates have stubbornly remained stuck at 40 percent — but the political will to reform a system that consistently fails many students. 
What’s more, tax reform has to be part of this story. U.S. corporations currently pay a 35 percent tax on their earnings, which, coupled with state taxes, means that U.S. companies pay the highest taxes in the developed world. What’s more, the tax system is so riddled with loopholes that some companies end up paying almost no taxes, while others are stuck paying obscenely high rates. 
Closing loopholes while lowering the overall tax rate would help stimulate the economy while simultaneously raising more revenue. This would help close our budget deficit while also spurring more companies to base their operations in the U.S., thus bringing in the type of white collar jobs that contribute to a strong and prosperous middle class. 
Finally, the Occupy Wall Street pro­testers should put together a set of seri­ous proposals detailing how they would like to regulate the financial sector. 
It is on this issue that I am most skeptical. Financial services is one of the things that the U.S. does best, and more regulations could force this profit­able industry to begin moving overseas. However, I am willing to listen to sug­gestions, and am open to persuasion, so long as the proposals are detailed and aimed to reduce economy-wide risk rather than punish success. 
Few would argue that we have reached the perfect equilibrium of regu­lation. Some would say we need more, others less, but until clear lines have been drawn in the debate it is impossible to determine where we stand. 
I have no doubt that the Occupy Wall Street movement will continue to spread in the near future. The sentiment behind it is too strong, and the slogan of “end­ing corporate greed” is too catchy for anything else to happen. Unfortunately, sentiment and slogans make great poli­tics and terrible policy. As a result, the movement is destined to flounder unless it can make a serious contribution to the ongoing discussion about our country’s future. 
The steps I have outlined above, including my suggested policies, would go a long way towards legitimizing the movement. The best way to grow our country is not by tearing down those who have succeeded, but by helping even more people succeed. Only time will tell whether we focus on the former or the latter. 
William Miller is a freshman. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Don’t think there are no crocodiles because the water is calm.” 
Malayan proverb 



WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite kind of candy? 
Reese’s peanut butter cup Milky Way M&M’s Twizzlers 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday 

ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



Greece is the word 
What do you get when you lock the leaders of the EU into a conference room and tell them they can’t come out until they have a comprehen­sive plan to save the continent from impending financial doom? 
A haircut. 
Wait — a haircut? Did the eurozone leaders propose a mass trip to bar­bershops across the continent as a way to stimulate their economies? 
No, this is a dif­ferent kind of hair­cut, but it’s just as slick as John Travol­ta’s hair in Grease. 
The latest solution to avoid a Greek debt default is a 50 percent haircut on Greek bonds, which means that the private bondholders can trade in their old battered bonds for shiny new ones worth half the value. The proposal is expected to reduce Greece’s debt lev­els to 120 percent of GDP by 2020 (it’s 

Grace Concelman 
Opinions and Futures 
currently greater than 160 percent). That’s still an uncomfortably high level of debt, but for now it avoids a default. 
A 50 percent reduction in the value of bonds isn’t a default? No, it very intentionally is not. The drafters of the plan stuck a tricky little word in front of the bond exchange language: voluntary. Some lawyers have decided that since the haircut is “voluntary” it is not technically a default. So, no one is forcing the bondholders to accept the exchange proposal and cut their holdings in half, but somehow leaders expect participation to be very high. 
We had better hope participation is high and the plan works as expected. This is the third “comprehensive” plan this year to prevent a Greek default, so the track record is not so good. 
Greece itself is not the problem; countries do occasionally default. The problem is that Greece is deeply connected via the Euro to a whole lot of other struggling countries. Like a group of friends trying to stay on their football bench while dancing an Irish jig, if one goes down, the whole sec­tion goes down along with them. 

If Greece tips the balance, Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Spain and now even France could go down along with it, or at least their financial systems could be mired in a crisis worse than 2008. 
So, the Euro complicates the whole situation. The ECB, keeper of the Euros, has the power to print money to ease the pain, but printing money causes inflation and Europeans are deathly afraid of inflation. Instead, in May 2010, the ECB decided to create a bailout fund to throw money into the Adriatic. The European Financial Sta­bility Fund (EFSF) lends financial as­sistance to struggling countries using money collected from other eurozone states. 
But, after an earlier bailout of Greece and subsequent bailouts of Portugal and Ireland, there isn’t enough money left in the EFSF, so the other part of the latest solution is to leverage the EFSF. 
Leverage in finance can take a lot of different forms, but essentially it is borrowing in order to increase returns. The EFSF would raise money by selling insurance to bondhold­ers against default on countries like Spain and Italy that would hopefully never be paid out. This seems ab­surdly cyclical considering that over-leverage played a role in creating the whole mess. Now they want to use it to get out? 
Shifting the debt around and likely slapping on a AAA rating to make it look prettier doesn’t seem like a solu­tion, but then again, neither does a default. 
It’s like the end of Grease when Olivia Newton John can either sew herself into leather pants or risk los­ing John Travolta forever. Neither is a great option, but of course she picks the man and together they ride hap­pily off into the sunset in a flying car. 
Hopefully the leather pants will have the same effect for the EFSF. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Better things Kim could have done with $12 million 
Dear The Observer, 
Today, when my friend told me that Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries were getting divorced after only 72 days of marriage, I laughed on the floor of my dorm room in Breen-Phillips Hall for a solid minute and a half. Then, when she told me that the wedding festivities, including the engagement ring, cost a collective $12 mil­lion, I got angry. We started crunching numbers, and the following is a list we compiled, entitled “Better Things Kim Could Have Done With $12 Million — Notre Dame Edition:” 
48 million: Quarter Dogs from the Huddle Six million: Candles at The Grotto ($2 suggested dona­
tion to light) Six million: Huddle student meal tickets 800,000: The Shirts 315,789: Pairs of Toms (then double it because the 
company donates a pair for every pair purchased) 57,142: Sets of student football tickets 
56: Full four-year tuitions paid to the University (Now for the Kickers:) 24 million: People protected from Neglected Tropical 
Diseases for one year 
1.2 million: Families who could receive clean water for 10 years through the Totter for Water campaign 
48,000: Children who could have received a year of education and food at The Hopeful School in Uganda through Fields of Growth International 
19: Lifetime treatments for HIV (valued at $618,900 per 
person) Help a brother out, Kim. Sincerely, 
Lauren Morisseau 
freshman Breen-Phillips Hall 
Dylan Parent 
freshman Breen-Phillips Hall Oct. 31 



Asian Allure on the horizon 
I left my family 8,500 miles away in Hyder­abad, India. But I’ve found a whole new family here at Notre Dame. Right from international orientation, where I met my some of my best friends, to today, heading to rehearsal for Asian Allure, the time I’ve spent so far has been scary, interesting and thoroughly enjoy­able. As an international student, the Asian American Association was one of the first few places I was introduced to other Asian stu­dents, both from abroad and from the United States. 
While I spend a lot of time doing a variety of things around campus, I still always look for­ward to quality time with the people who are a part of AAA. It is an incredible support sys­tem; while it offers the opportunity of comfort and familiar surroundings, it also encourages all-around engagement on campus and it has allowed me to learn so much. Not only have I been exposed to other Asian cultures and the culture in America, but I have also been able to further explore my own culture, and I love talking to people who are interested in learn­ing more about Indian music, movies and food (not the dining hall version). 
Asian Allure is the perfect platform for all the wonderful cultures to come together in a beautiful performance of diversity and inte­gration. I look forward to it every year and it is one of my favorite weekends. I want to be a part of all the shows, but I think this semester taking part in three shows with five costume changes is more than I can handle. It’s great for the people involved to showcase their talent, and it’s a fantastic night for the rest of campus to come watch a spectacular series of events. Everyone puts in so much effort, and the result is an amazing display of color, joy and time­lessness. Buy your ticket as soon as possible, and don’t forget to clap and cheer really loudly! Hope to see you there, either on Friday at 7:30 
p.m. or Saturday at 4 p.m. Thanks! Always, 
Nikita Taniparti 
sophomore Badin Hall Oct. 30 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 1, 2011 



Wading through the excessive amount of horrible films on Instant Netflix can be daunting for any subscriber. To 
ease the process, Scene has graciously provided a list of 
the best Netflix has to offer. 

1. “Breaking Bad” Seasons 1-3 
When low-paid, underappreciated chemistry teacher
Walter White finds out he has terminal cancer, he decides
to produce high quality meth to provide money for hisfamily. Teaming up with his underachieving former student,Walter slowly changes from Mr. Chips to Scarface in this critically acclaimed AMC original series. A wide array ofcharacters from comic to killer, violent action sequences,creative cinematography, great acting, suspensefulstorytelling and the beautiful but dangerous setting of Albuquerque make this show a must-see. Watch seasons 1 through 3 to catch up with the currently airing season four. 

2. “Gossip Girl” Seasons 1-4 
One of the most stylish shows on television is now in your instant queue. Watch the most dramatic teenagerson New York’s Upper East Side as they flirt, fight andflaunt their wealth. It’s the perfect escape from real life,complete with glamorous parties, incredible fashion andbeautiful people. Serena van der Woodsen and her friends Blair, Chuck, Nate and Dan represent something almostimpossible to reach, yet so enjoyable to watch. Catchseasons one through four on Netflix for clothing inspirationand indulge in guilty pleasure excellence. 

3. “Up” 
Although it may bring tears to your eyes at parts,“Up” will also warm your heart and bring a smile to your face.  This animated film follows the adventures of Carl Fredricksen, a man who loses the beloved wife he hadplanned on taking grand explorations with.  When he finally begins his journey, a young boy named Russellsurprisingly tags along. At first Carl is a crotchety old man,but he grows to appreciate Russell. “Up” is the touchingstory of friendship, love and perseverance in achievingyour dreams. 

4. “Searching for Bobby Fischer” 
Chess never seemed more interesting than in director
Steve Zaillian’s critically-acclaimed film about a chess 
prodigy who may or may not follow in the footsteps of
chess’s most enigmatic and energizing master, BobbyFischer. Based on a true story, the movie explores what
it is like growing up with an incredible gift and what itmeans to win. The all-star cast includes Joe Mantegna and
Ben Kingsley. With a 100 percent fresh rating on Rotten
Tomatoes, you know this movie is the worth the time. 

5. “Sherlock” 
Sherlock Holmes has appeared in many different formsthroughout his 100+ year history. He has worn that famous deer hunter cap, been played by Iron Man and has evenbeen featured as a mouse. However, you’ve never seenhim quite like this before. 
“Sherlock,” produced by the BBC and presented inAmerica by PBS, comes from the geniuses behind thecult British show “Doctor Who” and features the man who played Bilbo Baggins as Sherlock’s (BenedictCumberbatch) sidekick Watson (Martin Freeman). Thestory now takes place in modern London and Sherlock isa genius who uses modern technology along with his ownwits to solve crimes. Check it out on Netflix in preparationfor the second mini-series, premiering early next year. 

Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 



By CLAIRE STEPHENS Bruno Dumont’s study of faith and Scene Writer religious fervor follows a devout novice who is expelled from a nunnery and re-In addition to music, theater, dance turns to the secular world. She meets a and lectures, the DeBartolo Perform-rebellious Arab teenager and his older 
ing Arts Center (DPAC) also offers stu­dents the chance to watch a variety of films. Check out the movies playing this week in the Browning Cinema. 
Tuesday, Nov. 1 
“Silent Shakespeare: An evening with Thanhouser Films” 
7:30 p.m., Free 
Thanhouser Company was a pioneer­ing film studio during the silent film era.  Thanks to the efforts of archivist Ned Thanhouser, grandson of the com­pany’s founders, many of their films have been preserved for the benefit of future generations.  This pro-gram 
of three short films pro­duced by Thanous­er showcases the 
compa ­brother and becomes fascinated by their intense theological debates and support of jihad. Dumont’s powerful film profoundly explores the relentless pursuit of faith in both Christianity and Islam and what drives certain be­lievers to acts of extreme violence. Not rated, 105 minutes, French with Eng­lish subtitles. 
Friday, Nov. 4 
“Another Earth” (2011) 
6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., $3 
Rhonda Williams (Brit Marling), a bright young woman accepted into MIT’s astrophysics program, aspires to explore the cosmos. John Burroughs (William Mapother; ND ‘87), a brilliant composer, has just reached the pin­nacle of his profession and is about to have a second child. On the eve of the discovery of a duplicate earth, tragedy strikes and the lives of these strangers become irrevocably intertwined. This Sundance winner directed by Mike Ca-hill offers an unusual hybrid of indie drama and science fiction. Actor and Notre Dame alumnus William Mapo­ther is scheduled to be present.  Rated PG-13, 92 minutes. 
ny’s achieve­

ment of being the f i r s t American film producer with a background in legitimate the­atre to bring Shakespeare to the silent screen. The series includes “The Win­ter’s Tale” (1910), “Cymbeline” (1913) and “King Lear” (1917) and will be introduced by Ned Thanhouser, Presi­dent of Thanhouser Company Film Preservation, Inc. Not rated, 71 min­utes total. 
Wednesday, Nov. 2 
“Tower Heist” (2011) 
9:15 p.m., Free, Tickets to be distrib­uted beginning at 8:15 
Take advantage of the chance to see Ben Still­er and Eddie Murphy’s new film before it is released in theaters. In Brett Ratners’s new film, a group of hard working guys find out they’ve fallen victim to a 
Saturday, Nov. 5 
“Film Socialisme” (2010) 
6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., $3 
Legendary director Jean-Luc Go­dard returns to the screen with “Film Socialisme,” a magisterial film on the decline of European Civilization. As a garish cruise ship travels the Medi­terranean (with Patti Smith among its guests), Godard produces a vibrant col­lage of philosophical quotes, historical revelations and pure cinematographic beauty. Not rated, 101 minutes, French with English subtitles. 
“Superbad” (2007) 12:00 a.m., $3 Part of the Midnight Mov­
ies series, Seth (Jonah Hill) and Evan (Michael Cera) plan one last night of fun before leaving for college in “Super-bad.” Will they win 


wealthy business the hearts of their 
man’s Ponzi scheme, longtime crushes 
so they conspire to (Emma Stone, Mar-

rob his high-rise residence. tha MacIsaac) with a 
get a ticket. Rated PG-13, 104 minutes. Vod-ka? Leave it to McLovin’. Rated R, 113 minutes. 
Thursday, Nov. 3 
“Hadewijch” (2009) Contact Claire Stephens at              6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., $3 cstephe4@nd.edu
 LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 1, 2011 




SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Not yet Tebow Time 
You can’t run. You can’t hide. No, it’s not some Halloween mon­ster, but it is pretty scary and it’s coming for you. 
It’s Tebowmania. 
Broncos quarterback Tim Tebow is larger than life and he’s invading our homes, but it’s not exactly his fault. 
You see, Tebow was a very good mobile quarterback in college at Florida, where his agile frame and glisten­ing smile made him beloved by fans everywhere. He led the Gators to two national championships and became the youngest player ever to win the Heisman in the process. 
Tebow was drafted by the Broncos with the 25th overall pick last year and has probably been the most celebrated backup in the NFL since then. But the hype surrounding Tebow far ex­ceeds what he does on the field. 
And that’s because Tebow is Christian. Not just Christian, but really, really Christian. Like do­ing mission trips in the offsea­son, filming pro-life Super Bowl ads and converting convicts in his spare time. He is the son of Baptist missionaries and was born at a mission in the Philip­pines. 
All this only contributed to the legend of Tebow. It’s the reason millions of people looked up the bible verses he wore on his eye black after his games in college, and it’s the reason for the media circus that accompanied his first real chance in the NFL. 
The Tebow Experiment began in full three weeks ago, when the 1-5 Broncos got fed up with Kyle Orton’s lackluster play (Chi­cagoans know the feeling). Down 19 to the Chargers in the second half, Tebow entered the game in relief and quickly passed for one touchdown and rushed for an­other. The comeback effort came up short, but it was all Tebow needed to convert the Mile High masses, and mass media, too. 
Tebow became an omnipres­ent topic on ESPN, which was only fueled by the announce­ment that he would start the next week at Miami. Upon that news breaking, the winless Dol­phins sold 75,000 tickets in one day and the show was on. Tebow stumbled through an absolutely atrocious first three quarters, and the Broncos fell behind the lowly Dolphins, 15-0. But Timmy Terrific rallied back in the last three minutes to tie the game, and the Broncos escaped embar­rassment with an 18-15 win in overtime. 

Instead of being criticized for almost losing to arguably the worst team in the league, Tebowmania swept the nation. A sports fan couldn’t escape the headlines, be they in print, on TV or online: “Tebow Time,” “Is Tebow the Real Deal?” or “The Second Coming.” For an entire week, there was one top story: Tim Tebow. 
But it didn’t stop there. On Sunday, the Broncos were embarrassed by the new-look Lions in a game in which Tebow singlehandedly created two touchdowns — for Detroit. The media circus hasn’t been called off though; it’s just changed its tune. “What’s wrong with Tim Tebow?” and “Too much hype, too soon?” are now the ques­tions du jour. 
For those trying to hide from Tebowmania, there is no hope. Tebowing, or posing in kneeled prayer in unusual places, is the next Internet fad. Tebow’s jersey was one of the top five highest-selling last year. Did you know that Tebow will start next week in Oakland? (If not, you haven’t been on ESPN.com in days.) 
It appears that Tebowthon will march on for the time being, and I’m not alone in starting to get fed up with it. However, you have to feel for the young quarter­back. I admire that he uses his position to raise awareness for something he cares about and he seems, by all accounts, like a great guy. The problem is, he’s not a great football player and his game just doesn’t translate well in the pros. 
So Tim, I wish you the best, but for now we need you to fade from the public eye. We simply can’t take it anymore. Maybe you can go on a mission trip or take a leave of absence or request a benching after the way you played last week. Tebowmania can’t go on like this forever. 
You’ve held the spotlight for a while now-it’s time to give it to the next guy. 
Besides, the Broncos have another handsome, formerly successful backup quarterback. He’s been long-forgotten for a while now and could use the help of a Good Samaritan like yourself. 
Fire up the bandwagon, folks, and dust off those old No. 10 jerseys. 
It’s BradyQuinnapalooza! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Although it didn’t win a 

Knott 
game this season, Morrissey 

is optimistic about the future, continued from page 12 as it will return many of its players. up [holes], which made “We have a young squad, so 
our  jobs  we will have  
easier.”  a lot of expe- 
L ook i ng  rience  next  
toward the p l a y o f f s , the Jug­gerk not t s  “We have a young squad, so we will have a lot of experience next year.”  year,” Oloriz said. “One player we will miss is  
see no need  our  [senior]  
to  change  Alex Oloriz  kicker  Rory  
their style  Morrissey junior  Carroll.”  

of play. 
“We’ll stick with our game plan,” senior captain Dan Shaffer said. “We’ll just stay with what we’ve been doing.” 
For Morrissey (0-4), the season finale was a chance to spoil Knott’s postseason aspirations. The Manor, despite being undermanned, kept the game close thanks to an opportunistic defense that forced and recovered three fumbles. 
“We were in the game,” junior captain Alex Oloriz said. “We just got [ex­hausted] at the end.” 
Morrissey’s season is over, while Knott ad­
vances to the first round of the playoffs against Dillon next Sunday. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
O’Neill 12, Keough 6 

By NICK BOYLE Sports Writer 
O’Neill dominated both sides of the ball Sunday as the Mob pulled out a 12-6 victory over West Quad rival Keough. 
The Mob (1-3) was led by a defense which forced two turnovers and had multiple fourth down stops, while the offense was able to move the ball consistently behind the strong play of senior quar­terback Mike Wilbur, who threw for 161 yards and two touchdowns. 
“All season we’ve known that we have a lot of talent at wide receiver, and they were able to make some great plays on the ball today and really help me out,” Wilbur said. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle@nd.edu 
Fisher 8, Zahm 0 


Observer Staff Report 
Fisher was awarded the 8-0 win due to forfeit, as Zahm did not have enough players show up to participate. In ac­cordance with the RecSports rules, the winning team in a forfeit receives eight points and the losing team receives zero. The Green Wave’s re­cord rose to 2-2 and Zahm’s fell to 0-4. Neither team qualified for the playoffs. 
MLB 




La Russa retires after championship 


Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Tony La Russa waited until after the championship parade and then called a team meeting with his players. 
“We didn’t know what to expect,” said pitcher Chris Carpenter, who won Game 7 of the World Series against Texas on Friday night. “I think we all figured it was just going to be like, ‘Tha­taway guys. Great year. Way to battle!’ Instead, he dropped that on us. I think everybody was caught off-guard.” 
And with that, the 67-year-old La Russa said goodbye to baseball and became the first manager to retire immediately after leading his team to a Series title — the third of his ca­reer. 
“I think this just feels like it’s time to end it,” he said Monday. “When I look in the mirror, I know I’d come back for the wrong reasons, and I didn’t want to do that.” 
La Russa said he told gen­eral manager John Moze­liak of his decision in Au­gust — before the Cards rallied from a 10½-game deficit in the NL wild-card race to upset Philadelphia and Milwaukee in the playoffs. 

They won the thrilling sev­en-game Series after twice coming within a strike of elim­ination in Game 6. 
“I tip my hat to him. He’s had a great career. What a way to go out,” Washington Nationals manager Davey Johnson said. 
The player meeting was short and emotional. 
“Some grown men cried,” La Russa said, joking that, “I kind of liked that because they made me cry a few times. 
La Russa won the World Se­ries with Oakland in 1989, and St. Louis in 1996 and this year, joining Sparky Anderson as the only manager to win with clubs in both leagues. 
During 33 seasons with the Chicago White Sox (1979-86), Oakland (1986-95) and St. Louis (1996-11), La Russa com­piled a 2,728-2,365 regular-season record. He trails only Connie Mack (3,731) and John McGraw (2,763) for wins. And his 70 postseason victories are behind only Joe Torre’s 84. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  
For more information, visit ND’s 
website at:  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Mr. Deeds Quotes 
Longfellow Deeds: Crazy Eyes. 
Crazy Eyes: Hey, Deeds. 
Longfellow Deeds: How you doin’, pal? I got your pizza for you, just 
the way you like it. 
Crazy Eyes: Oh, yes. French Fries and Oreos, you know me all too well, Deeds. 
Chuck Cedar: That guy will have a million dollars and that photo will be all over the news in less than an hour. 
Longfellow Deeds: He deserved it with the James Bond moves he 
just pulled. 
Chuck Cedar: He deserves to have 
his throat cut, filthy spy. 

Billy Madison quotes 
Veronica Vaughn: So what’s it like, 
being back in school? 
Billy Madison: I don’t know. I kinda feel like an idiot sometimes. 
Although I am an idiot, so it kinda 
works out. 
3rd Grader: How’s high school Billy? 
Billy Madison: High school is great. I mean I’m learning a lot. And all the kids are treating me very nice. It’s great. 
3rd Grader: Gee, I can’t wait till I 
get to “hike” school. 
Billy Madison: Don’t you say that. Don’t you ever say that. Stay here. Stay here as long as you can. For 
the love of God, cherish it. You 
have to cherish it. 
Kid: Mortal Kombat, on Sega Genesis, is the best video game 
ever. 
Billy Madison: I disagree, it’s a very good game, but I think Donkey 
Kong is the best game ever. 
Kid: Donkey Kong sucks. 
Billy Madison: You know something? YOU SUCK! 

Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 

Badin 
continued from page 13 
time, Breen-Phillips looked as if it would win its first game of the season. Badin pulled out a late victory in the end though, with an impressive performance from junior running back Ashley Okonta. 
Breen-Phillips (0-6) jumped out to an early first-half lead with two touchdowns from soph­omore quarterback Molly Toner. 
The lead was not enough, how­ever, as Badin (2-4) came storm­ing back with two touchdowns from Okonta to take the lead 15­14 with five minutes remaining in the second half. 
Breen-Phillips quickly coun­tered with a 70-yard touchdown run from Toner.  After a success­ful two-point conversion, the Babes went up 22-15 with only two minutes remaining. 
Trailing by one touchdown, Badin marched the ball down the field with key passes to se­nior receiver Ryan Cooney and eventually scored on a 5-yard touchdown run by senior quar­terback Carli Fernandez.  Down by one, Badin successfully com­pleted a two-point conversion to win the game. 
“We finally got our stuff to­gether and made it happen,” Okonta said.  “We actually pro­duced the results that were ex­pected, which was winning.” 
The Babes, meanwhile, were disappointed they could not hold on to win the game, Toner said. 
Toner, who amassed 222 yards of total offense, did identify a bright spot for Breen-Phillips though. 
“We had a rough season, but I felt this game was our full poten­tial,” Toner said. 
The season is over for both the Babes and Bullfrogs. While the seniors of Badin and Breen-Phil­lips will move on, both Toner and Okonta said they are looking for­ward to getting a few more wins next season. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh 13, Howard 0 


By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
Cavanaugh will enter the playoffs as the undefeated No. 1 seed after earning a shutout win against defending-champi­on Howard in a grueling 13-0 match. Facing tough defenses and weather conditions, each team struggled to move the ball down the field on a consistent basis. 
Cavanaugh (6-0) earned a quick score on its first drive with a 40-yard passing play from se­nior quarterback Rebecca Cink to senior receiver Brittni Alex­ander. After the score, neither team could capitalize on drives into the opposing team’s side of the field. 
Late into the second half, Howard (2-4) tried to utilize short passes to move the chains for a comeback. But the Ducks failed to convert on a fourth­and-short, and Cink sealed the win by throwing another touch­down pass to give the Chaos a 13-0 victory. 
“It’s great to finish undefeat­ed, even though things got a little difficult with the rain and weather,” Cavanaugh senior cap­tain Maggie Fahrenbach said. 
Despite the undefeated sea­son, the Chaos hope to continue improving to prepare for post­season uncertainty. 
“In the playoffs, everything changes with everyone starting without a record,” Fahrenbach said. “We just need to stay fo­cused and improve on the de­fense we just implemented.” 
The Howard passing game ran into difficulties from Cavana­ugh’s pressure on the quarter­back. 
“It was a defensive battle and we played as hard as we could,” Howard junior quarterback Katharine Mack. “We’ve fought hard and we always played as a unit.” 
In the first round of the play­offs No.1 Cavanaugh will play No. 8 Lyons, while No. 7 Howard will take on undefeated No. 2 Ryan. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 
Walsh 7, Lewis 6 



By JONATHON WARREN 
Sports Writer 
In a penalty-filled, defensive struggle, Walsh upset Lewis 7-6 to eliminate the Chicks from playoff contention. Walsh’s de­fense was too strong for Lewis, who tied their lowest offensive point total of the season. 
“The defense was so crucial,” Walsh junior quarterback Kat Leach said. “They really stepped up and were the heart of the team today.” 
Junior defender Alex Meyer and sophomore defender Anna Carmack each recorded two sacks for the Wild. Walsh (1-4-1) scored in the first half on an 11­yard pass from Leach to fresh­man receiver Maggie Fisher. The converted extra point was enough to secure the Walsh’s first win of the season. 


“We wanted to prove that you can never count Walsh out,” Leach said. “We threw a wrench in the playoffs, and now we’re just looking forward to next year.” 
Lewis (2-4) struggled to gain offensive momentum, partly due to penalties. Despite commit­ting eight penalties, the Chicks pulled within one point of Walsh in the second half with a 33-yard touchdown pass from junior quarterback Connaught Blood to sophomore receiver Colleen Haller. A failed extra point, how­ever, kept Walsh in the lead. 
“I think we’re all appalled at the penalties,” Blood said. “We’re a little in shock that we had to wait so long between plays and couldn’t gain momen­tum because of it.” 
Blood played with an injured ankle and was called for flag-guarding penalties three times, but still managed to rack up 92 rushing yards. 
“It was really hard to get in a good rhythm,” Blood said. “I didn’t play as smart as I could have, and it was hard for me to be as mobile as I normally am because of my ankle.” 
With the season over for both teams, Walsh and Lewis will look to rebuild for next year’s campaign. 

Contact Jonathon Warren at Jwarren3@nd.edu 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, November 1, 2011 





Keenan stays perfect with win over Stanford 
Sorin ready for title defense after clobbering St. Edward’s; Knott clinches playoff berth with win over Morrissey 
By BRENDAN BELL to a 24-yard field goal and put ers’ season came to an end Sports writer the Highlanders ahead with with the loss, in which the of­
10 minutes left in the game. fense only brought in 34 total 

In the final game of the Siegfried (4-0) marched right yards. But junior coach Lex regular season, Keenan beat down the field with less than Dennis took a lot away from Stanford 19-7 in the Battle for two minutes left and scored this game and the whole sea-the Chapel. The Knights (4-the game-winning touchdown son. 
0) continued on a 3-yard “We have a very young team their unde-run by junior consisting of only four se­feated season running back niors,” Dennis said. “We are by beating David Whit-hopeful for next year with the rival Grif-more. Whit-more veteran guys and I am fins (2-2). more rushed pleased with our season.” 
“We have a very young 
“We told for a total of The Highlanders’ season 
team consisting of only 
o u r s e l ve s 64 yards, in-is concluded, while the Ram-
four seniors. We are 
coming into cluding 33 blers will look to a first round 
hopeful for next year 
this game yards on the matchup next week in the 
with more veteran 
that it would last drive playoffs as the No. 1 seed, be the most guys and I am pleased with the win-when they face Stanford. physical with our season.” ning touch-game that down. Contact Andrew Cardoza at the game though. Freshman Knott 13, Morrissey 0 we will play Whitmore acardoza@nd.edu cornerback Nick MacDonald 
Lex Dennis 
all year,” and the Ram-helped hold St. Edward’s (2-2) 
Duncan coach 
Keenan ju-blers knew Sorin 26, St. Edward’s 0 multiple times throughout the By MIKE MONACO nior quarter-they escaped game. Sorin also found support Sports Writer back Andrew a close one. in sophomore defensive end Ty-McDonough “We played By STEPHANIE BANTA ler Nutter. In a necessary win to ensure said. “It’s a too relaxed in Sports Writer Though the Otters were in a spot in the playoffs, Knott rivalry game the beginning a joking mood after the game, withstood Morrissey’s best ef­and they were playing for of the game,” Whitmore said. Sorin proved too great of a they are already focusing on forts and came away with a vi-their season.” “They had more heart and force for St. Edward’s on Sun-the upcoming playoffs. tal 13-0 victory that clinched a 
Keenan was led by Mc-soul. Yet, the sense of urgency day afternoon and defeated “This is a perfect way for us postseason berth. Donough, who totaled two on the last drive gave us just the Gentlemen 26-0. to start our playoff run,” Rob-After almost two quarters touchdowns, 100 yards pass-what we needed to win.” “This was the first game inson said. “We are striving for of scoreless football, Knott (3­ing and 50 yards rushing. In The offensive line was key where we were able to play a back-to-back championship 1) got the ball in the red zone the first quarter, McDonough for the Ram-s t r o n g l y and this is the way to start it.” after junior defensive back connected with junior receiver blers. Their through all The Gentlemen’s spirits were Lewis DeLosa returned an in-Nate Carr on a fade route for a core, which four quar-nothing short of energetic as terception for 39 yards. From touchdown.  In the next series, consists of ters,” Sorin well, even with the loss. there, senior running back senior linebacker Nick Burley four sopho-junior Ryan “We’re feeling good,” St. Ryan Traudt took a counter stripped the ball for a fumble mores and R o b i n s o n Edward’s senior Juan Mejia and scampered 16 yards into 
“This was the first game 

and ran it in for a defensive one junior, said. “[St. Ed-said. “I really feel we whipped the end zone for a touchdown. 
where we were able to 

touchdown. knew they ward’s] tried them.” Traudt found the end zone 
“Our entire defensive line had to play play strongly through to knock us St. Edward’s held a strong again late in the fourth quar­played unbelievable,” Mc-well down all four quarters.” out of this defensive line, making sev-ter on a 14-yard run. In all, Donough said. “Our two de-the stretch game, but we eral hard hits in the second the Juggerknotts featured a fensive ends, [juniors] Tyler to keep the held it togeth-half, preventing many touch-balanced running game with 
Ryan Robinson 

Gregory and Kevin Walsh, had R a m b l e r s ’ er well.” down opportunities and caus-two quarterbacks and two 
Sorin junior 

great games.” season in The Otters ing great excitement along the running backs and rushed for 
For Stanford, the result left perfection. (3-0-1) pow-sidelines of the Gentlemen. 142 yards. the Griffins unsure immedi-“We want-ered through The loss knocked St. Ed-“Fortunately, we have an ately after the game if they ed to win and the game ward’s out of the playoffs, enormous offensive line,” had earned a playoff berth. the young with 169 while Sorin prepares for a first Traudt said. “I feel that we 
“It comes down to points al-guys just rushing yards round matchup with Carroll on should have put a lot more lowed,” junior captain Eric stepped up for us today,” ju-and also had an interception Sunday. points on the board because Zeltwanger said. “If we make nior offensive lineman Anto-and 55-yard touchdown by se-our offensive line was blowing it, I think there were a lot of nio Renteria said. nior Brett Leahy. Leahy was Contact Stephanie Banta at good signs from today’s game.” Meanwhile, the Highland-not the only powerhouse of sbanta01@nd.edu see KNOTT/page 10 
The Griffins gained an early lead in the first quarter with a touchdown pass from fresh­man quarterback Charlie Fiessinger, but couldn’t hold on. 
“Our defense played pretty well and we’re getting tough­er,” Zeltwanger said.  “Our of­fense is getting better every game.” 
After all games were com­pleted, Stanford found out they made the playoffs at the No. 8 seed, the last team in the playoff field. 
Keenan will prepare for its first round playoff matchup against Alumni next Sunday, while Stanford is set to face No. 1 seed Siegfried. 
Contact Brendan Bell at  bbell2@nd.edu 
Siegfried 6, Duncan 3 

By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
The game between Sieg­fried and Duncan was one of strong defensive performanc­es as each team combined for a total of 194 yards from scrimmage. Both teams held each other scoreless until the fourth quarter, when Siegfried ultimately prevailed 6-3. 
Duncan (1-3) capitalized on a fumble that eventually led 




Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
tive group.” 



Joyce 

Senior midfielders Katelyn Tondo-Steele and Taylor Paton continued from page 16 have been consistently strong throughout the season. The an improvement from last sea-Belles will also look to freshmen son, when they put up a 4-13-2 goaltenders Chanler Rosenbaum record. It will be the final game and Natalie Warner, who both 
for  the  held strong  
five Saint Mary’s se­niors, and Joyce said  “I know our seniors will be on their game, and they’ll leave it all on the field for  presences on the field in their first c ol leg iat e  
he is look­ing forward to seeing  their last game. They are a competitive group.”  season. T h e Belles will  
the girls end their season on a  Michael Joyce Belles Coach  takeHopelege   on  Col-at 3  
good note.  p.m.  at  
“I  know  home  in  

our seniors will be on their their final game of the season. game, and they’ll leave it all on the field for their last game,” Contact Katie Heit at Joyce said. “They are a competi-kheit@nd.edu 

Grady 
continued from page 16 
experiences, both the good and the bad. This year, we’ve had a ton of guys to step up and take those senior lead­ership spots.” 
While the upperclassmen have helped Grady become a better runner, it was the underclassmen that helped woo him to Notre Dame. 
“I really liked the guys on the team, great academics, pretty much a good combi­nation of everything,” Grady said. “I knew some of the other freshmen coming in. I really liked those guys.” 
With the Big East race behind the team, the Irish will try to finish the season strong at nationals. 


“The biggest thing is to make it to nationals,” Grady said. “I think we’re in a decent position now. We need to run well in a few weeks. After that, it’ll just be how good we do at nation­als.” 
Notre Dame will compete in the Great Lakes Regional in To­ledo, Ohio on Nov. 12. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 



Ryan overpowers McGlinn to finish undefeated 
Welsh Family scrapes past Lyons; Farley dominates PW with stifling defense; Badin comes back against BP 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
In a high-powered offensive battle, Ryan outscored McGlinn 25-19, capping off an undefeated regular season and securing the No. 2 seed in next week’s playoffs. 
Ryan’s offense showed great efficiency from the onset, as the Wildcats (6-0) scored on their first possession when junior quarterback Maya Pillai found senior receiver Grace Johnson on a 13-yard touchdown pass. Af­ter McGlinn senior quarterback Lauren Miller scrambled for a touchdown to tie the game, the Wildcats responded by march­ing down the field for two quick scores. Pillai threw a two-yard touchdown pass to Johnson and senior running back Brianna Curtis scored on a one-yard touchdown run for the Wildcats. 
Pillai found the end zone again with just a few minutes left in the game, this time running the ball herself for a touchdown to seal the Ryan victory. 
“It feels really good to get this win and finish undefeated,” Cur­tis said. “We plan to keep the momentum going and feel really good going into the playoffs.” 
McGlinn (4-2) put forth a strong offensive effort, but was unable to keep up with the pace of Ry­an’s. Miller had great success in throwing the ball deep in the sec­ond half on two scoring plays to freshman receiver Emma Collis with long touchdown passes of 19 yards and 39 yards. 
“We set up the offense with some short passes in the first half and then made the adjust­ment to throw more long passes in the second half,” Miller said. “We missed some opportunities, but it was tough to keep Ryan at bay.” 
No. 2 Ryan will take on No. 7 defending-champion Howard while No. 6 McGlinn will take on No. 3 Farley in Sunday’s quarter­finals. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
Welsh Family 7, Lyons 6 


By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports writer 
In a contest that came down to the wire, Welsh Family topped Lyons 7-6. 
The momentum seemed to be in favor of the Lyonites (3-3) when they scored on a 57-yard touchdown pass from senior quarterback Kat Rodriguez to junior receiver Erica Miller with two minutes left in the game. 
However, the Whirlwinds (4-2) held strong, stopping the two-point-conversion from 10 yards out. Welsh Family then ran the clock down to seal the victory. 
“I was just hoping the defense would get that stop,” Welsh Family senior captain and re­ceiver Charlotte Seasly said. “Without that win, we would not have gotten a playoff berth.” 
The Whirlwinds’ early sec­ond half touchdown came on a 15-yard pass from junior quar­terback Vicky Moreno to se­nior wide receiver Natalie Bal­dasare, topped off by a 5-yard one-point conversion pass from Moreno to Seasly. 
“Vicky put the ball exactly where it needed to be and that makes my job easy,” Baldasare said. 
Not converting for the two­point-conversion was a huge let down for Lyons, Rodriguez said. 
“It was a hard loss,” Rodri­guez said. “If it happened again, we would still go for the win. We made that gamble going for it and it was tough not to get it.” 
Although it was a hard loss for the Lyonites, they still made the playoffs as the last team in and are going to target specific weaknesses of the teams they have observed over the year. 
“We have played all of the teams now in the playoffs and are preparing for what they can do,” Rodriguez said. “We have to finalize our defensive schemes and add some new plays on offense based on what we’ve seen.” 
The No. 4 Whirlwinds will face No. 5 Pasquerilla West, while No. 8 Lyons will face un­defeated No.1 Cavanaugh in Sunday’s first round of the play­offs. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Farley 24, Pasquerilla West 0 


By JAMES SOUTHARD 
Sports Writer 
Farley’s stifling defenders shut­out the Pasquerilla West offense and moved in on an enviable playoff spot after soundly win­ning 24-0 on a dark, wet Sunday evening. 
Led by senior receiver Kait­lyn Vitale, who accumulated 40 yards of offense on Farley’s sec­ond scoring drive and three in­terceptions from senior defensive back Katie Smith, the Finest (5-1) rode a tide of big plays and defen­sive consistency to a convincing victory. 
“Coming out from the start, our defense shut them down,” se­nior captain Analise Althoff said. 
The win boosted Farley’s play­off position and gave them mo­mentum headed into the post­season. 
“The first series on offense, we marched the ball all the way down the field for a score. We definitely came ready to play,” Althoff said. 
Pasquerilla West (4-2) had its bright moments, but penalties, turnovers and offensive stagnan­cy haunted the team. The Purple Weasels only garnered 25 yards of offense in the second half, and the defense allowed too many Farley trick plays to get the best of them. 
“We’re just looking for consis­tency. We know we can get those big plays and big stops,” senior captain Alison Lindeen said. 
Pasquerilla West is still look­ing to make a deep playoff run, and the team is maintaining a positive outlook. 
“We’re still a good team. We had a lot of new girls come out and play, and we learned a lot this season,” Lindeen said. 
No. 3 Farley will meet No. 6 Mc-Glinn and No. 5 Pasquerilla West will line up against No. 4 Welsh Family to kick off the postseason. 
Contact James Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu 
Badin 23, Breen-Phillips 22 


By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
With a 14-point lead at half 


see BADIN/page 11 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, November 1, 2011 


Seton Hall 
continued from page 16 
Connecticut on Saturday was postponed due to snow on the East Coast, however, Monday’s rescheduled game had to be pushed back again, ultimately to Tuesday. 
“It’s been weird for sure,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “Somehow we always manage to play them. The field was literally underwater our first game and, obviously, the snow­storm was a big snowstorm. It was two fairly freak turns of nature that caused it. Hope­fully, it’s third time lucky.” 
The Irish (8-4-4, 4-3-1 Big East) return to action after dropping a 2-0 decision to No. 25 West Virginia. In the loss, Notre Dame held the Moun­taineers to just two shots on goal while producing five of their own. 
“It was just a bad game,” sophomore forward Harry Shipp said. “We were playing well, won our last three games on the road. Things just didn’t go our way.” 
The season finale against Seton Hall (5-10-2, 1-7-0) will decide Notre Dame’s seed for the upcoming Big East tour­nament. With a win, the Irish 
—
 currently in fourth place in the tight Big East Blue division 

—
 would host Villanova in the first round of the tournament. With a loss, however, Notre Dame will travel to St. John’s. The Irish lost earlier this sea­son to the Red Storm, 2-1. 


“This is a huge game,” Clark said. “If we had played it two weeks ago, it would still be an important game but it has tak­en huge proportions now for a lot of reasons. [A home game] is huge for us because it al­lows the guys to relax and be at home.” 
Shipp, who scored three 


Scorers 
continued from page 16 
per game, respectively. Brey at­tributes the rapid growth of the young players to the experience provided by both Abromitis and Martin. 
“I felt better than I thought I would about how we would move as a unit,” he said. “On the offen­
understanding how to play within our system. I think playing against and watching those veteran guys last year has really helped them. Those guys are going to be key, certainly.” 
Yet the defensive side of the ball concerns Brey, as the Irish lost two of their top three re­bounders, as well as their top shot blockers, in Nash and Scott. 
“I am still trying to figure out who we are going to be de­fensively and how we can play defensively with some of these new guys,” Brey said. “Can we extend a little bit more when At­kins and Grant are on the court goals over the last three matches, is tied with junior forward Ryan Finley for the team lead with five goals each. 
“[I’m] finding better places around the goal,” Shipp said. “Earlier in the season, I was making runs and the ball just didn’t seem to find me. It’s more luck than anything.” 
Notre Dame is unbeaten in their last nine meetings with Seton Hall, holding a 7-0-2 re­cord over that time. Addition­ally, the Pirates have only de­feated the Irish once in South Bend, a 1-0 decision in 2000. Seton Hall, who will not make the Big East tournament, will conclude their season Tuesday. 
The Pirates will enter Alum­ni Stadium after snapping a seven-game losing streak by beating then-No. 3 Connecti­cut, 1-0. The win marked the Pirates’ first victory over a ranked opponent since 2005. Earlier in the season, Seton Hall held then-No. 1 Maryland to a scoreless draw. 
“They’re a very good team,” Clark said. “They handle the ball well. This will be a good challenge. But we’re a good team, too.” 
Seton Hall sophomore for­ward Max Garcia has scored a team-high five goals this sea­son — accounting for nearly a third of the Pirates’ total — while firing 57 of the team’s 206 shots. Freshman midfield­er Damian Bziukiewicz, mean­while, leads the team with four assists. 
“We need to win,” Clark said. “We need to win a couple of games to get an at-large bid in the NCAA [Tournament]. That’s another big, big part of this.” 
Notre Dame and Seton Hall finally finish the regular sea­son with a tilt at noon in Alum­ni Stadium today. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
because that is some speed that we really haven’t had [before]? Do we need to play more zone to keep Martin and Abromaitis on the floor for a very long time and make sure they don’t get into foul trouble? That is prob­ably how I am going to evalu­ate us this first week more than anything.” 
Meanwhile St. Xavier — a school of just under 3,000 un­

sive end, given “I am still trying to figure how many new out who we are going to guys we are be defensively with some working in, it of these new guys. Can 
made me feel 

we extend a little bit 
good to see 

more when Atkins and 
that they were 

Grant are on the court 
watching and 

because that is some 
learning. 

“[I’m] very speed that we really impressed haven’t had [before]?” with where Jerian and Mike Brey Alex are in 
Irish Coach 
dergraduate students in Chicago — re­turns all five of their start­ers from last season and is currently ranked No. 24 in the lat­est National Association of Intercolle­giate Athletics (NAIA) Divi­sion I poll af­ter last year’s 19-13 finish. 
Sophomore guard Brad 
Karp leads the Cougars, who lost to perennial NAIA power Robert Morris in the Chicago-land Collegiate Athletic Con­ference (CCAC) semifinals last March. Karp recorded 27 points and 12 rebounds in the loss and was named the 2010-2011 CCAC Rookie of the Year. 
Notre Dame and St. Xavier will kick off the basketball sea­son Tuesday in an exhibition at 
7:30 p.m. in the Purcell Pavil­ion. 


Contact Andrew Gastelum at agestel1@nd.edu 


Scodro 
continued from page 16 
with a +5. The junior fin­ished near the top of the field after the first round, but fell into a tie for 28th in­dividually by the end of the day. 
“Max [Scodro] played very well this morning,” Ku­binski said. “He just missed some full swing shots in the afternoon.” 
Seniors Chris Walker and Tom Usher turned in con­sistent performances of +4 and +6, respectively. Junior Paul McNamara struggled from the outset, carding a 10 over par in the first round, followed by a score +8 in the second. 
“Paul has to learn to relax and play golf, giving up his need to control the environ­ment at all times,” Kubinski said. “He’s a heck of a player when he does.” 
Despite the struggles on Monday, Kubinski said he saw bright spots for the Irish. 
“We played some good stretches today,” Kubinski said. “We just didn’t take advantage of some of the easier holes.” 
With just one round of golf separating the Irish from the offseason, Kubinski said he’d like to see his team im­prove in the standings Tues­day with a solid round. 
“We can move up a few spots with a good round tomorrow,” Kubinski said. “Tomorrow is another op­portunity to put together a strong and full team round.” 
The Irish hit the links again Tuesday morning at 
8:30 a.m. 

Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 




Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT                              AND JEFF KNUREK 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, November 1, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 




Filling the gaps 
New-look Irish tip off 
2011-2012 season  
By ANDREW GASTELUM  
Sports Writer  
The age of Hansbrough is  
over, as Irish fans everywhere  
get their first look at head coach  
Mike Brey’s newest project in  
Notre Dame’s exhibition against  
St. Xavier tonight at the Purcell  
Pavilion.  
Following the departure of  
do-it-all guard Ben Hansbrough  
and experienced forwards Ty­ 
rone Nash and Carleton Scott,  
who all now play profession­ 
ally in Europe, the Irish will  
patiently approach replacing  
three of their top five scorers,  
Brey said.  
“Patience is the key word for  
me,” Brey said at Notre Dame’s  
media day. “Last year’s product  
was a finished product on the  
first day of practice. They want­ 
ed to play right away and they  
were ready.  
“This group is going to have  
to scratch and claw for us to be  
able to do this. Our non-league  GRANT TOBIN/The Observer  
schedule is very demanding. We  Senior forward Scott Martin drives the ball into the paint during  
have a lot of new faces that we  Notre Dame’s 89-79 overtime victory over Louisville on Feb. 9.  
are going to be figuring out. We  
are going to have to be patient  fifth-year leadership and expe- NCAA violation, and Martin are  
and work through it.”  rience of forwards Tim Abro­ the team’s leading returning  
Brey said he expects sopho­ maitis and Scott Martin.  scorers from last season after  
more guards Jerian Grant and  Abromaitis, who will be un­ averaging 15.4 and 9.7 points  
Alex Dragicevich to rise to the  available for the first four reg- 
 
occasion and fill in behind the  ular season games due to an  see SCORERS/page 14  

ND CROSS COUNTRY 


Sophomore garners conference distinction 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 

Sophomore Martin Grady was a nine-time letter-winner in high school. He ran cross country and track and field, while also competing in a more unconventional sport — bass fishing. 
“It was a great time,” Grady said. “We actually had a pretty good fishing team, but I could not make it to the state meet for fishing. I wasn’t the biggest fan of competitive fishing, but just sitting there and tossing a worm out was enjoyable.” 
While Grady calls fishing a mere hobby now, the Burr Ridge, Ill. native has excelled in cross country and has fin­ished as one of Notre Dame’s top two finishers in each race he ran this season. 
He earned All-Big East hon­ors last week during the Big East Championship. He placed 10th in the field, finishing the eight-kilometer race in just 
23:52.2. The No. 29 Irish fin­ished sixth in the conference. 
“It’s nice to have it done, but ultimately, it’s for the team,” Grady said. “Whether I’m ninth or 11th didn’t matter too much. [I] probably would have rather had our team move up a little bit more.” 
Grady said many of his Irish teammates set high goals for the conference meet, hoping to place in the top 10. 
“A lot of guys on the team have the potential to be up there too,” Grady said. “I’ve always had a little bit of high expectations for myself. A bit of confidence can come from [finishing as the top sopho­more in the Big East].” 
Last season, Grady ran a 4:27.71 mile at the Notre Dame Invitational, finishing in 17th place. He also finished 11th during the 3,000-meter race at the Indiana Univer­sity Relays, posting a time of 
8:45.94. During the Big East Indoor Championships, Grady placed 21st in the 5,000-meter race as a freshman. 
“The transition of being a freshman is pretty big,” Grady said. “People need to adjust to the workload, the number of miles. Being done with that is definitely a good thing. To have the system down is a big help.” 
Grady, a business major, said learning under the expe­rienced upperclassmen helped him develop and adjust to col­lege athletics better. 
“[They’ve] been huge,” Grady said of the upperclass­men. “I’ve been lucky at the time I came in. Last year we had [former Notre Dame run­ner] Dan Jackson. He was just perfect. He would tell us his 


see GRADY/page 13 
MEN’S GOLF 


Irish stumble in first two rounds 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 

In their final event of the fall season, the Irish complet­ed the first day of play in the Royal Oaks Intercollegiate, a two-day tournament in Dallas, Texas, on Monday. The Irish struggled to find consistency and rhythm through the first 36 holes of the event en route to an eleventh place finish for the day. 
Texas A&M leads the tourna­ment with a -11 score through 

SMC SOCCER 

two rounds, 25 strokes ahead of the Irish. “There were several teams that played well today,” Irish 
coach  Jim  Kubinski  said.  
“They  outputted  our  team  
pretty handily.”  

The Irish struggles on the putting green contributed to a number of high scores, a problem that has held back the team the whole season. On a day in which the Notre Dame golfers recorded over 30 bird­ies, they notched a similar number of bogeys. 
Sophomore Niall Platt carded the low score through 36 holes for the Irish as he followed a pedestrian +1 in the first round with a -3 in the second. Platt came out of the gate strong in the second round, recording four birdies on the front nine. His final score puts him into a five-way tie for 10th place in the individual rankings. 
Max Scodro led the Irish in the first round with a -3 score but faltered on the second 18 
see SCODRO/page 14 



Belles look to close season with win 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s will take on Hope College at home today in an at­tempt to avenge an earlier sea­son loss and end its season with a win. 
“They are a tough team for sure,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “Last time we played [Hope] away, and they have a turf field, which changes some things.  We’re excited to face them again on our home field.” 
The Belles (5-10, 9-10) have had a rough streak of games leading up to the end of their season. Seated fifth in the MIAA, they have fallen to conference opponents in six of their last eight games. 
Hope (10-5, 12-6) won seven of its last ten games and will com­pete against the Belles to im­prove its record and determine its spot in the MIAA playoff. The Flying Dutch are currently tied for third in the MIAA conference with Calvin. 
“They are fighting for a play­off spot,” Joyce said. “ They will come ready to play.” 
Joyce said that despite the rough end to their season, he has seen marked improvement in his team since they last lost in a 2-0 decision to Hope in Holland, Mich. on Oct. 6. 
“I think we’ve gotten better at not giving up good shots,” Joyce said. “Hopefully we can keep them from scoring and find the right combination offensively.” 
The Belles record is already 

see JOYCE/page 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 



Team prepares to host regular season finale 


By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
After rescheduling the game twice due to weather, the No. 14 Irish will give their last regular season game against Seton Hall a third try at noon today at Alumni Stadium. 

The match, originally sched­uled for Oct. 19, was postponed because of inclement weather and rescheduled for Monday. After Seton Hall’s game against Connecticut on Saturday was 
see SETON HALL/page 14 




