The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

Friday, November 18, 2011

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com

Friday, November 18, 2011

Friday, November 18, 2011

Friday, November 18, 2011

ndsmcobserver.com | page 5


Commentary

Football Recruiting

Two years from now, we’ll thank this class

Two visit for final home game

By ALLAN JOSEPH
Sports Editor
As the season draws to a close, so too does the weekly rush of visitors to campus. Only two prospective play­ers will take official visits to campus this weekend. One is California tight end Taylor McNamara, who has verbally committed to Arizona. While McNamara is still ostensibly considering the Irish, not land­ing him would not be the end of the world for Notre Dame, according to Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank.
“I think with [freshman tight end] Ben Koyack they just felt like there was a guy who could play early and they probably didn’t need another tight end,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “I think they’re looking for one guy possibly — if they didn’t get anybody it wasn’t that big of a deal. … If it isn’t coming this class, they’ll certainly take two next class. There aren’t a lot of great tight ends this year. McNamara’s the only guy they’re really interested in. I don’t think they’ll look at anybody else but they do really like him.”
Frank said recruits like McNamara notice the proud tradition of Notre Dame tight ends, a list that includes cur­rent NFL players Anthony Fa­sano, John Carlson and Kyle Rudolph. 
“I just think that they do a really nice job of developing tight ends and then getting them the ball,” Frank said. “Tight ends have caught a lot of passes for Notre Dame over the last 10 years, and those guys notice that when they’re looking at where they’d like to play football.”
Frank considers tight ends coach Mike Denbrock to be one of the main reasons tight ends who have big aspirations look to commit to the Irish.
“They’ve got a really good run of tight ends and putting guys in the NFL and guys be­ing really productive,” Frank said. “I think Mike Denbrock’s proven that he’s one of the best tight end coaches in the coun­try.”
Iowa receiver Amara Dar­bow will also take his official visit to South Bend this week­end — but it will certainly not be the first time Darbow learns about Notre Dame.
“He’s been to Notre Dame six or seven times, coming to games, coming to camps, I be­lieve [he has been to] spring practice,” Frank said. “He’s been around Notre Dame quite a bit. He knows a lot about the program [and] knows a lot about the coaches.
“I think [safeties coach] Chuck Martin’s done a very good job of recruiting him and he’s certainly been a guy that they’ve been high on for a long time.”
Frank said Darbow’s biggest asset is his pure athleticism.
“He’s just a fantastic ath­lete,” Frank said. “He’s maybe a little more raw than, say, [Notre Dame commit] Deon­tay Greenberry … but he’s got more downfield speed.
“Notre Dame needs guys that can stretch the field, and he’s certainly a guy that can do that.”
The Irish will be competing with two other storied pro­grams for Darbow’s services.
“A lot of people think Michi­gan and Florida are the two other schools in this race,” Frank said. “I think it’s going to be important for Notre Dame to get him around players and get him to hang out with Notre Dame’s players. He’s got the type of personality that will fit in real well with Notre Dame’s players.”
Indiana quarterback Gun­ner Kiel, who recently backed off his commitment to Indiana, may also take an unofficial vis­it to South Bend this weekend. Kiel’s presence will be deter­mined largely by the result of his playoff game Friday night, but Frank said if Kiel does vis­it, it will be another good sign that the Irish are the frontrun­ners in the race for the home-state gunslinger.
“I would say Notre Dame’s doing really well with Gun­ner Kiel,” Frank said. “I think Notre Dame can be very hard to beat in this race as long as they continue to impress on the field and show that they’re headed in the right direction team-wise. I think they’re go­ing to be in pretty good shape when it all comes down to de­cision time. If he visits again this weekend, I think it’s an­other really good sign for Notre Dame.”
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. Email Mike at 		mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you.
Contact Allan Joseph at 		ajoseph2@nd.edu

Apparently I will invent a time machine two years from now, because I’m about to issue a sincere piece of gratitude from 24 months in the future.
To this year’s 38 seniors, 24-year-old Douglas Farmer thanks you. Really, thank you.
Next year, Notre Dame will be success­ful, but it will also be going up against a schedule so crazily difficult it could not have been created by Director of Athlet­ics Jack Swarbrick, but rather by his alter ego, Captain Jack Sparrow.
Two years from now, Notre Dame will find itself in the spotlight as soon as the first preseason magazines hit the news racks, and that spotlight will not diminish until the first week of January. This year’s 38 seniors deserve credit for that spotlight, but two years from now, how will we ever thank them?
That is why I hopped in my time machine and came back to write this column.
Thank you 38 for showing up every day, two (in some cases three) years under Charlie Weis’ command, and two years under Brian Kelly’s command. A few of your classmates, even role models in the class ahead of you, departed during the coaching change. You stuck by your teammates and your University.
Thank you 38 for not driving a wedge through the team after a difficult 6-6 season in 2009, and thank you for not doing so after opening last season 1-3. Both instances begged for a mutiny, and in both instances, you were the stabilizing force, as the older players looked toward their own futures, and the younger players looked to you for guidance.
Thank you 38 for bouncing back from both of those dismal records, now holding a career tally of 28-20. No, that is not stellar, and it is certainly not the record you envisioned when you took the field against San Diego State in 2008, but it is still a testament to what you 38 have done.
You 38 have embraced Kelly. Three weeks ago he threw most of you under the pro­verbial bus during his Thurs­day press conference before the Navy game. Some senior classes would have quit on a coach after such a bone-head­ed gaffe. Instead, you handled the drama in-house in graceful fashion.
You 38 have removed some of the sting from the loss to USC a few weeks ago, and instilled belief once again in your class­mates, all 2,000 of us. That loss was a dagger, to us and to you. Honestly, many of us gave up at that point, but you did not.
And your lasting legacy: You 38 have established a culture in the Irish locker room. This culture, one of fun-loving Trick Shot Mondays yet also one of an all-consuming desire to pursue victory each and every week, will still be visible two years from now. As fans bemoan disco-ball helmets, field turf and jumbotrons, this culture is becoming the defining charac­teristic of Notre Dame football. Thank you.
When receiver Michael Floyd and quarterback Dayne Crist committed to Notre Dame four years ago, it was seen as an unparalleled recruiting coup. Neither of their careers has panned out as they expected, both laden with injuries and controversy, yet both have maintained positive attitudes through it all.
When linebacker Darius Fleming and defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore joined them in that recruiting class, word of their potential traveled faster than my time machine does. While both Fleming and Lewis-Moore have excelled at points in their careers, they have also become the core of the tight-knit Irish locker room.
In Floyd’s and Crist’s wake, two years from now TJ Jones and Tommy Rees will walk, stockpiling stats.
In Fleming’s and Lewis-Moore’s roles, Louis Nix and a trio of current freshmen will stand. Nix, Stephon Tuitt, Aar­on Lynch and Ishaq Williams will spread as much humor to their teammates as they do fear to their opponents.
Rightfully so, Jones, Rees, Nix and Co. will receive ac­colades for these accomplish­ments in two years, but the real thanks go to you 38, who established a precedent they had no choice but to follow.
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.


Douglas Farmer
Editor-in-Chief



The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

ndsmcobserver.com | page 3

Friday, November 18, 2011

Harrison Smith

Smith honored as lone captain

Despite switching positions often early in his career, senior Harrison Smith solidifies the defense

By ERIC PRISTER
Senior Sports Writer
In a career filled with ups and downs, winning seasons and losing seasons, and position changes, fifth-year safety and captain Harrison Smith has al­ways remained consistent.
On the field, he has started every game over the past three seasons and leads all active Irish players in tackles, pass break-ups and interceptions. Off the field, Smith said he leads, not vocally, but as a rock for his teammates.
“I’d say credibility with my teammates [is my greatest strength as a captain],” he said. “They all know the kind of guy I am. I’m not a fake guy, I’m not a ‘rah rah’ guy. If you’re looking for a great speech, I might not be the guy. But they all know they can count on me and that I’ll do anything for them.”
Even Irish coach Brian Kelly, when he told Smith he would be the lone captain for the Irish throughout the season, reminded the fifth-year safety to remain consistent.
“He just told me not to be somebody I’m not,” Smith said. “He said just to keep doing what I’ve been doing to this point — that’s why he wanted me as captain. So he said just be your­self and keep doing what you’ve been doing.”
Smith said that in being a captain, he not only has a re­sponsibility to remain steady for his teammates, but for all of Notre Dame’s fan base.
“It’s a big responsibility,” he said. “So many people love this school and follow this school, so there is a lot you have to live up to. It’s also good though be­cause it makes you want to ele­vate your game all the time and always be that guy that people can look to.”
Smith redshirted his fresh­man season, but has played in every game since. The Gatorade player of the year in Tennes­see as a senior in high school, he said the camaraderie he saw on Notre Dame’s team was what drew him to the school.
“The recruiting process — I hated it, so I didn’t take all my visits,” he said. “I visited Ten­nessee and here, and at the end of the day, I just really liked how the team interacted with each other. Obvi­ously everything else is great — the tradition, everything Notre Dame has to of­fer academically. But just the way the guys acted with each other, how close every­one was, was re­ally what sold me on the place.”
Smith played in every game of his sophomore season at safety, starting all but four contests and finishing fourth on the team in tackles. He continued to play safety through the first half of his junior season before switching to outside lineback­er after six games. Smith said the transition was difficult, but made him a better player in the end.
“I would say [changing posi­tions] could be good or bad,” he said. “If you’re not mature enough and don’t know enough about the game and are not ready to handle a bunch of dif­ferent roles, I don’t think you’ll ever be able to settle into a role. But I’m glad I did it now because I learned so much from it.
“Now I know what it’s like to be a linebacker, and so what they’re think­ing when I’m playing be­hind them. But I’ve al­ways seen my­self as a safe­ty, even when I was down there, I was more of an under­sized linebacker, so it’s good to be back playing safety.”
Despite the position switch, Smith had another productive year in 2009. He was third on the team in tackles with 69 and started every game for the Irish.
When Kelly took over as head coach before the 2010 season, he moved Smith back to his natural position at safety. Smith took advantage, finishing sec­ond on the team with 93 tack­les, and added seven intercep­tions to his resumé. He picked off his first career pass against Boston College and intercepted three passes in the first half of the Sun Bowl against Miami, which tied a team record. His seven interceptions ranked fourth in the nation in that cat­egory.
“Ever since last year [my thought process] is always [to] make a play,” he said. “If there’s ever an opportunity for an in­terception, that’s what you’ve got to go for. But if you realize that the ball’s coming down and you’re not in position for an in­terception, you’ve got to go for the breakup.”
Smith is currently second on the team in tackles behind ju­nior linebacker Manti Te’o and leads in pass break-ups with nine. Kelly said Smith is excel­lent at leading through his ac­tions, both on and off the field.
“[He is a] leader by example, how you prepare, how you take care of your­self, both on and off the field, what it’s like to rep­resent Notre Dame football seven days a week, 24 hours a day,” Kelly said. “I mean he’s the kind of guy that you can model as to what your programs look like because of the way he handles him­self all the time. When you’re in the mix of changes going on in your pro­gram, he has to be a great com­municator to the other players as well. He sometimes has to carry the water, so to speak, in terms of the messages. And he’ll always be welcome here because of what he’s meant to us, I mean our entire program here, too.”
Smith cred­its some of his development to his position coach Chuck Martin. He said Martin does a good job bal­ancing a strict on-field rela­tionship with a genial relation­ship outside the stadium.
“There’s been so many people who have had an effect on my time here that it would be hard to name ev­erybody,” he said. “Now, Coach Martin has made an impact on my game and just being around him, picking up things off of him — he’s been very influen­tial.
“He really does a good job separating when he’s mad at you on the field and then when you’re off the field, and he does that with all of the players. He’s always looking out for every­one and making sure they’re alright, but once you’re on the field, he’s going to get after you.”
When asked about his next step, Smith said his goal is the same as any other play who plays college football — the NFL. He is currently ranked sixth among graduating safe­ties on Scout.com for draft po­tential.
“[The NFL] is everybody’s dream, who plays college foot­ball, to go on and do that,” he said. “So, if that’s an opportu­nity then that’s what I want to do.”
Smith said despite all the ups and downs of his career, his experience at Notre Dame has been one of the best of his life.
“I wouldn’t want to say [it was] a wild ride, but [my time at Notre Dame] has been kind of like a roller coaster, on and off the field. But I wouldn’t trade it for anything. It’s been great — just the relationships you make with not only teammates and coaches, but with students. The guys in the dorm, my roommates — I had the same room­mate every year, John McGeehan. Relation­ships like that are things that I’ll never forget.
“If any­thing has gotten stronger than it was when I was recruited here, [it is the] things that people don’t see when you watch a game, just our day-to-day lives, stuff like that. How many of us always hanging out, talking about anything, it’s just really cool to be a part of.”
Contact Eric Prister at              eprister@nd.edu


“I’d say credibility with my teammates [is my greatest strength as a captain]. They all know the kind of guy I am. I’m not a fake guy, I’m not a ‘rah rah’ guy. If you’re looking for a great speech, I might not be the guy.”
Harrison Smith
senior safety

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer
Senior safety Harrison Smith surveys the field during a 28-3 win over No. 14 Utah on Senior Day in 2010. Smith recorded seven tackles and an interception in the victory.

“Ever since last year [my thought process] is always [to] make a play. If there’s ever an opportunity for an interception, that’s what you’ve got to go for. But if you realize that the ball’s coming down and you’re not in position for an interception, you’ve got to go for the breakup.”
Harrison Smith
senior safety


“If anything has gotten stronger than it was when I was recruited here, [it is the] things that people don’t see when you watch a game, just our day-to-day lives, stuff like that. How many of us always hanging out, talking about anything, it’s just really cool to be part of.”
Harrison Smith
senior safety

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer
Senior safety Harrison Smith tackles a ballcarrier in Notre Dame’s 59-33 win over Air Force on Oct. 8.

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

Friday, November 18, 2011

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com

Robert Blanton

Blanton seizes starting opportunity


Senior cornerback Robert Blanton shuts down opposing receivers to lift the Irish defense

By CHRIS MASOUD
Assistant Managing Editor 
Editor’s Note: This article originally appeared in the Sept. 23 edition of The Observer.
They call it being on an island. No man’s land. Responsibilities range from deflecting a pass to jamming a receiver to shedding a block to making an open-field tackle to intercepting the op­posing quarterback. Candidates must possess a sub-4.5 40-yard dash time and a minimum 36-inch vertical.
Still interested in the corner­back position? 
“You don’t have any help out there. If you don’t have safety help over the top, there’s no help out there. It’s like an island. If you mess up, it’s going to be a touchdown hands-down.”
Take it from senior cornerback Robert Blanton, Notre Dame’s stalwart cornerback.
Blanton played four quarters of shutdown defense, deflecting passes and recording six tack­les in one of the most impres­sive defensive performances this season, a 31-13 win over Michi­gan State on Sept. 17 that included Blan­ton’s key sack of Spartans quarterback Kirk Cousins in the third quarter.
“We felt very strongly about Robert Blanton com­ing into the season, that he would give us great play,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “I think he’s ex­ceeded everybody’s expectations at this point. He’s been a consis­tent performer for us.”
Blanton’s natural comfort at the cornerback position comes from experience as much as ath­letic ability. A one-time safety, Blanton converted to the cor­nerback position as a sophomore in high school and never looked back. 
But that natural comfort did not translate to success on every down early in Blanton’s career, and the corner found himself shuffling in-and-out of the start­ing rotation as a sophomore after starting against USC, Syracuse and Hawaii as a freshman.
Following a year of ro­tations with former Irish cornerback Darrin Walls and senior Gary Gray in 2010, Blanton secured his position on the pe­rimeter in his final year in pads for the Irish.
“The difference now is that he comes into this year with a lot of experience, a lot of confidence,” defensive backs coach Kerry Cooks said. “He’s got to be one of the guys back there in the secondary that sets the tone. When he goes out there and he makes plays, he’s one of those guys that’s just got a personality that energizes everybody.”
While Blan­ton brings a renewed en­thusiasm to the position, Kelly met with the corner earlier in the year to discuss his verbal ap­proach on the field. 
“I don’t allow talk on the field, so we had our conversations in the first couple of practices last spring,” he said. “Since that time, he’s curtailed the talking.
“It’s great that he’s got that kind of personality. He just doesn’t talk on the field. He does it with his actions, which is what I expect of him.”
Those actions included an electrifying 82-yard interception return late in the fourth quarter to dash any chance of a Spartan come­back and seal the Irish vic­tory, a critical win after an 0-2 start. At the conclusion of the return, stadium pub­lic address announcer Mike Collins recapped the play with a new call: “Sir Robert Blanton.”
Collins, who describes the North Carolina native as a “southern gentleman,” said he has only used a handful of nick­names in his 30 years as the voice of Notre Dame Stadium, reserving the distinction for only certain occasions.
“So, I met Robert his sopho­more year,” Collins said. “No matter what, he answers every­thing with, ‘Yes, sir,’ — every­thing. So I went to him after last season and asked if there was something special he did on the field, would he mind if I called him ‘Sir Robert Blanton.’
“Then I said I had to wait un­til something really special hap­pened, and then it did against MSU, and he is now Sir Robert Blanton.”
Collins may call him “Sir”, and his teammates may call him ‘RJ,’ but opposing offensive coordina­tors simply calling him frustrat­ing. The corner’s success, which includes another late intercep­tion against Michigan in the sec­ond game of the season, stems from an intense preparation process that begins in the film room.
“RJ’s up here studying just as much as the coaches are,” Cooks said. “It’s ridiculous. Sometimes I’ll tell him a play, and he’ll al­ready know the play is happen­ing just based on the recognition, the splits. A lot of that comes from studying and understand­ing what the offense is trying to do to him.”
Blanton, who said the corner­back position is 90 percent men­tal, said he focuses his time in the film room studying opposing receivers and their tendencies rather than highlights of his past perfor­mances.
“100 per­cent I watch my oppo­nent,” he said. “Our coaches have a great breakdown for us. They gave us clips, cut-ups. I’ll watch those and then watch the receivers and evaluate each receiver on the team. But I don’t study too much. It’s fun to go in there and evaluate your opponent, and it helps you on Saturday to be suc­cessful and see what your oppo­nent’s doing. It’s like studying for an exam. Saturday is the exam.”
While Blanton has been im­pressive this season, he remains focused on the task ahead, tak­ing each game and each snap one at a time. 
A constant test in practice, senior wide receiver Michael Floyd, said Blanton possesses a number of qualities that make him difficult to beat both down the field and in short-yardage situations.
“He’s tall and long,” Floyd said. “He gives you a lot of difficulty. He presses you. You have to know how to get off the line. He gives us a lot of pressure and a lot of good technique that we can get help on.”
Defensive coordinator Bob Di­aco said the 6-foot-1 senior uti­lizes his length to his advantage, allowing Blanton to compete for the football in the air with larger receivers. Still, he credits Blan­ton’s intangibles, character and leadership qualities for his suc­cess on the field.
“He’s the bat­tery,” Diaco said. “He’s fun, he’s exciting. He’s just himself. And he leads by ex­ample. He doesn’t mind snatching a guy up and get­ting him right, no matter who it is. He’s constant­ly pressing and making sure the guys are locked in to the task at hand.”
In addition to his responsibili­ties on the field, Blanton has tak­en on the role of mentor to soph­omore cornerbacks Lo Wood and Bennett Jackson.
Cooks said he hopes the young corners will learn from Blan­ton’s “swagger” and relentless enthusiasm toward football.
“I think his passion for the game and his will not to get beat, you want to pass on,” Cooks said. “You have to be right on the edge. You got to have a short-term memory. When you line-up, nobody is better than you, nobody can beat you, but at the same time you respect every wide receiver. The reality of it is if you’re overconfident, then you are going to get beat.”
Contact Chris Masoud at 		cmasoud@nd.edu

“The difference now is that he comes into the year with a lot of experience, a lot of confidence.”
 
Kerry Cooks
defensive backs coach

“We felt very strongly about Robert Blanton coming into the season, that he would give us great play.”
Brian Kelly
Irish coach

KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer
Senior cornerback Robert Blanton chases a defender in Notre Dame’s 31-17 loss to USC on Oct. 22. 

“He’s tall and long. He gives you a lot of difficulty. He presses you. You have to know how to get off the line.”
Michael Floyd
senior receiver


TOM YOUNG/The Observer

Senior cornerback Robert Blanton returns an interception during the fourth quarter of Notre Dame’s 31-13 win over Michigan State on Sept. 17.

Braxston Cave

Cave stays close to home

Granger, Ind., native helps build elite Notre Dame offensive line before suffering injury


By JACK HEFFERON
Sports Writer
Despite its location in north­western Indiana, one of Notre Dame’s strengths has always been its ability to bring in elite players from across the country, players that hail from Hawaii or Florida, and everywhere in be­tween.
But sometimes, they’re al­ready here.
Senior center Braxston Cave was born and raised in Grang­er, Ind., about 10 miles away from Notre Dame Stadium. Cave was immediately immersed in all things Notre Dame, as sev­eral of his relatives attended the University, and his parents were diehard fans. Cave is even named after Braxton Banks, a running back who played for the Irish in the late 1980s.
“It’s true [that I was named after Banks],” Cave said. “I was 10 pounds, 4 ounces when I was born though, so I think my parents always knew I was probably going to be a lineman, not a running back.”
Cave only continued to grow from there and used that size, along with his athleticism and football IQ, to become a star at local Penn High School. After leading Penn to an undefeated regular season and being named the No. 4 center prospect in the country, scholarship offers rolled in. And while Cave and his family did consider every option, one call from former Irish coach Charlie Weis effectively ended the pro­cess.
“I looked at other schools,” Cave said. “But once I got my Notre Dame offer, this was my first choice.”
Cave arrived on campus and quickly went about making the transition to college life. He quickly cracked the lineup, and served as a short snapper on special teams in the first game of his career against San Di­ego State. However, that break­through was tempered by an injury which ended his season, but granted him both a medical redshirt and an additional year to learn how to excel in college.
“It was tough,” Cave said. “You always want to be out there playing and competing, but it gave me another year to learn the offense and to get comfort­able with everything. It’s differ­ent getting ready for major col­lege football compared to high school, but after a year of doing it, you learn the ins and outs of everything.”
That initial setback was un­derstandably tough for Cave, as it would be for any freshman stripped of an experience they had barely had time to enjoy. But while he worked hard on his own to rehab and get back to playing, he also had help from both his family at home and his family in the locker room.
“Having my fam­ily here was very help­ful,” Cave said. “Just being able to go right down the street to get a home-cooked meal, or have them bring food over for me and my roommates, always seeing them made things a lot easier.
“Another guy who I could go to was [then-senior center] Eric Olson,” Cave said. “He’s one of my best friends; I still talk to him almost every week now. He was one of the leaders on the team then. I always looked to him for advice, and he always helped me through everything.”
Cave bounced back in his sophomore year and played in 12 games, almost exclusively on special teams. But while that in itself was a bit of redemption for the center, he was not entirely satisfied.
“It was tough because you want to be out there playing, but as a younger guy, special teams is usually your easiest way to get on the field,” Cave said. “So I took advantage of be­ing able to get out there on the field through special teams and made the most of it.”
Cave did indeed make the most of his opportunity, and his hard work allowed him to take hold of the starting center posi­tion in his junior year. Forced to deal with both the new re­sponsibilities of being a starter and learning Irish coach Brian Kelly’s new, shotgun-oriented offensive schemes, Cave faced a difficult transition. However, the feeling of controlling every offensive play was enough to get him through it.
“It was a transition for me just as far as the way you go about things every day as a starter, and the way you need to take care of your body on a day-to-day basis just to play again on the next Saturday,” Cave said. “It was awesome though, just to know that whatever I did was going to have an influence on the outcome of the game. It was nice to have more of a leader­ship role.”
Cave thrived in that role, and since then has continued that success with an offensive line that has quietly become one of the elite units in the game. Notre Dame allowed just 20 sacks in Cave’s junior year, its best per­formance in a dozen years. The group has been even better this year, and held opponents sack­less for more than five games.
The group has also paved the way for running backs senior Jonas Gray and junior Cierre Wood, who have both enjoyed breakout seasons by follow­ing the lead blocking of Cave and company. Cave credits the group’s exceptional per­formance this year to close friendships they have fostered from four years together in the trenches.
“We’re very close. I’d say this is the most close-knit group I’ve been around since I’ve been here,” he said. “Making sure that we have a running game established and that we protect the quarterback is a big thing the offensive line prides itself on. Being able to rush for 200 yards a game just opens up the passing game that much more, so we took that responsibility upon ourselves.”
Cave’s season ended after he suffered a torn foot ligament during the win over Wake For­est, and the streak of five sack­less games ended the next week. And while Cave is disappointed at once again having a year cut short with injury, he has tried to use his experience to help out his teammates from the side­lines.
“Braxston has been extremely supportive,” said senior center Mike Golic Jr., who has started in Cave’s place since the inju­ry. “I’ve been able to draw on his experience now, and that’s been very helpful. I think ev­eryone in this locker room will tell you that Braxston is the type of guy that will do anything for his brothers in the locker room and he shows that in the way he plays out there on the field and the way he puts everything on the line for the guys on this team. I think he’s a guy you can count on.”
With the increased downtime he’s had while recovering from his injury, Cave has also been able to slow down and reflect on how blessed he has been to spend his time at Notre Dame.
“There’s so many people around the country, even around the world, that wish they could live a day in our shoes,” he said. “When you’re doing it on a day-to-day basis you don’t re­ally think about it like that, but when you get a chance to step back and look at the big picture, you realize that it’s pretty spe­cial”
“Being out, I have been able to think about that a little more. You know you hear the saying, ‘You don’t know how good you’ve got it until it’s gone’ and that’s a very true statement. You don’t realize until you’re separated from something you love.”
Cave has another year of eli­gibility, and he plans on using it to come back strong and help the Irish. After that, he’ll leave school with a degree in psychol­ogy, although he hopes his days of football will extend far past graduation.
“Obviously, my plan first off is to play football, hopefully for an­other 10-plus years,” Cave said. “That’s my goal. Depending on how that works out, I’d like to do my own business thing, and kind of see where I can go from there.”
But while his future plans may still be somewhat up in the air, one thing Cave is certain about is the experience he’s had under the Golden Dome will carry him through the rest of his life.
“I just love the camarade­rie and being able to hang out with the guys every day,” he said. “You’re so used to hang­ing out with the same people every day, even in the locker room, you’re just hanging out and talking, and you never get that ever again. The friendships I’ve made here I think will last a lifetime.”
Contact Jack Hefferon at 		wheffero@nd.edu

“The friendships I’ve made here I think will last a lifetime.”
Braxston Cave
senior center

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer
Senior center Braxston Cave looks to block a defender during Notre Dame’s 59-33 victory over Air Force on Oct. 8.


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer

Senior center Braxston Cave prepares to snap the ball during Notre Dame’s 31-17 loss to USC on Oct. 22. The USC contest was the first night game in Notre Dame Stadium since 1990.

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com

Friday, November 18, 2011

Lane Clelland

Clelland moves from offense to defense to special teams

By LAURA COLETTI
Sports Writer
Offensive tackle Lane Clel­land’s experience at Notre Dame has been all about learning, adapting and growing.
But the learning began far be­fore arriving on campus in 2008. Clelland began playing football at the young age of five years old, and grew up with the perfect teacher living in the same house­hold: his older brother, Lance.
Lance Clelland graduated from Northwestern in 2001 and was a four-year starter on the offensive line that won a Big Ten champi­onship in 2000. After graduat­ing, he went home to Maryland to coach his younger brother at the McDonogh School.
“I grew up watching [Lance],” Clelland said. “I come from a blue-collar family and growing up I was just always around foot­ball. [Lance] really taught me a lot of stuff.”
A dual-sport athlete at Mc­Donogh, Clelland was also a talented wrestler and his time spent wrestling contributed sig­nificantly to his football ability.
“Wrestling practice is some of the hardest work out there,” he said. “It’s good because it gives you a strong work ethic. Also, a lot of the control you need for your upper body as a wrestler is a huge factor in offensive and de­fensive line play, so I really think [wrestling] helped a lot.”
Under the tutelage of his brother and the added benefit of an off-season sport, Clelland was heavily recruited by schools such as Nebraska, Alabama, Michigan and Boston College, but commit­ted to Notre Dame during the spring of his junior year. After playing both offense and defense in high school, Clelland first took the field as an offensive tackle in 2009 after redshirting his fresh­man season. Since then, he’s taken on a variety of roles for the Irish.
“I played a little bit of defense in the spring of 2010 when Coach Kelly [was hired],” he said. “I’d been moving pretty well and they just wanted to give me a shot. I really liked defense, it was a lot of fun.”
Clelland has also spent time on a variety of special teams units. Despite being moved around so much, Clelland’s favorite spot is still on offense.
“Defense was a good time, but I’m kind of an offensive lineman at heart,” he said. “It’s what I was brought up to do. It’s been kind of engrained in me from the start.” 
This year, Clelland has adapt­ed to yet another role. Since tear­ing his ACL over the summer, he’s been sidelined for the year and has learned to be a support­ive teammate.
“I’ve been cheering guys on and motivating the younger guys,” he said. “If I see them in practice doing something that I can help them out with, a tech­nique here or there, I try to help them out.”
While this role is frustrating at times, Clelland has taken it in stride. 
“In general, I think it’s just about being more supportive for the team,” he said. “It stinks not to be able to play when you have been for just about your whole life. It’s all about how you handle it though.”
While there are many pos­sibilities regarding the future of his athletic career, Clelland’s experiences as a student-athlete at Notre Dame are some that will stay with him for the rest of his life. 
“[Being an athlete here] is go­ing to impact [the rest of my life] a lot because I feel like when you’re a student-athlete at Notre Dame, it’s essentially taking on a full-time job,” Clelland said. “You’ve got however many hours of work a week, with prepara­tion for everything. Preparation that goes into a game, prepara­tion that goes into the summers, into the spring. I mean, it’s a full-time job and that’s on top of our school work that we have.” 
Clelland said he appreciates the value of a challenging Notre Dame education.
“It’s going to help. Time man­agement is the biggest thing to learn, and I’ve definitely gotten a good grasp on it,” he said. “I understand how I am with time management and what I have to do and where I need to put focus on at certain times.”
A double major in English and Computer Applications, Clelland hopes to go into business after graduating. 
“English majors get the stereo­type that they’re going into law,” he said. “I’m trying to go into business to see what I can do. I feel like I’ll bring a different per­spective to things.”
Whether the future holds an­other year of blocking defenders on the offensive line or trying to make it as a businessman, the same skill set will be essential and will be what Clellend’s done all along: learn, adapt and grow. 
Contact Laura Coletti at           	lcoletti@nd.edu


SARAH O”CONNOR/The Observer
Senior tackle Lane Clelland blocks a defender during practice this season. Clelland has appeared in 13 games during his career.

Patrick Coughlin

Coughlin applies lessons from brother to earn role on team

By BRIAN HARTNETT
Sports Writer
For most Division I football play­ers, simply learning the roles and nuances of a single position is a job in itself. For senior running back Patrick Coughlin, life as a Notre Dame walk-on football player has required an understanding of sev­eral different positions, as Cough­lin has taken on the roles of receiv­er, running back and both kickoff and kick return specialist during his time at Notre Dame. 
However, Coughlin’s story of adapting to several different roles is not simply limited to the football field. Coughlin began his freshman year at Notre Dame as a member of the track team, a position that he had expected to hold throughout his college years.
As three-sport athlete at  Broth­er Rice High School in Chiacgo, Coughlin played football, basket­ball and track, but missed much of his final high school football season due to a separated shoulder. 
“After I got hurt, I decided to concentrate on track, and I thought that that would be my only way to play a sport in college,” Coughlin said. “The coach at Notre Dame asked me if I was interested in run­ning track here, and I joined the team as a preferred walk-on.”
Coughlin spent his freshman year and the first semester of his sophomore year competing for the team, but soon came to the realiza­tion that he truly missed playing football. His longing for the game was not just reignited by watching Notre Dame play on fall Saturdays; it was largely fueled by watch­ing the efforts of his older brother Brian, then a walk-on receiver for the team.
“I never thought that I would play football again until my brother walked on,” Coughlin said. “Since he is only one year older, we have always hung out with a lot of the same people and, when he got on the team, I started hanging out with the other walk-ons … They told me that I could definitely make the team if I tried out, which encouraged me a lot.”
With that support system be­hind him, Coughlin tried out for the team in 2009 and made the squad. He was quickly thrust into the role of scout team receiver, go­ing against Notre Dame’s top de­fenders to prepare them for oppos­ing offenses.
“It’s really a different experi­ence as a walk-on player,” Cough­lin said. “You really have to prove yourself to the coaches and other players before you can start earn­ing respect from them.”
Coughlin made another switch at the start of spring practices in 2010, when new coach Brian Kelly asked Coughlin if he would like to make the switch to running back, a position that he had not played since grade school.
“When Coach Kelly came here, there were only four scholarship running backs, and his offense is so fast-paced that it requires two running backs,” Coughlin said. “I don’t really know what did it for him, but I think they needed a walk-on on the scout team for indi­vidual running back drills.
“I was intimidated at first but, looking back, I think it’s one of the best moves I’ve made in my football career.”
Despite the lack of experience at his new position, Coughlin made his mark early, rushing for 80 yards in that year’s Blue-Gold game. How­ever, with the talent in the Irish backfield, Coughlin’s chances at seeing game action meant he would have to make one more switch, this time to the kick­off and kick return special teams units. 
Coughlin’s strong work ethic in practice helped him earn a spot on the first team kickoff and return units the first week of the 2010 season. He amassed seven tackles in 10 games last season and has so far made one tackle in three games this year.
“This year, I’ve pretty much been the 12th man on kickoffs,” Cough­lin said. “If anyone goes down, I can pretty much play any position needed.”
Coughlin put his versatility on display in one of his favorite foot­ball memories, this year’s contest against Michigan State.
“I had no idea that I was playing against Michigan State until Friday night, and I was playing a position that I had never played before,” Coughlin said. “On one of the final kickoffs, I just said that I was going to run down the field and run over one of the guys on the double team.
“Fortunately, the guy on the double team hit me in such a way that I was able to get right up and help [David Posluszny] with the assisted tackle.”
A graduate stu­dent currently pur­suing his master’s degree in accoun­tancy, Coughlin plans to start work at accounting firm Price Waterhouse Coopers in Chicago after graduat­ing from Notre Dame.
“I hope to have a good career there and then, after that, I don’t really know where I’ll end up,” Coughlin said.
With his trademark versatility, however, Coughlin should have no problem finding his way to success. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at           	bhartnet@nd.edu

“I was intimidated at first but, looking back, I think it’s one of the best moves I’ve made in my football career.”
Patrick Coughlin
senior running back


 Observer File Photo
Senior running back Patrick Coughlin carries the ball in the 2009 Blue-Gold Game.

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

Friday, November 18, 2011

ndsmcobserver.com | page 7

Dayne Crist

Crist overcomes adversity

Heralded recruit struggles with injuries but remains source of optimism


By ANDREW OWENS
Associate Sports Editor
Editor’s Note: This article originally appeared in the Sept. 2 edition of The Observer.
When Dayne Crist snaps on his helmet and runs out of the tunnel for Saturday’s season opener, it will not be the first time he has participated in the Irish pregame ritual. But the senior quarterback will have a different feeling now, hav­ing battled back from a sea­son-ending knee injury for the second consecutive year to re­claim the role of starting quar­terback.
“More than anything, [run­ning out of the tunnel] will have a very gracious feel to it,” Crist said. “I’ll be incredibly thankful for the opportunity to go out there and play again and do everything and do the things I love. After that it’s time to get to work and focus on South Florida.”
The signal-caller began the 2010 season as the starter be­fore sustaining a ruptured pa­tella tendon in the loss to Tulsa on Oct. 30. The team went 4-5 with Crist under center before sophomore quarterback Tom­my Rees took over the reins and guided the Irish to a 4-0 finish, at which point many fans were ready to forget about the senior leader.
“It was tough — you couldn’t really worry about those kinds of things,” Crist said. “More than anything it was about get­ting my body back and just re­maining confident in my abili­ties because I’ve always had a great deal of confidence in what I can do. Really I just try to focus more on what I can do, how I can help this team as op­posed to worrying about all the stuff I couldn’t control.
“I just hope [Notre Dame fans] know how much I care and how hard I work to help this team win.”
The coaching staff has raved about Crist’s performance in fall practice, both with his atti­tude and on-field performance. The experience has affected him in ways that a healthy 2010 could not have, offensive coor­dinator Charley Molnar said.
“Here’s what the injuries I think did for Dayne — they made him a more resilient man,” Molnar said. “In other words, he’s really been able to bounce. It’s taught him to get off the floor when he’s knocked down maybe in a way that he wouldn’t have if he had re­mained healthy. It made him appreciate the opportunity he got.”
Irish coach Brian Kelly agreed that Crist has the ideal mindset heading into 2011.
“I would say quite frankly and quite honestly, [Crist] is the kind of guy I want to coach,” Kelly said. “He’s tougher men­tally. He handles himself in that leadership position in the way I want our quarterbacks to handle it. We have great confi­dence in his ability to lead our football team to a champion­ship.”
Neither Kelly nor Crist envi­sion a less mobile version of the senior quarter­back in 2011, despite the risk of another in­jury.
“He has to play the game the way it comes to him,” Kelly said when announcing Crist as the starter Aug. 23. “One of the things he did in camp was show great escapability. After two knee surgeries, he moved well, he was able to extend plays. We couldn’t have somebody that couldn’t extend plays in our offensive system, and he was able to do that.”
Crist said it is not in his na­ture to hold back on the field because of the past injuries. 
“I’m going to play with the same intensity I’ve always played with and that’s the only way I know how to play is with full speed,” he said. “I’m going to do everything I can.”
While Kelly has mentioned “championship” when talking about his quarterback, Crist is focused on the short term and looks at each day as an oppor­tunity to grow in year two un­der the new system.
“This year it’s about play­ing with more maturity and having a greater knowledge base of the offense this year,” he said. “I think it’s going to help my game grow, so it’s go­ing to help the offense grow. Understanding the hard work and preparation I do to help my game is going to help our team get better so we’re making sure we’re continuing to do that at all times.”
When the Irish headed into fall camp in Kelly’s inaugural season, anyone and everyone knew the starting quarterback job was Crist’s. This year, he had to beat out freshman Ev­erett Golson and sophomores Andrew Hendrix and Tommy Rees, who had a 4-0 record on his side.
The battle was atypi­cal because of the close bond the senior and Rees share, Crist said.
“I’ve said this before, but we have a brotherly relationship really,” he said. “When he first got here I tried to help him with everything I could help him with and mak­ing sure he was comfortable here and now it’s gotten to the point where he came in and played very well and gained some great experience in the games he played in.”
The relationship has evolved from Crist teaching Rees to the two instructing each other.
“It’s great having a guy out there you can really bounce things off,” Crist said. “He sees some things out there I may not have seen and vice versa. We’re trying to help each other get better because we’re both team guys and understand in help­ing each other get better we’re helping the team get better.”
Crist said he hopes his re­turn from the injuries paral­lels those of Jason White and Sam Bradford, two Oklahoma quarterbacks who suffered knee injuries and came back to win the Heisman Tro­phy and, more importantly to Crist, earn berths in the national cham­pionship game.
“I think it’s a positive thing and something to aim for and more than any­thing it instills some confi­dence that it can be done and has been done before,” he said. “Having that evidence wasn’t the sole thing that was driving me through rehab and things like that but it’s nice seeing those things and having some­thing to shoot for.”
Crist benefits from leading an offense with several offen­sive weapons that are big-play threats every time they touch the football, such as senior re­ceiver Michael Floyd and junior tight end Tyler Eifert.
“Having the guys we have on offense makes the quar­terback’s job a lot easier, so obviously I need to help those guys because those guys have incredible playmaking ability,” Crist said. “I think everybody on this offense has a very ag­gressive mindset and wants to go out and score a lot of points and that’s the goal of the of­fense. We’re real excited those guys are back.”
Crist’s effect on the team has improved with an increased vo­cal leadership and confidence, Molnar said.
“I think he is the same guy,” he said. “He is probably more confident than he has been just knowing that he’s the starter and getting virtually all of his reps right now with the first unit. He’s been even sharp­er than he was lead­ing into him being an­nounced as the starter.”
For Crist, the motiva­tion has al­ways been the same since he signed with Notre Dame as a five-star quarterback in 2008 and battled through two inju­ries to reach the point he is at today.
“More than anything, my love for the game, a love of this University and a love for my teammates [motivates me],” he said. “There’s nothing more that I want to do other than play with the rest of the guys on this team and win for this University.”
Contact Andrew Owens at 		aowens2@nd.edu

“I just hope [Notre Dame fans] know how much I care and how hard I work to help this team win.”
Dayne Crist
senior quarterback

TOM LAThe Observer
Senior quarterback Dayne Crist carries the ball against Navy on Oct. 29. Notre Dame won the game, 56-14.


“There’s nothing more that I want to do other than play with the rest of the guys on this team and win for this University.”
Dayne Crist
senior quarterback

JULIE HERDER/The Observer

Senior quarterback Dayne Crist throws a pass against South Florida on Sept. 3. Crist completed 7-of-15 passes for 95 yards and an interception in the Irish loss.

Taylor Dever

Dever anchors offensive line

California native grows well-known locks, matures into dominant line player


By ANDREW GASTELUM
Sports Writer
The free-flowing, golden mane of fifth-year offensive tackle Taylor Dever all but represents the lineman: free-spirited, laid-back and a little rugged.
“I started growing it right before the Hawaii Bowl in De­cember of ’08 but it has been a process,” Dever said. “It is kind of my identity, from what other people have told me. They tell me that I can’t cut it because that is who I am.” 
But ever since the 300-pound lineman start­ed growing his hair, Dever has grown into a fixture on Notre Dame’s stal­wart offensive line. Dever, along with his roommate se­nior right guard Trevor Rob­inson, serves as the veteran anchor at the right tackle po­sition.
The experienced offensive line has only given up eight sacks on the year, including a five-game stretch where sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees was not sacked. The streak ended Saturday against Maryland — the Irish gave up three to the Terrapins — but lasted long enough for the Irish to take pride in it. Dever attributed the streak to the close bond the members of the offensive line share, most of whom have played together for more than three seasons. 
“When things like that [five-game streak] happen against Division-I-level teams that are the best in the coun­try, I think there is something special to say about that,” he said. “We have such a tight-knit group that jells and plays well together. We are all re­ally close and it goes to show how well we are playing.
“Our goal every game is to keep Tommy’s jersey clean. I am part of the offensive line and it is a group effort. Be­ing a part of that is definitely something to be proud of.”
Before the Maryland game, Rees had only been sacked five times in nine games while the offensive line paved the way for a rush­ing attack ranked 41st in the nation, despite running a spread of­fense. Irish running backs, ju­nior Cierre Wood and senior Jonas Gray, average 5.6 and 7.1 yards per carry, respectively, a testament to the performance and work ethic of Dever and his team­mates in the trenches.
Dever said his most memo­rable performances have both come against Michigan State in the past two seasons. Sta­tistically, the Spartans have the eighth-best defense in the country this year.
“This year I graded out the best against Michigan State, just like last year,” Dev­er said. “Their defense is al­ways a hard-nosed defense that stops the run and it is so easy to get pumped for a game like that and get the motor going.”
The 22-year-old marketing major said he has come a long way from the recruiting pro­cess he experienced as a high school senior from northern California and is happy with the decision he made. 
“When you are going through the recruiting pro­cess at 17 and 18 it is defi­nitely a cool process,” Dever said.  “I got offers to most of the Pac-10 schools, but the only schools east of that re­gion that offered me a schol­arship were Miami (Fla.), Nebraska and Notre Dame.
“Growing up I always loved Notre Dame but the whole, complete package was the main reason why I came here. Meeting the guys, I just felt that I belonged. I kind of just fell in love with it. It felt like the right place. And it has gone by fast but I have made the best of the opportunity and the chances that I have gotten.”
Those chances didn’t start to materialize until 2010, after spending three years backing up four-year starter Sam Young, now with the Buf­falo Bills. But Dever said the time he spent behind Young — whom Dever considers his mentor — helped to develop him into the player he is to­day. In turn, he now serves as mentor to the younger Irish line­man, just as Young was to him.
“I started off being in the backup role and a lot of guys go through that and when my time came I made the best of the opportunities that I had,” Dever said.  “Now I find myself in the position that I am in now and I am trying to do everything that I can to help other guys learn and be­come better football players.
“From Sam I learned that football is a game where you have to have a really short mem­ory. You just have got to learn that not every play is going to go your way and you just have to adapt and move on.  I still talk to him to this day. He is in Buffalo fighting for a chance and I am pulling for him.”
Dever said he plans to fol­low in the path of his men­tor by entering the NFL Draft come April, since the fifth-year business student is offi­cially finished with school at the end of the semester.
“Well I am going to try the whole training thing with the combine and the [NFL] Draft and see where that takes me,” he said.  “If it doesn’t work, I’ll still have my Notre Dame degree. I think right now I would want to try to work somewhere for a little bit and go back to school.”
But before he takes the next step, Dever still has one more game to play on the hallowed grounds of Notre Dame Sta­dium.
“To put on the [Notre Dame] helmet for the last time will be cool, fun, sad and every­thing all in one,” De­ver said.  “I mean that is just part of it. There is always go­ing to be a beginning and an end to things in life and that is what I’ll keep in mind.”
And just as there was a beginning to the golden flow back at the Hawaii Bowl in 2008, there will soon be an end, Dever said, even if there is a Facebook page for them.
“One of my high school bud­dies plays at Hawaii and he made [Taylor Dever’s Lus­cious Locks] as a joke and it actually blew up,” he said. “I have had it for so long that I love it but I am also sick of it. With my career at Notre Dame coming to an end it might be time for the hair to go.”
It won’t be hard to find Dev­er this weekend. Just look for the golden mane beneath the golden helmet.
Contact Andrew Gastelum at 	agastel1@nd.edu

“We have such a tight-knit group that jells and plays well together.”
Taylor Dever
senior offensive tackle

“Growing up I always loved Notre Dame but the whole, complete package was the main reason why I came here.”
Taylor Dever
senior offensive tackle

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer
Senior offensive tackle Taylor Dever looks to make a block during Notre Dame’s 31-17 loss to USC on Oct. 22

“There is always going to be a beginning and an end to things in life and that is what I’ll keep in mind.”
Taylor Dever
senior offensive tackle


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer

Senior offensive tackle Taylor Dever looks to block a defender during Notre Dame’s 15-12 victory over Pittsburgh on Sept. 24. The Irish averaged 5.7 yards per rush in that game.

Steve Filer

Versatility and leadership mark linebacker’s career


COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer
Senior linebacker Steve Filer chases the ballcarrier during Notre Dame’s 15-12 win over Pittsburgh on Sept. 24.

By CONOR KELLY
Sports Writer
For many players, roles are set and easily defined. For senior outside linebacker Steve Filer, the only constant has been the need to adapt. In his four years at Notre Dame, Filer has seen time at all linebacker positions, on the defensive line and special teams, the area where the Chicago na­tive has made his mark most em­phatically.
“I just do whatever is needed. I can play pretty much any posi­tion,” Filer said. “I’ve played both sides of outside linebacker, both ends, a little inside backer, pret­ty much whatever the defense needs me to do. You have to be a team player no matter what your circumstances are.”
In a cruel twist to his senior campaign, Filer suffered a sea­son-ending knee injury in prac­tice on Nov. 10, effectively ending his playing career at Notre Dame. Fellow senior linebacker Darius Fleming wore Filer’s No. 46 jer­sey against Maryland as a tribute to his injured classmate. Though Filer will not play against Boston College on Senior Day, his impact can be seen all over the field.
Filer came to Notre Dame as a much-heralded recruit out of Mount Carmel High School in Chicago, where he was named Il­linois Gatorade Player of the Year in 2007 and appeared on nu­merous All-American lists. Filer made an impact early on for the Irish on special teams and as a reserve linebacker while appear­ing in the team’s final 11 games. 
The adjustment to the college game was a learning process, Filer said.
“You have to realize that there’s always a microscope on you. Everyone always analyzes everything you do,” Filer said. “On top of that, the speed of the game is way faster than in high school. You have to realize that you may not be the best player on the field, but everything that’s good is worth working for.”
The succeeding two years saw Filer become a special teams force, leading the team in special teams tackles in both his sopho­more and junior years, while competing for time at outside linebacker behind Fleming and former Irish linebacker Brian Smith. Filer registered one-and-a-half sacks and a forced fumble on top of 32 tackles during the two seasons.
While Irish fans have long drooled over Filer’s size and ath­leticism, the kind showcased by a YouTube video in which Filer jumps out of a pool of waist-deep water, the senior’s leadership may be what is missed most in the remainder of his injury-shortened senior year and be­yond. 
Having led the team in special teams appearances as a junior, Filer has helped to instill a pride in special teams play among young players like Bennett Jack­son and Austin Collinsworth, whose contributions in this often overlooked segment of the game have helped to continue Filer’s legacy.
“I take a lot of pride in that part of the game because [spe­cial teams play] just shows that you don’t need to be an offen­sive or defensive player to make an impact,” Filer said. “Special teams is just as important as any play on offense or defense, and we have to bring the younger players up the right way or else they won’t do things the right way when they’re older. We were taught a lot of things by guys like [former Irish linebacker Mau­rice] Crum and [former Irish linebacker] Scott Smith and I try to continue that tradition. Players can be coaches too.”
For Filer, the thrill of playing for Notre Dame has not worn off since his first trip through the tunnel in 2008.
“I’ll miss that feeling when you walk out onto the field for the first time, because it’s the same the second time and the third,” Filer said. “All that just really takes your breath away.”
On top of that, Filer said his teammates and friends at Notre Dame will be what he misses most when is time under the dome is done.
“The people I’ve met here have gotten me into all kinds of new things, and I’m a smarter person than I was when I got here,” the former Dillon Hall resident said. “The memories of big wins and just being with my teammates are what bring a team together. Those are the things that you will remember for the rest of your life.”
Filer, a management-consult­ing major with a minor in an­thropology, has not ruled out trying to make a living in the NFL, though he looks forward to a possible career in consult­ing. The senior’s attitude toward work echoes that of his approach to football.
“They say it’s a lot of hours,” Filer said. “But when you’re do­ing something you love, you never work a day in your life.”
Contact Conor Kelly at 		ckelly17@nd.edu

Jonathan Frantz

Longtime Irish fan fulfills dream after waiting two years

By WALKER CAREY
Sports Writer
Senior walk-on outside line­backer Johnny Frantz was born with Notre Dame in his blood. 
His father, Michael, was a walk-on defensive end with Ara Parseghian’s Irish in the early 1970s and earned a letter as a senior in 1972. Frantz’s ties to Notre Dame contributed to his strong fandom from an early age.
“I grew up always watching and rooting for Notre Dame,” Frantz said. “And always root­ing against everyone else.”
Frantz arrived on campus in the fall of 2008 and spent two seasons in the student section cheering on his beloved Irish. But when the spring of 2010 came around, the then-sopho­more set his sights on walking on to the foot­ball team he grew up cheer­ing for.
“Throughout that spring, I began commu­nicating with the program about the pos­sibility of walk­ing on,” Frantz said. “Then in the fall, they brought me in for some early morning skill sessions like catching some passes and whatnot. They really wanted to see how I was on my feet and how I moved.”
Before arriving at Notre Dame, Frantz attended Saint Ig­natius High School in Cleveland — the same high school former Irish players Robby Parris and John Ryan attended, as well as Frantz’s current teammate, ju­nior inside linebacker Dan Fox.
“Seeing those guys come from my high school and play here, especially defensive guys like John Ryan and Dan Fox, was a big part of making me de­cide that I wanted to walk-on,” Frantz said. “Watching those guys [Parris and Ryan] play here was great and playing with Fox has been great. They are all great guys.”
The experience of playing for the Irish and the relationships he has formed on team is not something Frantz will ever for­get.
“The whole experiencing of playing with everyone and the feeling of brotherhood has been incredible,” Frantz said. “Being part of something that I have al­ways dreamed of and having the opportu­nity to be with these guys ev­ery day has just been fan­tastic.”
Notre Dame walk-ons are known for the camaraderie that exists among them and Franz said he has also savored that part of the experi­ence. 
“Being a part of WOPU (Walk-On Players Union) has been great,” Frantz said. “I actually live with [senior walk-on] Pat Coughlin and [senior walk-on] Sean Oxley and those guys have been here longer than I have, but they have been great in bringing me into the whole WOPU experience and making me a part of it. I have really en­joyed my experience in WOPU.”
Away from the football field, Frantz’s most memorable Notre Dame experience came during his junior year when his par­ents came in from Cleveland for Junior Parents Weekend.
“Having my mom and my dad come up was great,” Frantz said. “The JPW Mass especial­ly was memorable. That whole weekend with my parents was just fantastic. Just being able to spend time with them at a place we have all loved so much for so long was truly memorable. Notre Dame did a great job put­ting it all together. It was ex­actly what I expected though. Notre Dame always does a real great job in planning events.”
Frantz, who is an economics major, plans to follow in his fa­ther’s footsteps and become a lawyer.
“I know that I will be going to law school next year,” Frantz said. “I am still trying to figure out where, as I continue to get my applications done. I took the LSAT on Oct. 1 and am still waiting for that score to come back, but I am sure it will all come into place.”
Even though he is looking to be closer to a bigger city, Frantz will not rule out Notre Dame as a potential law school destina­tion.
“I am definitely going to ap­ply [to Notre Dame] for sure,” Frantz said. “I am looking to get to a bigger city though. Nothing against South Bend, it is a great city, but I eventually want to be in a bigger market.”
Contact Walker Carey at 	wcarey@nd.edu


KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer
Senior outside linebacker Jonathan Frantz makes a play during Notre Dame’s 2011 Blue-Gold spring game. Frantz spent two seasons as a regular student before walking on to the Irish. 

“The whole experiencing of playing with everyone and the feeling of brotherhood has been incredible.”
Jonathan Frantz
Irish linebacker

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

Friday, November 18, 2011

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com

Darius Fleming

Fleming learns to adapt to change

Senior linebacker Darius Fleming solidifies defense during the ups-and-downs of past four years

By ANDREW OWENS
Associate Sports Editor
Editor’s Note: This article originally appeared in the Nov. 11 edition of The Observer.
During his time at Notre Dame, senior outside linebacker Darius Fleming has always been willing to adapt to new situa­tions, whether it’s the change of a base defense or, off the field, learning to cook.
“I got to eat, so I’ve actually started to teach myself a little bit,” he said. “Just be­ing away from home — Mom’s not here to make every meal. We have to teach our­selves a bit.”
Fleming admits he is still learning how to cook and is open to trying new recipes, but said he has not tried anything too difficult just yet.
“[I just cook for] my room­mates, like [senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore],” Fleming said. “So me and him will cook together and we have to feed ourselves, so we pitch in and figure something out, try new stuff and kind of go from there.”
Adapting on the field
Fleming, who has the second most career sacks of any active player, behind Ethan Johnson, has played for two different coaching regimes, and success­fully navigated the switch from a base 4-3 defense to the 3-4 the Irish currently employ.
“[Adapting to the changes] has been a challenge at times, but myself and a lot of the other guys have adapted really well through the different coaches and different schemes, and [it] has helped us as players being coached by different coaches and being in different schemes,” Fleming said. “You just appreci­ate the type of coaching that we do have. I think we’ve done a good job with that, and I think the coaching staff is set for a while now, so I don’t think we have to worry about that in the future.”
Senior safety Jamoris Slaugh­ter said the senior linebacker has been an irreplaceable pres­ence for the Irish defense.
“I feel like Darius is a key el­ement to the defense,” Slaugh­ter said. “He’s one of those guys that does ev­erything right. He’s going to set that example and edge for the defense and do his responsi­bilities. He’s good with the pass rush and he’s a great player.”
Irish coach Brian Kelly said Fleming is crucial to the suc­cess of the de­fense because of his versatility and the several hats he puts on as a playmaker on the unit.
“He has the dual responsibility of putting his hand on the ground and rushing as a defensive end, as well as dropping off in coverage,” Kelly said. “That individual position builds that uncertainty, in what you’re get­ting as a pre-snap look. If he’s only one-dimensional, in other words, if he can only rush the passer and not drop, everybody knows what you’re doing defen­sively.
“He now has taken that next step that he’s as good in cover­age as he is on the line of scrim­mage, defending the run, rush­ing the quarterback. That was the dimension we needed from Darius. He’s taken that next step now in year two and can do those things for us. That’s where you build the uncertain­ty . what is he doing, rushing, dropping.”
When using a three-linemen look, it makes the role of the outside linebackers even more critical in pressuring the quar­terback. Kelly said Fleming is exactly the kind of player the Irish need at the “cat” lineback­er position.
“I would say that we placed a high demand on him and we’re demanding that kind of play from him,” Kelly said. “Instead of just being a good player, we’re demanding him to be a great player. And he’s risen to that challenge. We’re challeng­ing him every day. He’ll come to me on Sunday, two sacks one weekend. Are you a real player? You need two more next week.
“So it’s always been those jabs at him to keep pushing him to be the kind of player we think he can be. And then along the way, you’re gaining confidence as well.”
In Flem­ing’s se­nior sea­son, he has continued to do what he has al­ways done — adapt. With several defensive players injured, including both defen­sive ends, the management ma­jor has stepped up his game to another level as his teammates thrive on his presence.
“I just do my job, and I know the guys around me and who is out there will do their job,” Fleming said. “We have guys dinged up, but the guys step­ping up are doing a great job and they’re helping the team get better every week.”
A playmaker making plays
In Notre Dame’s 24-17 vic­tory at Wake Forest on Nov. 5, Fleming made a critical play that snuffed out what proved to be the Deacons’ final scoring opportunity. Backed against its own end zone, the Irish defense got exactly what it needed — a turnover, in the form of a forced fumble. While senior safety Harrison Smith was initially credited with jarring the ball loose, Fleming was the one who made the initial hit, even if he does not take full credit for it.
“It was a play much-needed at that time,” he said. “Me and Harrison, we both joke about it; we made the play. We got there and made a big hit and the ball came out and it was an impact play in the game, so that was some­thing big for us to step up and make that play. I’m not going to take all the credit. I’m actually going to share with Harrison, so I give myself half a caused fumble.”
The play ignited the defense the rest of the game, as the unit held the Deacons score­less throughout the second half, good enough to capture the sev­en-point victory and improve to 6-3 on the season. Fleming said the defense thrives on making big plays in big moments.
“Forcing turnovers is huge as a defense, especially when the offense is in scoring posi­tion, you have to have players out there that are going to make plays and get the offense back there on the field,” he said. “I think we’ve done a decent job and continue to get better, and I think it will carry over to the games in the future.”
With only two games remain­ing in the regular season and Senior Day this weekend, Flem­ing said he is starting to realize his time at Notre Dame is about to come to a close.
“I definitely [think about it],” he said. “That’s definitely kicked in. It’s been a fast time here, but it’s fun. The good and the bad. I’ve enjoyed all my time with all the players, and [I have] just grown with these guys and just competing with them. My time here is narrowing down, but I’m going to enjoy every moment of it.”
With the bittersweet ending in sight, Flem­ing said he does not al­low himself to think of what his lasting mark on the program might be.
“To be honest, I couldn’t an­swer that question yet,” he said. “We have three more games left and I’m going to try to leave a good mark with those, and af­ter the bowl game, ask me that question and I think I’ll be able to answer.”
Contact Andrew Owens at                   aowens2@nd.edu


“I feel like Darius is a key element to the defense. He’s one of those guys that does everything right. He’s going to set that example and edge for the defense and do his responsibilities.”
 
Jamoris Slaughter
senior safety

“I would say that we placed a high demand on him and we’re demanding that kind of play from him. Instead of just being a good player, we’re demanding him to be a great player.”
 
Brian Kelly
Irish coach

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer
Senior linebacker Darius Fleming attempts to block Navy quarterback Trey Miller’s pass on Oct. 29.


“Forcing turnovers is huge as a defense, especially when the offense is in scoring position, you have to have players out there that are going to make plays and get the offense back there on the field.”
Darius Fleming
Irish linebacker

TOM LA/The Observer

Senior linebacker Darius Fleming, center, helps bring down a ballcarrier in Notre Dame’s 56-14 win over Navy on Oct. 29. Fleming recorded two tackles in the victory.

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

Friday, November 18, 2011

ndsmcobserver.com | page 11

Michael Floyd

Floyd among nation’s best

Senior receiver Michael Floyd shatters the record book while leaving a lasting legacy

By ANDREW OWENS
Associate Sports Editor
Editor’s Note: This article originally appeared in the Sept. 16 edition of The Observer.
Whether working on his degree or snaring passes, Michael Floyd relies on one source of inspiration in every­thing he does — his close rela­tionship with his mother.
 “[My mother] means a lot,” Floyd said. “She’s my motiva­tor, what keeps me going. She keeps the fuel going in my body to get good grades and play well on the football field. I just want to do well for her and for my­self.”
Theresa Romero raised Floyd in St. Paul, Minn. and, though now separated by distance, the two remain close during busy autumns. Romero will be in attendance for the Boston College game and was on hand for the Oct. 22 loss to USC and saw her son catch 12 passes for 154 yards and two touch­downs in the season opener against South Florida.
When Floyd announced he would return for his senior season, he said his mother played a large role in the de­cision.
“I always told my mom I wanted to graduate college, so that was my first goal,” Floyd said. “It was the reason why I came back to graduate from here. I think I made it this far in college and I didn’t want to leave here without getting a degree.”
Floyd’s plan suffered a set­back when he was arrested March 20 after being pulled over by Notre Dame Security Police and charged with driv­ing a vehicle while intoxicat­ed. Once again, Floyd relied on his mother’s support while his status with the University and football team was uncertain.
“You just got to look past that and that was a wrong de­cision, but moving forward I’m doing a good job with the team, handling things right, being a vocal leader and carrying myself in a positive way,” Floyd said.
Since Floyd’s reinstatement, the coaching staff says it has seen a more mature leader in the senior receiver.
“Michael has been what we expected and more,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “He’s been great in the locker room, he’s been great around our teammates, he’s a joy to coach, he’s upbeat and positive about everything, and he’s a great competitor. I’m just lucky that I get an op­portunity to coach him.”
Floyd’s strong work ethic has been a constant throughout his time at Notre Dame and has set an example for the rest of the offense, offensive co­ordinator Charley Molnar said.
“I say it over and over again, his best form of leadership is this: He comes to work every single day and does his best, he gives his all,” he said. “He’s really the hardest worker we have on the offense. Day-in and day-out, he really is the benchmark for effort offen­sively.”
Proving he’s the best
Floyd returned to school with a chip on his shoulder after professional scouts rated other receivers higher while evaluating potential draftees.
“Just knowing that they see other guys with more stats or whatever means I have to prove to everybody that I am the best receiver in the coun­try and I’m going to show it,” he said.
Despite Floyd’s watermark performance over his first three seasons, the preseason All-American has elevated his game to another level in 2011.
“I think I’m moving around a lot more on offense and ex­ploiting the defense’s weak­nesses with our advantages,” he said. “That’s put me in a position to get good catches and keep the chains moving.”
Through 10 games, Floyd has caught 77 passes for 922 yards and seven touchdowns. 
“He’s more mature, just like most of the guys on offense,” Molnar said. “A year in our system has certainly helped, knowing what our ex­pectations are. I think his skill set has improved dramatically from when we first got here — things that you may not recognize but as coaches we see day-to-day, things that he didn’t do as consistently a year ago, he’s doing right now.
“He knows how to set up a defensive back where maybe a year ago he would just use his strength and try and run through him, where now he’ll do things to try and turn a cornerback’s or a safety’s hips and get himself in the best po­sition to get open.”
Chemistry with Rees
Part of Floyd’s success at the end of 2010 and in 2011 can be attributed to the relationship with sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees.
“I think it’s what the de­fense gives us,” Floyd said. “I think he knows that with that wide receiver corps what­ever cover­age they give somebody’s open. I think he knows that and that we can bail him out of any sit­uation that he has.”
In the last 14 games, dating back to 2010, Rees and Floyd have devel­oped a strong rapport and the signal caller has been able to take advantage of his top play­maker’s talent.
“As far as my job goes, when you have a player on the field like Michael, you try to get him the ball as much as you can,” Rees said. “Our offense does a good job of putting him in different situations on the field to keep a defense guess­ing and different ways to put the ball in his hands. For me, it’s pretty easy — if I can get it to him, things work out pretty well. I think a lot of the work we’ve done in the past year-and-a-half in practice has pre­pared us to be successful.”
Molnar said the work the two have put in together has paid off early in 2011.
“Tommy’s pretty good about going through his progression and finding the right guy, but Mike’s getting open and he’s working his progression to Mike, and Mike’s coming up with the ball right now,” he said.
Record-breaker
With his 12 catches against South Florida on Sept. 3, Floyd passed Jeff Samardzija to be­come the all-time Notre Dame receptions leader with 183 (he now has 196). His two touch­downs in­creased his career total to 30, pad­ding a re­cord he set last season. Despite the accomplish­ments, Floyd said he only pays atten­tion to wins and losses.
“[I didn’t know] until the news told me,” he said. “It means a lot and whatever I can do to help the team to do win is the main goal and that’s what I’m trying to do. At the end of the day you want to win and whatever you break, if you’re not winning, it doesn’t mean too much.”
As a senior, Floyd knows his days at Notre Dame are num­bered, and he already envi­sions what type of mark he wants to leave on the program.
“I just want [people] to know I was a fun guy and a leader on and off the field and in the community,” he said.
A legacy like that is sure to make any mother proud.
Contact Andrew Owens at      aowens2@nd.edu


“I always told my mom I wanted to graduate college, so that was my first goal.”
 
Michael Floyd
senior receiver

TOM LA/The Observer
Senior receiver Michael Floyd is wrapped up by a defender in Notre Dame’s 56-14 win over Navy on Oct. 29.

“Just knowing that they see other guys with more stats or whatever means I have to prove to everybody that I am the best receiver in the country and I’m going to show it.”
 
Michael Floyd
senior receiver


“At the end of the day you want to win and whatever [records] you break, if you’re not winning, it doesn’t mean too much.”
Michael Floyd
senior receiver

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer

Senior receiver Michael Floyd runs after a catch against Maryland at FedEx Field on Nov. 12. Notre Dame won, 45-21, as Floyd caught nine passes for 90 yards and a touchdown.

Mike Golic, Jr.

Center follows in father’s steps yet blazes own path


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer
Senior center Mike Golic, Jr. looks for a block in his first start, Notre Dame’s 45-21 victory over Maryland on Nov. 12.

By MOLLY SAMMON
Sports Writer
By the time Notre Dame se­nior center Mike Golic, Jr. got his first start for the Irish against Maryland on Saturday, he had the opportunity to make both plays on the field and vid­eos of them. 
After the tape of Golic’s per­sonal rendition of Toto’s song “Africa,” complemented by back-up dancing from senior nose guard Brandon Newman, brought in 2,000 hits on You­Tube, the pair were a success and the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) major realized a new dream of his. 
“Brandon and I weren’t play­ing a ton before this year. Foot­ball’s a big part of our lives, so you have to have something to blow off a little steam every once in a while,” the West Hart­ford, Conn., native said. “Being FTT majors, we’ve made it a lit­tle goal on the side to become a YouTube sensation.”
Aside from the karaoke, Golic and Newman also paired up for a behind-the-scenes broadcast series called, “Our Team, Our Story,” which features updates about the team from a more personal vantage point.
“People see what we do on Saturdays all the time and the hard work, but we just want them to see the personality of this team because we think it’s a great one,” Golic said. “It’s something fun we’ve been able to do on the side. Me and my partner in crime, Brandon, we’ve been blowing up YouTube since the whole Toto incident.”
Golic’s decision to major in FTT stemmed not only from his love of movies and television, especially ‘Modern Family’ and ‘Glee,’ but also the major’s per­fect academic fit for a future in sports broadcasting. Following in the footsteps of his father, ESPN analyst and former Notre Dame defensive lineman Mike Golic, Sr., Golic hopes to join his father on television screens across the nation.
“When it’s all said and done, I’d like to work in the industry like my dad,” Golic Jr. said. “I know that like football, sports broadcasting is a tough road and a tough field, and I think that’s something that I was for­tunate to see — all the hard work that my dad put in to get where he is career-wise.”
The father and son share many things in common, like their name, a spot on the Notre Dame football team and an ap­preciation of the visual arts of television, but they do have their differences. 
“I’m much better looking than my dad. I’m the much bet­ter looking of the Mike Golics. I’m funnier, I’m smarter, far more humble. I’m a way better dancer. He does have a great head of hair though, very full and rich waves, so I can’t com­pete with him in that aspect,” Golic said with a laugh. “All kidding aside, at the end of the day, we are each our own person, but seeing the way he’s lived his life, I’ve very fortunate to have a role model like him. As a player, the way he lives his life, the way he’s raised my brother [Notre Dame junior tight end Jake Golic] and sister and me, and as a husband to my mom — he’s been my hero since I was a little kid.”
Golic’s passion for sports broadcasting and his academic calling in FTT are a good fit for the self-proclaimed “visual learner.” 
“I think seeing the way things and concepts play out, the way they’re used visually is definitely how I get things,” Golic said. “I always say, ‘You can draw things up Xs and Os all day, but going out there and doing them is always the best way that I learn.’”
Golic got his chance for on-field learning experience dur­ing his sophomore year when he played in three games for a combined seven minutes of competitive action, the first in the later minutes of Notre Dame’s 35-0 shutout of Nevada in its 2009 season opener. 
“It was definitely a rush ... getting to run out of the run­nel of the stadium with 82,000 people in the stands,” Golic said. “It was the icing on the cake to be a part of the end of the game.”
This past Saturday, he made his first career start for Notre Dame against Maryland at Fe­dEx Field in Landover, Md.
“It was everything I hoped it would be,” Golic said. “It was an exciting moment for me, and I just really was happy to help this team in a bigger role.”
With his first start coming so late in his career, Golic said he had extra nerves to settle be­fore kickoff against the Terra­pins. 
“It was something I had to wait a long time for,” Golic said. “I tried to calm myself down more than anything, re­mind myself that it’s a football game. No matter how long you sit, you don’t forget how to be a football player if that’s who you are.”
Golic also met up with his dad at the end of Notre Dame’s 45-21 win over Maryland. 
“I saw him right after the game. He was just proud more than anything else,” Golic said. “It probably meant just as much to him as it meant to me. We’re both happy that that time finally came.”
Contact Molly Sammon at 		msammon@nd.edu

John Goodman

Receiver shows versatility in switching from quarterback


By SAM GANS
Sports Writer
When most football players arrive at Notre Dame, the po­sition they play for the Irish is one they’ve worked at for years and years. That was not the case, however, for senior receiver John Goodman.
Goodman, whose job for the Irish is to catch the football, spent the majority of his pre-college days throwing it in­stead. But it was ultimately his two years at the receiver posi­tion in high school that led for­mer Irish coach Charlie Weis to offer him a scholarship.
“I was a quarterback my whole life up until high school and then freshman year [of high school], the quarterback that was a sophomore was in our coaches’ minds better for the position,” Goodman said. “So as I became a sophomore and junior, I was his main re­ceiver for two years and [was on] punt return, kick return — all that stuff. That’s kind of what got me noticed, because they got me the ball a lot to make a lot of plays. 
“And then as a senior, I came back to quarterback and our coach basically used me as a dual-threat type of deal. It worked out because obvious­ly I got a bunch of offers and couldn’t be more thankful for [my coaches putting] me in the position to do that.”
Though Goodman has pri­marily played a receiver at Notre Dame, the former high school all-conference quarter­back from Fort Wayne, Ind., has also been asked to use his arm on occasion. His 32-yard touchdown pass last season to fellow senior receiver Michael Floyd put the Irish up 14-7 in a 44-20 win over Western Michigan. Goodman also took practice reps at the quarter­back position early in his Irish career.
“The thought was always up in the air because coach Weis knew I had played quarter­back and the other coaches when they came to my games — I was a senior at the time so I was playing quarterback in front of them — so they knew, ‘OK, well that’s going to be in the back of our minds all the time,’” Goodman said. “There was one point where I think [former Irish quarterback] Jimmy [Clausen] got hurt and we were down to two quarter­backs and I was the next guy after that. So that was pretty fun to get to experience that a little bit again.”
But when Irish coach Brian Kelly was hired prior to the 2010 season, Goodman be­came a permanent receiver. The coaching switch and new spread offense also caused a difficult adjustment period.
“My adjustment was pret­ty tough,” he said. “It took a while for me to understand Coach Kelly’s system in gen­eral. Coach Weis’ system was slower. It was more of a pro-style type of deal. This is ‘go, go, go,’ so it’s a huge difference when you go from a pro-style offense [and] traditional to a spread offense.”
As a senior, Goodman has also had an increased leader­ship role on the squad, more through example than words.
“I think in our [locker] room, he’s a pretty steady guy and guys look up to him because they know he’s been here and done that,” Alford said. “He does things the right way, as far as living his life right and coming to work and not com­plaining. He’s not a real vocal guy by nature and that’s fine, but he’s done a nice job.”
Goodman, who will gradu­ate in May with a degree in management-consulting, says he will look for internships once his playing career is over. When that moment will oc­cur, though, is not certain, as Goodman has a fifth year of eligibility and could possibly be asked by the coaching staff to return for another year. Right now, however, he is not focused on the future.
“It’s just something I can’t worry about,” Goodman said. “If I don’t [get a fifth year], that’s life, but right now, I’m just trying to work as hard as I can, get in there and do ev­erything I can in the games to help our team win and things will fall into place.”
With such fond memories of many great football moments during his time in South Bend, it is not a surprise that the thing Goodman will miss most is game day. And yet, it’s also not a surprise that, with two regular season games and a bowl game left, his thoughts are solely on winning.
“[Game day is] what you come here for — to play games and to win games,” he said. “And to see that atmosphere, it’s just something that here at Notre Dame you only see a few weeks out of the year. And it’s just something that’s so spe­cial that I’m definitely going to miss. But I can’t think too far ahead because we’re focusing on Boston College.”
Contact Sam Gans at 		sgans@nd.edu

TOM YOUNG/The Observer
Senior receiver John Goodman fields a punt during Notre Dame’s 38-10 win over Purdue on Oct. 1.

Gary Gray

Gray quietly makes plays

Despite setbacks, cornerback Gary Gray bounces back and leads the defense


By ANDREW GASTELUM
Sports Writer
When talking about himself, the humility of fifth-year se­nior Gary Gray shines through despite his quiet mood. Modest and self-effacing, Gray takes the blame for his own mis­takes, while attributing his accomplishments to the sup­port of other players and the instruction from his coaches. But behind the face of the South Carolina native lies a fierce competitor.
“Sometimes I am pretty qui­et and laid-back but I have a mean streak to me,” Gray said with a meek grin. “I just want to be remembered as a great teammate who led by example. Just as someone who made his plays and went out there with everything, not saying much but just making plays.”
Irish cornerbacks coach Ker­ry Cooks echoed Gray’s senti­ment, praising his defensive back’s hu­mility, poise and drive to be lead by example.
 “My mem­ory of Gary will be as a very quiet, very hum­ble guy who has a little dog inside of him. He is a pitbull and he plays like that,” Cooks said. “But he really is a tremendous leader more so by what he does rather than what he says. I appreciate guys like that and he is one of the most coachable guys that I have ever coached.”
But the fifth-year corner’s battle-tested poise was surely tested Sept. 10 against Michi­gan, when Michigan junior quarterback Denard Robinson caught Gray out of position a number of times throughout the game. 
The tipping point came with eight seconds left in the game, with Notre Dame up by three. Robinson hung in the pocket before throwing a 16-yard fade to redshirt junior receiver Roy Roundtree, who beat Gray down the sideline and out-jumped him for the ball. The worst part: Roundtree’s only catch of the game — the game-winning touchdown — came with two seconds remaining. Gray was even flagged for pass interference on the play as the Wolverines knocked off the Irish with a heartbreaking 35-31 win. 
The firestorm of vilification had only just begun, as Gray’s performance drew massive criticism questioning the cor­nerback’s toughness and over­all ability. Cooks said all of the criticism was completely un­warranted.
“[The Boston College game] is going on our 20th game to­gether. And in 19 of those games, Gary has been as good as any corner in the country,” Cooks said. “He had one bad game against Michigan and now everyone thinks he is a bad player. That is not the case and I don’t think he ever lost his confidence. He has moved on and he is going to make the most of his last couple of weeks.
“He has tunnel vision, which means he has the ability to tune things out that he doesn’t need to be a part of and tune in to things that are important to him. He has definitely tak­en that approach and he has played well.”  
Gray said the criticism af­fected him only until the next day, crediting Cooks’ help to get him to stay focused on the remainder of the season. 
“It affected me at that point, but we have a 24-hour rule and I couldn’t let it affect me for the rest of the season be­cause we had pretty good com­petition throughout. I couldn’t let that point lose me for the rest of the season,” Gray said. “Coach Cooks has helped me a lot as a person and as a player. He helped me get through it and he is a great teacher and is always on me to practice harder or focus on my keys.”
Despite the big setback in the Big House, Gray is tied for the team lead in interceptions with two and ranks fourth in tackles with 49. In his biggest games, the former U.S. Army High School All-American plays his best, averaging more than seven tackles per game against ranked teams, while averaging just under four against unranked teams. 
With  more than 150 tackles in his collegiate career, Gray has embraced his role as an aggressive tackling specialist within a veteran secondary. But what Gray said he will re­member most is the time spent in the locker room with his teammates, especially fifth-year safety Harrison Smith.
“I remember Harrison was playing linebacker when we first got here and he turned into a safety and a demonstra­tive leader on our defense mak­ing all of the calls and putting people in the right place,” Gray said. “Most of the guys that I came up with in my class are already gone but Harrison is one of those guys that came in with me. I’ll miss him and the memories that I have had and the bonds I have made with all my old teammates and the guys that are here right now. 
“The freshmen and young guys crack me up and some­times remind me of myself.”
Gray’s role as a leader trick­les down to those younger de­fensive backs as well, and not just for comic relief. When sophomore cornerback Lo Wood — who had seen sparse playing time before Saturday’s game against Maryland — re­turned an interception for a touchdown against the Terra­pins, Gray was the first one in the end zone to congratulate his likely successor. But now, all Gray wants to do is score a touchdown for himself. 
“I really need to score before I leave here,” he said. “[Former linebacker] Brian Smith won’t let me live it down because he has two touchdowns. But I still have a few more games to get it done.”
Gray’s chance came against No. 15 Michigan State on Sept. 17 in a 31-13 win over the Spar­tans. With just under four min­utes to play and the Spartans threatening at the goal line, Michigan State senior quar­terback threw a pass to one of his receiv­ers, which was then picked off by senior cor­nerback Robert Blanton and taken 82 yards, deep into Spar­tan territory. But Gray, who was in man-to-man cover­age on the intended receiver, tipped the pass and was set to intercept the pass before Blan­ton stole the show. 
“He actually took that one away from me. That was my man,” Gray said jokingly. “He wasn’t even supposed to come over that way, that was sup­posed to be my pick but he got it and did a great job. He prob­ably got farther than I would have with it anyways.”
Beyond his goal to tally a touchdown before season’s end, the corner’s unwavering focus remains on one goal: beating Boston College on Se­nior Day.
“The only thing that is on my mind is to go out and beat BC,” Gray said. “I remember a cou­ple of years ago [in 2008] when we lost to Syracuse on Senior Day I was just heartbroken for those seniors and I don’t want that to happen to this group.
“As far as all the emotions that come with Senior Day, I can focus on that after the game looking at the big picture. The fact that it is [the last home game] is in the back of your head but we just have to focus on going out and beating BC. That is what everyone is thinking. We have to still prepare the same way. Our goal is to beat BC and the more wins we get the better.”
With his five-year stay in South Bend coming to a close, Gray will take his last run out of the tunnel, but still equipped with his “tunnel vision” that has brought him to this point.
“I’m sure it’ll be emotional coming out on the field for the last time but we can’t get too emotional because we still have a game to play.”
Contact Andrew Gastelum at 	agastel1@nd.edu

“My memory of Gary will be as a very quiet, very humble guy who has a little dog inside of him.”
Kerry Cooks
Irish cornerbacks coach

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer
Senior cornerback Gary Gray breaks up a pass during Notre Dame’s 59-33 victory over Air Force on Oct. 8.


“I’m sure it’ll be emotional coming out on the field for the last time but we can’t get too emotional because we still have a game to play.”
Gary Gray
senior cornerback

TOM YOUNG/The Observer

Senior cornerback Gary Gray pursues a ballcarrier during Notre Dame’s 31-13 win over Michigan State on Sept. 17. Gray recorded 10 tackles against the Spartans.

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com

Friday, November 18, 2011

Jonas Gray

Gray powers Irish rushing attack

Senior running back Jonas Gray blossoms in his senior campaign to lead the offense

By ALLAN JOSEPH
Sports Editor
Editor’s Note: This article originally appeared in the Nov. 4 edition of The Observer.
Entering the 2011 season, se­nior running back Jonas Gray had done everything right to get his final campaign off to a fast start. After three years of waiting, Gray had finally found his opportunity to be a featured back.
“He did all the things it takes to have a great year,” running backs coach Tim Hinton said. “He worked hard in the sum­mer, in the weight room, in his conditioning. He worked hard in his summer two-a-days. He studied film, he’s learned his schemes and he understands the blocking in front of him.”
Notre Dame took the ball all the way to the South Florida 1-yard line on its opening drive, and Gray got the call to earn the final three feet and score the first touchdown of his collegiate career.
Moments later, South Florida cornerback Kayvon Webster had returned a Gray fumble 96 yards for a touchdown, and Gray’s dream start was in disar­ray.
“I was shocked that it hap­pened,” Gray said. “I kept trying to remember in my head what happened. It happened kind of fast, and I was thinking, ‘Did the ref blow the whistle? Was I down by contact?’”
The fumble stood, and Gray found himself facing doubt yet again. But when he re-entered the game later, his own troubles were not foremost on his mind.
“I was a little worried, espe­cially when I got back in and people started booing,” Gray said. “I was worried about my mom in the stands and how she was doing. I know she was prob­ably going crazy.”
Gray’s loyalty to his mother stems from his upbringing in Pontiac. Mich., and he carries the lessons his mother taught him to this day.
“We’re just a close-knit fami­ly. She’s a parent but at the same time she’s like my best friend,” Gray said. “We just always stuck togeth­er. That’s why I have that loyalty to my teammates, because she instilled that in me.”
That loyalty to his “football family” paid off for Gray when the Irish rallied around their senior tailback after his season-open­ing miscue.
“My teammates rallied around me, my coaches rallied around me, so I was okay,” Gray said. 
Yet despite rebounding and hitting his midseason stride, Gray said not a day goes by when he does not think about that South Florida contest — but not because of the fumble.
“In a lot of ways — I know peo­ple are going to say it’s not true — I feel like [senior quarterback Dayne Crist] getting benched had a lot do with me,” Gray said. “With him being one of my best friends, it was tough. It still is tough. That’s why I think about that game every day. You think about how fast it can be taken away from you.”
Belief from the top
After the first game, Irish coach Brian Kelly did not be­rate Gray, nor did he bench him. Instead, Kelly simply issued a challenge.
“He talked to me about it, and he just said, ‘How do you want to be remembered? It’s up to you. You’re the only person that can make it better or make it get worse,’” Gray said. “That was it. He said he believed in me.”
Hinton echoed Kelly’s senti­ments and shored up Gray’s be­lief in himself when the senior back needed it most.
“After the game, [coach Hin­ton] pulled me in his office and he was upset with himself … He said, ‘I should have played you more after it happened,’” Gray said. “That right there, it was refreshing — he and coach Kelly coming together and making sure that I didn’t get in the tank, and then realizing the talents that I had and the capabilities that I had when I didn’t even believe in myself.”
Hinton and Gray have devel­oped a close relationship that has helped spur Gray to rebound and accept Kelly’s challenge in the best of ways — Gray has reeled off eight touchdown runs in the last five games.
“We are very close. He always talks about how he loves us as people,” Gray said. “It’s just trust between me and him and the rest of the running backs in the room. We’re like an inter­mediate family inside of a big­ger family, and he’s the head of the house.
“[This success] is just great coaching. That’s what it comes down to.”
From his role calling plays, Kelly has been able to watch the fruits of the relationship be­tween Hinton and Gray turn into success on the field.
“Our job as coaches is to de­velop our players. It has to be a 50/50 relationship with them. We can only do so much,” Kelly said. “I think coach Hinton has done a great job with him. He’s finishing his runs. He’s playing like a 230-pound back. It’s fun to watch.
“His focus has been on finish­ing runs, being physical and be­ing that physical element in our running game. It’s really helped our offense.”
For his part, Gray credits Hin­ton with his renewed com­mitment to winning phys­ical battles.
“I love it. It’s exciting. It’s like coach Hinton always says: ‘Break your will with their tough­ness.’ That’s what it is,” the English and political science major said. “You’re out there running hard, you lower your shoulder and af­ter a while they’re not going to take you head on.”
Running after records
In response to Kelly’s chal­lenge, Gray gave himself one task: building a legacy.
“My one thing I wanted to do was leave a legacy of a guy who dealt with all that adversity, continued to come back, contin­ued to play at a high level and played through things,” he said. “I think I’ve done that, and I think there’s still a lot left to do.
“I always say it’s been so much of a journey. It’s had its ups and downs, its negatives and posi­tives, but I wouldn’t change a thing.”
Not only has Gray finished his career with its best play, but the presumed power runner has turned heads with his break­away speed.
“He had to be a physical downhill presence … and he’s done a great job,” Hinton said. “His explosiveness has been a little surprise and a happy sur­prise.”
Gray has been so explosive, in fact, that he has challenged a decades-old Notre Dame record for much of the season. Gray is currently averaging 7.1 yards per carry on the season, and averaged 8.5 yards per car­ry through the Navy game on Oct. 29. Reggie Brooks owns the modern record of 8.0 yards, set in 1992, with the all-time school record of 8.1 yards per carry posted in 1920 by the famed George Gipp.
“It is crazy, especially think­ing about where I came from, where I started,” Gray said. “To talk about breaking a record with a guy like that is — break­ing any type of Notre Dame re­cord from where I started — it’s pretty incredible.”
Though Gray knows his senior campaign may have put some in the NFL on notice, he has just one goal for the end of the sea­son — a goal fittingly inspired by the season’s start.
“For these last four games, I’m trying to do everything I can to help the team win,” Gray said. “If I work hard, I’m going to help this team win and I’m going to help myself in the future.
“I don’t think there’s a game really where I don’t think about that very first game. I think about going out there and pay­ing attention to detail and help­ing my team win — going out there and playing my hardest.”
Contact Allan Joseph at 		ajoseph2@nd.edu


“He’s finishing his runs. He’s playing like a 230-pound back. It’s fun to watch.”
 
Brian Kelly
Irish coach

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer
Senior running back Jonas Gray eludes an Air Force defender in a 59-33 victory on Oct. 8. Gray scored two touchdowns in the win.

“It is crazy, especially thinking about where I came from, where I started. To talk about breaking a record with a guy like that ... it’s pretty incredible.”
 
Jonas Gray
senior running back


TOM  LA/The Observer

Senior running back Jonas Gray finds a hole in Navy’s defense in a 56-14 Irish victory over the Midshipmen on Oct. 29. Gray rushed for 69 yards and three touchdowns in the win.

Mike Grieco

Walk-on kicker earns storybook ending against Air Force

By PETER STEINER
Sports Writer
It all started with a transfer from Holy Cross to Notre Dame, which led to walking on the foot­ball team, which created one memorable play during his se­nior year — a storybook ending for senior punter and kicker Mike Grieco.  
Grieco attended Holy Cross his freshman year, but always had his sights set on Notre Dame and the football program.
“I have loved Notre Dame since I was really young and always wanted to go here,” he said. “Ever since I started going to Holy Cross and didn’t have the grades to get in here, I knew that I had to have a new mindset and I knew that if I was going to trans­fer and do both with football and academics, I needed to be on top of my game.”
Grieco transferred to Notre Dame after his freshman year and immediately starting pursu­ing his next goal — playing for the football team.
“I tried to walk-on with [for­mer Irish coach Charlie] Weis but they were in midseason and then the [coaching] transition hap­pened,” he said. “I had a try-out in the spring of my sophomore year when the new staff came in.  I tried out as a kicker and they wanted me to both punt and kick so I was happy to take any oppor­tunity that I could get.”
In addition to Grieco’s own desire to play for Notre Dame, a former Irish football player also provided support and motivation.
“Former kicker Bob Thomas and his father actually first in­spired me to kick and also en­couraged me to try out at Notre Dame,” Grieco said.
Thomas was a place kicker for the Irish from 1971-73 and there was no better role model for Grieco than a former Notre Dame kicker.
After making the team in a backup role, Grieco finally re­ceived his moment to shine when he kicked an extra point in the Air Force game this year.
“Being able to kick an extra point, which [Irish coach Brian] Kelly and [special teams coach Mike] Elston agreed to let me kick with the help of [senior kicker David] Ruffer, was just an awesome feeling,” Grieco said. “Everything that I worked for just paid off and getting all the high fives from all the teammates was very cool.”
Yet, his journey has not been easy, requiring lots of dedica­tion and hard work. In addition to achieving the grades needed to transfer to Notre Dame, Grieco has also had to balance practices with the rigors of the classroom.  
“I have had to be organized and disciplined during both weekdays and weekends,” he said. “You have to sacrifice a few nights of partying here and there, but it has been well worth it.”
Time management is not the only lesson Grieco will take away from his time as a member of the team, as he has learned many things from both his teammates and coaches.
“Coach Kelly preaches atten­tion to detail, discipline, both mental and physical toughness,” he said. “Those are great things that you can translate into your school work and after when you hopefully get a job.”
During the past two years hav­ing Kelly as a coach, Grieco said he realized Kelly’s ability to get the best out of his players is what makes him great. 
“I think he is a great guy,” Grieco said. “He demands the most out of us and he pulls the most out of us. This team will definitely win a championship in the next few years and I really believe that.”
As his time as a player and a student at Notre Dame winds down, Grieco, a political science and sociology double major, is hoping to stay involved in sports, but from a different angle.
“After this year, I think I want to try to get into sports manage­ment,” he said. “I want to be an agent or work for the front office of a professional athletics team.”
Reflecting on his journey, Grie­co said he has no regrets.
“The path was great and ev­erything has worked in my favor, which I’m very thankful for,” he said. “Being able to play even that one play was awesome. When you are on the practice field and in the Stadium you can see Touchdown Jesus and the Dome, it just reminds you what you are playing for and working for.”
Contact Peter Steiner at 	psteiner@nd.edu


COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer
Senior kicker MIke Grieco attempts an extra point during Notre Dame’s 59-33 victory over Air Force on Oct. 8. Grieco made the extra point, the first attempt of his career.


The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

Head-to-Head

IRISH OFFENSIVE     COACHING
Irish coach Brian Kelly and offensive coordinator Charley Molnar should have no problem out-smarting overmatched Ea­gles coach Frank Spaziani and his staff Saturday.
Notre Dame’s bread and but­ter for most of the season has been its rushing attack, and Gray and Wood should be able to set the tone behind their coaches’ early calls.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

IRISH RUSHING
Notre Dame has found a groove offensively this season behind the efforts of senior running back Jonas Gray and junior running back Cierre Wood, who  could become the first tandem in Irish history to record 1,000-yard rushing campaigns in the same season. Wood needs 93 yards to reach 1,000, while Gray needs 270 in the final three games, including the bowl game.
Boston College’s rush defense ranks 62nd in the nation, and should be manhandled by the cohesive Irish front. The rose among thorns on the Eagle de­fense is junior linebacker Luke Kuechly, who leads the NCAA by a wide margin with 168 tack­les this season.
If the Irish are able to estab­lish the running game early, which they should have no prob­lem doing, the offense should click throughout the game.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

IRISH PASSING
The Irish face the No. 84 pass defense this week, so sopho­more quarterback Tommy Rees should have no problem finding Notre Dame’s playmakers early and often.
Rees had his most efficient outing of the season, completing 30-of-38 passes for 296 yards and touchdown passes to senior receiver Michael Floyd and ju­nior tight end Tyler Eifert.
While Rees has had his fair share of ups-and-downs in 2011, he should experience more of the former and not the latter against a putrid Eagle de­fense.
Notre Dame did not allow a sack for five consecutive games before Maryland sacked Rees three times last weekend.
Aided by a powerful running game and strong pass blocking, Rees should roll in his first ca­reer matchup against Boston College. There’s a good chance Floyd will add to his school-re­cord career touchdown total in this one.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

Notre Dame Offense

	7	TJ Jones	So.
	81	John Goodman	Sr.

WR

	9	Robby Toma	Jr.
	7	TJ Jones	So.

WR

	70	Zack Martin	Jr.
	72 	Nick Martin	Fr.

LT

	20	Cierre Wood	Jr.
	25 	Jonas Gray	Sr.

RB

	66	Chris Watt	Jr.
	51	Bruce Heggie	So.

LG

	11	Tommy Rees                 So.
	10	Dayne Crist	Sr.

QB

	57	Mike Golic Jr.	Sr.
	76	Andrew Nuss	Sr.

C

	78 	Trevor Robinson	Sr.
	65	Conor Hanratty	Fr.

RG

	75	Taylor Dever	Sr.
	74 	Christian Lombard	So.

RT

IRISH SCHEDULE
Sept. 3	South Florida
	(L, 23–20)
Sept. 10	@ Michigan
	(L, 35-31)
Sept. 17	Michigan St.
	(W, 31-13)
Sept. 24	@ Pittsburgh			(W, 15-12)
Oct. 1	@ Purdue
	(W, 38-10)
Oct. 8	Air Force
	(W. 59-33)
Oct. 22	USC
	(L, 31-17)
Oct. 29	Navy
	(W, 56-14)
Nov. 5	@ Wake Forest
	(W, 24-17)
Nov. 12	Maryland
	(W, 45-21)
Nov. 19	Boston College
Nov. 26	@ Stanford

TE

	80	Tyler Eifert	Jr.
	18	Ben Koyack	Fr.

IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS
The difference between Notre Dame’s special teams in Septem­ber and November is light and day.
Senior kicker David Ruffer has been much more consistent lately, which includes a converted 52-yard field goal in the 45-21 win over Maryland last Saturday.
Freshman running back George Atkinson has already returned two kickoffs for touchdowns in 2011, and a third against Boston College is not too far-fetched. His explosiveness has added another dimension to the Irish special teams.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

WR

	3	Michael Floyd	Sr.
	87	Daniel Smith	So.

Notre Dame Defense

	12	Robert Blanton	Sr.
	23	Lo Wood	So.

CB

Notre Dame Specialists

	45	Darius Fleming	Sr.
	46	Steve Filer	Sr.

OLB

	22	Harrison Smith	Sr.
	15	Dan McCarthy	Sr.

S

	97 	David Ruffer	Sr.

PK

	90	Ethan Johnson	Sr.
	19	Aaron Lynch	Fr.

DE

ILB

	48	Dan Fox	Jr.
	44	Carlo Calabrese	Jr.

	35	Ben Turk	Jr.

P

NG

	9	Louis Nix	So.
	98	Sean Cwynar	Sr.

LS

	50	Ryan Kavanagh	Sr.	   60		Jordan Cowart	Jr.

ILB

	5	Manti Te’o	Jr.
	54	Anthony McDonald	Sr.

DE

	7	Stephon Tuitt	Fr.
	50	Chase Hounshell	Fr.

	81	John Goodman	Sr.
	3	Michael Floyd	Sr.

PR

	55	Prince Shembo	So.
	56	Troy Niklas	Fr.

OLB

	26	Jamoris Slaughter	Sr.
	17	Zeke Motta	Jr.

S

	34	George Atkinson	Fr.		28	Austin Collinsworth	So.

KR

	4	Gary Gray	Sr.
	2	Bennett Jackson	So.

CB

KO

	27	Kyle Brindza	Fr.

Predictions 

Eric Prister
Senior Sports Writer
Last senior day, the Irish faced a ranked Utah squad which was supposed to make easy work of an underachieving Notre Dame team. But the seniors had a different idea.
This year, Notre Dame is the ranked team on senior day, and they should make easy work of a struggling Boston College squad.
But this is a rivalry game. No matter how much Notre Dame students hate it, the Ea­gles are Notre Dame’s rival, and anything can happen in a game with pride on the line.
Senior wide receiver Michael Floyd will play well, the Irish will run the football with Jonas Gray and Cierre Wood, they will stop the run, and Notre Dame will win the game. Just don’t expect it to be quite as much of a blowout as the teams’ respective talent levels suggest.
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28, Boston College 24

Allan Joseph
Sports Editor
My eyes really hurt.
Now, I can’t actually tell wheth­er that’s just from working on this massive special section for so long or from looking at just how bad this Boston College squad is. I mean, I knew they weren’t going to be par­ticularly good, but 112th in the coun­try in total offense? That’s abysmal. 
So expect this game to be a total laugher. From the first senior to step on the field with his parents to the last strains of the Alma Mater, Notre Dame will have nothing to worry about except celebrating the careers of these seniors. In fact, I’m pretty confident the halftime marshmallow fight will be the most competitive thing we watch all day. For two straight years, seniors will leave their last home game happy.
In short, Saturday will be easy on the eyes.
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 56, Boston College 10

Douglas Farmer
Editor-in-Chief
Dear Eric (to my right),
I know you grew up in South Bend and graduated with a degree in something last year. I know you are now a know-it-all graduate stu­dent, and I know you’re convinced I’m an idiot.
But news flash: It’s not a rivalry if your students never travel en masse to the away games, if your coach doesn’t admit to in the week ahead, and if you hold the opponent to less than 50 yards rushing two years in a row.
Yes, look for the Eagles to have more penalty yards than rushing yards Saturday. And look for Notre Dame to pay homage to its 38 seniors with 38 points, hopeful­ly with a touchdown thrown from senior quarterback Matt Mulvey to senior receiver Deion Walker.
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Boston College 0




BC PASSING
To say Boston College has issues throwing the football would be an understatement.
Though sophomore quarter­back Chase Rettig has improved since the Irish faced him in his first career appearance in 2010. This season, he has completed 53.1 percent of his passes for a measly 158.8 yards per contest, to go with nine touchdowns and nine interceptions.
The Irish secondary has been mostly consistent this season. Senior cornerback Gary Gray has performed much better since the miscues in the early weeks of the season that cost Notre Dame dearly.
Sophomore Bobby Swigert leads Boston College with 35 receptions on the season and junior Colin Larmond, Jr. leads the team with 500 yards and three touchdowns.
Irish senior defensive end Ethan Johnson returned to ac­tion last week after an ankle injury held him out for over a month. Though he is not at full strength, his return will keep freshmen Aaron Lynch and Stephon Tuitt fresher on pass rushes.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

BC RUSHING
The Eagles rank 81st in the country on the ground, which compares favorably to its 106th-ranked passing attack.
Sophomores Rolandan Finch and Andre Williams receive most of the calls on the ground from offensive coordinator Kev­in Rogers, who served in the same capacity at Notre Dame under former Irish coach Bob Davie.
Notre Dame’s rush defense has been stellar this season, and this weekend should be no different, especially with the unit ignited by the emotions of Senior Day. Irish opponents have scored only seven touch­downs, which pales in compari­son to the 23 Notre Dame has recorded.
The defense has been oppor­tunistic at times throughout the season, the most notable play of which came in the 24-17 win at Wake Forest on Nov. 5, when se­niors Kapron Lewis-Moore and Darius Fleming forced a fumble while the Deacons were about to tie the game.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

BC OFFENSIVE COACHING
Boston College has an anemic offense that ranks 112th out of 120 FBS teams in total offense.
Irish defensive coordinator Bob Diaco’s attack flummoxed the Eagles in 2010, and the Irish are a much more talented unit now than 13 months ago.
Boston College will need its most complete offensive perfor­mance of 2011 if it has a chance to pull off the upset of Notre Dame. The Eagles once brought their A-game against the Irish each year, but that was under previous coaching regimes.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

Boston College Defense

	4	Donnie Fletcher                              Sr.
	5	Al Louis-Jean, Jr.              	   Fr.

CB

	37	Hampton Hughes	Jr.
	19	Sean Sylvia                      R-Fr.

S

	49	Steele Divitto               So.
	35	Andre Lawrence                So.

OLB

	56	Max Holloway	  Jr.
	33	Dan Williams	  Sr.

DE

DT

	95	Dominic Appiah        R-Fr.
	97	Conor O’Neal	  Jr.	

MLB

	40	Luke Kuechly	Jr.
	50	Will Thompson	Sr. 

DT

	98	Max Ricci	Fr.
	92	Dillon Quinn	 Jr.

DE

	91	Kasim Edebali	So.
	99	Brian Mihalik	Fr.

BC SCHEDULE
Sept. 3	Northwestern
	(L, 24-17)
Sept. 10	@ UCF
	(L, 30-3)
Sept. 17 Duke
	(L, 20-19)
Sept. 24	Massachusetts
	(W, 45-17)
Oct. 1	Wake Forest
	(L, 27-19)
Oct. 8	@ Clemson
	(L, 36-14)
Oct. 22	@ Virginia Tech
	(L, 30-14)
Oct. 29	@ Maryland
	(W, 28-17)
Nov. 3	Florida State
	(L, 38-7))
Nov. 12	North Carolina State
	(W, 14-10)
Nov. 19	@ Notre Dame
Nov. 25	@ Miami

	9	Dominique Williams R-Fr.		23	Jim Noel	 Jr.

S

OLB

	34	Sean Duggan	Fr.
	25	Josh Keyes	Fr.

BC SPECIAL TEAMS
Sophomore kicker Nate Freese is 9-of-15 on field goals this sea­son and only 2-of-5 from 30-39 yards. His long of the year is 52 yards, so the inconsistent kicker does have some power.
Senior Ryan Quigley’s punt average of 37.9 yards per game is subpar, as only four of his 54 punts have traveled 50-plus yards.
Boston College has little explosiveness on the kick return and punt return units. Freshman Spiffy Evans has averaged 21.4 yards per kick return, with a long of 32 yards, while sophomore Bobby Swigert has returned seven punts for an average of five yards per return.
EDGE: NOTRE DAME

	21	Manny Asprilla	Fr.
	29	James McCaffery             R-Fr.

CB

Boston College Offense

WR 

	83	Alex Amidon	So.
	14	Johnathan Coleman	So.

	81	Chris Pantale	Jr.
	87	Lars Anderson	Sr.

TE

Boston College Specialists

RT

	77 	Emmett Cleary	Jr.
   67		Seth Betancourt              R-Fr.

	85	Nate Freese	So.

PK

	62	Ian White	So.
	64	Harris Williams               R-Fr.

RG

P

	46	Ryan Quigley	Sr.

	69	Mark Spinney	Sr.
	59	Andy Galik                        R-Fr.

QB

C

	11	Chase Rettig	So.
	15	Dave Shinskie	  Jr.

	57	Sean Flaherty	Jr.
	

LS

LG

	76	Bobby Vardaro           R-Fr.
	60	Bryan Davis	So.

RB

	28	Rolandan Finch	So.
	44	Andre Williams	 So.

	10	Bobby Swigert	So.

PR

	73	John Wetzel	Jr.
	70	Aaron Kramer                 R-Fr.

LT

KR

	7	Spiffy Evans	Fr.

	1	Colin Larmond, Jr.	Jr.
	30	Donte Elliott	Jr.

WR

KO

	85	Nate Freese	So.

WR 

	10	Bobby Swigert	So.
	7	Spiffy Evans	 Fr.

 


Andrew Owens
Associate Sports Editor
When I was scanning the list of se­niors set to play their final game at Notre Dame Stadium, what struck me was how quickly the past four years have elapsed.
This class made a commitment to Notre Dame following the worst sea­son in school history and, while  the 28-20 record is not what they had in mind when they debuted in 2008, they have set the program up for success in the very near future.
Boston College brings its best when playing Notre Dame in this annual matchup (don’t call it a rivalry, because it’s not), but the Eagles are no match for the Irish this year. Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray will control the game and get closer to 1,000-yard seasons, which would be the first time two players have accomplished that feat at Notre Dame.
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42, Boston College 10

Chris Masoud
Assistant Managing Editor
This one could get out of hand. Fast. Notre Dame is riding a three-game win streak for the second time this season, and its last five games of the season are strikingly similar to the five before. The Irish crushed an overhyped and over­powered Air Force team en route to its fourth consecutive win Oct. 8, setting up a crucial matchup with a Pac 12 foe in USC.
While dismantling a three-win Eagles team on Senior Day will be slightly less satisfying than upsetting No. 14 Utah, sending off the seniors with a win is all that matters. And after notching its second fourth-straight win, Notre Dame will head to Palo Alto for its second showdown with a Pac 12 rival: Stanford. But this time, luck will be on Notre Dame’s side. Wait…
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 48, Boston College 10



Ryan Kavanagh


Walk-on earns his way to two starting roles


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer
Senior holder Ryan Kavanagh holds the ball for a kick during Notre Dame’s 45-21 win over Maryland on Nov. 12

By JONATHAN WARREN
Sports Writer
Very few players can say they earned a starting position on Notre Dame’s football team. Even fewer players can say they earned two.
But senior walk-on Ryan Ka­vanagh is both the starting kick holder and long snapper this season. Kavanagh has been long-snapping since the fifth grade and is listed as a long snapper in the program, but started first for the Irish as a kick holder against Purdue in 2010. 
“You really can’t replicate the speed and the nerves in practice,” Kavanagh said of his first start. “It was pretty surreal. You try to block as much of it out as you can, but at the same time you want to try to soak it in and enjoy the time you have out on the field.”
Kavanagh’s opportunity to hold kicks was due largely to the coaching turnover in 2009. When Irish coach Brian Kelly took the reigns, the team had no incum­bent kick holder. Kavanagh saw a chance to start and taught him­self how to hold kicks.
“The old coaching staff would have never considered me as a holder,” Kavanagh said. “The change provided me a unique op­portunity to get a clean slate and get on the field.”
Kavanagh held kicks for the en­tire 2010 season and contributed to David Ruffer’s 23 consecutive made field goals — the longest streak in school history. Ruffer and Kavanagh have a close rela­tionship that helps them succeed on the field, Kavanagh said.
“We have that kicker-holder relationship,” Kavanagh said. “We have a pretty loose relation­ship. I think it helps build a trust factor between the two of us in terms of kicking. I’m starting to get that way with [junior punter Ben Turk] now that I’m snapping to him.”
Kavanagh earned the nod as starting long snapper for punts during this season’s game against Purdue, when junior long snapper Jordan Cowart was in­jured. He has held the position ever since.
“Doing whatever I can to help the team motivates me,” Kava­nagh said. “I’ve been able to stay locked in, knowing that I can be out on the field at any minute. You just have to be ready to help the team at any time.”
As a senior, Kavanagh’s leader­ship role on the team has expand­ed. He said he hopes his prepara­tion motivates younger players.
“I just try to be a leader for some of the younger guys, to be someone they can look up to,” Ka­vanagh said. 
 A civil engineering major, Kavanagh has utilized his hard­working attitude in the classroom as well. Managing time with a strenuous course load has been Kavanagh’s greatest challenge, and he hopes to work in the oil industry after graduation.
“It’s been difficult,” Kavanagh said. “It’s taken a lot of my time, but it’s always been a focus of mine to maintain my grades. It’s hard to maintain a balance between doing your work, being committed to football and trying to hang out with friends.”
Despite the workload associ­ated with being a football player and a full-time student, Kava­nagh has cherished his time on campus.
“Its more than I could have ever dreamed for coming here, and I’m just thankful for it,” Ka­vanagh said. “I’ve made a lot of memories and have a great group of friends.”
Many of those friends are fel­low walk-ons, members of the Walk-on Players Union Nation (WOPU) who share in each other’s struggles and accomplishments.
“We stick together,” Kavanagh said. “We’ve all been through similar experiences and have a good time together. We take pride in the work that we do. Anytime a guy can get on the field, it’s a big deal. We’re all here because we love Notre Dame.”
A lifetime Notre Dame fan, Ka­vanagh will play his last game in Notre Dame Stadium on Satur­day. After defeating the odds by being taken off the waitlist and earning his way on the team as a walk-on, Kavanagh will start at two positions against Boston Col­lege.
“It’ll be pretty emotional,” Ka­vanagh said. “I never thought I would be here in the first place. I can still remember coming out of the tunnel in that very first spring game and setting foot on the field. Knowing it will come to an end probably won’t hit me un­til I’m walking out of the locker room, but I’m just going to try to go out with a win and do what I can.”
Contact Jonathan Warren at 		jwarren3@nd.edu



Ethan Johnson

Johnson leads defensive line

Senior-year injury doesn’t stop defensive end from serving as mentor to those around him


By ANDREW OWENS
Associate Sports Editor
He played in each of the first 43 games of his career, but early in his senior campaign defensive end Ethan Johnson hit a roadblock and missed four consecutive contests due to an ankle injury.
As a senior leader and rock on the defense, Johnson kept the issue in perspective while try­ing to get back on the field.
“[Missing the four games] was rough,” he said. “Having not missed any games due to injury up un­til this point I didn’t think or want it to be this year. If I could choose a year it prob­ably wouldn’t be my senior year to be injured. But you don’t get that choice. Things happen and it’s a part of the game. It made me re­alize what gameday is like, just not playing.”
Instead of participating in his regular routine and prepar­ing for Saturdays, Johnson was forced to trade time with coach­es and players for time with the training staff.
“I had never been injured be­fore like this, so I really didn’t know how fast I’d bounce back or how fast I could heal,” he said. “Our trainers told me what was expected for the injury, so I just took it a day at a time. I really just didn’t know. You can be hopeful you’ll be back sooner than expected, but if you don’t feel good, then you don’t. There’s no reason to come back early and reinjure yourself. I didn’t want to do that, but at the same time I definitely pushed it.”
Johnson, Notre Dame’s ac­tive sacks leader with 12, re­turned to action Saturday in a 45-21 Irish victory over Mary­land. Midway through the first quarter, Johnson worked his way around a Terrapin offen­sive lineman and stuffed full­back Tyler Cierski. While it was the only play a limited Johnson made in his return, it still felt good, he said.
“It was a nice play,” Johnson said. “The left tackle is a good player, just looking at him be­fore the game I thought he was the best lineman. We thought he was their best line­man, so it was good to make a play against him. I definitely wish I had driv­en [the fullback back more].
Not being able to par­ticipate in the game he loves with the team­mates he loves has given John­son a deeper appreciation for the opportunity to play at Notre Dame, he said.
“It felt good to be back out there and I had a lot of fun and it was great to be out there with the guys,” he said. “I really missed that — running out there for the first drive of the game and I’m never go­ing to take that for granted. I feel like I nev­er did take that for granted. It’s a very special place to play here and I’ve really enjoyed it here.”
Passing it on
Johnson, who has played un­der two coaching staffs and has transitioned from a 3-4 base de­fense to a 4-3 before ultimately returning to the 3-4, has played a key role as a mentor to fresh­man defensive ends Stephon Tu­itt and Aaron Lynch, two play­ers who were called into duty when Johnson was injured. His return also eases the burden on the rest of the defensive line, Irish defensive coordinator Bob Diaco said.
“It’s just great to have him back,” Diaco said. “He’s a fun­damental technician. We got so many reps under his belt on the techniques that play within our defense and it’s nice then the other guys can have opportuni­ties to cut it loose. They’re not having to play three quarters or the whole game. They can take and pick their moments.”
Irish coach Brian Kelly said Johnson has been key in helping the underclassmen buy into the second-year coach’s plan.
“All of our seniors have had an impact in the direction and expectations,” Kelly said. “When I say direction, [I mean] my voice, and how we want to do things. Certainly [Johnson] had an influence in making sure the program continues to grow in what­ever we put in front of him.”
Senior de­fensive tackle Sean Cwynar said Johnson is a positive influ­ence on the en­tire defensive line, not just freshmen.
“Coming in with Ethan — he’s a great player and one of the things he brings to the table is all the experience he’s shown on the field,” Cwynar said. “He’s always there trying to help the freshmen out and he’s always trying to help me in a certain area, so I think Ethan is one of the main leaders on the defensive line. He means a lot to us.”
Junior linebacker Manti Te’o echoed Cwynar’s sentiments and said Johnson is committed to preparing the right way.
“He’s definitely the veteran of the defensive line,” Te’o said. “He knows what’s going on. He knows how to practice and he knows what we expect of him so from that standpoint he plays a very important role.”
Winding down
When Johnson runs out of the Notre Dame Stadium tun­nel Saturday for the final time, it will be a bittersweet moment, but he said he is anxious to move on to new opportunities.
“I feel like I’m going to miss this place but at the same time, I’m ready to be finished,” Johnson said. “It’s been a long road. It’s pretty tough here aca­demically and football-wise too with all the coach­ing changes and I’ve made some great relationships here and it’s got to end eventually. I’ll be finished in December with all my credits. I’m just ready for whatever’s next and I’ve had a great time here and I’ll always remember how great it was.”
Even with the season and a collegiate career coming to a close, Johnson does not allow his mind to drift into endless what-if scenarios, but he did say what a potential best-case scenario would be.
“First pick of the [NFL] draft,” Johnson said with a laugh. “I really haven’t put much thought into that — especially since I was injured … You work so hard for your senior year and I really haven’t thought about it and won’t think about it until the end of the year.
“I would love to play in the NFL and the higher the better, but I haven’t thought about it. If I get to go play, that would be awesome, if I don’t get picked up, then I don’t get picked up. That’s life.”
Johnson said he does not know what his personal mark on the program is, but the se­nior class is trying to complete a strong finish to the season and pave the way for future suc­cess at Notre Dame.
“Other peo­ple can de­fine [my lega­cy],” he said. “Hopefully I had a posi­tive impact on this place and I had a lot of fun. I feel like I’ve done my best while I was here.
“I feel like I just want to finish strong and finish the way we did last year. I don’t see any reason why we shouldn’t be able to do that. All the teams were going to play are good teams and battle-tested teams, even if their records don’t show it. We know we’re going to get a team’s best, especially Boston College.”
Contact Andrew Owens at 		aowens2@nd.edu

“If I could choose a year it probably wouldn’t be my senior year to be injured. But you don’t get that choice.”
Ethan Johnson
senior defensive end

“It’s a very special place to play here and I’ve really enjoyed it here.”
Ethan Johnson
senior defensive end

PAT COVENEY/The Observer
Senior defensive end Ethan Johnson sings the Alma Mater after Notre Dame’s 31-13 victory over Michigan State on Sept. 17.


“Hopefully I had a positive impact on this place and I had a lot of fun.”
Ethan Johnson
senior defensive end

NICOLE TOCZAUER/The Observer

Senior defensive end Ethan Johnson makes a tackle during Notre Dame’s 23-20 loss to South Florida on Sept. 3. Johnson made four tackles during the season-opening loss.

Nick Lezynski

Walk-on hopes to use football to enter coaching


By MOLLY SAMMON
Sports Writer
Just playing football for Notre Dame is not enough for walk-on defensive back Nick Lezynski. The graduate student has always had his sights set on a higher position on the field. After he leaves, Lezyn­ski wants to trade in his helmet for a headset and become a coach.
“I’ve always had the itch to coach. Obviously the past four years has made that interest more keen and makes me want to come back and pursue what my dream has always been,” Lezynski said. “I loved playing sports, I’ve always had that coaches mindset, and I’ve always thought that I’d be a better coach than I’d be a player.”
Lezynski graduated from Notre Dame in May 2011 with an under­graduate degree in marketing, but has stayed on the team for his fourth year of eligibility while pur­suing a theology degree. Lezynski, a Newtown, Penn., native, has re­cently looked into how to make the transition from a player to a coach.
“I’d probably become a grad as­sistant at a college. I would be a part time grad student,” Lezynski said. “Basically your job is on the football staff. That would be one of the things that I want to look into, and I’ve been searching that stuff for a while now.”
Starting at the lower ranks and climbing up is something that Lezynski has practiced as a walk-on, competing for playing time against scholarship players.
“Basically in any profession, you’ll really have to work your way up the ranks,” Lezynski said. “So being here, and especially be­ing a walk-on, you start from the bottom and earn your way up. It’s kind of a familiar path. I’m hop­ing that can help me. There are a lot of transferable skills for what­ever career in the sports industry I choose.”
Lezynski has played for the Irish under two different head coaches, and their respective staffs have provided lessons and examples for him to use as he builds his career. 
“In the past four years, I’ve learned a lot of general lessons that will stick with me for a while,” Lezynski said. “I’ve learned how to do things and how not to do things. I think that definitely I aspire to be at that level one day, to be con­sidered in those ranks and be an elite college coach. There are good examples and bad examples I’ve seen.”  
Lezynski said that as he climbs the ranks in the coaching side of the game, he would like to eventu­ally return to the sidelines of Notre Dame Stadium. 
“I feel like a coach at Notre Dame is a person that can galva­nize an entire community, the en­tire Notre Dame nation, and that kind of excites me,” Lezynski said.
As the son of two graduates, both of whom were Notre Dame athletes, it was only natural for Lezynski to arrive in South Bend. His mother was a monogram winner, and his father was both a boxer and a wrestler at Notre Dame. His older sister danced on the pom squad for the Irish, and his brother Blaise is a freshman on the baseball team. Lezynski’s youngest brother also has aspira­tions to attend Notre Dame. 
“My brothers and sister and I always wanted it,” Lezynski said. “Seeing the games when I was lit­tle, it just made the mystique even greater to me, and I knew the only way I could do it was through get­ting good grades.” 
From walking on upon arriving at Notre Dame to receiving playing time in the fourth quarter of Notre Dame’s one-touchdown win over Pittsburgh in 2010, Lezynski’s ca­reer has been embodied by a con­stant effort to improve.
“When you first walk on the team, you’re at the bottom of the totem pole,” Lezynski said. “When I first walked on, all I wanted to do was make the team. It’s never worn off, but at the same time, I’ve never been content with my role on the team. [I’m trying] to im­prove [my role] and to get on the field.”
His leadership and past presi­dency of the Walk-On Players Union (WOPU) has given him some experience in team lead­ership for coaching. Lezynski is now the President Emeritus of the union, he said.
“To be honest, you don’t envision being a walk on, you envision win­ning Heisman Trophies and being an all-American,” Lezynski said. “I feel like through the trials and tribulations I’ve gone through as a walk on, with the brotherhood that I have with all the other walk-ons, that we’re all in this together. We always play as a team, we play for Our Lady and we’ve always got each other to lean on.”
A large network of people have molded the player and prospec­tive coach Lezynski came to be throughout his years as a member of the Notre Dame football team.
“It’s the support from my fam­ily, my girlfriend — an ‘11 ND cheerleader — and my team­mates, especially the WOPU guys. They’re the ones that have kept me through this the whole time,” Lezynski said.
Lezynski cites his parents as driving forces in helping him be­come a leader on the team and developing the qualities he will need down the road in coaching positions.
“My parents have always en­couraged us to be leaders,” Lezyn­ski said. “I have this sign above my door that says, ‘What is popular is not always right, what is right is not always popular,’ so I always wanted to do the right thing, en­courage people and have a voice. I like to think I have leadership qualities.” 
Lezynski hopes his leadership will be the biggest legacy he leaves at Notre Dame, at least while as a player. 
“I’m not the most talented guy, or the biggest guy, but I’d like to think that I’ve been able to make an impact here,” Lezynski said. “That’s something I hope to share with other people around me.”
Contact Molly Sammon at 		msammon@nd.edu

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer
Fifth-year defensive back Nick Lezynski takes the field before Notre Dame’s 28-24 loss to Michigan on Sept. 11, 2010.

Dennis Mahoney

Football is just another challenge for future law student


“It’s been good. You know, it’s been tough at times. But it’s always been something I wanted to do.”
Dennis Mahoney
senior offensive lineman

PAT COVENEY/The Observer
Senior offensive lineman Dennis Mahoney, right, takes the field for warmups before Notre Dame’s 23-12 victory over Purdue on Sept. 4, 2010.

By ADRIANA PRATT
Assistant Managing Editor
A history major focused on getting into law school and completing a senior thesis about crusades sounds like a busy student. Add a 40-hour-a-week time commitment to the Notre Dame football team, and you’ll have senior offen­sive lineman Dennis Mahoney.
“It’s tough. I mean, you have to be able to really manage your time well,” Mahoney said. “But once you get into your routine, I think it’s not too hard to handle.”
The former Dillon Hall resi­dent began playing football in seventh grade. He looked to his older brother Patrick, a 2007 Notre Dame graduate, for the inspiration to play in college. 
“He tried [walking on],” Ma­honey said. “He tore his Achil­les …  so that was kind of it. But he always got me into foot­ball.”
The Maryland native said his family, and especially Pat­rick, were ecstatic when they found out Mahoney made the team. 
His parents have made the trek from Baltimore to South Bend for most of the Irish home games. Seeing them and other fans line the team’s path to the Stadium on game days is one of his favorite college memories, Mahoney said.
“It’s just a good tradition,” Mahoney said.  “There’s a lot of people and fans. My fam­ily’s usually there.”
Another highlight of Ma­honey’s football career in­cludes his block against Air Force during the Oct. 8 Irish victory at home. The game was Mahoney’s first chance to see time on the field since he joined the team.
“The first time I got in, [sophomore quarterback An­drew] Hendrix was in and he had a long run,” Mahoney said. “I made a block and I got up and looked and he was running downfield and it was pretty, pretty exciting.”
Mahoney joined the Irish af­ter completing the team’s Au­gust 2008 training camp be­fore his freshman year. After he found out he was admitted early to Notre Dame, his high school coach helped him compile a highlight film to send the Irish coaches, who then in­vited him to train with the team.
“[The coaches] said, ‘Yeah, come for camp and if you get through camp, then you can stay on the team throughout the fall and into spring,” Mahoney said.
After four years on the Irish offensive line, Mahoney is looking forward to getting back 40 hours in his week, but unsure what he’ll do with it. As a football player, his schedule often involves 8 a.m. practices followed by morn­ing classes, meetings, another practice, team dinner then homework.  
“This takes up your time,” he said. “[No longer playing] will be weird because I’ve never experienced it, so I don’t know.”
Two things he will take away from his time on the line are a group of close friends and a tough work ethic.
“I think you just learn, you know, what it takes — how hard you have to work,” Ma­honey said.
He looks to his fellow walk-ons senior linebacker Sean Oxley and senior cor­nerback Nick Lezynski for both guid­ance and friendship.
“It’s good. It’s a good group of friends who have this unique as­pect,” Ma­honey said.
For now, Mahoney said he is focused on finishing the season and preparing for law school. He is looking at both Notre Dame and George­town’s law programs and is also considering schools close to his Baltimore home.
Spending time on the Notre Dame football team has been both a challenging and re­warding experience, he said.
“It’s been good,” Mahoney said. “You know, it’s been tough at times. But it’s always been something I wanted to do.”
Contact Adriana Pratt at 		apratt@nd.edu

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

ndsmcobserver.com | page 21

Friday, November 18, 2011

Kapron Lewis-Moore

Lewis-Moore bolsters line


Lewis-Moore teaches freshmen after a knee injury sidelines him midway through 2011

By CHRIS MASOUD
Assistant Managing Editor
Editor’s Note: This article originally appeared in the Oct. 7 edition of The Observer.
The dream of donning the gold and blue, running out of the tun­nel and playing in Notre Dame Stadium usually begins at a very early age. Legendary games like the 1993 contest against No. 1 Florida State or the 1988 “Catho­lics vs. Convicts” battle against Miami foster the desire for an aspiring football player to lace up for the Irish.
But in Texas, the Big 12 reigns supreme, and for Irish senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore, landing at Notre Dame was less of a dream-come-true story than a dream dashed.
“Being a Texas kid, your dream schools are Texas, Okla­homa, Oklahoma State, [Texas] A&M — the Big 12. You kind of stay close to home,” Lewis-Moore said. “I was actually committed to Texas A&M my senior year in high school.”
A native of Weatherford, Tex­as, Lewis-Moore was recruited into the Aggie program by then-coach Dennis Franchione. But following Franchione’s resigna­tion and subsequent hiatus from college football, Lewis-Moore’s college football career took an abrupt 180-degree turn.
“After he resigned after [the Aggies] upset Texas that year, I was kind of in a fluster, didn’t know what I wanted to do,” he said. “I wanted to talk to my mom, who didn’t really have any idea how the recruiting process worked, so I de-committed from Texas A&M at the time, and that’s when I took some trips.”
Those trips included a recruit­ing visit to Colorado and, eventu­ally, Notre Dame.
“I came up here, visited, loved the school, loved the people, even though it was like negative 10 [degrees] outside with the sun shining,” Lewis-Moore said. ”I still had a lot of fun.”
Facing the prospects of harsh winters and a life away from home, Lewis-Moore’s path took another 180 when he re-com­mitted to Texas A&M. But after conversations with close family and friends, the recruit decided to take a leap of faith.
“My mom — she was happy for me — but at the same time challenged me to do something different with my life. She chal­lenged me to get out of my com­fort zone, and my mom being a schoolteacher, she had a real positive impact in my life. Aca­demics was always first and I feel like Notre Dame’s one of the best academic institutions in the country.”
It seems Mom knows best, as in his fourth year as a member of the Irish, Lewis-Moore has emerged as a pivotal player on a defense that has bolstered the Irish following a disappointing 0-2 start.
In addition to his contribution on the field, Lewis-Moore has accepted his mother’s chal­lenge both in the classroom and in the locker room. Irish defen­sive coordina­tor Bob Diaco hails the se­nior as one of the key mem­bers of the entire football organization.
“I would say that [Kapron] understands his place on the team as a leader and a starter,” Diaco said. “He doesn’t have any feel­ing of being threatened by any­one else. He understands how important he is to the organiza­tion and how much value he has in the organization.”
After redshirting during his freshman year, Lewis-Moore earned his first start against Michigan State in 2009 in what turned out to be a thrilling vic­tory for Notre Dame. Then-senior Kyle McCarthy intercepted a pass late in the fourth quarter, as the Irish defense came through to seal a 33-30 win.
“It was a lot of fun, but I was nervous too,” Lewis-Moore said. “Running out there, 81,000 peo­ple screaming, your mind’s going 100 miles an hour. I had a lot of fun, I enjoyed it and it’s some­thing I will never forget.”
While walking out of the tun­nel has become “old hat” for the senior, he admitted he still feels the goose bumps every time he walks onto the field. But in be­tween the whistles, Lewis-Moore has been playing with a renewed focus as part of a core defensive line that held Purdue to just 84 rushing yards in Notre Dame’s 38-10 victory last Saturday.
Lewis-Moore led the line with 16 unassisted tackles, four for a loss, and a forced fumble before sustaining a season-ending inju­ry against USC on Oct. 22.
“He’s 290-plus pounds, and he moves like a guy who is 245, 250 pounds,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “Quick feet plus his size give him the ability to do really good things.”
Lewis-Moore said he and Ethan Johnson, the two senior ends, have de­veloped a close friendship over the years, barring a minor set­back.
“Ethan’s a great guy, I love him,” Lewis-Moore said. “Except one year, when he changed his number to 90 when he was nine. We’ve always bonded, but he was always on the other side of the locker, I was right here. When he changed his number, that’s when we really started to [develop] a great bond.”
Lewis-Moore’s roommate and close friend, senior linebacker Darius Fleming said the senior is well-equipped to handle the load Saturday.
“Kap’s been a leader all year, he’s been doing an awesome job,” he said. “Kap will be fine in that role picking up for Ethan and just carrying that D-line. That’s one of my best friends. He’s a charac­ter. He’s funny. He’s a tough kid. No one dislikes Kap.”
That includes a talented duo of Irish freshmen in Aaron Lynch and Stephon Tuitt, who have slowly worked their way into the Irish rotation. Lewis-Moore has embraced the additional role of mentor for the rookies, whose development can be attributed in part to the unofficial coaching of the senior defensive end.
“He understands that these guys are going to help us be suc­cessful, so he’s doing everything that he can to help them with film study, with things on the field, off the field — just being that mentor for them,” Fleming said. “He’s not letting the fact that they’re battling for his posi­tion get into his head. He’s just being the leader that he is ... At times, I look up to him.”
Lewis-Moore credits the fresh­men for adapting quickly to the intensity of the college game, al­lowing him to take a less hands-on approach and letting the freshmen develop into their own style. 
“They came in and they re­sponded well,” he said. “It’s not so much teaching. You can explain running down the tunnel, being at Notre Dame — how awesome it is. You’re always under the mi­croscope, always on the big stage … Playing in big games, I think they kind of feel for themselves that this is a great institution.”
But the mentor admits he still has room for improvement be­fore his final year of eligibility in 2012. Diaco said he expects Lew­is-Moore’s continued progression to pay dividends this season and into the future.
“Tangibly, he’s going to get big­ger, faster, stronger. Cardiovas­cularly, he’s going to be able to play harder longer. He can play a lot harder longer than he could a year ago, and it’s only going to continue to improve. Mentally, he’ll continue to take his mental game to that next level of under­standing.”
A marketing major, Lewis-Moore hopes to put his degree to good use upon graduation. In the meantime, the senior looks to help out the defense in any way he can.
“I feel like we’re a great team, and starting off 0-2 is kind of frustrating,” Lewis-Moore said. “We’re so much better than what we’ve shown, but I think the last couple of weeks we’ve shown that we are a great team and we’ve got to take one game at a time.”
Despite the flip-flop regarding his decision to enroll at Notre Dame, Lewis-Moore said he nev­er regretted his decision, nor his mother’s advice, to suit up for the Irish.
“If I would have gone any­where else — there’s no place like Notre Dame to me. There’s no place that you can have such a great institution with great people … I’m blessed, I’m lucky and I’m very privileged to be playing football for this great in­stitution.”
Contact Chris Masoud at    cmasoud@nd.edu

“I would say that [Kapron] understands his place on the team as a leader and a starter. He doesn’t have any feeling of being threatened by anyone else.”
Bob Diaco
defensive coordinator

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer
Senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore runs after an opponent during Notre Dame’s 15-12 win over Pittsburgh on Sept. 24.


TOM YOUNG/The Observer

Senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore, left, chases Michigan State quarterback Kirk Cousins during Notre Dame’s 31-13 win over the Spartans on Sept. 17. Lewis-Moore recorded five tackles in the win.

Dan McCarthy

Safety follows in the footsteps of his older brother


By SARAH MERVOSH
Managing Editor
Many athletes say their team­mates become like brothers, but for senior safety Dan McCarthy, that bond was a bit more literal. 
For half his time at Notre Dame, McCarthy played with older brother Kyle, who was also a safety and currently plays for the Denver Broncos.
“He taught me more than I could thank him for,” Dan Mc­Carthy said. “He taught me things off the field, how to act, how to carry yourself and how to play the game the right way. He played with a lot of passion and heart. I try to model myself after that.” 
Dan said his brother and fam­ily influenced his decision to come to Notre Dame.
“Growing up being from an Irish Catholic family, I was al­ways a big Notre Dame fan, my whole family was,” he said.” [And] I thought it would be neat to follow my brother here.”
When Dan joined the team in 2008, it was the first time the brothers had the opportunity to play on the same team and Kyle McCarthy said he was excited to have his brother on board.
“I tried to help him out as much as possible when he got in but Danny didn’t really need much help,” Kyle McCarthy said. “He had the work ethic and has all the talent in the world. He was able to make a name for himself pretty quickly.”
Dan has seen playing time both as a safety and on special teams throughout his career and first saw action as a sopho­more at the season-opening Ne­vada game.
“I got a chance to run in there at safety,” he said. “That was definitely one of the best memo­ries, just finally, after watching for so long, getting the chance to get out there was truly amaz­ing.”
But both brothers said their favorite memory was running out of the tunnel for the first time together. 
“I’ll never forget, my brother pulled me up to the front and I ran behind him,” Dan said. “That was the first time I ran out but I was so excited I didn’t really remember it until I got to the end zone.”
Kyle agreed the memory was unforgettable.
“It’s definitely a feeling neither of us will ever forget,” he said. 
Dan has also contributed on kickoffs and kick returns, and occasionally sees time on punts and punt returns.
“Whatever’s the best way to help the team out is what I’m for,” he said. “Whatever I can contribute is what I’m looking to do.” 
Kyle said it has been reward­ing to watch his brother suc­ceed.
“I’m really proud of how far he’s come and the type of person he’s become,” he said.
But the bond between the Mc­Carthy brothers was not the only brotherhood Dan found when he joined the football team.  He said the football program has given him lifelong friends.
“You hang out with the guys over half the day and you really get to know each other and you adapt to each other … It’s just a great brotherhood,” he said. “The memories I’ve had are just amazing. The friends I’ve made here and the people I’ve met here, I’ll carry on lifelong friendships.”
Being on the football team has also taught Dan how to balance a busy schedule full of daily practices, classes, homework and a social life.
“It’s tough, definitely at a chal­lenging school like Notre Dame. I think football actually gets you on a nice program and you get used to a daily schedule,” he said. 
But there’s one trick to the balancing act that stands out to the younger McCarthy — time management. 
“That’s what my dad always preached and it really came into play when I got to college,” he said. 
Because he did not play his freshman year, McCarthy has one year of eligibility remain­ing and plans to apply for a fifth year. After graduation, however, the finance major plans to put his time management skills to use in the business world.
“I definitely want to get into the business world and I’ll ex­plore my opportunities there when it comes,” he said.
In the mean time, Dan Mc­Carthy will enjoy the remainder of the football season and the friendships he has made along the way.  
“Just the whole football expe­rience has been great and I’ve cherished every moment of it,” he said. “I’ll never forget it.”
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 		smervosh@nd.edu

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer
Senior safety Dan McCarthy runs with the ball after an interception during Notre Dame’s 2010 Blue-Gold spring game. Dan McCarthy is the younger brother of former Irish safety Kyle McCarthy.

Anthony McDonald

Son of USC alumnus has no regrets choosing Notre Dame


Observer File Photo
Senior linebacker Anthony McDonald makes a tackle during Notre Dame’s 33-17 victory over Miami on Dec. 22, 2010.

By VICKY JACOBSEN
Sports Writer
For many former USC players, watching a son choose to play for the Irish would be cause for deep shame. For senior linebacker An­thony McDonald’s father, Mike, Notre Dame was the lesser of two evils.
“I was being recruited by UCLA also, and [my father] said that if I would have gone there that he would have disowned me because USC just hates UCLA, but they respect Notre Dame,” McDonald said. “At first he wasn’t too happy with me being here, but he ended up telling me that he’s always re­spected Notre Dame. But he still gets a lot of [heat] from his bud­dies.”
Notre Dame and USC may be one of the nation’s most storied rivalries, but McDonald said his father’s choice of school has not caused any unpleasantness even though one of his roommates, se­nior center Mike Golic, Jr., is the son of one of Notre Dame’s most visible football alumni, Mike Gol­ic, Sr.
“[McDonald’s father and Mike Golic, Sr.] get along fine; they never really argue about it be­cause my dad knows when he comes out here it’s Notre Dame territory, so there’s not much he can say,” McDonald said. “I’m sure if it was the opposite, and [if] they were out at Southern Cal it would be a little different.”
One of McDonald’s other room­mates is senior quarterback Dayne Crist, a fellow California-native and former high school classmate.
“We actually played against each other in Pop Warner when we were eight years old, and then we were kind of the big guys on the teams, so we kind of knew each other ever since then,” Mc­Donald said. “We started going to school together, and we’ve been great friends ever since.”
While McDonald is very close with his teammates, especially those in his recruiting class, he did not limit his social circle to the football team.
“I still live with my roommate from freshman year,” McDonald said. “His name is Tomás Ken­ney. Freshman summer, Dayne and I were roommates because we were there for the summer and they put the football players together. Dayne and I found our roommates on Facebook and we were like ‘Oh God, how is this guy going to be?’ Me and my room­mate hit it off, and we’ve been best friends ever since, so I’ve had a great time with him and we still live together.”
McDonald said that his friend­ship with Kenney gave him a lot of respect for non-athletes.
“A lot of us football players talk about regular students: ‘They have so much free time, what are they doing with their lives here?’ But I’ve just been really impressed by how much work he puts into school. Sometimes he’ll get back later than me be­cause he’ll be studying all day, so just seeing his work ethic and how much he cares about school — he’s been a really influential person.”
Not every surprise was as posi­tive as his freshman roommate, namely South Bend winters.
“I remember the first day when it started snowing freshman year, I ran outside with a couple of the other guys from California and we were like, ‘Oh, this is so cool,’ because we’d never seen snow fall before … And then it snowed for six months straight,” McDonald said. “Freshman year I tore my ACL, so I had to crutch around in the snow. I remem­ber the first day after surgery I was crutching and I slipped and I thought, ‘Oh God, I’m going to have to put up with this for the next four years.’”
McDonald’s injuries did not end with the torn ACL. Dur­ing his sophomore year, he was blindsided by a member of the Washington special teams, leav­ing him concussed and unsure of which way to run. (The play became an instant You Tube hit when he got to his feet and took off for the wrong end zone.) Dur­ing his junior year, he was again limited by a knee injury.
“It’s hard having an injury.” McDonald said. “Any time you get injured, it’s hard to go through the process of sitting out, but I always think back to what my dad told me: ‘It’s a tough sport for tough players.’ If you’re not tough, you shouldn’t be playing this game, so you fight through it, you come back and you learn from your injuries and you get better.”
After sitting out all of his fresh­man year, McDonald has seen game action in each of the last three seasons. One of the high­lights of McDonald’s career came last season in the Sun Bowl, when he played most of the second half in place of an injured Manti Te’o.
“The Sun Bowl was a little dif­ferent because it was freezing,” McDonald said. “I came in after half and hadn’t been doing any­thing, so I was kind of cold and really stiff because I hadn’t been in the game, but I it was a great atmosphere and the fans that were there got everyone really energized.”
McDonald’s signature play came against Michigan State during his junior year.
“It was third-and-short and I ran and jumped over the pile and tackled the quarterback for no gain,” McDonald said. “They ended up converting the fourth down, but I don’t like to tell peo­ple that part.”
While there’s nothing like the adrenaline that comes on game day, McDonald said that he’ll most miss the camaraderie of his classmates after graduation.
“Our whole class is a really tight-knit group and we’ve been together for four years-plus now. Obviously we’re all going to be separated at some point,” Mc­Donald said. “I’m pretty sure I’ll keep in touch with most of the guys that I’m really close with, but it’s not going to be the same because we’re not going to see each other every day and be out there shedding blood, sweat and tears with each other every day.”
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at 		vjacobse@nd.edu

Matt Mulvey

‘Red Army’ leader earns fame due to sideline role


By SARAH MERVOSH
Managing Editor
He may not start on Satur­days, but he gets more camera time than most. 
When the Irish are on offense and the camera zooms in on Irish coach Brian Kelly, keep an eye out for senior walk-on quarterback Matt Mulvey — he’s hard to miss.
Wearing the signature red quarterback cap, Mulvey sticks close to Kelly during games and can be seen waving, tapping and gesturing as he sends in play signals each down.
“I feel more like a coach now and I’ve really fully dived into this role,” he said. “It has been such a treat to be more a part of the offense, to be more a part of the team and try to help out as much as I can.”
But it’s not an easy job. As the leader of the “Red Army,” Mul­vey is responsible for remem­bering over 300 signals and communicating them to the quarterback on the field dur­ing what is often a fast-paced offense.
“We practice it so much that it really is muscle memory and second nature to us,” he said. “I love when we’re moving fast because I know that we have to get on what my part of the job is and I have to stay mentally sharp.”
The Del Mar, Calif., native ar­rived at Notre Dame as a fresh­man with the opportunity to try out for the football team, but with no guarantees of success. On his first day of classes, Mul­vey was told he made the team.
“[I] went into the locker rooms for the first time and felt that sense of fraternity and felt that sense of team,” he said. “Coming out from San Diego, it’s coming a long way out here to South Bend. It was just nice to have 105 other guys, and it was just so much fun right off the bat.” 
Three years later, the walk-on has found himself a niche as the leader of the “Red Army” and stumbled upon a little bit of fame in the process. 
The “Red Army” began dur­ing Mulvey’s sophomore year as a sort of “quarterback fraterni­ty” named after the red jerseys quarterbacks wear in practice. The group has taken off since then, acquiring a bit of a fan club.   
“I think one of the funniest things was last year during Hal­loween when four girls dressed up like [us.] That was pretty funny,” Mulvey said. “And then one of my friends was me for Halloween that year too.”
Irish coach Brian Kelly said Mulvey created his own “cult and fan club with the red hat brigade.” 
“His impact is that, you know, he understands our offense very well,” Kelly said. “He’s part of our signaling crew, and he just has a great personality that fits in with what we’re do­ing on a day-to-day basis. We ask him to do a lot of prepara­tion during the week to help in all of our offensive play calling, and he’s done a great job.”
Part of that preparation in­cludes helping to think of new play signals. Mulvey, whose favorite signal is the awkward turtle hand motion, said he takes an entertainment ap­proach when coming up with signals. 
“We get them from movies. We get them from funny ges­tures, funny things,” he said. 
The position also allows Mul­vey to get to know his head coach on a personal level.  
“Me and coach Kelly have a really great relationship,” he said. “I’m the closest one to him every single game. We really do get to talk to each other a lot and get to know each other.” 
Mulvey, whose mother was in the first graduating class of women at Notre Dame, said his family will be in attendance for Saturday’s game against Bos­ton College. The walk-on said he would love the opportunity to switch roles and be the quar­terback on the field receiving the play signals. 
“To get out there and have a meaningful snap [would be the] culmination of my four years here,” he said. 
But Mulvey has always put the team’s success over his own. 
“Anything I can do to help the team, that’s absolutely what I’m going to do,” he said.
After graduation, Mulvey will bring his talents to investment banking and begin working for FT Partners. However, he hopes to leave the legacy of the Red Army with the football pro­gram. 
“I hope it’s something that sticks around for a while be­cause it does support that fra­ternity atmosphere and the team atmosphere,” he said. “That’s really what it’s about.”
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 		smervosh@nd.edu

TOM LA/The Observer
Senior quarterback Matt Mulvey signals in a play during Notre Dame’s 56-14 win over Navy on Oct. 29. Mulvey is the leader of the so-called “Red Army” of quarterbacks.

Brandon Newman

‘Trick Shot Mondays’ just one way Newman leaves mark


TOM LA/The Observer
Senior defensive lineman Brandon Newman lines up during spring practice. Newman is the driving force behind the popular ‘Trick Shot Monday’ videos found online.

By CONOR KELLY
Sports Writer
In 2007, when former Irish defensive coordinator Corwin Brown approached Brandon Newman about taking an unof­ficial visit to Notre Dame, the de­fensive tackle first balked at the idea.
“I said, ‘Coach, I don’t know if I’m going to be able to get to South Bend,’ Newman said. “Then he said, ‘You don’t think you can make it to Indiana?’ So of course I said, ‘Notre Dame’s in Indiana?’”
Given Newman’s uncertainty about Notre Dame’s geographic location, his commitment was a recruiting victory for the Irish, who beat out Stanford for the services of the 6-0, 300-pound defensive lineman from Pleasure Ridge Park High School in Louis­ville, Ky. While Newman can now point out South Bend on a map, his impact on Notre Dame and its football program can be seen in his leadership and mentorship of younger players, as well as his contributions to a close-knit locker room and stalwart play as a reserve lineman.
Newman has appeared in two games during his Notre Dame career, playing defensive tackle against Washington State in 2009 and against Navy in 2011.
Newman arrived on campus among the 2008 recruiting class headlined by names like Dayne Crist, Michael Floyd and Kyle Rudolph. In his first two years, Newman witnessed the tumul­tuous seasons of 2008 and 2009, during which the Irish posted disappointing six-loss records, testing the unity of his class.
“No matter who the coaches were, no matter who was in, even when all the freshmen were re­ally struggling when we first got here, we came together as a class and really stuck together,” New­man said. “We said we could all get through this together.”
Struggles for Newman came in the form of adjusting to col­lege life, being away from home and the grind of being a full-time football player. At times, New­man wondered if he had made the right choice.
“When I came in, I struggled a lot being away from home. I think the biggest challenge was just getting used to the football and the academics,” Newman, who boasted a 3.9 GPA in high school, said. “I wasn’t sure if this was the place for me, but all the older upperclassmen just told me to hang in there.”
The Stanford Hall resident cites veteran leaders like David Grimes, Maurice Crum, Jr. and Ian Williams for helping him ad­just to life and football at Notre Dame, a task he now feels obligat­ed to fulfill with the Irish’s young cohort of talented defensive line­men. That group includes fresh­men Aaron Lynch and Stephon Tuitt and sophomore Louis Nix.
“I feel that I’m one of the more vocal guys on the team,” New­man said. “We have a lot of young guys playing on the defen­sive line, so we’re making sure that their heads are in the game and their assignments are cor­rect. I think I’m seen as a leader just because I’m always there for any questions.”
Newman’s role in fostering locker room unity can be seen in Notre Dame’s most recent foray into social media, “Trick Shot Mondays,” a new tradition that is the brainchild of Newman and senior center Mike Golic, Jr. The weakly event features various Irish players shooting a ping-pong ball into a cup filled with water from all different angles and trajectories. Only when the shot is made does the team get to eat dinner. Newman, a Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) major, directs the filming of the attempts and posts the resulting videos on YouTube.
“They let Trick Shot Mondays be the baby of me and Mike Golic just because we’re both FTT ma­jors,” Newman said. “We know all about that stuff, what looks good on camera, what to say and what not to say. It’s been a lot of fun. We love the fans’ input, and getting a view of us outside the helmet is really cool.”
Though it looks as though Newman has a promising career ahead of him in television, he looks to continue playing football after this season. Newman plans on applying for a fifth year of eli­gibility at Notre Dame. If he does not return to the Irish, he plans on taking his last year of eligibil­ity to another school.
For now, Newman is intent on enjoying his time remaining with his teammates.
“These are some of my best friends here on the team and guys I know I’m going to be friends with the rest of my life,” Newman said. “We really take for granted being able to see each other on a day-to-day basis, like coming back after beating USC last year — it was five a.m. here, but we were so excited that we didn’t want to go to sleep. Those are some of my fondest memories.”
For a student that four years ago had barely heard of Notre Dame, Newman has made his mark on the campus and the team in ways that go far beyond the stat sheet — Trick Shot Mon­days are just the beginning.
Contact Conor Kelly at 		ckelly17@nd.edu

Andrew Nuss

Nuss plays important role as lineman, on special teams

By SAM GANS
Sports Writer
 When you take a look at 6-foot-5-inch, 303-lb. fifth-year senior guard Andrew Nuss, it’s easy to see a player who can take care of himself on the football field.
And yet, it was precisely the fear of injury that led to his fa­ther forbidding him to play the game at an early age.
“I only started playing foot­ball in my freshman year of high school,” Nuss said. “I wanted to play as a little kid but my dad just told me no, because he was afraid I was going to get hurt, so I stuck with baseball for the longest time. And then fresh­man year, [he let me] try out for the team. I thought I could be a quarterback but that didn’t work out so I played tight end and then sophomore year, I was the [var­sity] starting left tackle.”
It was a good thing Andrew’s dad allowed his son to play the sport, as he soon began to re­ceive numerous scholarship of­fers. The Ashburn, Va. native ul­timately went against the grain when he decided to join former Irish coach Charlie Weis at Notre Dame.
“Everyone in my high school usually goes to Virginia Tech,” Nuss said. “So for me, I could have gone there to hang out with my friends, but I wanted to do something different and when Notre Dame came and offered me, I checked it out and I fell in love with the place and I knew this could help me out in the long run past football in terms of the academics.”
But with the commitment to Weis came the difficult adjust­ment to his firing after the 2009 season. Nuss, however, made the transition smoothly.
“It was tough when Coach Weis left because he brought me in,” Nuss said. “You develop a re­lationship with that person and all the coaches around you. And so it was unfortunate, but it’s part of the business. We had to change it up and then Coach Kel­ly came in and he’s done a great job and we’ve responded well.”
Nuss performed well enough on the field in his fourth year at Notre Dame last season that Kel­ly offered him the opportunity to return to the Irish for his fifth and final year of eligibility. 
While senior Dayne Crist and sophomore Tommy Rees were in a highly-publicized battle dur­ing fall camp for the starting quarterback position, Nuss was engaged in a tough competition himself with junior Chris Watt for the starting left guard spot vacated by the graduated Chris Stewart. The first-stringer was not determined until less than two weeks before the opening game against South Florida, when Kelly named Watt the starter.
Despite the disappointment, Nuss, who has played a key role on special teams and in a rotat­ing spot on the offensive line this season, has maintained focus on helping the team in whatever ways possible.
“I came back with the mindset, ‘alright, this is your last opportu­nity ever’. So I just came out and played the best I could each day,” Nuss said. “Watt’s a great player, I’m not going to deny that. We’re both great players. But for me, [I try] to give him support and to do what the team needs. That’s what Coach Kelly instills in us, saying that it’s not about indi­vidualism, it’s about helping the team out and [my goal is] what­ever I can do to help the team out.”
With his football career soon to be complete, Nuss has thought about his future. The 2011 grad­uate with a degree in finance is currently in graduate school and wants to continue, but may need to take some time off before do­ing so.
“I want to do grad school, but I feel like I want to work first and get some experience and also save up so I can afford it, because my parents aren’t going to pay for it, so that’s something I have to do,” he said. “But I’ll probably do grad school after I work for a little bit.”
And while the end of football brings about a look toward the future, it also leads to reminisc­ing of the past. Big wins over USC and Miami during his time at Notre Dame — along with a trip to Hawaii for the Hawaii Bowl — have formed some of Nuss’ favor­ite memories. But what he will miss most is the bond between himself and his teammates.
“[I’ll miss] just being with the guys, to be honest,” Nuss said. “You do it for so long – and we’ve had seminars on how to transi­tion – but you do it so long, it’s just what you become accus­tomed to. What you do in life every day basically is just hang out with the guys, doing this, do­ing that. It’s like on a scheduled program. But now, when you’re out in the real world, it’s by your­self.”
Contact Sam Gans at              	sgans@nd.edu


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer
Senior guard Andrew Nuss runs onto the field during the Blue-Gold Game on April 16. Nuss has played multiple positions on the offensive line at Notre Dame.

Sean Oxley

Oxley cherishes role on WOPU Nation during playing career

By MIKE MONACO
Sports Writer
Many kids grow up watch­ing their favorite team play, and many of those kids dream of playing for that team one day. Only a fraction of them, though, actually get the chance to suit up and make it happen.
Despite growing up in Cleve­land among Buckeye fans, se­nior walk-on linebacker Sean Oxley dreamt of donning blue and gold and playing football for the Irish.
“It’s been a dream come true for me,” Oxley said. “I grew up watching Notre Dame football. I loved Rudy growing up, so this was the dream.”
A love for the Irish runs deep in Oxley’s blood. His fa­ther played in the Notre Dame Marching Band as a student, and the rest of his father’s side of the family grew up as Notre Dame fans.
“I come from just a huge Notre Dame family,” Oxley said. “My Grandma was Irish Catholic so she loved Notre Dame. I was getting it from all angles from a young age.”
A three-sport athlete at Avon Lake High School in Ohio, Oxley always knew that football was his top sport. He spurned offers from a host of Football Championship Sub­division (FCS) schools, includ­ing Georgetown and many of the Ivy League universities. Although he did not receive a scholarship offer from Notre Dame, the allure of playing for his childhood team was so strong, that Oxley decided to attempt to walk-on.
“Ultimately, I got in here academically and [playing at Notre Dame] was the dream, so I passed up a lot of other opportunities to be here,” Oxley said. “I tried to enter­tain the idea of [playing else­where], but at the end of the day I knew where I was going to be.”
Oxley was invited to walk-on as a freshman and began practicing with the team on the first day of classes. For the first eight weeks, Oxley endured through a grueling schedule. He participated in two-hour workouts begin­ning as early as 5 a.m. After­ward, Oxley went to classes before heading out in the afternoon for practice with the team. For an 18-year-old fresh out of high school, the new routine was difficult.
“I’m not going to lie — it was a miserable time,” Oxley said. “It was a dream come true [to be on the team], but after a few weeks I was ques­tioning whether I could stick with it.”
Oxley eventually found the support of both his family and his fellow walk-ons. The walk-ons grew particularly close over the course of four years. Part of that inti­macy can be attributed to the broth­erhood that is WOPU (Walk-On Play­ers Union) Nation, a group of which Oxley is now the president.
“I can’t say enough about the walk-ons,” Oxley said. “WOPU is huge … the guys in there are amaz­ing. Being a part of WOPU has been great in addition to being a part of the football team.”
Oxley and his fellow walk-ons love to see a member of WOPU get onto the field.
“It’s like when one of us gets on the field, all of us get on the field,” Oxley said. “No­body is jealous or anything. Honestly we’re proud to see one of our own guys getting a look.”
Coming out of spring prac­tice this year, Oxley was slat­ed to play on special teams before tearing his ACL. After months of rehab, he made it back to full strength and dressed for the USC game.
Throughout his career, Ox­ley has never ceased believing that his time on the field will come. However, he still remains focused on ful­filling his life­long dream — life after Notre Dame football.
The finance major recently accepted a job with the finan­cial services firm Morgan Stanley. After graduating in the spring, Ox­ley will work in Chicago, where he has many friends including for­mer Notre Dame receiver Barry Gallup, Jr. 
The friendships Oxley has formed in South Bend, as well as all the other tremendous experiences he’s had, have resulted in a great four years. Oxley said he has come to ful­ly appreciate just how special Notre Dame football is.
“I knew what I was walking into [when I came here],” Ox­ley said. “I enjoy feeling like week to week I’m contribut­ing to something bigger [than myself].”
Contact Mike Monaco at                     jmonaco@nd.edu

“I can’t say enough about the walk-ons. WOPU is huge ... the guys in there are amazing. Being a part of WOPU has been great in addition to being a part of the football team.”
Sean Oxley
senior linebacker


 Observer File Photo
Senior linebacker Sean Oxley tackles Western Michigan quarterback Alex Carder in Notre Dame’s 44-20 win in 2010.

Andrew Plaska

Balance is the name of the game for biology major

By EMILY SCHRANK
Sports Writer
For Andrew Plaska, life as a Notre Dame football player has been a balancing act, one that he’s learned to adjust to.
Plaska, a biology major, said despite the difficulties asso­ciated with his major, he has managed to handle all of his responsibilities, both on and off the field.
“Everyone I know at Notre Dame has something else go­ing on too,” he said. “When I’m at practice in the after­noon, other people are still in class or are involved with oth­er extracurricular activities.”
It’s a balance that Plaska said many of his other team­mates have worked on too. 
“All of the other guys are going to class and doing what they’re supposed to,” he said. “I’m not the only one with a lot on my plate, and once you figure it out, it’s not that bad.”
The Michigan native said his decision to come to Notre Dame was an easy one.
“I got into here and one oth­er school [Michigan State], so there was really no debate,” he said. “There’s something about the place, that intan­gible Notre Dame spirit every­one talks about.”
Plaska said he first began thinking about trying out for the football team when he went home for Christmas break during his freshman year.
“I talked to some guys that I had played with in high school who were playing at other schools, and it really made me miss it,” he said. “I also played for my dorm [Siegfried Hall] during the first semester, but I wanted something more.”
When he got back to campus in January, he decided to go for it.
“It was kind of a spontane­ous decision,” he said. “The worst they could do was say, ‘No,’ so I figured why not.”
Three months later, he was on the team.
“Running on the field and suiting up for the first time was an unbelievable experi­ence — really just amazing,” he said.
Plaska, who made the team under former head coach Charlie Weis, said the coach­ing change did not affect the way he felt about his position on the team.
“You still have to go out there and give it your all, re­gardless of who’s the coach,” he said. “You’re still expected to do the same thing.”	
Plaska said some of his fa­vorite football memories in­clude the team’s trip to El Paso, Texas, for the 2010 Sun Bowl and the friendships he has formed with other mem­bers of WOPU Nation, the Walk-On Players Union.
“It’s nice to have those guys you can count on, who don’t have a scholarship and had to try out just like you,” he said. “When you’re having a down day or one of the coaches is picking on you, they are there for you.”
Although many of the walk-on players Plaska is closest to have graduated, he said a strong camaraderie remains among the group.
“It’s nice to be here as the younger guys come in and you get to know them, especially knowing that you used to be one of the new guys,” he said.
Plaska added that one of his favorite aspects about his experience at Notre Dame has been life in the residence halls.
“Just living in the dorms and getting to know the guys in my hall has been one of the best parts,” he said. “That community is something that I think is really unique to Notre Dame.”
Plaska said he hopes the team will end the season on a high note.
“Of course going to another bowl game will be a great way to finish it off, and getting a chance to actually play in a game would be amazing in it­self,” he said.
Plaska plans to attend medical school next fall and has been accepted to his top choice — the University of Michigan.
“Being on the football team and having that balance be­tween academics and ath­letics is something that med schools look for,” he said. “This experience has really given me that.”
Contact Emily Schrank at 		eschrank@nd.edu


KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer
Senior cornerback Andrew Plaska pursues the quarterback during Notre Dame’s 2011 Blue-Gold spring game. The biology major will be attending medical school next fall.

David Posluzny

Notre Dame helps linebacker mature into confident adult


KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer
Senior linebacker David Posluzny lines up for a play during Notre Dame’s 2011 Blue-Gold spring game. Posluzny is the younger brother of NFL linebacker Paul Posluzny.

By CORY BERNARD
Sports Writer
As a senior in high school, David Posluszny saw in Notre Dame many of the same quali­ties his fellow recruits saw, but also harbored some anxi­ety about the transition to big time football. Now as a senior in college, he can appreci­ate how Notre Dame’s unique qualities transformed that nervous high school kid into the adult he is today.
“I had an opportunity to go to bunch of really good schools, but I really chose here just because of the tradition,” Posluszny said of his decision to commit to the Irish. “It’s a great football program, and it gives you an opportunity to play at the most elite level. Then also it’s really a faith-based community. I really wanted to go to a place where I could grow my spirituality and grow my religion, which is another reason why I came here.”
Though all of the selling points on the recruiting trail sound promising, the reality of becoming a Notre Dame stu­dent quickly sets in, according to Posluszny. He said through hard work and persistence, he was able to overcome the cul­ture shock.
“It was a big jump graduat­ing from high school and then two weeks later being enrolled at Notre Dame,” Posluszny said. “Working out and then going to practice and then go­ing to these tough classes — it was definitely a big jump. I was just persistent and all about getting through it.”
Another lesson in persis­tence came during the fall of Posluszny’s senior year of high school. The 2007 Irish cam­paign ended with a 3-9 mark, their worst in decades.
Posluszny said despite the difficulties of that year, he never wavered on his commit­ment to Notre Dame.
“It was definitely a tough season, but absolutely no re­grets,” he said. “I’ve always been taught from a young age to be persistent and just keep pushing through things. I’ve never thought about transfer­ring or never had any negative thoughts about it. I just keep grinding.”
Hailing from Aliquippa, Penn., Posluszny is not even the most well-known athlete in his family of five kids, let alone his town. Older brother Paul twice earned All-Ameri­can honors while playing line­backer at Penn State and has become a mainstay in the NFL since being drafted in 2007 by the Buffalo Bills.
As fate would have it, the younger Posluszny would be­come close friends with a fel­low freshman in a similar situation. Safety Dan McCar­thy saw his older brother Kyle earn a starting job in the Irish secondary and then a spot on the Denver Broncos.
“When I came in in the sum­mer, I really didn’t know any­body on the team,” Posluszny said. “My roommate was Dan­ny McCarthy, and ever since we met freshman year in the dorms we’ve had a really good relationship. Ever since, him and I have really been work­ing with each other through­out all these four years. Be­cause we’re such good friends, we definitely can lean on each other whenever we need it.”
As brothers constantly com­peting with their older sib­lings, Posluszny and McCar­thy have experienced much of the same pressure to perform. While he has seen only limited action in his career, Posluszny said that he no longer feels the need to prove himself.
“That’s one funny thing about Dan and I,” Posluszny said of chasing older brothers. “We both have that unique bond and we’ve definitely talked about that before. I definitely felt pressure when I was younger in high school, but when I moved on to college and when I matured and grew up as a person — even away from football — I didn’t really feel that pressure anymore.”
With friends like McCarthy, Posluszny said he was able to push through the challenges of having to sit on the sidelines while also maintaining his academics. Through the sup­port of the Irish community, he said he will be ready for his post-football life.
“Just with anything in life, whenever you’re going through a big change or any type of adversity, you always lean on your good group of friends,” Posluszny said. “It’s some­thing I’ve definitely been for­tunate to have here. Because of my experience here play­ing football, and through the classes and the relationships I have with my professors, I don’t really feel much anxiety going into the real world.”
Contact Cory Bernard at 		cbernard@nd.edu

Mike Ragone

Tight end stays positive despite multiple injuries


By ERIC PRISTER
Senior Sports Writer
One knee injury can change a career.
Three? That could be devastat­ing.
But for fifth-year tight end Mike Ragone, who has injured his ACL three times since high school, the injuries have not completely taken away from his experience at Notre Dame.
“It’s been a tough one,” Ragone said. “I’ve had some tough breaks, but it is what it is. I’m trying to stay positive. I’m trying to keep telling myself that God’s got a plan and everything. I’m just going to keep going forward. It’s not shoulda’, coulda’, woulda’. I’m really glad I came here. I met some really great people and made some really good friendships. It’s a good place, so I’m happy I came here.”
Coming out of high school, Ra­gone was ranked as the No. 3 tight end according to Rivals.com and the No. 2 tight end on ESPN’s 150 list. He was recruited nation­ally, but in the end he said it came down to Notre Dame and USC.
“It came down to here and USC basically,” he said. “This was my ultimate decision because I just fell in love with this place. My fam­ily was all about it, and I fell in love with it from the start, and my love for this place has just grown as the years have gone.
“The recruiting process was fun. It was a great time. [I liked] the fans. I came for the spring game and it was pretty cool, pretty intense. I had never been around that environment, and it was pret­ty sick, all the autographs, and just the love that they showed you — just the love for Notre Dame. Just to be a part of this place is really cool.”
When asked what he liked about USC, Ragone just laughed.
“Nothing,” he said.
Ragone was also one of the top wrestlers in the nation in high school. He finished 37-0 during his junior year heading into the New Jersey state semifinals, but experienced two firsts during that match — his first loss of the sea­son and his first knee injury.
“About a minute in, a guy grabbed my ankle when I was on the ground, jumped out and that was it,” he said.
Ragone missed his senior sea­son in both football and wrestling but was still recruited and signed on to play for the Irish. As a fresh­man, Ragone played mainly on special teams during games, but as a tight end was able to play next to and learn from John Carlson, now an NFL tight end for the Se­attle Seahawks.
“As a freshman, lining up against John Carlson was crazy,” Ragone said. “[He] just [taught me] character things, things I grasped from him, [like] how to present yourself on the field and off the field. He was a really good per­son. He had like a 3.8 GPA — his­tory major and second round draft pick. He was a great guy. You just want to study him in all facets.”
But a knee injury struck again during training camp of Ragone’s sophomore season, and he was forced to sit out the entirety of the 2008 campaign. Ragone said the feeling of a second injury was far more devastating than the first, but that he found he could serve another role on the team.
“It’s indescribable,” he said. “It sucks, it hurts, but I just wanted to be around the team, just talk to guys, just be an example. Not al­ways just talking, just being pres­ent, just so they know that this guy can walk around and manage his life with a positive outlook after going through so much. Being an All-American and everything and then have this stuff happen — it just gives people encouragement.”
Minnesota Vikings tight end Kyle Rudolph, who came to Notre Dame one year after Ragone, is one player who said he learned from the fifth-year tight end.
“Mike was always there for me freshman year, showing me dif­ferent things — where a class was, how to do a lift in the weight room,” Rudolph said. “Any ques­tions I had, he was there to an­swer.”
Rudolph and Ragone said they still keep in touch, and Rudolph said he texted Ragone after he suffered his third season-end­ing knee injury earlier this year against Michigan.
“I told him to just stay positive, because it’s not the bad things that define you, but how you deal with them that make you a good per­son,” he said.
When asked if he will apply to the NCAA for a sixth year of eligi­blity, Ragone said he was unsure of his future.
“Right now it sucks,” he said. “Right now I’m just trying to look for positive things, and it’s tough to find them. But I hope everything will fall into place. To play another year under the gold helmet with coach Kelly would be a dream come true.”
Contact Eric Prister at 		eprister@nd.edu

TOM LA/The Observer
Senior tight end Mike Ragone catches a pass during practice in 2010. Ragone has suffered three knee injuries at Notre Dame and may apply for a sixth year of eligibility.

Chris Salvi

Special teams play earns walk-on captaincy for Navy game


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer
Senior safety Chris Salvi lines up for a play during Notre Dame’s 56-14 win over Navy on Oct. 29. Salvi was named the gameday captain for the contest against Navy.

By CORY BERNARD
Sports Writer
Like many Notre Dame ath­letes, senior safety Chris Salvi acknowledges the academic rigors of the University and the importance of earning a degree. Make no mistake, though. Salvi came to South Bend to play football.
“The whole reasoning behind it was I just grew up watching Notre Dame football,” Salvi said. “I idolized the people playing it, so I thought I’d give it a try. The biggest motivation [to come to Notre Dame] was football, but obviously the aca­demics here are the best.”
A transfer from Butler who walked on to the football team, Salvi does not fit the prototypi­cal description of an Irish star. He has nonetheless made his presence felt this season, ap­pearing in all 10 games and re­cording nine tackles on special teams. Though he lacks the physical attributes necessary for a scholarship, Salvi said he never made making the prac­tice squad his ultimate goal. He always expected to play.
“My goal from the begin­ning was always to play spe­cial teams,” he said. “I knew that there would always be something to build on after my first year. That year I did scout team and all that stuff and then my second year I was playing special teams and this year even more so.”
As a full-time special teams player, Salvi has had time to pick up on the intricacies of his various positions. Accord­ing to Salvi, the individual studying he puts in to improve his play is a luxury many other special teams contributors do not have.
“You don’t practice as much on special teams during the week because you focus so much on the other aspects of the game,” he said. “The info during that is a lot larger so you have to take every rep se­riously in special teams to get the most out of it and improve every week. The other aspect of special teams that a lot of people overlook is watching film on the other teams. 
“Because there’s such an em­phasis on offense and defense, guys that do both usually wor­ry about their offensive or de­fensive position more. You can take advantage when you are more of a special teamer to watch film and get to know the tendencies of the other teams.”
The work Salvi puts in on and off the field has produced some tangible results this season. In Notre Dame’s first victory of the season, Salvi made a key block on a kick return that took out two Michigan State players and helped spring freshman returner George Atkinson for a touchdown. Though he made a standout play, Salvi credits the praise he received after the game to others.
“A little bit part of it was luck,” he said. “The [televi­sion] announcer singled me out during the replay so people realized that I made the block. I could give myself credit and say it was just me, but there were a lot of guys that made that play and it just so hap­pened mine stood out.”
Before Notre Dame’s con­test against Navy, Salvi was again recognized for his ef­forts. Irish coach Brian Kelly named the walk-on a gameday captain against the Midship­men. Though Salvi said he felt honored after being named captain, the lifelong Irish fan maintained his focus on im­provement. 
“[Being named captain] was something that was a pretty big accomplishment for me, but at the same time you don’t stop there,” Salvi said. “Being a captain, it’s different than any statistical things you can achieve. But regardless, you don’t stop at your goals. 
“You keep going whether it’s being a better leader every day or making more tackles on kickoff. You’re always trying to better the team and yourself.”
Because of this desire to constantly improve, Salvi has been able to realize a lifelong dream of donning the blue and gold. Although he likely won’t be collecting a paycheck for his athletic skills after gradu­ation, he said his experience playing football at Notre Dame would continue to help him succeed.
“This is one of the largest stages on earth,” Salvi said. “College football — especially at Notre Dame — we’re always in the limelight. Whether it’s praise or criticism, people are always looking at us. 
“Being part of such a large organization and being with a bunch of high profile people, it prepares you for anything you may face later on in your ca­reer or in life in general.”
Contact Cory Bernard at 		cbernard@nd.edu

Trevor Robinson

Robinson keeps things loose

Nebraska native leaves home to attend Notre Dame and start for four consecutive years


By MATTHEW DEFRANKS
Sports Writer
When the competition on the field finishes, Irish senior right guard Trevor Robinson needs something to fill the void. So what does he turn to?
His Nintendo-64, of course.
“The offensive line is pretty solid at Super Smash Brothers,” Robinson said. “We play quite a bit of that. We play some Mario Kart but no one can really hang with me.”
The business management major, who plays as Fox in the video game, has exceled on the football field as well, starting in each of his four seasons with the Irish.
The Elkhorn, Neb. native was one of the top recruits in the heralded 2008 recruit­ing class that included tight end Kyle Ru­dolph, receiver Michael Floyd and cornerback Robert Blanton. Robinson — the top-rated guard in the country by Rivals — was originally committed to Nebraska before switching to Notre Dame late in the recruiting process.
Robinson said there was a lot of outside pressure from home to attend Nebraska.
“That’s pretty much all there is in Nebraska,” Robinson said of the outside pressure. “When I decommitted, I got a lot of hate mail. For a lot of people, it’s kind of a sore subject back at home.”
Just a month after he com­mitted to Notre Dame, Robinson enrolled early in the spring to get a jump on the offense.
“Spring ball is big,” Robinson said. “The first winter of condi­tioning and strength training was big and learning the of­fense. When the rest of the class got here for camp, I was already a leg up on the playbook.”
The extra practice helped Robinson become one of just five Irish players ever to start on the offensive line as a fresh­man, joining Sam Young and Ryan Harris as recent players to achieve the feat.
“It’s exciting especially at a school like Notre Dame that’s been playing for so long,” Rob­inson said. “Anytime you can get mentioned in something like that, it’s cool.”
When former head coach Charlie Weis was fired in 2009, Robinson said he — and the rest of the team — just had to roll with it.
“There are some growing pains and you see that in the first year,” Robinsons said. “It feels like you’re a freshman again learn­ing every­thing over.”
Despite the change to Irish coach Bri­an Kelly’s up-tempo spread of­fense, Rob­inson still started all 13 games for the Irish in 2010.
“It’s quite a bit different,” Robinson said. “The structure and the calls are different but for offensive lineman, it just comes down to blocking peo­ple.”
Because of his early experi­ence as a freshman, Robinson has had the opportunity to play with many different offensive line units. He says, however, this year’s group is the best one yet.
“The product we put on the field will probably say that we’re the best group that I’ve played with,” Robinson said. “Obvi­ously, there have been players that come and go that have been good guys and still play in the NFL. I don’t think it was ever a lack of talent that led to lack of production. I think this is the most productive group, I don’t think that will be much of an argument.”
The Irish offensive line has paved the way for 23 rushing touchdowns this year while av­eraging nearly 180 yards per game on the ground. The unit went five entire games this sea­son without a allowing a sack, a streak that Robinson attributes to a total team effort.
“It’s a team effort,” Robinson said. “It involves running backs and the quarterbacks making the checks and obviously us up front get a lot of credit for it but there’s a lot that goes into it as far as coaching and preparing during the week.”
While Robinson has found success as an offensive line­man, it was not always that way for the 6-foot-5, 311-pound se­nior.
“I started out playing skill po­sitions and then I got too fat to keep doing that,” Robinson said with a laugh. “It was never a choice. Nobody ever chooses to play offensive guard.”
Robinson’s size helped him snatch a spot on the 2010 Out­land Trophy preseason watch list. The Outland Trophy is an­nually awarded to the nation’s top interior lineman.
“I like to think physical like any offensive lineman,” Robin­son said. “I like to be the guy that makes the calls and does the mental part too.”
Robinson’s strong 2010 cam­paign and leadership qualities led to a special privilege: be­ing named a gameday captain for Notre Dame’s 2011 season opener against South Florida.
“It was exciting, the season opener, there’s a lot of buzz around campus and a lot of buzz around the pep rally,” Rob­inson said. “That’s the kickoff to the year so it’s definitely cool to do that.”
Since dropping the first two games of the season this year, Notre Dame has rebounded to rip off seven wins in eight games. Robinson believes this team still has more left to prove in their final two games against Boston College and Stanford.
“We’ve seen that we can com­pete with anybody,” Robinson said. “If we compete well, we can beat anybody we play.”
Robinson has started each game for the Irish this season, adding to his growing total of 45 career games played for Notre Dame. One game, how­ever, sticks out to Robinson: his first career game, when the Irish topped Michigan in 2008.
“It was at home, against Michigan, sec­ond game of the year,” Robinson said. “[Former Irish guard] Chris Stewart was hurt and wasn’t going to play. It was raining and we ended up winning that game.”
Robinson had not played in the season-opening win against San Diego State and sat out the first half against the Wolverines. While Robinson recalls that moment as a great football memory, he remembers the trip to Hawaii for the Hawaii Bowl in 2008 as an excellent off-the-field mo­ment.
“Looking back, it was with a lot guys I don’t see any more and it time I got to spend with them,” Robinson said. “We got to do some things outside of football so it was fun.”
The Hawaii Bowl also marked a landmark in Robinson’s ap­pearance. Robinson shaved the long hair he had grown — in­spired by former Ohio State and current Green Bay linebacker A.J. Hawk — since his freshman year of high school.
“It was pretty ugly, pretty long,” Robinson said of his hair at the time.
After his football career is over, Robinson — who now sports short hair and a full beard – said he would like to own his own business, possi­bly with his brother, who just opened up a gym.
Robinson described his Notre Dame experience as one about the people he met.
“It’s a lot of good people,” Robinson said of Notre Dame. “That was something I kind of took for granted when I was a freshman. I’ve come to appreciate all the things you get to ex­perience and all the peo­ple you meet. One of my biggest re­grets is that I didn’t take advantage of all the resources and all the great people that are here.”
When he graduates, Robinson will leave a legacy of a four-year starter on the offensive line be­hind.
“[I want to be remembered as] somebody that led by ex­ample,” Robinson said. “Don’t really talk too much on the field or do anything like that but al­ways being there trying to do the right thing.”
Contact Matthew DeFranks at 	mdefrank@nd.edu

“We’ve seen that we can compete with anybody.”
Trevor Robinson
senior offensive guard

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer
Senior offensive guard Trevor Robinson pass-blocks during Notre Dame’s 15-12 win over PIttsburgh on Sept. 24.


“I’ve come to appreciate all the things you get to experience and all the people you meet. ”
Trevor Robinson
senior offensive guard

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer

Senior offensive guard Trevor Robinson, left, and senior offensive tackle Taylor Dever celebrate after a touchdown during Notre Dame’s 56-14 victory over Navy on Oct. 29.

David Ruffer

Waiting game pays off

Ruffer earns scholarship and comes back for one more year of kicking


By DOUGLAS FARMER
Editor-in-Chief
Just like David Ruffer always wanted to attend Notre Dame, he always wanted to stay for a fifth year. But without a schol­arship, the graduated kicker spent the spring interviewing for jobs, assuming his career with the Irish had concluded.
“It was a ques­tion if I could get a scholar­ship or not,” said Ruffer, now a graduate stu­dent. “Because I was graduating, there wasn’t re­ally an academic reason to come back, and I had career opportu­nities available to me.”
Those ca­reer opportuni­ties were in hot pursuit when Ruffer’s phone rang with good news last February. He was at an interview over lunch when he learned a scholarship would be available for him in the fall of 2011.
“Despite the fact I was hav­ing lunch with some potential employers, it was just some­thing that was a culmination of a lot of work,” Ruffer said Tuesday. “They knew my situ­ation, they were fully informed of what I was going through. They were as happy for me as I was.”
Nonetheless, the rest of the meal did have a sense of awk­ward pointlessness to it.
“Hey, there’s something I have to do first,” Ruffer re­members telling the business­men. “I have some business to attend to back at school, and then I’ll talk to you guys.”
Playing the waiting game
Waiting on the scholarship was a piece of cake compared to Ruffer’s original path to Notre Dame. Both his father and grandfather graduated from Notre Dame, as did a few of his uncles and his older sis­ter. Yet when Ruffer received what should have been his ac­ceptance letter, it instead read as a denial.
“I grew up loving Notre Dame,” Ruffer said during a 2010 interview. “I didn’t get in as a freshman, and that was probably the best thing that ever hap­pened to me. It made me realize you have to work really hard for the things you want.”
Ruffer headed to William & Mary, walked on to the football team as a field goal kicker and worked hard enough in class to gain admit­tance to Notre Dame his sopho­more year.
From the William & Mary fields, Ruffer moved to the fields outside Stepan Center as the kicker for the Siegfried interhall football team. He played for an even shorter time with the Ramblers than he did out east with the Tribe, hitting one field goal in interhall com­petition.
Next up, with less than two seasons of kicking experience under his belt, Ruffer walked on with the Irish, completing his rapid rise.
Perfection can’t last
A walk-on serving as kicker is story enough to attract at­tention, but then Ruffer did a few things never before done at Notre Dame. He hit 23 con­secutive field goals, including 18 straight to open 2010. His .947 conversion rate last sea­son stands alone as the top field goal percentage in Irish history.
Time and time again he would be asked if he would ever miss a field goal. After all, he hit his only interhall attempt, does not remember missing any during his walk-on tryouts, and began his Notre Dame career 23-for-23.
“You can only learn from mistakes,” he said last year, in what would turn into a man­tra. “You can’t make every sin­gle one, so it will happen even­tually. The trick will be how I bounce back from that. It will happen, but I feel like I have a pretty strong head, so I’ll be okay.”
Ruffer’s first miss came in his last 2010 attempt, in the Sun Bowl against Miami late in the third quarter. He then had nine months to stew over the miss before missing again in the 2011 season-opener against South Florida. A week later, Ruffer connected from 38 yards against Michigan, and now stands at 7-of-11 this season, and 30-of-35 for his career.
“It happened. Everybody misses,” he said. “That’s part of it. It was weird because it hadn’t happened before, but it had to happen eventually. No matter how good you’re kick­ing, it happens.
“You have to take what you can from the missed kick, pro­cess the information from that and focus on the next one. You definitely can’t consciously think about missing the last one.”
When Notre Dame traveled to the Washington, D.C. area to play Maryland at FedEx Field last Saturday, Ruffer was kick­ing less than 11 miles from his high school, Gonzaga Col­lege High School in Oakton, Va. During the 45-21 Irish victory, the D.C. native came within one yard of tying the record for longest field goal in Notre Dame history. His 52-yard con­version made him 5-for-5 in a span stretching six games. The record of 53 yards, set by Dave Reeve in 1976, will not be safe until Ruffer has left Notre Dame, as Irish special teams coach Mike Elston has said he sees Ruffer hit 53-yarders on a daily basis.
But he will be gone
This year, Ruffer knows he will not be back next year, though he has not ruled out more football.
“I’ll see if the NFL thing works out, but I’m not holding my breath on that,” Ruffer said. “I have to give it a try at this point. If it doesn’t work out, I’ll go find a job somewhere in the finance industry.”
Don’t be surprised if Ruffer is setting up luncheon inter­views sooner than you may expect. Not be­cause he does not have the skill set to cut it in the NFL, but because a year ago this same kicker — who at that point had never missed a competitive field goal — ad­mitted whole-heartedly the NFL would not be a career path filled with longevity.
“NFL stands for Not For Long, right?” he joked.
For now, Ruffer will focus on three more games, know­ing they are his last in a Notre Dame uniform. Last year, he hoped the end of 2010 would not be the end at Notre Dame, and his hopes turned into real­ity.
“I think [this senior day] will definitely be more emotional, because I know there isn’t a chance for next year,” he said. “There will be emotion, but I’ll try not to get emotional. I don’t want that to get in the way of the job I have to do.
“When Utah came in last year, I was definitely having the same feeling that this could be the last time. I took the vic­tory lap just trying to take it all in, and I’ll do that again … I wish this didn’t have to hap­pen, but all good things have to come to an end.”
This good thing ending is better than it never having be­gun, which was what Ruffer once faced. If you had told him four years ago he would end up with a scholarship as a gradu­ate student, he said he likely would have doubted you.
“I prob­ably would have said, ‘Really?’ I’d have been skeptical,” he said. “I never imag­ined any of this hap­pening. To be honest, I was just re­ally lucky to make the team the way it all happened.
“You don’t really think about it when you’re a walk-on, but over time [the scholarship and a fifth year] became a possibil­ity, and when it happened, it was fantastic. I had the chance to come back for another year to play for the school I love with a bunch of friends.”
In other words, he had some business to attend to.
Contact Douglas Farmer at	dfarmer1@nd.edu

“Everybody misses. That’s part of it. It was weird because it happened before, but it had to happen eventually.”
David Ruffer
fifth-year kicker

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer
Fifth-year kicker David Ruffer approaches a kick during Notre Dame’s 45-21 win over Maryland on Nov. 12.


“I never imagined any of this happening. To be honest, I was just really lucky to make the team the way it all happened.”
David Ruffer
fifth-year kicker

Observer File Photo

Fifth-year kicker David Ruffer kicks an extra point during Notre Dame’s 20-16 victory over USC on Nov. 27, 2010. Ruffer made 18 of his 19 field goal attempts during the 2010 season.

Ryan Sharpley

Sharpley overcomes injuries to play two sports

By DOUGLAS FARMER
Editor-in-Chief
Typically, a walk-on needs to impress the Irish coach­ing staff from the outset in order to make the team. Ryan Sharpley’s first few minutes on the field were far from impres­sive, yet the pitcher-turned-re­ceiver still made the cut.
“The first day of practice, we were actually going through stretching lines. The very first stretching line I was jogging down and I fell,” Sharpley said. “It was my first time wearing football cleats in five years.
“Everybody in my line no­ticed, along with some of the coaches. At that point, I was just like, ‘What am I doing?’ That was my first day.”
Sharpley’s inability to run with football cleats stems from his natural ability to do so in baseball cleats, which have much shorter spikes. He origi­nally came to Notre Dame in 2007 as a starting pitcher after the Chicago White Sox drafted the right-hander in the 34th round of the 2007 Major League Draft. During his fresh­man season, Sharpley threw 32.2 innings and struck out 31 batters while tallying an ERA of 3.03. 
His stellar stats were no match for a torn right labrum, though, and Sharpley under­went surgery his sophomore year. In his junior season, he struck out more than a batter per inning before transferring to Point Loma Nazarene in San Diego.
Out west, Sharpley could not escape the injury bug, as he tore his right labrum again, further damaging his pitching arm. At that point, he hung up his baseball cleats and made a decision.
“I wanted to get my degree from one of the most presti­gious universities in the coun­try,” Sharpley said. “In doing so, I thought I could benefit the football team with my experi­ence.”
By “experience,” Sharpley more refers to his time in ath­letics than he does his football experience, as his last time on the gridiron was his junior year of high school. 
“It was a lot different than I expected, in a positive man­ner,” the sociology and comput­er applications double major said. “Coming in you don’t real­ly know what to expect. Going from baseball to football, the mentality is a lot more intense.”
When Sharpley first told his friends and family — including former Notre Dame quarter­back and older brother Evan Sharpley — of his football as­pirations, the response was en­couraging.
“When I told my brother, he said, ‘Why not? You have noth­ing to lose. If you make the team, people will be really im­pressed. If you don’t, so what, you gave it a try,” Ryan said. “More than anything he was just really proud of me.”
Many of Sharpley’s former baseball teammates had some trouble believing he had suc­cessfully made the football team, though. Then again, so did Sharpley.
“They kept asking me, ‘Are you on the team?’” he said. “I’d say I wasn’t sure. I’m practic­ing. I have a locker and a num­ber, but I don’t know if I’m re­ally on the team.
“When my picture was in the program, I thought, ‘Wow, I’m on the team.’”
A few days later he was catching passes from Irish quarterbacks Dayne Crist and Tommy Rees.
“To me, for some reason, it didn’t really resonate initially,” Sharpley said. “Then I real­ized, ‘Wow, so many people would die to be out here doing what I’m doing.’ It hit me what I was doing.”
A few weeks later, he stood in the tunnel at Notre Dame Sta­dium with the number 85 on his back and 82,000 people in front of him. That crowd was quite a bit larger than any he ever pitched in front of. It was also a crowd quite a bit larger than the one watching when he fell over on the first day of fall camp.
“Standing in the tunnel, looking out there, hearing the band and seeing the crowd, it’s a real moment you can’t put into words,” Sharpley said. “I had chills going down my back, but I was also hoping I wouldn’t fall down as I ran onto the field like I did in the first day of camp.”
Sharpley didn’t fall, and though he injured his right knee the week before the Irish played Air Force, he realizes he beat the odds playing two sports at Notre Dame.
“This was special. This was something I didn’t take for granted.”
Contact Douglas Farmer at           	dfarmer1@nd.edu


JULIE HERDER/The Observer
Senior receiver Ryan Sharpley delivers a pitch for the Irish in 2010. Sharpley walked-on to the football team this fall after a torn right labrum ended his pitching career.

Ryan Sheehan

Walk-on Sheehan chooses football over track scholarship

By NICK BOYLE
Sports Writer
It’s not every day you find someone athletic enough to play Division I sports. It’s even rarer that you find someone athleti­cally talented enough to play two.
After spending his freshman year running for the track team, fifth-year senior cornerback Ryan Sheehan decided to drop track and try-out for the football team, one of the best decisions Sheehan said he has ever made.
“While I got recruited to run track here, football was and al­ways has been my passion. I couldn’t imagine my life without it now,” Sheehan said.
Coming out of high school, Sheehan, a four-time varsity let­ter winner in both track and football, received interest from many smaller schools to play football. While football was al­ways his first choice and favorite sport, Sheehan could not ignore the track and field interest he re­ceived from many larger Division I schools, including heavy inter­est from Notre Dame.
After being invited for a visit and touring the campus, Shee­han knew that Notre Dame’s offer was one he could not refuse.
“I’m not one of those kids who was a Notre Dame fan his entire life, but after visiting I knew there was something special about the school,” Sheehan said. “I fell in love with it almost immediately and I knew I would regret it if I went anywhere else.”
Although Sheehan accepted Notre Dame’s offer to run track, playing football was always in the back of his mind. 
“During my freshman year of track I always found myself watching football and wishing I could be a part of the team,” Sheehan said. “Myself and [se­nior] Pat Coughlin would go to track practice and talk all the time about how cool it would be to play on the football team.”
Midway through his freshman track season misfortune struck Sheehan as he partially tore his Achilles tendon during a meet. Struggling to get back into top track form, Sheehan took this misfortune as an opportunity for him to drop track and follow his dream of playing football.
Coming from a family of four other football-playing brothers, Sheehan received much support from his friends and family back home.
“My parents understood how unhappy I was when I was doing track and they very much want­ed me to have the best college ex­perience that I could. They were very supportive of my choice to try and make the switch,” Shee­han said. “My brothers were pumped about it as they’re all playing football too.”
While making the decision to switch was an easy one for Shee­han, he still had to go through a rigorous tryout process, one that Sheehan described as more mentally than physically grueling. A 4:30 a.m. wake up call every morning for Sheehan was the norm for the tryout process.
“Luckily, since I had been do­ing track, I was in pretty good shape for tryouts.” Shee­han said. “Unfor­tunately, the tryout workouts weren’t workouts designed to get you in shape. They were de­signed to break your will and re­ally see if you wanted to be on the team.”
After suffering through weeks of early workouts, Sheehan made the team, calling it one of the happiest experiences of his life.
While playing football was the ultimate goal for Sheehan, he has also found the relation­ships formed from doing so are some of the most important he has. Sheehan said he feels the bonds he formed with his fellow walk-ons during the tryout pro­cess are some of the strongest he has, while he has also made good friends with his fellow posi­tion players such as senior safety Harrison Smith, junior safety Zeke Motta and senior safety Dan McCarthy.
“I feel like the friendships I’ve made since I’ve been on the football team are the ones that will last beyond college,” Shee­han said. “They are definitely the most meaning­ful ones that I have.”
Al­though he spends a lot of time on football, Sheehan still de­votes plen­ty of time to academ­ics. A fifth year se­nior, Shee­han gradu­ated last year with a degree in Accountancy and is now a gradu­ate student enrolled in the MSA program. He feels football is one of the main reasons he has been successful academically. 
“When [former Irish coach Charlie] Weis was here walk-ons had to maintain grades to stay on the team. This really motivated me to grind down and learn how to study,” Sheehan said. “By ju­nior year I had figured it out [ac­ademically] and eventually was accepted into grad school.”
Sheehan now has a job lined up with KPMG working on federal tax in Washington, D.C.
Contact Nick Boyle at           	nboyle1@nd.edu

“During my freshman year of track I always found myself watching football and wishing I could be a part of the team. Myself and [senior] Pat Coughlin would go to track practice and talk all the time about how cool it would be to play on the football team.”
Ryan Sheehan
senior cornerback


 Observer File Photo
Senior cornerback Ryan Sheehan makes a tackle on special teams against Michigan in 2010. The Irish lost the game, 28-24.

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

page 30 | ndsmcobserver.com

Friday, November 18, 2011

Jamoris Slaughter

Slaughter fills many roles

Senior safety Jamoris Slaughter emerges as versatile and opportunistic defender 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS
Sports Writer
Standing six feet tall and weighing just 198 pounds, Irish senior safety Jamoris Slaughter may not look like he lives up to his last name. But looks can be deceiving.
“They hear Slaughter, they think of football and then they see me in person and they say ‘Oh, he’s small,’” he said. “Then they see me on the field and they see me hitting and play­ing with the big boys. I like that name Slaughter.”
Slaughter chose Notre Dame — instead of a local Georgia team — because of the oppor­tunity to play big-time college football and receive a great education as well.
“There was a lot of pressure [to go to Georgia],” Slaughter said. “Coaches from my little league and high school were big Georgia fans so I had a lot of pressure to go there. But I chose Notre Dame because I felt like it was best for me.”
The hard-hitting safety from Stone Mountain, Ga. was part of the heralded 2008 recruit­ing class that included fellow senior defensive back Robert Blanton.
“Jamoris is another guy just like Robert [Blanton] where you watch these guys play and say they give you some versatil­ity because you can play them at safety, you can play them at corner, you’ve got corner cover skills with safety ability, but then you can put them at safety and not limit yourself to just having limited range and just bringing everyone in here that played strong safety,” former Irish coach Charlie Weis said on signing day of 2008.
When he arrived at Notre Dame, Slaughter moved to cor­nerback for his freshman year under Weis. A year later, he moved back to safety and has been used in a variety of roles this year.
“As we’ve talked about, we love Jamoris Slaughter and what he can do,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “He’s a play­maker. We’ve played him at an invert linebacker position against the option teams. He’s played nickel for us, and now when we get into games where there’s skill on the field, three wides, four wides, we want to match that, and Jamoris gives us the ability to do that, and if you want to run the ball, he’s physical enough to stick his nose in there.”
In Notre Dame’s 24-17 win over Wake Forest, Kelly moved Slaughter into the “dog” line­backer position, replacing sophomore linebacker Prince Shembo. The Irish, who trailed 17-10 at halftime, did not allow a second half point in the come-from-behind victory.
“As you know, we went more nickel in the second half with Jamoris Slaughter going in for Prince,” Kelly said after the game. “It wasn’t that Prince didn’t play well, but they put him in space against skill play­ers.”
Slaughter also dropped down to play nickel back and dog line­backer during the 59-33 victory over Air Force. The move paid immediate dividends.
“I came in as a corner and I played some nickel with Coach Weis’ staff on scout team,” Slaughter said. “I understood it so I picked it up really quick during the spring when they moved me there.”
On the Falcons’ first play from scrimmage, Air Force running back Asher Clark dashed for 29 yards before Slaughter forced a fumble, giving the ball back to the Irish with a 7-0 lead.
“I go in to every game with the mindset that I need to make plays,” Slaughter said. “I was so happy that I made those plays because we needed those espe­cially in the beginning of the game.”
But Slaughter was not done yet.
With the Irish up 28-9 in the second quarter, Air Force quar­terback Tim Jefferson dropped back and threw a flare into the flat. Slaughter tipped the ball in the air before making a diving interception to force his second turnover of the game.
“I was just reading the ball,” Slaughter said. “I think it was just natural instincts. I’m known at practice for tipping the ball and making acrobatic catches. It’s something I do ev­ery day. I was just happy I came down with the ball.”
The game marked Slaughter’s first breakout performance af­ter just six career starts before this year.
Last year, Slaughter earned the starting safety position entering the season. In the opening game against Purdue, however, he injured his foot. The injury plagued Slaughter throughout his junior year.
“That was hard to deal with,” Slaughter said of the injury. “It was my first year getting some real playing time and to get hurt that first game, it kind of set me back. I still kept fighting. This year, I’ve just been push­ing and trying to do good every game.”
Over his four years at Notre Dame, Slaughter has worked with two different head coach­es — including two different defensive schemes as well.
“I took it on pretty good,” Slaughter said of the coaching change. “The new coaches that came in were very welcoming. I got along good with [safeties coach Chuck] Martin and [cor­nerbacks coach Kerry] Cooks and the whole defensive staff. It was a good transition.”
Slaughter described Irish de­fensive coordinator Bob Diaco’s defense as one based on team­work.
“Everybody has to play their role,” Slaughter said. “Each person has something that’s key to the defense. If each per­son does their job, everything will flow.”
Slaughter credits the sec­ondary’s success this year to a change in mentality.
“We’ve always had good [de­fensive backs],” Slaughter said. “It was just a mentality [issue]. Sometimes at [defensive back], if you give up a play, everyone will look at you bad and I think that’s what went on in the years be­fore. I think now, we’re trying to stay focused and play well.”
Slaughter, who describes his game as physical and smart, attri­butes his play to his own thought pro­cess.
“I have that mentality that even though I’m small, I can still lay a big hit,” Slaughter said. “I think that has a lot to do with it. A lot of people my size that probably can’t do it because they don’t have that mentality.”
Off the field, the industrial design major has found an en­tertaining interest: rapping.
Before the Sun Bowl last sea­son, Slaughter rapped at the talent show, dropping lines like “Fighting Irish all the way from Indiana, come to El Paso, drop it like a hammer.” He said he wrote the song on the bus ride to the show. Slaughter, however, rapped regularly with former Irish running back Armando Allen and junior running back Cierre Wood.
“We’ve always been close ever since me and Armando got here and then when Cierre got here, we’ve always hung out,” Slaughter said. “It was just something that clicked togeth­er. We all rapped so we decided to start making songs.”
In the spring, Slaughter re­leased a song titled “Skylar Diggins” to commemorate the women’s bas­ketball run to the Final Four. The song quickly spread across campus.
“The girls were going to the Final Four, it was a big event for our school and the wom­en’s basket­ball team,” Slaughter said. “I might as well make a song about it. It was fun.”
Notre Dame’s seven wins through 10 games are the most for any Irish team dur­ing Slaughter’s tenure, a fact that has to do with chemistry, Slaughter said.
“We have a lot more chemis­try now within the team, player to player, coach to coach. I think a lot of that really helps when it comes to winning games.”
With just two regular season games remaining for the Irish, Slaughter is optimistic about Notre Dame’s chances.
“I think we’re going to win each game,” Slaughter said. “I think we’ll only have three losses and go out on top [and] change the culture around here.”
Contact Matthew DeFranks at       mdefrank@nd.edu


COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer
Senior safety Jamoris Slaughter returns an interception during a 59-33 victory over Air Force on Oct. 8.

“I have that mentality that even though I’m small, I can still lay a big hit. I think that has a lot to do with it. A lot of people my size that probably can’t do it because they don’t have that mentality.”
Jamoris Slaughter
senior safety


COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer

Senior safety Jamoris Slaughter chases a ballcarrier during Notre Dame’s 59-33 win over Air Force on Oct. 8. Slaughter recorded six tackles and an interception in the victory.

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

Friday, November 18, 2011

ndsmcobserver.com | page 31

Deion Walker

Receiver displays dedication to fight through adversity


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer
Senior receiver Deion Walker waves to the crowd during Notre Dame’s 45-21 victory over Maryland on Nov. 12. WIth one year of eligibility remaining, Walker hopes to return to the Irish.

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN
Sports Writer
Next time you crank up David Bedingfield’s “Gotta Get Through This,” think of Deion Walker making the cold trek from his former dorm, Morrissey, to the Gug. 
“I listened to that song the most when I needed to get from point A to point B in the cold winters,” Walker said.
But Walker earned his spot as wide receiver with more than just three, long stints in South Bend. 
Walker’s time with the Irish has been characterized not only by hard work and dedication, but by camaraderie too. Walker meshes seamlessly with the rest of the senior population. 
“Just hanging out and being in the receiver room, with [Michael] Floyd and Golden [Tate] and learning at the same time, you walk away from the meeting and you’re like, ‘Wow, I really learned something from that,’” Walker said. 
As for many of the seniors, the coaching transition was difficult for Walker. 
“A lot has changed,” Walker said. “I had a bigger role with the old staff, but that’s just how it goes sometimes.”
Walker and his family were close with former receivers coach Rob Ianello, who is now head football coach at the University of Akron 
“He did a lot of yelling at me,” Walker said. 
But Walker said the best way to fight through adversity was working hard, and Ianello’s ap­proach was part of that learning process. 
The learning continued as Walker and the team acclimated to the new staff. 
“They’re trying to [teach] you,” Walker said. “[They’re] trying not to step on anyone’s toes, but at the same time they’re yelling at you to see how you’re going to react in certain situations.” 
This year has been a bumpy road because the team came in with such high expectations, Walker said. Even though he hasn’t had any playing time this year, Walker summarized what he saw this season. 
“I wouldn’t say that we didn’t live up to those expectations, but we didn’t perform to the best of our abilities,” Walker said.
Walker also noted how the pro­gram has remained consistent. 
“Both [staffs] pushed for hard work and striving for excellence,” he said. 
Walker has tried to match that excellence with initiative on the practice field. 
“In my case, it’s been tough be­cause I haven’t played as much as I would have liked to,” Walker said. “Even though I’m not play­ing, someone needs to get better at practice.”
Excellence and hard work were qualities Walker’s father encour­aged while deciding between Notre Dame and Penn State.
“My dad was a teacher,” Walk­er said. “He pushed academics, and this is probably the best school academically and ath­letically that you can find in the country.” 
Walker’s father has every rea­son to be proud. 
“I have a job offer at a bank in Kansas,” Walker said. “I don’t re­ally want to work right now, but I haven’t really decided. 
“My dad tells me every day, ‘That’s why you picked it.’ He’s really excited about me graduat­ing in May.”
Walker has one year of eligibil­ity remaining, and will consider staying if the program decides to keep him. 
“If they decide to bring me back, I would definitely stay here,” he said. 
For Walker, smaller amounts of playing time didn’t inhibit his instinct to learn as much as he could. 
“I’ve had a blast, I mean, it’s cold sometimes, but it’s not that bad,” he said. “College is what you make it, and I had a good time.” 
Friendships within the team are stronger than ever, and as he approaches his last game with his friends, Walker talks about how the seniors will commemo­rate it. 
“I have a Mohawk right now, so we can’t shave our heads, but I’m sure we’ll thinking of some­thing,” Walker said. 
Closeness with his teammates has been a monumental part of Walker’s time on the team, both on and off the field. “Jonas [Gray] and [Michael] Floyd — we’re the tightest. We always hang out to­gether, everyone hangs out to­gether. It’s a blast.” 
Despite the significance of these last few games, the players have stayed focused. “Everything is team-oriented,” Walker said. “[We want to] go to the best bowl game we can go to.” 
Beyond this season’s bowl game, Walker also recognizes the importance of his relation­ships with his teammates. 
“They know everything about me; they probably know me more than my parents know me,” Walker said.
Even though Walker now lives off campus, he still enjoys the perks of a college lifestyle. 
“I’ve lived in my new apart­ment all year, and I haven’t cooked yet. I did make scrambled eggs … once,” he said. 
Those cold walks may be soon a thing of the past, but Walker maintains the driving dedication he found in David Bedingfield’s hit. 
“That [song] made me happy and I walked faster,” Walker said. “That was a good day when I listened to that song.”
Contact Meghan Thomassen at 	mthomass@nd.edu

Hafis Williams

Difficult college decision pays off for Williams

By WALKER CAREY
Sports Writer
Hafis Williams knew he was going to have a difficult decision to make when it came to his re­cruitment. The Elizabeth, N.J., native had an early offer from Notre Dame, but he also received early offers from Maryland, Penn State and Rutgers, which would have allowed him to stay closer to home. However, Williams was not the one who ultimately made his college decision.
“It was actually my grand­mother who told me where to go,” Williams said. “When she told me to go to Notre Dame, I knew I had to listen. She was definitely thinking more about life after football. She has never steered me wrong. It definitely worked out well because once I came to campus, I fell in love with it.”
Once Williams got to campus, it soon became clear to him that as a freshman he was going to preserve a year of eligibility. Wil­liams believes that decision was a major factor in his development as a player.
“As it turns out, I am really glad I was held out for that first year,” the defensive lineman said. “I got a year to sit back and learn the system. It also allowed me to get faster and stronger in the weight room, which were things I needed to do. It was also a good opportunity to go out there on the show team against the first team every day. Going up against those guys definitely made me a better player.”
During that first year, Wil­liams did not travel with the team to away games. It allowed him to develop a grasp of what being a college student was all about, he said.
“During that year with not traveling to away games, I was able to feel like a regular stu­dent,” Williams said. “It was a great thing to be able to experi­ence what a regular student does on weekends. I had some great times. It is something I will al­ways remember.”
The following season, Wil­liams made his Irish debut late in the season-opening 35-0 vic­tory over Nevada. Despite com­ing in with a large lead, Williams said he was beyond thrilled to be on the field for the first time.
“It was exciting to just go out there and get on the field for the very first time,” Williams said. “It did not matter to me that we were up by a lot. I was obviously glad we were winning. It was awesome to go out there and show how my hard work had paid off. It felt like I had really come far from not playing at all the previous season.”
Williams’ best opportunity for extended playing time came last season when senior nose guard Ian Williams missed the last five games of the regular season due to a knee injury.
“When Ian went down, it was definitely time for [senior nose guard Sean Cwynar] and I to step up,” Williams said. “It was just awesome. Those last five games were the highlight of my career here. I loved just being able to go out and play some really good football with my teammates. It definitely helped that we were able to get wins in those games. It just felt really good because I felt like the time had finally come for me to prove my skills.
Among those final five games was a road matchup with USC in which the Irish snapped an eight-game losing streak against the Trojans, a moment that stands out in Williams’ career, he said.
“The win at USC is definitely the most memorable game of my career,” Williams said. “We went there and people were counting us out, but we were able to grind through and win the game at the very end. It was very memorable. Beating them at their house was very special for us because we had not beaten them there or at all for so long. It felt unbelievable to finally get that monkey off our backs.”
One of Williams’ favorite things about his Notre Dame ca­reer has been the camaraderie that has been formed among his teammates on the defensive line.
“We have a bunch of char­acters on the defensive line, so it is easy to be loose out there,” Williams said. “We are all good friends, so it is easy to have a good time with those guys. In the locker room, it is just like a laugh factory. All of the guys on the defensive line have differ­ent personalities and it is great how we are just able to feed off each other. All of them are great. Those are my guys.”
Williams, a sociology major and computer applications mi­nor, said he is still unsure about what the future holds for him.
“I really do not know what I am going to do yet,” Williams said. “It might be time for me to get a job, but having that extra year of eligibility, I may still try to play more football. I am still think­ing about it and trying to figure it out.”
Contact Walker Carey at 	wcarey@nd.edu


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer
Senior nose guard Hafis Williams looks on during Notre Dame’s 45-21 win over Maryland in Landover, Md., on Nov. 12.





