
Tuesday, October 25, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 17, USC 31 
‘Crazy Train’ derailed 
Despite raucous Notre Dame Stadium, Irish drop to 4-3 with 31-17 loss to USC 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
With Notre Dame’s biggest rival coming to town, the first home night game since 1990 and the debuts of brand-new gold Irish helmets and piped-in stadium music, the stage was set for one of the most an­ticipated games in Notre Dame Stadium in years. 
But it was USC who finished with more points for the ninth time in 10 seasons, walking out of South Bend with a 31-17 victory. 
The Trojans (6-1) got off to a fast start against the Irish (4-3) by forcing a Notre Dame three-and-out on the game’s first drive. USC then marched 66 yards on its opening pos­session, which culminated with junior quarterback Matt Barkley finding freshman tight end Randall Telfer alone in the end zone for a 2-yard touchdown pass with 6:16 re­maining in the first quarter. 
After another Irish three-and-out, Barkley again drove the Trojans down the field and connected with sopho­more receiver Robert Woods on a 3-yard strike to push the USC margin to 14-0, leaving the once-frenzied crowd in a stunned silence. 

The first 15 minutes ended at that score, with USC hold­ing a 128-14 advantage in total yards, leaving a disappoint­ing taste in the mouths of the Irish, who had two weeks to red zone, but the drive stalled game’s biggest turning point. USC senior linebacker Chris USC also limited Irish senior prepare after a bye week. there and a 25-yard field On third-and-goal and just Galippo. The ball was ruled to receiver Michael Floyd to just 
“We had time off, we had goal from senior kicker Da-one yard away from tying the be a backwards lateral by the four catches for 28 yards. But time to rest and we played vid Ruffer sent the Irish into game, a Crist fumbled snap officials and was therefore a according to Kelly, that was sluggish,” Irish junior tight halftime with a seven-point was batted around and then fumble, resulting in USC pos-mostly due to Irish miscues. end Tyler Eifert said. “You deficit. picked up by USC junior safety session. “We were out of sync,” Kel­can’t come out and play like Despite scoring the final 10 Jawanza Starling, who re-“We thought we were past ly said. “We had Mike two or that. It cost us in the end.” points of the half, in the first turned it 80 yards to put USC that,” Kelly said. “That’s the three times and we didn’t con-
USC appeared to be ful-30 minutes the Irish were out-up 24-10. toughest part is when you nect with him.” ly in control of the contest gained 253-127 and nearly “Dayne went right in,” Irish think you’ve moved past that With Notre Dame’s pre­when freshman kicker Andre doubled in time of possession. coach Brian Kelly said. “[He] kind of self-inflicted wounds, season goal of playing in a Heidari booted a 25-yard field “Our guys came in and just did a nice job, moved us down to come back and have those BCS game likely out of reach goal late in the second quarter wanted to make sure that we there … and then we had the hit you again, it’s disappoint-now, Kelly is focused on mak­to put the Trojans up 17-0. But played really well and didn’t fumbled snap.” ing.” ing sure the Irish are ready for Irish freshman running back worry about everything else,” For what seemingly was a Barkley, who finished the the next game against Navy on George Atkinson returned the USC coach Lane Kiffin said. “It back-breaking play, the Irish day 24-for-35 for 224 yards, Saturday and not mulling over ensuing kickoff for a touch-was good to see, because usu-responded strongly. With Rees three touchdowns and zero long-term possibilities. down, bringing the stadium ally young teams don’t do well back in the game, Notre Dame interceptions, put the icing “The fact of the matter is, back to life and pulling Notre in the beginning of games in quickly moved into USC ter-on the cake by finding a div-they have got to play Navy Dame within 10 points. this type of environment, so it ritory and again came within ing Woods near the back pylon and they have to get ready in 
“Whenever a big play on spe-was good to see.” one score as senior running of the end zone on a 14-yard a short period of time,” Kelly cial teams occurs, you hope to The second half started out back Jonas Gray ran 25 yards play to put the Trojans up 31-said. “We didn’t think in big spark the whole team,” Atkin-as a different story as Notre into the end zone with 14:07 17 with 7:47 left in the game. picture terms. I’ll talk to [the son said. “I think that hap-Dame forced a USC punt and remaining in the fourth quar-Notre Dame tried to mount media] in big picture terms. pened coming out.” proceeded to move the ball ter. Following a missed 32-one final rally, but USC soph-But [the team], all they know 
It appeared the momentum down the field, looking for the yard field goal attempt from omore cornerback Nickell is Monday is not going to be a had shifted, as the Irish de-tying score, until Rees was USC’s Heidari, Notre Dame Robey intercepted Rees with great place to be around me. fense was able to get a stop on knocked out of the game with had the ball with 80 yards to 6:43 remaining. The Irish nev-Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurs-the next drive, allowing Notre a knee injury. But senior and go and 9:13 on the clock to tie er got the ball back. day — that’s what they are Dame to take over possession former starter Dayne Crist the game. The win was a dominating thinking about. They are not with just under two minutes stepped in at the quarterback But on the second play of effort by the Trojans, who fin-thinking about those bigger remaining in the half. Sopho-position and effectively went the drive, junior running ished the game with a 443-267 picture items.” more quarterback Tommy 4-for-5, marching Notre Dame back Cierre Wood dropped a advantage in yards and had Rees was able to successfully down to the USC 1-yard line. pass from Rees in the back-the ball for 39:41 of the game’s Contact Sam Gans at take the Irish offense to the Then came perhaps the field, which was fallen on by 60 minutes. sgans@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Robert Woods Notre Dame running back Woods delivered on all of his pregame hype, hauling in 12 catches for 119 yards and two touchdowns.  14 first quarter yards Notre Dame managed just 14 yards of offense in the first quarter as the Irish fell behind the Trojans 14-0 to start the game.  Jawanza Starling’s 80-yard fumble return for a touchdown The Irish were on the verge of tying the game when Starling returned a fumbled snap 80 yards to put the game away.  “We had time off, we had time to rest and we played sluggish. You can’t come out and play like that. It cost us in the end.” Tyler Eifert Notre Dame tight end  

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 25, 2011 
report card 



D+ D­C­D+ D C­D+ A­C-
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees showed signs of life in the second half, but over­all it was a rough day for the gunsling­ers, who committed two devastating turnovers that killed any hope. 
running backs: It was an abysmal night for Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray, who mustered just 43 combined yards. Wood only had five yards, and Gray’s 25-yard score was the only positive moment. 
receivers: Tyler Eifert is developing into an elite tight end, but for the rest of the receiving corps, it was a rough night. Michael Floyd especially struggled — and no one picked up the slack. 
offensive line: They may not have al­lowed a sack, but 41 rushing yards is a mortifyingly low total. Much of the shortfall in the rushing game was caused by the USC defensive line. 
defensive line: The defensive line got flat-out bullied by the Trojan front all night long. USC ran roughshod over the Irish, and Matt Barkley was rarely pressured. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o played well, as usual. But linebackers were missing assignments and tackles all across the field, and Carlo Calabrese’s personal-foul penalty really cost Notre Dame. 
defensive backs: Except for when he was matched up against Robert Blan­ton, USC’s Robert Woods had an abso­lute field day against the generally dis­organized secondary. 
special teams: Ben Turk punted well enough, and George Atkinson’s electric kick return gave the Irish life in the first half. Special teams may have been the only bright spot of the night. 
coaching: USC simply outplayed Notre Dame, and much of the blame falls on the coaches. Give Brian Kelly and his staff credit for getting the Irish to make it a game in the second half. 
overall: On the biggest stage of 
their season, the Irish fell flat. On both sides of the ball, it was 
1.59 an all-around miserable effort for Notre Dame. 

adding up the numbers 
The Irish had the ball for just 2:24 inthe fourth quarter, effectively killingany hopes of a dramatic comeback. 

2:24 
5 
USC has now won five consecutive 
contests over Notre Dame in Notre 
Dame Stadium. 
Despite coming out to a raucous en­vironment, the Irish could not muster 


a single first down in the first quarter. 

0 
22 
Since they held the ball for nearly twiceas long as the Irish, the Trojans ran 22 more offensive plays than Notre Dame. 
USC has now won nine of the last 10 meetings, with Notre Dame’s lone vic­tory coming last year in Los Angeles. 

9 
5 
The public-address system played mu­
sic for the first time, but the Stadium 


heard only five different songs. 
Despite months of hype, weeks of preparation, days of anticipation and hours of tailgating, in the end Saturday came down to 60 min­utes on the field. 
And it wasn’t even close. 
Notre Dame had all of the ad­vantages in this game. It was playing in a Notre Dame Stadium that was the loud­est it’s been in decades, if Lane Kiffin’s memories of 2005 are to be believed. It had Allan Joseph a team that had reeled off Sports Editor four straight wins, including a 59-33 thumping of Air Force. It had two weeks to rest and prepare. It was facing an inconsistent Tro­jan squad hamstrung by sanctions. It had, for once, what seemed like dominant line play. But then the game started. 

And it wasn’t even close. 
It’s perplexing, really. This was an Irish squad that seemed like it had come so far. Its first two games were, in fact, close. After shooting itself in the foot twice to open the season, Notre Dame came out and blew away a very good Michigan State squad — a Spartan team that looks better and better every single week. At the halfway point of the season, the offensive and defensive lines had been the surprises of the season. The Irish were running the ball effectively and harassing opposing quarter­backs. BCS bowls were real pos­sibilities. A 10-win season wasn’t out of the question at all. It seemed like Notre Dame was on the verge of something great. 
And it wasn’t even close. 
To be honest, the Irish were lucky to lose by only 14 points. The postgame stat sheet is positively gruesome. When a team amasses only 41 rushing yards, 25 of which came on one play, it’s really impos­sible to expect to win. The Irish only had the ball for 20 minutes total. It’s extremely difficult to fight back from a 14-point first quarter deficit when you only have 15 minutes of possession the rest of the game to do it with. 
Turning the ball over three times while not taking it away even once … well, the Irish have been down that road. Only pain­ful memories of the season opener and the Big House remain there. Still, after being outplayed and yes, outcoached in the first half, the Irish somehow, some way, kept it close. 
But when a team is in a game it shouldn’t be, it has to take advan­tage of opportunities. Notre Dame was on the wrong side of that ex­perience twice this season already. The Irish outplayed South Florida and outplayed Michigan. Those teams, however, made timely plays and pulled out victories. 
The Irish instead turned the ball over on the goal line, committed silly penalties, left the USC’s dy­namic Robert Woods all alone and turned the ball over some more. Even worse, the normally solid defensive line got manhandled on nearly every play. Save for George Atkinson’s return, every single facet of the game was miserably bad all game long — and worst when the Irish could have most used high-quality play. 
Maybe this was an anomaly. After all, Notre Dame had an en­tire half-season with two running backs rushing the ball extremely well. It had six games where the receiving corps made plays once it caught the ball. For a month and a half, the young players on the de­fensive line found a way to disrupt opposing offenses. Sure, this team struggled at times, but it looked like it was coming together in time for the biggest game of the Brian Kelly era. 
That’s what’s most troubling about Saturday’s result. After what looked like an encouraging win­ning streak, with every possible advantage on the Irish sideline and with everything to gain on the season’s biggest stage, how come it wasn’t even close? 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 







After all the hype, Irish weren’t even close 

Tuesday, October 25, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Sluggish start dooms Notre Dame 

By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After two weeks of hype, the Irish took the field for the opening kickoff Saturday night with the lights shin­ing and the Dropkick Murphys blar­ing. But from the moment the ball was kicked, USC took the upper hand. 
With the Trojans’ outgaining the Irish 128 yards to 14 yards in the first 15 minutes of play, Notre Dame fell behind USC and never recovered during Saturday’s 31-17 loss at Notre Dame Stadium. 
“We started poorly,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “I just told our team that, you know, very disappointed in the way we played the first half. Slop­py football. Didn’t tackle well. Tim­ing was off. Just unacceptable for the amount of time we had off to play that way in the first half.” 
In the subsequent quarters, the Irish were able to string together a few scoring plays and worked their way up to almost evening the score before a turnover at the one-yard­line sent the Trojans ahead. Though the remaining quarters fared bet­ter for Notre Dame, USC’s 17-0 lead midway through the second quarter made any chance of an Irish win un­likely, and their lack of momentum showed. 
“I thought, again, you can precisely know the times when we got in good rhythm. We were running the ball in the third quarter and were very effective in mixing things up,” Kelly said. “Early on, we didn’t get in that kind of rhythm because we got down 14-0.” 

In the previous six opening quar­ters of the 2011 season, the Irish (4-3) averaged 6.9 yards per play, while the opposing teams averaged 4.8 yards. Against the Trojans, Notre Dame maintained an uncharacteristic 1.8 yards per play in the first quarter, while USC averaged 6.7 for two touch­downs by the end of the first period. 
“This is the first time that I’ve leaned on my guys pretty hard in the locker room,” Kelly said. “I was not happy because we are better than that. We are better than that. And, to turn the ball over in the ri­diculous fashion that we have, it just, just, makes me crazy. I just don’t un­derstand how something so easy can come out the way it does.” 
The loss ended Notre Dame’s four-game win streak and revealed a team largely reminiscent of the first two games of the season, which were the team’s only previous losses. 
“We went away from what we did the previous four games, paying at­tention to detail and playing with poise,” senior running back Jonas Gray said. “Along the way we made a lot of mistakes on both sides of the ball, and we just didn’t make enough plays to win.” 
Fresh off of its bye week, Notre Dame’s on-field rust during the first quarter came at an inopportune time for Kelly, who said that the flaws could not have been from the two-week break. 
“I’m certainly not going to go back and second guess the way I’ve pre­pared over 21 years in a bye week,” Kelly said. “Sometimes there’s some accountability from everybody, coaches and players alike and some­times it falls on us a group, all of us. But they just they didn’t play as well as they needed to play.” 
Individual responsibility, rather than any bye-week preparations or coaching leadership, were at the root of the problem for Notre Dame’s early lack of energy, Gray said. 
“The coaches did a great job in pre­paring us,” Gray said. “For whatever reason, we didn’t come out with that urgency. 
“We regressed a bit, and we didn’t do the things that we did the previ­ous four games. We’re just back to the drawing board.” 
Though the environment may have added pressure on the Irish, the an­swer to Notre Dame’s weakness was simple, junior tight end Tyler Eifert said. 
“It was just not executing,” Eifert said. “You can make all the excuses you want, that we had time off, that we were rusty or that they hyped this game up so much and took our focus off what was really important, but I don’t think any of that. We just didn’t execute and go out the way we had to.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 




Atkinson’s kick return sets records 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Freshman running back George Atkinson’s 96-yard touchdown kickoff return was the longest at Notre Dame Stadium since Julius Jones’ 100-yard runback against Nebraska in 2000. Atkinson’s re­turn just three minutes before the half is tied for the fifth lon­gest in stadium history. Atkinson is one of four players in the NCAA that has two kickoff returns for scores in 2011, and his pair of touchdowns matches the pro­gram record. 
Rees’ streak snapped 
Sophomore quarterback Tom­my Rees closed his streak of con­secutive games with a completed touchdown pass after 11 games. Brady Quinn and Jimmy Clausen are the only other quarterbacks in program history with longer records. Quinn’s 16 passes earned him the first place slot, above Clausen’s 13.  Rees also threw his first interception in 135 passes, the third longest streak in Notre Dame football history. 

First quarter struggles 
The Trojans are the first team this season to outgain the Irish in the first quarter. Before the loss against USC, Notre Dame av­eraged 6.9 yards per play while their previous opponents gained a combined average of 4.8 yards. 
USC outgained the Irish 128­14 in the first period of play and completed eight first downs be­fore Notre Dame’s first.  The first quarter’s 14 yards were a team low among all the quarters in Notre Dame’s seven games in 2011. 
Night game numbers 
After their first night game at home in 21 years, the Irish dropped their overall night game record to 6-2 at Notre Dame Sta­dium, a .646 percentage. Overall, Notre Dame has faced USC and Miami (Fla.) most often in night games with 11 night games each. Against the Trojans at night, the Irish are 3-7-1. The six night games on the schedule this sea­son mark a Notre Dame record. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
USC   14  3  7  7  31  
ND  0  10  0  7  17  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, USC 7 
Randall Teifer 2-yd pass from Matt Barkley (AndreHeidari kick) with 7:39 remainingDrive: 13 plays, 66 yards, 7:39 elapsed 
Notre Dame 0, USC 14 
Robert Woods 3-yd pass from Matt Barkley (AndreHeidari kick) with 1:01 remainingDrive: 6 plays, 62 yards, 2:47 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 0, USC 17 
Andre Heidari 25-yd field goal with 3:34 remaining
Drive: 14 plays, 68 yards, 4:54 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, USC 17 
George Atkinson 96-yd kickoff return (David Rufferkick) with 3:22 remainingDrive: 1 play, 96 yards, 0:12 elapsed 
Notre Dame 10, USC 17 

David Ruffer 25-yd field goal with 0:21 remaining
Drive: 10 plays, 68 yards, 1:34 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 10, USC 24 
Juwanza Starling 80-yd fumble recovery (AndreHeidari kick) with 0:53 remaining 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 17, USC 24 
Jonas Gray 25-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 14:07remainingDrive: 5 plays, 62 yards, 1:46 remaining 
Notre Dame 17, USC 31 
Robert Woods 14-yd pass from Matt Barkley (AndreHeidari kick) with 7:47 remainingDrive: 3 plays, 18 yards, 0:59 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 


passing yards 


time of possession passing 


Rees            23-37-190  Barkley  24-35-224 
rushing 

Gray                       4-38 McNeal    24-118 Wood          5-5  Tyler        13-67 
receiving 

Eifert  7-66 Woods  12-119 Wood         6-41 Lee        2-36 
field goals 

Ruffer         1-1   Heidari       1-2 
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 25, 2011 


Same old story 
Despite an electric environment at Notre Dame’s first home night game in 21 years, USC jumped out to a fast start and never let the Irish catch up, claiming the Trojans’ fifth consecutive victory in South Bend. While Notre Dame fought to catch up in the second half, an untimely fumble from senior quarterback Dayne Crist less than five yards from scoring a game-winning touchdown swung the momentum back to USC. The Irish never had another true shot at catching the Trojans, who dominated nearly every statistical category in a complete victory that dropped the Irish to 4-3 on the season. 
JAMES DOAN/The Observer 



JAMES DOAN/The Observer JAMES DOAN/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Linebacker Manti Te’o and safety Harrison Smith tackle USC running back Curtis McNeal; Te’o pursues Trojan quarterback Matt Barkley; running back Cierre Wood searches for running room; receiver Michael Floyd fights to catch a ball; running back George Atkinson breaks free for a touchdown on a kick return. 


