the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Notre Dame sophomore dies 
Keenan Hall gathers to honor peer in dorm Mass; student remembered as easygoing, passionate 

By SAM STRYKER and 
MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editors 
Sophomore Sean Valero, described by friends as a quiet and hardworking student, died last week. He was 21. 
Valero, originally from Niskayuna, N.Y., was a resident of Keenan Hall and a double major in pre-professional stud­ies and philosophy. 
Sophomore Stephen 
Schwaner 
said Valero 
was both 
easygoing 
and 
thoughtful, 
and he val­
ued his 
friendships 
within 
Keenan. 
Valero 
loved to joke around with 

friends and had “a really big, kinda goofy smile,” Schwaner said, but he would also often engage his friends in philo­sophical debates. 
“Although he could be really goofy and joke around with us, he was pensive and intellectual too,” he said. “It seemed like philosophy was one of his favorite subjects, and he told me that it was one of his favorite classes.” 
While Valero was more intro­verted than outgoing, Schwaner said he most enjoyed spending time in the dorm with his friends. 
“He was a really good guy, and had a really good heart,” he said. “Every single person that he did meet seemed to take an immediate liking to him.” 
Valero earned an affectionate nickname from his friends 
see VALERO/page 5 



University awards Medal 
Observer Staff Report 
Sr. Mary Scullion and Joan McConnon, co-founders of Project H.O.M.E, will jointly receive the Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics, during the 2011 Comme ­ncement ceremony on May 22, the University announced Sunday in a press release. 
The Laetare Medal is the University’s highest honor and is awarded annually to a Catholic “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sci­ences, illustrat­ed the ideals of the Church and enriched the her­itage of humanity,” the University press release said. 
Project H.O.M.E (Housing, 


see MEDAL/page 4 



Observer awarded third at conference 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer won third place in the Division I “Newspaper of the Year” category at the Indiana College Press Association (ICPA) awards ceremony, held Saturday at Indiana University in Bloomington. 
The Observer staff won an additional ten awards. Other University publications represent­ed at ICPA were Scholastic, which won second place in “News Magazine of the Year,” Dome, which won second place in “Yearbook of the Year” and The Juggler, which tied for first place in “Literary Magazine of the Year.” 
Former News Editors Sarah Mervosh and Laura McCrystal took second place in “Breaking News Reporting” for their cover­age of junior Declan Sullivan’s funeral and second place in “Non­deadline News Reporting” for their story covering off-campus relations involving the South Bend police titled “Students respond to arrests.” 
McCrystal also took third place in the category for her article “Gay alumni to present awards.” 
Mervosh, who currently serves 
see ICPA/page 4 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL UPSETS CONNECTICUT; HEADED TO TITLE GAME 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC to host Hunger Banquet page 3  Viewpoint page 8  The Two Gentlemen of Verona page 10  Women’s Basketball advances page 20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, April 4, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Chris Allen Nicole Toczauer Eric Prister Tori Roeck Kelsey Manning Graphics Matthew Defranks Melissa Kaduek Scene Photo Ankur Chawla Dan Jacobs Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 


Question: If you could be an ice cream flavor, which one would you be? 
Kelsey: Cookies ‘n Cream 
Q: 
You’re on a lifeboat with 10 people, but you only have food for nine. What do you do? 

Kelsey: Fish 

Q: 
Do you dream in black and white or color? 



Kelsey: Color 


Q: Would you rather have enough money to buy whatev­er house you wanted or enough money to travel? 

Kelsey: Travel, so I can eat! 

Q: What’s your least favorite TV show? 
Kelsey: “Jersey Shore”... 

Q: What’s something you’re secretly afraid of? 

Kelsey Tan 
Kelsey: The red chicken in North Dining Hall 
freshm an Farley 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer The Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis awaits the arrival of fans and teams for the Final Four matchups Sunday night. Texas A&M topped Stanford on a last-sec­ond bucket in the first game, and Notre Dame defeated defending champion Connecticut during the nightcap. 
OFFBEAT 
Mass public pillow fights take place in multiple cities 
LONDON – People in cities across the globe have taken part in mass pillow fights as part of International Pillow Fight Day. 
In London’s Trafalgar Square, people came dressed in pajamas, dress­ing gowns and fancy dress to take part in the good natured pillowfight Saturday afternoon. Most people carried feather-filled pillows that exploded as they fought. 
London’s Metropolitan Police said Sunday that the event had been peaceful and they had no reports of any trouble. 
Organizers listed similar 



Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Today is the first day of the three-day “Dimensions of Goodness Conference” spon­sored by the Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study. The conference will explore the subject of “the good” through both lectures and discussion. The conference will take place all day in the Notre Dame Conference Center in McKenna Hall. 
No Impact Week, sponsored by the Office of Sustainability, con­tinues today. There will be a Water Bottle Pledge in the Elevator Lobby of LaFortune Student Center from 4 to 6 p.m. today. Volunteers will be collect­ing students’ pledges to not pur­chase disposable water bottles. 
David Lummus, Assistant Professor of Italian at Yale University, will give a lecture today titled “Alberto Mussato and the Politics of Poetry in Fourteenth-Century Italy” in the Hesburgh Library from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. The talk, sponsored by the Department of Italian studies, will explore Lummus’s research. 
Howard Stone, the Donald R. Dixon and Elizabeth W. Dixon Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Princeton University, will give a lecture titled “Surprises with Laminar Viscous Flows” tomor­row from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall room 258. 
The annual “Battle of the Bend” men’s baseball exhibition game against the South Bend Silverhawks will take place tomorrow in Eck Baseball Stadium at 5:30 p.m. Tickets are free but donations will be accept­ed for the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation at the gates. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 
events in more than 130 cities around the world. 
The fights were organ­ized by The Urban Playground Movement which wants to encourage people to make use of pub­lic spaces. 
Man struggles to sell personal Staten Island ferry 
NEW YORK – A man who bought a used 300-foot Staten Island Ferry to con­vert it into a waterborne dorm for New York college students is drowning in a bad case of buyer’s remorse. 
Former marina owner Jacques Guillet bought the orange ferry for $162,000 at a closed-bid auction three years ago. 
But he’s failed to find an affordable parking spot along the area’s water­front for the 3,500-passen­ger boat, named the Gov. Herbert H. Lehman. The city wanted to charge him $1,000 a day. 
Now he’s paying $6,000 a month to dock it in Staten Island. 
He tells The Wall Street Journal in Saturday edi­tions that he’s trying to sell the ferry. Any buyer would need to deal with compli­cated logistics, including the boat’s size. 
There were no bids when he advertised it on eBay. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Today Tonight tuesday wednesday 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 45 LOW 32 LOW 38 LOW 39 LOW 46 LOW 48 

Monday, April 4, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Right to Life hosts shower 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students in the Right to Life Club supported soon-to-be mothers who decided to have their children with the Project Mom Baby Shower Saturday. 
“These are all women that considered abortion at some point in their pregnancies and decided instead to have their babies,” coordinator Kellie Raddell said. “We want to say as the Right to Life Club, ‘We’re really glad you decided to have your babies, and we’re going to help you do it.’” 
About 80 students collabo­rated to provide gifts and activities for the six mothers-to-be at the shower, which took place from 12 to 2 p.m. in Lewis Hall. The event was co-sponsored by the Right to Life Club, Lewis Hall, the Fund for Life, University Life Initiatives and the Institute for Church Life. 
“There are three [locations of the] Women’s Care Center in South Bend, and all of the women have come there for some type of assistance dur­ing their pregnancies,” Raddell said. “Now most of the women are in their sixth or seventh month of pregnan­cy, and their family and friends don’t have the money to put on a baby shower for them, so we put on this show­er so they can have basic baby supplies.” 
Raddell said students wel­comed the mothers-to-be when they arrived and min­gled and ate with them. Everyone then played games, which allowed the women and students to get to know each other. 

During one of the games, students blindfolded the mothers-to-be and handed them their gifts, and the women guessed what they were, Raddell said. The women then opened their gifts and held them up for the shower participants to see. 
“Each woman received the exact same sort of gifts, rang­ing from all the little stuff like a teething ring, a sippy cup, baby wipes and baby powder to big items like a baby bath, a diaper bag, a stroller, and a car seat,” Raddell said. 
Raddell said the shower participants also played a game of Bingo in which each square had the name of a baby item in it. 
“[The mothers-to-be] were very appreciative, and I don’t think they expected this much,” Raddell said. “A cou­ple of them brought children and friends with them.” 
Raddell said one of the mothers-to-be who attended the fall semester’s Project Mom Baby Shower came to Saturday’s shower with her baby. 

“He was using the blankets that we had donated … [and] one of the toys that we had given him,” she said. “It was really nice to see the people we had been helping and see that the babies are using our gifts.” 
Raddell said the most rewarding part of coordinat­ing the Project Mom Baby Shower was seeing the stu­dents leave their comfort zones in order to interact with the mothers-to-be. 
“[The shower] was very successful,” she said. “This event has grown from three people two years ago, to 25 or 30 in the fall, to 50 in the spring. It was great to be a part of CommUniversity Day because we were joining with everybody else that was giv­ing to the community.” 


Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Co-op supports local growers and families 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
The Monroe Park Grocery Co-op, a co-op created by stu­dents through a theology class, had its first market day at the Our Lady of the Road Catholic Worker House Saturday. 
Sophomore Kathryn Chew said the class, “Synergos: The Theology of Food Co-Ops,” helped connect Catholic tra­dition with food. The class was designed to help get this food co-op off the ground. 
“People in Monroe Park have trouble getting access to healthy food, ” Chew said. “They have to take the bus and then carry their gro ­ceries home, so they can’t always buy a lot. We are try­ing to get local growers to get the food to a reasonable loca­tion.” 
Professor Margaret Pfeil and Bert Fitzgerald, who works with the Catholic Worker House, led the group of students in their initiative. 
All of the students were separated into groups. The students were given different tasks to help the co-operative grow. Chew is a member of the communications group, whose job is to help spread the word about the project by designing the group logo and signs to advertise the project. Other groups worked in com­munity outreach, going door-to-door asking what services the community wanted or helping get local growers and farmers involved. 
“Our class really helped by doing a lot of the logistics and planning, like building a web­site and business plan,” Chew said. “This co-op has been in the process for awhile and our class was designed to get more people aware.” 
The first market day went well and Chew said the class hopes the project will contin­ue to grow. All of the foods 
offered are low cost and healthy, and include staples from five food groups. Some essential household items will also be available for purchase and the market day will be able to replace trips to a large grocer for three weeks a month. 
“Everything is still in the making, but there were a lot of students who came out for CommUniversity to help for the first day,” Chew said. 
To make this truly a com­munity activity, anyone who wants to become a member of the co-op has to donate two to three hours of their time each month, Chew said. Eventually, market day will become a place for communi­ty bonding and will include food demonstrations, recipe sharing and maybe even local bands. 
“Our goal is really to have the people in the community take over this project,” Chew said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 




Student films mass, works with NDtv 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s junior Stephanie Cherpak spends many Sunday mornings at Mass like her Catholic peers. What distinguishes her, how­ever, is that she is usually watching the Mass behind the lens of a camera. 
Cherpak works for Pentavision, a company that helps stream the Basilica Mass live each week on www.NDprayercast.org, and also archives it on an iTunesU podcast . 
“At the beginning of the year, one of my co-workers from NDtv, Erin Zacek, was talking about the lack of workers at her Sunday morn­ing job filming Mass at the Basilica,” Cherpak said. “I asked her how I could get involved because, as a Mass Communications and Religious Studies double ­major, I thought the job fit in well with my interests.” 
The website, started by Folk Choir director Steve Warner, includes weekly reflection and sacred music, according to Daniel Skendzel, who hires students to work the techni­cal production of the Mass. 
“There are three positions required to stream the Mass: a camera operator, an audio specialist and a director,” he said. 
Camera operators, like Cherpak, control six robotic cameras in the Basilica, while the audio specialist ensures proper audio levels and the director calls the sequence of video shots and the associat­ed audio. 
Cherpak said that besides merging both of her majors, the job also provides her a great opportunity to get expe­rience shooting live shows. In addition to this film experi­ence, Cherpak is in the third semester of producing “Dining In,” a cooking show on NDtv, and also produced a video journal and documen­tary called “NDtv Abroad: Italy.” The journal showcased the Saint Mary’s College Rome Program and allowed her to capture her own expe­riences, including attending a Mass presided over by Pope Benedict XIV in Vatican City on Easter Sunday. 
Cherpak is exploring a career in religious broadcast­ing. 
“I would like to utilize and expand upon my knowledge and experience with both my Religious Studies and Mass Communications majors,” she said. 


Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 4, 2011 

SMC walks to feed the hungry of South Bend 
By ABIGAIL FORNEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College raised $100 and 150 cans and boxes of food Sunday at their third annual “Yes We Can!” Walk for the Hungry. 
The purpose of the event was to raise awareness among the cam-knowing the event would take place even if it rained. Student Maire Ready said that if it did, she would still be out walking because the Walk for the Hungry supported a good cause. 
“It’s the little actions — they take a minute of our time,” Ready said. 
Alicia Grumley, one of the event’s organizers, looked to the 

pus community about the poverty in South Bend, Ind., and help raise food for local food pantries, said Carla Leal, one of the event’s organizers. 
Leal said stu­dents are in the Saint Mary’s “bubble” and 

“It is our responsibility and our call to feed the hungry.” 
Maire Ready senior Opus 
Koran, Judaism and Christianity to support the event’s message, and said that all three call for fol­lowers to assist the less fortunate. 
“It is our responsibility and our call to feed the hungry,” Grumley said. 
The entire 

don’t encounter people who need group walked from the Saint help even when they do go off Mary’s Student Center, down the campus. Avenue to the Grotto. All partici-The city of South Bend has a pants were invited to say a prayer 
high poverty rate  or light a candle  
and most of the  before walking  
schools are Title1, which means they have a high per­centage of stu­ “It’s the little actions — they take a minute of our time.”  back to Saint Marys as a group. The Office for  
dents in poverty  Civic and Social  
or at risk for poverty, Leal said. These students  Maire Ready senior  E n g a g e m e n t s (OCSE), which started the Walk  
and families are  Opus  for the Hungry  

the people local food pantries serve through the Catholic Charities network. 
Students working for the Walk for the Hungry event believe that even if they can’t stop hunger worldwide or nationwide, they can work toward stopping hunger in South Bend, Leal said. 
Fifty people showed up for the walk in spite of bad weather, three years ago, 
was pleased with how many people participated in the event and hope it will contin­ue to grow. 
The food and money the event raised will be donated to local food pantries through Catholic Charities. 
Contact Abigail Forney at aforne02@saintmarys.edu 


Medal 
continued from page 1 
Opportunities for Employment, Medical Care and Education) is an organization dedicated to ending homelessness in Philadelphia. Scullion serves as executive director for Project H.O.M.E., and McConnon is the associate executive director and chief financial officer. 
“In their work for the home­less in Philadelphia, Sister Scullion and Joan McConnon have splendidly answered the Gospel summons to brotherly love,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said. “Serving the unsheltered Lord on the streets of their hometown, they have provided an exam­ple for others to serve likewise in cities worldwide.” 
Scullion and McConnon, both Philadelphia natives, founded Project H.O.M.E. in 1989, according to the release. Project H.O.M.E. began provid­ing emergency shelter for about 50 homeless men and grew to form a community for chronically homeless men and women. The project provides them with food, clothing, med­ical care, employment and a sense of dignity, the release stated. 
Project H.O.M.E. now includes 480 units of housing and two businesses that pro­vide employment for formerly homeless people. Scullion and McConnon developed the proj­ect into a national model for community development in low-income neighborhoods. The two initiated renovation of inner city vacant lots, econom­ic development, home-owner­ship initiatives for working poor families and education and employment programs for youth and adults. 
According to the release, of the homeless who participate in their project, 95 percent have not returned to the streets. Project H.O.M.E. is widely credited for reducing Philadelphia’s homeless popu­lation by half. 
The daughter of Irish immi­grants, Sr. Scullion entered the Sisters of Mercy in 1976 after graduating from St. Joseph’s University. She earned a mas­ter’s degree in social work from Temple University in 1986. 
Joan McConnan graduated from Pennsylvania State University and earned a mas­ter’s degree in taxation from Drexel University in 1989. She returned to Philadelphia to work with the homeless after six years as an accountant. 
The Laetare Medal is named for Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. The University traditionally announces its recipient on this day. The award began in 1883. 
The last recipient of the Laetare Medal was poet Dana Gioia in 2010. Past recipients include operatic tenor John McCormack, United States President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day and Cardinal Joseph Bernadin. 


ICPA 
continued from page 1 
as Managing Editor, took third place in the category of “In-depth Story” for her story “Victims, administration speak on sexual assault” and second place in “News or Feature Series” for “Muslim students at Notre Dame.” 
The Editorial Board of The Observer took third place in the category of “Staff Editorial” for “University should not impede activism.” 
Former Sports Editor and cur­rent Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer won third place in the category of “Sports Feature Story” for his article “Walk-on, walkoff” about former Irish kick­er David Ruffer. 
Former Managing Editor Madeline Buckley won third place for “Sports News Story” for her coverage of Fighting Irish football coach Brian Kelly’s press conference following junior Declan Sullivan’s death, “Kelly addresses Sullivan’s death.” 
Photography Editor Pat Coveney and former Graphics Editor Blair Chemidlin won third place for “Special Section Cover” for their portrait of Fighting Irish linebacker Manti Te’o, “Family man.” 
Coveney and Former Photography Editor Dan Jacobs won third place for “Photo Essay/Picture Story” for “Notre Dame vs. Army game in NYC.” 
The Observer’s award-winning submissions are available on its website, ndsmcobserver.com. 

Monday, April 4, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 5 
he said. “That desire showed events. After Valero took a Friday evening. Keenan Hall’s community in a press release me how much he loved learn-leave last semester, Nolan said Holy Cross Chapel was full as Friday to keep Valero and his 


Valero 
continued from page 1 
when he wore pajama pants to spend time outside of Keenan, Schwaner said. 
“We started calling him ‘PJ Sean,’” he said. “It fit in per­fectly with his personality because he was easygoing.” 
Sophomore Gabe De Vela met Valero when the two lived in the same section in Keenan during their freshman year. He planned to room with Valero in the fall. 
De Vela said Valero had an “eager” passion for academics. 
“Sean wanted to be a doctor,” ing and how compassionate he was for others.” 
Valero hoped to be a neuro­surgeon after graduation, De Vela said. 
Keenan rector Fr. Dan Nolan said Valero was a dedicated student. 
“He spent a lot of time study­ing,” he said. “It was not unusual to see him running down late at night to get a paper he wrote from the print­er.” 
The sophomore loved being a part of Keenan, Nolan said. While he was usually not a leader inside the community, he was often present at dorm 


he expressed interest in return-members of the Notre Dame ing to the residence hall. community gathered to remem­“He wrote to me in ber Valero. After mass, student December, late November, and government hosted a meal of 
told me he really  pizza and pop in  
wanted to come  honor  of  
back to Keenan,”  “Sean wanted to be a  Valero.  
he said. Nolan Valero  said looked  doctor. That desire showed me how much  Nolan said the residents of Keenan are  
forward  to  his  he loved learning and  coming to grips  
u p c o m i n g months at Notre Dame.  how compassionate he was for others.”  with their peer’s death in differ­ent ways.  
“He felt really  “In  talking  
good about next  Gabe De Vela  with some of the  
semester,” he said. Nolan said he  sophomore Keenan  guys, many of them have never e x p e r i e n c e d  
called  Keenan  death before,”  

hall staff together early Friday he said. “This is the first time a morning and then notified lot of the guys have experi­Valero’s roommates of his enced the death of a peer. This death. Nolan said he emailed causes some time to pause and the members of the residence realize how fragile life can hall within a few hours. be.” 
The members of Keenan Hall University President Fr. John gathered for a dorm Mass Jenkins asked the Notre Dame family in their prayers. 
“On behalf of the Notre Dame community, my deepest condo­lences go out to Sean’s family and friends,” Jenkins said. “My prayers are with them during this difficult time.” 
Valero’s body was found late Thursday night in the area near campus lakes, the release stated. The St. Joseph County coroner’s office ruled Valero’s death a suicide. 
A visitation in Valero’s memo­ry will be held Wednesday at the Daly Funeral Home, located at 242 McClellan Street in Schenectady, N.Y., from 4 to 7 p.m. 
A Funeral Mass will be held Thursday at 9 a.m. at St. Helen’s Catholic Church in Schenectady on 2216 Rosa Road. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu and Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
LIBYA 
Envoy seeks to end nation’s crisis 
Associated Press 
BENGHAZI — An envoy of Moammar Gadhafi told Greece’s prime minister Sunday that the Libyan leader was seeking a way out of his country’s crisis two weeks after his govern­ment’s attacks to put down a rebellion drew international airstrikes, Greek officials said. 
Abdul-Ati al-Obeidi, a former Libyan prime minister who has served as a Gadhafi envoy dur­ing the crisis, will travel next to Turkey and Malta in a sign that Gadhafi’s regime may be soften­ing its hard line in the face of the sustained attacks. 
“From the Libyan envoy’s comments it appears that the regime is seeking a solution,” Greek Foreign Minister Dimitris Droutsas said in a statement after the meeting in Athens. 
The foreign minister said the Greek side stressed the interna­tional community’s call for Libya to comply with the U.N. resolu­tion that authorized the airstrikes and demanded Gadhafi and the rebels end hos­tilities. 
The message, Droutsas said, was: “Full respect and imple­mentation of the United Nations decisions, an immediate cease­fire, an end to violence and hos­tilities, particularly against the civilian population of Libya.” 
Gadhafi’s government has declared several cease-fires but has not abided by them. 
Few other details of the Athens talks were released pub­lically. 
On Friday, the Libyan envoy had said Gadhafi’s government was attempting to hold talks with the U.S., Britain and France in an effort to halt the international airstrikes that began March 19 and which have pounded Libya’s troops and armor and grounded its air force. 
Gadhafi’s superior forces had been close to taking the rebel capital of Benghazi in eastern Libya before the international military campaign. 
Rebel forces made up of defected army units and armed civilians have since seized much of Libya’s eastern coast, but have been unable to push west­ward toward the capital, Tripoli. 
On Sunday, Gadhafi’s forces pressed on with attacks against Misrata, the last key city in the western half of the country still largely under rebel control despite a weeks-long assault. 
Government troops besieged civilian areas for around two hours Sunday morning with Grad rockets and mortar shells and lined a main street with snipers, said a doctor in the city. 
Two shells landed on a field hospital, killing one person and injuring 11, he said. The attacks, including tank fire, began again after nightfall, he said. He did not want to be iden­tified by name out of fear for his security. 
A Turkish ship carrying 250 wounded from Misrata docked in Benghazi Sunday. The boat, which carried medical supplies, was also expected to pick up around 60 wounded people being treated in various hospi­tals in Benghazi, as well as 30 Turks and 40 people from Greece, Ukraine, Britain, Uzbekistan, Germany and Finland. 
A leader of the rebel move­ment, meanwhile, sought to ease concerns from Western governments about its character and goals, emphasizing in an interview that the rebels will not allow Islamic extremists to hijack their plans to install a parliamentary democracy in place of Gadhafi’s four-decade rule. 
The issue takes on added importance as Western officials debate whether to send the rebels weaponry in an attempt to help them gain the upper hand over Gadhafi’s superior troops. 
“Libyans as a whole — and I am one of them — want a civil­ian democracy, not dictatorship, not tribalism and not one based on violence or terrorism,” said Abdel-Hafidh Ghoga, vice chair­man of the opposition’s National Provisional Council. 
The council, based in Benghazi, was formed to repre­sent the opposition in the east­ern Libyan cities that shook off control of the central govern­ment in a series of popular uprisings that began Feb. 15. 
In Washington, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee in the House of Representatives was among several key lawmak­ers cautioning that the U.S. and its allies needed to know much more about the rebel forces before providing them with weapons. 
Mike Rogers, a Republican from Michigan, said on NBC television’s “Meet the Press” that there may be strains of al-Qaida within the rebel ranks and the NATO-led coalition in the campaign against Gadhafi should proceed with caution before arming them. 
Libya’s opposition has said any extremists among their ranks would be few in number, and Gadhafi’s own punishing cam­paigns crushed Islamic militants in the country years ago. 
British Foreign Secretary William Hague said Sunday that his country would neither arm the rebels nor send ground troops to Libya. 


page 6 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 4, 2011 
JAPAN 

Disasters stress children 
Associated Press 
KARAKUWA — Zoom in for a snapshot of apparent normal­cy: children sitting in a circle, clasping playing cards tightly in their hands. They laugh, chat and occasionally hop up to break into a goofy dance. 
Zoom out and the picture changes: The children are kneeling on mattresses in a chilly classroom they now call home. An elderly woman cries nearby, wondering whether her mother was killed by Japan’s tsunami. Outside the school, a teacher fiddles with a radiation detector, checking to ensure the levels aren’t high enough to make them sick — or worse. 
Behind the smiling faces of thousands of children in shel­ters across this wave-battered wasteland, experts say there is often serious anxiety as every­thing these youngsters once held as normal is suddenly anything but. 
“That’s what is so wonderful­
ly adaptive about children. They can move very easily into playing or laughing,” says psy­chologist Susie Burke, a disas­ter response specialist with the Australian Psychological Society. “But that’s not saying they’re not deeply distressed and upset about what’s going on.” 
Reminders of the tiniest vic­tims are scattered throughout the wreckage: a little girl’s white shoe caked in mud, a red rubber ball coated in dust, a sodden comic book whose ink has run. 
As many as 25,000 people may have been killed in the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that devastated Japan’s northeast coast and damaged a nuclear plant, sending radiation spewing into the environment. Tens of thou­sands are still living in shel­ters. 
For the children, the monster in the closet has been replaced by the monster of Mother Nature: The ground they play on can rattle and crack, the ocean they swim in can morph into a killer wave, the air they breathe might carry harmful radioactive particles. 
Ten-year-old Fumie Unoura remembers well the terror of the day. She was sitting in class when the earth began to shake, sending her and her classmates scrambling under their desks for cover. When the rumbling stopped, the teacher shepherded the students out­side, where their town had turned to rubble. 
“I saw the dust rising up,” she recalled days later, stand­ing outside a shelter in the shattered coastal city of Rikuzentakata. 
With the tsunami coming, she ran as fast as her short legs could carry her, surround­ed by others sprinting for safe­ty. 
She escaped with her life but little else. Her home is ruined. She sleeps on the floor of a school gym with her family and more than a thousand other survivors. She misses her Nintendo DS. 
Her father, Masanari Unoura, volunteers at the shelter. He worries constantly about what will become of his life, where they will live, how he will clean up the ruins of their home. 
“We parents have a lot to think about,” he says. “Whereas the kids are basical­ly free.” 
It is not so simple, experts say. In fact, the disruption of daily life, if prolonged, can be more damaging than the disas­ter itself, says psychologist Gaithri Fernando, who led a study on how the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami affected chil­dren in Sri Lanka. 
Suddenly discovering they have no water to bathe, no bed of their own and no school where they can see their friends can be highly upset­ting, says Fernando, a profes­sor at California State University in Los Angeles. 
Experts say getting children back into a routine — even an unusual one — is key. 
Unoura and his family are doing this. Every morning, they join others at the shelter for group exercise sessions broad­cast on the radio. They have breakfast as a family, and then Fumie and her older sister Shiho have time to play until they all meet for lunch. Fumie’s teacher stops by regu­larly with homework assign­ments — a source of complaint for his daughter, her father notes with a grin. 
That kind of basic structure to the day helps prevent long­term psychological damage, says Burke, the Australian psy­chologist. 
“It gives them a sense that their world is predictable, and when we feel things are pre­dictable, we begin to relax,” she says. “A disaster makes us realize or think the world isn’t predictable.” 
Save the Children, an inter­national aid agency, has set up safe spaces for children to meet and play throughout the tsunami zone, with toys, games, crayons and paper. 
“The stories they were shar­ing with me were about first an earthquake, then a tsunami and now their fears for radia­tion,” says Ian Woolverton, a spokesman for the group. But one fear reigned supreme, he says: “Being alone is the thing they’re most afraid of.” 
AFGHANISTAN 
Quran protests spread protesters’ day of rage 
Associated Press 
JALALABAD — Demonstrators battled police in southern Afghanistan’s main city on Sunday and took to the streets in the turbulent east for the first time as Western pleas failed to halt a third day of rage over a Florida pastor’s burning of the Quran. 
An officer was shot dead in a second day of clashes in the city of Kandahar, said provin­cial health director Qayum Pokhla. Two officers and 18 civilians were wounded, he said. 
In Jalalabad, the largest city in the east, hundreds of people blocked the main highway for three hours, shouting for U.S. troops to leave, burning an effigy of President Barack Obama and stomping on a drawing of a U.S. flag. More than 1,000 people set tires ablaze to block another high­way in eastern Parwan province for about an hour, said provincial police chief Sher Ahmad Maladani. 
The violence was set off by anger over the March 20 burn­ing of the Quran by a Florida church — the same church whose pastor had threatened to do so last year on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, triggering worldwide outrage. 
The protests, which began Friday, also appear to be fueled more broadly by the resentment that has been building for years in Afghanistan over the opera­tions of Western military forces, blamed for killing and mistreating civilians, and inter­national contractors, seen by many as enriching themselves and fueling corruption at the expense of ordinary Afghans. 
DANTE’S DIVINE COMEDY: THE CHRISTI.AN UNIVERSE AS POETRY 
Professor Zygmunt BaranskiNotre Dame Professor of Dante and Italian Studies Fall of 2011 (TR from 2:15-3:00pm)(LLRO 40114-01; MI 40565; ROIT 40114) 

   Dante is the greatest religious poet of Western culture, and his great epic poem, the Divine Comedy, offers a remarkable and original synthesis of his view of the fundamental relationship between God and humanity. The course offers an introduction to Dante’s Commedia (the title of the poem is Comedy and not Divine Comedy as is commonly believed) by focusing on the frst of its three parts, Inferno, while also paying signifcant attention to its other two parts, Purgatorio and Paradiso. Classes will principally concentrate on providing readings of individual cantos. (The course will be divided into 4 introductory lectures, 12 classes on Inferno,7 on Purgatory, and 6 on Paradiso.) At the same time, broader issues central to Dante’s masterpiece will be discussed. In particular, attention will be paid to Dante’s ties to classical and Christian culture, his political views, his ideas on language, his involvement in contemporary intellectual debates, his efforts to use poetry for ethical and religious ends, and his literary experimentation (including his perplexing choice of title for hismasterpiece). The course is open to all second-, third-, and fourth-year students, and will be taught in English.Dante’s poem, too, will be read in English translation, though students with a reading knowledge of Italian are encouraged to read it in both languages. The translation is that found in the annotated bilingual edition by Robert and Jean Hollander (Doubleday). [This is a one-semester lecture course on the entire Comedy, distinct from ROIT40115-40116, Dante I and Dante II.] 

Monday, April 4, 2011 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
IVORY COAST 
Tension over presidency runs high in Abidjan 


Associated Press 
ABIDJAN — Residents barri­caded themselves inside their homes Sunday, blanketing windows and pushing furni­ture against doors as this country on Africa’s western coast tensely awaited the final battle between the two men who claim the presidency. 
Fighters backing the inter­nationally recognized presi­dent, Alassane Ouattara, amassed at a tollbooth on the city’s northern edge, prepar­ing for the final assault. Their leader was declared the win­ner of last November’s elec­tion, but Ouattara has not been able to assume office because outgoing president Laurent Gbagbo is refusing to yield power. 
Water has been cut off to much of Abidjan, and on the empty streets, a handful of women with basins could be seen hurriedly crossing the waterfront highway to reach the lagoon. Men ventured out with plastic bags to scoop up water, holding the bags high in the air to signal to soldiers in firing positions that they were not armed. 
Only about 20 miles sepa­rates the thousands of pro-Ouattara foot soldiers ready­ing for battle from the lagoon-side district where the presi­dential palace and mansion are located. 
A resident of the Cocody neighborhood where the man­sion is located said around 700 Gbagbo supporters had gathered at the gates of the compound Sunday, after state television, still controlled by the entrenched ruler, called on the population to form a human shield to protect the presidential palace. The resi­dent, who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal, said the supporters had been armed with AK-47 assault rifles. 
Toussaint Alain, Gbagbo’s representative in Europe, told reporters in Paris that Gbagbo is not giving up. 
“President Gbagbo, I have said, is at the residence of the head of state, his usual work­place, and he is managing the crisis with teams that have been put into place to deal with this aggression coming from the outside,” Alain said. “It’s not up to America or France to decide who must lead the Ivory Coast.” 
The international communi­ty has been nearly unanimous in backing Ouattara, whose win with over 54 percent of the vote was confirmed by Ivorian election officials and a 900-strong United Nations observation mission. 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Monday, April 4, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

To UConn, with love 
Dear UConn, 

Be ready. Tonight, you will have to do more than rely on Kemba Walker. Tonight you will have to play ball old school style. Remember the movie “Hoosiers?” Remember how Anna Boarini they were that little team 
News Production going up Editor against the big boys? Tonight, that is your life. So you think that Butler is just anoth­er little team that you can squash with your big school budget and conference. Think again boys — Pitt thought the same thing. And they’re going to watch this game from their couches at home. Get cocky. See if it will stop Matt Howard, Shelvin Mack or Sean Vanzant. You might get a lead. You might start to outscore the Dawgs. But don’t rest on your laurels. The minute you do, well, you can kiss that title goodbye. You might have a bigger and better team, UConn. You might have the more experienced coach. But the Bulldogs have something else. They have some unfinished business. Last year, they lost the title in their home city. Their home city. Think about that for a minute, UConn. How would that make you feel? Tonight the dawgs are out for blood. They want nothing more than this title. This title is more than just a national championship for them. It’s validation. It will stop the naysayers. It will finally make people see them as the threat they are. People always pay attention to you, UConn. It’s just a fact of life. Not many people actually watch Butler outside of tournament play. They aren’t in a big conference and they don’t always play big schools. But that doesn’t matter. The Dawgs have proven that they are more than just a “Cinderella” school. They are the real deal. So go ahead. Make your jokes. Don’t see them as a threat. Say that Brad Stevens is just too young to actually coach at this stage. Say that the Bulldogs are just too little. Just keep thinking all those things. What you don’t realize is that it doesn’t matter what you or the rest of the country thinks. The Dawgs are here, at the final game in the tournament for the second year in a row. They made it the same way they made it last year. They worked hard and more importantly, they want it. They don’t just want it for themselves, or their school or their fans. The Bulldogs want to win this title for the entire state of Indiana. It’s been a while since we’ve had a national title, and we want it too. And tonight, the Bulldogs are going to bring the national title back to it’s rightful home. So be ready UConn. It’s going to be a long night. Be ready for real, Indiana, corn-fed, junkyard basketball, not some of this Big East, big school crap you call the game. I don’t care that you have Kemba Walker. One guy doesn’t make a team. Just watch your back, UConn — Brad Stevens and the Bulldogs are ready. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 
Just live your life 
After the ever-so-disappointing Notre Dame-Florida State tournament game, I thanked Mike Brey and the Notre Dame Basketball Team for only one thing — giving me an easy topic to write about for this column. I knew I could easi­ly babble on about my thoughts con­cerning basketball at Notre Dame, Mike Brey’s future, how inex­cusable that per­formance was Kevin Kimberly and so on. But recently, I 

Bursting the 
received much 
Bubble 
more important, much more dis­appointing news that amplified the tough year the Notre Dame Community has endured — three heartbreaking stories to add to the ones of Declan Sullivan and Lizzy Seeberg. 
First, it was the headline that pro­fessor John Renaud of the College of Engineering died of cancer. Shortly after, news of the fateful car accident involving Leprechaun David Zimmer’s brother, Riley, and his friends sur­faced. In the latest story, the apparent suicide of Notre Dame sophomore Sean Valero last Friday added to the chaos. 
I was left speechless when I first woke up to the news about Sean. All day, I kept asking myself, “This is so unfair. When is this going to end?” Describing this year as a tragic one is certainly an understatement, but the last thing I want to do is harp on the stories themselves. We all know them and they will live on in our memory. How do we go forward now? What is there to gain? These are the ques­tions. 
Belief in God or not, life is certainly a gift that each one of us has been given, yet we often do not treat it as such. Particularly in the hustle and bustle of college, life can easily become what the daily planner and schedule dictates. We settle into our bubble and routine without much liv­ing itself. We often study something we do not enjoy, aiming for goals that may not be our own. We regularly do things because our résumé could use them instead of our desire to do them. We sometimes focus more on other people than ourselves. We frequently let little things get the best of us or cause drama. And we often miss the meaning of certain people’s role(s) in our lives. All because we have become too comfortable with the established norm. Heck, look at the bar schedule students follow — it has the same places every week on the same respec­tive days. Does it not just get old? 
Life is meant to be lived, not to be followed. We know not the day nor hour when the opportunity to live will be gone or even diminished. When that day comes, will we be able to look back with approval of how we took advantage of all this world and the people around us have to offer? Will we be happy with how we spent our time here? Will the people we love know that we loved them? Will we be able to say we touched another per­son’s life in some way or strived to make some change? Ultimately, will we be able to say that we treated life like a gift? 
These are the things that are brought to the forefront when I try to process these tragic incidents. These unfortunate reminders can often help us see the deeper meaning of some­thing greater than ourselves if we look for it. Often, the testimonies following death show us those who did take advantage of their lives. Those for Declan, Lizzy and Riley certainly spoke to the deep passion they held for life and love they had for those surrounding them. 
In 2008, T.I. released a major hit with Rihanna that took the radio by storm. Maybe we should take the sim­ple advice they offer: “Just live your life. Hey, ayy, ayy, ayy. No tellin’ where it’ll take ya. Just live your life.” 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The whole problem can be statedquite simply by asking,‘Is there a meaning to music?’My answer would be, ‘Yes.’And ‘Can you state in so manywords what the meaning is?’My answer to that would be, ‘No.’” 
Aaron CoplandAmerican composer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you haven't forgiven yourselfsomething, how can you forgiveothers?” 
Dolores Huerta 
U.S. labor leader 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Monday, April 4, 2011 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The issue with ‘The System’ 
It seems as though every time I am in the dining hall and around campus I hear yet another person talking about the event “The System: Opportunity, Crisis and Obligation in K-12 Education.” I consistently hear about how excited they are to hear that Michelle Rhee is coming to campus. I am really feel­ing the hype around campus for this event coming up soon. But, could some of the panelists’ ideas and policies be over-hyped? 
Sure, Michelle Rhee took a depleted Washington D.C. school district, made radical changes and saw high school graduation rates increase, but that was one unique experience. Now she has started an education advocacy group, Students First, which is trying to tackle the education issues in the entire country. She had a monumental task in trying to save Washington D.C. schools and now she is trying to take on the country. I really respect her for trying — it is a very noble cause. But I’m just not convinced that she can really reform an entire country’s failing education system. 
In this advocacy group, Students First, Rhee has three main policy goals. In short, they are trying to get teacher evalua­tions, give parents choices and make sure taxes are used effec­tively. Qualitative teacher evaluations have historically never worked, though Rhee is trying to evaluate based on student performance. But what if the students are just not strong learners? Also, what does she mean by giving parents “real choices”? Just because you give a parent data and choices doesn’t guarantee they will change the status quo or even make the right choice for their student. How does she know exactly where taxpayer money is most efficient for each and every school district? I feel as though every school district is different and there is not one fix-all solution. 
Overall, I feel like the task is monumental and I’m not sure that there is one solution to fix the failing educational system for each district across the country. The issue being discussed at “The System” is definitely one of great importance, for the sake of our generation and our children’s generation. I’m just not sold on the policies presented and how effective they will be. I am very eager to hear what Michelle Rhee and the panel have to say. 
Ladies, be decent 
Dear ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, 
Last week in South Dining Hall, I was shocked by the lack of class and common sense a young woman displayed through her choice of clothing. Like I’ve unfortunately noticed several others doing since, she was wearing tights as the only thing cov­ering skin from hips to ankles. The shirt this young woman was wearing stopped right at the top of her tights, and to keep this reader-friendly, I’ll just say her outfit left very little to the imagination. 
It’s completely inappropriate that I was present­ed with a detailed view of her private area simply because she stood in front of me while talking to a friend. This was in the dining hall as I tried to eat lunch, not a strip club. Some reading this will see nothing wrong with the situation I described and will wonder why I’d even think about complaining. My reasoning is that if a woman apparently doesn’t respect herself enough to present herself in a non-risqué manner in everyday life, I cannot trust her to respect me. I’d be wary about pursuing anyone like that. 
Over my time at Notre Dame, I’ve heard many people’s thoughts on the “hook-up culture” and how many don’t like that those involved are often objectified by their hook-up partner(s) and treated as unimportant, ignored or even avoided after­wards. When you give the impression that you don’t care what people think of you by dressing in overly-revealing clothes, you send the message that people are OK disrespecting you. I certainly know that not everyone does this, but I’ve noticed a dis­turbing rise in how often it happens. 
You were accepted to these schools because you are smart individuals. Please, think about how you present yourselves to everyone who sees you through the course of a day and how your choices every day affect your reputation. If you want to meet a true gentleman that will treat you as an upstanding young lady as opposed to just a suc­cessful end to a fun night, act like it. 
Kevin Brainard 
junior O’Neill Hall April 1 
UWIRE 
Rebecca Black: worst pop singer in history? 
By now, everyone and their mothers have heard of Rebecca Black. She exploded onto the internet two weeks ago with her song “Friday” and its accompanying video. 
Many have already dubbed it the worst pop song of all time and for good reason. Black’s voice sounds like a Jarrod Barry demon straight out of auto-tune hell. The 
er,” Black responded with a childish grin. “Well, I think that’s an accomplishment, you know?” she said. 
“Even if someone doesn’t like it, it’s still stuck in their head. That’s the point of it, a catchy song.” 
If anyone deserves criticism for this whole debacle, it’s Black’s mother and the produc­ers. Anyone who would pay $2,000 for her 
lyrics include such daughter to have a record deal should have 
poetic gems as, her head checked. 
Seamus Donegan 
freshman 
“Yesterday was And any songwriter who would write a song 
Keough Hall 
Thursday, Thursday. about whether to sit in the front or backseat 
April 3 
Today is Friday, Friday,” and the video seems should have his or her fingers chopped off to like a cheesy parody of itself. protect the world from anymore aural Black’s breakout success represents every-assaults. thing that is wrong with the modern recording Black has learned a few important lessons 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


industry. 
Oh, and don’t forget the awkwardly placed rap portion in the middle with a guy talking about swerving around school buses. Who is this guy, and isn’t he a bit old to be going to parties with 13-year-olds? He has a mous­tache. 
The song’s become a viral car crash – awful to listen to but impossible to turn away from. It’s garnered 61 million views (and counting) on YouTube, 37,000 downloads on iTunes and has already been covered by the Jonas Brothers. 
It’s also baffled the music media, leaving some to wonder if it was all actually some kind of Borat-esque joke criticizing the recording industry itself. Rolling Stone called it “an unintentional parody of modern pop,” while Time magazine deemed it “a whole new level of bad.” Other criticisms weren’t so polite – one YouTube comment urged Black to “go cut yourself and die.” 
Ouch, that’s painful to hear. Then again, though, so is the song. 
Black has taken a lot of criticism from, well, practically everybody over the song, and while some of it might be deserved, a lot of it seems misdirected. 
For instance, she didn’t write the song. In fact, she had very little to do with its final out­come at all. Most of that is the result of Ark Music Factory, a record label of sorts, which Black’s mother paid $2,000 in exchange for the recording and video of one of two songs. 
Black chose “Friday” because, as she told The Daily Beast, “The other song was about adult love – I haven’t experienced that yet.” 
She talked about the background of the song on “Good Morning America,” where, far from the anti-Christ of music some have pinned her as, she actually comes off as a sweet kid only in a little over her head. 
When one critic complained, “I hate her voice. It’s going to be stuck in my head forev­from her 15 minutes of fame – lessons all of us in our look-at-me culture would be wise to heed. 
For one, when out for the public to see, expect some amount of criticism in return. This is especially true in the world of music, in which people’s tastes and views are as person­al as religion. 
That’s part of the reason for the ferocious­ness of the backlash. Music is an intimate thing for many people. Right or wrong, they take music this bad as a personal insult. 
For them, “Friday” sums up everything wrong with today’s music industry in a single, four-minute sample. 
An even broader lesson, though, is this – when we seek out fame, sometimes we find it, but not for the reasons we want. It’s a lesson many reality TV stars have learned the hard way: It’s easier to become famous for some­thing bad than something good. In the quest for stardom, overnight popularity is more often found with infamy than dignity. 
Luckily for Black, the Internet has the atten­tion span of a hyperactive 12-year-old on a sugar high. Things are forgotten as quickly as they blow up, so Black will fade away pretty soon, which is probably best if she ever wants to be a serious singer. 
Maybe she can try again in a few years, this time with decent producers and a song that doesn’t involve singing the days of the week. 
Until then, she should probably just laugh along with the crowd. 
After all, there’s a certain amount of pride in having sung one of the worst pop songs ever. 
This article first appeared in the March 30 edition of The Daily Athenaeum, the daily publication serving West Virginia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Monday, April 4, 2011 
By COURTNEY COX 
Associate Scene Editor 
This year the Film, Television and Theatre Department’s spring production combines all the enthusiasm of student-run shows with the precision and training of professional theatre. The Department will join for the first time with the Notre Dame Shakes pea re Festival to pres­ent “The Two Gentlemen of Verona” this week. 
The play is among the lesser-known works of Shakespeare, which will give new audiences a chance to experience it without any pre­conceived notions about how the play should be performed. 
Though the play was written in 1590, its themes are ones audiences still struggle with today. The 

Because the themes are so relevant, the cast has found the experience of working on the show to be particularly enriching. 
“They [the actors] have been able to access the types of themes that are in this play. It’s about falling in instant love with somebody and that happens all the time, especially for young people,” said Carrier. “People are very passionate when they’re young. They’re passionate about their ideas, about falling in love, they’re pas­sionate about pursuing their goals and things like that, so I think it was very easy for the cast to access that.” 
In addition to the accessible themes, the production made the decision to set the show in the early 1950s. 
“I’m here to see actors improve and become more comfortable doing Shakespeare, and I find when Shakespeare’s put in its period … it dis­tances the actor from it a lot. It becomes very presentational, and I wanted to avoid that,” Carrier explained in regards to his decision to move away from the tradition­al Elizabethan setting of most Shakespeare plays. 
He also described why the 1950s would make a successful setting for the play. “I found an era 
main plotline fol-
which I thought 
lows two men, 
was fairly neutral, 
Valentine and 
but at the same 
Proteus, as they 
time it means 
travel to Milan 
something, even 
and find love in 
to young people. 
the same woman, 
Even if they’re 
Silvia. As one can 
thinking of 
imagine, no good 
“Grease” or “Mad 
follows when the 
Men”… it’s a time 
two friends begin 
they understand 
to compete for her 
and have a little 
affection. 
more familiarity 
The issues cov­
with.” 

ered in the play are especially relevant to a college-aged audience. 
“[Shakespeare] was a young person when he wrote it. He’s writing about young people so the issues in this play, the things we explore in the play, are really relevant to young people,” Donald Carrier, the show’s director, said. 

“It’s all about parental-child differences, falling in love instantly, falling out of love, breaking off with someone, pursuing their true love. All of those things…have always been relevant but it’s particularly relevant to a college audience.” 
Through the creative use of an appropriately chosen era, the cast and crew have transformed an age-old play into something audiences can more easily understand. The language holds new meaning when placed in a dif­ferent context and shows the depth of Shakespeare’s work. Shakespeare’s plays can be performed hundreds of years after being written and still hold meaning. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: The Two Gentlemen of Verona Where: Decio Mainstage Theater, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center When: April 5-10 How much: $10 for students, $12 for faculty, staff and seniors, $15 for the general public Learn more: performingarts.nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Monday, April 4, 2011 page 11 

obey the fit rules of the loafer: never more than a quarter of an inch space between the back of the shoe and your heel, your toes should lay flat and allow for luxurious wiggle room. The best part of driving shoes are the absolutely delec­table, decorative raised rubber cir­cles which align the 
backs, emphasizing 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Katie Firth Spotted: Ryan Hall 
Katie is ready for a night out with her friends 
in this trendy outfit. Her sequined metallic blouse is very much en vogue this season and looks great paired with her black skinny jeans. Her black leather boots also give an edgy and cool feel to her effortless ensemble. Katie looks simply sophisticated. 
Indeed, the day is your slim ankles
Italian moment 
defined by the and the attractive morning jaunt to curves of your legs the local bar for “cappuccino con as you promenade per la strada. un bombolone” (translation, cof-This decoration also has a prac­fee and a doughnut, but oh how tical purpose: when driving it pre­much more glamorous it sounds vents the heel of your shoe from in that Romance language!). Then sliding forward, and also prevents comes a mid-morn-the scuffing of that ing coffee break. 
fine Italian leather. Later there’s pranzo, 
While traditionally followed by a two 
Italians have flocked hour afternoon 
to Tod’s to purchase break where we all 
this fashion right of join our friends for 
passage, Zappos relaxed conversation 
currently offers a in the piazza. pair for $79.00. Afterward we head While this may seem
Driving Shoe, 
back to work for just steep, keep in mind 
zappos.com, $79.00 
a few hours before they last for years breaking once again and are a wonderful for a congenial aperitivo and investment. So, dear readers, if three-course dinner. the shoe fits, wear it ... Italian 
Ah, I can feel you sighing as the style. memories come flooding back. Remember those days of meeting your friends around the corner The views expressed in this after class to watch the water flow column are those of the author from the Trevi fountain? The and not necessarily those of The afternoons spent crossing the Observer. Ponte Vecchio in pursuit of that Contact Felicia Caponigri at perfectly scooped gelato? Before fcaponig@nd.edu 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 4, 2011 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary’s drops two contests to Alma 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
On a snow-flecked field in Michigan, the Belles dropped both games against conference juggernaut Alma Saturday, coming up short in consecutive hard-fought contests, 10-6 and 7-1. 
Alma (19-2, 2-0 MIAA) may have emerged victorious from the weekend matchup, but Saint Mary’s (10-5, 0-2 MIAA) gained confidence from its out­ings, as they went toe-to-toe with one of the conference’s top teams. 
“They have a very strong team, they have a very deep line up, so all their players are phenomenal,” junior outfielder Lauren Enayati said of Alma. “I great defense, through three scoreless innings. Alma notched three runs in both the fourth and fifth innings and tacked on another in the sev­enth, outmatching the one run plated by the Belles in the game. 
Freshman pitcher Callie Selnar incurred the game one loss, and Palicki took the loss in game two. Selnar also put forth one of the best offensive performances of the day, com­ing up just a triple short of the cycle in game one. She came around to score three times and drove in two runs, and went 2-3 in the second contest. Selnar summed up her offen­sive success quite simply, bely­ing how impressive of a per­
formance she put 
forth. 


definitely feel like “I just go up 
“We never gave 
they are a great there and hit the 
up and that is 
team, but I think ball, really,” that we are also what we need to Selnar said. a very good team Selnar added 
do for every 
as well and that she takes sol-
game.” 
unfortunately, ace in the fact that both games went her team put forth to them but we Callie Selnar strong showings in had a good fight both losses. 
freshman pitcher
and we definitely could have won.” 
The Belles put up an especially good fight in the first game, when freshman first baseman Chrissy Porter drove in Enayati for the game’s first run in the opening inning. The Belles added two more runs in the second inning on a number of Alma errors to bring their lead to 3-0. After Alma answered back with four runs in the third inning, the teams traded runs in the fourth before the home team plated four more in the fifth, effective­ly putting the game out of reach. 
Despite the disappointing loss in the first game, Enayati said she and her teammates were satisfied with their perform­ance in the day’s opener. 
“Our hitting was not lax at all … it was a really great battle so I thought that our mental toughness was really good the entire game,” she said. “Unfortunately, we did have a few innings where we strug­gled a bit defensively but we definitely did come back and prove that we are a really great team offensively. We kept hitting and we never gave up, and I thought that was a really great thing.” 
In game two, the Belles rode the pitching of junior Monica Palicki, combined with some “Even though 
we lost we played 
a good game and we never gave up and that is what we need to do for every game, learning to never give up,” she said. 
Enayati agreed that Saint Mary’s has done a good job thus far of giving what she deems “110 percent,” but said that the team must be sure to maintain a positive outlook. 
“I think that everyone just needs to stay up, stay positive and know that we can and will produce these runs and be really strong defensively as well,” Enayati said. “I think that just knowing we are a great team and believing it is something that everyone can improve on a little bit at least.” 
Enayati has certainly taken on a positive attitude herself, and looks for the Belles to put forth some strong showings as they try to move beyond their most recent losses. 
“I think that anybody can have a bad day,” she said. “I think we have a very strong team as a whole: pitching, hit­ting and defensively. I am defi­nitely not worried, I think we can come back and definitely prove that we are a great team overall. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
ND splits pair of games 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS also did a great job of fast-Sports Writer breaking off the face-off.” Senior defender Jackie 
The Irish got back to their Doherty led the Irish defen­winning ways in a victory sively, scooping five ground over Rutgers Friday night, balls and forcing six but lost to No. 4 Loyola Rutgers turnovers. Rutgers Sunday in a close match. attack Kristen Anderson 
Notre Dame (4-6, 1-1 Big scored three goals in a los-East), sparked by freshman ing effort. midfielder Kaitlyn Brosco, On Sunday, however, the opened its Big East sched-Irish caused just four ule with an 11-turnovers in 6 win over the a 13-10 loss Scarlet Knights t o t h e (6 -4, 1-2). Greyhounds 
“These are the 
Brosco contin-(10 -0, 2-0). 
weekends that 
ued her stellar The Irish had freshman year prepare you for a trouble con-with athree -taining
championship.” 
goal, four-reigning Big ground ball East Attack performance, Tracy Coyne Player of the helping the Irish head coach Year Grace 
Irish snap their brief two-game losing streak. 
Notre Dame outshot the visiting Scarlet Knights 37­17, marking the seventh time in nine games that the Irish have outshot their opponent. While the Irish never trailed, they only put away the game with a 4-0 scoring run that spanned 
3:48 in the second half. 
“I am very pleased with how we played,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “We had great execution and capital­ized on strong defense. We Gavin, who 
scored four 
goals and assisted on three others. The seven-point game for the senior was only one away from tying her career-high. 
“We knew that she was that kind of player,” Coyne said. “She is exceptional and that’s why they won the game.” 
Junior attack Maggie Tamasitis extended her point -streak to 28 games over the weekend, chipping in two goals and two assists against the Greyhounds. 
The Irish led early in the first half following unassist­ed goals from Tamasitis and senior midfielder Kailene Abt. The Greyhounds, how­ever, responded with three goals in 58 seconds, grab­bing a two-goal lead. 
Notre Dame fought back in the second half, tying the game at six with two goals in just over two minutes. Loyola answered with a 4-1 spurt keyed by three free-position shot goals. The Greyhounds converted on 4­of-8 free-position shots and capitalized on 34 Notre Dame fouls. 
“We played with a lot of heart today and we are all bitterly disappointed, ” Coyne said. “The team was really intense and focused and everybody really stepped up.” 
The defeat marks the third time the Irish have lost by three goals or less to a top-10 team this season. 
“All the girls are disap­pointed but they want to play them again in the Big East tournament, ” Coyne said. “These are the week­ends that prepare you for a championship.” 
The Irish return to action Friday in a Big East contest at Villanova. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about DREAM KITCHEN, 10' CEILINGS, 17702 Douglas Rd South Bend Home in Clay Twship-less than 3mi has been sexually assaulted, weWANTED HARDWOOD FLOORS Newly Renovated to ND. PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit 
Notre Dames website: ITALIANATE-STYLE NINETEENTH 3 BEDROOMS, 2-1/2 BATHS. 3 Bed/2 Full Bath $75K. 2BR 1BA. http://csap.nd.edu CENTURY ARCHITECTURE. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ——————————————— WIDE PROJECTING EAVES &; MASTER SUITE W/BALCONY. 2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek Lots of Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30 Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA ­ORNATE BRACKETING. Parking Walk to Campus 50+ pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, nice many resources in place to assist enchanting and unforgettable! Read 
LOWER LEVEL FAMILY ROOM Photos on web deck and firepit. Wood heat. New you. If you or someone you love this wonderful stage play on Kindle CONSTRUCTION NOT COM-W/2 EGRESS WINDOWS, FULL furnace and water heater. needs confidential support or assis-@ Amazon.com, under Books! PLETE OFFERING NEW OWNER BATH. 17702douglas.com tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— MANY CHOICES. Low taxes. 1-7819. For more information, visit A Haiku to Alumni: 
CALL Kim Kollar, Weichert, 574-876-8596 ND's website at: http://pregnancy-Rest up gentlemen. 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. Realtors, 574-274-7440 Call 574-261-2357 support@nd.edu The time to rise arrives soon. Wake it, shake it, comes. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Monday, April 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
ND SOFTBALL 

Coach earns 400th career win 
SMC GOLF 
Belles look to maintain momentum at Invitational 


By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf earned her 400th career win this weekend, as the Irish swept Big East conference opponent Providence in a three-game series at Melissa Cook Stadium, winning 12-4, 7-3 and 9-0. 
The outstanding performance, including two five-inning victo­ries, put Coach Gumpf’s record in 10 seasons with the Irish at 400­172-1, a .699 winning percent­age. The Irish as a team moved to 21-7 overall, 3-0 in the Big East. 
“Coach Gumpf works around the clock for our team every day,” junior infielder Alexa Maldonado said. “She really cares about the team and our success. It’s awe­some how much time she puts into her family and is still always there for us, her second family, every single day.” 
While the Irish dominated the Friars throughout the weekend in all aspects of the game, Maldonado referenced the out­standing offensive production as the most important factor deter­mining each victory. 
“Our outstanding areas were producing runs early in the games to get ahead and getting clutch hits to drive in runners when we needed to,” Maldonado said. 
One of the most notable feats of the weekend was that of senior captain Heather Johnson, who broke the career RBI record, 175, with a two-run walk-off double Saturday. This is Johnson’s sec­ond RBI record — she set the sin-gle-season record in 2010 with 68 runs batted in. 
“Heather is a great player for our team,” Maldonado said. “She always finds a way to produce runs.” 
Johnson’s hitting has greatly helped the Irish since the begin­ning of the home season. In the five home games played so far, she has gone 12-for-17 at the plate with 15 RBIs and three home runs. 
Maldonado herself was a key part of the Irish offense, with multiple hits in each game, runs scored and bases stolen. Senior catcher Lex Clay has also been an integral part of the offense, scor­ing multiple times, notching mul­tiple RBIs and hitting a home run. 
Impressive pitching by fresh­man Laura Winters and senior Jody Valdivia controlled Providence, allowing only seven runs over three games. 
Maldonado said the coaching staff has been key to the team’s recent success. 
“We really appreciate coach Gumpf as well as our two assis­tant coaches, Lizzy [Lemire] and Kris [Ganeff], and our volunteer coach, Dawn [Austin],” Maldonado said. “They work hard for us and we produce wins for them.” 
The Irish go on the road Monday to face Wisconsin. 
Contact Jack Yusko jyusko@nd.edu 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
After a record-breaking start to the spring season, No. 12 Saint Mary’s will try to keep the ball rolling in Texas this week at the Southwestern Invitational. 
The Belles got off to a hot start in the season-opening George Fox Invitational, held two weeks ago in Peoria, Ariz. After the first day, the team’s tally of 302 was good for first place and a six-shot lead. That effort was led by sen­ior captain Mary Kate Boyce, who shot a 66 in her very first round of the season. The score was the lowest in school history. While host George Fox University caught the Belles, their second-place finish was a solid early-sea­son showing. In addition to her record-breaking first day, Boyce’s two-day total of 142 shattered the Saint Mary’s record by six strokes, as well. 
“We just hope that we can stay on that same level we were at in Arizona,” Boyce said. “I don’t know if I can go quite that low again, but our goal is winning, and we’ll see if we can break that record in the process.” 
Since that first tournament, the Belles have had two weeks to practice and fine tune their game in practice. While they may not be the longest shots, Boyce and her teammates have put in the most time with their swings around the green. 
“We’ve been working on our short game a lot, because that’s where we believe we can save strokes and beat out other teams,” Boyce said. 
Now Saint Mary’s will descend on Teravista Golf Club in Georgetown, Texas for the Southwestern Invitational. This tournament annually has great competition, and this year’s edi­tion will be no exception. No. 14 Texas-Tyler and No. 23 Mary Hardin Baylor will both be in attendance, but Boyce believes that their toughest competitor may be the host team. 
“We’re playing against [No. 24] Southwestern, and they were a tournament team last year,” Boyce said. “We expect to be challenged, but at the same time, we feel like we have a good shot of winning.” 
And while the other teams will be fierce, the biggest challenge the Belles will face will probably come from the course. The 7,200-yard course will explore players’ ability to deal with another variable: wind. 
“We had our practice round on Sunday, so we’re pretty prepared for the course,” Boyce said. “It’s open to a lot of wind, so the con­ditions will be very demanding on every shot.” 
The Belles will begin their first day of play today at 8 a.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon wheffero@nd.edu 



By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
A trip to Baton Rouge for the LSU National Invitational proved frustratingly similar to many other tournaments for the Irish as they captured eighth place out of 12 teams with a three-day score of 53­over-par. 
Host LSU took home first place overall (+22), narrowly edging Chatanooga by just one stroke. Iowa, Michigan and Minnesota rounded out the top five. Chatanooga’s Stephan Jaeger finished a full seven strokes ahead of the competition (-7), running away with the individual title. 
The Irish have yet to place in the top five of a tourna­ment this spring and have not resumed the form they dis­played this fall on their way to four tournament victories and a preseason No. 24 national ranking. 
“We’re just having a hard time putting three good rounds together,” coach Jim Kubinski said. “We’re not the same team we were in the fall.” 
Though their final place may not have been as high as they had liked, the Irish recorded a number of strong individual efforts, led by sophomore Paul McNamara III, who posted a three-day score of 227 (+11), earning a share of 19th place overall. McNamara was particularly solid on the first two days, finishing +2 Friday and one-

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 4, 2011 
MEN’S GOLF 

Team struggles to place again 

under-par Saturday. 
The rest of the Irish effort came in right behind McNamara as junior Max Scodro carded a third-round 77 to finish a consistent plus­15 and in a tie for 31st place for the tournament. Junior Chris Walker and freshman Niall Platt both finished two strokes behind Scodro at 17­
over and in a tie for 35th place. Junior Tom Usher, coming off of a Big East Player of the Week award the week earlier finished a disap­pointing 33-over-par in 61st place. 
“We certainly had some good rounds, but that was the kind of course that can tear you apart if you don’t have your shots,” Kubinski said. 
The Irish were tied for sev­enth place heading into the third and final round but were unable to put up anoth­er quality score, keeping them out of the top five. 
One tune-up remains before the team heads to Florida for the Big East Championships. The Irish will host the Battle at the Warren Apr. 12 in their only home match of the year. Kubinski said he hopes the familiar course will help his team which is in need of a good showing before its most important match of the year. 
“We just need a good cou­ple weeks of practice before the Big East,” Kubinski said. “We know we have the tal­ent.” 
Contact Conor Kelly ckelly17@nd.edu 
hockey dads & 
soccer moms, come andget 
your freakyon! 
Michael R. - West Allis, WI 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish claim eighth after tough frst day 
By VICKY JACOBSEN mates compete and witness stronger than even an NCAA Sports Writer their determination during regional championship, and 
actual competition was awe-being able to come back like we 
some. We were able to feed off did to beat a number of highly 

After a disappointing opening of each other and ride waves of ranked teams proved that we round that left Notre Dame in momentum from a birdie putt can compete with the best,” 17th place in the field of 23 dropping or a clutch par save Conway said. teams, the Irish battled back to finding the hole. It was a lot of Notre Dame was led by fresh-claim eighth place in the Liz fun to fight for every shot man Nicole Zhang, who finished Murphy Collegiate Classic. together.” the weekend tied for 15th place Consistent improvement Waves of good momentum at eight-over-par. Conway was throughout the weekend pro-were integral to No. 26 Notre second for the Irish, finishing pelled the Irish Dame’s effort. The with a final total of 226 strokes, past the twin Irish followed up good for a tie for 32nd place. 
“This tournament 
challenges of a a first day tally of Senior So-Hyun Park tied for new scoring sys-wasn’t just about plus-14 with an 35th place after shooting 227 tem and a highly keeping ourselves impressive second and junior Becca Huffer tied for talented field. round of two-63rd place overall with a total 
going individually, 
In typical col-under-par in of 232. Freshman Kristina Nhim lege golf tourna-but rather keeping which every golfer rounded out the Notre Dame ments, three each other going as improved her finishers in 73rd place after co mpetitor s score from the shooting233. 
a team.” 
from three dif-day before. The Conway said she believes the ferent schools Irish played even unique experience will prove play together, Katie Conway better Saturday by beneficial as they prepare for but this weekend Irish senior captain shooting a collec-the championship season. all five members tive four-under-“This tournament wasn't just of the team com-par Sunday for a about keeping ourselves going peted together. The four best final tally of eight-over 872. individually, but rather keeping scores from each were counted The competitive field included each other going as a team,” towards the team total. five teams ranked in the top ten Conway said. “It was a really 
While the unique scoring for-and seven more ranked in the great team bonding experience, mat required some adjustments, top 25. No. 2 Alabama took first and will definitely help us as we it also proved to be an enjoyable place, while No. 4 Duke, No. 5 prepare for Big East.” experience for the team mem-Purdue, No. 12 Arkansas and The Irish will next hit the bers. No. 28 Florida rounded out the links April 17 to compete in the 
“This tournament was one of top five. Notre Dame out-dueled Big East championship in Palm the best experiences I've had in six higher-ranked teams, Harbor, Fla. college golf,” senior captain including No. 6 LSU and No. 7 Katie Conway said. “Having the Virginia. Contact Vicky Jacobsen at opportunity to watch my team-“The field strength was vjacobse@nd.edu 

SOUTH BEND ~ 54570 N. IRONWOOD ~ 574.277.8500 SOUTH BEND ~ 1290 E. IRELAND ~ 574.291.1900 SOUTH BEND ~ 138 S. MICHIGAN ~ 574.246.1020 SOUTH BEND ~ 3600 PORTAGE RD. ~ 574.273.8000 MISHAWAKA ~ 5343 N. MAIN ST. ~ 574.968.4600 
AMERICA’S FAVorite 
sandwich delivery guys!™ 
©2011 jimmy john’s franchise, llc  all rights reserved. 

Monday, April 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN’S TENNIS 

No.24NotreDamewinsthree 

By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 24 Irish dominated all three matches this weekend with wins over Ball State University, Southern Methodist University and IUPUI. 
“We had a great weekend,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Our guys played well on pretty fast courts at Ball State and turned it around today with a great effort in singles against an SMU team that will be heard from before this sea­son ends.” 
Senior Dan Stahl, ranked 89th in the country, won his sixth consec­utive match at No. 3 singles in the first match against Ball State, defeating junior Cliff Morrison 6-4, 6-4. 
The Irish doubles pairs also came out strong in the match, claiming the doubles point with victories by all three teams. 
Sophomore Spencer Talmadge and junior Niall Fitzgerald had the tightest match at No. 1, defeating juniors Zane Smith and Derek Carpenter 9-7. 
Junior Casey Watt and senior Stephen Havens defeated junior Andres Monroy and freshman Austin Smith 8-4 at No. 2 doubles. 
No. 125 Havens also defeated Smith in singles, dropping only three games. 
“Stephen Havens has really matured as a senior and played very well in besting a good base-liner in straight sets,” Bayliss said. 
Notre Dame defeated No. 64 Southern Methodist University 6-1 in its opening match on Sunday. 
The only dropped point for the Irish was the loss of the doubles point, but Notre Dame bounced back with strong singles perform­ances. 
Watt defeated No. 39 senior Artem Baradach 7-5, 7-6 (7-5). 
“Casey Watt played his best match of the year in avenging last year’s loss to Baradach 7-5,7-6,” Bayliss said. 
Havens followed suit defeating sophomore Gaston Cuadranti 6-3, 6-2 at No. 2. 
The Irish also beat IUPUI 7-0 on Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Notre Dame started off strong again claiming the doubles point with victories at all three positions. 
Talmadge and Ftizgerald teamed up for an 8-1 victory over freshman Joe Hammond and jun­ior Bren Vasalakis at No. 1, while freshman Ryan Bandy and senior Sean Tan defeated sophomore Armando Diaz and junior Ivan Mojsejev at No. 3 by the same score. 
The Irish will travel to Columbus, Ohio on April 13 to take on Ohio State, with first serve set for 3 p.m. 
“The rest of the season consists of two big matches on the road, each 10 days apart,” Bayliss said. “First are the Ohio State Buckeyes who are No. 3 in the country, fol­lowed by last year’s Big East and NCAA round of 16 Louisville Cardinals.” 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish doubles continue toimproveasteamwins 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 19 Irish took down two rivals in the Eck Tennis Center this weekend as they beat Long Beach State Friday 5-2 and followed with a 6-1 victory over Texas A&M Saturday. 
Against the 49ers, junior Kristy Frilling, junior Shannon Mathews, freshman Jennifer Kellner and senior Kristen Rafael won at the top four sin­gles spots and swept the doubles portion. The Irish (11-8) then won five of the six singles matchups and two of the three doubles matchups to beat the Aggies. 
Notre Dame is getting ready to head into its final stretch of the season before the postseason tournaments begin. The pair of wins at home was crucial to both momentum and positioning. 
“Both teams we played this weekend had some really strong players so we were really pleased to come away with two wins,” sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan said. 
McGaffigan dropped her match at No. 5 singles Friday, but followed up with a 6-2, 3-0 win Saturday. Both days, McGaffigan and senior Kristen Rafael won their doubles matchup. 
“I feel like our doubles contin­ue to improve with each match,” McGaffigan said. “Our hard work is paying off.” 
Mathews said the doubles point is crucial to consistently winning matches. 
“Winning the doubles point in both matches this weekend was very key,” Mathews said. “Our doubles teams are starting to click with each of the teams step­ping up and making major con­tributions in capturing the dou­bles point.” 
With only three matches remaining in the regular season against No. 18 Northwestern, Marquette and DePaul, the Big East tournament is rapidly approaching. The Irish, it appears, seem to be hitting their stride at the right time. 
“We have been training really hard and I feel like we are going to be at our best for the Big East tournament,” McGaffigan said. 
The Irish faced some tough teams earlier in the season and their record took a hit because of it. In March, Notre Dame dropped three straight to Baylor, USF and Duke. The Irish have since turned their season around and look to keep the winning streak alive heading into the postseason. 
The Irish face Northwestern Thursday in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Matthew Robison mrobison@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 4, 2011 
Kelly 
continued from page 20 
high level. Right now, I think both of those guys have made us very comfortable with the drop posi­tion, and now we can look towards the Cat and the Will and the depth at the Mike [linebacker positions].” 
Sophomore linebacker Dan Fox has been excellent during spring practices and should also factor into the outside linebacker rota­tion, but that Spond has opened the most eyes on the defensive side of the ball, Kelly said. 
“Fox didn’t play a lot as a posi­tional player [last season]. He was obviously on all special teams. He’s impressed me. Danny Spond probably would be singularly the one guy that has been very impressive at the drop position. He plays with heavy hands. He’s very good in the pass game.” 
Barring injury, sophomore inside linebackers Carlo Calabrese and Manti Te’o will resume their roles as starters in 2011. However, Kelly said that Calabrese has been moving between the weakside and strongside linebacker positions and could see time at both posi­tions. Freshmen Kendall Moore and Justin Utupo have also been earning repetitions at the inside linebacker spots. 
At cornerback, junior Robert Blanton and senior Gary Gray, who will be a graduate student next fall, are also expected to hold roles as starters. Freshmen Lo Wood and Bennett Jackson have battled for the backup posi­tions, and Kelly said cornerbacks coach Kerry Cooks and safeties coach Chuck Martin were impressed. 
“We’re happy with their progress,” Kelly said. “Bennett probably has surprised us a little bit. He’s got a natural fit for his backpedal. He stays in. He seems to have a sense for it [and] plays the ball very well. Lo has made really good progress for us. Diaco and Kerry and Chuck feel really good about the progress those two have made.” 
Kelly added that early enrollee Ishaq Williams should see the field as early as next season, albeit in a simplified role. 
“When you have somebody that is gifted physically like that, I think it’s on the coaches to not make it so difficult,” Kelly said. “If we ask him to do all those things, it’s going to be paralysis by analy­sis. We’re going to let that kid line up and play.” 
Kelly had nothing but positives to describe the performance of junior Darius Fleming. Fleming, who has emerged as a mentor to Williams, spent time in and out of the outside linebacker rotation last season, but looks to be a mainstay at that position in 2011. 
“I’ve looked at film from last year and I know what I need to fix,” Fleming said. “I’ve been working on that every day. I’m getting better every day, and I feel like I’m helping the guys around me as well, just being that type of leader.” 
Notes 
. Junior Michael Floyd possibly will meet with the Office of Residential Life this week, Kelly said. There are open lines of com­munication between the Irish coach and the office, and he described the relationship as “healthy.” He added that any decision will be made by the University. 
“What I heard was that he would be meeting with residential life this week and that some kind of decision relative to that meet­ing would be very soon after,” Kelly said. “They have informed [Floyd] that a decision would be made quickly. My first reaction is always about, ‘How can we learn?’ But that’s me. I’m not in that other office.” 
Kelly also mentioned that Floyd has taken steps to educate him­self following his arrest on the morning of March 20 for operat­ing a vehicle while intoxicated. 
“He’s already taken definitive action,” Kelly said. “He’s already reached out to make that happen in a very positive way.” 
. 
Freshman wide receiver Daniel Smith remained inactive after suffering a grade one hamstring injury during practice last week. Kelly said Smith will complete a medication cycle before returning to practice, but did engage in a platelet-rich plasma procedure to accelerate the healing process. 

“The MRI looked good — superficial tearing,” Kelly said. “This is nothing deep into the belly of the muscle. We just want to make sure we get him 100 per­cent. Our goal is to have him playing in the spring game.” 

. 
Notre Dame has been using Adidas tech-fit pants during spring practices. Worn by the New York Giants last season, the lighter pants feature no stitching, panels or belts. 

“They look hideous, but our kids seem to like them,” Kelly said. “They’re very comfortable. Obviously we are trying them out to see if it’s something we want to pursue. The entire line of clothing and apparel and shoes is faster. If they like them and as long as they’re gold, I’m good with that.” 

. 
Notre Dame and Michigan will be wearing throwback jerseys for their matchup on Sept. 9, the first night game at the Michigan Stadium. Kelly said the Irish jer­seys should resemble those worn during the Joe Kuharich era (1959-1962). 


Contact Chris Masoud cmasoud@nd.edu 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish record ten top fnishes 
Freshman Brown takes two firsts at Mike Poehlein Invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
After a lone first-place fin­ish Friday in the field events, the Irish captured the top spot nine more times Saturday in the Mike Poehlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Junior Doug Onuscheck took first place in the pole vault, giving the Irish their lone top finish on the first day. Freshman Peter Kristiansen also placed third in the javelin throw. 
On the women’s side, sen­ior Theresa Cattuna crossed the finish line first in the 5,000-meter run and sopho­more Nevada Sorenson won the 100 -meter hurdles. Freshman Michelle Brown came out on top of two events, the 400-meter dash and the 200-meter dash. 
“I gained some much need­ed confidence after I won both the 400 and the 200 at Purdue and that is going to carry onto my upcoming races,” Brown said. “[Irish sprits and hurdles coach Alan] Turner has been mak­ing us work extremely hard both on the track and in the weight room and the results are just starting to show in our races. We all are very excited for how fast we can run this outdoor season.” 
For the men on the second day of the invitational host­ed by Purdue, senior Edward Hitchler and sophomore Brendan Dougherty finished one-two in the 400-meter still ran exceptionally well dash, and senior Ryan which is exciting because we Gamboa took first -place know we can run much honors in the 3,000-meter faster,” Brown said. steeplechase. Notre Dame will be in 
“With having to deal with action again when it travels the elements at Purdue, our to Louisville, Ky. to take on team was very strong and the Cardinals April 9. 



Monday, April 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior midfelder Jake Marmul, left, and junior midfelder Devon Dobson struggle for possession during Notre Dame’s win over Villanova Saturday. 
Villanova 
continued from page 20 
24 seconds remaining in the first quarter, but fell behind 5-2 after they allowed a Villanova goal three minutes into the second quarter. 
Cue the comeback. 
In the final 12 minutes of the half, Notre Dame embarked on a run that showcased the prowess responsible for its undefeated record. The team rattled off five straight goals to capture a 7-5 lead before the break. Notre Dame’s ability to mount such a comeback is a credit to the Irish players’ ability to react to the opposing team’s style of play, Corrigan said. 
“Our guys recognized what they were doing and really moved the ball well today,” he said. “Our guys did a great job of not holding the ball … and letting the ball do the work. You are tough to defend when you do that.” 
Villanova continued to chal­lenge the Irish for the remainder of the game, tying the score in the third quarter. After two goals in 12 seconds’ time by freshman attack Westy Hopkins, though, Notre Dame regained the lead, this time for good. 
Hopkins and senior attack Colin Igoe both recorded hat tricks on the day, and senior captain and midfielder Zach Brenneman added one assist and two goals. Brenneman displayed his All-American, but did much more than just fill up the stats column as he played persistent defense and dove in pursuit of a player on multiple occasions. 
With a leader of Brenneman’s caliber and the talented roster they have, the Irish figure to be in the mix for the national champi­onship for the second straight year, Igoe said. 
“We really have something spe­cial this year and we are keeping it going. We don’t have any selfish guys on the field,” Igoe said. 
The Irish are careful not to get ahead of themselves, though, realizing they still have five more regular season games, including a showdown with No. 1 Syracuse scheduled for April 30. Downplaying the importance of his team’s most recent win, Corrigan emphasized that the Irish will have to keep working hard and improving to get where they want to go this year. 
“We are so excited about it that we are coming back to practice tomorrow at 2:30 p.m., because we have got to get back to work,” he said. “We are playing some of our best lacrosse the last two games, and we want to keep get­ting better. This is a great win, but in the middle of the season, you don’t sit back and chalk up which ones are big wins and which ones are not.” 
Still, Igoe could not refrain from reveling in the moment as he praised his defensive counter­parts for yet another successful performance in front of sopho­more goalie John Kemp, who notched 11 saves in the game. 
“Our defense has been our anchor since I have been here for four years, and we are going to rely on them for every game,” he said. “Best defense in the coun­try.” 
Corrigan appreciated Igoe’s enthusiasm, but aimed to avoid such sweeping statements. 
“I think we can be,” he said. “That will prove itself out, those are things you talk about at the end. Right now, we are playing our tail off.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo jmonardo@nd.edu 
Panthers 
continued from page 20 
team showed heart in the late comeback. 
“I thought the guys did a great job of battling,” he said. “[Senior right-hander Todd Miller] wasn’t as sharp as he usually is, obviously. The way our offense has been, when we find ourselves down four runs it’s been tough, but they did a great job.” 
Aoki said the key to the late comeback was an improvement in the team’s at-bats at crunch time. 
“I think the thing that makes me happy is the quality of at-bats late in the game,” he said. 
“For the most part, it was bet­ter. We did a good job of swing­ing at good pitches, even if the results weren’t what we want­ed.” 
Despite Notre Dame’s sub­.500 record, the coach said that he is seeing on-field improve­ment as he attempts to turn around a program that has struggled in recent years. 
“Maybe the results aren’t coming around as quickly as we would all like, but the play­ers are doing the things that I value on the field.” 
Notre Dame resumes play with Western Michigan at Frank Eck Stadium Tuesday night. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 4, 2011 


Notre Dame won in the paint. Senior forwards 
UConn 
Becca Bruszewski and continued from page 20 Devereax Peters took advantage of Dolson's ter won. absence to grab eight and The team that no one seven rebounds, respective-expected to get this far, that ly. Notre Dame ended up exited too early in the last with a 40-24 scoring advan­two NCAA tournaments, tage in the paint, and a 39­that started the year 2-2 27 rebounding lead. and lost to Connecticut Most important of all, three times, is playing for a Notre Dame's star out-national championship. played Connecticut's. Maya Just like it did 10 years Moore is without a doubt ago. In the national semifi-the best player in college nals in 2001, Notre Dame basketball. The worst part won on the strength of a of this loss for the sport, dominant point guard and a and the best part for Notre suffocating defense. Dame, is that it ended her Connecticut lost, 90-75. career. In that game, point guard Tonight, though, Skylar Niele Ivey scored 24 points. Diggins beat Maya Moore. In this game, point guard Before the game, Moore Skylar Diggins scored 28. said the win would go to The parallels continue. whoever wanted it more. And they matter. The 2001 That's not what happened. team is an important part of It was impossible for either this one, through Ivey's to want it more than they presence on the bench, did. through the conversations But Diggins played better, ment. of Notre Dame’s 26. For most of 
the former and present and Notre Dame won. “I think this is my week for the game, the matchup between 
players have had, and the Both played with intensity exorcising demons and getting the two resembled a heavy-
Diggins 

inspiration they've provid-and at times both carried continued from page 20 over the hump of some of the weight bout, with each player 
ed. their teams. Moore finished best programs in the game,” consistently one-upping the 

But it's time to look at this with 36 points to Diggins' eight-point deficit with under McGraw said. “This is an other. 
team in its own light. 28. But Moore also shot 14­18 minutes to go. The Irish incredible victory for our team The Irish took advantage of 
It's time to believe. But of-30, 5-of-13 from 3 and a were the first team since 2004 and our program to beat a Huskies center Stefanie 
not in fate, or destiny. surprising 3-of-7 from the to shoot over 50 percent from quality team with a great player Dolson’s foul trouble. The fresh-
It's time to believe in the free throw line. She missed the field against the Huskies like [senior forward] Maya man picked up her fourth per­
2011 Notre Dame women's two straight free throws (36-2). Moore.” sonal foul with 14 minutes 
basketball team. when the Huskies were Several times Connecticut Moore scored 36 points, but remaining and did not reenter 
"It's not as much fate as down 40-47 with 9:31 to made one of its typical runs went 14-of-30 from the field. At the game until the 8:37 mark. 
hard work," Irish coach play, and missed two of but, unlike most opponents over one point in the second half the Without a low post presence, 
Muffet McGraw admitted three when down 67-61 the past three seasons, the Irish Connecticut leader scored 13 the Huskies were vulnerable 
after the win. with 1:18 left. Who knows answered with a counterpunch consecutive points, a stretch and Notre Dame imposed its 
Notre Dame went into how the game would have and hung with the two-time that narrowed the Irish lead will offensively. 
halftime trailing 34-26. At ended if she'd made those. defending champions. from 12 to three. But in the “Once we took [Dolson] out 
5:54, they were up 59-47. Diggins was the only rea­“We certainly didn’t have any-end, Moore, who was playing in we just didn’t have much of a 
Everything seemed to be son Notre Dame stayed in it thing handed to us,” McGraw her final collegiate game, presence physically inside, and 
breaking Notre Dame's way in the first half. At the said. “And it was an amazing missed shots and critical free they took advantage of that,” 
in those 14 minutes. At one break, she had scored 14, accomplishment, I think, for throws down the stretch and Auriemma said. “They drove 
point, a referee called an and three other players had this team. So I would say not as watched as her team’s hopes the ball into the lane and they 
out-of-bounds ball for scored four. Then she much fate as hard work.” for a third consecutive champi-forced us to make — as [sopho-
Connecticut, then changed played even better in the With the win, McGraw has onship faded away. more guard Kelly Faris] and 
the call and gave the ball to second half, making the key beaten legendary coaches Pat “Notre Dame came to win,” [Moore] said, we made some 
the Irish. The momentum, shots she needed to make as Summitt and Geno Auriemma she said. “They came to play. mistakes defensively, and some-
and the Indiana crowd, well as all of her six free in consecutive games. Prior to Every single person that they times teams can’t capitalize on 
belonged to Notre Dame. throws. She ran the team. this year, one in which McGraw brought in I think came in and your mistakes. But Notre Dame 
Not because of luck, or She led them to victory. will be inducted into the Hall of did exactly what they could do.” did tonight.” 
fate, or anything else. "I like to be the voice of Fame, no team had ever beaten Moore scored 15 of Aside of Diggins, the Irish 
Because of hard work. calm, even though some-both Tennessee and Connecticut’s 32 first half struggled to find offensive pro-
Notre Dame made their times I was pretending. I Connecticut in the same tourna-points, while Diggins scored 14 duction in the first half. The 
shots. In its past three was really nervous but they sophomore shot 6-of-10 from 
meetings with Connecticut, thought I was calm," the field in the period, while the 
Notre Dame shot a com-Diggins said after the game. rest of the team combined for 
bined 35.3 percent. Tonight, That's how a leader acts only 12 points. 
the Irish shot 51.9 percent, in the biggest game of her “In the second half we 
and 55.6 percent in the sec-career. allowed [Diggins] to get every­
ond half. And that's why Notre one else involved,” Auriemma 
Notre Dame got inside and Dame won, and Connecticut said. “It was the plays she made 
drew fouls. Connecticut lost. for other people, and that’s 
rarely fouls, which is why what great players do.” 
it's successful running a The views expressed in Junior guard Natalie Novosel 
six-man rotation. When this column are those of the scored 18 points in the second 
center Stefanie Dolson com-author and not necessarily half in an Irish surge over the 
mitted her fourth personal, those of The Observer. last 20 minutes. She finished 
it was a problem for the Contact Laura Myers at with 22 on 8-of-13 shooting. 
Huskies. lmyers2@nd.edu 
“I think Skylar in the begin­ning kept us in the game,” Novosel said. “We weren’t real­ly playing our game. We were letting [Connecticut] dictate the game for us. And I think in the second half I was frustrated that I didn’t contribute in the first half.” 
Diggins, a South Bend native, grew up rooting for the Irish and was a fan when Notre Dame, led by current assistant coach and former player Niele Ivey, knocked off Connecticut in the 2001 national semifinals. Tonight, it was Diggins’ turn to lead the Irish to the champi­onship game. 
“[Reaching the championship game] is pretty high on my list, if not the top,” Diggins said. 
Notre Dame, looking for its second national championship in program history, will face Texas A&M Tuesday at 8:30 
p.m. at Conseco Fieldhouse on ESPN. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Monday, April 4, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


HENRI ARNOLD
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
JUMBLE
PLEASANDVILLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Monday, April 4, 2011 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Sky high 


The better team comes over UConn to fnals Diggins leads Irish out on top in Final Four 
INDIANAPOLIS — It's pret-
By ANDREW OWENS 
ty simple, really.
Associate Sports Editor 
The team that played bet­ter won. The team that madeINDIANAPOLIS — When more shots, committed less sophomore point guard Skylar fouls andDiggins sank consecutive free grabbed throws with 28 seconds left to more give the Irish a nine-point lead, reboundsfantasy became reality and won. Thehope became result in a 72-63 team withNotre Dame victory over more con-Connecticut in the national tributingsemifinals. 
playersThe team’s emotional leader 
won. Laura Myers 
scored a career-high 28 points But it's 
Senior
on 10-of-14 shooting and not that 
Sports Writer
turned the second half into a simple. 
complete team comeback in one Because of the greatest victories in pro-Notre Dame won. 
gram history. 
And Connecticut lost.
“I thought Skylar was just Notre Dame won on the amazing, simply amazing strength of a dominant point today,” Irish coach Muffet guard and a suffocatingMcGraw said. 
defense. Connecticut lostNotre Dame (31-7) used a because it lost its composure.
55.6 percent shooting effort in The team that played bet-the second half to overcome an SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Irish sophomore guard Skylar Diggins, 4, and senior guard Brittany Mallory celebrate see DIGGINS/page 18 after Notre Dame’s 72-63 Final Four victory over Connecticut Sunday in Indianapolis. see UCONN/page 18 



BASEBALL 

Irish finish series with Pittsburgh in winning fashion 
By CHRIS ALLEN Sports Writer  thing of a trend for Irish coach Mik Aoki’s squad, as Notre Dame (10-14-1) has had 18 of  Panthers to steal a 6-5 win. The rally came off of Notre Dame sophomore reliever Adam  off him were hit on the screws, it wasn’t exactly a laser light show out there or anything.”  single off freshman left-hander Anthony McIver to give Pittsburgh its second win of the  
its 25 games decided by one or  Norton and freshman reliever  Senior  right-hander  Cole  series.  
Just as they have all season,  two runs.  Dan Slania, who were not able  Johnson  picked  up  where  The Panthers seemed poised  
the Irish found themselves in  “I think the way we’re hitting,  to preserve the strong start of  Dupra left off Saturday, tossing  to take a series sweep Sunday,  
close games in their three-pitching and most of all playing  senior starting pitcher Brian  6.2 innings of two-run ball and  holding a 6-2 lead in the sev­ 
game series at Pittsburgh this  defensively, we’re going to con- Dupra. Dupra did not allow an  keeping the Irish offense in the  enth  inning,  but  a  six-run  
weekend, dropping the first two  tinue to play close games,” Aoki  earned run in his 6.1 innings of  game. Notre Dame was unable  frame highlighted by a three- 
games in one-run fashion, 6-5  said.  work.  to muster enough offense to  run home run by freshman first  
and 3-2, and rallying late to  The Irish held a big lead late  “I thought [Dupra] did a great  give Johnson the win, and the  baseman Trey Mancini gave the  
take Sunday’s series finale by  in Friday’s opener, but five runs  job,” Aoki said. “Obviously  game moved into extra innings  Irish an 8-6 win. Aoki said his  
the score of 8-6.  from Pittsburgh (15-10) in the  [Norton] had  a  tough outing,  where Pittsburgh left fielder  
Close games have been some- eighth  inning  allowed  the  but I can’t say that the balls hit  Casey Roche laced a walk-off  see PANTHERS/page 17  

FOOTBALL 

Diaco’s defense takes shape 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Highlighted by a stretch of 13 consecutive quarters without allowing a touchdown, Notre Dame’s defense responded well to incoming coordinator Bob Diaco’s system in 2010. As the coaching staff evaluates talent for the 11 positions this spring, a number of battles have emerged for coveted playing time. 
At the outside linebacker posi­tion, freshmen Danny Spond and Prince Shembo have emerged as the two frontrunners. 
“It is a great battle between Shembo and Spond right now,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “Either one of those guys can play winning football for us at a 
see KELLY/page 16 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish mount comeback win against Wildcats 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
As Irish players, coaches and fans milled about the turf of Arlotta Stadium after Saturday’s game, Kool and the Gang’s 1980s song “Celebration” blared from the loudspeakers, encapsulating the general senti­ment after the Notre Dame’s 12-8 win over Villanova. 
The No. 2 Irish (7-0, 2-0) outscored No. 8 Villanova (7-3, 0-2) three goals to none in the final quarter to secure a come­back win in a physical match. 
Notre Dame fell behind early following a Wildcat goal less than three minutes into the game, but Irish junior attack Nicholas Beattie quickly responded with his own min­utes later to even the score. 
Villanova regained control of the game shortly thereafter, scoring three consecutive goals as the Irish gave away a num­ber of turnovers and struggled for most of the opening quarter. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said his team’s early struggles were largely a product of the opposi­tion’s play. 
“Villanova is very good, and they are hard to play against,” he said. “I thought our guys did a great job this week preparing us for it, but it is still different when you get in the game and it is their guys, and they are tough to defend.” 
The Irish netted a goal with 
see VILLANOVA/page 17 





