
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Lecture suggests ways to be LGBT allies 
University staff and faculty emphasize understanding and improving self-esteem at ‘Queer Queries’ 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
University staff and faculty spoke about being allies for peo­ple who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT) in a Thursday panel discussion pre­sented by the Progressive Student Alliance. 
To oppose hatred against those who identify as LGBT, people must prepare to face indignity, Miguel Franco, staff psychologist at the University Counseling Cen­ter, said. 
“In quest of anything noble, in­dignity is going to come your way and the indignity is going to be commensurate to the size of the nobility,” Franco said. “You’re go­ing to get tired.” 
Franco warned attendees that as allies to the LGBT community, they must not become self-righ­teous. They will still make mis­takes of judgment in words and actions. 
Allies should also not be defen­sive, Franco said. 
“You want to be approachable to people, and you cannot be ap­proachable if you have defense mechanisms going off left and right telling people ‘I’m hurting’ [when you encounter opposition].” 
The solution to improving oth­ers’ self-esteem is growing one’s own, Franco said. 
“I’ll argue that if you want to cultivate self-esteem in yourself and other people, the answer is altruism,” he said. “Give of your­self to other people.” 
Professor of sociology Dan My­ers said allies must understand their context. 
“Here at Notre Dame, we have a certain idea about what we think this context is, and I don’t think it’s entirely accurate,” Myers said. “We think that the people around us think about [LGBT issues] a certain way … that’s relatively unfriendly. There’s a very differ­ent reality than what people ex­pect.” 
Myers emphasized the impor­tance of understanding what is­sues are important to the LGBT community and educating your­self about them. 
“When you’re new to an issue or an environment, take it easy as you figure out what’s up and what you can best contribute instead 


PAT COVENEY / The Observer 

Psychology intern Allison Kozonis (left), Director of Undergraduate Studies for Gender Relations Abby Palko (middle) and staff psychologist Miguel A. Franco (right) speak at Queer Queries on Thursday. 
of rushing in full blast with your righteous indignation,” he said. 
Try not to get frustrated, Myers said. Some people will not agree with you, even though you think they should. 



Vermin welcome Christmas 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Students clad in ugly sweat­ers and Santa hats will flock to Carroll Hall tonight from 6 to 10 p.m. for the annual Carroll Christmas.  
“It’s a great, festive time to get in the Christmas spirit,” Carroll Christmas commis­sioner junior Mike Weiss said. 
Weiss said the event includes a performance from the Glee Club, a tree lighting ceremony with a 17-foot tree, pictures with Santa, free food and much more. 

Weiss said he is most looking forward to the annual cookie contest, which will take place at 8 p.m. 
“For the past two years I’ve been in the picture … and I missed the cookie contest both years,” Weiss said. “One of the R.A.’s moms has won it for three years in a row, and I’m dying to eat these award-win­ning cookies.” 
The trek to Carroll will be easier this year, thanks to funding from the Student Union Board (SUB) for a horse and carriage to take students from the LaFortune Student Center to Carroll Hall between 


see CARROLL/page 3 
“There are people in the LGBT community itself that aren’t go­ing to appreciate you and your intervention and your presence in their community,” Myers said. “Remember that you’re not actu­ally a member of the community ... You don’t have to pay the same cost for talking about and acting on these issues.” 


see LGBT/page 5 

Voices of Faith choir sings a song of community 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Music, community, fellowship and faith are four words that immediately come to the minds of Voices of Faith gospel choir members when asked why they enjoy spending time together. 
“We’re more than just a choir. It really is a community,” junior Nicole Campion said. “Yes, we practice singing, but it is also a time of faith and fellowship.” 
Director Eugene Staples, a senior and four-year member of Voices of Faith, invoked the group’s motto when discussing its communal and spiritual at­mosphere, his favorite aspect of the choir. 
“We are a student-run, faith-based choir,” Staples said. “Singing is my favorite part, but it’s definitely not more im­portant than the fellowship and community. I really enjoy the group’s union of singing with doing something good for our Christian faith.” 
Senior Amanda Meza echoed Staples’ remarks when asked about her favorite part of par­ticipating in the choir. 
“The fellowship you develop would have to be my favorite part. It’s more than just sing­ing,” Meza said. “We grow to­gether in our faith, and this is something I really cherish and wouldn’t change.” 
Voices of Faith, a choir marked by cultural, religious and ethnic diversity, provides a home for those searching for al­ternative ways to grow in their spirituality outside of an exclu­sively Catholic context. 
“We provide a home for those who feel alienated,” Staples said. “I come from a Baptist church, and I still feel alienated by some of the Catholic struc­tures. Voices of Faith really is a home away from home for those who don’t understand the Cath­olic traditions.” 
Meza, also a member of the Baptist Church, wanted to con­tinue singing and focusing on her spirituality as she had at home. She said she quickly dis­covered Voices of Faith during her freshman year. 
“I’m not Catholic, but I want­ed to sing Christian music,” she said. “I went to the concerts my freshman year, and they were 
see VOICES/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Undergraduate biochemistry research page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Christmas ‘bests’ page 8 u Hockey plays Northeastern page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, December 2, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH HOLIDAY CHARACTER DO YOU IDENTIFY WITH MOST? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Mario Zeron  Ishmael  Connor Reider  Chris Sausen  Rob Luceri  Kristen Tripicchio  
Amergashie  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  freshman  
Keough  Keough  Dillon  Siegfried  Duncan  Lyons  
“Elf.”  “Santa Clause.”  “Herbie the Elf.”  “Charlie Brown.”  “Rudolph.”  “Frosty.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Amanda Gray Adam Llorens Bridget Feeney 

Graphics 
Marina Kozak 

Photo 
Sarah O’Connor 


Sports 

Katie Heit Brian Hartnett Matthew DeFranks 

Scene 

Kevin Noonan 

Viewpoint 
Caroline Lang 


LOCAL WEATHER 
OFFBEAT 
“Occupy L.A.” protestors leave behind 30 tons of trash 
LOS ANGELES — The po­litical world will continue to debate the merits of the Oc­cupy Wall Street movement, and its partner movements. But there is one undeniable 
— if temporary — legacy that the recently evacuated parti­sans of Occupy L.A. have be­queathed: 30 tons of trash. 
Andrea Alacron, president of the city’s Public Works board, told the Los Angeles Times that cleanup crews have already removed 25 tons of debris that the protes­tors who spent the past two months occupying the site have left behind. 
In addition, sanitation crews have vacuumed up 3,000 gallons of water. Offi­cials are testing the water for hazardous waste. 

The volume of personal belongings left behind after the early morning Los Ange­les Police Department raid has astonished city workers: books and CDs, luggage and boom boxes, mattresses and dining chairs, cellphones, electric razors, a small red guitar with its neck snapped 
— all surrounded by dozens of collapsed and empty tents. 
Flying squirrels invade hospi­tal emergency room — again 
NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ., — Most people spend their time in the hospital plotting their escape. It turns out that squirrels aren’t all that dif­ferent. 
Tuesday night, a flying squirrel managed to trap itself inside the emergency room at a New Jersey Hos­pital. 
“It would climb up on a light and would jump off and glide,” said fire department spokesman Capt. Ted Pa­davano. “It looked just like a little squirrel, but once it jumped into the air, it had like a glider, or like a bat, skin under its arms, like a little square glider,” 
Even stranger, this was the second time in two weeks that a flying squirrel had taken over the hospital’s 15-by-15-foot trauma room. Eventually, a pair of fire­fighters managed to throw a blanket over the squir­rel and safely release it un­harmed outside the hospital. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled “The Inco­herence of Federal Educa­tion Policy” will be held today from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Room 210 of Sandner  Hall. The speaker will be Richard Rothstein, research associate at the Economic Policy Insti­tute. 
The Notre Dame Commit­tee for Women invites the women of Notre Dame to at­tend its Christmas program today from 12 to 1 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform Christmas mu­sic, and cookies and punch will be served. Register for the event at the ND Commit­tee for Women website at www.nd.edu/~cwi 
“Puppy Days” will be held today from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Knights of Columbus Build­ing. The event is a destresser where students can come re­lax and play with puppies pro­vided by the Saint Joseph’s County Humane Society. 
The Quinn Lecture titled “Love and the Cry of Derelic­tion” will be held today from 3 to 5 p.m. in Malloy Hall. The speaker will be Eleonore Stump, the Robert J. Henle Professor of Philosophy at St. Louis University. 
Sunday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Advent Lessons and Carols Service will be held. The pro­gram will feature all Basilica choirs, including the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, Wom­en’s Liturgical Choir, Folk Choir, Handbell Choir and Ba­silica Schola. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH 34 LOW 26 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 














CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Friday, December 2, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Research cuts experiment time 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Senior Ethan Ferguson, a biochemistry major, and a team sponsored by the Dow-Corning Company have de­veloped a more precise mass spectrometry method for the diagnosis of porphyrias, helping streamline sample times and ultimately help in the medical and industrial fields. 
Ferguson said porphyrias is a group of rare diseases characterized by the over­production and accumulation of porphyrins, or chemical precursors to the creation of heme molecules, in the bio-synthetic pathway, causing neurological or skin prob­lems. Porphyrias are uncom­mon, but occur occasionally due to pesticide in soil and food, he said. 
“Heme is an important molecule in the production of hemoglobin and is responsi­ble for catalyzing redox reac­tions. It’s essential for life,” he said. “When precursors build up, they cause prob­lems in its production.” 


The team’s new method cut down sample time, which helped determine the toxicol­ogy of compounds used in sil­icone product studies by the Dow-Corning Company much faster than the traditional method. 
“The existing method used High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) to separate compounds, which took hours and was not very accurate. The flagship of our technique was using mass spectrometry to detect the molecules by looking at liver tissue, blood and feces sam­ples,” Ferguson said. “Basi­cally it operates at higher pressures to cut down on sample time.” 
The technique would be applicable in medical and in­dustrial studies, he said. The rapid detection system could be easily modified to identify other classes of molecules to diagnose other diseases. 
“It’s an important test and an easy one where physicians can send off a blood or urine sample to rule out porphyrias as options,” Ferguson said, “or in an industry setting it would let the researchers know whether the drug com­pound or cosmetic product they’re developing interacts with the heme biosynthetic pathway.” 
Ferguson said the group was waiting for approval from the legal department at Dow-Corning before it pub­lished the research. 
“The manuscript is fin­ished and ready to submit at any time,” he said. “We’re looking to see if patenting is a possibility, but once it’s in literature, it will probably be fair game.” 
Other industries and phy­sician groups will adopt the study and use it well after he graduates, he said. Ferguson said the research provided valuable experience since he plans to attend medical school next year. 
“It’s really a rewarding thing for everyone involved,” he said. 
Ferguson said his advice to undergraduates is to be ag­gressive when looking for re­search opportunities and to start early. He said he began the summer after his sopho­more year researching in a group led by Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Professor Jennifer DuBois. 
“Professors and undergrad advisors can be really help­ful, but they’re busy and sometimes it’s not the first thing on their mind. Espe­cially for science majors, you have to show you want to do it,” he said. “Like a good Notre Dame student, use your resources.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Carroll 
continued from page 1 
6 and 8 p.m. 
Carroll SUB commission­er, sophomore Ethan Mon­temayor, said the carriage rides will be a big draw, but the walk to Carroll will be equally as pleasant. 
“The path will be lined with luminaries, so it is a very pretty walk on a nice 
December eveni ng,” Montemayor said. 
Also new this year will be a service project that visitors can complete during the event, Weiss said. 
“It is in conjunction with another club,” Weiss said, “and it 

“It’s the week we all 
dining halls

look forward to, despite Th ursdaythe fact that everyone and Fridayhas finals and all afternoon,” sorts of papers due in Weiss said. the next two weeks.” Weiss said the men of Carroll are very excit-
Mike Weiss 
ed for their 

Carroll Christmas commissioner 
sig nature 
is writing letters to soldiers abroad or people in under­developed countries.” 
Because Carroll is such a small dorm, everyone pitched in to help with their signature event, Weiss said. 
“Everyone has been down­stairs, decorating every night,” Weiss said. “It’s a big community-building event.” 
Montemayor said the will­ingness of all the Vermin to set up the event makes Car­roll Christmas so successful. 
“Everyone’s been pitching in a bunch,” he said. “It’s re­ally nice to see all years here at Carroll, from freshmen to seniors, all pulling for this event to happen.” 
Montemayor said the mul­tiple contributions from dorm residents has made the decorations quite impres­sive. 
“The halls are decked,” he said. 
In addition to decorating, the men of Carroll also took shifts to publicize the event. 
“I would say half the dorm 
signs up for a shift to hand out fliers and candy canes out­side both 
event. 
“It’s the 
week we all look forward to, despite the fact that everyone has finals and all sorts of papers due in the next two weeks,” he said. 
Montemayor said he is ex­pecting a large turnout for the event. 
“It’s a great time to come out, have a bit of a walk, meet some great people, have some food, have some cookies, take a picture with Santa, listen to the glee club 
— you can’t go wrong,” he said. 
Contact Tori Reock at vroeck@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, December 2, 2011 
‘Toys’ exhibit showcases handcrafted trinkets 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Santa Claus will have an extra helper when spreading holiday cheer this year as the “Toys” ex­hibit comes to Saint Mary’s Col­lege. 
“Toys,” a presentation of hand­crafted wooden toys and puzzle pieces, will be on display in the lobby of the Cushwa-Leighton Li­brary from Dec. 6 through Jan. 
12. The exhibit will feature toys created by George Efta, other crafts that were given to him as gifts and pieces that he pur­chased. Efta is one of the nation’s leading craftsmen of handmade wooden toys and puzzles and is married to Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney. 
Bob Hohl, reference librarian and curator of the exhibit, said the Saint Mary’s community is excited to host Efta’s public debut. 
“What is more quintessential of Christmas than a toy handmade and given with love?” he said. 
According to Hohl, the Cushwa-Leighton Library is decorated every year for Christmas, and 
Voices 
continued from page 1 
extremely moving with their incorporation of Bible passages and prayers. I was looking for the Christian identity at the core of the Catholic identity. I was looking for something like home, and I found it with Voices of Faith.” 
While the music initially grabbed Campion’s attention, she said the community’s diver­sity is one of the most reward­ing parts of participating in the group. 
“I really like having the op­portunity to be friends with such a diverse group of individu­als, especially considering Notre Dame’s relative lack of diversi­ty,” Campion said. “I sometimes get bored with the mainstream culture, so the diversity at Voic­es of Faith almost represents a different culture to me.” 
While diversity has always characterized Voices of Faith, Staples, Campion and Meza all remarked on how this year’s group has brought religious, ethnic and cultural diversity to another level. 
“This is our most diverse year ever,” Staples said. “We are so much bigger and so much better. I guess we’ve done great market­ing through our performances.” 
Campion said the group’s con­stant clapping and cheering dur­ing performances often surpris­es people, but ultimately leads to an enjoyable experience. 
“Energy is one of the hall­marks of our music,” Campion said. 
Voices of Faith will host its winter concert this Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Student tickets are $5. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at            abutts@nd.edu 
“Toys” will be a nice addition to the Christmas trees, wreaths and other seasonal decorations. 
“We are all ‘Gettin’ merry like Christmas,’ as Maya Angelou has written,” he said. 
A press release from Saint Mary’s said Efta has been de­signing, building and selling his handiwork for more than 35 years. After graduating from the University cars and other types of toys. 
“What really intrigues me is the whole range of toys and things that are childlike,” he said. “I have pieces from France, Egypt, Italy, England and other coun­tries. Toys are universal.” 
Hohl said he expects that the exhibit, which is free to the Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame commu­nities as well as the gen­eral public, 
of Notre Dame in 1972, Efta was inspired to create his own wooden crafts after he discov­  “I have pieces from France, Egypt, Italy, England and other countries. Toys are universal.”  will serve as a unique way to recognize the holiday season. “We hope  
ered a toy store  that  Saint  
in a Minnesota  Mary’s  and  
mall. “I thought to myself, ‘I can do  George Efta craftsman  Notre Dame students will enjoy this ex- 
that,’” Efta said,  hibit  during  
“And I couldn’t.  the next two  
But about three  weeks as the  

months later, I was actually mak-academic semester draws to a ing toys.” close; but we also invite families 
According to the press release, of the larger community to visit all of Efta’s pieces will be made during the holidays to celebrate from wood and include planes, the special joys of the season,” he said. 
In addition to the wooden toys crafted by Efta and the other art­ists, the exhibit will also include handmade puzzles, some of which are double layered. 
“George’s double-puzzles are a delightful surprise . two puzzles in one and when you remove the top puzzle, there is another un­derneath,” Efta said. “My favorite is the fishbowl with two curious and hungry red cats underneath.” 
The Cushwa-Leighton Library will also host a reception with Efta open to the public Monday, Dec. 12, from 4:40 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 





Friday, December 2, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
community members, allies able to bear these risks better Despite the challenges of be-the ally, you can make a huge
LGBT 

should let the community mem-than some of these other people ing an ally, Myers said people difference by consistent, even 
continued from page 1 
Because their risks are smaller than those of LGBT bers lead all anti-hatred initia­tives, Myers said. 
“You should be willing to take some risks for the group and for the cause,” he said. “You may be [in the LGBT community] … should not give up. small, behaviors. They can add Recognize that what you do is “Part of doing anything that up to a monumental differ-really pretty small compared to matters is persistence,” he said. ence.” what other people have going “These are challenging situa­on in their full-time lives.” tions and they get tiring, but as Contact Maria Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Notre Dame decks the halls for Christmas 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
With lights lining the dining halls, Christmas music blasting out of windows and wreaths dotting the doors of buildings campus-wide, the only thing keeping Notre Dame from be­ing a winter wonderland is the conspicuous lack of snow, though students are still deck­ing the halls. 
McGlinn and O’Neill Halls put up large wreaths the week before Thanksgiving break. According to McGlinn rector Sister Mary Lynch, the wreath is a beloved tradition. 
“Our shamrock wreath was made by one of the McGlinn residents a few years ago,” Lynch said. “She made it with wire, and we had the mainte­nance shop back it with metal and hang it up each year since.” 
The wreaths, shaped like the McGlinn shamrock and the O’Neill “O,” are not necessarily Christmas themed, but Lynch finds them seasonally signifi­cant nonetheless. 
“We thought about keeping them up all year, but then it would lose its wintertime ef­fect,” she said. 
Not content to have deco­rations exclusively outdoors, freshmen roommates Maggie Lawrence and Rachel Miceli of McGlinn Hall decorated their room on the first day back from Thanksgiving break. 
“We have Christmas lights up, gingerbread men across the window and paper chains in Christmas-inspired colors zigzagging across the ceiling,” Lawrence said. 
“Our entire section deco­rated, so there are giant pa­per snowflakes and ornaments dangling in the hallways,” Miceli said. “There are bells on the doorknob and giant red bows on the door too.” 
According to the main­tenance office, trees have been set up in Bond Hall, O’Shaughnessy Hall, the Jor­dan Hall of Science, the Hes-burgh Center, the Basilica, the Eck Visitor’s Center, the Main Building and the Stepan Hall of Chemistry. The individual departments purchase the or­naments and decorations, and maintenance teams have been working to set up the arrange­ments according to the depart­ments’ instructions. 
Employees decorated the din­ing halls, and many hall council members oversaw the decora­tions for their respective dorms. 
Notable decorations beyond the wreaths on McGlinn and O’Neill Halls include the “Have a Phoxy Christmas” banner outside Pangborn Hall and the cutouts of Santa and Mrs. Claus in the lobby of Walsh Hall. Oth­er campus traditions include Carroll Christmas, an annual Christmas party put on by the men of Carroll Hall, complete with a tree-lighting, a Glee Club performance and refreshments. 
Another major event is the Dillon Hall Light Show on South Quad, which begins with a per­formance Sunday at 7 p.m., an­other show at 9 p.m. and contin­ued performances throughout the week. According to senior Thomas Catanach, one of the organizers, about 6,000 LED lights are used to create the show. 
“Basically, we have a bunch of strands of Christmas lights sus­pended from the building and divided into different sectors,” Catanach said. “The sectors are choreographed to Christmas songs, and it’s all coordinated by computer.” 
Although impending finals can add great stress to the last few weeks of the semester, many students said they refuse to let them put a damper on their holiday joy. 
“We make up for the sadness and stress that finals bring by decorating and celebrating Christmas,” Miceli said. 
Contact By Ann Marie Jakuboski at ajakubo@nd.edu 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Down on the farm 
I had a moment of clarity when I began to slide in the manure. 
“Oh my goodness,” I thought. “I’m not cut out for the dairy farm business.” 
I didn’t fall face-first, but my clothes were not anywhere near as clean when I left the Clayton Crest Dairy Farm as when I arrived. 
“Wear clothes you can hose off,” John Clayton, one of the farm’s own­ers, told me. 

My time spent at the farm, on the several oc­casions I have visited the Middlebury, Ind., property, has been filled with cow ma­nure, barn cats, mooing, milk and baby calves. My mom is dating John Clayton, and I have tagged along when they go to do chores. I may not be cut out to dairy farm full-time, but I do enjoy spending time on the farm. 
The Claytons have a unique situa­tion. They do not own the farm that their cows live on — instead, they rent out some space on a much larger farm. They do this for multiple reasons — chief among them is that the entire family has full-time jobs on top of dairy farming. In fact, John Clayton’s day job is in the mental health business, and he works on the dairy farm and farms corn and soybeans. 
And I feel out of breath taking the stairs to my dorm room. 
While the Claytons may not own the farm, they are responsible for the chores related to their cows. That means someone from the family, whether rain, sleet or snow, has to go out to the farm to feed and water the cows, as well as take care of the calves and help the pregnant heifers. 
I had the pleasure of feeding the newborn calves in the “nursery,” as they call it on the farm. My first calf, a small bull calf only a day and a half old, was already on his feet and curi­ously wandering about.
 John showed me how to hold the bot­tle properly and how to hold the baby’s neck, but it wasn’t easy. Eventually I had one leg over the calf, straddling him and forcing the bottle between his lips. He would drink and drink, cough, shake his head violently and then want more milk. The trick was timing when he would shake his head so I didn’t get covered in his food. 
Beyond using these cows for milk, the Claytons show some of their cows. The family genetically breeds some of their cows for show, where they can sell embryos and eggs for thousands of dollars if their cows perform well. 
What the Clayton family and others like them are doing is much more than just milk and pails. They are part-time geneticists, hairdressers on show days, baby-sitters and technicians on farm equipment — all on top of being dairy farmers. 
As I stood there, ankle-deep in ma­nure (my poor, poor rain boots), I real­ized that working with these animals has given me a greater appreciation for what it takes to be a farmer in today’s economic climate. Keep these men and women in mind — especially as you slurp that bowl of milk and cereal in South, perusing The Observer before your morning class. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

‘20-12’ in 2012 

Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain has come up with a bold plan not just to reform the current tax code, but to replace it. It’s called ‘9-9-9’ — perhaps you have heard of it. It is both elegant and simple in execution: 9 percent personal income tax, 9 percent corporate tax, and 9 percent national sales tax. This both signifi­cantly decreases taxes for all Ameri-Mark Easley cans while increasing the efficiency and simplicity of tax collection. While Elephant in this is one possible and popular tax the Room code reform, other tweaks can also be made to achieve similar or better results. The tax code debate is here, ladies and gentleman! 
The one good thing about this recession and the failed economic policies of President Obama is we finally will be able to get this nationwide burden rectified. The middle class is increasingly pushing this issue to the forefront because our tax code is so bad. If you get the code printed by the U.S. government printing office, it amounts to well over 16,000 pages. These are rules, exemptions and regulations written by Congress and the Internal Revenue Service. Inside these pages are loopholes for rich and poor alike to cheat the sys­tem and pay much less than their due. This creates a system that is unfair to everyone and generates momentum for class warfare. Everyone hates to see big companies like GE (a company favored by the Obama administration, hmm...) or Google pay little or no taxes. 
Meanwhile, the middle class hates the fact that only half of Americans actually pay taxes, and only the top 1 percent pay the majority of the taxes that are collected. Lowering the taxes via a flat taxation scheme will simplify the process, create certainty in the market, reintroduce fairness to the tax code, and eliminate the power of lobbying and crony capitalism. 
Presidential candidate Rick Perry has proposed a flat tax alternative that will set both personal income tax and corporate taxes at percent. This maintains a flat and simple tax code without the potential disaster of enacting a national sales tax. This is a very reasonable proposal but I would do it one better in typical Herman Cain theatrical fashion. ‘9-9-9’ sounds good, but what about ‘20-12’ in 2012. ‘20-12’ will stand for 20 percent corporate tax, 12 percent personal income tax and 0 percent national sales tax. This would 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

lower the corporate tax from 35 percent to 20 percent, mak­ing America a much more competitive place to do business. The days of China as a cheap place to manufacture things are coming to an end. Studies show that in the next decade it will begin to be cheaper once again to produce products that are sold to Americans in America. This is due to wage and price inflation in China as they become richer. We can accel­erate this process and bring some of those factories back by lowering our corporate taxes (and encouraging energy inde­pendence, but that’s for another discussion). U.S. companies want to be in America, but it doesn’t make business sense to do so if America remains non-competitive in the global marketplace. 
A 12 percent personal income tax will drop the income tax significantly for most Americans. That means when you get your paycheck you suddenly have 10 to 20 percent more cash then you did before. How awesome is that? What are you going to do with that money? Well you are going to buy more stuff you need, invest it or save it in a bank so it gets loaned out to people that need it. Multiply this effect by millions of Americans, and you can see how this plan is going to rev up our economic engine and get us back on track. Government can never spend money more wisely than you can. Never for­get that. And frankly, I don’t care if you only made $100 this year, you can pay your $12 contribution to our nation just like the guy that pays $12,000 on his $100,000. No more loop holes and exceptions. We are all citizens of this country, and we should all pay in something for our benefits. 
The 9 percent sales tax is quite worrisome to many con­servatives because of the potential negative effects it will have on the poor and the economy as a whole. By adding a sales tax, you artificially increase prices across the board, which can have much greater long-term negative effects than just making the consumer pay more for products. It also complicates an otherwise simple solution to our tax problems. Leave it out, and instead let’s adopt ‘20-12’ in 2012 because not only does it sound good, but it’s going to feel good, too. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.” 
Albert Camus French existentialist, author & philosopher 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Set all things in their own peculiar place, and know that order is the greatest grace.” 
John Dryden English dramatist & poet 
‘Tis the season 
‘Tis my favorite season of the year. Why you might ask? Take a look around. Green is literally everywhere. Trees, wreaths, those awesome, Christmas sweaters, jackets, scarves — I’m almost overwhelmed. It’s fantastic. Since most of you are already wearing green this season, why not go green as well? Anna Gorman 
Let’s start with decorations. I’m The GreenMan impressed with the work I’ve seen so far. However, for those of you though who haven’t started, or who will be adding to your already extravagant displays in an effort to procrastinate during finals, I ask you to consider three things: reusing last year’s decorations, LED light strings and your recycle bin. 
If you feel like your old decorations are looking a little drab, take some time to revamp them. A little arts and crafts can go a long way and is always a higher priority than finals. LED lights are a bit more expensive, but they do save energy. And they’re cool — literally! LED lights don’t heat up like incandescent. 
Now for your recycle bin. My chal­lenge to you is to take one item from it and turn it into a decoration. Turn all of those old, unread copies of The Observer piled up in your room into snowflakes or use snack wrappers as a type of papier­mâché. 
For tree decorations, reuse your tinsel! String popcorn and spray paint pinecones. Make those adorable, edible gingerbread ornaments.  String up some clementine peels and fill your home with a citrus smell. If you have old puzzles lying around that are missing a few too many pieces, glue and spray paint them into lovely picture frames.  Most importantly, when it comes to the end of the season, please(!) don’t pitch the wrapping paper from your door or the garland hanging in the halls. Reuse and recycle! 
When it comes to gifts, remember it’s 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The cost of death 
Despite the common misconception, most active state in carrying out the death penalty isn’t a moral issue. It executions — less than 40 percent of is a public policy issue: a bureaucratic death sentences are imposed. issue, a systematic issue and a cost is-In a 2009 poll, police chiefs across sue. Sure, the death penalty may be a the country ranked the death penalty government administration of “justice,” as the least efficient use of taxpay­but it is more fundamentally a govern-ers’ money. “If you look at this from a ment administration. And when we, public policy perspective, from a tax-as Indiana residents, start evaluating payer’s perspective, in either case the government policies such as the Indi-person is going to die in prison. The ana death penalty (or the same policy only question is who picks the date.” in our home states), we must look at the First and foremost, the death penal-effectiveness, fairness and cost of the ty is a government policy. It therefore program compared to other alterna-must be evaluated as an imperfect tives. construction of government before it 
Currently, California spends $137 is evaluated on grounds of morality or million on the death penalty, while the justice. alternative of life imprisonment is es-If there is a more effective, more timated at $11.5 million. In Texas, the cost efficient way to both deter crimi­average death penalty case costs $2.3 nals and punish those who commit million, or three times the cost of maxi-crimes, it should be implemented. Life mum security imprisonment for 40 without parole is just as effective and years. Last year, a report by Indiana’s yet an exceedingly more cost-efficient State Legislature found that the aver-alternative to the death penalty. Pres­age cost of a death penalty trial was suring our state representatives to 10 times that of a trial for life without abolish the death penalty in Indiana parole — causing the state to pay over would free up funds for better uses of $10.5 million for death penalty cases taxpayers’ money. since 1990. 
Furthermore, taxpayers are bur-Amanda Koziel dened with the cost of a death penalty senior trial even when the death sentence is Pangborn Hall not carried out. Even in Texas — the Dec. 1 the thought that counts. First, for the packaging: If you still have newspaper leftover after the snowflakes (or if you’ve convinced yourself that that’s asking for a bit too much creativity), use it for gift wrap! You know what also makes for wonderful wrapping paper? Old grab­and-go bags. 
For those of you who opted against using reusable bags, this is one way you can make it up to me. Instead of rib­bons, consider using shoestrings or tape measurers. 
Second, for the stuffing: While stores may tempt us with sparkly tissue paper and noisy bubble-wrap, consider some earth-friendly alternatives. Stuff your packages with dry pasta you never got around to eating, or scraps of fabric from old shirts. 
Third, for the gift itself: If you haven’t gotten the hint yet that I love home­made, I’m suggesting the technique yet again. Family members always seem to appreciate these. If purchasing new is really your only option, take reusable bags to the store with you and opt for things that are made in an eco-friendly fashion. Have a coffee-lover in the fam­ily? They sell nifty reusable filters for most coffee pots. Help them stock up for next year with a bag or two of Fair Trade coffee beans. Or there are always numerous reusable mugs to choose from … You get the idea. 
‘Tis the season to be green, so go out there and make me proud. Happy green­ing and happy holidays! 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at 
askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Too fast, too furious 
Here’s an idea: let’s arm known and Jaime Zapata have been murdered weapons traffickers in the hopes of with fast and furious guns. Further-tracing the weapons back to Mexican more, over 200 Mexican lives have been drug cartels. Sounds absurd, right? claimed with weapons traced back to Not according to the Bureau of Alco-Operation Fast and Furious. hol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explo-Rather than lead law enforcement to sives (BATFE) and the Department of Mexican drug kingpins, fast and furi­Justice’s (DOJ) Project Gunrunner. ous operations wound up increasing the 
Project Gunrunner and Operation firepower of cartels and drug-related Fast and Furious was launched with violence with the more than 2,000 the goal of tracking “straw buyers”: weapons that were “walked” across our people who could legally purchase border. weapons in the United States and Rep. Darrell Issa and Sen. Charles in turn illegally transport them to Grassley have teamed up to investigate Mexico to sell to drug cartels. By forc-Project Gunrunner and to hold the ing gun shops to sell to these individu-individuals within the BATFE and DOJ als rather than report them and have accountable for the failed operation. them arrested, the BATFE hoped the Pressure has piled on Attorney General straw buyers and weapons would lead Eric Holder, who is responsible for the them within the Mexican drug cartel BATFE, regarding his knowledge of hierarchy. Project Gunrunner and why the failed 
On Dec. 14, 2010, Border Patrol project was approved in the first place. Agent Brian Terry was shot and killed While Holder denies knowledge of the while conducting a Border Control gun-walking operation, subpoenaed Tactical Unit Operation in Arizona. memos and emails sent to Holder’s of-Two of the guns found at the crime fice show that top Justice Department scene had matching serial numbers officials had received at least partial to guns that were purchased by Jaime briefings. Avila, a suspected straw buyer who Such a program never should have was being monitored by the BATFE been permitted to exist. Who will be after purchasing large quantities of held accountable? assault rifles at a Phoenix-area gun shop. Eric Robinson 
Since the “gun-walking” operations senior for Project Gunrunner began back in off-campus 2006, American agents Brian Terry Dec. 1 
UWIRE 

Facebook settlement reminds us to protect information 
Ever since social networking sites gained popularity among, well, nearly everyone, the question of online privacy on sites such as Facebook has entered the public eye. After a few too many run-ins with angry users and Editorial Board some question­able privacy Iowa State Daily settings, Face­book has settled a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission regarding user privacy violations. 
In the settlement, Facebook is re­quired to undergo privacy audits by an independent third-party every two years for the next two decades. 
Most of the FTC’s complaint related to Facebook changing its website privacy models without informing users. Infor­mation that was once private was made public without notification. 
Under the terms of the settlement, Facebook must now get permission from users before they alter the visibility of a user’s personal information. 
We are students applying for scholar­ships, internships, professional jobs, graduate school or other professional positions in this age of the Internet. We must be mindful of how we present ourselves on the various social network­ing sites and the information contained therein. 
Keeping your information protected on the internet goes beyond making sure nothing embarrassing pops up when you’re trying to make a good impres­sion. Information posted on social sites like Facebook can also be used to steal your identity or plan a robbery when you leave for vacation. 
The current Facebook privacy set­tings can be set to “public,” “friends” or a customized option for status updates and photos. Further privacy settings can alter things such as who can look up your information, who can write on your wall or who sees which apps you use. 

Most people don’t give much consider­ation to the privacy settings that Face­book automatically assigns their profile. The default for many settings allows everyone to see your information. Un­less you specifically go into the privacy controls and change this, your personal information is visible to the world. 
While Facebook will continue to address user concerns about privacy issues as they arise with new changes to the website in the future, it is the re­sponsibility of each person to make sure that their own information is secure and they are satisfied with their visibility on the site. 
No one will baby-sit your private in­formation on the internet, even if you re­strict access to only those that you have friended. Continue to be cautious about identifying information. Often we add acquaintances to our circle of friends without knowing much about them, en­trusting little more than strangers with our profiles. 
Facebook will be doing their part by participating in privacy audits, but us­ers must take responsibility for secur­ing their own information as well. Like many things, it simply comes down to being smart about what you reveal. Next time you log in, take a minute to check your privacy settings and information before posting that next status. 
This article originally ran in the Dec. 1 edition of The Iowa State Daily, the newspaper serving Iowa State Univer­sity. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

“Home Alone” 
There was a time when Macauley Culkin 

was the coolest kid around. Though that time has passed, his Christmas clas­sic “Home Alone” remains a favorite for younger generations. Though the movie it­self doesn’t center on Christmas, the holi­day is an important plot point. The story of a boy who defends his home from burglary may not sound like typical Christmas fare, but the Christmas carols, decorations and triumph of valiant youth make for a per­fect Christmas flick. 
“Elf” 
While this 2004 film hasn’t reached 24-hour marathon status, it is quickly becoming a Christmas classic. Will Fer­rell delights in this movie as Buddy the Elf, a human raised by elves. He returns to New York City and his birth father (James Caan) only to discover that he is -gasp- on the naughty list. Buddy brings Christmas joy and laughter to all in this film with his disarming smile and in­defatigable enthusiasm. At all the right points, the film is touching, hilarious, tear-jerking and uplifting. Do not forget to include this in your Christmas movie 
marathon list this year. 
“Miracle on 34th Street” 
Deciding which version you like bet­ter, the 1947 classic starring a very young Natalie Wood or the 1994 re­make with the precocious Mara Wilson, says a lot about a person. Then again, it probably says more about which one your parents chose to sit you in front of as a kid. No matter which one you’re partial to, this story of a department store Santa who might just be the real thing is always charming to watch. You can’t help rooting for Kris Kringle as he tries to prove his case in court at the 
end. 
“National Lampoon’s 
Christmas Vacation” 
This movie starts out in a very optimistic way with Clark Griswold preparing every­thing needed to make this the best Christmas ever. He invites the whole extended family to town (a few unwelcome guests show up as well) and decorates the house lavishly. He is eagerly awaiting the arrival of his Christmas bonus when he finds out that his miserly boss has decided to cancel them this year, making many of Clark’s plans go awry. Despite this sad occurrence, hilarity ensues, including Clark’s boss being kidnapped by his cousin. However, everything works out in the end and Christmas 
is saved. 
“Die Hard” 

This holiday film has everything you could ask for in a Christmas classic - fam­ily reconnection, a father’s redemption, Bruce Willis and, above all, the selfless spirit of helping one’s neighbor. Wil­lis plays John McClane, an overworked New York City police officer whose wife has moved to Los Angeles with their two children to pursue a career opportunity. McClane is visiting for the holidays, but it seems like he’ll need a Christmas miracle to keep his family together. Thankfully, one arrives in the form of Alan Rickman 
and a bunch of international terrorists. 
“A Christmas Story” 
Have you ever gotten your tongue stuck to a metal pole or worn so many layers that you couldn’t put your arms down? If you answered yes, then “A Christmas Story” might seem eerily similar to your holiday season. This 1983 film set in our beloved Northern Indiana follows Ralphie, a little boy on a mission to get a BB Gun for Christ­mas. With a family almost as crazy as yours and a plight that those who have wanted a “dangerous” toy for Christ­mas can relate to, “A Christmas Story” is a classic for a reason. TBS will be airing “A Christmas Story” in a 24­hour marathon beginning at 8:00 PM 
on Christmas Eve. 
“Love Actually” 

This was the original Holiday-themed ensemble romantic comedy, following nine interconnected love stories during the Christmas season. There isn’t much not to love about “Love Actually.”  The film fea­tures some of the UK’s most famous actors, including Alan Rickman, Kiera Knightly and rom-com titan Hugh Grant. With just the right amount of British humor (or should I say “humour”) and heartwarm­ing romance, “Love Actually” is the perfect movie to watch when you’re looking for a crunch time pick-me-up. Through the end of the semester, campus television station NDtv will be playing “Love Actually” on channel 53, giving you plenty of opportu­nities to snuggle up and watch during the 
cold days ahead. 

“The Holiday” 
Jude Law. Kate Winslet. Cameron Diaz. Jack 
Black … Jude Law. What more do you need in 
a holiday film? Maybe a little romance, the 
most charming home in England and ador­
able little girls that give you hope not all kids 
are devils? “The Holiday” has all of that and 
more.  Grab a mug of hot chocolate, a handful 
of your best friends and snuggle in to watch 
a film that will raise your spirits as you curse 
the fact that Law lives thousands of miles 
away. 

“It’s a Wonderful Life” 
If you haven’t seen this movie, you need to stop everything you are doing-even if it is writing a term paper-and rent it. George Bailey (Jimmy Stewart) finds himself down on his luck and imagines what life would be like if he had never been born. Luckily, his guardian angel Clarence (Henry Trav­ers) is there to help him out, showing him all the lives he has touched and the differ­ence he has made for his small town. This touching drama brings out all the impor­tant themes of Christmas in a beautifully acted package, inspiring Christmas spirit 
in audiences of all ages. 
“Muppet Christmas Carol” 
This classic film takes the tradition­al story of “A Christmas Carol” and the meaning of Christmas and tells it using the Muppets. What could be more fun? The story tells of a man named Scrooge, who cares more about himself and his money than others. With the help of the ghosts of Christmases Past, Present, and Future, Scrooge comes to realize what an unfulfilled life he is living and learns the true spirit of Christmas. The story ends on a happy note, but you’ll have to watch it to see exactly what it is. If nothing else, 
watch it for the Muppets. 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


“Peace on Earth/Little Drummer Boy” 
Bing Crosby and David Bowie made this Christmas mash-up a hit in the 1970s with a delightfully awkward video on the TV special, “Bing’s Crosby’s Merrie Olde Christmas.” While the video reeks of an old-time feel, the song remains a mainstay 
on the best Christmas playlists. 
“It’s the Most Wonderful Time of the Year” 
Nothing’s better than a truthful song, and you know Christmas really is the most wonderful time of the year. Andy Williams’ classic about the joys of the holiday season has aged well, and the magic certainly has not been lost. So pop in the song, get out 
your hot chocolate and be of good cheer! 
“It’s Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas” 
This classic song really gets you in the mood for Christ­mas, no matter who you are. Whether you’re young or very old, you will find something in this song to make you smile. Sung by the wonderful and popular Bing Crosby, this song talks about the signs that the Christmas season is beginning, like snow, music, decorations, bells, Christ­mas trees, toys, general merriment, etc. Everything that is mentioned in this song instills in the listener a sense of warmth and excitement (except maybe the part about wanting school to start again). No matter where you are in life, even if you are frantically studying for finals, this 
song can still bring happiness to your heart. 
“The Christmas Song” 
Cole’s Christmas classic simply must be on 
everyone’s Christmas playlist. It has every­
thing we love about Christmas, Chestnuts 
roasting on an open fire, Jack Frost nipping 
at your nose, and it gives you that good old-at­
home feeling that makes you want to curl up 
with some hot chocolate. 
“The Office” — “Christmas Party” Episodes 
Any Christmas party episode on “The Of­fice” is guaranteed to be one of the best epi­sodes of the season. The people at Dunder Mifflin never fail to throw a bizarre holi­day party that always creates the perfect personal drama, crammed with comedy in 
between. 

“The Year Without a Santa Claus” 
This film was originally a Christmas 
TV special, and while it still plays often 
during Christmas season, it has become 
so popular that it has been released on 
DVD. Santa wakes up on Christmas with 
a terrible cold and is advised by his doc­
tor to take a holiday off instead of deliver 
presents because no one seems to care 
about Christmas anymore. Elves Jingle 
and Jangle must find people who still be­
lieve in Christmas, and their adventures 
outside the North Pole are entertaining. 
Oh yeah, and this film features the musi­
cally talented Heat Miser and Snow Mi­
ser, the memorable duo who never get 
along but must in order for Christmas to 
happen. It’s a touching Christmas classic 
that you shouldn’t miss. 


“Carol of the Bells” 
Descended from a Ukrainian carol, this choral Christmas tune has been growing in popularity since translated to English in the 1930s. Numerous versions of the song abound, so revel in the melodic wonder of 
any of these hauntingly beautiful “Bells.” 
“12 YATS of Christmas” 

Those of us from Louisiana (or more generally the South) will already have this song very close to our hearts. How­ever, even if you are from somewhere far away, this song is so full of fun that you should still check it out. It takes the popular classic “The 12 Days of Christmas” and turns it on its head by changing the lyrics to reference pieces of Louisiana culture. From the Lower 9th Ward to the popular phrase, “Ate by yo momma’s,” to a crawfish taking the place of a partridge, this song is full of unusual rhymes and in­novative uses of the numbers themselves. No matter where 
you’re from, this song should be in your repertoire. 
“Do You Hear What I Hear” 
Bing Crosby made this classic Christmas tune popular in the 1960s, and its popu­larity has only skyrocketed since then. Performers like Carrie Underwood and the “Glee” cast have recently released ver­sions of the song, joining the likes of Bob Dylan, Whitney Houston and Robert Gou­let. The song is a beautiful plea for peace that was written during the Cuban Missile Crisis but still resonates today. Its lyrics are touching, and Crosby, whose version is still the best, has a wonderful voice sure to 
bring Christmas cheer. 
“The Christmas Song” “All I Want for Christmas is You” 

If you are somehow not familiar with this song at this stage in your life, you must be walk­ing around with cotton in your ears. As soon as Christmas songs are socially acceptable, this song is on every radio station, in every home, blaring from Fisher’s windows and sung well or poorly in all the showers. Mariah Carey’s hit, which has topped the charts for many years, will always get stuck in your head. Just by the first notes, consist­ing of sharp high bell sounds, you know what’s coming. With her catchy tune, repetitive words and distinctive voice, Mariah is sure to be played 
all around campus. 
“Baby, It’s Cold Outside” 
This duet is a heartwarming conversation between two people, generally though of as a Christmas song because of the mention of the snowy outdoor temperatures. Zooey Deschanel and Will Ferrell made this song popular in their hit film, “Elf.” But with lyrics like, “I’ve got to go home; baby, you’ll freeze out there; say lend me your coat; it’s up to your knees out there,” it’s a 
beautiful romantic song for all audiences. 
“Santa Claus is Coming to Town” 
Cole’s Christmas classic simply must be on No song does a better job of getting to the holiday season’s everyone’s Christmas playlist. It has every-bottom line than “Santa Claus is Coming to Town.” Be good thing we love about Christmas, Chestnuts so that Santa will bring you presents. That is a simple mes-roasting on an open fire, Jack Frost nipping sage that kids can understand, and it offers an incentive for at your nose, and it gives you that good old-at-good behavior for all those children who have a hard time home feeling that makes you want to curl up with morality and stuff. First heard on Eddie Cantor’s radio 
with some hot chocolate. show in 1934, the tune has since been recorded by over a hundred artists, but the most popular version today might be the one by Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band. 

“Seinfeld” — “The Strike” 

This memorable episode of the hilarious series introduced to the world the holiday of “Festivus.” Frank Costanza’s father (Jerry Stiller), hating the commercial and religious aspects of Christmas, makes up his own holiday. The holiday includes the airing of grievances, feats of strength and a Festivus pole instead of a tree. The holiday, of course, is a source of tension in the Costanza family, but that just makes the episode even fun­nier. If you are looking for an alternative holiday to celebrate this winter, 
look no further than this “Festivus for the rest of us!” 
“How the Grinch Stole Christmas!” 
Skip the Jim Carrey version of this mov­ie, whose only redeeming moment is Cindy Lou Who (Taylor Momsen) singing, “Where Are You Christmas?” The animated ver­sion, made in the 1960s and based off the Dr. Seuss book, is still the best version of 
the movie. 

Mean Mr. Grinch tries to steal Christmas from the Whos, but he can’t steal the spirit and joy of the holiday, just like finals and airport delays will never kill the joy for all of us as we struggle towards Christmas break. The film is a moving testament to the 
true meaning behind Christmas. 
“A Charlie Brown Christmas” 
Charlie Brown finds himself depressed as Christmas approaches despite all the festivities and presents he sees around him. He is deter­mined to discover the real spirit of Christmas, and it takes a school pageant to remind him that he doesn’t have to get dragged down by the commercialization of the holiday, but can rejoice in the true meaning of Christmas-the 
birth of Jesus Christ. 

“Rugrats” — “A Rugrats Chanukah” 
The Rugrats always had very active imaginations, and in this holiday episode they put them to good use, envisioning themselves as the actors in the Hanukkah story and explaining the holiday to all their young viewers. The show was one of the first specials recognizing a Jewish holiday and, while a childish interpretation of the story, still promotes the lesser known holiday to the masses of children that loved following the lives and adventures of Tommy and his pals. It provides innocent fun, so consider putting it on 
your watch-list this holiday season. 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, December 2, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The 12 Gifts of Sports 
To quote a popular Christmas carol (and a possibly more popular ESPN commercial), it’s the most wonderful time of the year. 
The holiday season is upon us, which means not just celebra­tions and parties, shopping and gift-giving, but also sports. In the spirit of the 12 days of Christmas, I give the you the 12 best things about sports during the holidays. 
12. Base­ball’s Winter Meetings 
Often the most impor­tant off­season moves are made at these meet­ings in early December, and this year should be no different, as big-name free agents Albert Pujols and Prince Fielder are currently on the market. The Yankees will spend too much money, the Red Sox will try to keep up, small market teams will barely get involved and Cubs fans will once again proclaim that this is their year. 
11. Fantasy Football Playoffs 
Week 14 of the NFL season is certainly not the start of the playoffs for the real teams, but for fantasy football players, things are starting to heat up. Because teams who have already clinched playoff spots have a tendency to sit their starters for the last week or two of the season, fantasy players move their playoffs back a few weeks and get even more excited about individual performances than normal. 
10. NFL Playoff Races 
9. Quest for Perfection (or lack thereof) 
For those who prefer real football, the holiday season brings playoff races in the NFL. Teams will battle for one of six playoff spots in each conference, some making late season runs and others unbelievable collapses. Teams like the Indianapolis Colts will make a strong run for the leagues worst team and the right to draft Andrew Luck, while the Green Bay Packers will make their attempt at perfection. 
8. College Basketball Confer­ence Play 
The holiday season also means that college basketball teams fin­ish with their out-of-conference schedules and start conference play. Whether you’re looking for a classic Big-10 matchup in which the two teams struggle to combine for triple-digits or a Big East game pitting two of the top teams in the nation, conference play surely will not disappoint. 
7. The NBA on Christmas Day 
Sports fans expect to be enter­tained every day of the year, and the NBA takes up the task of doing 

Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 
so on a day on which every other American gets to stay home. This year’s games will be even more exciting, since they will be the first games of the year in a lockout-shortened season. All the stars will be out on Christmas — let the LeBron bashing begin. 
6. ESPN’s Bowl Game Coverage 
5. Ridiculous Quarterback Play 
ESPN is often accused of over-coverage, and the bowl season is no exception. But thankfully, when it comes to bowl games, there is no such thing as too much coverage. Also, because most bowl games are played in warm climates and because the MAC does not believe in defense, the early bowl games always have the potential to be incredibly high scoring, which is nothing if not entertaining. 
4. Heisman Trophy Ceremony 
Once again televised by ESPN, the awarding of the Heisman Tro­phy gives analysts and fans alike the opportunity to celebrate the great seasons of the best players in college football (Andrew Luck, Trent Richardson), remember the best Heisman winners of the past (Tim Brown, Tim Tebow) and laugh at those who, after winning the Heisman, couldn’t stay on an NFL roster (Eric Crouch, Charlie Ward). 
3. SEC Domination Over the Big-10 2.Bowl Games on New Years Day (or the day after) 
Most years, Jan. 1 is a day chock-full of high-quality college football games, including three match-ups between the SEC and the Big-10. And while college football fans will have to wait until Jan. 2 this year because of NFL games on New Year’s Day, the nation’s most talented conference will still run up and down the field on the nation’s most overrated conference. Last year the SEC defeated Big-10 teams by a com­bined 93 points. Can they make it 100 this year? 
1. Watching Sports with Family 
The holiday season often offers a unique opportunity for families to watch sports together. Whether it’s ordering a pizza and watch­ing a bowl game with your dad and brothers (or, in my case, dad, uncle and cousins) or eating a de­licious home-cooked meal with an NBA game on in the background, sports is for many an integral part of the holiday experience and a great way to bond. So when your mom asks you to turn off the TV and sit down to eat, remind her of all the ways sports bring people together. Then turn the TV off anyway — she’s your mom after all. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

NBA players return to practice 
Associated Press 

Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony returned to work Thursday — and immediately were asked about working to­gether. 
Dallas Mavericks players took the floor without know­ing if starting center Tyson Chandler would ever join them, and the Miami Heat team they beat in the NBA fi­nals arrived to some bad in­jury news. 
Finally, NBA players are back. 
Owners opened the doors of their facilities to players for the first time since locking them out July 1. Exactly one month after the regular sea­son was originally scheduled to begin, players could work out but their coaching staffs couldn’t be present because there isn’t a new labor deal yet. 
“I’ve got to be the hap­piest person in the world right now just to be back in the gym, getting a chance to work out with a couple of my teammates,” Paul said in New Orleans. “I’m just happy to be back and be back on the court, as I’m sure all the players are.” 
League officials hope to open training camps next Fri­day, and that stayed on track Thursday when more than 300 players submitted sig­natures authorizing the re­formation of the players’ as­sociation. That paves the way for negotiations to continue on the remaining issues, and both sides hope the deal is ratified sometime next week. 
The league planned to re­turn player content, images and videos to NBA.com and its other media by Friday morning after removing it when the lockout began. With the lengthy labor fight all but over, a sense of excitement has returned. 
“Yeah, it was,” Milwaukee general manager John Ham­mond said. “Since it was an­nounced that the potential deal was imminent, it oc­curred immediately. I think immediately, you could kind of feel that in your gut: ‘Here we go, we’re getting ready to get started again.’ I think as each step progresses, that will continue.” 
In the meantime, the big news remained the focus on the headliners of the 2012 free agent class, which also includes Dwight Howard. 
The agent for Deron Wil­liams told The Record of Ber­gen, N.J. that his client would opt for free agency instead of a contract extension with the Nets, and Yahoo Sports reported that Paul’s agent in­formed the Hornets that he wanted a trade to the Knicks. 
Paul and Anthony are friends who spent time to­gether this summer and it’s long been speculated they wanted to play together, but Anthony denied trying to re­cruit his Olympic teammate. 
“As far as me recruiting Chris Paul, no, not at all,” he said at the Knicks’ train­ing facility. “We’re very close friends. I’m pretty sure you guys saw him in New York a lot due to the player meetings and stuff like that, but we’ve never had any conversation about him coming to New York. That’s something that I would leave up to him, him and his family. I’m staying away from that.” 
The Anthony trade saga lasted from the summer of 2010 until Denver finally dealt him to the Knicks in Febru­ary, and he said he doesn’t think the NBA needs a repeat of it now. Yet, he also real­izes that “regardless of what I’m saying right here today, that will be the biggest topic, the biggest discussion, at the beginning of the season, the beginning of training camp.” 
Paul will do his best to ig­nore it. 
“I don’t think about it, to tell you the truth,” he said. “I’m just ready to get out here and compete and hoop. This is what I do.” 
In the meantime, the sta­tus of the current free agents must be solved. Chandler is one of the biggest, and though he provided the Mavericks the interior defense they needed to finally win a title, they may not spend the money neces­sary to bring him back. 
“You can’t see my fingers or toes, but they are crossed hoping that Tyson’s coming back,” guard Jason Terry said. “He was a big part of what we accomplished here. We’ve laid a foundation. To take a step backward would be terrible. I’m not saying that we wouldn’t have a chance to win this year if Tyson doesn’t come back, but it definitely puts things up against us.” 

Chris Bosh, looking more muscular, arrived at Miami’s facility, where LeBron James and Dwyane Wade aren’t ex­pected until next week. The Heat also were without Mike Miller, who has battled inju­ries since signing there last summer. He will miss about eight weeks while recover­ing from hernia surgery this week. 
There was no guarantee Miller would return anyway, given the considerable specu­lation the Heat would waive him via the amnesty clause that will be in the new CBA. 
“I know Mike. He’s a strong guy, he’s going to stay posi­tive and he’s going to get back as soon as he can,” said Heat forward Udonis Haslem, who went to the University of Flor­ida with Miller and considers him one of his very closest friends. “The key with Mike is, we’ve got to fight him not to get back too fast. He’s go­ing to want to be out there. He’s going to want to play. He’s got to just pace himself and get healthy.” 
Otherwise, the news around the league was posi­tive. Golden State GM Larry Riley was greeted with a warm welcome from a secu­rity guard upon his arrival at Oracle Arena. 
“That guy greeted me with a huge smile and just happy to be back,” Riley said. “I think that’s the opinion, that’s the feeling that we’re going to see out of a lot of people. Now he’s a happy guy anyway. But he was overly happy today.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE PERSONAL General Christmas Facts December 6 is St Nicholas’s Day The biggest selling Christmas Santa’s Reindeers are Dasher, 
- the first of the gift giving days, single of all time is Bing Crosby’s Dancer, Prancer, Vixen, Comet, The first printed reference to especially in Holland and Belgium. White Christmas. Cupid, Donner and Blitzen. Christmas trees appeared in 
Investment property in South UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Germany in 1531  The first American Christmas carol Bend. 1333 Belmont. New remodel go it alone. Notre Dame has many was written in 1649 by a minister On Christmas morning since A wreath with holly, red berries with new kitchen and bath. (apox. resources in place to assist you. In 1836, Alabama was the first named John de Brebeur and is medieval times, church bells have and other decorations began in 1600 SF finished) Paint and carpet If you or someone you love needs state in the USA to declare called “Jesus is Born” been rung to announce the coming the 17th century. Holly, with its new ready to move into. Four confidential support or assistance, Christmas a legal holiday. of the saviour. It was customary sharply pointed leaves, symbolised 
potential bedrooms and a full please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 from the 18th century to wear the thorns in Christ’s crown-of­basement. All new appliances. Call or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Mexicans call the poinsettia clothes and carry a small bell to thorns. Red berries symbolised the Jim 574-329-2368 for a showing information, visit ND’s website at: In 1856, President Franklin Pierce “Flower of the Holy Night” - the signify the birth of Christ. The drops of Christ’s blood. A wreath and more details. See it at: decorated the first White House Holy Night is the Mexican way of ringing of the bells was to signify at Christmas signified a home that MichianaOnlineRealty.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Christmas tree. saying “Christmas Eve”. the importance of the His Birth. celebrated the birth of Christ 
Friday, December 2, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary’s looks to snap three-game losing skid 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
This weekend Saint Mary’s will attempt to snap a three-game losing streak when it hosts Alma on Saturday. The Belles struggled offensive­ly in a 67-59 loss to Trine on Wednesday, shooting just 31 percent from the floor. 
“We played good stretches of defense, more in the second half, against Trine last night,” Belles coach Jennifer Hen­ley said Thursday. “We had a great comeback in the second half and had better rhythm on offense, we just ran out of time.” 
Senior guard Patsy Mahoney and senior forward Jessica Centa lead the Belles (2-5, 0-1 MIAA). Mahoney averages 14.9 


points per game and recently earned MIAA conference play­er of the week honors, while Centa chips in 11.9 points and 
4.9 rebounds per game. Along with improving its shooting, Saint Mary’s will focus on con­taining Alma (1-4, 1-0) defen­sively. 
“We still need to put to­gether longer stretches of good defense, but we are getting 
there,” Henley said. 
Alma’s freshmen pair of guard Grace Wheeler and forward Morgan Henry have made an instant impact for the Scots. Henry has been the team’s leading scorer for most of the season, and Wheeler averages 8.4 points and 6.2 rebounds per game. 
“Alma is young, but very well coached.” Henley said. “They are coming off a big win against Adrian on Wednesday night. 
“We need to find a way to contain their guards and continue to improve our 


transition defense in order to the Angela Athletic Facility. win,” Henley said. Saint Mary’s and Alma will Contact Brendan Bell at face off at 3 p.m. Saturday at bbell2@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Price leads Belles with a personal best 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

A monster one-mile swim from senior captain Megan Price highlighted the Belles’ first day of competition at the Calvin Winter Invitational. 
Price swam the 1,650-yard freestyle in 11:27.50, a per­sonal record by 28 seconds and one of the most impres­sive mile times in school his­tory. Her time should secure her 20th place overall, but timing difficulties in some of the mile heats prevented meet officials from publish­ing official times or team standings. 

Junior Liz Palmer also com­peted in the mile, also setting a new personal record with a time of 11:56.21. 
“Definitely some of the best swims came from the two girls who we had swimming the mile. Liz Palmer started us off, and she had a great swim herself, she dropped eight seconds.” Belles coach Mark Ben­ishek said. “Then we especially with some of the teams in there. We have quite a few Division II teams at this meet, and there’s one Divi­sion I team as well, [Valpara­iso], so there’s some great competition and some great results.” 
Benishek added that he ex­pects to see fast times from his swimmers in the 50-yard free-style. 
“There’s the [50-yard free­style] we have quite a few swimmers in that,” Benishek said. “We’re looking for quite of few of them to see some time drops. We had a little bit lighter week with the ta­per going into this meet, so I think all around we should defi­

had an nitely see a
“We have quite a few 
absolute -lot of time 
Division II teams at this 
ly amaz-drops.” 
meet and there’s one 
ing time Ben ishek 
from Me-Division I team as well, said that he gan Price, [Valparaiso], so there’s has so far one of our some great competition been im­team cap-and some great results.” pressed by tains. She the strength dropp ed and depth of 
Mark Benishek 
28 seconds some of the 
Belles coach 
and she just missed the top-five list for the program, so some absolutely great times, especially for the midway point of the season.” 
Price also led off the 800­yard relay, the only other event of the afternoon. She teamed up with sophomore Sarah Thompson and fellow senior captains Katie Dono­van and Audrey Dalrymple to finish 16th in 8:26.89, over a second below their seeded time. 
Benishek said he is looking forward to seeing Dalrymple compete in her signature event against some stiff com­petition. 
“Tomorrow we have the breaststroke, which is defi­nitely a big event for Audrey Dalyrmple,” Benishek said Thursday. “I think she’s seed­ed quite high; she’s in the top 16 I think, which is great, Division II 
schools com­
peting at the 
Invitational. 
“Some of the teams that definitely are very strong include Grand Valley State. They just naturally have a large, large team, and with the entries being unlimited, we’re kind of at a disadvan­tage being a smaller squad,” Benishek said. “They’re defi­nitely up there, as well as the University of Indianapolis they’re very strong. We were racing them two weeks ago at Wabash College, so we have seen some of that talent here as well, so definitely two very strong squads.” 
The Belles return to the water Friday for the second day of the Calvin Winter In­vitational at Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, December 2, 2011 
-
-

Friday, December 2, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
-

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, December 2, 2011 
-

Friday, December 2, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page  15 
2 “The People and Its Leaders” muralist 
3 Tangy pie fruit 4 Amsterdam-based financial 
giant 5 Pitch ___ 6 It means nothing 7 De Matteo of 
“The Sopranos” 8 Note passers? 9 Korean War 
leader 10 Filling yarn 11 “Look at me, ___ 
helpless …” (first words of “Misty”) 12 What may come before so much? 13 How Ginger Rogers danced 14 Taken for 15 “Discobolus” sculptor 
22 New York’s ___ Building, designed by Mies van der Rohe 
23 Crazy way to go? 
25 Jerry in the Basketball Hall of Fame 
26 Polo and others 27 Go out with ___ 28 Some Parisian 
income 29 Walter ___, two-time winner of golf’s U.S. Open 
Puzzle by Tim Croce 
30 Echo, e.g. 31 Short 34 Some rodeo 
bulls 35 Doesn’t lay off 36 Actress Ullman 37 Boil down 38 Some idols 
40 Heat divisions 42 Part of a Molière work 43 Abram of “This 
Old House” 44Oh so 45 Res ___ Ioquitur 46 “How’s it ___?” 

WILL SHORTz 
47 ___ Minor 
48 Like some monuments: Abbr. 

51 Wilfred Owen poem “Dulce et Decorum ___” 
52 Scotland’s longest river 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay.Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Theory related to eugenics 
16 What good competitors may give one 
17 Part of many confessions 
18 Old Testament book before Neh. 
19 Some services 20 Composer of “1/1,” “1/2,” “2/1” 
and “2/2” 21 Some HDTVs 23 Noodle 24 Guidebook 
listings for the budget-conscious 
32 Gossips 33 Winter cry in New York 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
34 Riddle 

36 Like some cross-dressers 
38 Stoker who wrote “Dracula” 
39 “Hooked on Classics” 
company 

41 “That’s the spot” 
42 Pacific, perhaps 
49 Here, in Juárez 
50 Fictional maker of earthquake pills and elephant bullets 
53 Feature of the ideal path 
54 Some I.T. experts 
Down 

1 More prudent, say 
JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE KELLy LyNCH AND JOE MILLER 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, December 2, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
HOCKEY 

No shortcuts allowed 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
On Oct. 21, No. 2 Notre Dame opened the brand-new Comp­ton Family Ice Arena with a 5-2 win over Rensselaer. In doing so, the Irish (10-3-3, 7-2­3-0 CCHA) also kicked off an 11-game unbeaten streak that seemed to peak last Friday with a dominant 4-1 win at No. 14 Lake Superior State. 
That all came crashing down in the second leg of the series, however, as the Irish dropped a 5-2 decision to the Lakers on Saturday. This weekend, Notre Dame hopes to erase that bit­ter taste as it hosts Northeast­ern. 
“[The players] should be up­set about how that game went last Saturday night, because … we went from one of our best games of the season on Friday night, in my opinion, to being loose with the puck,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “It was the seventh game in 15, 20 days, but ... it isn’t an excuse, none of it’s an excuse, because if we eliminate the penalty-killing goals against, we’re right in that game.” 
Jackson said he had been pleased with his team’s prog­ress on both special teams un­til this past weekend. 
“We were going really good there for a while until this weekend,” he said. “Our power play’s been more consistent, a work in progress in some ways. I think our penalty had made real good strides until Saturday night … but I thought that we had been doing really well.” 
see JACKSON/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish prepare to take on conference rivals 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 

The Irish will travel to Columbus for the Ohio State Invitational this weekend to compete in the biggest meet of their season thus far. 
“This meet gives us the opportunity to see where we are this far in the sea­son,” Irish coach Brian Barnes said. “This is the first meet this year that will be in championship for­mat. There has been a lot of preparation and hopefully it will lead to high perfor­mances.” 
In this three-day meet, the Irish will face four Big Ten rivals including the hosting Buckeyes, Michi­gan State, Purdue and Penn State. Purdue defeated the Irish 168-131 in South Bend earlier this season. 
“This will be a great meet,” Barnes said. “We are competing against some great competition. In this three-day meet everyone will be looking to swim well. I expect nothing but big per­formances and a fantastic finish to the weekend.” 
Barnes will look for team improvement and growth, 
see BARNES/page 12 
ND WOMEN’S TRACK 

Exhibition meet sets groundwork for success 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 

The Irish kick off their season Friday when they participate in their annual Blue & Gold Invitational at the Loftus Center. 
Along with Notre Dame, competing teams include Butler, DePaul, Detroit and Marquette, as well as Beth­el College of the National Association of Intercolle­giate Athletics (NAIA). 
Irish coach Joe Piane said the meet will be used as a practice run for all teams involved. 
“It’s an opportunity for student-athletes who don’t run cross country but have been training all fall to see where they are at in terms of their training and condi­tioning,” he said. “It com­pares to an exhibition game for basketball. This is sort of an exhibition for us and probably the other teams as well.” 
Looking to make a big im­pact for the Irish this season is a handful of competitors. 
see IMPACT/page 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Brey shows optimism as team heads to Maryland 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
If Spokane, Wash., was the frying pan, then Washington, D.C., may as well be the fire for the Irish. Notre Dame, fresh off a blowout 73-53 loss to No. 18 Gonzaga on Wednes­day, will make a cross-coun­try trip to take on a danger­ous Maryland team Sunday. 
The youthful Irish (5-3), whose roster only features one healthy senior compared to last season’s four, looked rattled at Gonzaga’s McCar­thy Athletic Center, turning the ball over 17 times, in­cluding 11 times in the first 12 minutes. But Irish coach Mike Brey was optimistic af­ter Wednesday’s game, prais­ing the effort of his big men while realizing the team’s maturity will come with ex­perience. 
“Tom Knight gave us some good stuff and that is his first time in big-time action,” Brey said in a postgame ra­dio interview with UND.com Wednesday. “And we have got to build on that. Jack Cooley too. Those guys battled. 
“I think our maturity level is still something that has to come. The great thing is that we get back to practice Friday and can get better before we go on the road again to play Maryland Sunday. 
“[We need] some more toughness, [to be] better with the basketball on Sunday, and I’d like to see the results 
see TURNOVERS/page 13 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
McGraw readies ND for Penn 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Following a last-second victory over Duke that fea­tured a school record-tying comeback, the No. 3 Irish return home to face Penn­sylvania, a program that has never beaten a top-25 opponent, on Friday. 
Nevertheless, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said Notre Dame (3-1) has no inten­tions of losing focus and emphasized the importance of tonight’s contest. 
“This is a really big game for us because our re­bounding has been so bad,” McGraw said. “We need to get back out and play. We’ve had a week off, so we’ve had a chance to work on some things, and tomor­row’s going to be a big test 
see MCGRAW/page 12 







