The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s

Volume 45: Issue 60	Tuesday, November 29, 2011	Ndsmcobserver.com

University strives to reduce carbon emissions

By MEGAN DOYLE
News Editor
The University announced a new sustainability strategy that sets ambitious goals to reduce campus carbon emissions dra­matically in less than 20 years. 
The new Sustainability Strat­egy pledges to reduce the Uni­versity’s carbon footprint by 50 percent per square foot by 2030, according to a Monday press re­lease.
The strategy also outlines goals to improve water efficien­cy, expand sustainability edu­cation and divert 67 percent of campus waste from landfills by 2030. 
Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said in a press release that the plan builds upon the University’s past green ini­tiatives.
“We have made a great start: our carbon emissions per square foot have already declined 15 percent since our 2006-2007 baseline year,” Affleck-Graves said. “During that time, we have invested over $10 million in en­ergy efficiency, and we continue to invest in energy and water ef­ficiency technology as well as re­cycling infrastructure. But in or­der to achieve the goals we have now set for ourselves, we need the entire campus community to rise to the challenge.”
Director of Sustainability Heather Christopherson said plans for the new strategy began when the University founded the Office of Sustainability in 2008. 
“[The Office of Utilities] was investigating all options for its energy demands,” Christpher­son said. “We worked in con­junction with that effort and looked a lot at what other uni­versities have done, what other corporations have done in terms of what their goals have been … We wanted to create goals that made sense for Notre Dame, that were achievable but aggressive.” 
Christopherson said the strat­egy also includes plans to inves­tigate more alternative energy sources. 
“What’s in the strategy, as long it economically makes sense, is to push as much as we can to natural gas … which is a small­er carbon output than coal,” she said. “In this exact moment, it doesn’t make sense for us to in­vest heavily in solar or in wind.”
Educating students on how they can contribute to meeting this goal will be the first step to­ward a change, Christopherson said. 
“The University is making a commitment saying, ‘We commit to reduce carbon emissions, we commit to reduce our waste,’” Christopherson said. “The goal is to change the mindset of ev­eryone on campus [about sus­tainability.]”
Christopherson said the Of­fice of Sustainability will also continue to promote its current projects. Over 100 classes focus­ing on sustainability are taught each year, and minors in Sus­tainability and Energy Studies are growing. 
The University’s $2 million Green Loan Fund developed by the Office of Sustainability is also used to fund projects such as high-efficiency data servers, environmentally friendly laun­dry equipment, real-time elec­tricity metering in the residence halls and the annual CFL light bulb exchange, the press release stated. 
“One of the aspects of the strategy that is really important is that it is really flexible,” she said. “It is part energy conserva­tion, part look at fuel, part look­ing at renewable [resources] … We can adapt to changing tech­nologies.” 
Small changes from students, staff and faculty members can also help achieve the strategy’s goals, Christopherson said. 
“Being mindful of the energy that person consumes, so turn­ing off lights; game systems and televisions when they are not in use, putting computers to sleep when not in use; when a cell phone is not in use, unplug the charger … all of those little things, if all of us do those little things on campus together, it adds up,” she said. 
Student body president Pat McCormick campaigned for his administration on the platform of improving Notre Dame’s sus­tainability. Shortly after he as­sumed his office last April, the Student Senate passed a resolu­tion proposing the adoption of a comprehensive University sus­tainability strategy.
The resolution stated that the strategy should “include a plan that will aim to put the Univer­sity on a trajectory to reduce the University’s carbon footprint 70 percent from 2005 levels by 2050.”
McCormick and other student government leaders collabo­rated with the Office of Sustain­ability and the Office of the Ex­ecutive Vice President as they developed the final strategy over the past few months. While the new Sustainability Strategy does not exactly match the resolution, McCormick said he feels the plan is “aggressive, but achievable.” 
“The ultimate compromise that ended up developing as we talked about this was that we would have an interim target, a 2030 target that … would be based on gross square footage so you could have a measure that could incorporate the fu­ture growth of the University,” McCormick said.
The plan, however, could still meet McCormick’s most long-term vision. 
“What we are most excited about is that this still does put us on the trajectory to potentially have the kind of trajectory that we had hoped for in the Student Senate resolution by 2050, but it sets an interim target that al­lows us to have an interim set of goals,” McCormick said. 
McCormick said he sees stu­dents as important voices as the University attempts to meet its goals. 
“As we move forward, the key is going to be to ensure that stu­dents continue to have a place at the table when it comes to shaping this strategy,” he said. “We are just very grateful to Dr. Christopherson and Dr. Affleck-Graves in their willingness to re­ally allow students to play a role in shaping this effort.”
Contact Megan Doyle at                    mdoyle11@nd.edu


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic

see CARBON/page 5

Egyptians face civil unrest, political change

Citizens cast ballots, protest in historical parliamentary vote

Office of International Studies cancels Cairo     study abroad program


By NICOLE TOCZAUER
News Writer
Crowds lined the streets of Cairo on Monday to cast their votes in Egypt’s first parlia­mentary election since the re­moval of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak from office in February.
Political science professor Asher Kaufman said the elec­tion in an important step for the Egyptian people almost one year after the revolution that sparked the Arab Spring. 
“This is the first time since the early 1950s that they’ve been able to vote. There have been elections [in the past,] but they have been predeter­mined,” Kaufman said. “The party in power would expect seats in parliament and presi­dents could win most of the vote. The question now is: what will be the outcome?”
The week leading up to the first day of the election was not without violence in Tahrir Square. Kaufman said skir­mishes be­tween police and protestors killed more than 40 peo­ple. 
“There were less causali­ties than in spring, but this has also stopped be­cause we’ve arrived at the climax of election day,” Kaufman said. “Those who oppose the military council say the mili­tary will curtail the new par­liament, but it’s impossible to know what will happen.” 
While the polls functioned Monday, Kaufman said the lack of voting infrastructure forced some to wait in line for up to six hours. 
“The military council prom­ised to give power to a civil­ian government, but there are skeptics who believe other­wise,” Kaufman said. 
Tension between demonstra­tors and the military govern­ment has led to a disjointed Egypt, Kaufman said. 
“Unlike a year ago, there is no unified front,” Kaufman said. “Not all parties that dem­onstrated last year participated again, so the unity that defined the movement a year ago is no longer there. There are dis­agreements, so there are rea­sons for a possible continuation of violence. There is a cause to be worried.”
While the Muslim Brother­hood was active in the spring protests, Kaufman said the group was not a major player in the streets. Instead, he said the party was organized in its cam­paign and is expected to win a dominant role in Parliament. 
“The polls have not been closed yet,” Kaufman said. “But there are signs that the Muslim Brotherhood envisions a major victory. If they win, we will see an entirely new political landscape in Egypt. How­ever, it is not certain what would be the official policy of the Muslim Brotherhood, especially in a secular democratic branch of the government.”
Despite civil turbulence and an uncertain future, Kaufman said Egypt has entered a new era. 
“Democratic processes are bringing down rulers,” Kaufman said. “The West­ern world welcomed the Arab Spring and the downfall of Mubarak. So long as it contin­ues with little interruption, this could be a positive evolution. Still, there are too many ques­tion marks to be sure yet.”
Contact Nicole Toczauer at            ntoczaue@nd.edu

By SARA FELSENSTEIN
Associate News Editor
In light of the increased violence and unrest in Egypt, the Office of International Studies (OIS) can­celed the Cairo study abroad pro­gram for the spring semester last week. 
Ten Notre Dame students planned to attend the American University in Cairo (AUC) in the spring.
Kathleen Opel, director of OIS, said the University made the de­cision after the ongoing unrest in Cairo surrounding Egyptian elec­tions caused the U.S. Department of State to issue a series of emer­gency messages. 
“Just being there is not safe right now, and they’re not antici­pating that it’s going to get better soon,” Opel said. “We’re going to have flashes of this until there’s a government in place. Right now, there’s an emergency message for U.S. citizens … There have been five [emergency messages] just in the last week.” 
Notre Dame’s program in Cairo does not have its own center or di­rector overseas, Opel said, so the University could not be positive that it could provide for students in the case of an emergency. 
Opel said communication was a primary concern when the Univer­sity evaluated the current circum­stances in Cairo. 
“Last year during the disruption, the ATMs ran out of money, they shut down cell phones and Internet access … If you’re not sure of the communication possibilities, it s a riskier situation,” she said. “We just don’t feel confident enough to think that we can protect students.” 
Opel said while OIS wants to give students the chance to study in their location of choice, safety must be the priority. 
“This is a [hard] case,” she said. “The tipping point often comes from the State Department, but primarily our review of the overall situation and that it may not be a safe place for students to be.”
But she said students were pre­pared for the letdown. 
“All through the summer, the question was, ‘Will we be able to go to Cairo?’ We kept saying, ‘We’re monitoring the situation,’” she said. 
Junior Matt Keenan planned to study in Cairo in the spring. When he heard the news of the program’s cancellation, he said he was not surprised by the announcement but was “extremely disappointed.”
“I had a feeling it was com­ing, even though I was hoping it wasn’t,” Keenan said. “You know the whole time it kind of felt like it could be canceled. We knew since January things have been going on, and it can come up at any time.”
Keenan said considering the past week’s violence in Cairo — specifi­cally the arrest and detainment of three American students — he knew there was a good chance the program would be canceled. 
“With the recent things in the last week I was really hoping it wasn’t going to happen but I kind of understand that it would,” he said. 
Junior Ian Montijo said he un­derstands why the University would cancel the program, but still wishes he could go ahead with his studies at AUC. 
“It comes down to the University having to be responsible for us,” Mon­tijo said. “I don’t think the University wants to put itself in a spot where they’re at risk.”
The Cairo group met with OIS at the beginning of the semester, Opel said, and the office gave them three options for the spring. The first was to stay in the Cairo pro­gram, knowing it may be canceled in the future. The second was to enroll at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and the third was to enroll at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) in London.
Opel said most students were set on going to Cairo and decided to remain in the program.
Judy Hutchinson, assistant di­rector of OIS, met with students Monday to discuss their options now that the Cairo program is can­celed.
“Given the lateness of the se­mester and the fact that most other program deadlines are well past, the options are quite lim­ited,” Hutchinson said. “Some may be able to participate in a study abroad program at London SOAS, but I am as yet unclear if this will suit the academic needs of every­one in our program.”
Keenan said he appreciates the measures OIS is taking to still of­fer students a study abroad experi­ence in London. However, he said studying at a university in London is completely different from the cultural experience he hoped to have in Cairo. 
“They tried to accommodate us with school in London, but that’s not Cairo,” Keenan said. “It’s a school where we can take Arabic studies classes but it’s not the same atmosphere or experience.”
Twelve Notre Dame students were evacuated from Cairo last January when unrest erupted in the city, and OIS canceled the fall 2011 program last March. Opel said OIS has considered support­ing alternate programs for Arabic Studies in the future. 
“We’re always open to new ideas, and I can’t guarantee that we would open some­thing quickly,” Opel said. “The beauty of the AUC is that it has a whole ar­ray of courses in business, en­gineering, arts and letters, sci­ences, whereas if they go on one of the other programs, they’ll be pretty much limited to Arabic Studies.”
She said she thinks most stu­dents who were scheduled to go to Cairo in the spring will choose to attend SOAS. 
“Those details are still being worked out but we believe anyone who [needs] Arabic Studies [class­es] to complete their majors can go, and we’re in touch with SOAS right now,” she said.
But Montijo said SOAS isn’t a fit for his academic goals, so he has decided to stay in South Bend.
“At the end of the day it would have been more expensive and the classes I can take here would fit better with the requirements and everything I need,” Montijo said.“[In the future] I was plan­ning to go to Jordan or Morocco or somewhere else in the region and hopefully take classes there and travel around. Hopefully [I’ll] be able to see Cairo that way.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at              sfelsens@nd.edu

AP
Egyptian women line up outside a polling center in Cairo on Monday. The event marked Egypt’s first parliamentary election since authoritarian leader Hosni Mubarak was ousted nine months ago.

see CAIRO/page 5

see ELECTION/page 4

Irish finish regular season with third straight loss to Stanford

By ADAM LLORENS
News Writer
Saint Mary’s sophomore Nat­alie Schultz said while the Irish did not reign victorious on Sat­urday, they did win the battle of the uniforms.
“After they scored the last touchdown I gave up,” Schultz said. “Our helmets looked fan­tastic though compared to Stan­ford’s black ones, we just need to match up the pants to the helmets.”
Schultz watched the game in her friend’s dorm room at Saint Mary’s.
“My friends and I were so sad after the game, we actually be­gan to watch ‘Twilight,’” Schul­tz said.
The Irish football team closed out their regular season on a sour note, losing 28-14 at Stan­ford on Saturday.
Freshman Sean Hamilton, a northern California native, cheered on the Irish at Stanford Stadium and noticed a promi­nent showing of Notre Dame fans. 
“About a quarter of the sta­dium were Notre Dame fans,” Hamilton said. “Pretty impres­sive considering Stanford set the record for amount of fans at their stadium.”
Hamilton said the field condi­tions seemed horrible from his perspective in the stands.
“The field was awful and looked to be really slippery,” Hamilton said.
Hamilton said the outcome of the bowl game would largely rely on the opponent selected.
“We play pretty consistent­ly, we just need to see how it stacks up against the other team,” Hamilton said. “We al­ways seem to make the same mistakes.”
Saint Mary’s sophomore Jes­sica Carter said she thought the play of the Irish was terrible.
“I thought we could have played a lot harder than we did,” Carter said. “I was really happy when Coach Kelly put in [Andrew] Hendrix because I felt like [Tommy] Rees was having a bad day. He just was not there.”
Carter said she watched the game at home in South Bend with her family.
She said she thinks the Irish have a good chance of winning their bowl game.
“I hope we can play better,” Carter said. “The defense is do­ing better but I think we need to shape up our offense by giv­ing the ball to [Michael] Floyd more.”
Senior Julie Hyppolite chose not to watch the final regular season game of the year.
“I was at a surprise birthday party for a family friend who turned 50, but was not pleased with the outcome,” Hyppolite said.
Hyppolite said she hopes the team can play better for the bowl game.
“I feel like we play really slop­py sometimes, but I think we can do well at the bowl game,” Hyppolite said. “We have a lot of talent on our team and I think they can put it together.”
Contact Adam Llorens at                   allorens@nd.edu


PAT COVENEY/The Observer
Students watch Notre Dame take on Stanford on Saturday. The  Irish ended the regular season with a 28-14 loss to the Cardinal.

see GAME/page 4

Inside today’s paper

Students participate in Black Friday shopping page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u “The Muppets” review page 8 u Women’s basketball beats Duke page 16

The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com

Question of the Day: What are you asking for for Christmas?



www.ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Douglas Farmer
Managing Editor
Sarah Mervosh
Business Manager
Jeff Liptak
	
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Adriana Pratt
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Chris Masoud
	News Editor:	Megan Doyle
	Viewpoint Editor:	Meghan Thomassen
	Sports Editor:	Allan Joseph
	Scene Editor:	Maija Gustin
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Caitlin E. Housley
	Photo Editor:	Pat Coveney
	Graphics Editor:	Brandon Keelean
	Advertising Manager:	Katherine Lukas
	Ad Design Manager:	Amanda Jonovski
	Controller:	Jason Taulman
	Systems Administrator:	William Heineman
Office Manager & General Info
(574) 631-7471
Fax
(574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu
Saint Mary’s Desk
chousl01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.







Greg Mitchell
sophomore
Duncan
“World peace.”

Michael Prough
freshman 
Dillon
“Digital camera.”

Tony Poole
sophomore
Alumni
“Call of Duty Modern  Warfare 3.”

Michael Nolan
freshman 
Duncan
“More maps in the United States and Iraq.”

Garrett Blad
freshman 
Alumni
“A bike because mine got stolen.”

Sean Fitzgerald
freshman
Keough
“Socks —  the real thick ones that never flatten.”

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com

In Brief
Student government will host a blood drive in LaFor­tune Ballroom from 12 to 6 p.m. today. Sign up online at  givelife.org
O. Carter Snead, professor of law and director of Notre Dame’s Center for Ethics and Culture, will host a lec­ture entitled “Healthcare Reform: The Contraception Mandate and Institutional Freedom of Conscience” from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. to­day. The lecture will take place in Room 1140 in the Notre Dame Law School.    
 
Student government will  host open office hours to­day from 7 to 10 p.m. and Wednesday from 12 to 1:30 p.m. in 203 LaFortune Stu­dent Center for any students interested in sharing their views on constitutional re­form issues.
Martin Scorsese’s 2002 film “Gangs of New York” will show today from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center.
Alexander MacLeod, au­thor of “Light Lifting,” will read from his collection of short stories on Wednesday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore beginning at 7:30 p.m. 
Badin Hall will host Con­scious Christmas, a sale of fair trade handicrafts, Fri­day from 12 to 5:30 p.m. in the Badin Hall Social Space. The sale will benefit the Hope Initiative, an organi­zation supporting children in Nepal through education.
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com


PAT COVENEY/The Observer
Notre Dame student football managers juniors Sean Hannon and Brian Metz  survey the BCS National Championship trophy on the sideline of Stanford Stadium on Saturday evening during the Notre Dame vs. Stanford game. Notre Dame lost the game, 28-14.  

Offbeat

Trio charged in West Palm Beach toilet paper scam 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Talk about a dirty scam.
Federal prosecutors in Florida say at least three people working for a septic tank company duped cus­tomers into buying about $1 million in unnecessary products —  in some cases enough toilet paper to last more than 70 years.
More than a dozen cus­tomers were told they need­ed special toilet paper to avoid ruining their septic tanks because the federal government changed regu­lations on toilet paper. The federal government does not regulate septic tank prod­ucts.
The trio pleaded guilty in federal court to conspiring to commit wire fraud.
The Miami Herald report­ed that they worked for FBK Products. A phone number for the Riviera Beach-based company was not working Saturday.
The trio faces up to two decades in prison when they are sentenced in February.
Enraged snowman arrested in annual parade
CHESTERTOWN, Md. — Who says “Frosty the Snow­man” has to be jolly?
A man in a “Frosty the Snowman” costume was ar­rested Saturday during the annual Christmas parade in Chestertown, on Maryland’s Eastern Shore. He’s accused of scuffling with police and kicking at a police dog.
Sgt. John A. Dolgos tells The Star Democrat of Easton that 52-year-old Kevin Mi­chael Walsh became agi­tated when a dog-handling officer tried to escort him away from the crowd.
Walsh told The Associated Press that he has dressed as Frosty in the parade for at least 10 years. He says he was wrongfully arrested. He says an officer hassled him after he remarked about the police dog’s pres­ence. He says he became agitated only after getting arrested.
Walsh was released on his own recognizance.
Information compiled from the Associated Press.

Today’s Staff
News
Megan Doyle
Marisa Iati
Emma Russ
Graphics
Lauren Kalinoski
Photo
Tom La
Sports
Molly Sammon
Joseph Monardo
Laura Coletti
Scene
Ankur Chawla
Viewpoint
Ren Brauweiler

LOCAL WEATHER

THURSDAY

TODAY

TONIGHT

WEDNESDAY

FRIDAY

SATURDAY







Corrections
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.

HIGH	37
LOW	35
HIGH	36
LOW	32
HIGH	41
LOW	22
HIGH	38
LOW	26
HIGH	34
LOW	19
HIGH	34
LOW	29

The Observer u NEWS

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

ndsmcobserver.com | page 3

Students participate in Black Friday shopping

Campus Life Council

Group discusses Mod Quad lights

By EMILY SCHRANK
News Writer
In an effort to increase student safety on campus, members of the Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed the possibility of putting addi­tional lighting on Mod Quad during their meeting Monday afternoon.
Student body chief of staff Claire Sokas said she hopes the project is one the Univer­sity can begin to work on over Christmas break.
“We’ll be gone for over a month then,” Sokas said. “That’s something that could potentially be taken care of by the time we come back for the spring semester.”
Sokas said the CLC safety subcommittee has also dis­cussed printing a map of off-campus student housing, es­pecially for students venturing off on the weekends.
“This can give students an idea of how far off campus they are and if it is or isn’t a good idea to walk home,” she said.
Student body president Pat McCormick also reminded stu­dents to be mindful of safety during the end of the semester and Christmas break. 
McCormick said students living off campus should set alarms while away from their homes if possible during the break. He encouraged stu­dents to make use of the NDSP safe room, where they can store valuables over the break.
Diversity Council repre­sentative Alexa Arastoo said her subcommittee has also discussed the meaning of in­clusion and how it applies to Notre Dame students.
“There are two types of in­clusion,” she said. “One is about students who feel like they don’t fit on campus and how we can make them feel more included. The other 
is about inclusion amongst the different groups here on campus.” 
In this spirit of inclusion, Arastoo said her CLC subcom­mittee is working on the pos­sibility of putting a Virgin of Guadalupe statue on campus to reach out to the Latino student population.
“The first step in that pro­cess is contacting the Uni­versity architect,” Arastoo said. “So that’s something we would really like to get the ball rolling on and to have the backing of the en­tire CLC on.”
Contact Emily Schrank at                  eschrank@nd.edu



AP
Black Friday shoppers take a break at Westfield Galleria at Roseville in Sacramento, Calif. on Friday.

By JOHN CAMERON
News Writer
When major retailers like Walmart and Target began their Black Friday sales over Thanksgiving break, the shopping rush drew some Notre Dame students straight from the dinner table. 
Senior Michelle Ferreira, a Los Angeles native who stayed in South Bend for the break, started Black Friday on Thursday.
“I ended up leaving dinner at about 9 p.m. [Thursday], and I headed over to Walmart” she said. “They opened every­thing at 10 p.m. and it was pure chaos. It was absolutely nuts.”
Ferreira had never heard of Black Fri­day before coming to Notre Dame, she said, and she was sur­prised by how seriously some took the sales.
“People waiting had lawn chairs out, it was completely packed,” Fer­reira said. “You had to know what area you wanted, because people had obviously scoped it out days in advance. There was like a 200 person line in every aisle. I wanted to get out as soon as possible.”
Ferreira said some of her fellow bargain-hunters let the mania get the best of them.
“I didn’t see pepper spray­ing or gun shots or whatever, but I saw people crying, I saw some disputes between peo­ple,” she said. “They were cut­ting in line, there were some disputes between families — there was just chaos.”
Ferreira walked out of the store unscathed with a num­ber of additions to her movie collection.
“It was $1.96 for DVDs. And they were recent movies, too,” she said. “I got The Hangover and my brother wanted Fast Five Blu-ray for Christmas. They had it for $10.”
While shoppers like Fer­reira hit the aisles early, not all of the deals were snatched up by the time the second wave of shoppers arrived Friday. Junior Aurora Kareh opted for a Friday afternoon shopping trip at The Wood­lands Mall in her Texas home­town.
“It was 2 or 3 p.m. when we got to Macy’s,” Kareh said. “It was more full than I had ever seen it, but it wasn’t what I expected it had been when they opened.”
Unlike Ferreira’s DVD hunt, Kareh did not have a plan of action when she arrived at the mall.
“I didn’t have anything spe­cific in mind that I wanted to buy, but I knew Macy’s would have good deals on things I would be interested in,” she said. 
Junior Lexi Casaceli’s Black Friday shopping at the Lee Outlets in Lee, Mass., was even less de­liberate.
“We went after lunch on a spur-of-the-moment trip because it was such a nice day out, so we would be able to enjoy the weather while shop­ping at the outdoor out­lets,” she said. 
Like Kareh, Cascaceli avoid­ed the intensity of the late-night shoppers.
“Unfortunately, I saw noth­ing ridiculous,” Cascaceli said. “We had missed most of the Black Friday deals at the outlet that went from mid­night to 6 a.m., so the crazies weren’t out, although there were still a lot of shoppers.”
Ferreira said these gi­ant crowds, at least in South Bend, may be a result of the economic climate.
“In South Bend, it’s pretty nuts,” she said. “The econo­my is hurting people, so ev­eryone’s taking advantage of what they can with savings.”
Ferreira said one Black Fri­day shopping trip was enough for her. 
“I won’t be going back next year,” she said. “I’m a senior, so no more South Bend crazy Black Fridays for me. Unless I need a 70-inch plasma for half-off down the road, no thanks.”
Contact John Cameron at                   jcamero2@nd.edu


“I didn’t see pepper spraying or gun shots or whatever, but I saw people crying. I saw some disputes between people.”
Michelle Ferreira
senior


The Observer u NEWS

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com

SMC implements new Mass translation


By ALISON WINSTEAD
News Writer
Sunday marked the first use of the new translation of the Roman Catholic Mass, and Saint Mary’s Office of Campus Ministry said the transition went without a hitch. 
Regina Wilson, assistant director of campus minis­try, said she hopes the new translation will help students think more about the mean­ing the words they recite dur­ing the Mass. 
“I feel the change in the translation of the liturgy gives all the faithful a new and rare opportunity to reflect more carefully on what we are saying in our worship,” Wilson said. 
Wilson said her office began preparing for the change and practicing the new translation in October.
“From what I observed on Sunday’s Mass people are paying more attention,” Wilson said. “They’re notic­ing new phraseology and words as the liturgy went on. The liturgy seemed to progress smoothly with a few little mix-ups as people spoke the old responses they all knew so well. It will take several months for all of us to internalize these changes.” 
The changes were made to unify the Masses more and for a better translation for the original Latin text. In the new translation, for example, the congregation will say, “And with your spirit,” instead of “And also with you.” 
“Over time, we will grow more accustomed to this new translation, and it will feel more comfortable to us,” Wilson said. “We have the added benefits of some rich new texts to contemplate as we pray which should benefit to our faith and in the end, our relationship with God.” 
Sr. Amy Cavender, a politi­cal science professor at Saint Mary’s, said the ritual edi­tions of the Roman Missal typically arrive at parishes in October. 
Among other things, the revised edition of the Mis­sal contains prayers for the observances of recently can­onized saints, additional prefaces for the Eucharis­tic prayers, and Masses and prayers for various needs and occasions; some updated and revised rubrics or instruc­tions for the celebration of the Mass. 
“After all we’d been us­ing the previous translation for approximately 40 years,” Cavender said. “Adjusting to a new translation will just take time.” 
Contact Alison Winstead at                                                awinst01@saintmarys.edu       


AP
Egyptian soldiers guard a polling station in Cairo on Monday. Many Egyptians hope their votes will begin a new democratic age for Egypt.

Election
continued from page 1

“This is the first time since the early 1950s that they’ve been able to vote. There have been elections [in the past,] but they have been predetermined.”
Asher Kaufman
professor of political science


Game
continued from page 1

The Observer u NEWS

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

ndsmcobserver.com | page 5

Carbon
continued from page 1


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer
Student body president Pat McCormick and vice president Brett Rocheleau lead a Student Senate meeting Oct. 25.

Cairo
continued from page 1


“Given the lateness of the semester and the fact that most other program deadlines are well past, the options are quite limited.”
Judy Hutchinson
assistant director of OIS

The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com

page 6

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

Our problematic tax system

Inside Column

Goodbye, traditions

Earlier in the year, I wrote about the Fair Tax. I argued that it would solve many of the problems our coun­try faces today. This article will take a step back and ask, “What are those problems?”
We all know United States of America has its fair share of ab­stract laws. The Constitution of the State of Tennessee contains a clause prohibiting people who have participated in a duel from holding public office. The General Laws of Massachusetts make it illegal for people to use stilts while working on construction. Many are viewed not only as trivial, but also humor­ous. After all, who in their right mind would want the police to spend time enforcing these laws? Though this may sound melodramatic, the federal tax code is getting to this point as well.
The first problem is its overwhelm­ing length, which serves as an enor­mous inconvenience to the average citizen. Most people do not have the time to sort through a tax code that consists of 9,097,000 words. It’s even longer than the Bible!
On top of that, people want to take initiative. According to The Tax Foundation, a majority of Americans are “willing to give up some deduc­tions to make the tax system simpler.” The problem is our government. With the exception of a few Republican candidates looking to make noise, the political world has been extremely lackadaisical when it comes to ad­dressing this issue. The tax code must be simplified.
The second problem is the partial­ity of the current tax code, which prevents people from paying their fair share to the government. Some, un­derstandably, may assume that I will spend the rest of this article ranting in favor of raising taxes on the rich. That won’t be the case. Both the up­per class and the lower class need to accept blame. We can talk about a solution later, but this much must be a given.
On one hand, Warren Buffet claims to pay fewer taxes than his secre­tary. On the other hand, more than 46 percent of households will not pay the federal income tax this year. While both of these facts should seem absurd to you, our government doesn’t think so. Democrats cannot accept that 46 percent is too high. Republicans cannot accept that the mega-rich need to pay more in taxes. In reality, both are right, but fail to realize it. The tax system simply has too many loopholes for people on every level of the socio-economic hierarchy.
The third problem is the lack of revenue provided by the current tax code, which adds weight to the already fragile public debt. Whereas the federal government is projected to spend $3.77 trillion this year, it is only expected to take in $2.15 tril­lion. That’s an astounding difference. Could you imagine if you spent $1.75 for every $1.00 received? I wouldn’t call that sound budgeting.
Even those who want to decrease spending to solve this problem know that we must first increase revenue. We need immediate action, and it is much tougher to decrease spending than it is to increase taxes.
These are just my personal opin­ions, but I hope everyone does recog­nize the one common problem with our current tax code. It’s the result of partisanship. Before we go anywhere, our government must first learn how to compromise.
Brian Kaneb is a sophomore. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Tradition should sometimes die.
If it isn’t your first year at Notre Dame, you already know that the student body gets really aggressive, really early about the Christmas season. Though I am all in favor of spreading Christ­mas cheer, I think there are a few traditions that can and should be scrapped, if only for the sake of my sanity.
Music: If I hear “All I Want For Christmas Is You” by Mariah Carey one more time in my life (which I inevitably will), I’m going to go Eb­enezer Scrooge on the girl belting it at the top of her lungs.
Rely instead this season on some classics. Give me Nat King Cole, Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra, and let Mariah save her hit for solo rendi­tions for Nick and the twins.
Movies: Though I’m as much a fan of “Love Actually” as the next Domer, you have to admit we are putting all our eggs in one basket when the only Christmas movie gatherings are organized around this rom-com. You won’t shoot your eye out if you pop in “A Christmas Story” and reawaken Red Ryder dreams or choose “White Christ­mas” for a heartwarming seasonal experience.
Theme Parties: Ladies, say no to the red or green satin dress you have hanging in your closet for your winter formal. Someone else will undoubtedly be wearing it the same night you are if you bought it within the last three months. Attire does not need to be so literal when dress­ing up around Christmas time.
And how many ugly-Christmas-sweater parties can one student at­tend? The four Good Will-salvaged, hideous sweaters (which have been worn multiple times) sitting in a box in my closet are a testament to our abuse of this theme. I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t wearing one this week­end, but I’d be open to some more intricate Christmas themes in the coming weeks.
Décor: While homemade snow­flakes and plastic candy canes are cute decoration items in theory, you can’t go overboard if you stick to classic lights. Go Green this Christ­mas by taking a page out of Dillon Hall’s decorating book. They put on an LED Christmas light show (that you can watch on YouTube) set to the tune of Christmas melodies. By switching from normal Christmas lights to LED, you can promote sus­tainability and maintain the tradi­tional look of bright white lights that put anyone in the Christmas mood.
Maybe I’m just jaded. After all, these probably were all new con­cepts to me my freshman year that I’ll reminisce about for years to come. Nonetheless I encourage you to step outside of the box this holi­day season and start a new Christ­mas tradition. Out with the Pep­permint Patties, in with whatever Christmas-colored concoction your heart fancies. Cheers!

Brian Kaneb
Guest Columnist


Marissa Frobes
Scene Writer

Editorial Cartoon



Quote of the day
“If Beethoven had been killed in a plane crash at the age of 22, it would have changed the history of music ... and of aviation.”
Tom Stoppard
British dramatist & screenwriter

Quote of the day
“The power of illustrative anecdotes often lies not in how well they present reality, but in how well they reflect the core beliefs of their audience.”
David Mikkelson
American writer

Contact Marissa Frobes at      
mfrobes@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

page 7

Letters to the Editor

The indulgence generation

A Christmas gift

“HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE BEST ROOMIE! Get ready for me to get you WASTED tonight” stated what appeared to be an average Facebook post. A lack of comments suggested that no one seemed to have found this post out of the ordinary. It’s sad to see my generation in this state, a state in which an over-indulgent amount of drinking is necessary to have fun, a state in which the night is not a success until one has “hooked up.” We be­little the consequences of our actions by choosing to overlook our better judgment.
This state applies to more than just our col­lege lives. I find the frequency at which we tell white lies is increasing. I have noticed a laxness in academic honesty in all levels of education, and one can’t help but see more examples such as avoiding some of the harder conversations with friends and family because that may be slightly unpleasant. Many, but not all, of my generation are losing sight of the importance of self-respect, honesty and health because we can convince ourselves that these actions are no big deal. Our peers are okay with it, so it can’t be that huge of a deal, right?
Newsflash: This behavior is not acceptable just because we can tell ourselves that it’s okay. This behavior does have harmful consequences that impact our safety, our relationships and yes, our future. More than likely, some of us won’t know when to say enough alcohol is enough instead of enjoying a drink with good company, while oth­ers of us will be unable to have children because some of our bodies will be ravaged beyond repair due to STDs from previous hook-ups.
A part of me believes that no one commented on that birthday post because we know better than we let on, but are too afraid to judge and tackle these social norms. I hope to live in a future where we look out for the whole well-being of ourselves and others and call out our fallacies. This piece is my first step toward getting there.
Christopher Weber
freshman
St. Edward’s Hall
Nov. 22

Gentlemen of Notre Dame, Christmas has come early for you this year.
This Friday night (Dec. 2) Lewis Hall is holding its Jingle Ball SYR, and I am offering you the chance to dance the night away with one of the hottest Chicks around, who just so hap­pens to be a dear friend of mine. To say that she is intelligent, funny and gorgeous only begins to scratch the surface. She was an extra in the movie “The Perks of Being a Wallflower” (she and Emma Watson are tight, just FYI). She can ride a unicycle like a boss. She is proud to be a Nerdfighter, a Doctor Who-vian and a hardcore Harry Potter fan. She is essentially the most awesome person you will ever meet.
So gentlemen, if you are interested in having the time of your life with this lovely lady, email me at chasset1@nd.edu. Merry Christmas.
Carolyn Hassett
sophomore
Lewis Hall
Nov. 26

Changing the world through education

Uwire

Waking from the European dream

“Why can’t we be more like Europe? It’s such a pleasant way of life,” students returning from abroad often grumble. Anything typically American, they sneer, is lowbrow. But using only personal experience as a gauge for Europe’s pre-eminence can result in being badly informed, especially amid current political, cultural and economic woes.
Apparently, understanding the centuries old, if not mil­lennia old, culture of Euro­pean countries is attainable in just a semester in Montpellier, Bologna, Toledo or Freiburg. Old World sophistication has become a souvenir you can bring back with you just as easily as your Ok­toberfest mug or actual Dijon mustard. Throw in a suddenly undying allegiance to the local soccer team and your worldliness is unquestionable. It seems like only a few months ago you were inhal­ing Jell-O shots to “Party in the U.S.A.,” and now you’re a wine connoisseur who insists Sweden was cheated in the last Eurovision.
Smugly acting as if you’re now a cultured emis­sary, fully equipped to teach deprived Yankee Doodles that our lives aren’t quite so dandy compared to a café-lounging, siesta-enjoying one, ignores a reality for the sake of a Bavarian or Gaelic castle in the sky. The whole fortified castle mentality for Europe is fitting, its aim to keep some people out.
Even though the United States is nearly 40 per­cent nonwhite, Eurofans still argue it is relatively intolerant. Meanwhile, despite most of its coun­tries hovering at only 10 to 15 percent nonwhite, Europe is considered tolerant when it comes to race.
It’s easy to be color blind to race when you rarely see other races. In France, North African black immigrants are hardly mingling with the idealized image of le français. Instead, they’re residing in low-income apartments in the Pa­risian outskirts, where unemployment is near 50 percent among Muslim youths, and crime is prevalent because of the lack of social mobility; the latest assault and murder rates are actually higher in France than in Algeria, where many of these immigrants come from. This lack of op­portunity is hard to see from the comfortable and distant vantage point enjoyed by the “traditional” French. Conveniently, the country’s constitution doesn’t permit data collection based on race, so they’re never directly confronted with hard evi­dence either.
Even across the Channel, this front of multicul­tural harmony shows itself. In 2010, officials esti­mated that 57 percent of British Pakistanis were married to their first cousin. Forget the dating pool, what about the gene one? This sort of trend only comes about through cultural isolation. I’m not sure who is doing the isolating — the Brits or the Pakistanis — and it doesn’t really matter; the point is that it exists in a country regarded for its openness. Correction: a continent regarded for its openness. The Netherlands, Spain and Italy have each experienced their share of race riots over the past couple years as well.
Ah, but even amid these socioeconomic is­sues, nouveau Europeans insist that the lifestyle is so pleasing, with their quaint bakeries and picturesque plazas. As Johnny Depp once said of Europeans, “Most important thing, though, is that people there know how to live!”
But do they? Fourteen of the top-20 countries with the highest suicide rates are in Europe, with an additional 10 countries ahead of the United States, which is 40th. Norway, dubbed “the hap­piest country” according to a recent survey, has a higher suicide rate than India, China and Venezu­ela. What’s causing these Europeans to take their own supposedly idyllic life?
Just glance at the European Union’s economic troubles and you’ll understand the source of their misery. One in five Greeks, Montenegrins and Spaniards is unemployed, and it’s even worse for our age group. Stateside, we get nervous if unem­ployment is above 8 percent. Debts continue to build up and there is popular resistance to doing anything to fix the problem. Turmoil has forced prime ministers to step down, replaced with ap­pointed stand-ins who are entrusted with acting in the best interest of the people even though they were never elected.
But the dangers go beyond who will decide whether or not Greek government employees will continue getting their 13 monthly checks per year or Denmark can continue paying students to go to their universities. As feisty youths, we unwisely herald the latest unrests in London, Paris, Madrid and Athens as inspirational, looking past the injuries, destruction and deaths caused by the demonstrators. If we’re lucky, though, we won’t have to worry about hearing these menacing tales much longer. Since the start of the anti-austerity protests in 2008, Reporters Without Borders has dropped Greece 39 spots on its press freedom index, from 31st to 70th, during which a journalist was killed at his home because of his coverage. Apparently, enlightened activists think an environment of free flowing information is an unimportant casualty.
None of this is to discourage travel or studying abroad; my passport is decorated with stamps from across the globe and each stop has been personally enriching. Rather, bear in mind that these experiences are definitively distant from reality, adventures that you embarked on to escape it for a while. Of course coming back to your reality will always pale in comparison to a romanticized aura of Europe, but choosing to remain in that fantasy isn’t cultured, it is conve­nient simplification.
This article first ran in the Nov. 21 edition of The Minnesota Daily, the daily publication serving the University of Minnesota.
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Greetings Fr. Jenkins,
I have a very interesting proposition for you. This could change the world as we know it. What if you could offer a Notre Dame education to every person on the planet? In­trigued? This would not have been possible at any time in history until this decade. I realized that our professors work very hard to give our students the best education possible. Well, this energy is expended every single year. Much of it is just repeated the next year, to a different and small group of students. What if we could capture this energy forever?
If we were to put video cameras in classrooms, we could harness this energy for the entire world to use. The young and the old alike would benefit. The poor inhabitants in Africa, Asia and South America would benefit. Every man, woman and child in the world with access to a computer would be able to bootstrap themselves out of poverty. Notre Dame could spearhead a new age of enlightenment.
The first issue that will logically arise is privacy. Teachers and students alike may resist the violation of their privacy that this brings. This is understandable. We would implement this as an opt-in program. Professors would be able to say no if they felt uncomfortable.
The University of Notre Dame seems to be the perfect place to implement this program. Every person at this great University has immeasurable character. Notre Dame is small enough to work as one team to accomplish this goal. It’s large enough to cover most all of the necessary courses. And the quality is good enough to rank us as one of the premier uni­versities in the country.
And as always, go Irish!
Nick Myers
alumnus
Class of 2011
Nov. 26

Andrew
Johnson
The Minnesota Daily

Arts @ Notre Dame

Calling all artists and audiences!
What ideas do you have for the Arts at Notre Dame? What role do they and should they play in the lives of stu­dents?
Tonight at 8 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre at De­Bartolo Performing Arts Center marks the beginning of A.N.D. — Arts at Notre Dame Student Advisory Group. Join the conversation to capitalize on the enthusiasm, energy, intelligence and talent of those among us who support the fine and performing arts at Notre Dame. This evening welcomes all undergraduate and graduate students of all majors to voice and discuss questions, concerns and af­firmations about the fine, performing and cinematic arts at Notre Dame.
Celebrate + Critique + Collaborate
Ryan Belock
fifth year
off campus
Nov. 28

The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

page 8


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL
Scene Writer
The Muppets haven’t been in theaters for 12 years, but they haven’t missed a step. Kermit, Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy and ev­eryone else brought the magic and laughter of the beloved pup­pets to life again this Thanks­giving season. The gang intro­duces some new characters in their new film, making for some all-around family fun.
The movie begins with Walter (voice of Peter Linz), a puppet from Smalltown, USA. He and his brother, Gary (Jason Segel), are best friends, but during his teenage years, Walter goes through a tough time dealing with the differences between him and his human brother and friends. Walter discovers the Muppets during this difficult period, and he becomes a huge fan.
As adults, Walter and Gary still live in Smalltown, and Wal­ter still idolizes the Muppets. The two are inseparable, and Walter even accompanies Gary and his girlfriend, Mary (Amy Adams), to Los Angeles for their 10th anniversary. While there, Walter insists on visiting the Muppet Theater, only to find it in ruin. He sneaks into Kermit the Frog’s office, where he over­hears the sale of the theater to oil magnate Tex Richman (Chris Cooper). Richman secretly plans to demolish it to drill the oil he found beneath it.
And so, Walter hatches a plan to find the Muppets, reunite them and raise the $10 million needed to keep the theater safe. His plan is not easy. The Mup­pets have spread out across the globe, from Reno to Paris, anger management to plumbing busi­nesses. In addition to the daunt­ing troubles at hand, they must convince a TV station to host their telethon and find a celeb­rity host. Their task list is long, but, in true Muppet fashion, they attack it with laughter and song.
Overall, the movie is ador­able and sure to bring laughs. The song-and-dance scenes are especially endearing. There’s nothing as inspiring as watch­ing the Muppets give their the­ater a much-needed facelift while rocking out to “We Built This City” to motivate a long-overdue cleaning of your own room. 
An original song from the movie, “Life ‘s a Happy Song,” is one of the highlights of the film. Walter and Gary perform the song at the beginning and end of the movie, delighting in the joys of having each other and the ones they love to weather life’s hardships. It’s moving, cutesy and sure to be stuck in your head for day.
Segel is great as Gary. He al­ready looks like a Muppet, mak­ing him perfect for the role, but his wide-eyed innocence also endears him to viewers as he struggles with his identity in the film. His humor isn’t dumbed down for the children in the au­dience and appeals to all ages. Adams, his romantic partner, also holds onto the innocence of Smalltown, USA without sacri­ficing her acting talent.
Unfortunately, the same can­not be said for Rashida Jones, who plays Veronica Martin, the tough TV executive who finally gives the Muppets a slot for their telethon. She tries to be ex­tremely stern and demanding, but it comes off flat — a disap­pointing performance from this actress.
But Jones aside, the movie is cute and funny. While most of the movie centers on the Mup­pets, there are memorable per­formances and cameos from big names like Jack Black, Neil Pat­rick Harris and Selena Gomez. Most of the jokes are definitely directed toward young children, but there’s enough higher hu­mor to keep people above the age of 6 laughing. 
The Muppets will give you the third-greatest gift in this world, laughter, and the film is worth it for that present.
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu

“The Muppets”

Starring: Jason Segel, Amy Adams, Rashida Jones, Jack Black



My quest for the best Thai food in South Bend is com­plete. If you’re looking for flavorful food and one of the toughest spice challenges I’ve faced, go to Cambo­dian Thai.
At first glance, Cambo­dian Thai isn’t the prettiest girl at the ball. The store­front sign is easy to over­look and the inside is more cramped than a Morrissey double. If you are planning on going there, I’d recom­mend take out, as there is barely enough room to seat 15 people in the entire res­taurant and there’s hardly ever a semi-quiet moment. Adding to the college dorm feel, the “menu” overhead of the cashier is reminiscent of an old hot dog vendor sign (be sure to look at the menu on yelp or urbanspoon.com beforehand).
What they lacked in am­biance, Cambodian Thai more than made up for it in the quality and quantity of their dishes. The first time I ordered, the waitress asked about spice level for my dish. Naturally, my bold self said, “spicy,” to which she replied, “American hot, or Thai hot?” I should have taken this as a warning. I should have kept my ego and bravado in check. Instead, I thought to myself, “Challenge Accepted,” and ordered Thai hot.
Having ordered take out, the drive back from down­town South Bend was un­bearable with the bags of Thai food taunting us, wait­ing to be eaten while smell­ing delicious. I had the Green Curry, which is a coconut milk based curry with chick­en, eggplant, bamboo shoots and plenty of spice. Even with a full serving of rice to go with it, I had to drink 8 Grab n’ Go juice boxes to handle the “Thai hot” level of spice. Still, it was worth every (mildly painful) bite and the best curry I’ve had within 50 miles of Notre Dame (yes, that includes my house and my mother’s cooking).
Other standouts on the menu included their Pan­ang and Red Curry, which each had solid strong flavors and as much kick as you ask for. The noodle dishes (i.e. Drunken Noodles, Pad Thai) while good couldn’t remotely compete with the curry options on the menu. The portion sizes are more than enough to split if you’re feeling generous, but also manageable if you have big appetite. Prices ranged from $6-$8 for curry dishes, and $5-$7 for noodles. They are very flexible with making dishes purely vegetarian and such, just adding to my ado­ration of the restaurant.
Overall, Cambodian Thai isn’t the best place to take someone out for a sit down meal, but for a relatively cheap take out option, it is my new “go to” and the best Thai food I’ve had in quite some time. Though I will recom­mend being conservative with your spice ratings — a friend of mine couldn’t handle what the storeowner labeled as mild.
Contact Ankur Chawla at                      achawla@nd.edu if you’d like to join him on his next quest for quality foreign foods in the area. Seriously, do it.
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.


Ankur Chawla
Scene Writer

Cambodian Thai

Where: 229 S Michigan
South Bend, IN 46601
Hours: 11:30 a.m.- 8:30 p.m. Monday-Saturday


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic

The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com

page 9

Tuesday, November 29, 2011


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic

The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

NFL

Sports Authority

Packers search for perfection

Bring on the hate for the Heat in new NBA season


Associated Press
There is perfection — what the Green Bay Packers are chasing.
And then there is perfec­tion — what the Indianapo­lis Colts are trying to avoid.
Neither team wants to broach the subject, al­though both are very aware it’s out there.
“I think we’re a long way from there,” Packers quar­terback Aaron Rodgers said. “If we’re fortunate enough to be still unde­feated after 14 or 15 games, maybe we can start talking about what you were talk­ing about.”
What the rest of the na­tion is talking about: 16-0. And, in the Colts’ case, 0-16.
“I think all the losses are tough. At this point, we’re just trying find a way to get a win,” Colts safety Antoine Bethea said. “ We’ve got five games left now, so we got to keep rallying and stick to­gether.”
The Packers have been sticking it to just about ev­eryone all season. They lead the NFL in points (382, 34.7 per game), and are near or at the lead in many other of­fensive categories. Rodgers is having the lights-out sort of season that Tom Brady had in leading the Patriots to their perfect regular sea­son in 2007.
Indeed, there are several similarities between these Packers and those Patriots, including a heavy concen­tration on passing, a nice mix of veterans and young­sters, and a well-estab­lished coaching staff with a strong ability to adapt dur­ing games.
But there are many dif­ferences, starting with Rodgers’ corps of receiv­ers, which is deeper than what Brady enjoyed. Sure, Brady had stars in Randy Moss and Wes Welker, but beyond that his targets usually were Donte’ Stall­worth, Jabar Gaffney, tight end Benjamin Watson and running back Kevin Faulk. Moss had a record 23 TD receptions and Welker grabbed 112 passes.
While nobody on these Packers figures to produce such numbers, Rodgers throws to as many as 10 re­ceivers in a game, and dou­ble-covering any of them tends to create mismatch­es elsewhere, particularly with TE Jermichael Fin­ley, unlike Watson a deep threat, and the emerging Jordy Nelson.
New England also had a better offensive line than the Packers can put together, and its defense was stingier than Green Bay’s.
Perhaps most notable is how the Patriots blew out teams in the first eight weeks, then were tested severely in the second half of the 2007 schedule, with four victories by four points or less. Thus far, the Packers have only two lopsided wins.
That actually might help Green Bay, toughen it for the postseason grind. Remember that the Patriots did not win the NFL title that season, los­ing to the Giants in the Super Bowl — and being held to a season-low 14 points.
To their credit, the Packers aren’t totally ignoring the per­fection chatter.
“Yeah, they don’t mind it,” coach Mike McCarthy said. “You guys don’t like my same message, but it kind of works for us. I don’t feel any pressure by it. It’s a great place to be. It’s nice to be undefeated and to be part of those conversa­tions. Anybody would like to be part of those conversations.
“But really, not to be cliche, it’s about the next game. Be­cause if you don’t get No. 12, that talk’s over. We won’t shy away from the talk if we get to that, but it’s a hypothetical situation.”
The reality is the Packers will be favored in their re­maining five games, three at home. They visit the Giants on Sunday in what some think will be their toughest test. They also get the Raiders at home, visit the Chiefs, then finish with consecutive divi­sional games at Lambeau Field against the Bears and Lions.
It is not an easy path, and Green Bay fully will deserve the 16-0 mark if it gets there.
Just as Indianapolis will de­serve matching the ignomini­ous 0-16 Detroit compiled in 2008. Yes, the Mannings, uh, Colts have a monstrous excuse for flopping: Peyton Manning’s neck surgery and subsequent sidelining, something they clearly were ill-prepared to deal with.
But 0-11? And with some losses against the dregs of the league: Cleveland, Tampa Bay, Kansas City, Jacksonville and, on Sunday, Carolina — per­haps their best opportunity to get off this schneid?
The old saw that others will step up for the team when a star goes down certainly has not applied in Indy. Instead of stepping up, just about every­one from Reggie Wayne to Dal­las Clark to Dwight Freeney have fallen down. And they haven’t been able to get up as the losses mount.
Indianapolis is near the bot­tom in scoring, various offen­sive and defensive statistics, turnover differential and, nat­urally, wins.
Curtis Painter was not ready to be a starting quarterback, bringing Kerry Collins out of a short retirement backfired, in­juries have plagued the roster, and coach Jim Caldwell and his staff have been at, well, a loss on how to fix anything.

Let’s get one thing straight here: I am a Miami Heat fan.
You’re probably thinking, “Wow, the season hasn’t even officially been OK-ed yet and we already have an uneducated, band-wagon Heat fan.” But that’s not what I’m about.
I realize LeBron James disappointed in the Finals and Chris Bosh cried in the tunnel and Dwyane Wade mocked Dirk Nowitzki and Erik Spoelstra still looks like the video coordinator he was a few years ago. But that was year one.
Now comes year two, where expectations are higher. “The Decision” has been mostly forgot­ten and the center position is still very thin.
But let’s not kid ourselves here. The Heat were so close last year in the Finals against the Mavericks. Late-game col­lapses in Games Two and Four ultimately sank the Heat, who very well could have swept the series.
So do they really need a top-flight center when Bosh, Udonis Haslem and, gasp, Joel Anthony almost won them a title? Do they really need a superb point guard when James and Wade handle the ball so frequently and when Mario Chalmers (assuming they re-sign him) knocks down the occasional three-point­er?
Maybe they do, maybe they don’t. Some questions undoubtedly remain for the defending Eastern Confer­ence champions but follow­ing a lockout that shortened the season by 16 games, every team has some flaws.
Regardless, the hat­ers will reemerge to rip Pat Riley’s organization, Spoelstra’s schemes, James’ clutch play, Bosh’s tough­ness, Wade’s foul calls and the team’s fans once Miami loses a few games.
But that is perfectly OK with me. Bring on the hate.
Bring it on, Chicago. Prove that Joakim Noah, Carlos Boozer and Luol Deng can become the players they have the potential to be. Prove that last year’s regular season was not a fluke. Prove that blowing a 12-point lead the last four min­utes of an elimination game at home was an anomaly.
Bring it on, Boston. Prove that an aging Goliath can return to form. Prove that Rajon Rondo finally has a jump-shot. Prove that your Big Three is better than Miami’s Big Three.
Bring it on, Orlando. Prove that Dwight Howard is the next great big man. Prove that you can keep him. Prove that shooting 26 threes a game is a vi­able strategy. Prove that you can hang with the big boys in the East.
Bring it on, New York. You can try to play some defense or you can wait for Chris Paul. Your choice.
Bring it on, Los Ange­les. Kobe, tell me how the sweep tastes.
Bring it on, Atlanta. Sup­posedly, they’re a division rival. I guess I’ll stop pick­ing on the perennial fifth-seed in the East.
Bring it on, Cleveland. Too soon? Well, good luck with Kyrie Irving.
Bring it on, Dallas. See you Christmas Day. You don’t have to prove any­thing.
I am about loving the Heat. I am about loving the hate.
So, here’s a warm wel­come back to the NBA. A welcome back to the Miami Heat. A welcome back to the Miami Heat hate.
I’ve missed you.
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.


Matthew
DeFranks
Associate Sports Editor

AP
Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers celebrates after throwing a touchdown pass to teammate James Jones on Nov. 24.

Regardless, the haters will reemerge to rip Pat Riley’s organization, Spoelstra’s schemes, James’ clutch play, Bosh’s toughness, Wade’s foul calls and the team’s fans once Miami loses a few games.

Classifieds

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

Personal
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 

http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu
LYRICS: It’s Beginning to Look
	A Lot Like Christmas

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas

Ev’rywhere you go;

Take a look in the five and ten glistening once again

With candy canes and silver lanes aglow.




It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas

Toys in ev’ry store

But the prettiest sight to see is the holly that will be

On your own front door.


A pair of hopalong boots and a pistol that shoots
Is the wish of Barney and Ben;

Dolls that will talk and will go for a walk
Is the hope of Janice and Jen;

And Mom and Dad can hardly wait for school to start again.

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas
Ev’rywhere you go;


There’s a tree in the Grand Hotel, one in the park as well,

The sturdy kind that doesn’t mind the snow.

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas;

Soon the bells will start,




And the thing that will make them ring is the carol that you sing

Right within your heart.





HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY SUSH!!!!!!



The Observer u SPORTS

ndsmcobserver.com | page 11

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

NCAA Basketball

Boeheim feels heat from Fine’s molestation charges 


Associated Press
SYRACUSE, N.Y.  — Syracuse men’s basketball coach Jim Boeheim ran a closed practice Monday as sex abuse victims’ advocates questioned whether he should still coach following the firing of longtime assistant Bernie Fine, who has been ac­cused of molestation by three men.
As criticism swirled about Boeheim’s initial support of Fine and his verbal attacks on the accusers, the coach kept a low profile, seeking refuge in his office on the second floor of the Carmelo K. Anthony Bas­ketball Center.
Boeheim, who had been sharply critical of the accusers, has softened his stance 10 days after an impassioned defense of Fine, who spent 35 seasons on the bench next to Boeheim and was fired Sunday.
The Rev. Robert Hoatson, president of Road to Recovery, a group that supports victims of sexual abuse, said the dismiss­al of Bernie Fine was appropri­ate but didn’t go far enough.
“I think Jim Boeheim should be fired or resign as well,” Hoatson said Monday. “These boys were members of the bas­ketball program. Jim Boeheim’s responsibility is to oversee that program, and the children were not safe on his watch.”
Two former Syracuse ball boys were the first to accuse Fine, who has called the alle­gations “patently false.” And a third man came forward last week, accusing Fine of molest­ing him nine years ago.
Bobby Davis, now 39, told ESPN that Fine molested him beginning in 1984 and that the sexual contact continued until he was around 27. A ball boy for six years, Davis told ESPN that the abuse occurred at Fine’s home, at Syracuse basketball facilities and on team road trips, including the 1987 Final Four. His stepbrother, Mike Lang, 45, who also was a ball boy, told ESPN that Fine began molesting him while he was in fifth or sixth grade.
Zach Tomaselli, 23, of Lewis­ton, Maine, said Sunday he told police that Fine molested him in 2002 in a Pittsburgh hotel room. Tomaselli, who faces sexual as­sault charges in Maine involv­ing a 14-year-old boy, said Fine touched him “multiple” times in that one incident. During a tele­phone interview with The Asso­ciated Press, he said he signed an affidavit accusing Fine fol­lowing a meeting with Syracuse police last week in Albany.
As supporters of victims of sex abuse called for Boeheim to be fired, university trustees were largely silent.
“I don’t have anything to say about this,” said trustee H. Douglas Barclay, who earned his law degree from Syracuse in 1961 and was a New York state senator for 20 years.
Reached in Naples, Fla., trustee Marvin Lender, class of 1963, referred all calls to Chan­cellor Nancy Cantor.
“It’s a policy, and I want to adhere to it,” he said.
Calls to several other trustees seeking comment were not re­turned.
The allegations against Fine surfaced a week after Penn State school trustees fired Joe Paterno in the aftermath of child sex abuse charges against former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky, who is accused in a grand jury indictment of sexually abusing eight boys over a 15-year period.
Amid that child sex-abuse scandal, Penn State’s trustees ousted Paterno and university President Graham Spanier. The trustees said Spanier and Paterno, who is not the target of any criminal investigation, failed to act after a gradu­ate assistant claimed he saw Sandusky sexually abusing a young boy in a campus shower in 2002. And two school admin­istrators were charged with not properly alerting authorities to suspected abuse and with per­jury. They maintain their inno­cence.
When the allegations against Fine first became public Nov. 17, Boeheim adamantly defend­ed his longtime assistant and attacked the accusers, saying he suspected they were trying get money.
“It is a bunch of a thousand lies that he has told,” Boeheim told ESPN, referring to Bobby Davis. “You don’t think it is a little funny that his cousin (rel­ative) is coming forward?”
Those comments prompted a swift backlash from victims’ advocates, who were outraged by Boeheim’s attitude.
Ten days later, his stance had changed considerably.
In a statement released Sun­day night after Fine’s firing, Boeheim expressed regret for his initial statements that might have been “insensitive to victims of abuse.”
“What is most important is that this matter be fully investi­gated and that anyone with in­formation be supported to come forward so that the truth can be found,” Boeheim said in a state­ment released by the school. “I deeply regret any statements I made that might have inhibited that from occurring or been in­sensitive to victims of abuse.”
That apology did not appease all his critics.
Richard Tollner, a member of the New York Coalition to Pro­tect Children, said even if the investigation finds Boeheim didn’t know anything before, during or after any abuses oc­curred, he should at least of­fer to quit. Tollner and other victims’ advocates have been sharply critical of comments Boeheim made when the scan­dal broke in which he said the accusers were lying to get mon­ey.
“We think he should offer his resignation to the Syracuse University Board and the let the board decide with a vote of con­fidence whether he should con­tinue on or not,” said Tollner.
“Mr. Boeheim has a respon­sibility,” Tollner said. “He’s a leader. Kids follow what Jim Boeheim says these days. In that light, he should have been more responsible in his re­marks.”
New York state Assembly­woman Margaret Markey, a Queens Democrat who has passed legislation increasing the age from 23 to 28 to bring a claim of sexual abuse, said if an investigation shows Boeheim was aware of the allegations against Fine and did nothing, he should be removed.
“But if he wasn’t aware of it, and there was no way of him knowing about it, that’s a dif­ferent set of circumstances,” Markey said.
On Sunday, ESPN also played an audiotape, obtained and re­corded by Davis, of an October 2002 telephone conversation between him and Fine’s wife, Laurie.
Davis told ESPN he made the recording, which also has been given to Syracuse police, with­out her knowledge because he knew he needed proof for the police to believe his accusa­tions. ESPN said it hired a voice recognition expert to verify the voice on the tape and the net­work said it was determined to be that of Laurie Fine.
During the call to the woman, Davis repeatedly asks her what she knew about the alleged mo­lestation.
“Do you think I’m the only one that he’s ever done that to?” Davis asked.
“No ... I think there might have been others but it was geared to ... there was some­thing about you,” the woman on the tape said.
On the tape, she also says she knew “everything that went on.”
“Bernie has issues, maybe that he’s not aware of, but he has issues. ... And you trusted somebody you shouldn’t have trusted ... “
Federal authorities investi­gating Fine are not hampered by a statute of limitations should they turn up evidence Fine molested Tomaselli in Pittsburgh.
Under federal law passed in 2002, prosecutions for the sexual or physical abuse or kid­napping of a child under 18 can continue until the victim turned 25. Subsequent amendments changed that to the life of the child or 10 years after the of­fense, whichever is longer.

AP
Zach Tomaselli, 23, is the third man to accuse Fine of molestation. Fine was fired from Syracuse following the allegations.



The Observer u SPORTS

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

NFL

Colts weigh option of taking quarterback in draft

Associated Press
INDIANAPOLIS — Money won’t deter the Colts from tak­ing a quarterback in April’s draft.
They just have to make sure they’ve got the right man to suc­ceed Peyton Manning.
Indianapolis vice chairman Bill Polian told radio listen­ers Monday night that the Colts could afford to keep Manning on the roster next season and still use their first-round draft pick on another franchise quarter­back without sacrificing com­petitiveness.
“The payment to the first-round draft choice is far less than it was under the old (col­lective bargaining) agreement, so you could afford that,” Polian told a caller. “I’m perfectly fine with that approach.”
It would be a pricey move.
Manning agreed to a five-year contract worth $90 million in July, a deal that includes a $28 million bonus payment due in February. Manning hasn’t played since having neck sur­gery in May and has barely prac­ticed since agreeing to the deal. If the Colts opt out of Manning’s deal, the four-time league MVP would become a free agent.
At 0-11, Indianapolis also holds a two-game lead in the chase for the No. 1 draft pick -- a slot that most analysts believe will be used on Stanford quar­terback Andrew Luck.
Last year’s top pick, Cam Newton, signed a four-year con­tract worth more than $22 mil­lion, meager compared to the six-year, $78 million deal St. Louis quarterback Sam Brad­ford signed in 2009 as the No. 1 overall pick.
While Polian reiterated his previous position that this is the time to select Manning’s succes­sor if they find the right quar­terback, Polian has declined to specifically talk about Luck, who some call the best quarter­back prospect since the Colts se­lected Manning No. 1 overall in 1998. And Polian insists he’s not even sure where Luck fits in this year’s draft yet.
“A lot of names are being ban­died about and Andrew Luck is one of them,” he said. “He can go back to school if he wants, and those guys don’t have to make that decision until Jan. 15, so they’re not even part of the equation yet. I have said public­ly on a number of occasions that if the right person was there, we would make that pick. We were prepared to do that last year and came awfully close to doing it. Who that person is, right now, I couldn’t tell you.”
Manning’s future has been clouded because of the neck in­jury.
After having the initial sur­gery to repair a damaged nerve that caused weakness in his throwing arm, Manning un­derwent another procedure, a spinal fusion, Sept. 8. He still has not been cleared to practice with his teammates, though the Colts have kept him on the ac­tive roster in hopes he can start throwing during the final month of the season.
In the meantime, fans are asking why the Colts haven’t been more forthcoming about Manning’s prognosis.
On Monday night’s radio show, one caller asked Polian why Sunday’s broadcasters seemed so pessimistic about Manning’s possible return.
“I did see something in the newspaper today that alluded to the fact that there had been pessimistic comments made by the commentators,” said Polian, who has repeatedly declined in­terview requests from local re­porters. “During our meeting, they asked me for a timeline and I told them I couldn’t give them anything anywhere near what would be accurate, that I could give them a guesstimate and I did. But I did not give them even a germ that indicated he would not play again. So I do not know what they were basing that on.”
But Polian said he still does not have a definitive timetable for Manning’s return, either.
Polian also acknowledged the team may make some lineup changes this week, partly be­cause of injuries and partly be­cause of performance.
Fans have increasingly voiced concern with quarterback Cur­tis Painter, who threw two in­terceptions in the Carolina end zone to stop potentially tying scoring drives in Sunday’s loss. Coach Jim Caldwell said ear­lier Monday he thought Painter improved throughout the game and did not indicate a move was imminent.
Polian did not say what might be different when the Colts head to New England (8-3) this week­end.
“This is a different offense and we need to recognize that’s the fact and play to our strengths,” Polian said. “We probably need to reconfigure and that’s some­thing we’ll be looking at the next couple of days.”
But the bigger question is what the Colts will do in the draft, and Polian seems certain that taking a quarterback with the No. 1 pick and pairing him with Manning is a distinct pos­sibility.
“Of course you can do that,” he said. “We’re not ready to make any decision on who we take until April.”

NFL

Questions mount for Eagles as playoff hopes continue to fade

Associated Press
PHILADELPHIA — Fans are calling for Andy Reid’s dismissal more vehemently than ever. As­sistant coaches are arguing on the sideline. A disgruntled star player isn’t giving his best effort.
There’s no saving the Phila­delphia Eagles this season.
The best team money can buy turned out to be a whole lot of wasted dollars. All those big-name acquisitions the Eagles made in the offseason couldn’t even get them back to where they were last year.
The defending NFC East cham­pions are 4-7 following a 38-20 loss to Tom Brady and the New England Patriots that wasn’t as close as the 18-point margin. The Eagles aren’t mathemati­cally eliminated from playoff contention, but it’s just a matter of time at this point.
“These last five games? I think they’ll show the charac­ter,” rookie center Jason Kelce said Monday. “Whenever you’re facing adversity, or whenever you’re put in a situation where it’s tough, you don’t know what the outcome is going to be for the year and everything else. I think true character. Every­body can play when you’re up and when things are going well, but when you’re backed into a corner, when you’re down, that’s when true character shows.”
The Eagles don’t have a lot of time to dwell on their latest loss. They have to get ready for a cross-country trip to play at Seattle (4-7) on Thursday night.
Road games will be more hospitable than playing at Lincoln Finan­cial Field, where the Eagles have lost eight of their last nine games. Things were downright ugly on Sunday after the Eagles blew an early 10-0 lead.
Fans started chanting: “Fire Andy!” in the third quarter and the always sold-out stadium was nearly empty by the end. Defen­sive line coach Jim Washburn exchanged words with offensive coordinator Marty Mornhinweg in the first half. DeSean Jack­son dropped three passes, in­cluding two that should’ve been touchdowns, and the diminutive wideout clearly shied away from contact before getting benched.
“I just have to go out there and do my job. I have a job to do, which I get paid to do, I have to go out there and give my best effort,” said Jackson, who is unhappy he didn’t get a new contract. “Regardless of what happens, the dropped balls and all, it’s not like it’s happening on purpose. Everybody has things that they have to go through in life. Right now this is what I am going through to better myself. I will be all right.”
Jackson is costing himself money with every lackluster ef­fort, missed meeting, deactiva­tion and benching. He’s one of the most exciting players in the league when he has the ball in his hands. But, but Jackson isn’t among the elite receivers and won’t be get­ting top money from Phila­delphia after his contract expires at the end of the sea­son.
The Eagles are going to need a whole lot more than another re­ceiver next year. Their biggest prob­lems are on defense. Reid’s decision to switch Juan Castillo from his longtime po­sition as offensive line coach to defensive coordinator was highly questioned at the time. It looks like an egregious mistake with each passing game.
Castillo had no answers for Brady, who had his way with Philadelphia’s defense. Brady picks opponents apart often, so that’s no surprise. But he did it with such ease and hardly broke a sweat against the Eagles. The defense was completely over­matched and seemed totally clueless. Several offsides penal­ties and having 12 men on the field are inexcusable. There ap­peared to be mass confusion at times and players didn’t know who was supposed to be on the field.
“We have a lot of great play­ers on this team and it’s hard to see us lose,” defensive end Trent Cole said. “We know what kind of talent we have, so we have to pull together. It’s hard. We’re not going to bow our heads, we’re going to keep them up and keep moving forward, go make plays and go win ball games.”
It’s uncertain whether Vince Young or Michael Vick will start against the Seahawks. Young played the last two games be­cause Vick has broken ribs. Young threw for a career-best 400 yards against the Patriots, though his numbers were in­flated a bit because of the score.



AP
Eagles Coach Andy Reid talks with quarterback Vince Young during the team’s 38-20 loss to the Patriots on Sunday.

“We know what kind of talent we have, so we have to pull together. It’s hard. We’re not going to bow our heads, we’re going to keep them up and keep moving forward, go make plays and go win ball games.”
Trent Cole
Eagles defensive end

The Observer u SPORTS

ndsmcobserver.com | page 13

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

Dealy
continued from page 16


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer
Irish Junior middle blocker Hilary Eppink strikes the ball in a 3-1 victory over Big East opponent Seton Hall on Nov. 5. Following a 3-0 loss to Dayton on Friday, Notre Dame’s season ended when the team failed to qualify for the NCAA Tournament.

SMC Basketball

Belles come up short in both games of holiday tournament 

By NICK BOYLE
Sports Writer
After two close contests, the Belles emerged without a victory in the Ohio Northern Thanksgiving Classic in Ada, Ohio. They fell to Ohio Northern 68-64 Saturday and to Otter­bein 74-65 Sunday.
In Saturday’s contest, Ohio Northern (5-1) jumped out to an early 10-point lead only six minutes into the game. The Belles (2-4) battled back strong and scored on consecutive pos­sessions to make it a one-point game at the half. 
In a back-and-forth second half, the Polar Bears took their largest lead of the game on a jump shot by sophomore for­ward Cenzie Yoder with 6:41 remaining, giving the tourna­ment hosts a 62-47 lead. 
Saint Mary’s did their best to fight back and went on a 17-4 run capped by senior guard Patsy Mahoney’s three-pointer with 35 seconds remaining on the clock to pull the Belles four points from the lead. Mahoney put up 20 points and six assists. 
Unfortunately for the Belles, time ran out on their comeback for a four-point Ohio Northern victory.
Along with Mahoney, The Belles senior class led scoring. Senior forwards Kelley Murphy and Jessica Centa brought in 16 points and 10 points, respec­tively. Classmate and starting guard Maggie Ronan scored 14 points against the Polar Bears. 
“As a team we come into every game expect­ing to win, so the losses this past weekend were tough,” Mahoney said. “We know we are play­ing some very tough competi­tion though, so we are learning from what we have done thus far and making ourselves bet­ter from it.”
Saint Mary’s gained an early lead against Otterbein (4-0) on Sunday, go­ing up 23-13 with seven minutes left in the half on a layup from Murphy who scored 14 points and had 12 rebounds before the clock ran out. The Car­dinals fought back and closed the half on an 11-4 run, cutting the Belles’ lead to two.
The second half was tightly contested as the lead change four times between the teams. The Cardinals took the lead for good with 7:20 left in the game when they went up 56-55 on a field goal from Otterbein ju­nior forward Rachel Snedegar. Otterbein closed the game on a 19-10 run, and Saint Mary’s went home without a win. 
Along with Murphy’s double-double, Ronan matched Ma­honey’s points with 18 against the Cardinals. 
“Moving into conference play we know what we need to do to win games and we are working hard to fix our problems,” Ma­honey said. “We just have to ex­ecute on both ends of the floor to get the results we know we can.”
Saint Mary’s next opens up conference play against Trine on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at home. 
Contact Nick Boyle at 	nboyle1@nd.edu

“Moving into conference play we know what we need to do to win games and we are working hard to fix our problems ... We just have to execute on both ends of the floor to get the results we know we can.”
Patsy Mahoney
senior guard



The Observer u SPORTS

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

Jackson
continued from page 16


“We took some unnecessary penalties, but they wouldn’t have been penalties on Friday. We need to be able to adjust to that.”
Jeff Jackson
Irish coach


KARLA MORENO/The Observer
Irish sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich scores from under the net during Notre Dame’s 93-69 win over Delaware State on Nov. 18.

Bulldogs
continued from page 16

“There was no soreness [or past knee issues]. I couldn’t have seen it coming ... We were just doing some two-on-two drills, and I went to drive down the lane. I planted to go up for a layup and [the knee] just gave out on me and I knew it wasn’t supposed to do that.”
Tim Abromaitis
Irish fifth year forward


Diggins
continued from page 16


The Observer u TODAY

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

ndsmcobserver.com | page 15

Crossword

Horoscope

WILL SHORTZ

EUGENIA LAST



ExpND

Jumble

JON REPINE

HENRY ARNOLD
MIKE ARGIRION



The London Express

ALEX GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS


Make checks payable to	The Observer
and mail to:	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556
		
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year
		
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester
		Name ____________________________________________________
		Address __________________________________________________
		City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses.  Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com

page 16

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

ND Volleyball

ND Women’s Basketball

Last second magic

Campaign concludes with loss 


By MOLLY SAMMON
Sports Writer
With less than a second left, Notre Dame senior guard Nata­lie Novosel scored the game-winning basket from the free-throw line, and the Irish beat Duke 56-54 in the Champion­ship game of the Junkanoo Jam in the Bahamas on Saturday night. 
“It was hard earned,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (5-1) made it to the final round of the Thanksgiving weekend tour­nament at St. George’s High School in Freeport, Bahamas after beating USC 80-58 on Fri­day.
The No. 7 Blue Devils carried a 36-20 lead at halftime, and most of the Irish high scorers struggled putting up the points they had earlier in the season.
“We were having a really bad day shooting the ball,” McGraw said. “We were taking bad shots. Defensively we weren’t on our game. We just really played poorly at both ends. We were lucky to only be down 16 [points] at halftime.”
In the first 20 minutes of play, Novosel only shot one for 10, far behind what her season average of just over 17 points per game suggested she should have by that point. 
But Novosel made up for lost time in the second half. She scored 15 total points, includ­ing the game-saving basket. 
Junior guard Skylar Diggins led team scoring with 19 points, and the Irish went on a 21-3 run at the start of the second half as Duke shot 19 percent from the field in the second half. 
“It was a role reversal in the second half,” McGraw said. “The defense was the reason that we won the game. [Senior guard] Fraderica Miller, [grad­uate student guard] Brittany Mallory, all of them played well defensively. I think it was our defense. It was a good contri­bution from everybody, a good contribution in that game.”
Against the Trojans on Fri­day, Diggins scored 22 points and brought in five steals for the Irish. 
“[Diggins] had a fantastic two-day tournament at both ends of the floor. She scored, she passed, and she didn’t turn the ball over,” McGraw said. “She managed the game. She did everything that she could do to help us win. I thought she had one of the best games of the season for her. I thought she re­ally elevated her game and played well.”
Notre Dame held the Trojans (2-3) to just one field goal in the last 7:34 of the first half, led the game by 12 points at the half and won their eighth of 10 total meetings between the Irish and Trojans. 
USC continued to the conso­lation game, and beat Gardner-Webb 82-41 on Saturday before the championship game. 
Next, the Irish play Pennsyl­vania at home Friday. Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m.  
Contact Molly Sammon at 		msammon@nd.edu

By CONOR KELLY
Sports Writer
Every year Irish coach Debbie Brown schedules a non-conference match at the end of the Big East champi­onship for a little competi­tive practice before tour­nament time. But without a spot in the tournament this year, a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Dayton on Friday was all the Irish had to show for the extra game.
After a marathon first set that went 60 points, the Irish (17-13) could not derail the NCAA-bound Flyers (25-6), falling 3-0 (31-29, 25-20, 25-19).
“I think we approached this game differently than we often do,” Irish senior captain Kristen Dealy said. “There’s a little bit less pressure and more of an emphasis on enjoying the game with your teammates because we knew this could easily be our last match.”
Indeed, it would be the last match for the Irish. When the NCAA selected the 64-team field for the NCAA tournament Sunday, the Irish were on the outside look­ing in. After falling to Cincin­nati in the Big East title game a week Nov. 20, the Irish held on to the slim hope that they would be selected for the NCAA tour­nament after a strong showing in the conference tournament, despite a mediocre regular season.
Against the Flyers, Notre Dame held set-point numerous times in the first set yet were unable to come up with the clutch point when it mattered. 
“We were right on the cusp there a couple times,” Dealy said. “It’s fun to go back and forth like that, but that’s the way things have been for a lot of this year.”
In her final match for Notre Dame, Dealy led the team with 14 kills on the day, followed by junior Hilary Eppink with eight and sophomore Andrea McHugh with seven. Senior Frenchy Silva totaled 15 digs in the defensive effort.
The match was the last in the careers of Dealy and Silva, co-captains and the lone two se­niors on the young team.
“We knew that this could very well be the last match that we would play in our careers,” Dealy said. “So it was nice to be able to play one more time. Usually Coach Brown sched­ules these games as tune-ups for the NCAA tournament. We were so close to getting there against Cincinnati.”
A win against the Bearcats in the Big East final would have secured an NCAA berth for the Irish who must now turn to next season as the team re­turns 12 of 14 players in 2012.
Contact Conor Kelly at 		ckelly17@nd.edu

THOMAS LA/The Observer
Junior guard Skylar Diggins lines up a jump shot for the Irish during the team’s 98-43 win over Hartford on Nov. 17 at the Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame beat Duke 56-54 Saturday to win the Junkanoo Jam.

see DIGGINS/page 14

see DEALY/page 13

Hockey

Men’s Basketball

Irish win in blowout, Abromaitis out for season

Weekend split halts win streak


By JACK HEFFERON
Sports Writer
Riding a 10-game un­beaten streak, No. 3/2 Notre Dame took the long ride up to No. 14/13 Lake Superior St. over the weekend for a pair of key conference games. The team played some of its best hockey of the season during Friday night’s 4-1 win, but the Irish were left with a sour taste in their mouths after a 5-2 loss Saturday.
Friday’s action got off to an exciting start, as the Irish (10-3-3, 7-2-3 CCHA) jumped out to a 1-0 lead just three minutes into the game off a goal from junior left winger Nick Larson. The Lakers (10-4-2, 6-3-1-1) evened the score just 20 seconds later, but the frenetic pace was calmed by Irish junior goal­tender Mike Johnson, whose 29 saves kept the Lakers off the scoreboard for the rest of the night.
The game-winning goal came from the Irish pow­erplay early in the second period. Freshman right winger Austin Wuthrich found freshman defense­man Robbie Russo in the slot, and Russo finished the play with a rocket into the back of the net for his third goal of the season. All three of Russo’s goals have come from the point on the powerplay, which has made the young freshman yet another weapon in Irish coach Jeff Jackson’s arsenal.
“We expected Robbie to come in and be an impact player for us as a freshman,” Jackson said. “Part of the reason we re­cruited him was because of his poise. Now we finally have a guy out there that not only can make a play with the puck, but can also shoot the puck, and that’s a key to a good power­play. I wish he’d shoot the puck more frequently sometimes. It definitely gives our power play a threat from the top.”
Notre Dame put the game on ice with goals from sophomore forwards Bryan Rust and T.J. Tynan, and it looked to carry the momentum from 11 straight unbeaten decisions into Saturday’s matchup.
However, things were stacked against the Irish before the game start­ed Saturday, as Jackson benched three regular for­wards. Sophomores Michael Voran and David Gerths were sidelined for missing a team meeting, and Larson was punished for taking a misconduct penalty the night before.
Things didn’t go much better after the drop of the puck, as sophomore defen­seman Steven Johns took a penalty just 10 seconds into the game. That led to the first of three Lakers power­play goals on the night.
“It was doomed from the start of the day,” Jack­son said. “The officiating from one night to the next was night and day, for both teams. I don’t think we were prepared for the change in philosophy going from one night to the next. We took some unnecessary penal­ties, but they wouldn’t have been penalties on Friday. We need to be able to adjust to that.”
Despite the loss, one bright spot for the Irish was Rust, who scored in the first period to run his streak of goal-scoring games to four. And while the Irish may have been excused for run­ning out of steam in their fourth game of the week, Rust said fatigue was not the issue on Saturday.
“I wouldn’t say we got tired,” Rust said. “Yeah, it’s been a long stretch, but we just had a bad game. We didn’t make the smart plays like we should have, we didn’t com­pete as hard as we should have, but I have no con­cerns that we won’t be right back where we should be this Friday night.”
Friday’s upcoming matchup is against future conference opponent Northeastern, a team that will force the Irish to play their best hockey if they want to start another winning streak.
“They’re a typical Hockey East team with the up-tempo style and good forwards, and real good goaltender,” Jackson said. “They’re going to be a pretty good challenge for us. I expect it to be two good hockey games.”
Contact Jack Hefferon at 		whefferon@nd.edu

By ANDREW GASTELUM
Sports Writer
Notre Dame woke up from its worst nightmare — losing fifth-year senior forward Tim Abro­maitis for the season — with a 84-59 blowout victory over Bry­ant on Sunday afternoon at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Abromaitis tore his ACL at practice Friday morning, leav­ing a huge hole in the Irish frontcourt, but Notre Dame (5-2) responded with five players in double figures, led by sophomore guard Eric Atkins’ 18 points and nine assists. 
“With the loss of [Abromai­tis], we were going to need guys to step up, and I am ready to be one of those guys,” sophomore guard Jerian Grant said. “It was definitely a big blow knowing he wasn’t going to be out there, but we all came together as the next man up.”
Coming off a career high 20-point performance in Notre Dame’s 61-57 loss to Georgia in the CBE Classic Nov. 22, Grant posted his first career double-double with 12 points and 11 as­sists, just three assists shy of a triple-double. 
After trading buckets with the Bulldogs (1-5) to start the game, the Irish took the lead for good, sparked by the play of junior guard Joey Brooks.
Brooks recorded five-straight points with 10:43 left in the first half, bringing the Irish run to 20-5 and forcing a timeout from the Bulldog bench.
“[Brooks] got his shots as the fourth or fifth option, and we have got to let that happen,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “His frame of mind is good because we got him defending. He bat­tled [defensively], and when he throws himself in on that end of the floor his offense is usually better.”
Notre Dame took a 19-point lead into halftime following a hustle play from Brooks, who put back a missed layup by Atkins after fighting for a rebound over two Bryant def`enders. Brooks was 4-for-5 from the field in the first half after only logging three against Georgia.
Down by 24 with 11:27 left in the second half, the Bulldogs cut the Notre Dame lead to 12 on a 3-pointer from sophomore guard Corey Maynard, who fin­ished with 11 points. But the 15-3 Bry­ant run was countered by a 12-2 Irish run that put Notre Dame back up by 24 with eight minutes to play. 
Sophomore forward Alex Francis led the way for the Bulldogs — who have yet to play a home game — with 22 points on 10-for-22 shooting. 
The Irish relied on 27 bench points and 24 assists to atone for the loss of Abromaitis, who will have surgery this Friday.
In his first address to the me­dia since the injury, Abromaitis said the injury came as a shock during routine practice drills.
“There was no soreness [or past knee issues]. I couldn’t have seen it coming,” he said. “We were just doing some two-on-two drills, and I went to drive down the lane. I planted to go up for a layup and [the knee] just gave out on me and I knew it wasn’t supposed to do that.” 
But the fifth-year senior didn’t rule out returning for a sixth-year, expressing his hope to con­tinue playing basketball.
“I haven’t thought too deeply about future plans. The sixth-year conversation will definitely come up and if it is a possibility I will look into it,” Abromaitis said. “Hopefully my basketball career is not over. [Playing] is always in the back of my mind.”
Notre Dame will next head to Spokane, Wash. on Wednesday to play Gonzaga.
Contact Andrew Gastelum at 	agastel1@nd.edu

JULIE HERDER/The Observer
Irish sophomore winger Michael Voran corrals the puck in a 3-2 victory over Western Michigan at the Compton Family Ice Arena on Nov. 15.

see JACKSON/page 14

see BULLDOGS/page 14



