the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Forum focuses on education problems 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Four national leaders in edu­cation urged the Notre Dame community to use its resources to help improve the American school system at a panel titled, “The System: Opportunity, Crisis and Obligation in K-12 Education,” held at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Wednesday. 
The panel marked the begin­ning of the 2011-2012 Notre Dame Forum. The Forum will focus on the challenges K-12 education faces in the United States. 
Panelists Michelle Rhee, Howard Fuller, Sara Martinez Tucker and John Dilulio dis­cussed the successes and fail­ures of the current system. 
“We’re at a specific moment in time right now [when] there’s more attention being paid to public education reform, and we have the opportunity to radically transform it,” Rhee said. “If we can’t take advantage of this opportunity, then I don’t know if another one like this is ever going to come up.” 
Fuller said the American ideal of universal education was important but policymakers still need to do what is necessary to make that ideal a reality. 

“The education agenda in our country has been driven by spe­cial interests,” Rhee said. “The problem in that dynamic is that you don’t have a national, organ­ized interest group with the same heft as the teacher’s union.” 
Rhee said the lack of a power­ful group looking out for the chil­dren in the system was a prob­lem. 
“If there is not an equal or 


Lula’s owner discusses café’s closing, future 


By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
After 16 years as a South Bend staple, Lula’s Café closed in the fall much to the lament of stu­dents and town residents alike. The local hotspot was forced to shut down after its lease was not renewed for unknown reasons, Lula’s owner Steve Egan said. 
The ownership still hopes the restaurant can make a comeback, though. 
“I want Lula’s to exist in the community more than anyone does,” Egan said. “I’m willing and open to listening to creative solu­tions on how that might happen.” 
While Egan considered multiple opportunities to reopen at other 
see LULA’S/page 5 

greater force [than the teacher’s union] at the table that’s saying what is at the best interest of the children, then you’re going to end up with a landscape of laws and policies that are skewed, and not towards children,” she said. 
Dilulio identified school vio­lence and drop-out rates as two major issues facing American education. He said school vio­lence is under-reported, where­as graduation rates are over-reported. 
Fuller said American students 
are performing significantly 
worse in the classroom than 
their foreign peers are. 
American students, however, 
have high intellectual confidence 
compared with students in other 
nations. 
Fuller said talking about the 
see SYSTEM/page 5 


By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Despite her profession’s affinity for hair, Angie Paris, a hairdresser at University Hair Stylists, decided to shave her head today for The Bald & the Beautiful: ND Fights Cancer. 
“I feel like God planted it in my heart and I started to think about it,” Paris said. “I asked myself ‘Are you sure about this?’ and I prayed about it, and I just feel like it’s some­thing I should do.” 
The Bald & the Beautiful — sponsored by the Class of 2012, student government, Circle K and Pangborn, Duncan and Badin Halls — is Notre Dame’s third annual head-shaving event to raise money for St. Baldrick’s Foundation, a charity commit­ted to cancer research fund­ing. The event kicked off Wednesday and will continue through Friday. 
Former Hall President’s Council co-chair Mike Oliver said 800 people participated in last year’s event, which 


Holy Half runners fight heat 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Completing the Holy Half was on senior Kaitie McCabe’s college bucket list, but sun and 80 degree temperatures Sunday stood in her way as she attempted to complete the race. 
McCabe trained for the 13.1­mile race in the weeks leading up to the Half, yet she only completed a portion of the race. 
“I went out as fast as I had planned and by mile four I was really struggling,” she said. “I ended up completing the ‘Holy Quarter’ but didn’t feel like I could finish the entire half marathon. It was very disappointing.” 
Race organizer Gabby Tate described the day as a “perfect storm” of unexpected conditions. 
“Most people were not accus­tomed to running on an 80 degree weather day,” she said. 
McCabe was not the only runner to feel the effects of Sunday’s heat. 
“Seven students were transport­ed to Memorial Hospital for heat 
see HALF/page 4 




Students go bald for charity 

raised over $41,500. This year, the goal is set at $60,000. 
Student body president emeritus Catherine Soler said the committee aimed to incor­porate a variety of different organizations into this year’s event, including class councils, residence halls and athletic teams. 
“I think internally we’ve got­ten a lot more people involved and that’s been great to spread it through the dorms and through campus,” she 
see BALDRICK’S/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Faculty recognized for achievement page 3  Viewpoint page 8 The best and worst of sequels page 10  Sean Rogers lacrosse feature 20 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, April 14, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR FAVORITE NINTENDO 64 GAME?
THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
John Cameron Allan Joseph Caitlin Housley Megan Finneran Christian Myers Joseph Monardo 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 

Ohio police chief cancels over 900 speeding tickets 
HAMILTON, Ohio — Motorists are off the hook for more than 900 speeding tickets automatically issued by a mobile police camera in southwest Ohio. 
The camera had been sta­tioned in a park in Hamilton on April 2 at the same time a youth soccer tournament, the Mid-American Soccer Classic, was being held. 
Police Chief Neil Ferdelman tells The JournalNews of Hamilton that he canceled the tickets because of the tournament, which he says drew many out-of-towners who were unaware the camera was in use. 
At $95 each, the 900 tick­ets would have totaled more 
Yiting Zheng  Ryan Turner  Carolyn Christian  Karl Celeste  Andrew Bell  
sophomore  sophomore  junior  sophomore  junior  
McGlinn  Duncan  Lewis  Duncan  Knott  

“Umm ... even  “Mario Kart 64.  “Super Smash  “007  “Mario Kart 64  
though I’m  I like getting  Bros because I  Goldeneye. That  by far. I can’t  
Asian, I never  seizures on  actually get to  pretty much  even imagine  
played video  Rainbow Road.”  beat my brother  was my life  what my GPA  
games.”  up.”  when I was  would be  
younger.”  without that in  

my life.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

than $86,000. The chief says 70 of the tickets were mailed. Those motorists have been sent letters telling them: never mind. 
Puppets pilferred in Hawaii, owners desperate­ly search 
HONOLULU — Thieves broke into a performing arts organization’s van and stole three puppets worth $10,000, cutting the compa­ny’s cast in half in the middle of a popular tour and prompting workers to franti­cally dig through trash bins in search of the missing char­acters. 
Maui Academy of Performing Arts officials said the cloth-covered foam pup­pets were created in 2009 by puppeteer Frank Kane, who once worked for Jim Henson and the Muppets, and stolen Saturday night in Kahului. The group made a plea for the public’s help in locating the missing puppets as work­ers searched roads and trash bins for any sign of them. 
“They’re really not of any value to whoever took them, but they’re of great value to us,” executive and artistic director David Johnston said Monday. “We scoured the area looking for them.” 
The missing puppets’ char­acters were re-cast by recon­figuring facial features on other puppets. 
“We did some emergency plastic surgery,” said produc­tion manager Mark Collmer. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A hospitality lunch benefit-ting La Casa de Amistad, which operates a youth and community center on the west side of South Bend, will be held in the Geddes Hall coffee house from 11:45 to 
1:30 p.m. today.A $5 dona­tion is requested. 
Today from 3 to 9:30 p.m. in the monogram room of the Joyce Athletic Center stu­dents can participate in the IBM Smarter Planet University Tour. Activities include a scavenger hunt, an IBM skills zone and a Future Leaders session. Participation is free. 
In room 129 of DeBartolo Hall, Harry F. Ridgway will give a seminar titled “The Quest for Pure Water ... From Atoms to Oceans” from 
3:30 to 4:30 p.m. tonight. 
The lecture “Voting in Agreeable Societies” will be given by Francis Su of Harvey Mudd College in room 117 of Hayes-Healy Hall. The lec­ture will be from 5:30 to 6:30 and refreshments will be provided afterward. 
Guy Kawasaki will present an Entrepreneur Week semi­nar in the Jordan auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business . The seminar is from 7:15 to 8:15 p.m. tonight. 
The Black Students Association is hosting its annual film festival in LaFortune tonight. The film “Coming to America” will be shown from 9 to 11:30 p.m. and refreshments will be provided. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY saturday sunday monday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



63 42 HIGH 5854 5457
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


59 39 LOW 4936 4447 






Thursday, April 14, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Faculty recognized for service to undergrads 
Observer Staff Report 
Twenty University faculty members received the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Awards for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching and three members of the faculty were awarded with Dockweiler Awards for Excellence in 
Undergraduate  Advising,  
according  to  a  Wednesday  
press release.  

Peer and student nominations determined the recipients, and the Office of the Provost pre­sented the awards. 
The winners of the Dockweiler Award are Sam Gaglio, assistant dean and con­current instructor in the Mendoza College of Business; Kathleen Kolberg, professional specialist in the Department of Preprofessional Studies; and Anre Venter, professional spe­cialist and director of under­graduate studies in the Department of Psychology. 
The Joyce teaching award honored 20 members of the faculty who had a profound influence on undergraduate students through sustained exemplary teaching, the release stated. 
The Joyce winners are: Joseph Buttigieg, Department of English; Xavier Creary, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry; Steve Fallon, Program of Liberal Studies; Agustin Fuentes, Department of Anthropology; Daniel Graff, Department of History; Fr. Dan Groody, Department of Theology; Yih-Fang Huang, Department of Electrical Engineering; Anthony Hyder, Department of Physics; Charles Kulpa, Department of Biological Sciences; William Leahy, Department of Economics and Econometrics; Tara MacLeod, Department of Irish Language and Literature; Kerry Meyers, College of Engineering; Ken Milani, Department of Accountancy; Brian O’Conchubhair, Department of Irish Language and Literature; Jeffrey Peng, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry; Anne Pilkington, Department of Mathematics; Georgine Resick, Department of Music; Deborah Rotman, Department of Anthropology; Maria Tomasula, Department of Art, Art History and Design; and Xiaoshan Yang, Department of East Asian Languages and Literatures. 
A University press release stated the teaching award is supported by a gift from the late Father Joyce’s classmates in the Class of 1937. The Dockweiler Charitable Foundation honored advisors and student mentors for the past four years. 
Faculty committees in each of the seven disciplinary areas evaluate the peer and student nominations to select the win­ners. 
ST DENT SENATE 



Members offer feedback 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate discussed the effectiveness of the First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership (FUEL) program and the implementation of the Mendoza College of Business’s major-eligibility algorithm at its Wednesday meeting. 
FUEL began two years ago as FLEX, the Freshmen Leadership Experience, a program for fresh­men interested in getting involved in student government. Student body vice president Brett Rocheleau said the program transformed into FUEL this year. 
“This year it was a way for first year students to be a part of the policy-making side of student government,” he said. “It was the first year FUEL was truly a part of student government in this manner.” 
FUEL co-director Ricky Bevington said the program places the freshman participants into the various Senate commit­tees where they function as regu­lar members. 
Bevington asked the group how they felt the program could better serve student government and better inform future student lead­ers. 
“First, as the policy-making branch of student government, we want to hear how FUEL can best help you,” he said. “And sec­ond, a lot of you are new faces. We want to hear what you wish you knew about student govern­ment before you came to Senate.” 
Badin senator Jen Simpson suggested the directors better advertise FUEL in the future. 
“A lot of freshmen didn’t know about it then, but know about it now and would have liked to par­ticipate,” she said. 
Cavanaugh senator Gaby Nunez recalled seeing FUEL at Student Activities Night but said she didn’t know exactly what it entailed. 
“I thought it was more just exposure to student government, I didn’t know it was actual policy­making,” she said. “It should be advertised as such, like you’re actually involved in making things happen.” 
Turning from student govern­ment to academics, the group debated whether students should attempt to fight Mendoza’s use of algorithms for determining which majors students can enter. Rocheleau said that while the algorithms have been in place for three years, one was used for the first time this year for the finance major. 
Rocheleau said 290 students applied to the Finance major pro­gram, which was capped at 250 students. The remaining 40 stu­dents were either placed in their second choice major or market­ing, the only business major with space left. 
The algorithm that decided which students were able to declare finance was based off five criteria: the student’s current GPA, grade in Calculus I, ACT/SAT score, current number of credits from Mendoza and cur­rent number of total credits at the University. 
“When we came to Notre Dame the admissions office told us we could take any major we wanted at ND and now we can’t,” aca­demic affairs chair Neal Ravindra said. “It’s not the University’s fault but it’s still a fact.” 
Some senators expressed con­cern at the fairness of using so few factors in the algorithm. Campus technology chair Yiting Zheng said hard working and intelligent students can end up with a poor GPA under certain circumstances. 
“At least half our engineering class disappears,” Zheng said. “Beginning freshman year engi­neering is really tough and your GPA is shot. And then you realize you want to be a business student and you’re at a disadvantage.” 
Regardless of whether an attempt is made to reverse the algorithm policy, Morrissey sena­tor Calvin Belden said the University should inform incom­ing students of the caveat on the presumed freedom to choose a major at Notre Dame. 
“It would be a really disap­pointing shock if you come here and you were planning on being a finance major and then could-n’t,” Belden said. 

Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 14, 2011 


Half 
continued from page 1 
exhaustion,” University spokesman Dennis Brown said. “About 20 others were treated for heat-related problems.” 
Two sports medicine doctors, a nurse, 14 First Aid volunteers and a mobile unit from the South Bend Medical Foundation staffed the event, Brown said. Two golf carts with First Aid supplies followed the race. 
“A small amount of the medical costs — medicine and some sup­plies — are billed to the event,” Brown said. “Most costs are assumed by the First Aid Services Team budget.” 
The First Aid Services Team is a student volunteer organization on campus. 
Freshman Allie Kuhl was rushed to the hospital to replenish her flu­ids after she was severely dehy­drated and fainted during the race. 
“I sat down to rest around the 10th mile because I was struggling to just keep walking and I was not seeing clearly,” she said. “I intend­ed to keep racing after I rested, but when I started walking again I ended up collapsing.” 
Volunteers responded immedi­ately after Kuhl collapsed. 
“The volunteers and medical responders were very efficient, and I greatly appreciate their help,” she said. “I felt that the vol­unteers were very aware that run­ners may be struggling with the heat, and they seemed to be keep­ing an eye out for anyone who may have needed help.” 
Kuhl said she left the hospital around 3 p.m. Sunday afternoon, and besides minimal soreness, she is feeling well. 
“In the future, if I am running in the heat and feel the way I did before I had to quit running on Sunday, I will know that I need to stop and take a break rather than try to push through it,” she said. “This will not prevent me from running in future, but I hope it will make me a smarter and safer run­ner because I will be more aware of my physical limits and how to deal with them.” 
Around the fourth mile-marker, freshman Billy Raseman said he began to feel the effects of dehy­dration in the heat when he stopped sweating and his back started tingling. 
“Just before the 10th mile I slowed to a walk once I got the water station,” he said. “I could tell something was wrong because I felt dizzy and could not even walk in a straight line. The First Aid responded immediately — they gave me ice and water and told me to lie down on a nearby bench.” 
Raseman said he began training over winter break. 
“I knew it was going to be hot but I have run in similar weather before,” Raseman said. “I think the fact that all my train­ing had been in much cooler weather made the heat worse than it would have been if I had been more acclimated to it.” 
For his next race, Raseman said he will learn from his experience at the Holy Half. 
“I need to make sure I hydrate better for future races,” he said. “Also, I will make certain not to underestimate how the weather can affect the way I race. It is obvious I did not take the change of temperature into account as much as I should have and I will definitely plan better in the future.” 
Freshman Jake Flynt ran cross-country in high school, but the Holy Half was his first attempt at a half marathon. 
“I reached a point between 10.5 and 11 miles where my legs felt like they were simply out of my control,” he said. “Even before that point I started desperately looking forward to each water stop. When I realized how dehy­drated I was and how uncontrol­lable my form was becoming, I stopped at the nearest volunteer. I asked her to call my older brother who was waiting for me at the fin­ish line. I told her I didn’t think I needed any medical help and that water and rest would be enough, and she offered me her water bot­tle.” 
Flynt said he wished water stops along the race route were more frequent. 
“After dropping it several times due to my dizziness, I drank what I could of the volunteer’s water bot­tle and then what was left of my brother’s when he reached me,” he said. “I had four more bottles of water and some fruit upon reach­ing the finish line.” 
Flynt said his entire body was sore Monday after the race. 
“I think I will never again under­estimate the need to hydrate,” Flynt said. “The wisdom of all of my past coaches keeps ringing in my ears and what seems to ring loudest is, ‘You need to hydrate the entire week leading up to the race.’ I would like to run another half marathon at the end of the summer. I’ll not only have more time to train, I’ll have training weather more indicative of that on race day.” 
While runners recover from the Holy Half, McCabe said she is already anticipating her next race. 
“I’m considering this race a learning opportunity,” she said. “I’ve already signed up for another half marathon this summer … [and] I plan to come back after graduation next year and finish the Holy Half. Hopefully it doesn’t snow.” 
Tate and fellow organizer Sean Kickham said heat was not the only problem for runners. Runners wore chip timers to record their times, but Tate said the times were lost when the chip timer trans­ferred the data to the computer system. 
“The chip timing did not work at all,” she said. “We only have times for people’s splits, the first half of the race.” 
This year was the first where the race ever ran into problems with the chip timers, Tate said. 
“This is also the first year where the course for the race was certi­fied as a half-marathon,” Kickham said. 
Many runners hoped to use their times from the Holy Half to qualify for other races, Kickham said, but unfortunately cannot do so. 
“It’s really upsetting,” Tate said. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle@nd.edu 





SMC seniors exhibit artwork 


By ALYSSA PEREZ 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s senior art stu­dents displayed their final exhibits at the College’s Moreau Art Center beginning last Friday. 
The projects were the culmi­nation of the seniors’ final year of work. 
Senior Mary Castle, an art major and music minor, dis­played 14 canvases inspired by the works of French composer Charles Camille Saint-Saens’ “Le Carnaval des Animaux.” 
“I chose this theme in order to use a lot of different colors and techniques, which incorporate both my art major and music minor,” Castle said. 
Castle accompanied her visual art with a piano performance during the exhibition. She said she hopes others see the paral­lels between art and music in her work. 
Castle add the she would like to encourage a desire to listen to her work, “The Carnival of the Animals.” 
Kelly Payne, another senior artist on display, said the natural beauty she enjoys while running outdoors inspired her work. 
“Running outside got me inter­ested in the beauties of nature, of what God has created to make the world look beautiful,” she said in her artist’s statement. “It also gave me a way to meditate and not think about the opposing and jarring aspects of life.” 
Payne said her artwork depicts the abstract beauty of day-to-day images. 
Abstract imagery also inspired Saint Mary’s senior Elizabeth McDonald to create her three-dimensional display, “A New Age of Horror.” 
Social issues were also an inspiration to some artists. Senior Erin Malter created a six-canvas display to speak about animal abuse. Her exhibit, titled “In Their Shoes,” substituted humans in the place of mistreat­ed animals. 
Senior Caitlin Duerinck creat­ed three-dimensional sculptures for her exhibit, “Duende.” Edward Hirsch’s book, “The Demon and the Angel: Searching for the Source of Artistic Inspiration,” inspired her five large-scale ceramic pieces. 
“This philosophy book exam­ined the ways in which artists in various media, such as dance, poetry and sculpture, connect and respond to the Spanish con­cept of duende, the evocative force that drives people to create works of art,” Duerinck said in her artist’s statement. “I created this work to encourage others to examine how and why they are inspired, to note what they are inspired by and to act upon their personal inspiration.” 
The displays are open to the general public until Friday. 

Contact Alyssa Perez at aperez01@saintmarys.edu 


Thursday, April 14, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS EWS page 5 


Lula’s 
continued from page 1 
locations, he said none of them worked out, despite his desire to bring back the popular restau­rant. 
Because of the inclusive nature of the Lula’s environment, Egan said he would not want the café to move to the Notre Dame campus. 
“Moving on campus would be exclusionary to most in the Michiana community so it would not be my top choice,” Egan said. 
Egan said Lula’s ability to attract members of both the Notre Dame and South Bend communi­ties made it a unique establish­ment in the area. 
“Lula’s has always been a bridge between the university communities … and the town,” Egan said. “Part of the appeal of Lula’s for me and a lot of other people was that we were a place where everybody was welcome.” 
Egan said Lula’s not only served good food but also brought people together and celebrated local art and culture. 
“It was such a welcoming envi­ronment,” Egan said. “You feel like you’re at home. You feel like you can be yourself.” 
Egan said it was still unclear why Lula’s was driven out of its location and given less than 60 days to relocate. 
“There’s nothing wrong with Lula’s. Lula’s was a thriving busi­ness that had this monkey wrench thrown in, this unforeseen cir­cumstance dropped upon it,” Egan said. “Lula’s was thriving even in the face of the new busi­nesses at Eddy Street Commons.” 
Egan said regardless of whether or not Lula’s returns, the café would remain in the memories of its patrons. 
“It’s a blessing to hear stories of people who had their first dates [in Lula’s] or met their spouse or [who say] I got them through their Ph.D.,” Egan said. “I appreciate those stories, and it’s been very nice to hear.” 
Despite his love for Lula’s, Egan said he does not see himself main­taining the same role he used to have now that he is in a leader­ship position at Anthony Travel. 
“I would only suspect [my role] would be as a passive investor … with a more passive ownership position,” Egan said. 
Egan said faithful Lula’s cus­tomers should not give up on the café. 
“My message [to them] is one of hope,” Egan said. “We just haven’t figured out the how yet.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
are valuable because they encourage students to believe intelligence is malleable instead of predetermined. 
“Students that have this belief that intelligence is incremental end up setting goals for them­selves, persisting and dealing with academic challenges bet­ter,” she said. 
Tucker also asked Notre Dame to reconsider the ways in which it evaluates applicants. She said post-secondary institutions tend to overweight standardized test scores and should place greater value on students that believe in their own intellect. 
Rhee said people need to be less averse to conflict and more willing to combat the injustices of the American education sys­tem. 
“We need people who are going to come along and take a harder and harder stance and be willing to risk everything along the way,” she said. “In my mind, there is nothing that is more worth fighting for to ensure that the next generation of Americans … can have a chance at a great life and live the American dream because they’re getting a good educa­tion.” 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Baldrick’s 
continued from page 1 
said. “It’s just as much an awareness event as a fundrais­er — all of ND coming together for one cause.” 
Soler said Paris is among a number of non-students partic­ipating in the effort. 
Paris is shaving her head in solidarity with children affect­ed by cancer. As a volunteer for beYOUtiful, a local initiative working with middle school girls to develop a healthy con­ception of “true beauty,” Paris said shaving her head also offers a unique opportunity to further beYOUtiful’s cause. “I’m excited about the platform this has given me,” she said. “I’m excited to share my testi­mony with [the girls] and show them that it’s not always going to be perfect and pretty.” 
Junior center Mike Golic said he and fellow teammate Dayne 


System 
continued from page 1 
problems was not enough, that action was required. 
“We cannot intellectualize this achievement gap for another generation,” Fuller said. “You all have got to demand more from those of us who have verbalized about this prob-
lack of effort or care. 
“There is this real aversion right now to wanting to differen­tiate between teachers,” Rhee said. “We have to create a dynamic with teachers where, when we start to talk about effectiveness, it doesn’t become an anti-teacher thing … Being a teacher in an urban school dis­trict is the most difficult thing you can do. And because of its 
difficulty, not 
lem, but when it comes time to make real, hard  “There is nothing that is more worth fghting  everybody going to good at it.”  is be  
decisions … it’s clear to me that adult interests  for to ensure that the next generation of  Fuller said many teachers work at schools  
far  outweigh  Americans ... can have  where  they  
student inter­ests. As long as we allow adult  a chance at a great life and live the  would not send their own chil­dren but  
interests  to  American dream  demand those  
dominate, we will never close the achievement  because they’re getting a good  schools remain open in order to maintain  
gap  in  this  education.”  their salaries.  
country.”  “When  you  
Rhee said the leaders in the educational sys­tem were hesi- Michelle Rhee former chancellor D.C. public schools  tell a parent that you have to keep your kid in a school  
tant to point out  that is clearly  
i n e f f e c t i v e  failing  …  we  

teachers in fear of being labeled have now put the system in front “anti-teacher,” especially when of the needs and interests of our some teachers fail under harsh kids.” conditions rather than from a Tucker said Catholic schools 

Crist have been involved with special meaning for his dorm, The Bald & the Beautiful for Duncan Hall. the past three years. “After my freshman year one 
“We’re actually on the com-of our classmates, Sam Marks, mittee that sets this event up passed away from cancer,” he and gets everything together,” said. “Duncan takes this event Golic said. “Just being out here and tries to have a big partici­and being around these kids pation in it.” that we’re trying to help Oliver said St. Baldrick’s gave through it all — great support to this is really Marks’ family what makes it “I’m excited to share during his time worth it.” in chemothera­
my testimony with
Golic said py and Marks 
[the girls] and show
about 45 mem-was a huge bers of the foot-them that it’s not advocate for the ball team are foundation. 
always going to be
shaving their Last year, 45 
perfect and pretty.” 
heads this year. members of Next year the Duncan shaved team hopes to Angie Paris their heads. win over anoth-This year, Oliver 
University Hair Stylists 
er participant. said the goal is 
“Today we got for 60 residents the big commitment from to participate and raise a total Coach Kelly,” he said. “Once we of $10,000. get the win for a BCS bowl “It helps that my rector gave game this year, he’ll shave his us an incentive,” Oliver said. “If head at the event next year.” we got 60 guys and $10,000, 
Oliver said this event holds a then he would shave his head through and how “We’re all pretty experience.” she found Students who 
attached to our hair. 
strength and it will not be 
It’s defnitely going to 
was something I shaving their admired in her,” be a learning heads but still she said. “I also experience.” want to con-have two other tribute to the family members event can who had to go Kasey Coonan donate eight through radiation sophomore inches of their for cancer.” Saint Mary’s hair to Pantene also.” 
Saint Mary’s College sopho­more Kasey Coonan will be shaving her head in honor of her family members who have been affected by cancer. 
“My aunt had ovarian cancer a couple years back, and I saw the struggles she had to go 
Coonan said her relatives’ tri­als prompted her to take part in the fundraiser. 
“I’m very enthusiastic about it. I have a lot of support from all my friends,” she said. “I love talking about it and I don’t think I’ll be nervous until I face the clippers.” 
Paris said she has become nervous in recent weeks but knows shaving her head will be a unique chance to step out of her comfort zone. 
“We’re all pretty attached to 
our hair,” she said. “It’s defi­nitely going to be a learning 


Beautiful 
Lengths or buy a colored hair extension to benefit Memorial Hospital in South Bend. 
Soler said event organizers decided to donate to Memorial Hospital because students at Notre Dame have worked with children in the hospital’s pedi­atric outpatient program. Children from the hospital and their families are invited to attend the event. 
“When the kids come here they’re seeing people celebrate St. Baldrick’s, but it’s also going back to them,” she said. “This year we made sure the kids were invited early, the families knew and that the football players were coming at the same time.” 
The staff of the hospital is involved as well. Soler said the head pediatric oncologist will speak at the event. In addition, this year one of the nurses is shaving her head while the children are present. 
Soler said The Bald and the Beautiful will offer eight differ­ent color hair extensions, each representing a different type of cancer. 
They are also serving free dinner each night of the event, donated from Fiddler’s Hearth and Maury’s Pub. The Bald and the Beautiful will continue today from 4 to 10 p.m. and Friday from 4 to 8:30 p.m. in the Sorin and Dooley Rooms of LaFortune. 

Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 14, 2011 



FAA suspends sleeping controller, adds staff 
Associated Press 
RENO, Nev. — A napping air traffic controller who forced a medical flight to land unaided in Nevada brought swift reaction from the Federal Aviation Administration, which on Wednesday added a second overnight controller at 26 air­ports and a radar facility. The move came after several other recent incidents of controllers sleeping during their shifts. 
The controller at Reno-Tahoe International Airport was out of communication for about 16 minutes when the aircraft carry­ing at least three people was landing about 2 a.m. Wednesday, the FAA said. No injuries were reported. 
“This is absolutely unaccept­able,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a statement. “The American public trusts us to run a safe system. Safety is our No. 1 priority and I am com­mitted to working 24/7 until these problems are corrected.” 
It was the second case this week of a controller being sus­pended for sleeping on the job. A controller at Boeing Field-King County International in Seattle fell asleep during his morning shift on Monday and was suspended, FAA said. He was already facing disciplinary action for sleeping on two sepa­rate occasions during an early evening shift in January, the agency said. 
The National Air Traffic Controllers Association has warned against putting con­trollers alone on shifts and assigning tiring work schedules. 
At most airport towers, there’s no bathroom in the cab — the room on the top of the tower. With only one controller on duty, the position has to go unattend­ed at times if the controller needs to use a bathroom. It’s common for the nearest bath­room to be located down a flight of stairs from the cab. 
Two controllers at the airport in Lubbock, Texas, were sus­pended for an incident in the early morning hours of March 29, the agency said. In that instance, a controller in Fort Worth had to try repeatedly to raise the Lubbock controllers in order to hand off control of an inbound aircraft. The controllers also failed to hand off a plane departing Lubbock to the Fort Worth radar center, FAA said. 
The latest cases follow three previously disclosed incidents in which controllers have been sus­pended, including two episodes of controllers sleeping on duty. 
“Air traffic controllers are responsible for making sure air­craft safely reach their destina­tions. We absolutely cannot and will not tolerate sleeping on the job,” FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt said in a statement Wednesday. 
Babbitt and Paul Rinaldi, the president of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union that represents FAA’s more than 15,000 controllers, will be visiting airports and radar facilities around the coun­try next week “to reinforce the need for all air traffic personnel to adhere to the highest profes­sional standards,” FAA said in a statement. 
The FAA last month put two controllers on duty during the midnight shift at the Reno-Tahoe airport but went back to one controller several days later after implementing new proce­dures, FAA spokesman Ian Gregor said. Reno is one of the airports that will now get a sec­ond controller. 

Airport chief Krys Bart said the pilot of the medical flight — a Piper Cheyenne with seating for five — and airport staff had tried to contact the controller multiple times without success. The FAA said the pilot was in contact with regional radar con­trollers in northern California during the landing. 
“The pilot evaluated the air­field. The weather was clear. The aircraft did land without incident,” Bart said. 
It was not immediately clear where the flight was coming from. 
The incidents come nearly five years after a fatal crash in Kentucky in which a controller was working alone. Investigators said the controller in Kentucky was most likely suf­fering from fatigue, although they placed responsibility for the crash that took 49 lives on the pilots. 
The new disclosures drew rebukes from the chairmen of the Senate and House commit­tees that oversees FAA’s budget. 
“I just got off the phone with the FAA and told the administra­tor that I am sick of this,” said Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., chairman of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. 
But Rep. John Mica, D-Fla., chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, objected to adding more con­trollers at airports where night­time traffic is light. 
“Only in the federal govern­ment would you double up on workers, averaging $161,000 per year in salary and benefits, that aren’t doing their job,” Mica said in a statement. “This staffing increase misdirects our resources and focus away from congested air traffic control facilities,” he said. 
FAA said the airport towers where a second controller will be added to the midnight shift are Akron-Canton, Ohio; Allegheny, Pa.; Andrews Air Force Base, Md.; Burbank, Calif.; Duluth, Minn.; DuPage, Ill., Fargo, N.D.; two airports in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Ft. Worth Meacham, Texas; Grant County, Wash.; Kansas City, Mo.; Manchester, N.H.; Omaha, Neb.; Ontario, Calif.; Reno-Tahoe, Nev.; Richmond, Va.; Sacramento, Calif.; San Diego, Calif.; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Terre Haute, Ind.; Teterboro, N.J.; Tucson, Ariz.; Willow Run, Mich.; Windsor Locks, Conn., and Youngstown, Ohio. A second nighttime controller was also added at an approach control facility in Omaha. 


NASAshuttle program shuts down operations 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — On a memorable day in space his­tory, NASA began its goodbyes to the shuttle program Tuesday, announcing the aged spacecraft will retire to museums in Cape Canaveral, Los Angeles and suburban Washington and sending a test-flight orbiter to New York City. 
It was an emotional day — the 30th anniversary of the first shuttle launch and the 50th anniversary of man’s first jour­ney into space by Soviet cosmo­naut Yuri Gagarin. Just two more shuttle flights remain, and the head of NASA choked up as he revealed the new homes for the spacecraft in an event at the Kennedy Space Center. 
“For all of them, take good care of our vehicles,” NASA Administrator Charles Bolden, a former astronaut, said with a catch in his voice. “They served a nation well, and we at NASA have a deep and abiding rela­tionship and love affair with them that is hard to put into words.” 
The choice of homes for the spaceships — sometimes described as the most complex machinery ever devised — was hotly contested. Twenty-one museums and visitor centers around the country put in bids. 
The winners will have to come up with an estimated $28.8 million to ferry the shut­tles to their new homes and put them on display. Across the country, cheers erupted at the four winning facilities and groans at the locations that lost out. 
After it closes out the pro­gram, shuttle Atlantis will stay in Cape Canaveral at the space center’s visitor complex, just miles from the pair of launch pads used to shoot the orbiters into space. Space center work­ers, some of whom are likely to lose jobs when the shuttles quit flying later this summer, gave Bolden a standing ovation and whooped and hollered with the news. 




Thursday, April 14, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


CongressionalBudgetOfficeevaluatescompromise 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A new budget estimate released Wednesday shows that the spending bill negotiated between President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner would produce less than 1 percent of the $38 billion in promised savings by the end of this budget year. 
The Congressional Budget Office estimate shows that compared with current spend­ing rates the spending bill due for a House vote Thursday would cut federal outlays from non-war accounts by just $352 million through Sept. 30. About $8 billion in immediate cuts to domestic programs and foreign aid are offset by nearly equal increases in defense spending. 
When war funding is fac­tored in the legislation would actually increase total federal outlays by $3.3 billion relative to current levels. 
To a fair degree, the lack of immediate budget-cutting punch is because the budget year is more than half over and that cuts in new spending authority typically are slow to register on deficit tallies. And Republicans promise that when fully implemented and repeated year after year, the cuts in the measure would reduce the deficit by $315 bil­lion over the coming decade. 
Still, the analysis is an early lesson about Washington budgeting for junior lawmak­ers elected last year on prom­ises to swiftly attack the deficit. 
The House began prelimi­nary debate on the measure Wednesday with it easily advancing over a procedural hurdle by a 241-179 vote. The measure appears on track to pass the House and Senate this week before a stopgap spend­ing measure expires Friday at midnight despite opposition from some of the GOP’s most ardent budget cutters. 
The budget deficit is project­ed at $1.6 trillion this year. 
The CBO study confirms that the measure trims $38 billion in new spending authority rel­ative to current levels, but many of the cuts come in slow-spending accounts like water­and-sewer grants that don’t have an immediate deficit impact. 
A separate CBO analysis provided to lawmakers but not released publicly says that $5.7 billion in savings claimed by cutting bonuses to states enrolling more children and reducing the amount of money available to subsidize health care cooperatives authorized under the new health care law won’t produce a dime of actual savings. CBO believes they are simply cuts to spend­ing authority that is unlikely to be used anyway. 
But those cuts to mandatory benefit programs, while pro­ducing no deficit savings, can be claimed under budget rules to pay for spending increases elsewhere in the legislation. All told, $17.8 million in such savings is 
claimed but just  a  tiny por­ 
t i o n  o f  i t  w o u l d  a c t u a l l y  
reduce the deficit.  

But CBO does credit a move to eliminate year-round Pell Grants with generating more than $40 billion in deficit reduction over the coming decade from both mandatory and appropriated accounts, though just slightly less than $1 billion this year. 
Still, the measure halts and begins to reverse large increases for domestic agency operating budgets that have been awarded during Obama’s first two years in office. 
“With this bill we not only are arresting that growth but we are reducing actual dis­cretionary spending by a record amount, nearly $40 billion in actual cuts in spending that has not ever been accomplished by this body in its history, in the his­tory of the country, ” said House Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold Rogers, R-Ky. “The cuts in this bill exceed anything ever passed by the House.” 
Republicans say they wish the measure would cut more but that the cuts negotiated by Boehner are about as good as can be expected giver that Democrats hold the Senate and the White House. In his February budget, Obama pressed a freeze on domestic agency accounts. 
“The president said he would freeze spending. Our Speaker negotiated, outnum­bered 3-1,” he said, referring to Boehner’s negotiations alone in the oval office with Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. “We have cut spending.” 


California college students and faculty protest budget cuts 
Associated Press against the cuts at California employee furloughs, course depends on voters approving pology classes he is required State University, Sacramento, cutbacks and reduced enroll-temporary increases in sales, to take aren’t being offered including about 100 who occu-ment at the CSU and vehicle and personal income regularly anymore. Jason 
LONG BEACH, Calif. — pied a campus building. University of California sys-taxes. So far, Brown hasn’t Pinzon, a 19-year-old fresh-Thousands of California col-In Long Beach, about 800 tems. secured the Republican sup-man at California State lege students and faculty led demonstrators marched to the The state restored some of port needed to hold a special University, Long Beach, said marches and occupied a cam-student services administra-that funding last year. But election to even allow a vote the more than $4,000 in fees pus administration building tion building, which had California’s public colleges and on the tax question. he pays each year makes it dif-Wednesday in protest of state already shut down as a pre-universities face another Without that tax revenue, ficult to cover his expenses. budget cuts to education that caution, carrying signs reading round of painful cuts as Gov. the state’s public colleges and “This semester I just barely could lead to higher tuition, “Education is a right” and “No Jerry Brown and the universities could see much had enough for my books,” larger class sizes and lower more greed.” Legislature seek to close the deeper cuts, which could lead Pinzon said. enrollment. “I’m just mad at the govern-state’s $26.6 billion budget to soaring tuition bills, fewer Faculty members say the 
The rallies and teach-ins ment for funding more for deficit. undergraduate seats and other younger generation is being were part of a day of protest prison and war than for edu-“We’ve been carving away drastic measures. cheated out of the kind of edu­planned for all 23 California cation,” said Cecillee Espanol, and carving away and carving Faculty leaders say the cuts cation they received in State University campuses. a 22-year-old psychology away,” said Lillian Taiz, presi-threaten to reduce student California — and that enabled Similar events were planned major at the university’s Long dent of the California Faculty access to Cal State, sometimes them to pursue their careers. throughout April at campuses Beach campus, who said she’s Association, which worked called the People’s University, Taiz said she is the prime in Massachusetts, Michigan, going to have to get a job next with students and employees which serves large numbers of example. She was a mother of New Jersey and other states year to cover the cost of her to organize the demonstra-low-income students, many of two children and on welfare where legislators are slashing classes. tions. “The path we are on is whom are the first in their when she went to school and education spending to close Deep budget cuts in almost suicidal for the state.” families to attend college. became a history professor. huge budget shortfalls. California during the height of UC and CSU would lose $500 Brian Delas Armas, a 26-“This is an investment,” she 
About 1,000 faculty mem-the recession two years ago million under the governor’s year-old master’s degree stu-said. “It has made us the envy bers, students and staff rallied led to sharp tuition hikes, budget proposal, but his plan dent, said some of the anthro-of the world.” 

Charlie Sheen discusses possible return to sitcom 
Associated Press saying he’d been asked not to divulge anything. CBS declined to comment, 
LOS ANGELES — Charlie and series producer Warner Sheen says he may be reunited Bros. Television didn’t immedi­with “Two and a Half Men.” ately return a call for comment. 
In an interview with a Boston The actor also said his profits 
radio station Tuesday, Sheen from the show’s rich syndica­said there have been discus-tion deals are being withheld sions about bringing him back and that’s part of his $100 mil-to the hit CBS sitcom he was lion lawsuit against Warner and fired from last month. the show’s executive producer. 
Sheen put the chances of him Sheen was in Boston for his returning at “85 percent.” He nationwide road show that has didn’t offer details in the Sports drawn mixed audience reac-Hub 98.5 WBZ-FM interview, tion. 



The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, April 14, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

West Coast hockey? 
West Coast sports: What a joke. 

They have the beaches, the mountains, Hollywood, etc. They can’t have it all — and fanaticism is not an exception. Their metropolis can’t even keep a football team. 
I mean, their crowds are relaxed and unresponsive, their players are never exposed to the elements and their teams hardly have any tradition what­soever, especially 


in hockey. Who Andrew Gastelum wants to watch hockey in L.A., Assistant 
Anaheim, San Sports Editor Jose, Dallas or Phoenix? 
The first things that come to mind after seeing these names are heat, desert and ocean — not exactly the most conducive environments for hockey. 
These teams just take up meaningless spots in the playoffs that should be reserved for the teams that actually mat­ter: the East Coast and Midwest teams. 
First of all, fans don’t even go to the games, and those who do go don’t care about what is happening. These fans should learn from those of the Pens, Habs and Wings. You know, those teams with the rings. 
Yeah, the Kings and Sharks filled up over 98 percent of their stadiums on average. So what if they had higher attendance figures than both New York teams, Boston and a Canadian team? 
They are probably there to make an appearance — they don’t really care about their “teams”. They don’t even win. I refuse to count that Stanley Cup-sized fluke that the Anaheim Ducks had a few years ago, the decade of dominance by the San Jose Sharks or the back-to-back playoff runs made by the NHL’s youngest team (Los Angeles Kings). 
Beginner’s luck. 

The Ducks were named after a chil­dren’s movie, the Sharks created because there is nothing else to do in San Jose and the Kings could only win when they lured Gretzky to the bright lights of Hollywood from a cash-hungry Oilers squad. 
Sounds like sorry excuses for hockey teams. This season was the worst of all. The competition in the Western Conference was incredible — 12 of the 15 teams finished with records above .500. But of all the teams to make the playoffs, four of them (half of the entire playoffs) had to come from the Pacific Division. 
Thankfully the Stars lost their last game, or else they would have booted the defending-champion Blackhawks from the playoffs and the entire Pacific Division would have made the playoffs. To tell you the truth, I would have rather preferred another lockout. 
It doesn’t matter if that division has sent three teams to the playoffs every season except one since the lockout. 
It’s just not like the rest of the country, sports over there. There is no pride, no fans, no fun. They should just cut hockey from the Pacific and Mountain Time Zones (unless your city is in Canada or above 2,000 feet). Save the integrity of the sport, hockey can’t be popular out west. 
Welcome to the life of a West Coast hockey fan: the criticism, the assump­tions, the disrespect. 
What a joke. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

Who wants to tax a millionaire? 
With April 15 just around the corner and all sorts of stories swirling through the news about budgets, deficit-reduction plans and national debt, it seems as though there is a greater than usual inter­est in the issue of taxation. Given that Ryan Williams the United States is currently racking up trillion-dollar deficits freethoughts like its nobody’s busi­ness (compounding a national debt that already totals some $14 trillion) and is facing the prospect of hav­ing to drastically increase future spending in order to keep pace with rapidly grow­ing entitlement obligations, it is no sur­prise to hear some shameless politicians claiming that “it’s time for the wealthy to start paying their fair share in taxes.” Truth be told, there are few phrases in the English language that are more infuriat­ing than this one for a number of reasons. 
Comments like this betray a blatant ignorance of simple economic concepts as well as the reality of the American tax system, while simultaneously demonstrat­ing utter disregard for fairness and com­mon sense. 
Most observers who believe that wealthy Americans ought to pay more in taxes would probably be surprised to learn that the top 5 percent of individuals in the United States currently pay almost 60 percent of all income taxes, with the top 1 percent of earners supplying 25 per­cent of all government revenues. 
Meanwhile half of all individuals in this country pay no income tax at all. As those who are familiar with the U.S. tax code are well aware, the income of wealthy taxpayers above a certain threshold is subject to a higher marginal rate of taxa­tion (currently 35 percent), one that President Obama and Democratic leaders in Congress would very much like to raise. The entire American tax system is predi­cated on this belief, that wealthier individ­uals should have to pay a higher percent­age of their income in taxes in order to support programs that benefit the less fortunate. This policy needs to change immediately. Not only is the concept of unequal tax rates egregiously unjust, it also spits in the face of common sense and reason. The system as it stands now cur­rently penalizes success and rewards fail­ure — in essence saying that the more productive you are, the more will be taken from you, while the less you con­tribute, the more will be given to you. How can we continue to justify a system that promotes laziness and freeloading? 
Progressive Democrats and their allies on the far left have also recently begun touting increased taxes on the wealthy as a way to help close the budget deficit and start paying down the national debt. Unfortunately, like so many other eco­nomic plans put forth by Democrats recently, this one runs afoul of facts and reality. Currently, income earned by indi­viduals in excess of $373,651 is taxed at a rate of 35 percent, the highest marginal rate. President Obama and Democrats in Congress want to raise this rate to at least 
39.6 percent, where it stood while President Clinton was in office. 
However, even if income above that threshold were taxed at a rate of 100 per­cent, meaning that everything earned by an individual in excess of $373,651 would be collected as tax, still that would only pay for about half of the federal govern­ment’s projected budget deficit for next year. So taxing the wealthy into submis­sion is not going to solve the nation’s fiscal problems — there just isn’t enough money out there in the hands of those few indi­viduals. 
While Democrats will undoubtedly try to raise taxes anyway, regardless of the inef­fectiveness of the policy, there is an inher­ent danger to this approach. There is a theory in economics known as Hauser’s Law, which observes that no matter what the top marginal tax rate has been in the United States, total government revenues have always equaled about 19.5 percent of gross domestic product. President Obama and many other Democrats would like Americans to believe that raising income taxes on the wealthy will generate more revenue that can then be “redistrib­uted.” However, as this law demonstrates, raising taxes on the wealthy will not actu­ally increase government revenues, because the higher tax rates will be offset by decreases in productivity, innovation and growth. The only time government tax revenues will actually increase is when there is first a corresponding rise in GDP. The real question then ought to be how can we best go about increasing gross domestic product? Ask any econo­mist and they will tell you that the answer most certainly is not imposing oppressive rates of taxation, particularly on the wealthy, who are most responsible for job creation. The answer instead will be cut­ting tax rates across the board, which will in turn inspire increased consumer spending and higher rates of economic growth. 
None of the positions staked out in this column are very popular in the U.S. today, and they are even rarer among policy makers in Washington. Very few people are willing to stand up and acknowledge the reality that tax rates for the wealthy are simply too high and are offensive to any reasonable standard of justice. And who can blame them? No one wants to be seen (even if incorrectly) as greedy or self­ish, especially in these difficult economic times. 
But the fact remains that raising taxes on the wealthy will only be counterpro­ductive and will further perpetuate and exacerbate the current system of inequali­ty. In fact, slow economic growth is likely to be the least of this nation’s problems, as wealthy Americans are more likely to finally call it quits if attempts to raise their taxes yet again are successful. Why should they continue to live and work in a country that constantly requests more and more of them, to pay for benefits, welfare and handouts that freeloading Americans demand but refuse to pay for? One day they are just going to leave, and it doesn’t take a Ph.D. in economics to realize how bad that would be for the rest of us. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
One less customer 
Mary (Apr. 13), 

As a waitress, my hourly wage is normally taxed down to zero, and for this reason I am solely dependent upon tips for any take-home money. I am, at the same time, offended by this writer’s attack on Caitlin's article. I believe that Mary took the most trivial and non-issue phrase in Caitlin’s tribute (to Mary’s place of employment) and turned it into something ugly. 
Instead of personally calling Caitlin out for handing the sub’s deliverer $6, why would Mary not thank her for her business? She was dishonoring her company by speaking of her job neg­atively in such a public way. Work is hard, we can all appreci­ate this fact. It’s easy to get beaten down or worn out. But at the same time, why is Mary not satisfied with simply having a job in this time of economic difficulty? 
The proper reaction to reading this Inside Column would have been to give the writer the benefit of the doubt and assume that for modesty’s sake the writer left out the size of the tip they gave. (If, upon reading the article, one still felt strongly enough to write into Viewpoint about tipping, it should be done without calling out the writer by name. To react in any other way is disgraceful to that person’s company, the school that educated him or her and his or her family.) 
I think Caitlin did Mary a service by ordering a sandwich from her store. Furthermore, for her to dedicate a column to just how much she loves the food this store provides is yet another bone she’s tossing the store’s way. Suck it up, Mary. And maybe drive a little faster for better tips. 
You’ve turned Ms. Housley’s love of your store into one less consumer. Congrats, you have one less sub to deliver. 

Cecilia Witous 
Saint Mary’s College Holy Cross Hall Apr. 14 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you planning for the Blue and Gold game? 
Go to the game Who cares about football? Drink all day Study for final exams 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is not the strongest of the speciesthat survives, nor the most intelligent, but the one mostresponsive to change.” 
Charles Darwin English biologist 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 14, 2011 page 9 
Celebrities, confessions and the Cross 
Today’s dining hall buzz is that [insert celebrity recording artist name here] has been spotted strolling around cam­pus. The country-pop music singer is seen getting out of a black Escalade between Touchdown Jesus and the Meg Mirshak Stadium. Then, she struts up South Faithpoint Quad before making her way to Starbucks for a skinny vanilla latte. 
Students squirming in their DeBartolo seats send mass texts to all their friends. Some unabashedly grab their cameras from their dorm rooms to prove on Facebook she is actually at Notre Dame. The Observer assigns its best reporters and photographers to get the story. 
If a celebrity visits our campus, many of us race to see her. We welcome the music singer with screams, requests for autographs and photos together. Don’t try to deny it. 
This Sunday, will you choose to cele­brate another well-known man? The Church commemorates the triumphant entrance of Christ into the city of Jerusalem. Crowds gather, lay down their cloaks for Him to walk on, and cut branches from the palm trees to wave in veneration. Christ returns to his home city to complete his work as our saving Messiah. People praise Him with shouts of “Hosanna in the highest. Blessed are you who have come to us so rich in love and mercy.” 
Palm Sunday begins the paschal mys­tery of Jesus’s suffering, death and ris­ing again to new life. The days following his glorious entry into Jerusalem are darkened by the mystery of the cross. Why do we begin such a solemn week with such a lively, joyful celebration? 
We celebrate the coming of a Lord filled with love and mercy. Holy Week, the most solemn of days in the Church calendar, calls us to remember that Jesus willfully and obediently accepts the Cross. Christ forgives His children of their sins and lovingly promises us a share in His kingdom. 
This Holy Week is an opportunity for us to strengthen our lives by using the Lord’s example of love and mercy that leads Him to the Cross. During the last Lenten days, how can we show others that love is stronger than death? Look to the mercy poured out on the Cross. 
Occasions for love and forgiveness abound each day on our campus. Blessed Basil Moreau, C.S.C., wrote “Human life is like a great way of the Cross … This Way of the Cross is every­where and we travel it every day, even in spite of ourselves and without being aware of it.” 
Be aware of the Way of the Cross this week. You may meet someone who is weeping or sorrowful, or needs help carrying a heavy load. You may be called to love even when it is not the easy or pretty thing to do. Get out of the way and do the work of Christ. 
Be merciful as Christ is merciful. Repent for your own failures and humil­iations, and pardon those who have angered or wronged you. In forgiveness, we love life more than death. We reverse the suffering caused by our own humanity. 
Seek the Sacrament of Reconciliation when needed. Consult schedules for Holy Week in the Basilica. Confessions are offered multiple times each day, including 10:15 p.m. Tuesday night fol­lowing the campus-wide Stations of the Cross. 
To genuinely receive Christ the King as we commemorate on Palm Sunday, we need to awaken ourselves to our shortcomings. In what ways do we fail to love despite being loved so much by Christ? The more we seek to love and forgive, the more we are ready to rise, lay down our cloaks and carry palm branches. 
Love and forgiveness can permeate our campus this Holy Week and fill it with special graces. Let’s make that our last Lenten promise, and then we will run enthusiastically towards the Cross that holds the hope of our Easter salva­tion. 
Meg Mirshak is an intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at mmirshak@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Where’s the recognition? 
As I read The Observer on April 12 I looked for some sort of article about the 150th anniversary of the Civil War. 150 years ago the Battle of Fort Sumter occurred. The confederates attacked the union fort and both sides called for war. The North fought for Union while the South fought to protect their constitutional rights and their home. The North tends to ignore that the war ever occurred while some of the South tries to hold on to their past. 
Here at Notre Dame, though, there’s a different meaning behind the civil war. The “Fighting Irish” is inherited from the Irish immigrant soldiers who fought with the Union’s Irish Brigade. This was a group of soldiers, including Notre Dame students who were from New York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. They fought in the Peninsula Campaign, the Seven Days Battles, the Battles of Antietam, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Gettysburg, Petersburg and at Appomattox Court House. They were at all the major battles of the Civil War. Notre Dame’s third president, Fr. William Corby, was a famous Irish Brigade Champlain and his statue sits outside Corby Hall. He is as well the only statue at Gettysburg of a non-general solider. 
With all this history influencing Notre Dame, it’s sad that there was no recognition of an important day in American history. While no one wants to remember the terrible past of slavery or the most deadly war in American history, it’s still an impor­tant part of past. 
Alex Penler 
freshman McCandless Hall Apr. 12 



Wear sunscreen! 
Dear fellow Irish, 

I am writing this letter to you all in hopes that the unfortunate fate that has befallen me will be avoided by all you pale skinned people out there. As a fresh­man, I was unaware of how the months of sunless Notre Dame could make one tired, grumpy and yearning to see our yellow friend peek through the clouds again. And stupidly, I was also unaware that not seeing the sun for several months made my skin whiter and more sensitive than usual. 
When the sun broke through the clouds this past Sunday afternoon, and while the temperatures climbed up to 80 degrees, I, like many of my ginger classmates, forgot about my sensitive, pale skin for the day and ventured across campus at noon to cheer on the boy’s lacrosse team as they beat Georgetown. 
This is what did me in. Two hours in the direct sunlight without lotion on sizzled my pale skin to a scalding red. I can honestly say this is the worst sun­burn I’ve ever received — every step I take I wince. 
So, Irish gingers, if you have by some small chance avoided the first sunburn of the season this week­end, I send out warning to you all: put on sunscreen! We don’t tan, we burn. I sincerely hope that others will take heed of my warning and lather up during the sunny days to come. 
And if you see a girl walking around campus with lobster legs and arms, you know that you have spot­ted me. 
Sincerely, 
Chelsea Ripp 
freshman Lewis Hall Apr. 11 


A gentlemenly rebuttal 
The Men of Morrissey Manor take great the comfort of a lady. This is of course non-exception to slandering of those who identify sense and the complete opposite of how a true themselves as gentlemen in Humanity’s Bro’s gentleman strives to act. However the ladies of recent article (Apr. 13). The iconic men Notre Dame wish to dress, they should know Morrissey produces have long identified them-that any true gentlemen will treat them in a selves as gentlemen first, and prided them-courteous and honorable manner and anyone selves on chivalrous conduct and always being who does not is unworthy of the title our dying ready, willing and able to indulge the faintest breed is trying to uphold. whim of a member of the fairer sex. It is clear that Humanity’s Bro has never encountered Victor LeVasseur one of these upstanding Manorites from the freshman article’s description of a gentleman as a stiff Morrissey Manor prissy with little self-control and no regard for Apr. 13 


Come take a swing 
Tired of the same boring dorm parties without any swing music? 
Girls, tired of creepy guys dancing up on you without ask­ing? Guys, tired of not being able to show off your dance moves and impress that girl you’ve liked ever since she sat besides you in that one class? Then we at Swing Club have the greatest opportunity for you! 
We announce the first ever Swing Formal, which will be held this Saturday, April 16, in the Knights of Columbus building from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. There will be food, there will be music and there will be most of all space. Anybody can come to this event for only a dollar, but swing members and ballroom members get in for free. That’s right. Free. 
Boyfriends, this is a way you can get classy without get­ting too expensive (if you want expensive, go to Lasalle Grill in South Bend, absolutely delicious). Dress is classy — after all it is a formal — but come ready to dance. 
Come for the dancing. Come to try and pick up that one cool move you see that one guy in the hat pull at Legends all the time. Come for the food, come to get down with your boogie self and come to have a — got to keep this clean — great time! Don’t be nervous or scared to come out. After all, Franklin Roosevelt said, 
“The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.” 
See, even one of the greatest presidents of our time wants you to go. We intend to have a blast, and anybody sure as heck can join in for this ridiculous night of dancing. 
Knights of Columbus Building, Saturday, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Be there. 
Sophomore Swinger, 
Joshua Gaston 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Apr. 11 

The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Thursday, April 14, 2011 

The Best Sequels  
Lord of the Rings ancies. From Moria to Helm’s deep, Peter Jackson’s 2001-2003 trilogy Rohan to Gondor, these movies kept not only swept up the Academy audiences in their seats, despite the Awards, it also captured the hearts of films’ almost three-hour lengths. millions of Tolkien fans. Each movie Producers made sure the series stayed close to the storyline of the never featured a dull moment and beloved book it followed, which helped kept the dialogue fresh and witty. make each sequel a credible movie of Viewers, even those who hadn’t read its own. the books, could not wait to see what This direc­would befall Frodo and his compan­tion also ions in each installment. And Jackson helped keep didn’t even have to resort to painful the story cliffhangers. The all-star cast, who arch of the returned for each movie, and trilogy on Jackson’s novel idea to film all three track, elimi­movies at once greatly aided the suc­nating silly cess of his trilogy. These practices mistakes ought to serve as standards for other and discrep­series to follow.  

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Thursday, April 14, 2011 page 11 
“True Grit” SUB Movie 
When: 10 p.m. 

Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall 
How Much: $3 

Don’t miss the chance to see “True Grit,” which was nomi­nated for 10 Academy Awards in January. This film follows a precocious girl ’s journey through the Wild West, on a hunt for the man who killed her father. 
Comedian John Mulaney at Legends 
When: 10 p.m. 
Where: Legends 
How Much: Free 

Comedian John Mulaney’s come­dy tour is Dome-bound. Mulaney, a “Saturday Night Live” writer and performer on VH1’s “Best Week Ever,” has also appeared on “Late Night with Conan O’Brien” and “Jimmy Kimmel Live.” 
Blue-Gold Spring Football Game 
When: 2 p.m. 
Where: Notre Dame Stadium 
How Much: $12 
2011’s football season kicks off with the annual Blue-Gold Spring Football Game. Following the debut of this year’s “The Shirt,” the scrimmage allows fans a chance to show their col­ors and get an early look at the team. 
Notre Dame Symphonic Band and Winds Concert 
When: 3 p.m. 
Where: DPAC 
How Much: Free 
Having recently performed in the Beijing Concert Hall, the Sydney Opera House and the world-famous Carnegie Hall, the Notre Dame Symphonic Band and Symphonic Winds will be on top of their game Sunday. 


By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

Don’t take Tina Fey’s memoir “Bossypants” to class or the library, because laughing out loud is a guar­antee. With the tagline, “Once in a generation a woman comes along who changes everything. Tina Fey is not that woman, but she met that woman once and acted weird around her,” you can get a taste of Fey’s spe­cial brand of self-deprecating humor, which permeates the whole book. 
Fey’s writing style makes you feel like you’re having one really long conversation with your sarcastic, sassy best friend. The book begins “Welcome Friend,” which would defi­nitely be creepy coming from anyone but a real amigo, or rather freund, as the German Fey would say. 
Fey seems almost indistinguishable from her character Liz Lemon on NBC’s comedy “30 Rock,” but how alike are they in reality? Turns out exactly as much, if not more, than you thought. Fey explores these simi­larities in her memoirs and more. Much more. 
She gives ... well, let’s just call it her own special point of view on being the boss lady, tales of awkward encounters with the opposite sex from her teenage and adult years, and everything she knows about womanhood. How to lay out with tanning oil instead of sunscreen and how to listen to “General Hospital” on the radio by turning the radio dial way down — it’s all in this book. There’s a brief foray into her hijinks working the front desk at a Chicago YMCA, her death-defying honeymoon and her entrance on the “Saturday Night Live” stage, which serves as the inspiration for some of the weird­er plots on “30 Rock.” 
Although the book reads like a ran­dom series of articles (considering two excerpts have been printed in the “The New Yorker” it kind of is) anyone with a sense of humor can find the fun in Fey’s tales of a woman unintentionally shaking things up in the male-dominated comedy world, 
i.e. pitching skits like “Kotex Classic.” So fair warning to any hap­less male who might pick the book up — it is definitely not for those who want women to remain flawless, goddess-y mysteries (men still think that about women, right?). Life gets real when you’re dealing with Fey. No awkward, absurd moment is left untold. 
Shaking up “SNL” with sassy and downright weird fellow female cast members might not have been easy, but her and bestie Amy Poehler’s response to the hilarious (hint: sar­casm) quip that “women aren’t funny” is simply, “We don’t [exple­tive] care if you like it.” 
In fact, Fey said in her book, “My hat goes off to them. It is an impres­sively arrogant move to conclude that just because you don’t like something, it is empirically not good. I don’t like Chinese food, but I don’t write articles trying to prove it does­n’t exist.” 
This is one comedian who can walk the walk and talk the talk, so women out there, take her advice. Do your thing and don’t care who likes it. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 14, 2011 
MLB 

Without Hamilton, Rangers fall to Tigers 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Josh Hamilton sat in front of his locker and seemed a little more at ease, saying he and third-base coach Dave Anderson have cleared up any misunderstandings. 
Now, the Texas Rangers have to try to win without their slug­ger. Their first attempt fell short. 
Brandon Inge hit a solo home run in the bottom of the ninth inning and the Detroit Tigers beat the Rangers 3-2 on Wednesday. It was Texas’ first game without Hamilton, who broke his right arm Tuesday while being thrown out at the plate. 
Hamilton tagged up on a foul popup, a risky play he called “stupid” afterward. He said running was a bad decision, but that Anderson told him to do it. 
The two met before Wednesday’s game. 
“I just appreciate Dave hav­ing confidence in my ability to think I could make that play. We talked behind closed doors and just kind of talked about everything,” Hamilton said. “I could have took a different route, as far as trying to cool down a little bit before I spoke, but everything’s good.” 
Hamilton broke his upper right arm. The Rangers put him on the 15-day disabled list, but the reigning AL MVP is expect­ed to miss six to eight weeks. He isn’t expected to swing a bat for a month. Texas recalled infielder Chris Davis from Triple-A Round Rock. 
Anderson said before the game the team’s style isn’t going to change. 
“It’s an aggressive play that we tried to do and it didn’t work. That took us a long way last year — a lot of those plays that we did. That’s part of our game,” Anderson said. “If he doesn’t get hurt, then we’re not even talking about this right now. He’s out at home plate, we go back out. ... My job at third base is two things: Make sure they get the signs, and try to score as many runs as we can possibly score.” 
A few hours later, Hamilton clarified his initial comments. 
“I wasn’t calling him stupid or anything like that. It was just the play itself and coming out injured,” Hamilton said. “I could have made the play and then not gotten hurt, and it would have been a great play, but it didn’t work out that way.” 
Texas had other problems besides Hamilton’s absence. With the rotation taxed because of a Saturday doubleheader, the Rangers used five pitchers Wednesday. 
Spot starter Dave Bush made his first appearance of the sea­son. He made it through three scoreless innings, although he allowed three hits and three walks and threw 71 pitches. 
“My pitch count was awfully high for three innings,” Bush said. “That was the determin­ing factor in me coming out. It’s been so long since I’ve pitched, I really didn’t want to go out and blow it out in the first time out. ... I’ll take the three zeros.” 
With one out in the ninth, Inge hit the first pitch from Darren Oliver (1-1) over the left-field wall. those yesterday or the day 

“It looked like a slider down before, but I wasn’t really look-the middle,” Inge said. “I knew ing for any pitch. I just wanted he had thrown me a couple of something over the middle.” 
NBA 

Lakers’ Bryant fined for homophobic slur 
his words came out of frustration the third quarter. He got his 15th worldwide for most of his 15-this on the playground and in 
Associated Press 

and shouldn’t be taken literally. technical of the season for argu-year career, spent entirely with our schools, creating a climate of 
LOS ANGELES — The NBA “We applaud Commissioner ing the call, one shy of the cumu-the Lakers, even after he was intolerance and hostility,” fined Kobe Bryant $100,000 on Stern and the NBA for not only lative trigger for a one-game arrested and accused of sexual Barrios said. “The LA Lakers Wednesday for using a derogato-fining Bryant but for recognizing NBA suspension. assault in 2003 in a case that have a responsibility to educate ry gay term in frustration over a that slurs and derogatory com-“What I said last night should was later dropped. He has sever-their fans about why this word is referee’s call. ments have no place on the bas-not be taken literally. My actions al lucrative unacceptable.” 
NBA Commissioner David ketball court or in society at were out of frustration during endorsement Known as a Stern issued a swift disciplinary large,” Human Rights Campaign the heat of the game, period,” deals with fierce competitor ruling after the five-time NBA President Joe Solmonese said. Bryant said in a statement issued c o m p a n i e s “The words expressed with a nasty edge, champion guard cursed and “We hope such swift and decisive through the Lakers. “The words ranging from Bryant has 
do NOT refect my

used a common homophobic slur action will send expressed do Sprite to ranked among 
feelings towards the

when referee Bennie Adams a strong and NOT reflect my T u r k i s h the NBA’s top 10 called a technical foul on him universal mes-feelings towards Airlines. gay and lesbian accumulators of Tuesday night in the third quar-sage that this the gay and les-His No. 24 technical fouls 
communites and were 

ter of Los Angeles’ win over the kind of hateful “Kobe Bryant’s bian communities jersey was the during each of the 
NOT meant to offend

Spurs. outburst is sim-comment during last and were NOT league’s best-past six seasons, “Kobe Bryant’s comment dur-ply inexcusable meant to offend selling uniform anyone.” and he has edged 
night’s game was 
ing last night’s game was offen-no matter what anyone.” among fans Kobe Bryant right up to the sive and inexcusable,” Stern the context.” offensive and The 32-year-old during each of line of serious 
Lakers’ forward 

said. “While I’m fully aware that  B r y a n t ’ s  inexcusable.”  Bryant is a for- the  past  two  NBA  discipline  
basketball is an emotional game,  words  and  mer league Most  seasons,  and  this  spring.  He  
such a distasteful term should never be tolerated. ... Kobe and everyone associated with the  actions were captured by TNT’s cameras  David Stern NBA commissioner  Valuable Player, a 13-time All-Star, the leading scorer  Bryant’s jersey finished second to LeBron James’ new Miami uniform in  ranks second only to Orlando’s Dwight Howard in technical fouls this season, most- 
NBA know that insensitive or  during the net- in Lakers fran­ the  NBA’s  annual  rankings  ly for arguing with referees.  
derogatory comments are not  work’s national  chise history and  released earlier Wednesday.  Bryant was called for an addi­ 
acceptable and have no place in  broadcast  of  sixth on the NBA’s  Gay-rights groups denounced  tional technical foul that was  
our game or society.”  the Lakers’ regular-season home  career list after passing Moses  Bryant’s actions. Jarrett Barrios,  rescinded Monday. If Bryant gets  
Stern’s action drew praise  finale.  Malone last month. He was the  president of the Gay & Lesbian  another T in the Lakers’ season  
from gay-rights organizations  Bryant punched  his  chair  MVP of the last two NBA finals  Alliance Against Defamation,  finale  at  Sacramento  on  
that have demanded a fuller  before taking  a  seat  on  the  while leading the Lakers to back- said slurs are unacceptable.  Wednesday night, he would be  
apology from Bryant and the  bench and threw a towel on the  to-back titles.  “Professional sports players  suspended for the first game of  
Lakers. Bryant issued a state- court near his feet in frustration  Bryant has been among the  need to set a better example for  next season, not for a playoff  
ment earlier Wednesday, saying  after picking up his fourth foul in  NBA’s  most  popular players  young people who use words like  game.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Don’t bail on me now Becca. If you or someone you care about ——————————————— 

FOR SALE FOR RENT NOTICES has been sexually assaulted, \ PERSONAL A Haiku to the King: 
There is nothing to Home in Clay Twship-SMC Women-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Describe my experience less than 3mi to ND. Don't go it alone. we can help. THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA--Except — F. G. R. $75K. cute house for rent. Notre Dame has many resources in enchanting and unforgettable! ——————————————— 2BR 1BA. 3BR 1BA place to assist you. If you or some-Read this wonderful stage play on You’re going to drink harder than Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30 one you love needs confidential For more information, Kindle @ Amazon.com, you’ve ever drank before... pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, nice close to campus. support or assistance, please call under Books! ...Failure is not an option... deck and firepit. Wood heat. New $1500. Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. visit Notre Dames website: ——————————————— ...That’s how winning is done... furnace and water heater. Here’s to you Ryan, John, Eric, ...And tell our enemies, they can Low taxes. Call for further details For more information, visit ND's Jimmy, Will, Ryan, Tony, Matthew, take our lives, but they can never Call 574-261-2357 website at: http://pregnancysup-http://csap.nd.edu Bobby, Pat, James and Danny. take, our Calling. 
616-292-9829 port@nd.edu Bottoms up. WAKE IT, SHAKE IT. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, April 14, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NHL 

Bruins look to Thomas to fill role as playoff goalie 
Associated Press 
WILMINGTON, Mass. — Tim Thomas came out of playoff hibernation and played better than any goalie this season. Now, he’ll try to be just as sharp in the postseason for the Boston Bruins. 
Carey Price spent most of last year’s playoffs on the bench. Then, he started 70 games for the Montreal Canadiens. 
Another postseason starts Thursday in one of the NHL’s richest rivalries and the goalies who didn’t matter just a year ago loom as major fac­tors. 
“The situation’s totally dif­ferent,” Thomas said Wednesday after a light prac­tice lasting about 45 minutes. “That’s the way it is in this game. Every year’s different and a new opportunity.” 
Thomas sat out the playoffs last year with a left hip injury that required surgery. Tuukka Rask started all 13 games in his place and seemed set to keep the No. 1 job. But Rask had little chance as Thomas finished first in the NHL with a 
2.00 goals against average, a .938 save percentage and a .718 winning percentage and second with nine shutouts. 
Now, he’s a favorite to win his second Vezina Trophy in three years. 
“I don’t think he was 100 percent healthy last year and it really didn’t help his play,” Boston coach Claude Julien said. “What you saw this year is what you saw two years ago, when he won the Vezina.” 
Price lost his job in the mid­dle of last season to Jaroslav Halak and started just one of Montreal’s 18 playoff games. But when Halak was traded to the St. Louis Blues less than a month after the Canadiens’ season ended, Price took over. He finished third in the league with eight shutouts, seventh with a .923 save percentage and 10th with a 2.35 goals against average. 
“He could have easily pouted and been a distraction” in last year’s playoffs, Montreal’s Scott Gomez said. “He stayed after (practice), took extra shots. He was always positive, always talking. You’ve had backups when they’re upset, you know it. Not this guy. He didn’t even make it an issue.” 
The Canadiens, seeded eighth going into the Eastern Conference playoffs last year, overcame a 3-1 deficit and eliminated the top-seeded Washington Capitals in seven games. Then, they knocked off the defending-champion Pittsburgh Penguins in seven games after trailing 3-2, before being eliminated by the Philadelphia Flyers in the con­ference finals in five games. 
“We definitely learned some things as a team, especially that series against Washington,” Price said. “When we got down like that, we just played with no fear. And I think that’s how we’ve got to go into these playoffs.” 

MLB 

Pennington leads Oakland to victory over Sox 

9 hole, Pennington faced a dif-run single into center and the claw.” 10th for his fifth save in five 
Associated Press 

ficult situation in the ninth A’s added three more in the With the White Sox leading chances. 
CHICAGO — Cliff inning. The Oakland Athletics 10th for a 7-4 victory. 4-1 in the ninth, Chris Sale Oakland finished its road 
Pennington’s swing had been had scored but still trailed the “Matt Thornton on the gave up a leadoff double to trip to Toronto, Minnesota and 
off and he’d been limited for Chicago White Sox by two. mound throwing 97 miles per Conor Jackson, an RBI single Chicago at 5-4. 
two games because of an And now the bases were hour, I just tried to get a fast-to Josh Willingham and a sin-“I just loved the attitude. infected sweat gland under his loaded with two outs. ball I could hit and it fell in,” gle to Hideki Matsui. Jesse The guys kept fighting right to arm. Facing struggling closer Pennington said. Crain came on and walked the end,” manager Bob Geren Entering with a .160 aver-Matt Thornton, Pennington “That’s what we have to do pinch-hitter Daric Barton to said. “We were down and it age and batting out of the No. delivered. He dropped a two-offensively — scratch and load the bases before fanning was going to take putting Kurt Suzuki. some hits together, drawing 
Thornton then struck out some walks, and we did it. 
pinch-hitter Ryan Sweeney for “I know their bullpen is 
the second out but couldn’t struggling a little bit, it gives 
get the ball past Pennington. you a little bit of feeling of 
“I guess it’s made news that hope. They just battled. ... 
those guys have been strug-Think about the road trip, 
gling a little bit, but you’re how many close games we’ve 
bringing in Sale, Thornton had, this one to finish it off, 
and Crain out of the bullpen, it’s a really good feeling. It’s 
those guys are all nasty and going to be a nice flight 
they’ve been nasty for a home.” 
while,” Pennington said. Oakland’s rally denied John 
“They’re going to be a really Danks a victory after he gave 
good bullpen, we’re just trying up a run and five hits in eight 
to scratch a few runs across solid innings. 
any way we can.” The White Sox broke a 1-all 
Coco Crisp entered in the tie in the sixth against ninth as a pinch runner and Oakland starter Brett was in a 3-for-22 slump before Anderson when Carlos singling off Thornton (0-2) to Quentin was hit by a pitch, give the A’s the lead in the Alex Rios doubled and a slid­10th. The hit came right after ing Quentin scored on Ramon Thornton — who is 0 for 4 on Castro’s grounder to third that save opportunities this season drew a high throw to the plate 
— walked Jackson and from Kevin Kouzmanoff. Willingham. Brent Morel dropped down a 
Barton followed with a two-bunt to score Rios from third run single and Thornton was for a 3-1 lead. Juan Pierre’s booed as he walked off the third single of the game mound after being replaced by chased Anderson (0-2), who Tony Pena. was hurt by his own error in 
The White Sox now have lost the fifth. Anderson gave up 
late-inning leads three times nine hits and three runs — 
in less than a week, twice to two earned — in 5 2-3 
the A’s, who also rallied to win innings. 
Monday night’s series opener. “I was (in the clubhouse), 
“Oh man,” Thornton said. sitting here and Pennington 
“There’s nothing to even flared one in,” Anderson said. 
describe it right now. “Especially as the starting 
Frustration is pretty high. ... pitcher on the hook for the 
Confidence isn’t the problem. loss, it’s not only a comeback 
It’s my frustration right now. for the team, but a no-deci­
It’s the most frustrated I’ve sion for you. It’s good for 
been in a long time. I can’t everybody.” 
remember a run of games like Matsui’s second homer of 
this where I haven’t gotten the the season put Oakland up 1-0 
job done that many times in a in the fourth. Chicago tied it in 
row.” the fifth when Pierre reached 
Grant Balfour (1-1) pitched as Anderson fumbled his the ninth for the win and comebacker for an error and Brian Fuentes worked the Gordon Beckham doubled. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 14, 2011 
NFL 

Bargaining issues continue 
his work cut out for him. 
The key for Boylan is to make both sides comfortable with his neutrality and fairness, said Robert Berliner, an attorney who runs the Berliner Group mediation service in Chicago. He said the judge also has to prove he knows the subject and is flex­ible. Persuasiveness is a must, too. 
“I think this is a fascinating opportunity to bring this to a successful conclusion, but the parties have to be willing,” Berliner said. “The mediator can only suggest, cajole and work hard to bring them together. He can’t make it happen, and if the parties aren’t willing to make a deal the best mediator in the world can’t make it happen.” 
U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson, who ordered the mediation, is still consider­ing a request from the players to lift the lockout imposed by the owners. After an April 6 hear­ing, she said she planned to rule on the injunction request in a couple of weeks. 
Players including MVP quar­terbacks Tom Brady and Peyton Manning filed the request along with a class-action antitrust suit against the league. The lawsuit has been combined with two other similar claims from retirees, former players and rookies-to-be. 
For now, at least the two sides will be talking again — even though it’s under a court order. 
“Whether they’ll make progress, it’s really hard to tell,” Berliner said. “I’d like to think so because I’m firmly a believer that parties are way better off deciding these issues for them­selves than having courts decide them.” 
MLB 
Liriano, Twins struggle against Aviles, Royals 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Francisco Liriano changed up this time and threw more fastballs. Too bad for him, the result was a replay of his two other starts. 
Slumping Mike Aviles dou­bled twice and drove in three runs as the Kansas City Royals became the latest team to tag Liriano, roughing up the Minnesota Twins 10-5 Wednesday. 
Aviles ended his 0-for-18 rut and Alex Gordon added two hits and drove in two runs. The Royals scored six times in the fourth inning to break open the game. 
“It was a tough inning for me,” Liriano said. “I think I made some good pitches in that inning and they still got hits. So, you’ve just got to tip your hat to them.” 
Liriano (0-3) gave up six straight hits during the Royals’ big inning. He began the game with a 7.71 ERA after Toronto and the New York Yankees knocked him around in his first two starts. 
The left-hander went 14-10 with a 3.62 ERA last year and ranked fifth in the AL with 201 strikeouts. He is still try­ing to re-establish his domi­nance after elbow surgery four years ago. 
Liriano held the Royals hit­less through the first three innings. The second time through the order, however, proved a tougher task. That’s been his pattern this year — in their first plate appearance against Liriano, hitters are batting just .083. 
Manager Ron Gardenhire has been telling Liriano to relax, trust his movement and pitch to contact. In the first three innings, Liriano has a 
2.00 ERA; from the fourth inning on, his ERA jumps to 
18.56 and hitters are hitting .448 off him. 
“I threw more fastballs than I’m used to today,” Liriano said. “I just wanted them to put the ball in play and not strike them out.” 
Kansas City opened the fourth with five straight sin­gles before a two-run double by Aviles. Alcides Escobar later singled and Chris Getz had an RBI single. 
“Balls just seemed to find holes,” Gardenhire said. “Nothing was hit really hard. Maybe a couple of them, but balls just kept finding places and rolling through.” 
Denard Span was 4 for 4 and scored twice for the Twins, who started the day as the lowest-scoring team in the majors. 
“I thought the last couple of days the ball was coming off our bats pretty good,” Gardenhire said. “We had a lot better at-bats and made some things happen. We got back into the game today by swinging the bats and having some good at-bats.” 
Kansas City is showing no such problem with its bats. 
The Royals started the day with the AL’s second-best bat­ting average and every starter except Matt Treanor finished with a hit Wednesday. 


formally added to the legal team 
Associated Press 
last week so he could represent 

MINNEAPOLIS — Different the players in mediation even state. Different mediator. Same though he is no longer their disagreements. union boss. 
One month and two days after The talks are seen as the first the NFL and its players cut off encouraging step since March negotiations on a new collective 11, when the union was dis-
b a r g a i n i n g  solved, the CBA  
agreement and  expired and the  
put the 2011 sea- NFL wound up  
son in peril, the  a  few  hours  
two sides return to  will the  “Whether they’ll make  later with its first work stop- 
table for court-ordered media­tion Thursday  progress, it’s really hard to tell.”  page since the 1987 strike. All that has taken  
with a key legal ruling on the  Robert Berliner  place since then are law- 
lockout  still  Berliner Group attorney  suits and sharp  

pending. 
NFL executives met with U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan on Wednesday for five hours the day before the first talks between the league and the players since the middle of March. 
Executive vice president Jeff Pash, the NFL’s lead negotiator, was at the federal courthouse along with other officials and outside counsel. Lawyers for the players met with Boylan for about four hours on Tuesday. 
“We appreciate the opportuni­ty to meet with the magistrate and review the issues with him in preparation for our session tomorrow, and we’re looking forward to seeing the players and their representatives tomor­row morning,” Pash said. He declined to comment further. 
Larger contingents are expect­ed on when mediation begins in Boylan’s chambers, including commissioner Roger Goodell himself. League spokesman Greg Aiello said Goodell will attend along with some of the owners. 
NFL Players Association exec­utive DeMaurice Smith is sched­uled to attend, too, after with­drawing from a speaking event at Wake Forest so he could be in Minnesota. 
The NFLPA, dissolved by a vote of the players, is now a trade association and not a union. Smith, an attorney, was disagreements 
between the 
two sides in 
one of the most 
rancorous sports labor disputes in memory. 
The lockout followed 16 days of negotiations overseen by a federal mediator in Washington, with the league and players fail­ing to agree on how to divide more than $9 billion in annual revenue. 
The owners wanted to double the money they get off the top for expenses from about $1 bil­lion to about $2 billion, but that number decreased during the last round of mediation. The players have insisted on full financial disclosure from all 32 teams, and so far the league has not opened the books to their liking. 
Other major issues included benefits for retired players and the NFL’s desire to stretch the regular season from 16 to 18 games. The NFL also wants to cut almost 60 percent of guaran­teed pay for first-round draft picks, lock them in for five years and divert the savings to veter­ans’ salaries and benefits. 
More than $525 million went to first-rounders in guaranteed payments in 2010. The league wants to decrease that figure by $300 million, according to docu­ments obtained by The Associated Press. The NFLPA had no immediate comment. 
Boylan has a reputation as a problem-solver, but he may have 


Thursday, April 14, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 14, 2011 

MLB 

Bonds convicted of obstruction of justice 

over. Kathy Hoskins, testified that she 2001 with the Giants. 
Impeccably dressed in suit saw Anderson inject Bonds in Illston would not let prosecu­and tie, Bonds flashed a victory the navel before a roadtrip in tors present evidence of three sign to a few fans. 2002. Hoskins was not sure alleged positive drug tests by “Are you celebrating tonight?” what substance was being Bonds because Anderson one asked. injected. refused to testify and there was “There’s nothing to celebrate,” Amber noted that Bonds’ for-no one to confirm the samples 
he replied. mer mistress, Kimberly Bell, came from Bonds. 
Lead defense attorney Allen testified he complained of sore-Bonds acknowledged that he Ruby said the prosecution failed ness from injections. “That’s did take steroids but said to prove the heart of its case. what kind of stuck out for me,” Anderson misled him into 
The obstruction of justice the juror said. believing they were flaxseed oil count was a complicated charge The jury foreman said the and arthritis cream. that asked jurors to decide if woman who held out on the Anderson was sentenced by Bonds was being evasive when needle count did so because Illston in 2005 to three months making any one of seven state-Hoskins was the only eyewit-in prison and three months in ments to the grand jury. He was ness. home confinement after plead-convicted on a single statement U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag ing guilty to one count of money about his childhood as the son said prosecutors were gratified laundering and one count of of major leaguer Bobby Bonds by the guilty count and had not steroid distribution. The trainer and his relationship with per-decided whether to seek a retri-was jailed on March 22 for the sonal trainer Greg Anderson — al on the remaining charges. duration of the trial after again it did not address performance-“This case is about upholding refusing to testify against Bonds. enhancing drugs. one of the most fundamental He was released last Friday. 
The government “has deter-principles in our system of jus-Jeff Novitzky, the federal mined it’s unlawful for Barry tice — the obligation of every agent who started the BALCO Bonds to tell the grand jury he’s witness to provide truthful and probe, had been hoping the a celebrity child and to talk direct testimony in judicial pro-Bonds case would be part of a about his friendship with Greg ceedings,” Haag said in a state-wider investigation of doping in Anderson,” Ruby said. ment. “In the United States, tak-baseball. Last year, the 9th U.S. 
The foreman of the jury, who ing an oath and promising to Circuit Court of Appeals ruled would only give his first name, testify truthfully is a serious that Novitzky and his team of Fred, said if prosecutors want to matter. We cannot ignore those investigators illegally seized 

The case also represented the “pursue this case, they’re going who choose instead to obstruct urine samples and records from 
Associated Press 

culmination of the federal inves-to have to do more homework justice.” 104 players in 2004. 
SAN FRANCISCO — A federal tigation into the Bay Area than they did.” Now 46, Bonds set baseball’s Separately, Novitzky has jury convicted Barry Bonds of a Laboratory Co-Operative A juror who also gave just her career home run record with helped develop the case against single charge of obstruction of steroids ring. Federal prosecu-first name, Amber, said that the 762 while playing for the former star pitcher Roger justice Wednesday but failed to tors and the Justice Department final votes were 8-4 to acquit Pittsburgh Pirates and San Clemens, who is scheduled to reach a verdict on the three will have to decide whether to Bonds of lying about steroids Francisco Giants from 1986-stand trial in July for lying to counts at the heart of allega-retry Bonds on the unresolved and 9-3 to acquit him on lying 2007. The jury met less than Congress by denying he used tions that he knowingly used counts. about HGH use. The panel voted two miles from the ballpark performance-enhancing drugs. steroids and human growth hor-The counts that the jury could 11-1 to convict him of getting an where the seven-time NL MVP Novitzky also is a key player in mone and lied to a grand jury not resolve accused of Bonds of injection from someone other played for his last 15 years. the federal doping investigation about it. lying to the grand jury investi-than his doctor, with one woman Bonds was indicted on Nov. of pro cyclists, including seven-
Following a 12-day trial and gating BALCO in 2003 when he holding out, she said. 15, 2007, exactly 50 days after time Tour de France winner almost four full days of delibera-said he never knowingly took The so-called needle count taking his final big league swing Lance Armstrong. Rep. Jack tion, the jury of eight women steroids or HGH, and when he accused Bonds of lying when he and 100 after topping Hank Kingston, a Georgia Republican, and four men could reach a said he was never injected by said that no one other than his Aaron’s career home run mark recently suggested that the fed-unanimous verdict only on one anyone except his doctors. doctors injected him with any-of 755. He also set the season eral agent is motivated by a of the four counts against The maximum sentence for thing. His personal shopper, record with 73 home runs in desire to bring down a celebrity. Bonds. U.S. District Judge Susan the obstruction of justice count Illston declared a mistrial on the is 10 years in prison, but federal others, a messy end to a case guidelines called for 15-21 that put the slugger — and months. For similar offenses in baseball itself — under a cloud the BALCO case, Illston sen-of suspicion for more than three tenced cyclist Tammy Thomas to years. six months of home confinement 
Bonds sat stone-faced through and track coach Trevor Graham the verdict, displaying no emo-to one year of home confine­tion. His legal team immediately ment. asked that the guilty verdict be Bonds walked out of the court-thrown out and Illston did not house with his lawyers, who rule on the request. She set May instructed him not to comment 20 for a hearing in the case. because they said the case isn’t 



Thursday, April 14, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Irish freshman pitcher Laura Winter winds up Wednesday against Loyola. Her nine strikeouts con-
Fitzgerald 
continued from page 20 
State’s top doubles combina­tion and the No. 12-ranked pair in the country, 8-6, in the most impressive win of the day for the Irish. 
“[Talmadge and Fitzgerald] played really well,” Sachire said. “They had to come out competitively and they did. They broke the serve in the first game and went up 1-0. It was the only break of the match. At No. 1, you don’t get too many opportunities and you have to take advantage of them when you do get them. It was a really good win for them.” 
The Irish added two singles victories on the afternoon, most notably at the No. 3 sin­gles position, where senior Dan Stahl defeated freshman Ille Van Engelen, 6-3, 6-2. On paper it was the most evenly matched contest of the day, with Stahl ranked No. 99 nationally and Van Engelen only 13 spots behind him at No. 112. 
“Stahl has been great for us all season,” Sachire said. “He’s playing really well right now. It’s one of those things where none of us are surprised [by his success]. It’s a tribute to his work ethic and attitude. He’s a really good tennis player and I’m happy to see him succeed.” 
The Irish will have another 10-day break before facing Big East rival Louisville on the road in the regular season finale on April 23. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
tributed to the Irish 8-0 win. 
Fleury 
continued from page 20 
in a hole, and each inning we kept applying pressure and adding runs.” 
Fleury had three RBIs on the game for the second time this season. Senior captain Heather Johnson extended her hitting streak to 18 games with an RBI in the first inning. 
Freshman pitcher Laura Winter struck out nine batters yet still cited the offense as the strongest aspect of the team’s play. 
“We really came out strong offensively and crushed any hope they had of beating us,” freshman pitcher Laura Winter said. 
Pinch-hitting specifically was mentioned as the biggest fac­tor in the game by both Winters and Maldonado. 
“The big plays came from our pinch hitters this game,” Winters said. “Everyone who got the chance made the most of it and put some hard grounders and line drives in play.” 
“We had an inning full of pinch hitters who found a way to produce a run,” Maldonado said. “It is always awesome to see players come off the bench and pull through for the team.” 
This decisive victory was especially important to the Irish as they had lost in years past against Loyola and were playing with a chip on their shoulder. In 2010 the Ramblers defeated the Irish in five innings with the same mercy rule score, 8-0. 
“After losing to them twice in the past year, it was about time we showed them how 


Roster 
continued from page 20 
tournament time comes.” 
Saint Mary’s entire roster will travel to Marshall, Mich., to compete against fellow MIAA squads. Hamilton said he is pleased with how the freshmen have been perform­ing and is excited to see how they score Thursday. 
“Our freshmen, Doyle O’Brien and Marin Beagley, have been very consistent for young players,” he said. “Doyle kept us in the first round in Texas by leading the team scoring in some horrible 
weather. Marin Claire and No. 
“At the end of the day, 
just keeps get-11 Illinois 
all I am looking to do
ting better Wesleyan in every week and is my best. Whether the Illinois her scores are Wesleyan
that lives up to other
about to go University 
people’s expectations 
from good to Spring Fling great in the is out of my control.” this weekend. next two “This is a big weeks.” week for us. 
Mary Kate Boyce 
With such a The MIAA 
Belles senior
team NCAA
young traveling, lead­ership is key. As two of Saint Mary’s top golfers, seniors Mary Kate Boyce and Rosie O’Connor are expected to lead the Belles by example. 
Hamilton said Boyce is her biggest critic and that she is capable of performing well under pressure. 
“Mary Kate and Rosie O’Connor have both elevated their game to the level it needs to be for us to contend great of a team we really are,” junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said. 
The Ramblers had more errors than hits in the game, with four and three respective­ly. 
The Irish look to continue this winning streak and chan­nel their positive energy in their next games and the rest of the season as a whole. 
“We have had our ups and downs but right now when we really need it we are beginning to hit our stride,” said Winters. “The rest of the season will be very exciting.” 
The Irish will host a Big East conference three game series this weekend against Louisville, with games played Saturday at 12 and 2 p.m. and Sunday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 
for the NCAA title,” Hamilton said. “No one expects more from Mary Kate than she expects from herself. She has laid the groundwork to become the best player in [Division III] and we are work­ing on peaking at the right time.” 
Boyce said she does not allow others’ expectations to distract her from playing well. 
“At the end of the day, all I am looking to do is my best,” Boyce said. “Whether that lives up to other people’s expectations is out of my con­trol.” 
If the Belles win Thursday, they will face No. 1 DePauw, 
No. 3 
Wisconsin-Eau 
Qualifier at 
Olivet will be a good challenge. The Medalist is a tough golf course and our main competition, Olivet, is playing well,” Hamilton said. “We are looking to go there and just play a solid round and accept the results.” 
The Belles will take the course and begin the MIAA NCAA qualifier Thursday. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 14, 2011 
Field 
continued from page 20 
field, where he would shoot from one corner to a goal in the opposite corner. He rushed home from school every day to work on speed and accuracy — and a few garages. 
“There are more holes [in my garage] than there is garage,” Rogers said. “I hit my neigh­bor’s house and garage a few times. I broke at least one win­dow of my house. I hit the crossbar and it came flying back on me and shattered my parents’ new windows in the back room.” 
In sixth grade Rogers started playing for his middle school, and began enjoying the game. His parents decided to send him to Holy Trinity for lacrosse, where he played on the varsity team for four years. His success in high school earned him a spot on the Long Island Empire team, which allowed him to showcase his talents in front of college coaches, including Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. 
Rogers said he is beyond sat­isfied with his college decision, and he is thankful for all of the support he receives from the University. 
“School’s definitely difficult. It’s obviously a lot harder being an athlete with all the time you have to devote, but the school does a great job giving you the resources you need to suc­ceed,” he said. “Some kids are just brilliant, so it’s easy for them. The school and the ath­letic department make it easier to succeed.” 
Yet Rogers’ academic success is not just due to the athletic department. Rogers was a fre­quent champion of the flash­card game “Around the World” in his third grade class. Many of his teammates wondered whether he needed any other education after they witnessed his mental math skills in action. 
“Freshman year [my team­mates] asked a question, and I answered it quickly. I’m just good at it,” Rogers said. “Now my teammates love to ask me questions. It’ll be a ridiculous question that I don’t know the answer to, and they’ll watch me struggle with it.” 
Rogers’ experience as a member of the lacrosse team has been outstanding particu­larly because of the friendships he has with his teammates and the quality time they spend together. During the playoffs last season, the team stayed in Sorin Hall without any work or classes. 
“We were basically profes­sional athletes. We woke up every day, had breakfast and were off the rest of the day,” Rogers said. 
One memory from the team’s stay in Sorin stands out to Rogers. 
“[Sophomore midfielder] Tyler Kimball was in the show­er late at night. My room was next to the shower, so I walked in, grabbed his towel. I knew he didn’t have a lot of patience. Out of fear for my own being, I locked the door,” he said. “Because kids were moving out, there was all this furniture in the halls. I piled it up in front of the entrances. I was watch­ing from my room, and eventu­ally he started shaking things and climbed out. [Sophomore midfielder] Steve Murphy was laughing when he came out, and Ty thought it was him. Everyone talked about it for a while, and I was just quietly laughing to myself.” 
Rogers hesitated to tell the story, fearing that Kimball might find out who set him up. 
“[To this day], I don’t think he knows it was me,” he said. 
Rogers recognizes an obvious difference between playing lacrosse for Notre Dame and playing lacrosse for any other school. 
“What makes our team spe­cial is that we genuinely care about one another. Between playing and living with these guys, I spend close to 40 hours a week with them exclusively,” Rogers said. “All the things we’ve gone through together, just being in college and expe­riencing college, we all get along really well. There’s not one guy on the team that I don’t like. [On] other teams, there’s not the same cama­raderie as there is here.” 
With expectations of an excit­ing postseason and a memo­rable senior season ahead, Rogers said he will never take for granted the teammates he has on this Irish roster. 
“They are some of the most unique people I’ve ever met in my life. I feel safe saying I’m closer to them than some of my friends from home who I’ve known my whole life,” he said. “These guys will be my friends for the remainder of my life.” 

Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

NHL 

Third-period goals propel Penguins 
booing the lack of a penalty tion. Asham’s first attempt to 
Associated Press 

call, Penguins forward James wrap in the puck failed, but 
PITTSBURGH — Alex Neal got the puck at the left he converted on a second Kovalev and Arron Asham point and fed Kovalev, who chance by flipping the puck scored third-period goals 18 one-timed a shot shortly after into the open left side. seconds apart and Marc -he got back up. With much of the focus on Andre Fleury stopped 32 With the arena still the Lightning’s offensive stars shots to lead the Pittsburgh buzzing, Asham doubled the — Stamkos, Vincent Penguins to a 3-0 victory over lead with an end-to-end rush. Lecavalier and Martin St. the Tampa Bay Lightning in Carrying the puck up the Louis — and the Penguins the first-round playoff opener right wing, Asham faked a playing without Sidney on Wednesday night. shot before cutting around Crosby and Evgeni Malkin, 
Chris Kunitz sealed the win the net to draw goalie the goalies stole the spot ­with an empty-net goal in the Dwayne Roloson out of posi-light. 
final minute in the Penguins’ first postseason game in their new arena. Brooks Orpik, who had two assists, opened the game with a heavy and clean check on Lightning star Steven Stamkos. 
Fleury made spectacular saves — including a blind stop on former Penguins for­ward Ryan Malone in the first period — and shut down the Lightning ’s high -powered offense. Fleury earned his fifth playoff shutout, one short of tying Tom Barrasso’s franchise record. 
The Lightning were held scoreless following a regular season in which they finished second in the Eastern Conference with 247 goals. Fifth-seeded Tampa Bay is in the playoffs for the first time since 2007. 
The fourth-seeded Penguins seized the momentum by out-shooting the Lightning 18-7 in the second period, and carried it into the third in the first playoff meeting between the teams. 
Kovalev made it 1-0 at 6:05 of the third on a bit of a bro­ken play after he was tripped in the corner by Tampa Bay’s Pavel Kubina. With the crowd 


Now Open Tilted Kilt Pub & Eatery 
1032 E. University Dr. Granger, IN 
Full service menu and bar, 32 TV’s, 
All sport packages Bring in any student ID and receive 10% off your food bill 
join our text club: text tkgfans to 74422 

Thursday, April 14, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST 
 OROSCOPE 



HENRI ARNOLD
Laura McGinn 
JUMBLE
T E MATING RITUAL 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, April 14, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Teammates contribute to junior’s success 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Junior attack Sean Rogers is a busy man, and it’s all thanks to his tight-knit network of teammates and friends. They drive him to excel academical­ly, athletically and socially — and he has done so, leading the Irish to an 8-0 record. 
Rogers’ lacrosse career first began in fourth grade when his friend decided to pick up the sport. If fourth grade athletics predicted anyone’s future career in a particular sport, it was not Rogers’. 
“The team I was on was a bunch of fifth graders. I was not good. I was pretty bad to be honest with you,” Rogers said. “The first year was a struggle. I wasn’t a huge fan of it.” 
His New Hyde Park, N.Y., backyard was his practice 
see FIELD/page 18 

Team Rogers 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Irish junior attack Sean Rogers advances the ball during a game against Ohio State March 23. Rogers’ goal with 33 seconds left clinched the 8-7 Irish win. 
SMC GOLF 
Bellestryto eliminate weaknesses 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 9 Belles are adding finishing touches to their indi­vidual games and getting excited to take a shot at the MIAA NCAA qualifiers. 
Coming off of a first-place finish at the Southwestern Invitational, the Belles are working on improving their game under unfavorable weather conditions. Belles coach Mark Hamilton said the team is preparing for any weather that might present a challenge. 
“We are still working on get­ting used to being outside,” he said. “The poor weather this spring has hindered our nor­mal preparation. We are try­ing to cover all aspects of the game and make sure there are no major weaknesses when 
see ROSTER/page 17 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Notre Dame gears up for full weekend of relays 
today, as well as the Dave points for the Irish women. Hills won the hammer throw in meter this week, which is
By JOE WIRTH 

Rankin Invitational at Purdue, The Irish have 27 entries in Kentucky and is once again shorter than I typically race
Sports Writer 

starting Friday.  the Mount SAC Relays, led by  favored  to  finish  first  this  but will help get me prepared  
The Irish will only compete  sophomores Rebecca Tracy  week.  for  my  1500-meter  in  Los  
After  teaming  up  with  in the multi-event competitions  and Nevada Sorenson  on  the  Sophomore  Jeremy  Rae  Angeles next week,” Rae said.  
Indiana to defeat their border  at the Kansas Relays. Senior  women’s side.  came in first place in the 800­ The fifth annual Dave Rankin  
rivals Louisville and Kentucky  Justin Schneider and freshman  Both  women are coming off  meter  run  last  week.  This  Invitational will take place at  
in last weekend’s Louisville  Peter  Kristiansen  led  the  first place performances in last  weekend, however, he will  Purdue’s Rankin Track Friday  
Border Battle, the Irish look to  multi-event athletes by finish­ week’s  races. Tracy took first  compete in the 1500-meter  and Saturday. The field will be  
continue their success at three  ing first and second in the  in the 1500-meter  race  and  run.  made up of elite track pro- 
different events this weekend.  javelin throw last week.  Sorenson  won  the 100-meter  Before last week’s  races  in  grams  across  the  Midwest  
Notre Dame will compete in  Junior Maddie Buttinger fin- hurdles.  Louisville, Rae said he  was  including  Notre  Dame,  
the  Kansas  Relays  at  the  ished fifth in the long jump  The  men  in California  are  going to use last week’s event  Valparaiso and Purdue.  
University of Kansas and the  and sixth in the high jump last  also led by two first-place fin- as preparation for the upcom- 
Mount  SAC  Relays  in  week. She will be looking to  ishers  from  the  Louisville  ing races in California.  Contact Joe Wirth at  
California, both of which start  improve  and  earn  crucial  Border Battle. Junior Andrew  “I’ll  be  running  an  800- jwirth@nd.edu  

ND SOFTBALL 

Mercy rule seals victory 
By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish meant it when they said that they weren’t satisfied with their play Tuesday night, even though they finished their game against Loyola-Chicago 8­
0. Stopped by mercy rule in six innings, the No. 24 Irish (29-7) extended their winning streak to 12 games. 
The team dominated all areas of play, scoring prolifically and shutting out the Ramblers (15­16). The Irish jumped out to an early lead in the first inning with three quick runs. 
“We had great hitting, defense and pitching,” Irish senior infielder Katie Fleury said. “It’s hard for teams to come back when they are put 
see FLEURY/page 17 


MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish struggle against Rola, No. 2 Buckeyes 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
No. 2 Ohio State avoided No. 28 Notre Dame’s upset bid in Columbus, Ohio Wednesday in a 5-2 victory that improved the Buckeyes’ home record to a perfect 14­0. 
At No.1 singles, Ohio State freshman Blaz Rola, ranked No. 5 nationally, outlasted Irish junior Casey Watt 6-3, 6-0 in the first of four victo­ries at the singles positions for the Buckeyes. 
“[Rola] is really good,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “He’s ranked No. 5 for a reason. He earned it. He is clearly a top-10 play­er.” 
Junior Chase Buchanan defeated Notre Dame senior Stephen Havens at the No. 2 singles position, 6-1, 6-3. Buchanan is currently ranked No. 12 overall in the latest position rankings. 
Watt and Havens combined to form the No. 2 doubles team and fell to the No. 66 doubles team of Buchanan and senior Shuhai Uzawa, 8­6. 
Notre Dame’s only doubles victory came in the No. 1 duo of sophomore Spencer Talmadge and junior Niall Fitzgerald. They topped Ohio 
see FITZGERALD/page 17 





