the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Laptoptheft increases, NDSPalerts rectors 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) received reports of seven laptop thefts from resi­dence halls — mostly girls’ dorms — on campus since the end of January, according to 
an  e-mail  sent  to  rectors  
Wednesday.  
NDSP  Crime  Prevention  

Officer Keri Kei Shibata sent the e-mail asking rectors to remind students to lock doors and be aware of suspicious activity. 
“In six of these cases the thefts occurred in female resi­dence halls,” the e-mail stated. “These thefts have primarily occurred in the afternoon hours. Some of the thefts have occurred when a resident was in the room sleeping.” 
In the most recent case, NDSP reported a college-aged 
see THEFT/page 3 


Grotto to close for five days 
Observer Staff Report 
A long-range maintenance plan will force the closure of The Grotto of our Lady of Lourdes during spring break, according to a University press release. 
The University announced Wednesday that the Grotto would be closed at 8 a.m. on March 14 and would reopen at 3 p.m. March 18. During the closing, digital scanning tech­nology will create a model of the Grotto. 
“The model will be used to understand and document for historical purposes how the Grotto was built and for track­ing future maintenance and repairs, specifically its period­ic cleaning and tuck-pointing,” the press release stated. 
The Grotto sustained dam­age from a July 26 fire, 
see GROTTO/page 3 



‘Makes it real’ 
‘Loyal Daughters and Sons’ presents Notre Dame students’ true stories of sexual assault 

said the show gives a face to sex­ual assault and a voice to sur­vivors. 
“These characters are a per­son at Notre Dame,” she said. “To put a face to all of these sto­ries [shows] people that it does happen at Notre Dame, but that doesn’t mean it has to continue to happen. There are measures we can take to start preventing it.” 
Kiley said she and co-director Matt Mancini aimed for the per­formances to show solidarity with survivors of rape and sexual assault. 
“I think coming into the show we took an approach that was never taken before, and that was more a solidarity with survivors,” Kiley said. “Just to be there for the person. And I think that’s what we were kind of going with. We think that’s a more effective 
see LOYAL/page 6 



Council announces results, sanction 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The Junior Class Council and Sophomore Class Council elec­tion results were announced Wednesday night, while the Senior Class Council results will be withheld until Thursday night due to a sanction. 
Kevin Doherty will serve as junior class president and Nicholas Schilling won the posi­tion of sophomore class presi­dent. 
The Judicial Council delayed the announcement of Senior Class Council results due to a sanction against one of the tick­ets. Parker King and his running mates Ben German, Alicia Elliot and Brinya Bjork sent a cam­paign e-mail through a residence hall listserv, according to a Judicial Council press release. The student body constitution prohibits the use of listservs for campaigning. 
The Election Committee chose to invalidate eight votes cast for King’s ticket, a number that 
see ELECTION/page 4 





By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
For freshman Blair Arbuckle, becoming a cast member of “Loyal Daughters and Sons” (LDS) helped her understand the reality of sexual assault at Notre Dame. 
LDS, an annual show written, directed and performed by stu­dents, is based on Notre Dame students’ true experiences with sexual assault. 
“The play makes it real,” Arbuckle said. “And especially because these stories are true stories from past Notre Dame students or current Notre Dame students, it’s just very personal.” 
This year’s show, made up of 36 skits, runs tonight, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium at the Hesburgh Library. Kelsie Kiley, a junior and co-director of LDS, 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Campaign to “end the R-word” collects pledges page 3  Weekend events calendar page 10  Hockey: ‘A fresh start’ page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, March 3, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Laura McCrystal VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: 
Lillian Civantos AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU THREW A PARTY, WHAT WOULD THE THEME BE? 







Ellen Napoli Courtney Burdell Ryan Grojean Melanie Fritz Annie DeMott 
freshman sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Pasquerilla Cavanaugh Alumni Pangborn Cavanaugh East 
“I would throw “A foam party “A Star Trek “Pink, just like 
“DCOM.” 

a hipsters in … with bathing and Disney my bedroom!” space party.” suits and lots of princess foam.” combination party!” 

MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Students enjoy the sunny weather and newly visible grass by playing lacrosse on South Quad on Tuesday. 

OFFBEAT 
Woman survives 35-mile ride on minivan hood 
MANTECA, Calif. –— The woman desperately gripped a windshield wiper blade, her body splayed across the hood of the minivan as it raced down a Northern California freeway in the middle of the night, reaching 100 mph, witnesses said. 
Carroll, 36, was being held without bail Wednesday at the San Joaquin County Jail on charges of attempted murder, kidnapping and domestic assault, according to sheriff’s department records. 
“She kind of goes with the van to try to stop him, gets up on the hood and is hang­ing on to the wiper blade,” he said. “She obviously didn’t 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Today from 9 to 10 a.m. free body composition and blood pressure testing will be offered in the Wellness Room of the Rolfs Sports Recreation center. The assessments only take a few minutes and can provide valuable information about your health. Registration is available through RecRegister. 
The Winter Career Fair will be held today from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center. It is open to all undergraduate and grad­uate students from all majors. 
The Breen-Phillips Meal Auction will be held in LaFortune Burger King Lounge (Live Auction) and Sorin Room (Silent Auction). The auction will take place tonight from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. All proceeds go to Meals on Wheels. 
Students for Environmental Action will host a discussion panel about the aspects and implications of making cities sustainable. The discussion will take place tonight from 8 to 9 
p.m. at the Coleman-Morse Center. The discussion is open to students, faculty, and staff. Light refreshments provided. 
Tonight from 9 to 11 p.m. students can form teams of 3 to 4 and compete in the 2nd Annual Notre Dame Spelling Bee. Each team will participate in a series of timed rounds — single elimination — until one team remains. Gift Cards and prizes will be awarded to the top placing teams and to the team with the best costume. The event will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

think he would keep driving.” 
Carroll sped through Manteca, got on the freeway and didn’t pull over until he reached Pleasanton, Osborn said. 
“We went out there and talked to him for about an hour and he was obviously on some kind of drugs,” Osborn said. 
Snapping Arizona dog takes over family’s fridge 
YUMA, Ariz. — A run­away dog darted into an Arizona apartment and found a cool place to hide — the bottom of the refrigera­tor. 
A Yuma Fire Department spokesman says the family told firefighters the pooch rushed into their home when they opened the front door and kept snapping at them. 
When they went to the fridge to get some food to try to lure the dog outside, the animal jumped in the appli­ance and refused to come out. 
Firefighters found the small black terrier-type dog crouched on the bottom shelf, snapping at anyone who approached. They used protective gear to pick up the pooch and put it in a car­rier. 
The dog had been report­ed missing by someone else at the apartment complex and was returned home safely. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight FriDAY saturDAY sundAY monDAY 



Thursday, March 3, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Campaign to ‘end the R-Word’ collects pledges 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Since senior Soeren Palumbo founded “Spread the Word to End the Word,” an international campaign to end the use of the word “retard,” in 2009, he said the campaign has collected more than 170,000 Internet pledges and 10 million verbal and hand­written pledges. 
Notre Dame students con­tributed over 2,600 pledges last year alone, Palumbo said. 
Wednesday marked the third annual “End the R-Word Day,” which more than 250 universi­ties and 1,000 high schools rec­ognized around the world. Volunteers collected pledges to end the R-word on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campuses throughout the day. 
Palumbo began the campaign with Yale senior Tim Shriver and it is co-sponsored by Special Olympics and Best Buddies. 
“We’re not asking for money. We’re not asking for someone to commit volunteering time,” Palumbo said. “All we’re doing is asking someone to make that slight modification in their lan­guage.” 
In addition to limiting the use of the R-word, the campaign seeks to raise awareness about the treatment of those with intel­lectual disabilities, Palumbo said. 
“We live in a community that excludes people with intellectual disabilities,” Palumbo said. “Hopefully … just starting to think about these issues will lead to someone being more accept­ing of people with intellectual disabilities, starting to value the contributions that people with intellectual disabilities give to society.” 
Palumbo said he started “Spread the Word to End the Word” because his sister has an intellectual disability. 
“I grew up with a very first­hand experience with the stigma and discrimination that goes along with having an intellectual disability in the United States and the role that the R-word plays in that,” Palumbo said. 
Palumbo said he and Shriver developed the idea for “Spread the Word to End the Word” while working for Special Olympics in 2009. They announced the event at a youth rally in February 2009 and established March 31, 2009, as the first “End the R-Word Day,” Palumbo said. 
In the six weeks between its announcement and its inception, “Spread the Word to End the Word” expanded from five par­ticipating universities to 40 solely by word of mouth, Palumbo said. 
In its third year, “Spread the Word to End the Word” is cele­brated at schools “in every conti­nent except for Antarctica,” Palumbo said. 
Palumbo said “End the R-Word Day” is one part of a larger cam­pus campaign to raise awareness of disability issues. 
“We really want to represent this event as one of many throughout the semester engag­ing in issues of disability,” Palumbo said. “We want to pres­ent the opportunity for this to be the gateway into more involve­ment.” 
Palumbo said he hopes “Spread the Word to End the Word” would also help end bully­ing and discrimination. 
“This isn’t just a word,” Palumbo said. “It’s not just one linguistic vessel, one combination of letters. It’s more attitudes. It’s more consistent abuse and harassment of young people with intellectual disabilities. We’re trying to focus it towards that and allow the campaign, not to forget the one word, but to tran­scend the one word and grow beyond that.” 



Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


Theft 
continued from page 1 
female was going door-to-door in the residence hall asking about lost headphones around the time of the theft. The inci­dent may or may not be related to the theft, the e-mail stated. 
According to NDSP, the female was described between 20 and 22 years of age. She was black with black, shoul­der-length hair and bangs. She is between 5-foot-4 and 5-foot­7 tall and between 140 and 160 pounds. She may also have a beauty mark on her right cheek. 
NDSP asked rectors to remind residents to keep room doors locked and properly secure, especially if the resi­dents have left the room, are asleep or are otherwise occu­pied so as not to notice some­one enter the room. 
Students were advised not to let other people enter a resi­dence hall or follow them through the door to a resi­dence hall unless they are cer­tain the person lives in the dorm. 
“Ask them to wait and con­tact the person they are visit­ing to let them in,” the e-mail said. 
The e-mail also asked stu­dents and rectors to report suspicious activity to NDSP immediately. 


Grotto 
continued from page 1 
according to the press release. At the time, cleanup involved removing soot from the shrine, cleaning melted wax from the floor, repairing damaged can­dle racks and inspecting the structure for safety. 
Candles will be available for lighting and a nightly rosary will still be held while the Grotto is closed. Both will be outside the kneeling rail. 
The Grotto, constructed in 1896, is a one-seventh scale replica of a famed French shrine where in 1858 the Virgin Mary appeared to St. Bernadette on 18 separate occasions. 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 3, 2011 


Panel compares differences in religious orders 
“Formation means that we on the move. They go where 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
aim to form the whole person to they are needed and do what is 
News Writer 
be a great citizen in the world. needed. But he said their active Community is based on an lifestyle begins in contemplation. 

Each religious order of the image of a holy family,” “We begin each day with a Catholic community presents Gallagher said. “I live in Zahm long lingering look at God and unique perspectives on Hall at the University because root our agenda of the day in Catholicism to the University, we go out to create that family.” Christ. We remove the agenda panelists said at a Wednesday The cross, he said, serves as a about ourselves,” Wisdom said. night panel discussion in symbol of the order’s hope. “We root ourselves in Christ and DeBartolo Hall hosted by the “It was through a terrible bear our fruit to a world hungry Catholic Graduate Community. instrument of torture that we for Christ.” 
The panelists included repre-were saved. Our struggles, then, To support the combined goals sentatives from the Holy Cross, are not our true end,” Gallagher of contemplation and action, he Dominican, Franciscan and said. “Our true end is hope.” said, there are four pillars. Jesuit orders, as well as dioce-Fr. John Coughlin said St. Common community, common san priets. Francis had a troubadour tradi-prayer, study and ministry hold 
Fr. Andrew Downing, a Jesuit, tion of singing to maidens and up those efforts. The common said the diversity of Wednesday living the life of a prosperous actions keep them grounded in night’s audience surprised him. merchant’s son. War imprison-faith, he said. 
“I thought this would be like ment altered him. Without los-“We sing the prayers to each speed-dating. Just a bunch of ing joy, he became focused on other to remember that Christ is people interested in entering Christ, Coughlin said. also in that brother that might religious life and choosing “People were attracted to be driving you crazy,” Wisdom between us,” he said. “But I see something simple, something said. “You’re encountering that it’s people of all different humble about him. He loved someone living in the presence sorts.” creation,” Coughlin said. “Some of God.” “From that we’ve come to a priest because everything I do 
Fr. Jim Gallagher of the of them wanted to follow him.” The key emphasis of the order, reach a commitment to faith is to live out that priesthood,” 
Congregation of the Holy Cross That following led to many he said, is preaching beyond the that does justice,” he said. “If we Heintz said. “That’s the goal for began the discussion with an operative groups in the pulpit and understanding the really are to go to those that which I’m striving. “ explanation of how his order’s Franciscan order. Franciscans, groups to which they preach. need us most, we will preach While differences were high-origins have come to define its he said, do not have one voca-“We preach to different gener-the Christian faith in a way that lighted, the majority of the pan-
mission. tion. ations and need to understand does social justice for the elists’ comments focused on 
“Holy Cross came from the “We do whatever the church each. Then we can better show world.” similarities between the orders. wake of the French Revolution. needs,” Coughlin said. the world Christ coming through Msgr. Michael Heintz said the At the heart of any religious The revolution decimated the “Education and service for the us,” Wisdom said. “Even the parish, unlike many of the other light, Gallagher said, men and church and education system,” poor has a preferential option, way you walk to the pulpit com-orders, stations individuals in women commit to a common he said. “It recognized a great especially recently.” municates about what you one place. purpose. need for education in faith.” Fr. Andrew Wisdom discussed preach.” “My life will be spent always Downing said an order and its 
As time passed, the group the Dominican order. When the Downing said Jesuits are also in pastoral care in this particu-members try to follow the exam-developed a missionary purpose order was formed, he said, even called to service. Similarly, they lar station. Our work is the most ple of their founder. Anyone and expanded to Algeria, just speaking with the audience work to understand the group basic and heartbeat level of the considering religious life, he Canada, Bangladesh and other caused scandal. with which they work. church: the parish,” he said. “In said, should continuously work parts of the world, Gallagher “It was a scandal and radical “That which is more universal a sense, that is the real heart of through three questions. said. Their purpose as a mis-associating with secular people. is more divine. We go out to the church.” “How do they pray? How do sionary order was to reach and We could be contaminated,” he those who no one else can go to Heintz said, work in an indi-they work? And how do they educate those who needed guid-said. “But that’s what we were or will not go to,” he said. “Then vidual parish focuses on teach-live?” Downing said. “That’s ance in faith. called to as an order of preach-we adapt to those places to com-ing, shepherding God’s people how the different orders are dis-
He said this goal generated ers and teachers out in the municate the gospel.” and sanctifying through min-tinct, though we’re all trying to three specific components of world. “ The struggle, Downing said, istry. serve Christ.” practice that are key to Holy Wisdom said the Dominican lies in staying faithful to the “In the end, who I am and Cross: formation, community order has a monastic rhythm. gospel while balancing cultural what I do are the same thing. Contact Nicole Toczauer at and the cross. Dominicans, he said, are monks and political currents. There isn’t any moment I’m not ntoczaue@nd.edu 
garnered 56.98 percent of the vote, or 596 votes. 


Election 

The second sophomore ticket, continued from page 1 Anthony Krenselewski, received 
43.02 percent, or 450 votes. The accounts for around 10 percent of other members of his ticket were the number of rising seniors living Lizzie Helping, Jackie Picache and in the hall that received the e-mail. Alesandra Mendoza. 
Judicial Council will announce Although the process was tiring, the Senior Class Council election Krenselewski said, he had a great results tonight. time running 
Doherty and his running mates “We wish the best for Nick and for Junior Class Council, Megan them,” he said. “I’m sure they’re Rodts, Kim Neary and Nolan going to do a great job.” Welsh, won with 54.75 percent of Krenselewski said he and the the vote, or 536 votes. rest of his ticket plan to still be 
The second ticket, headed by involved in student government. Mike Weiss, earned 45.25 percent. “Hopefully some of the ideas we 443 votes were cast for him and had in place will still get done,” he Julianne Crimmins, Mike Kress said. and Sean Hannon. Schilling, a Keough resident, 
Doherty said he looks forward to said he looks forward to serving next year and being able to partici-student government with fellow pate in something he truly loves. Keough residents Doherty and stu­
“I love meeting new people, “ he dent body president-elect Pat said. “I love having a vision and McCormick. having the opportunity to put it “It’s really neat to be able to into place.” have that connection to the other 
Doherty said his main objective councils beyond just student gov-for next year is to have fun, and he ernment,” Schilling said. is glad the results reflect students’ The other tickets running for reactions to his ticket’s plans. Sophomore Class Council made 
“Throughout the whole campus the election process a great experi-I feel like people really resonated ence, Schilling said. with us when we went and talked “They were phenomenal,” he to them,” he said. “They really said. “It made all the work we did liked our ideas.” that much more important.” 
Weiss said although the election Schilling said he thinks the next process was time-consuming, it year has a lot of potential for was a great opportunity to be able Sophomore Class Council. to run. “We feel like we bring a really 
“It was really nice to get out and awesome ticket to the table,” meet the class,” he said. “And I got Schilling said. “Hopefully we will to spend a lot of time with three be able to move forward very really great people.” quickly to get things rolling for 
Schilling will lead the sopho-next year.” more class next year, along with Paul DiGiovanni, Mary Clare Rigali Contact Melissa Flanagan at and Margaret Preuss. The ticket mfanag3@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 3, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senators discuss their roles 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate discussed how to make the role of senator more effective within residence halls at its Wednesday meeting. 
A handful of senators said they have trouble relaying information to their dorm because they either do not have access to their dorms’ listservs or do not hold Hall Council meetings. 
Cavanaugh senator Tegan Chapman suggested other residence halls use Cavanaugh ’s method of hall clerks sending daily e­mails. 
“Our hall clerks have an e-mail address that they have access to,” she said. “They send out a daily e­mail to everyone in 
senator Yiting Zheng said although McGlinn meets for Hall Council, it is difficult for her to commu­nicate what she learned in Senate because Hall Council takes place on Tuesdays and Senate meets on Wednesdays. hopefully address any 

“If there’s an event that problems.” Friday, there’s no way for Knott Senator Alex me to let anyone know Kasparie said he doesn’t 
unless I stop every person I see and tell them, ” she said. 
Student body presi ­dent Catherine Soler said if senators are having any of these issues with commu­nication, they should make an attempt to work through it with their dents. 
“Say we need to be able to have a voice, ” Soler 
the dorm.” 

“If there’s an event 
Ch apman 

that Friday, there’s no 
said she is able to send way for me to let a message 
anyone know unless I
for hall 

stop every person I
clerks to include in see and tell them.” these daily e­mails. 
Yiting Zheng 
McGlinn 

McGlinn Hall senator 
“Say we need to be able to have a voice. Other dorms have these tools, how can we make it work?” 
Catherine Soler student body president 
believe the senators are currently ful­filling their intended roles. 
“I think our primary role right now is working on student gov ­ernment from 
outside the dorm, ” he said. “The senator is really removed from 
hall presi ­
said. “Other dorms have these tools, how can we make it work?” 
John Sanders, Carroll Hall senator, said it might be helpful to give dorm reports at some Senate meetings in addition to the commit ­tee reports 

already given each week. 
“Not every meeting, maybe just once a semes­ter,” he said. “We can dis­cuss the pertinent issues in our dorms at the time and the dorm right now.” 
The senators should not solely be student govern­ment members, Kasparie said. They should be stu­dent government liaisons to their individual dorms. 
Gender Issues Committee Chair Tim Castellini said the role of senators should be more clearly defined as someone who dorm mem­bers can approach with their questions. 
“I feel like there should be an emphasis put on them, almost on par with their RA,” he said. 
Campus Technology Chair Casey Cockerham agreed. 
“Senators should be more involved in the dorms,” he said. “They should be fielding requests and ques­tions from students.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 



STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


Chesley, Smith deliver State of SGA address 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Student body president Rachael Chesley and vice president Laura Smith dis­cussed their administration’s successes, setbacks and ongoing projects during their State of Student Government Association (SGA) address on Wednesday. 
“Students, it has been our sincere pleasure to have served you this past year,” Chesley said. “We confident­ly believe that our board has left its mark this year, and we look forward to the few weeks we have left ahead.” 
Chesley highlighted five goals that she and Smith sought to pursue this aca­demic school year. They set 
out to make Saint Mary ’s more appealing to students, encourage clubs to use the SGA office as a collective workspace, make Saint Mary’s a more present force in the community, make SGA more recognizable on cam­pus and make SGA board members accountable to effectively achieve more. 
Chesley and Smith noted specific initiatives they implemented in agreement with each of these goals. 
The newly-created finance committee held finance sem­inars for clubs and worked to create clarity and consis­tency in SGA finances. Under this committee, eligibility for campus programming spon­sorships and travel grants increased by $500 each and a new joint campus grant of $3,750 was available to clubs that worked collabora­tively on a campus event, Chesley said. 
The LeMans Hall Basement renovation project, funded by the SGA Capital Fund, will be completed after spring break. This project is a part of the administra ­tion ’s goal to make Saint Mary ’s more appealing to students. 
“Noticing the lack of strict­ly social spaces on campus, SGA targeted the Le Mans basement to turn into an interactive, social, and engaging space on campus that will invigorate the stu­dent body,” Smith said. 
Chesley’s administration also worked with the student governments of Holy Cross and Notre Dame to establish the Students for South Bend Discount Program. 
“While providing more affordable means for stu ­dents to support the commu­nity, it has also worked to strengthen the relationship between the students at all three institutions,” Smith said. 
The current SGA adminis­tration created a position of international commissioner to serve as a liaison between SGA and international stu­dents and a marketing com­mittee to design and main­tain the new SGA website. They also made SGA agendas and weekly minutes avail­able to students. 
Chesley and Smith dis ­cussed SGA-sponsored cam­pus events, including a breast cancer awareness fashion show from which the proceeds were donated to the Vera Bradley foundation, a “Get Caught Reading” pro­motional day for the Collegiate Readership pro­gram, the annual Pumpkin Carving Contest, the annual 
b u s  t r i p s  t o  C h i c a g o ,  
H e r i t a g e  We e k  a n d  L o v e  
Your Body Week.  

Chesley ended the address by citing lessons she learned during her term. 
“Student Government asso­ciation understands that there are ways to improve and knowledge to gain for the future,” she said. 
She then invited newly ­elected student body presi­dent Nicole Gans and vice president Jaqualyn Zupanic whose administration offi­cially begins April 1, to speak. 
Gans and Zupanic acknowledged the precedent that Chesley and Smith set through SGA’s initiatives this year. 
“Looking back on this past year, Rachael and Laura, as well as the current adminis­tration, truly have set a new standard as far as making SGA visible to the entire stu­dent body,” Zupanic said. 
“This administration has started many impressive undertakings, of which we hope to be able to see through next year.” 
Gans and Zupanic said their administration will focus on expanding SGA to include more student input and developing Saint Mary’s as a leader in diversity awareness, women’s health, community involvement and ecological consciousness, Gans said. 
“We want to be the eyes, hands and heart of the cam­pus,” Gans said. “We want each student to feel as though SGA represents her and her needs.” 
Junior Katie Ciresi attend­ed Wednesday’s SGA address due to her interest in being aware of student govern ­ment activities. 
“I was aware of many of the initiatives that they talked about, but it was good to have it summarized, reit­erated,” Ciresi said. 
“More students should have come [to the address],” Ciresi said. “A lot of students complain about things going on around campus, but you can ’t complain until you actually put effort into knowing about what’s really going on.” 
Chesley concluded the address with a message to all Saint Mary’s students. 
“The most important indi­viduals to student govern­ment are the students, ” Chesley said. “You are why student leaders work consci­entiously and earnestly each and every week. You matter, and you are the future of Saint Mary ’s. Continue to share the same love for Saint Mary’s that we do, and know that we are first and fore­most your advocates and your SMC sisters.” 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@stmarys.edu 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 3, 2011 



SMC elects SAB, SDB, RHA leaders 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Six new leaders have been elected to top positions in Saint Mary’s Student Activities Board (SAB), Student Diversity Board (SDB) and Resident Hall Associati on (RHA). 
Juniors Allie and Guadalupe Quintana will serve as president and vice president of Student Diversity Board. They said they hope to promote diversity at Saint Mary’s and teach the student body that diversity does not mean minority. 
First on their agenda is moti­vating students to get involved with the board, 

Courtney  and  “We do this because  Quintana said.  
Caitlyn Wonski have been elect­ed as president  we want everyone to love Saint Mary’s as  “We always talk about the change we  
and vice presi­ much as we do.”  want to  see  in  
dent of SAB.  the  world,”  
Courtney said they plan to continue to  Allie Courtney SAB president-elect  Quintana said, “and SDB is the perfect place to  

improve SAB events. 
“We want to increase participation in SAB events on campus and subse­quently increase the spirit for Saint Mary’s in the student body,” she said. “We really want to unite the student body through common interests in events and creating programs and events that students enjoy together.” 
They also want to improve SMC Tostal by incorporating a daytime carnival with free food. 
Courtney and Wonski also plan to reinstate SAB’s Midnight Madness, a class competition that was cancelled three years ago. 
Wonski said their first goal is planning the Belle’s Bash event for the first weekend back to school in the fall. 
“We just want to let the stu­dent body know that we are so appreciative of their support and we hope to continue improving the quality of life on campus for them,” Courtney said. “We do this because we want everyone to love Saint Mary’s as much as we do.” 
Juniors Kelly Reidenbach start. We have 
the power and 
opportunity to be the voice for those who are not so well represented or whose voice is not heard…[our job] is very rewarding.” 
Reidenbach also said they plan to organize the International Meet and Greet that will take place next semester. 
Junior Kat Nelson will serve as president of RHA, with sophomore Sarah Copi as her vice president. 
Nelson said the theme for RHA this year is “There’s No Place Like Home.” 
First on their agenda is to meet with the advisors and vice president of Residence Life at Saint Mary’s. Next, they plan to recruit board members and to create a budget for the upcoming year. 
Nelson said she and Copi plan to schedule a forum where students can come and voice their expectations for RHA next year. 
Turnover is scheduled for April 1. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@stmarys.edu 



Loyal 
continued from page 1 


route.” 

Mancini, also a junior, said LDS is especially relevant this year due to recent criticism of the University’s handling of sex­ual assault cases. 
“The student organizers and actors of Loyal Daughters and Sons are demonstrating that, in fact, sexual assault is taken very seriously at all levels and is addressed not only by the administration and NDSP, but by the students themselves,” he said. “I think the main thing we want to do is educate people. This isn’t a propaganda piece. This isn’t a politically-driven piece that has a side.” 
When current cast member Elliot Pearce, a sophomore, saw LDS last year, he said its presen­tation of various perspectives caused him to feel angry during some skits, but also made him want to get involved with the show. 
“They’re good about present­ing a lot of different opinions on things and some of them I vehe­mently disagreed with and just made me feel really sad and depressed that something like that could happen to somebody, especially at a wonderful place like this,” Pearce said. 
Pearce said acting in the show this year has caused him to think more about the issue of sexual assault. 
“And I think this year it sort of reminded me of all the feelings I had the first time I saw it,” he said. “And in a way it’s enabled me to think more deeply about it.” 
Kiley said the process of directing the show has been an emotional experience, but the range of emotions in the show is an important part of dealing with its subject matter. 
“Actually listening to the sto­ries was really difficult,” she said. “It’s presenting the gray area in sexual assault. There is no black and white. Being able to present the emotions that go into this huge realm of gray area is important.” 
LDS began in 2006 when Emily Weisbecker, an under­graduate student at the time, received a grant to conduct interviews and write the show, according to Elizabeth Moriarty, assistant director of Notre Dame’s Gender Relations Center. New writers conduct interviews and add material each year, and each year’s show has new directors and produc­ers. 
Sophomore Jessie Bretl, a current cast member, said beyond showing the reality of sexual assault, the true stories in the show are important because audience members remember details and specific stories. 
“Once you hear a detailed story … it sticks in your mind and you remember it,” Bretl said. “People are always asking what they can do to help, and this is something you can do, Educate yourself. Be aware of what’s going on. Tell you friends to be aware. Literally one per­son saying something to one person could save someone.” 
Mancini said LDS is powerful because it mixes theatricality and social awareness while remaining true to the original stories. 

“I think the biggest thing is we don’t want to tarnish the integrity of these stories,” he said. “And Kelsie and I think the theatricality we’re bringing to this production is really going to flourish.” 
Sophomore cast member Jack Hough said he auditioned for the show at the recommenda­tion of his sister, a Notre Dame graduate. But once he heard some of the script during audi­tions, he decided he wanted to help people understand the issue of sexual assault. 
“And if they go to this show, well, they have to sit around and say ‘well, who knows, it could have been one of my friends who had this story’ … and there’s a lot of mystery,” Hough said. “Everyone wants to believe that we live in a perfect little dome, but we don’t.” 

Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 3, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



Court rules funeral protests are free speech 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that a grieving father’s pain over mocking protests at his Marine son’s funeral must yield to First Amendment protections for free speech. All but one justice sided with a fundamentalist church that has stirred out­rage with raucous demonstra­tions contending God is pun­ishing the military for the nation’s tolerance of homosex­uality. 
The 8-1 decision in favor of the Westboro Baptist Church of Topeka, Kan., was the latest in a line of court rulings that, as Chief Justice John Roberts said in his opinion for the court, protects “even hurtful speech on public issues to ensure that we do not stifle public debate.” 
The decision ended a lawsuit by Albert Snyder, who sued church members for the emo­tional pain they caused by showing up at his son Matthew’s funeral. As they have at hundreds of other funerals, the Westboro mem­bers held signs with provoca­tive messages, including “Thank God for dead soldiers,” ‘’You’re Going to Hell,” ‘’God Hates the USA/Thank God for 9/11,” and one that combined the U.S. Marine Corps motto, Semper Fi, with a slur against gay men. 
Justice Samuel Alito, the lone dissenter, said Snyder wanted only to “bury his son in peace.” Instead, Alito said, the protesters “brutally attacked” Matthew Snyder to attract public attention. “Our profound national commitment to free and open debate is not a license for the vicious verbal assault that occurred in this case,” he said. 
The ruling, though, was in line with many earlier court decisions that said the First Amendment exists to protect robust debate on public issues and free expression, no matter how distasteful. A year ago, the justices struck down a fed­eral ban on videos that show graphic violence against ani­mals. In 1988, the court unan­imously overturned a verdict for the Rev. Jerry Falwell in his libel lawsuit against Hustler magazine founder Larry Flynt over a raunchy parody ad. 
What might have made this case different was that the Snyders are not celebrities or public officials but private citi­zens. Both Roberts and Alito agreed that the Snyders were the innocent victims of the long-running campaign by the church’s pastor, the Rev. Fred Phelps, and his family mem­bers who make up most of the Westboro Baptist Church. Roberts said there was no doubt the protesters added to Albert Snyder’s “already incal­culable grief.” 
But Roberts said the fre­quency of the protests — and the church’s practice of demonstrating against Catholics, Jews and many other groups — is an indica­tion that Phelps and his flock were not mounting a personal attack against Snyder but expressing deeply held views on public topics. 
Indeed, Matthew Snyder was not gay. But “Westboro believes that God is killing American soldiers as punish­ment for the nation’s sinful policies,” Roberts said. 
“Speech is powerful. It can stir people to action, move them to tears of both joy and sorrow, and — as it did here — inflict great pain. On the facts before us, we cannot react to that pain by punishing the speaker,” Roberts said. 
Snyder’s reaction, at a news conference in York, Pa.: “My first thought was, eight jus­tices don’t have the common sense God gave a goat.” He added, “We found out today we can no longer bury our dead in this country with dig­nity.” 
He said it was possible he would have to pay the Phelpses around $100,000, which they are seeking in legal fees, since he lost the lawsuit. The money would, in effect, finance more of the same activity he fought against, Snyder said. 
Margie Phelps, a daughter of the minister and a lawyer who argued the case at the Supreme Court, said she expected the outcome. “The only surprise is that Justice Alito did not feel compelled to follow his oath,” Phelps said. “We read the law. We follow the law. The only way for a different ruling is to shred the First Amendment.” 
She also offered her church’s view of the decision. “I think it’s pretty self-explanatory, but here’s the core point: the wrath of God is pouring onto this land. Rather than trying to shut us up, use your platforms to tell this nation to mourn for your sins.” 
Veterans groups reacted to the ruling with dismay. Veterans of Foreign Wars national commander Richard 
L. Eubank said, “The Westboro Baptist Church may think they have won, but the VFW will continue to support communi­ty efforts to ensure no one hears their voice, because the right to free speech does not trump a family’s right to mourn in private.” 
The picketers obeyed police instructions and stood about 1,000 feet from the Catholic church in Westminster, Md., where the funeral took place in March of 2006. 
The protesters drew count-er-demonstrators, as well as media coverage and a heavy police presence to maintain order. The result was a specta­cle that led to altering the route of the funeral proces­sion. 
Several weeks later, Albert Snyder was surfing the Internet for tributes to his son from other soldiers and strangers when he came upon a poem on the church’s web­site that assailed Matthew’s parents for the way they brought up their son. 

Soon after, Snyder filed a lawsuit accusing the Phelpses of intentionally inflicting emo­tional distress. He won $11 million at trial, later reduced by a judge to $5 million. 
The federal appeals court in Richmond, Va., threw out the verdict and said the Constitution shielded the church members from liability. The Supreme Court agreed. 
Forty-eight states, 42 U.S. senators and veterans groups had sided with Snyder, asking the court to shield funerals from the Phelps family’s “psy­chological terrorism.” 
While distancing themselves from the church’s message, media organizations, including The Associated Press, urged the court to side with the Phelps family because of con­cerns that a victory for Snyder could erode speech rights. 
Roberts described the court’s holding as narrow, and in a separate opinion Justice Stephen Breyer suggested that in other circumstances gov­ernments would not be “pow­erless to provide private indi­viduals with necessary protec­tion.” 
But in this case, Breyer said, it would be wrong to “punish Westboro for seeking to com­municate its views on matters of public concern.” 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, March 3, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The Duke of Baseball 
After my first column two months ago, a hero of mine and former sports editor of the Los Angeles Times com­plimented me for my effort. 
That made my day/month/year. The columnist whose work I have read for the past few years just outside of Los Angeles praised my cre­ativity, yet he asked me to promise to never fill this space about myself 

Andrew 
again. I crossed 
Gastelum 
my heart and hoped to die. Sports 
But please 

Production 
excuse me now; 
Editor 

this is something I must do once more. It’s personal, because I owe so much to a person I never met: The Silver Fox, the Duke of Flatbush, No. 4, one of the greatest center fielders to play the game. Shame on you for not knowing who he is. If you are a baseball fan, then you know Duke Snider. 
If you don’t recognize the name then join the club, because he is baseball’s most underrated player. Ever. 
You probably have heard of Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays. Back in the heyday of baseball, Mantle played for the super-Yankees, Mays for the potent Giants and then there was Snider, the man always overshadowed by the former two, captaining the Boys of Summer (Brooklyn Dodgers). 
All took their place in center field, all hit their prime at the same time, all put up incredible numbers, but all played in New York. Snider was the one always left out. Yet he is the only player to hit four home runs in two separate World Series. And along with the Great Bambino, Snider is the only player to smash over 40 homers five years in a row — without the help of steroids. He even was the only player of the famous Manhattan trifecta with over 1,000 RBIs in the 1950’s, the aforementioned heyday. The 8-time All Star never had the fame of Mantle and Mays, but he definitely had the numbers. Yet he is still overlooked by baseball fans everywhere, even the Dodgers faithful. 
That has to change. 

Without Duke, I am not a sports fan. My number one team has and always will be the Dodgers, and without his prowess the move from Brooklyn to Los Angeles probably doesn’t happen. That erases my fondest childhood memories. Scrap Santa Claus. When Dad came home on a Thursday night with tickets in his hand, I went nuts. Walking up the hill to Chavez Ravine, enjoying the cool breeze and watching the team I would die for is something in itself, all while No. 4’s plaque hung proudly from the outfield. I am home­sick just thinking about it. My fondest memories, obliterated without Duke. Shame on me for realizing after his recent passing, but now I know. This piece really could go on forever, but, sadly, I can hear the editors playing their Oscars music. 
I know the number of I’s here may displease you, Mr. Dwyre, but I could-n’t let this one go. 
Thanks Duke. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

Notre Dame, Hike, Hike, Hike 
I don’t know if you read the paper the other day, but once again tuition rates at our fine school have gone up 
3.8 percent, or more simply it is now $2,180 more expensive to get the same education you bought last year. This is a downward trend from a 5.9 per­cent increase in 2008-09, and 4.4 percent increase in 2009-10. In fact, the price of my senior year is 

Mark Easley 
going to be 13.1 percent more 
Elephant in 
expensive than 
the Room 
the price of my freshman year, a net increase totaling $6,125. If I were to pay the freshman year rate, my total tuition with on-campus living would be $186,720. With the increas­es over time, I actually pay $199,085, a total increase of $12,365 over four years. Taking into account an annual inflation rate of 1 to 2 percent in recent years, this is a vast overcharge for what is supposed to be a non-prof­it institution. 
The truth of the matter is it is not totally Notre Dame’s fault. It’s not Jenkins fault or anyone that works in Dome. This is a problem that is plagu­ing all institutions of higher learning but especially the top tier private col­leges and universities. There is a cul­ture that has existed for some time where if you raise in the price five percent every year, people will still pay it because of the perceived value of a college degree in our culture. They have an inelastic market that allows them to set the price and peo­ple will continue to pay just like smok­ers who don’t have as much choice as others on whether to buy cigarettes. 

There is also a real lack of trans­parency on where our money is going. A private institution does not have to disclose such information, but undoubtedly there is probably waste and corruption that goes on behind those closed doors, despite the University’s commitment to cutting back. Which brings up another ques­tion: if the University is making broad cuts across the board, why is tuition going up? Only God and Jenkins knows. 
There are also other factors at work. The debt game is a big player in what is enabling this cash cow for universities. It is very easy to obtain student loans especially through the government. The problem is that kids wind up with high debt after gradua­tion even though they may not have studied a major that leads to a career, let alone a lucrative one. I understand we want kids of all backgrounds, the best of the best, regardless of finan­cial constraints to attend our top uni­versities, but we are actually reaching a point where the price is so high that you are not doing them a favor by put­ting them into so much debt. It doesn’t help much either if they decide to invest the time and money to attend school and not learn something useful that they can take to the real world. 
There needs to be some kind of reform to control this problem. Implementing a voucher system where I can take my parent’s state university taxes and put it toward paying for the college of my choice would be a posi­tive improvement. 
Reform in the college loan process that takes into account what you are studying, would not only vastly improve debt rates, but would filter more students into the sciences and engineering disciplines, studies that lead to high growth jobs and careers. top-20 caliber private institutions should look at using their vast endow­ments to subsidize the tuition of cur­rent students. 
There is no greater good than an educated youth, and no greater waste than a wasted mind. Smarter beings than myself will think of a solution, but we need to implement it soon, because the problem is only get bigger every year. Compound 5 percent a year every year until you have col­lege-age children and you will wonder if attending college is really worth it, something we want to discourage for the sake of future generations. 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Revive the organ 
I would like to sincerely thank Suzanna Pratt for her photo essay on the organs housed in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center (“Keying In: The Reyes Organ and Choral Hall,” March 1). The organs, especially the Fritts organ, are absolutely mag­nificent instruments that are so easily overlooked. Being an organist myself, I know firsthand how much the art of the organ is dying out. Churches all over the country and the world are tearing out their organs because of financial issues (they are very expensive to maintain), wanting more contem­porary music, or simply that their organists are literally dying out. Ask anyone on the street (or in our case, quad) to describe an organist and they will most likely tell you that they think of a little, old, blue-haired lady hunched over the bench plunking out each hymn. There are so few young organists, which to me is a horrible shame. Notre Dame only has a small number of undergrad organists, let alone organ majors. So I ask all of you to go at least once in your career here at Notre Dame and attend an organ concert at DPAC. Sitting and looking at the magnificent woodwork while listening to the shear power of the sound that is produced from the Fritts organ is sure to give anyone a new appreciation for a dying art. And to all of my fel­low organists, I ask you to keep up the good work and thank you for your dedication. I especially want to extend a thank you to Prof. Cramer for his enthusiasm, dedication, and direc­tion to all of us who have had the honor of studying with him. 
Sarah Schubert 
junior 
Walsh Hall 
Mar. 2 
POLL OF THE WEEK 
What are your plans for SpringBreak? 
I'm going home 
Somewhere warms and sunny with friends Going on a service trip Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Poets are shameless with their experiences: they exploit them.” 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 3, 2011 page 9 
Could you give it away? 
Guess what is extra-late this year, but will be here in six days? No, not Spring, silly; that’s still more than two weeks away … if we’re lucky. Mar, 9, Ash Wednesday, begins one of my favorite (call me crazy) times of the year: Lent. I Kate Barrett think I enjoy Lent 
Faithpoint 
each year because of its stripped-down, no-nonsense, focus-on-the-basics sensibilities. It feels to me like a season that knows its own purpose, that refuses to be sidetracked by unnecessary diver­sions from the reason for its existence: the opportunity to prepare us all for Easter, for celebrating the reason for our exis­tence. 
I have a friend who, for Lent one year, gave away one thing each day. He exam­ined his material goods and then, every day of Lent, let go of something. Now think about it: this may be easy for the first week or so. Extra pair of pants, be gone; those never-worn shoes, out the door with you. After a bit, however, it seems that my friend’s Lenten discipline would become more rather than less diffi­cult to maintain. It’s not like giving up, say, coffee, in which (after the headaches go away) you just sort of get used to its temporary absence. By the time you get into the final couple weeks of Lent you would certainly have exhausted your sup­ply of that which you don’t mind giving away, and your gifts (which are now, unlike that temporarily missing cup of cof­fee, permanently gone) will be hitting a lit­tle closer to home. 
It strikes me, though, that for the very reason that giving your stuff away would get harder and harder, it’s a great metaphor for how to spend Lent. Shouldn’t we all strive to keep stripping away what separates our hearts from God’s love as we approach Jesus’ death and transforming resurrection? Maybe I can feel just as secure with seven pairs of pants as with eight, or with one fewer pair of shoes, but when the “extras” are gone, and I’m looking at items I’d really, really like to hang on to, does it then become time to skip a day of giving? Whatever we wrap around us, literally or figuratively, that makes us feel safe, or cool, or power­ful, or smart, or daring, can also be the very thing that holds us back from facing just our plain-old-unadorned-possibly­even-inadequate selves. This same “stuff” can become our reason for neglecting our relationship with God, because in the little corners of our lives where the stuff isn’t, we know that God may be waiting, calling us to unwrap these layers of protection. Do we look to accumulate possessions, or prestige, or popularity, or expertise in a certain area, out of concern for (or pride about) what others think of us? Isn’t it surprisingly easy to be more concerned about our appearance to others than about our real, unadorned, unprotected selves that God knows and loves so well? 

At what point do we recoil from what Christ calls us to “give up” in order to fol­low him with all our heart? It’s probably not at the point where we meet chocolate, or beer, or TV or video games, though giv­ing any of those up for Lent may help us to realize areas where our priorities might be misplaced. 
We strip down in a lot of ways during Lent – our churches and chapels look bare and the music of our worship becomes more solemn and stark; we give things up and try to spend more time in prayer; we may eat more simply, in order to donate the overflow of our food budget to the hungry. Perhaps our stripping down and giving up, however, needs to be directly focused at how we can hear more clearly God’s intentions for our lives. As you con­sider the possibilities for the promises you might make this Lent, think about how each of the traditional Lenten disciplines, prayer, fasting and almsgiving, might truly help you follow the path of Christ to the God who loves you. What do you place in the way of that relationship? Could you give a little of it away each day? 
Forty days isn’t such a long time. For many of us, finding forty things to give away wouldn’t even force us to dip too deeply into our favored possessions. These next forty days, however, could be powerful, transforming ones if we allow ourselves to become ourselves – without quite so many of the layers of security we usually carry with us for the sake of appearance. Our mothers were right when they told us, “Just be yourself!” 
God loves us and will bless us; we just have to be ourselves. Lent might just be the perfect time to practice. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Don’t assume 
Holden (“Non-athlete shirts,” Mar. 1) and Alex (“Prejudice runs deeper,” Mar. 2), 
I appreciate your opinions, and you have both hit on major points in regards to the purpose of our shirt. The “IRISH Non-Athlete” t-shirt was created by Wabruda in direct response to many of the encoun­ters that we as black males have had on this campus. While pseudo-justifications can be formulated in order to give “reason” to make premature assumptions, the fact of the matter remains that this is not the type of mindset that we should have as intellectuals. While Notre Dame is highly regarded as a sports hub, that idea should not over­shadow the fact that we remain one of the leading academic institu­tions in the country. To assume someone’s identity without any prior knowledge of them goes against the inherent intellectual reputation that our school should stand for. This goes beyond labeling black males at Notre Dame athletes. The term student-athlete has been so watered down over the years that the two terms are hardly used in the same sentence anymore. 
This is the problem we face. As hard as it may be for some to believe, intelligence is indeed colorblind. We are all individuals with our own accounts to share. At the end of the day, there is nothing wrong with being an athlete, but there is something wrong with mak­ing assumptions that take away the story that someone has to offer to the world. 
Patrick Mathews 
sophomore Keenan Hall Mar. 2 

Thank you, anonymous boy 
Tuesday evening, I experienced a random act of kindness. Trying to join a friend to eat at the North Dining Hall, I accidentally brought an expired CoEx meal ticket. Preparing to sadly part ways with my friend, a guy who was leaving the dining hall overheard my dilemma and kindly gave up one of his meal swipes for me. In shock, I did not even think to thank this stranger for his unnecessary act until he was walking away. I'm embarrassed that I didn't react sooner and give him the thanks he deserves. I haven't been able to stop thinking about the incident since. It reminded me how much one random act of kindness can shed some light and change one’s perspective. You never know when someone is in need of a sign of compassion to make it through the day. Especially with the upcoming Facebook event of “A Day of Peace,” we all need a little reminder to pay it for­ward and spread some hope. So thank you again, anonymous boy, for your thoughtfulness that made my day. Pass it on. 
Claire Creely 
freshman McCandless Hall Mar. 1 

MRS degree is alive and well 
As someone with friends coming from a long line of women who earned, and were awarded, the prestigious MRS degree from the University of Notre Dame, I am offended by the comments made in the Viewpoint “Anti-MRS Degree” by a woman of Saint Mary’s. I respectfully disagree that there is no longer a MRS degree. In fact, the top reason for my choosing to attend Notre Dame was the 54/46 per­cent ratio (according to US News and World Report) of men to women, and definitely not that I would receive superior education and develop a compre­hensive business network upon graduation. I applied because the ratio increases the chances of earning an MRS degree. Now, as a woman of Notre Dame accepted on my own merit, I am indignant to the statement that no MRS degree exists. Without an MRS degree available, I, and many of my female peers, would not continue to subject ourselves to the grueling coursework, and hurtful comments about Notre Dame girls being ugly and prude if there were not some other benefit. The only reason I go to class, or even shave my legs in the winter, is to find a nice, smart Notre Dame man to make me his wife. There is such a thing as an MRS degree. If you go to Saint Mary’s, you are clearly going about earning it the wrong way –– Notre Dame obviously accepts men and women. So, I beg of you, why would I want a job when I can find a man to take care of me? What kind of job can you even get as a woman with a major in IT Management, like the one I am pursuing? Men make more money than women in the same job position anyway, so why try? You know this is true; it is also the reason I never leave my room without make-up or in sweats. You know what, Notre Dame men? Give me an MRS degree. I’ll make you a sandwich, and I’ll make it happily. 
Melissa Wagner 
junior 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Mar. 1 

Let’s be fair 
In a conversation with his girlfriend in “The Social Network,” Mark Zuckerberg sums up the opinion held by many Notre Dame students: “You don’t have to study because you go to BU” (sub­stitute Saint Mary’s here for Boston University). Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s relations have seeming­ly always been strained, and mostly because of condescending remarks and attitudes like these from Notre Dame students. The recently addressed stereotype of the “MRS degree” does not help Saint Mary’s students feel less slighted, and neither does the assumption that Saint Mary’s girls are not challenged academically. It’s called higher learning for a reason, and it is unfair for us to believe that substandard scholar­ship exists across the street. 
However, I believe there is another side to this debate. Saint Mary’s students often do Domers an injustice when responding to unfairly derogatory remarks; they equate the two schools. Notre Dame students have performed simply extraordi­nary feats in academics, community service, ath­letics and other areas to get into this premier university, and we continue to do so in our work here. Please understand that I am not slighting the intelligence or effort of our sister school to the west; rather, I am doing the opposite. 
Saint Mary’s is ranked the No. 93 National Liberal Arts College by the US News and World Report, a truly noteworthy recognition befitting a fine school. But at the same time, that same publi­cation ranks the University of Notre Dame as the No. 19 National University. You would not say that the Illinois Fighting Illini, a highly regarded bas­ketball team, is on the same level as the Chicago Bulls. Players on each team work their hearts out every day: shooting, conditioning, lifting weights and watching film. 
Each team is well-respected in its own right, with greatly talented players. They’re just in dif­ferent leagues. 
Andrew Moser 
junior 
Keenan Hall 
Mar. 2 


The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Thursday, March 3, 2011 
Poker Tournament  The Bloomington Six Comedy  Collegiate Jazz Festival Men’s Lacrosse vs. Drexel  
Legends Tour  Washington Hall Loftus Sports Center 
Midnight Midway Tavern, 810 W. 4th St. 7 to 11 p.m. 1 to 3 p.m. 
Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID  9 to 10:30 pm Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID, $5  $5 adult, $3 youth/senior  
Cover: $5  general public at LaFortune Box  
Las Vegas has come to Legends  Office  Come support Notre Dame as it  
for the night. Reportedly the most  Up and coming comics from around  takes on Drexel. The Irish are rid- 
authentic poker tournament in  Indiana are converging in South Bend  Be classy and head to Washington  ing a two-game winning streak and  
town, the nightclub is opening its  for a night of comedy. Performers  Hall for a night of smooth jazz. Hear  hope to continue their drive. If the  
doors to beginners and experts  include Ben Moore, Mat Alano, Josh  college bands from schools across  sun continues to shine and the  
alike. Show up with your best poker  Cocks, Stephanie Lochbihler, Tom  the Midwest. Experience the Jazz  game happens outdoors, head to  
face. Card counting not allowed.  Brady and Jon Hancuff. Head down  Age at Notre Dame. Flapper dresses  Arlotta Stadium.  
for a night of fun.  optional.  
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu  


Sunday evening marked the great­est night of the year—probably not for you, but certainly for me. Oscar Sunday is the evening when the joy of Christmas, the patriotism of Independence Day and the egocentricity of my birthday all come together in one glorious event. Hollywood drops a couple Stephanie DePrez million on a party(s) and Scene Writer pats itself on the back for four hours. Most people find watching the Oscar telecast tedious or irrelevant. But I think it’s necessary — nay, essential — for any self-respecting movie-goer to pay attention to the Oscars. The Oscars are the Grand Poobah of the entertainment circuit. Everyone in Hollywood cares, and everyone watches. If you want to take the temperature of entertain­ment media, you have to look at who and what they honor. This means plopping down in front of your TV the last Sunday in February and getting your front row seat to the telecast that never fails to disappoint, from  the hosts’ performances to the star walking away with a statue. (Have you ever noticed that no matter how many of your guesses are right, you still feel someone was snubbed?) You may be wondering why I care so much about an awards show that is basically four hours of talking about movies without actually show­ing any. This is a point worth making: If someone loves movies, why bother with an event that tells you how valid your opinion is? My favorite movie of the year was “True Grit.” It was fab­ulously done. Simple, delicate, pow­erful and slay-me-in-the-aisles funny. It was massively ignored (even the orchestral score, which was com­posed by Carter Burwell, the Grand Poobah of my heart). I liked “The King’s Speech.” I thought it was swell. I recommend it to anyone. But I don’t need 6,000 Hollywood voters to tell me I’m wrong to think Hailee Stanfield could eat Colin Firth for breakfast. But I digress. So why bother with the Academy? Movies are the storytelling medium of our age. I’m not talking only about those that hit the theatres, swarm our Netflix and end up on our room­mates’ DVD shelves. I’m talking about any motion picture narrative. This includes television, YouTube and the video message you just left on  your brother’s Facebook wall. We have begun to communicate primari­ly through snippets of words that convey our mood, location and mes­sage via text, Twitter and status update. Since words are so simple and so available, the more elaborate video-update has followed suit. Nowadays, we don’t just tell people stories, we show them. Two weeks ago, in addition to incit­ing a riot to convince fans to raise enough money to buy the rights to “Firefly,” Nathan Fillion told Entertainment Weekly, “We’re the most story-literate society the world has ever seen.” Does this mean we have read/watched/seen more stories than any other generation? I don’t think so. I think it means that we know how a story goes — or can go — better than any other generation. We know how to take a moment and characterize it, match it up to our day and spread it around to our community in mere seconds. We have so much access to so many different visual narrative forms (Funny or Die, TV webisodes, The Onion Online) that we no longer need to categorize “movies” as “those beastly events that cost three times more than my tuition.” Now, “movies” happen on your digital camera. Which has become your phone. Filmmaking is  hardly reserved for the film majors. My friend Eileen can kick my butt in the editing room, and she’s majoring in political science. Which brings us back to the Oscars. The fact remains that Hollywood did it first and still sets the curve. Funny or Die would have nothing if it didn’t draw on our visual narrative expec­tations as dictated by major motion pictures. My friend showed me a series of movies with little kids acting out all the Best Picture nominees on AOL. It was hilarious, but only because I had seen the movies beforehand. Hollywood sets the precedent that eventually trickles down into our hands-on video shar­ing. So why watch the Academy dole out golden fodder for the celebrity media wheel? Because it is the first place to learn what you will be imi­tating with your iPhone. I may think “True Grit” was tops, but next week’s viral video will be tipping its hat to World War II era England before post-Civil War America. That is the power of the Oscars. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu  

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, March 3, 2011 page 11 

We can all identify the people on campus who, by comparison, immediately make us feel better about our own lives. Whether these people are exhibiting offensive party behavior, running to a test a half-hour 
Troy Mathew 
late or pulling con­sistent all-nighters, 

Scene Writer 
their bad decisions make us put our own messiness in perspective. Celebrity train wrecks exemplify this purpose a thousand times over. With paparazzi constantly on their tails, every shameless aspect of their lives is broadcast to the gen­eral public. Through erratic inter­views, embar­rassment tele­vised world­wide and gener­al idiocy, the fol­lowing celebrities will make any of your questionable behavior seem about as wild as a four year old’s birth­day party. 
Charlie Sheen 

Sheen is the star of “Two and a Half Men,” somehow the highest-rated comedy on cable. For some rea­son, CBS offered Sheen a contract extension on the show, worth $2 million per episode. He receives an obscene amount of money in order to star in what is among the un­funniest shows on television. Thus, one would think he would have undying gratitude for CBS and the show’s creator, right? On the contrary, Sheen plans on filing a lawsuit against the CBS and Chuck Lorre, the show’s creator. The show is on hiatus indefinitely until Sheen cleans up his act. In addi­tion, Sheen wants to sign on for the show’s ninth and 10th seasons, but only if he receives $3 million per episode plus a $20 million signing bonus. 
All this legal drama aside, Sheen is near­ly always high out of his mind on cocaine. His ex-wife Brooke Mueller recently filed for a restraining order, and his drug-fueled partying has created media frenzy. In a series of bizarre recent interviews with “Good Morning America” and “The Today Show,” Sheen offered some golden quotes. When asked if he was bipolar, Sheen replied he isn’t but instead is “bi-winning.” 





In the same interview, a sweaty and pallid Sheen suggested he was perhaps not from “this terrestrial realm.” After watching the interviews, it starts to seem like a more valid suggestion. When asked if he plans to enter rehab, Sheen claimed he closed his eyes and cured himself “with the power of his mind.” Sheen then remarked that Alcoholics Anonymous is created by “a bro-ken-down fool who is a plagiarist.” 
Christina Aguilera 
Next time you suffer embar­rassment, just be grateful it didn’t occur on the most-watched television program of all time. Aguilera, who sang the national anthem at Super Bowl XLV, unfortu­nately did just that. Instead of singing, “were so gal­lantly streaming,” Aguilera improvised, belting out “the twilight’s last reaming.” As if that weren’t enough, one week later, Aguilera tripped while onstage 
during her perform­ance in an Aretha Franklin tribute. Not many people thought 
Aguilera could outdo the embarrassment of her enormous flop “Bionic,” so kudos to her for at least accomplishing that. 
Along with her public shame, Aguilera’s rap sheet is also 
growing. Aguilera was arrested early Tuesday morning for public intoxi­
cation. She was passenger in the car with boyfriend Matthew Rutler, who 
was arrested for DUI. The police said Aguilera “was not able to take care of herself” and was released from the police sta­
tion at 7:30 a.m. According to TMZ, officials do not plans to prosecute Aguilera. Inside sources said they will be shocked if Aguilera is not soon committed to rehab. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 




page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 3, 2011 

MLB 

Crisp arrested Wednesday on suspicion of DUI 
Phoenix Municipal Stadium tion. Associated Press on time for team pre-game “I talked to Coco,” he said. drills. “The club put out a state-
PHOENIX — Major league “The A’s are aware of the ment which speaks for all of security officials met with the situation and us at this Oakland Athletics on take such point.” Wednesday and delivered matters seri-Geren said their annual spring lecture to ously. The Crisp will play 
“I talked to Coco. The 

the players on the pitfalls of team and on Thursday 
club put out a

their profession. One of the Coco will have when the A’s subjects discussed was the no further statement which play a road danger of drinking and driv-comment until speaks for all of us at game against ing. further details the Milwaukee 
this point.” 

Coco Crisp attended the are avail -Brewers. The meeting. Hours earlier he able.” team has not was in jail. Scottsdale Bob Green indicated if 
Crisp was arrested early police didn ’t A’s manager Crisp faces any Wednesday in Scottsdale, immediately team discipline. Ariz., on suspicion of drunk respond to The 31-year­driving, the third major c a l l s old Crisp is the league player W e d n e s d a y latest major leaguer to face a to be charged r e q u e s t i n g DUI charge since training with DUI dur-information on camps opened. ing spring the arrest. Detroit first baseman training. Crisp was on Miguel Cabrera was arrested 
“The A’s are aware of 
The A’s the field for the in Florida on Feb. 16 on sus­
the situation and take
released a morning work-picion of driving under the statement on such matters out, and he was influence and resisting an the matter. in the clubhouse officer without violence. He is 
seriously.” 
“Coco Crisp before the A’s to be arraigned on March 16. was arrested hosted the On Tuesday, the Indians and detained A’s statement C l e v e l a n d learned that outfielder Austin injury-riddled 2010, when he He batted .279 with eight early this Indians in an Kearns was arrested on Feb. played in just 75 games. He homers, 38 RBIs and had 32 m o r n i n g exhibition. Crisp 12 in Kentucky. He chose not was on the disabled list in steals. under the did not speak to tell that team on advice of April with a broken pinkie In November, the A’s exer­suspicion of with reporters his attorneys, and the team finger and went on the DL cised their $5.75 million driving under the influence before leaving Phoenix was put in the awkward posi-again in May with a strained option on Crisp for 2011. 
of alcohol,” the club said. Municipal Stadium. tion of addressing his situa-rib muscle. Crisp broke the He’s eligible for free agency “He was released from the Following the game, man-tion without knowing many pinkie a second time on Sept. after this season. City of Scottsdale Jail this ager Bob Geren offered little facts. 18 and missed the remainder morning and arrived at information on Crisp’s situa-Crisp is coming off an of the season. 

NBA 

Coveted free agent forward Murphy chooses Celtics 
Associated Press  “That was the most impor­tant factor, going to a team  extended period of time, so I couldn’t really tell you,” he  Harangody and Semih Erden someone that’s to Clevela nd for a second-washed up.”  not  old and  
B O S T O N  — T h e  B o s t o n  that was going to not only be  said. “(It’s) pretty crazy. I’m  round draft pick.  We d n e s d a y n i g h t ’s g a m e  
Celtics signed free-agent for- in the playoffs, but for a long  just looking forward to get- Marquis Daniels  was  sent  was  the first time in Boston  
w a r d  Tr o y  M u r p h y  o n  playoff  run.  Looking  at  the  t i n g h e r e a n d m o v i n g f o r -to the Sacramento Kings for  for the rebuilt team.  
Wednesday.  teams, the Celtics have all  ward towards  a  draft pick. To  "I know the crowd is going  
Murphy began the  season  the potential to do that.”  the future.”  fill out the  ros­ t o  be a mazing, G r ee n sa id  
with the New Jersey Nets but was traded to the Warriors l a s t w e e k . G o l d e n S t a t e bou g h t h im ou t , an d si nce  The 6-foot-11, 245-pound former first-round pick from Notre Dame averaged 14.6 p o i n t s a n d 1 0 . 2 r e b o u n d s  T h e C e l t i c s have been one o f t h e m o s t a c t i v e N B A  “Watching [the Celtics and the Heat], I ft in better with the way  t e r, B o s t o n before the game. "I’ve played s i g n e d C h r i s here early in my career and J o h n s o n t o a it was great. So I’m looking 1 0 -d a y c o n -forward to being part of it on  
then he has been coveted by several teams — including the Miami Heat.  last season with the Indiana Pacers. With the Nets , the New Jersey native averaged  t e a m s i n t h e past week. At the trad- Boston plays, the way they spread the foor.”  tract. Celtics gener­a l m a n a g e r  the good side this time." C e l t i c s c o a c h D o c Ri ve r s said he is eager to get his  
M u r p h y  s a i d  h e  c h o s e  just 3.6 and 4.2 this season.  i n g d e a d l i ne,  D a n n y  A i n g e  team together in practice  so  
Boston because of its style of play. “Watching both teams, I fit  He played in just 18 games with New Jersey and hasn’t played since Jan. 7. But he  t h e y s e n t s t a r t i n g c e n -t e r K e n d r i c k  Troy Murphy Celtics forward  s a i d h e w a s n ’t d o n e y e t : H e ’s h o p i n g t o a d d  he can get the new players familiar with the system. " S i n c e w e ’ r e a d d i n g a l l  
in  w a s  i n  u n i f o r m  f o r  Perkins to the  a n othe r shoot-these guys, the sooner we do  
better with the way Boston  We d n e s d a y  n i g h t ’s  g a m e  Oklahoma City  i n g  g u a r d  — it and put them all together,  
plays, the way they spread  against Phoenix.  T h u n d e r  a l o n g  w i t h  N a t e  p e r h a p s  a s  s o o n  a s  t h e  b e t t e r, "  R i v e r s  s a i d .  
the floor, and you know I just  Murphy said he has been  R o b i n s o n f o r f o r w a r d J e f f  Wednesday or Thursday.  "We’re in the building phase,  
like the way that they play,"  working out to stay in shape.  G r e e n  a n d  c e n t e r  N e n a d  “I’d like to bring in  some- w h i c h  w e  d i d n ’t  t h i n k  w e  
said Murphy, who had  never  “ I ’ v e  n e v e r  b e e n  r e a l l y  Krstic. In  a  separate deal,  one  with  some  experience,"  would be in at this point in  
reached the playoffs.  a p a r t  f r o m  a  t e a m  f o r  a n  B o s t o n  s e n t  b a c k u p s L u k e  he said. “I’d like to bring in  the year, but we are."  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Movie Quotes "Sunnyside Song Lyrics: FOR RENT NOTICES If you or someone you care about ve heard a great deal about you, Tell me where you're going, Tell us ———————————— ____________________________ has been sexually assaulted, Fa Mulan. is a place of ruin and despair, where you're headed OFF-CAMPUS Housing. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? You stole your father's armor, ran I'm off on a adventure, Mr. Raaager 
Don't go it alone. away from home, impersonated a Tell us some of your stories, Tell us Best luxury options at Dublin Notre Dame has many resources we can help. soldier, deceived your commanding of your travels Village, in place to assist you. officer, dishonored the Chinese ruled by an evil bear who smells of HEY!, Mr.Raager, Mr.Rager Irish Crossings, Oak Hill and North If you or someone you love needs For more information, Army, destroyed my palace, and... Tell me where you're going, Tell us Shore Club. confidential support or assistance, strawberries!" where you're headed 
please call you have saved us all. I'm on my way to heaven, Mr. CES Property Management. Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. Raaager For more information, visit ND's visit Notre Dames website: Can we tag along, Can we take the Call 574-298-4206, website at: -The Emperor of China journey www.cespm.info http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu http://csap.nd.edu Mulan, 1998 Toy Story 3 (2010) Kid Cudi, Mr. Rager 
Thursday, March 3, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 13 page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 3, 2011 

Loftus 
continued from page 20 
makes it one of the largest indoor tracks in America, and its wide turns makes it one of the fastest as well. Even its Mondo surface material is respected as the fastest in the world. The Irish have the ben­efit of practicing on this state of the art circuit throughout the year, and they have reaped the rewards, winning two of the past three Big East cham­pionships. 
“We are very fortunate to have the Loftus Center,” senior captain Jack Howard said. “It’s one of the best indoor facilities in the country. It gives us a place to train during the cold winter months and its size allows for a lot of people to use it at the same time.” 
Another benefit of using the Meyo Track is that by practic­ing on a larger track and wider turns, Notre Dame’s runners often have an easier transition to the 400-meter outdoor track in the spring season. 
“Being able to train in there, nation without traveling. This season, the Irish scheduled four indoor meets in the Loftus Center. The Blue-Gold meet and the Notre Dame Invitational were two smaller, early-season meets that helped the Irish to prepare for the 
it helps the guys to fin­ish the indoor sea­son and gain some momentum heading into the outdoor season,” Howard said. 
Perhaps the largest benefit of the Meyo 
“We are very fortunate to have the Loftus Center. It’s one of the best indoor facilities in the country.” 
Jack Howard senior captain 
bulk of their schedule. 
The Meyo Invitational, one of the nation’s pre­mier colle­giate meets, was held last month, and it more than lived up to its reputa­tion. Fast times were on display 
Track for the Irish is the fact throughout the invitational, as that they can host high-quality sophomore Jeremy Rae won meets, allowing them to face the mile in sub-four minute the best competition in the fashion, and Alabama’s Kirani James ran the 400 meters in 

45.47 seconds, the fastest time in the world this year. 
“It is nice to have this great facility because we get to host some national caliber meets right here at home on a track that we are very familiar with, which is definitely a plus,” Howard said. 
The final home meet of the year for the Irish is the Alex Wilson Invitational, which will take place this Friday and Saturday. Elite athletes will once again descend on South Bend, while the Irish will look to perform well enough to qualify for the NCAA champi­onships in Texas. 
“The Wilson meet this week­end is the last chance for everybody to qualify for Nationals,” Howard said. “We have high hopes to get a DMR [distance medley relay] quali­fied as well as several individ­ual qualifiers in various events.” 
With a track as fast as Meyo, qualifying performances might be just a fouth of a mile away. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Koter 
continued from page 20 
solo is a lot different [from the pressure of diving],” he said. “You aren’t necessarily being judged for a certain score or a place or anything like that. The most nerve-wracking part for me is signing in front of a group of talented musicians and being judged by them.” 
Still, Koter’s singing ability is impressive enough to earn the praise of his coach. 
“I’ve heard him sing many times,” Welsh said. “He has sung the national anthem for us at these meets … and I’ve also heard him sing at [the Basilica of the Sacred Heart]. It’s a clean, clear, strong voice that he has.” 
With the zone champi­onships set to begin March 11, singing might have to take a back seat to diving as Koter and the rest of the Irish focus on closing out their season strongly. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 3, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
SWIMMING 

Phelps to battle Lochte in Indianapolis meet 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indianapolis Grand Prix will give Michael Phelps an idea of where he stands in his prepa­rations for this summer’s world championships and the 2012 Olympics. 
He’ll also get to see how he measures up to Ryan Lochte, the world’s dominant swim­mer in 2010. 
Phelps will compete against Lochte in four of the five events the 14-time Olympic gold medalist is scheduled to swim at the Indiana University Natatoriumm. 
Lochte beat Phelps in the 200-meter individual medley during the Austin Grand Prix in January. Lochte, the world record-holder in the event, finished in 1 minute, 59.26 seconds, while Phelps was third in his worst performance of a disappointing meet. 
“Hopefully, I’ll be able to swim a little faster than I did in Texas,” said Phelps, who has been training in Colorado Springs, Colo. “I feel like I’m making steps forward. 
“Over the last couple weeks, couple months, I feel like I’m heading in the right direction. I think there are some small technical things I need to work on, improve on.” 
Phelps is set to compete against Lochte in the 200 freestyle and 100 butterfly events Thursday. Phelps set a world record in the 100 but­terfly at the U.S. national championships in 2009 in Indianapolis and has since bettered the mark. 
They also are slated to com­pete twice Saturday: in a 200 IM rematch and in the 100 freestyle. Phelps also is expected to swim Friday in the 200 butterfly, in which he also holds the world record. Lochte is not entered in that race. 
Phelps said Lochte is part of a talented group of swimmers he feels will push him as he prepares for the world cham­pionships in Shanghai in July and the 2012 Olympics in London. 
“There are a lot of new peo­ple out there,” Phelps said. “A lot of the Europeans are swimming really well, Ryan is swimming really well. It’s going to be fun this summer to head over to Shanghai and be able to swim with some new faces.” 
Phelps said he wants to be strong this week so he can move to the next step: Olympic preparation. 
“I have some times that I want to hit in mind,” he said. “This is a chance to see where I stand for worlds. That’s the biggest thing, is trying to get as prepared as I can and hit all my marks before world championships. If I do that, then I can set up my Olympic trials.” 
Phelps hasn’t committed to swimming beyond the 2012 Olympics. The 25-year-old realizes that he might be on a farewell tour. 
“My mom brought up the point that this could be the last time I swim in these pools, and the last time that she travels to these cities,” he said. “It’s hard to think about, but we’ve been able to have a great career in every pool.” 
Even with all he’s accom­plished, Phelps said he’s still motivated. 
“There are still a lot of goals I have and things I want to achieve before I retire from the sport,” he said. “If I’m able to do those things, then I can look back on my career and say I’ve been successful.” 
When asked what those things were, he said those goals are between him and coach Bob Bowman. 
“Million dollar question,” he said. “Everybody wants to know that, but no one will know. Bob has them, and I have them, and we’ll work together and try to reach them.” 


NFL 

CBA meetings at standstill 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — NFL owners ended their special labor meet­ing Wednesday night without taking any action, just 30 hours before the collective bargaining agreement with the players expires. 
Most of the owners left a sub­urban Washington hotel Wednesday night after a three-hour meeting, canceling anoth­er session scheduled for Thursday. The owners are not required to take a lockout vote. That authority has been given to the NFL’s labor committee, which met with the union in mediated talks earlier Wednesday. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said more mediation sessions were expected. 
“The committee has not made any decision as to what will happen upon expiration of the current agreement if we don’t have a new one by tomorrow night,” Aiello said. 
Indianapolis Colts owner Jimmy Irsay said the owners welcomed the opportunity to be updated on negotiations, but there was little reason for them to remain in Washington as the deadline approaches. 
“We had the chance to ask questions, but we didn’t break with a lockout vote or anything like that,” Irsay said. 
Asked what he expected to happen heading toward the CBA’s expiration, he added: “I never have expectations, except to have A, B, C, D and E, and to always plan for F. It changes, a chessboard that moves around and things happen at unusual hours.” 
Earlier Wednesday, a large group of owners and players’ union president Kevin Mawae participated in mediated con­tract talks for the first time. The ninth session at the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service also included NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and all 10 members of the own­ers’ labor committee and lasted about four hours. 
After the day’s early session, the NFL contingent got into a fleet of a half-dozen black SUVs and headed to Chantilly. Va., to begin filling in other owners on the status of the negotiations. 
About 20 minutes after the league’s group left at 2 p.m., the NFL Players Association’s nego­tiators group departed on foot, walking in the direction of the union’s headquarters, a couple of blocks away. New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees, a member of the NFLPA execu­tive committee, attended the mediation; like Mawae, Brees hadn’t attended this round of negotiations, which began Feb. 
18. But now all members of the union’s executive committee have been present at least once. 
“We’re talking,” Mawae said when he left. “It’s better than not talking.” 
The CBA runs out at midnight Eastern time as Thursday becomes Friday, and among the possibilities are that the owners lock out the players or that the union decertifies. Whatever happens this week could cause the country’s most popular sport to lose regular-season games to a work stoppage for the first time since 1987. Or, perhaps, everything could be resolved by management and labor in an industry with annu­al revenues topping $9 billion. 
NFL general counsel and lead labor negotiator Jeff Pash reit­erated early Wednesday that it is possible that the league and union could agree to extend the deadline for arriving at a new CBA. 
“We have to see where we are. We’ve said that’s an option. We’re not taking anything off the table,” Pash said. 
Owners from the labor com­mittee members who attended the talks Wednesday were: Jerry Richardson of the Carolina Panthers, Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys, Bob Kraft of the New England Patriots, Art Rooney of the Pittsburgh Steelers, John Mara of the New York Giants, Mike Brown of Cincinnati Bengals, Clark Hunt of the Kansas City Chiefs, Dean Spanos of the San Diego Chargers, Mark Murphy of the Green Bay Packers, and Pat Bowlen of the Denver Broncos. 
Until Mara attended Tuesday’s talks, no team own­ers had participated in the mediation sessions. 
Because mediator George Cohen told both sides to stay silent publicly about the current talks, no one has revealed any specifics about what progress might have been made. 
The biggest sticking point all along has been how to divide the league’s revenues, including what cut team owners should get up front to help cover cer­tain costs, such as stadium con­struction. Under the old deal, owners got $1 billion off the top. They entered these negoti­ations seeking to double that. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, March 3, 2011 
NFL 

Gold Glove winner Teixiera axes agent Boras 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira has ended his relationship with longtime agent Scott Boras. 
Teixeira made the announce­ment before Wednesday’s spring training game against Houston. 
“I’ve been thinking about it for a while,” Teixeira said. “There’s no reason to get into a lot of specifics right now, but sometimes business relation­ships just run their course. For me, my family right now, this is the best decision for me.” 
Teixeira said Boras took the news OK, but obviously was disappointed. 
“Hopefully, when I see him, we’ll be able to shake hands and say thanks for the work we’ve done together,” Teixeira 
Fenlon 
continued from page 20 
coaching the Czech team, go over, assist, run the clinic,” Fenlon said. “Turns out we were playing with them.” 
The Czech team was varied, consisting of players ranging from 18 to 45 years old. A Dayton, Md., native, Fenlon was impressed with some of the older players’ skills and even said one woman brought her 18-year-old son to the game. 
“She was so good at lacrosse,” Fenlon said. “She was moving up and down the field better than some of the younger players.” 
The pair also had to deal with the language barrier between themselves and the team, at times asking the referees to translate what their teammates had said to them. 
“It turned out to be a very rewarding experience,” Fenlon said. “I felt like I learned a lot more from them than I actually taught them.” 
Next, Fenlon traveled to Austria, a country with only about 40 girls playing lacrosse nationwide, to coach the game. They shared drills for practice and plays for games in an effort to help spread the game across the nation. 
“It was great to hear the other side of the story because it’s not as widespread as it is here,” Fenlon said. “Over here, we are raised to play lacrosse.” 
Fenlon finished the trip with a vacation in Ireland, where she got to see the small towns that her great-grandparents grew up in. 
“It was a great experience to be over there but I got back appreci­ating so much here,” Fenlon said. “Working with other team mem­bers taught me lessons on how to be a better leader, how to work with different types of people.” 
Last year, Fenlon recorded 27 ground balls and 12 caused turnovers as the Irish finished 11­
7. So far this season, she has scooped up three ground balls and caused two turnovers in helping No. 11 Notre Dame to a 2-2 start. 
“She’s very underrated. She does not get a lot of recognition but she does a lot for us,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
When it comes to Fenlon, the stats do not tell the entire story, according to Coyne. 
“She’s probably one of the most mentally tough players I’ve ever coached,” Coyne said. 
If the season goes the way Fenlon and Irish want, she will have to do even more traveling, this time to Stony Brook, N.Y., the site of the NCAA championship. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
mdefrank@nd.edu 
said. 
Boras talked with Teixeira on Tuesday. 
“Mark and I had a very cor­dial conversation,” Boras said. “Our company had the great honor of working with Mark for over a decade. It was privi­lege to see him grow into one of the best players in the game, become an All-Star and a World Series champion and win a contract that recognizes him among the game’s elite players. We wish him the best moving forward.” 
Teixeira started using the Jonas Group last year to han­dle his off-field promotion. He has not yet hired a new agent. 
“There’s plenty of time for that,” Teixeira said. “Nothing’s on the horizon.” 
Teixeira is in the third sea­son of a $180 million, eight-year contract negotiated by Boras. 
“Right now, the next contract isn’t really on my mind,” Teixeira said. “When I hired Scott at 18, it was to help me with my career. From the time I was a rookie, people started talking about my free-agent contract. Unfortunately, it took away from a lot of things I did on the field. I felt, at times, I was a Mark Teixeira, Scott Boras’ client instead of Mark Teixeira, baseball player.” 
Teixeira says after 12 years together, it was time to make a change. He has not selected a new agent. 
“He gave me everything I asked for contract-wise,” Teixeira said. “I chose Scott for a reason, because I wanted the best agent for my career and for my contract.” 




Thursday, March 3, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 

Serena has emergency surgery for blood clots 


Associated Press 
Serena Williams’ absence from tennis could stretch to almost a year after two new health scares — a blood clot in her lungs followed by a hematoma — have added to her injury woes. 
Her agents confirmed Wednesday that Williams was diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism last week and later needed treatment for a hematoma. The 13-time Grand Slam champion hasn’t played an official match since winning Wimbledon last July because of a foot injury she sustained not on the court but at a restaurant. 
Her latest health problems have been “extremely hard, scary and disappointing,” Williams said in a statement. “I am doing better. I’m at home now and working with my doctors to keep everything under control. I know I will be OK, but am praying and hop­ing this will all be behind me soon. 
“While I can’t make any promises now on my return, I hope to be back by early sum­mer. That said, my main goal is to make sure I get there safely.” 
People magazine first reported on Williams’ condi­tion, quoting spokeswoman Nicole Chabot as saying Williams underwent “emer­gency treatment” Monday for a hematoma suffered as a result of treatment for “a more critical situation,” the pulmonary embolism. 
The 29-year-old Williams was treated at a Los Angeles hospital then returned to her home in the city. 
“Thankfully everything was caught in time,” her agents said in a statement. “With continued doctor visits to monitor her situation, she is recuperating at home under strict medical supervision.” 
Williams’ mother, Oracene Price, tweeted: “Thank you for your concern. She is fine.” 
The tennis star attended Sunday night’s Elton John AIDS Foundation Academy Awards Viewing Party. On Tuesday night, Williams post­ed on her Twitter account, “Tough day.” A few minutes later, she retweeted Kim Kardashian. 
The younger sister of seven-time major champion Venus Williams has been out of com­petition since she cut her right foot on broken glass at a restaurant shortly after win­ning her fourth Wimbledon title July 3. Her comeback has been repeatedly delayed by complications with the injury. 
Williams had surgery after initially hurting her foot and pulled out of the U.S. Open. She resumed practicing in September, but kept pushing back her return and needed an additional operation in October. 
Williams missed the Australian Open in January, where she was the two-time defending champion. 
Chabot told the magazine the embolism was discovered after Williams returned to Los Angeles from New York, where she had gone “for doc­tor appointments for the ongo­ing issues with her foot.” 
Dr. Mark Adelman, chief of vascular surgery at NYU Langone Medical Center, said a patient with a pulmonary embolism would need to take an anticoagulant for six to 12 months but could play sports on the medication. 
“A blood clot can occur in any vein or extremity, most commonly in the leg, and can travel to the lung,” Dr. Adelman wrote in an e-mail. “Prior surgery, air travel, pro­longed sitting, birth control pills, obesity and pregnancy can predispose a patient to a blood clot in the leg that can travel to the lung.” 
Adelman said if a clot-dis­solving agent is used to treat an embolism, it can result in bleeding around the catheter used to deliver the drug. Williams’ agents said the hematoma was removed. 
Williams has a wide range of business, fashion and charita­ble interests that keep her in the public eye even when she’s not on the court. Since win­ning her first Grand Slam title in 1999, she has struggled with injuries on several occa­sions only to come back to win more championships. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, March 3, 2011 
Hodges 
continued from page 20 
Hodges remembers both the mental and physical anguish he endured during those months spent in the hospital. 
“The stroke occurred in the left side of my brain, thus stripped much of my vocabulary and severe numbness through my extremities,” Hodges said. “It was a horrific feeling because I was mentally formulating questions but cannot physically speak. For example, I would try to ask, ‘Can I get a glass of water?’ and I could not convey the question. From the physical side, it was just very tiring. I could not get out of my bed at all for about the first two months, so it was very tiring to even stand up.” 
The next challenge was prepar­ing for a heart transplant. He knew that it was the one way he would be able to live. 
“There was no option for the surgery,” he said. “My heart did not respond to any of the earlier procedures and it became appar­ent that I would have to have the transplant.” 
After a successful surgery, Hodges was still unsure whether he would be able to continue his fencing career. However, he soon found that fencing was an outlet to facilitate his mental and physi­cal rehabilitation. 
“Working out physically became a wonderful refuge to avoid the problems associated with the stroke,” Hodges said. “Getting back into fencing condi­tion really wasn’t too bad because it felt so wonderful to get the alternative to the three months in the hospital,” Hodges said. 
Hodges said the Notre Dame community has been paramount in his recovery, culminating in his return to campus this fall. 
“There are so many wonderful people involved in our community and the Notre Dame family has really shone through adversity,” he said. “I have been so grateful for the constant support from all those involved. It might sound bad to other communities, but I truly believe that many other communities could not have pro­vided such a level of support that I received from the Notre Dame family,” he said. 
A natural athlete, Hodges let­tered three times in both football and tennis in high school, while training at a private fencing club. He began college as a defensive back on the University of Kansas football team. When he learned that his club fencing coach, Gia Kvaratskhelia, had signed on at Notre Dame, Hodges decided to follow him to South Bend. 
“After talking to Gia, I realized that I had a wonderful opportuni­ty,” Hodges said, remembering his decision to come to Notre Dame. “Fencing with Gia and my teammates and receiving a top-level academic education.” 
His unbelievable journey and recovery was capped off at the January Notre Dame Duals that Kvaratskhelia dubbed Teddy’s “coming out party.” 
“For the return to Notre Dame Duals, it was wonderful to see everybody cheering for me,” Hodges said. “To be honest, I still have the competitive drive and I really, really wanted to win that first bout,” Hodges said. 
Hodges won that bout and 14 more that day. Although much has changed over the past 18 months, it seems as though Hodges still has the heart of a champion. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Tenured physicians announce retirement 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Drs. Willard Yergler and David Bankoff both wear National Championship rings from Notre Dame’s defeat of West Virginia on Jan. 2, 1989. 
The two have worked with the Irish football program as team doctors since 1974 and 1981, respectively, and announced their retirements earlier this month. 
Drs. Chris Balint and Brian Ratigan will replace them. All four doctors work at South Bend Orthopaedics (SBO), which has had a relationship with Notre Dame athletics since 1948, when founder Leslie Bodnar started working with Irish athletes. 
As orthopedic surgeons, Yergler and Bankoff dealt with broken bones and other athletic injuries. Their time spent at practice and games was volunteered. 
“We don’t get paid for all these hours and hours,” Yergler said. “We do it because we enjoy taking care Florida after a 


apply them in 

game, the Orange 
New Year’s Eve 
my own life 
Bowl, 55-7 — we just 
bowl. 
goals.” 
got shellacked,” 
“No injury’s 
Yergler, whose 
Bankoff said. “It was 
crazy,” he said. 
first season with 
embarrassing.” 
The two also 
the team was 
The two started the 
interacted with 
Ara Parsegian’s 
transition towards 
student athletic 
last, worked 
retirement two years 
of the teams.” 

During his time with the team, Yergler said he’d dealt with many injuries, including a broken wrist that he had to operate on while the team was still in 
trainers during games, and Yergler allowed inter­ested students to shadow them. 
Senior trainer Amber Rosenberg shadowed Bankoff at SBO. 
“The first surgery I ever saw was a knee replacement with Dr. Bankoff,” she said, “and he didn’t laugh at me when I got woozy at the smell!” 
Yergler sponsors a scholar­ship given to one student trainer each year. 
“I’ve learned through obser­vation about what I want out 
record and top-10 ranking. Tynan and Lee have combined to win four of a possible five CCHA Rookie of the Month awards, with Tynan pulling in National Rookie of the Month honors in November. Tynan was quick to credit the success to his teammates and coaches. 
“All the guys are such a great influence on me,” Tynan said. “The team is so close and the coaches have done a great job. I’m surprised [at the success] but I’m not that surprised because of the people around me.” 
Tynan has emerged as a fan favorite due to his relatively small stature compared to the average collegiate hockey player 
— he is listed at 5-foot-8 — and his feisty, quick-skating style of play. Voran said that off the ice, Tynan’s teammates couldn’t be happier for the Orland Park, Ill., native’s success — which 

“We just pounded them,” he said. “We just destroyed them.” 
Of course, they also wit­nessed some bad times along with the good. 
“Gerry Faust’s last 
Lee 
continued from page 20 
just been enjoying it.” 
After a subpar season by the program’s standards in 2009­10, Irish coach Jeff Jackson turned over nearly half his ros­ter, bringing 12 freshmen into the highly competitive Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA). The players have flour­ished in all aspects, whether it be goalie Steven Summerhays’ five wins in goal, defenseman Stephen Johns’ undisputed role as the team enforcer on the ice, or wing Mike Voran’s 17 points in conference play, good for fourth on the team in that respect. But it is Tynan’s 46 points (19 goals, 27 assists) and Lee’s 40 (21, 19) that have fueled the Irish to their 21-10-5 

of my career,” Rosenberg said. “Obviously, they are both very hard working and accomplished individuals and I have been able to take what I know about their lives and 
careers and 

with eight ago. Bankoff said he coaches during Bankoff told Irish coach Brian 
his tenure and was on the sidelines for 430 games. None were more memorable than the 1988 championship, he said. 
“We celebrate with the team,” he said. “We’re with the team, and we enjoy work­ing with them, and we cele­brate with them.” 
Bankoff, whom Yergler brought into the athletic pro­gram during the Gerry Faust era, remembered the game before the national champi­onship, a 27-10 defeat of No. 2 USC, as his favorite. 
includes making the watch list for the award given to the nation’s top player, the Hobey Baker Award. 
“He’s probably the nicest guy out there,” Voran said of Tynan. “You couldn’t be happier for a guy like that. He’s such a hum­ble guy, and obviously he’s pret­ty fun to watch. Even the guys on the team, when we’re watch­ing him, we get surprised some­times.” 
The success of the freshman duo is all the more impressive when the circumstances under which they came to campus were considered. Tynan wasn’t even expected to join the Irish, but the departure of Jarred Tinordi and Kyle Palmieri to the NHL opened up a spot on the team. Lee, on the other hand, was recruited to play football by Northern Illinois and Minnesota, among others. When the Irish came calling, the Edina, Minn., 
Kelly about the doctors’ impending retirements during one of their first meetings. He said Kelly tried to convince him to stay on a bit longer. 
“My wife and kids always asked when I was going to retire, and I said when we win another national champi­onship,” Bankoff said. “I told that to Coach Kelly, and he said, ‘I’ll come to your retire­ment party. We’ll win one soon.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
native had an easy choice. 
“At the end of the day, I just remember sitting down and say­ing, you know, I love hockey so much,” Lee said. “There was nothing that was going to keep me from that. I love football, but that was pretty much just during the season — after that, it was all hockey. When I visited here and realized I could go to the football games on Saturday and really enjoy it, it was just the best of both worlds.” 
Lucky for the Irish that Lee and Tynan chose to lace up their skates in South Bend. In the wake of recently graduated national stars such as Ian Cole and Erik Condra, a new duo of stars appears to be ready to take the Irish into the new Compton Family Center and a new era of Notre Dame hockey. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Thursday, March 3, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE 



JEFF KNUREK

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, March 3, 2011 page 20 
HOCKEY 
Irish duo lead NCAA in freshmen scoring 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Of the dozens of statistics that demonstrate the youth move­ment currently sweeping Notre Dame hockey, perhaps none is more emphatic than the follow­ing: out of the hundreds of fresh­men currently playing college hockey, not just the top one, but the top two leading rookie scor­ers wear “Irish” across their chests each weekend. 
Center T.J. Tynan and wing Anders Lee have taken not just the Notre Dame hockey scene, but the national hockey scene, by storm. Even Lee admits the early success is a surprise. 
“It’s been a wild ride. We’ve come a long way from the sum­mer,” Lee said. “With 12 fresh­men coming in, we had a lot of work to do, just trying to bring a new young attitude to the team. ... It’s been really fun and I’ve 
see LEE/page 18 
A Fresh Start 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Freshman left wing Anders Lee, left, fghts for the puck in a 2-0 loss to Western Michigan on Feb. 26. Lee was recently named CCHA Rookie of the Month for February. 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Defender learns from excursion 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Some people wonder just how crazy Spain was during this past summer’s World Cup. Notre Dame senior defender Lauren Fenlon isn’t one of those people, as she was able to soak in a different cul­ture while teaching citizens of other countries. 
“It was insane and so much fun,” Fenlon said of the soccer-crazed nation. 
Her journey through Spain (and its hostels), however, was just the start of a four-country tour of Europe. Fenlon, along with a friend from Monmouth University, traveled the continent not only to take a vacation, but also to play and coach lacrosse. 
After visiting Madrid and Barcelona, the duo continued to the Czech Republic, where they were treated to an unexpected but welcome surprise. 
“We thought we were just 
see SPAIN/page 16 
MEN’S DIVING 

Senior-dominated squad ready to pass on experience 
Pa., living in Siegfried Hall, is in is so much greater just Irish coach Tim Welsh has 11:45 Mass a few times,” Koter
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

the only Irish non-senior to because I’ve had the opportuni-confidence Koter will be able to said. “I was really impressed by
Sports Writer 

qualify for the upcoming NCAA ty to have them as role models.” fill the void created by the how great the choir sounded. 
zone championships. Seniors Koter will look to duplicate departure of the squad’s top Freshman year … diving took 
The Irish have at times this Wesley Villlaflor, Nathan Geary the leadership his three men-divers. up most of my time and I didn’t year resembled a three-headed and Big East Diver of the Year tors have displayed when he “I think [his transition] will be want to have too much on my monster thanks to the leader-Eric Lex also qualified for the becomes one of the more expe-natural,” Welsh said. “His con-plate. But this year I decided ship of a trio of seniors. But championships and have played rienced divers on next year’s tinued improvement will just be that it would be worth it.” next year a large portion of a role in Koter’s development. team. a natural transition, so his role While he enjoys his time team leadership will pass to “I’ve learned so much from “Next year is going to be a lot next year will be as our most singing with the choir, Koter sophomore diver Ryan Koter, my senior teammates,” Koter different,” he said. “I’m looking experienced upperclassman.” said performing brings a whole who has reaped the benefits of said. “I feel really lucky to have forward to changing my role In addition to the demands of new form of pressure into his being surrounded by more a group of three divers who are and becoming a leader towards being a student-athlete, Koter is life. experienced teammates in his so great, and I feel like the [the younger divers] and hope-also a member of the Notre “The pressure of having a two years at Notre Dame. quality of diving that I’m doing fully push them to become bet-Dame Folk Choir. 
Koter, a native of Delmont, now compared to when I came ter divers.” “Last year I attended the see KOTER/page 14 
MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Loftus celebrates 25th year 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
One of the key factors to Notre Dame’s success on the track turned 25 this year. No, it’s not an aging fifth-year sen­ior or a newly hired assistant coach. It’s the Meyo Track, one of the premier indoor tracks in the country. 
The Loftus Sports Center was completed in 1985 and began hosting Irish athletes not long after. The nearly 130,000 square foot facility houses Meyo Field, where several other varsity teams practice and play early season games. More importantly for Irish coach Joe Piane and his team, though, is the 400-meter track that surrounds it. That size 
see LOFTUS/page 14 

FENCING 

Hodges overcomes major heart surgery 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

When senior foilist Ted Hodges received a heart trans­plant a year ago, no one could have imagined that he would ever compete in another match. However, after a miraculous recovery, the fencer is back with the Irish and picking up victo­ries both in competition and in his life. 
As Hodges was finishing the 2008-09 school year, his life was interrupted and forever altered. When returning from a Texas hunting trip with friends, Hodges began to feel nauseas, feverish and fatigued. He was rushed to a local Salina, Kan., 
hospital, where a doctor recog­nized his illness as myocarditis, a virus that targeted his heart. 
He was transferred to a larger Kansas hospital, barely surviv­ing the flight. Upon arrival, he slipped into cardiac arrest and needed 39 minutes of CPR to save his life. With his lungs, kid­neys and heart all beginning to fail, he was hooked up to a life-support machine, on which he was reliant for the next three months. 
A stroke suffered at the hospi­tal further complicated Teddy’s illness. He was placed in a med­ically induced coma for nearly a month and had trouble commu­nicating when he awoke. 
see HODGES/page 18 







