the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Judicial Council explains sanctions 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The initial election results for student body president and vice president were delayed 24 hours due to an allegation filed against one of the tickets, Michael Thomas, judicial council vice president of elections, said. 
Thomas said an allegation was filed Monday morning against the James Ward-Heather Eaton ticket. 
“When an allegation is filed, the Election Committee is required to convene in order to address the allegation,” he said. 

The allegation involved an e-mail Ward sent to some stu­dents Sunday night. 
The Election Committee met Monday evening to discuss the claim. 
Prior to the meeting, Thomas said he, along with Judicial Council President Marcelo Perez, Chair of Senate Oversight Committee Paige Becker various Student Activities Office (SAO) advi­sors, made the decision to seal the election results until the allegation was resolved. 
Thomas said no student, including himself, knew the election results at any point during the hearing process. 
“If at any point the election committee knew the results, there would be a real danger that knowledge of the results would influence the hearing process,” Thomas said. 
At the meeting Monday evening, the election commit­tee determined the Ward-Eaton ticket had violated Section 17.1(h) of the student union constitution. 
Thomas said this section is known as the “ethics clause,” and states that candidates are expected to behave ethically at all times. 
In the Sunday e-mail, Ward called the current student government “lax.” 
“The only accomplishments they can tout are the imple­mentation of a textbook rental program that the previous administration put in effect, 
see JUDICIAL/page 4 


Candidates debate before runoff election 
at 8 a.m. today and last until 8 
p.m. Students may access the voting website through an e­mail sent to the student body from Judicial Council. 
The Ward-Eaton ticket said its ideas reflect student inter­ests that should be important to student government. 
“We really want to bring con­crete results to people in little and big aspects of student gov­ernment,” Ward said. 
McCormick and Rocheleau said their platform speaks to the idea of “hope in action.” 
“The size of our hopes for Notre Dame just did not match the smallness of the traditional student government,” McCormick said. 
McCormick and Rocheleau said their administration would 
see RUNOFF/page 5 


Confession app draws attention 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Since their recent launch of an iPhone app meant to guide Catholics through confession, Notre Dame doctoral candi­date Ryan Kreager and his business partners Chip and Patrick Leinen have sold thou­sands of apps and received a great deal of media attention. 
The app, titled “Confession: A Roman Catholic App,” is based on an examination of consciousness by Fr. Dan Scheidt, pastor of Mishawaka’s Queen of Peace Church and a Notre Dame graduate. Scheidt originally developed it for use in his own parish. 
“The examination of con­sciousness at its very nature is a general diagnostic tool,” Scheidt said. “I took what I thought was most helpful from several and developed one for the adults in my parish.” 
Scheidt said the app helps Catholics focus during confes­sion. 
“The app helps people who are so anxious about confes­sion that they forget some or all of what they were going to say and it helps focus their thoughts,” Scheidt said. “An unanticipated way in which it is helping is students who 
see APP/page 4 



By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
The remaining tickets in the election for student body presi­dent and vice president answered questions about their platforms and the role of stu­dent government at Notre Dame during a Wednesday night debate in LaFortune Student Center. 
Two tickets proceeded to the runoff election today after nei­ther candidate received over 50 percent of the votes in Monday’s initial election. The runoff is between Pat McCormick and Brett Rocheleau, who won 
38.07 percent of Monday’s votes, and James Ward and Heather Eaton, who had 22.59 percent. 
The runoff election will begin 



OIS receives record number of applications 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
The Office of International Studies (OIS) received a record number of applications for study abroad during the 2011-12 school year, accord­ing to Kathleen Opel, director of OIS. 
An increase in applicants is a recurring trend, Opel said. 
“The number of applications is very slightly higher than last year,” she said. “Each year the number rises slight­ly.” 
Opel said 1,002 students submitted 1,571 applications. OIS accepted approximately 800 students. That number will rise in the coming weeks as OIS accepts students from wait lists. 
“A number of offers of acceptances will be extended in the next two weeks to cover those who withdrew an appli­cation or declined accept­ance,” Opel said. 
The rise in applications dis­plays students’ interest in education extending beyond Notre Dame’s campus, Opel said. 
“The numbers indicate Notre Dame’s study abroad programs are strong, and that our students recognize the value of an international edu­cation experience, whether on an OIS study abroad program, a service-learning interna­tional experience or a research or internship oppor­tunity off campus,” she said. 
Opel said OIS works to be a valuable asset to students’ educations. 
“Being engaged with the international community is an integral part of a Notre Dame education,” she said. 
The deadline for applica­tions for the 2011-12 academ­ic year was Nov. 15, 2010. Opel said the process of eval­uating the applications is very intensive. 
“Each program has a com­mittee that reads all the applications to determine if the student meets the qualifi­cations necessary and if the student preferences for site and semester can be met,” 
see OIS/page 5 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students prepare for graduate school exams page 3 Weekend calendar page 10  Men’s lacrosse feature page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, February 17, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH DO YOU PREFER ... BOXERS OR BRIEFS?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Eric Prister Alicia Smith Andrew Owens Anna Boarini Scene Graphics Jordan Gamble Melissa Kaduck Viewpoint Photo Ren Brauweiler Thomas La 


OFFBEAT 

Dog helps in owner’s arrest on drug charges 
MORO, Ore. — An Oregon sheriff's deputy didn't need a drug dog to point out a stash during a recent traffic stop. The dri­ver's dog did it for him. 
KGW-TV reports Sherman County sheriff's Sgt. John Terrel was pulling over a pickup truck Feb. 9 when he saw a sock fly out the window. It turned out to be stuffed with marijuana and hashish. 
The driver told Terrel he was trying to hide the sock, but his pit bull mix grabbed it and wouldn't let go, enjoying a tug-of-war game. 
The dog won the tussle 
Alyson Grillot  Brittany Backstand  Shane Hannon  Pat McIntyre  Patrick Rice  
freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  
Pangborn  Pangborn  Alumni  Dillon  Alumni  

“Boxers ... “Briefs because “Boxers ... “Boxers ... thats “Whatever they’re Alyson said why?... what I grew up Badin girls roomier” boxers.” freedom.” on!” don’t prefer” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

and tossed the sock out the window, and the 32-year­old driver was indicted on drug possession charges. 
Sheriff Brad Lohrey says he wished everyone trav­eled with their own person­al drug dog. 
German law encourages children to make noise 
BERLIN — Children of Germany take heart — it may soon be perfectly legal to make noise. 
Germany is so desperate to encourage people to have more children that the government is propos­ing a bill allowing citizens under six to laugh, shout and play at any volume. 
Germany is a land of many rules, especially about noise. The govern­ment's move comes after a series of lawsuits about children and noise, and a recent call from a senior citizens' chapter of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives, who sought to ban kinder­gartens from residential areas because they are too loud. 
The government said Wednesday the proposed law would exempt children from strict regulations on noise limits, which force construction sites to stand idle for hours at midday and prohibit mowing lawns on Sunday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The final lecture for Ethics Week 2011 will be presented by Peter Dawes, President and CEO of Composetech Structures. His talk is titled, “Sustainable Energy: A Wind Energy Primer-Profits and Politics?” Ethics Week 2011 covers a range of topics deal­ing with sustainability and new and alternative energy sources. The lecture will start at 12:30 p.m. today in the Giovanini Commons at the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free. 
Today at 4 p.m., Dr. Carl Elliot will be giving the spring Schmitt Lecture entitled, “A Clinical Trial, A Suicide, and the Strange Recent History of Anti-Psychotic Drugs.” The lecture is being held in McKenna Hall and is free. 
A Fullbright information meeting is open for junior and seniors today in Geddes Hall. The event starts at 4 p.m. for those interested in spendng a year after graduation abroad. 
The film “Downfall”, about Hitler and the final days of his regime will be showing in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today. The film starts at 7 p.m. and costs between $3 and $6. 
The final in a series of five presentations, The Martin Luther King, Jr. Series for the Study of Race will be held today in Debartolo Hall room 
136. The event is led by Irene 
J. Kim Park and May Kim. The series is presented by Multicultural Student Programs and Services and will begin at 6 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday Sunday monday 


CORRECTIONS 

A Feb. 15 article, “Notre Dame works to be green,” misspelled Notre Dame graduate Heather Christophersen's name. The Observer regrets this 



error. 

LOW 43 LOW 35 LOW 28 LOW 24 LOW 29 LOW 25 


Thursday, February 17, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Students prepare for graduate school exams 
cations to graduate programs he said. “But I would like to by preparing correctly, Weale see other organizations other said. than Kaplan on campus.” 
Kaplan offers a range of Senior John Anders pre­programs in the classroom pared for the LSAT with a 
ByMEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
Midterm exams are rapidly approaching, but many upperclassmen are focusing their attention on post-gradu­ate exams. 
To prepare for these exams, many juniors and seniors reach out to organizations such as Kaplan Test Prep. 
Liza Weale, executive direc­tor of pre-business and pre­graduate programs for Kaplan, said Kaplan Test Prep provided courses to more than 638,000 students world­wide over a single year. Kaplan offers preparation for the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE), Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT), Law School Admissions Test (LSAT) and Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT). 
Admissions tests are one of the only quantitative and objective measures on appli­cations for graduate school. 
“In Kaplan Test Prep’s 2010 surveys of graduate school, business school and law school admissions officers, the GRE, GMAT and LSAT, respectively, ranked as the most important admissions factors,” Weale said. “According to our medical school admissions officers’ survey, a low MCAT score is the biggest application killer.” 
However, students can improve their scores dramati­cally before they send appli­and online as well as private tutoring to help students pre­pare for these tests. 
Junior Tony Dang is among the many pre­med students preparing for the MCAT in May. Dang said he began slow­ly preparing for the exam over summer break. 
“The resources that Ihave been 

“I think the [University] offers adequate options to help with test preparations. But I would like to see other organizations other than Kaplan on campus. 
Tony Dang junior 
Kaplan Live Online class during summer 2010 before he took the exam in October. The instructor for the course broadcasted the lesson over a video to stu­dents across the country. 
“Because I took this class, I took five prac­tice exams prior to my actual test day,” he 
using so far have been the Kaplan MCAT test books for each individual subject (Physics, General Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Biology and the verbal portion of the test),” he said. “I also have 10 practice tests that a friend that sent me for extra prac­tice once I’m done with study­ing the subjects. All of the studying is individualized, meaning that I am not taking any classes in preparation for this test.” 
Dang said he would like to see different organizations, such as the Princeton Review, on campus in addition to more traditional companies. 
“I think the [University] offers adequate options to help with test preparation,” said. “They gave me a feel for where I was before taking the actual exam.” 
Anders said he utilized the online LSAT tools provided by Kaplan to monitor his study­ing. 
“They have this thing called Smart Reports that analyzes your performance on practice tests and diagnoses where you could use more practice and tracks your progress,” Anders said. “I found this to be one of the most helpful tools in my preparation.” 
Because of the ample resources offered through Kaplan, Anders said he did not seek out resources through Notre Dame other than quiet study space in campus libraries. 

Anders said he was confi­dent of the test format and types of questions on the exam, and he said he was very happy with his score. 
“I think knowing exactly what I was going to get on the exam was a huge confidence boost for me, and my scores represented this,” Anders said. “I have the class I took to thank for this.” 
Saint Mary’s senior Kristen Metzger will take the GRE at the end of the summer and courses take the dynamic interaction of a live instructor 
— who brings all the enthusi­asm and inspiration of our Kaplan classrooms — and combines it with state-of-the­art online classroom tools to translate the combination into an online environment that’s designed to enhance the learning experience,” she said. 
Fees for Kaplan programs 
vary depending on the pro­gram. Weale said thousands 

was accepted to the Teach for  “I think knowing  of free practice tests and  
America pro-gram after graduation. Metzger will  exactly what I was going to get on the exam was a huge  a d m i s s i o n s seminars are a v a i l a b l e across the  
receive  her  confdence boost for  country.  
master’s degree in education at the University  me, and my scores represented this.”  S t u d e n t s unhappy with their prepara- 
of  North  tion or exam  
Carolina while  John Anders  score can study  
she completes that program.  senior  with Kaplan for free for the  
Metzger said  next test date  
she  used  or  for  three  

Kaplan resources to study for more months for computer-past exams and turned to based tests. their GRE preparation book “Students in our programs because she was familiar with see great results, as evi­their format. denced by the tens of thou­
“They also offer practice sands of students who come tests online that I’m sure I to us each year,” Weale said. will take advantage of,” she “Much of Kaplan’s growth said. comes from reputation and 
The “Classroom Anywhere” word-of-mouth, so we have a online option is the most pop-vested interest in helping our ular among students prepar-students succeed.” ing for exams through Kaplan, Weale said. Contact Megan Doyle at 
“Classroom Anywhere mdoyle11@nd.edu 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group dedicates funds to printers in dorms 

By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 

Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) members voted unanimously to pursue an initiative that would eventually put printers in each residence hall and voted to dismiss a proposal for additional bike racks on campus. 
Both initiatives were ideas to spend the remaining $3,400 of the current SGA adminis­tration’s capital fund. 
Student body president Rachael Chesley brought tech­nology into the dialogue. Updating technology has always been an interest of SGA, but all preceding admin­istrations abandoned the idea after running into several obstacles, Chesley said. These obstacles include not having any one person responsible for the printer, which led to frequent state of disarray of the printers. 
According to Residence Hall Association (RHA) President Marianne Jones, RHA also has an interest in installing print­ers in the dorms, but funding is a roadblock. 
“Hall councils have been charged with coming up with a list of improvements to resi­dence halls,” Jones said, “and the number one thing that everyone wanted was printers in the dorms, but this is out of RHA’s price limit.” 
SGA voted unanimously to officially pursue putting print­ers into the dorms. Chesley and student body vice presi­dent Laura Smith will meet with Coordinator of Student Computing Kathleen Hausmann next week to dis­cuss a proposed plan of action, Chesley said. 
“I kind of see it as a phase process,” Chesley said. “It wouldn’t be all the dorms at once. I think it would begin with one dorm, one printer to prove to the technology department that we can do this, and then we can expand it in the future.” 
SGA also discussed installing more bike racks on campus. 
The bike rack proposal came from a series of com­ment cards SGA received from students through the comment card collection in the dining hall earlier in the year. Chesley pursued the sugges­tion with Building Services and brought price points and information to last week’s SGA meeting, but the initiative was moved to this week’s agenda. 
SGA members voted to dis­miss the initiative due to lack of evidence that a majority of the student body supported it and due to the high cost of installing the bike racks. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 17, 2011 
sent to students right away, as way we wouldn’t have to back-“The goal for that is to rules, I as vice president of Ward and Eaton chose to file track.” remove any advantage current elections inform the candi-

Judicial 
continued from page 1 
tumultuous relationships with the South Bend police (and continued arrests), a poorly advertised student discount program and poorly attended pep rallies,” the e-mail stated. “Little or no consideration is given to the students, and cur­rent leaders within student government itself are content to rest on their ... laurels.” 
The committee decided an appropriate sanction for Ward would be the submission of an apology e-mail to Judicial Council by 11:59 p.m. Monday, which would then be distrib­uted to the entire student body. Ward complied and sent the e-mail by the given dead­line. 
However, the e-mail was not an appeal to the allegation. 
An appeal must be filed within 24 hours of the allega­tion, Thomas said. After an appeal is filed, Student Senate must convene within 48 hours to hear the appeal. 
Thomas said he once again made the decision to withhold the election results until the appeal process was finished, in order for the Senate to remain unbiased. 
After consulting with Becker, Thomas also decided to wait until the appeals process was finished before distributing Ward’s apology e-mail to the student body. 
“James satisfied the require­ments of the sanction, but I wanted to give the process time to work,” Thomas said. “In case the Senate found it was an unfair sanction, that 
However, the Ward-Eaton ticket dropped the appeal on Tuesday evening and the e­mail was sent to the student body. 
With the sanction completed and the appeal dropped, Thomas was able to announce the results of the election Tuesday night. 
According to Thomas, all of the rules for campaigning are publicly available in the stu­dent union constitution. These detailed, extensive rules are in place in order to maintain an equal playing field between all candidates, he said. 
For example, no campaign­ing is allowed to take place in any meeting or on any agenda of official student union busi­ness, such as meetings of Student Senate, Class Council or Hall President’s Council. 


MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 

University of Notre Dame doctoral candidate Ryan Kreager, creator of the I Confess iPhone app 
works at his laptop. 
App 
continued from page 1 
have special needs. They use their iPhone to help focus on what they want to say.” 
Kreager said they launched the app through their business Little i Apps, LLC. He thought of the idea by talking to his sister’s boyfriend. 
“John [Deng] and I were just talking about confession,” Kreager said. “He made a comment about making con­fession easier and we thought there should be an app for that.” 
Deng did not want to be involved in the app develop­ment process, so Kreager took the idea to the Leinen broth­ers. They jumped at the chance. 
The three self-described “Catholic Geeks” did have some experience in program­ming and web development, but had never developed an app before. 
“There was a learning curve on the app development side,” Kreager said. “But for us, this was an evening and weekends project.” 
After about six months, they released a prototype of the app to a few close friends and a local youth group. Soon after their beta testing ended, the app was released. 
The app received an impri­matur, an official statement from a bishop that states that Church had approved confes­there are no doctrinal or sion via iPhone. Some news moral errors. sources retracted their false 

Bishop Kevin Rhoades, of the statements, while Kreager said Fort Wayne-South Bend dio-others did not. cese, granted the examination “The Vatican released a of consciousness the impri-statement saying that they are matur. not opposed to the app as long 
“As far as we know, we are as it is used correctly,” the first app to receive this,” Kreager said. “We also issued 
Kreager said. “It  a  statement  
gave the app  a  saying that  we  
credibility that it wouldn’t have had otherwise.”  “As far as we know we are the frst app  stand fully behind the Vatican’s state- 
The examina­ to receive this [the  ment and that  
tion of con-sciousness the app uses is what s p e c i f i c a l l y  imprimatur]. It gave the app a credibility that it wouldn’t have  the app is just an aid to con-fession, not a replacement.”  
received  the  had otherwise.”  Scheidt said  
imprimatur.  the confession  
Scheidt said n o n -C a t h o l i c s  Ryan Kreager  app “has gener­ated a conver­ 
also use the app  doctoral candidate  sation  about  

just to look at their life and examine the choices they are making. 
“This gives non-Catholics who are unfamiliar with con­fession the ability to see and learn more about the sacra­ment,” Scheidt said. 
Even though the app has proved to be helpful, Kreager said there has been misleading media coverage of it. Originally, coverage was only picked up by some Catholic blogs and news sources, he said. Other media outlets eventually picked up the story of the app and some even reported that the Catholic confession that 
would be diffi­cult to pay an advertising com­pany to replicate. It has gotten people talking and that’s a good thing.” 
With all the coverage, the app was even mentioned in jokes on both Conan O’Brien and Jay Leno’s television shows, Kreager said. 
Currently the team is work­ing on adding new features such as customizable sin lists, porting it to the Android and translating the app into sever­al other languages. 


Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
student government leaders may have in campaigning,” Thomas said. 
Similarly, campaigning in LaFortune Student Center is only allowed on the first floor and in the basement, in order to keep campaigning away from the student government offices on the second and third floors. 
Candidates are also not allowed to solicit endorse­ments or use listservs for cam­paigning purposes. These two rules are among the most com­monly broken, Thomas said, along with the need for candi­dates to have all of their cam­paigning materials approved by the election committee. 
Thomas said the formation of the rules falls under the jurisdiction of Student Senate. 
“Student Senate writes the dates of the rules and the elec­tion committee interprets the rules and determines whether or not they were broken,” he said. 
Any student can file an alle­gation, Thomas said, and directions for how to do so are available on the Judicial Council Web site. 
Thomas said allegations are usually uncommon, and the reason for so many in this year’s election is probably due to the high number of tickets running for student body pres­ident and vice president. 
“This created a very compet­itive environment,” he said. “The candidates wanted to make sure that no one was gaining an unfair advantage.” 


Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 17, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
would also help students better understand the resources avail-


Runoff 
continued from page 1 
redefine student government to give Notre Dame students a voice in larger social justice issues. 
“We want to transform what has come to be an institution where we all know the script. What we want to try to do is offer a vision of more,” McCormick said. “We want to try and make an argument that it is a false choice, this difference between issues of con-able through student govern­ment to help finance better pro­gramming. 
“There are already councils and organizations set up to increase communication between the different branches of student government,” Ward said. “The biggest aspect here is communication between student government and the student body. Transparency is always an issue. We don’t really see the things that are going on in stu­dent government.” 
Ward also 
said the 

venience and  “The biggest aspect here  Campus  Life  
issues of con­sequence. We think it is time to build a stu­ is communication between student government and the  Council (CLC) would be an i m p o r t a n t forum for dis- 
dent govern­ment that matches the  student body. Transparency is an issue.  cussion under his presidency. The candi­ 
size  of  the  We don’t really see the  dates  also  
hopes in the Notre Dame student body.” The team  things that are going on in student government.”  answered ques­tions about c o m m u n i t y r e l a t i o n s  
would expand  between Notre  
on the Playing for Peace rally and basketball t o u r n a m e n t  James Ward Student body presidential candidate  Dame students and the city of South Bend. Both tickets  
held this year  e m p h a s i z e d  
to  promote  c o m m u n i t y  

peace in Sudan, and hopefully service as a way to involve stu­hold a large charity concert with dents in the local area in a posi­celebrity guests to raise aware-tive light. ness for a social justice issue, Eaton said their administration McCormick said. would encourage community 
Rocheleau said the team would service through the Robinson create a director of constituent Community Learning Center and services to tackle smaller stu-other local organizations. dent concerns, such as lowering “Notre Dame is much more the price of “quarter dogs” back than just the drinking culture,” to 25 cents and increasing print she said. quotas. McCormick said he would 
In contrast, Ward and Eaton specifically expand the eND said they would make the cur-Hunger campaign begun by the rent structure of student govern-current administration in a ment more transparent to focused attempt to end food inse­improve communication with curity in the West Side of South students. Bend. 
Eaton said this transparency “We are hoping to expand the 

memorandum of understanding forms. that has already been begun by Ward said he would appoint a this administration, which will member of CORE Council to the institutionalize our relationships Gender Relations Committee. 
with  the  “We do finally  
South  Bend  want to address  
p o l i c e ,  ”  “We want to transform  LGBTQ  issues  
M c C o r m i c k said. “In order to build  what has come to be an institution where we all  directly from student govern­ment rather  
c o m m u n i t y relations we think we need to prove to  know the script. What we want to try to do is offer a vision of more.”  than solely from the CORE Council,” Ward said.  
c o m m u n i t y  Ward  and  
members that  Pat McCormick  M c C o r m i c k  
students are about more than just  Student body presidential candidate  both said they would work to establish a gay  
drinking  off  and  straight  
campus.”  alliance  on  

The candidates both included campus as an official student expanding LBGTQ inclusion at club. Notre Dame and increasing cam-McCormick also said his plat-pus sustainability in their plat-form includes a long-term pro-


OIS 
continued from page 1 
she said. 
Opel said in addition to two students who were accepted to the new program in Dakar, Senegal, OIS is looking to replace the Leuven, Belgium program by next year. 
OIS accepted 26 students to its program in Cairo. Opel said despite the political upheaval in the country, OIS is exploring all possible options for students who were admitted. 
“It is not clear that the [Cairo] program will run, par­ticularly in the fall. We are presenting the students with several options including deferring acceptance to spring semester when the sit­uation may be clearer or changing to their second pref­erence program for consider­ation,” she said. “I hope and anticipate that Cairo will con­tinue to be a study abroad site in the future.” 
Regardless of the location, Opel said OIS ensures pro­grams affiliated with Notre Dame are of the highest qual­ity. 
“We know our partners abroad and work with them to posal to reduce the University’s carbon footprint by 70 percent. 
“We have outlined in our plat­form a series of proposals that will help us get there,” McCormick said. “They center around diversifying the University’s energy portfolio … and to really come together to achieve measurable progress of this school.” 
All candidates said they would continue with student govern­ment positions whether their ticket wins or loses in the runoff election. 
“A great thing about going to a place like Notre Dame is that you know that all the candidates in the race would do a great job,” Eaton said. “We all have the stu­dents’ best interests at heart.” 


Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
ensure that our students are in quality programs that pro­vide rigorous and stimulating educational experiences while keeping students in safe living and learning environments,” she said. 
Regardless of whether OIS acceptances or rejections, Opel said Notre Dame under­graduates should attempt to study abroad by any means possible. 
“We in OIS want to help provide this opportunity to every student we can,” she said. “If there is not an oppor­tunity through OIS, we urge students to explore other international options through ND or beyond ND.” 
Opel said the power of international educational experiences is defined by how students develop in a foreign setting. 
“Study abroad can change you, your life goals, your per­spectives about other coun­tries and cultures as well as your own,” she said. “It pro­vides a window on the world beyond the U.S. It allows you to grow and test yourself in ways that aren’t possible when you are in a completely familiar environment.” 


Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 17, 2011 


CBS earnings grow during forth quarter 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — CBS Corp.’s earnings growth accel­erated during the fourth quar­ter as advertisers spent more broadcasting their commer­cials during last year’s political campaign and holiday shop­ping season. 
The results released Wednesday provided the latest sign that advertisers are increasing their television and radio marketing budgets as they feel more confident about the U.S. economy’s recovery from the Great Recession. Advertising also has been ris­ing in most other media but newspapers. 
CBS, based in New York, serves as a barometer of advertising sentiment because it runs the top-rated television network and owns 28 local TV stations and 130 radio sta­tions. 
The company’s total ad rev­enue during the final three months of 2010 rose 12 per­cent from the prior year, with the biggest gains coming at its local TV stations. Political spending heading into the early November election drove the growth early in the quarter and then CBS got a boost from a marketing blitz in the best holiday shopping season in four years. 
Although management didn’t provide a specific earnings forecast, executives said they expected profit margins to widen this year and next. “We expect great things this year and beyond,” CEO Leslie Moonves said. 
CBS earned $283 million, or 41 cents per share, in the quarter, compared with profit of $59 million, or 9 cents per share, at the same time in 2009. The 2009 results includ­ed $200 million in charges that depressed the bottom line. 
If not for one-time items in the latest quarter, CBS said it would have earned 46 cents per share. That figure topped the average estimate of 43 cents per share among ana­lysts polled by FactSet. 
Revenue for the period rose 11 percent from the prior year to $3.9 billion, slightly above analyst estimates. Revenue in the 2009 fourth quarter was $3.5 billion. 
Besides benefiting from an advertising revival, CBS also raked in higher licensing fees for its shows. Those fees climbed 29 percent in the fourth quarter, with the biggest chunk coming from the syndication rights to the series 
“CSI:  Crime  Scene  
Investigation.”  
CBS’s  cable  division,  

Showtime Networks, also fared well with a 6 percent revenue increase. The cable networks ended the year with 67.1 mil­lion subscribers, up 5.8 million from 2009. 
CBS shares initially rose after the fourth-quarter results came out but were unchanged after a few hours of extended trading. The stock ended the regular trading session at $22.10, up 45 cents. Investors have driven up CBS’s market value by about 40 percent since the end of September, reflecting their belief that the company would benefit from an advertising revival. 


Ind. House approves banning gay marriage 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana House approved a constitutional amendment on Tuesday to ban gay marriage and civil unions — a step opponents said was unnecessary since same-sex marriage is already illegal in the state. 
Supporters say the amendment would provide an additional layer of protection for traditional marriage in case courts later overturn Indiana’s law. The Republican-controlled House voted 70-26 to advance the pro­posal, which must clear two sep­arately-elected Legislatures to get on the ballot for a public vote. 
“Marriage is — and should be 
— the union of one man and one woman,” said Rep. Eric Turner, R-Marion. 
Rep. Ralph Foley, R-Martinsville, said nothing in the resolution keeps gay people from living together or loving each other. But he said that’s different relationship than marriage. 
Opponents said the proposal would write discrimination into the state’s constitution. 
Rep. Matt Pierce, D-Bloomington, said the constitu­tion should protect the minority, and that the proposed amend­ment goes against that philoso­phy. He said attitudes about mar­riage change over time and noted that some states once out­lawed interracial marriages. 
“What side of history will we stand on?” he asked. 
Rep. Mary Ann Sullivan, D-Indianapolis, prepared her remarks in the form of a Valentine’s Day poem since she anticipated a vote on the propos­al Monday. Although the vote was delayed a day, she said her comments still applied since they came from her heart. 
Her poem said people would be hurt and communities would be less diverse if the constitution was amended to ban gay mar­riage. 
“Please have the courage to keep the document free of your personal judgment of what mar­riage should be,” she said. 
A similar amendment banning gay marriage passed the General Assembly in 2005 when Republicans controlled the House and Senate. But in 2006, Democrats won control of the House and the proposal didn’t clear the chamber again while they held power so the process had to start over. 
Republicans won control of the House last year, giving the pro­posal new life. Now that the House has approved the meas­ure, it moves to the GOP-ruled Senate, where it is expected to pass. 




Computercompetesonshow 

Associated Press 
Machines first out-calculated us in simple math. Then they replaced us on the assembly lines, explored places we couldn’t get to, even beat our champions at chess. Now a computer called Watson has bested our best at “Jeopardy!” 
A gigantic computer created by IBM specifically to excel at answers-and-questions left two champs of the TV game show in its silicon dust after a three-day tournament, a feat that experts call a technologi­cal breakthrough. 
Watson earned $77,147, ver­sus $24,000 for Ken Jennings and $21,600 for Brad Rutter. Jennings took it in stride writ­ing “I for one welcome our new computer overlords” alongside his correct Final Jeopardy answer. 

The next step for the IBM machine and its programmers: taking its mastery of the arcane and applying it to help doctors plow through bliz­zards of medical information. Watson could also help make Internet searches far more like a conversation than the hit-or-miss things they are now. 
Watson’s victory leads to the question: What can we measly humans do that amazing machines cannot do or will never do? 
The answer, like all of “Jeopardy!,” comes in the form of a question: Who — not what — dreamed up Watson? While computers can calculate and construct, they cannot decide to create. So far, only humans can. 
“The way to think about this is: Can Watson decide to cre­ate Watson?” said Pradeep Khosla, dean of engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. “We are far from there. Our ability to create is what allows us to discover and create new knowledge and technology.” 
Experts in the field say it is more than the spark of cre­ation that separates man from his mechanical spawn. It is the pride creators can take, the empathy we can all have with the winners and losers, and that magical mix of adrena­line, fear and ability that kicks in when our backs are against the wall and we are in sur­vival mode. 


Thursday, February 17, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Obama presents 2012 budget outline 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama said Wednesday that difficult debates on how to address the costs of Social Security and Medicare are “starting now,” even though his 2012 budget blueprint lacked any major changes to the large benefit programs. 
Illustrating the challenges ahead, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., stressed that any cost-cutting of major government benefit programs is possible “as long as you eliminate Social Security” from the discussion. 
In an interview with a Cincinnati television station, Obama did not offer any spe­cific modifications but did not take Social Security off the table, as Reid insisted. Obama has been having a number of budget discussions with con­gressional officials, meeting with Senate Democratic lead­ers on Wednesday and with House Republican leaders last week. He is scheduled to talk to House Democratic leaders on Thursday. 

“We’re starting now. I mean, the conversations have already begun,” Obama told WCPO television, the ABC affiliate in Cincinnati. 
Reid, who requested Wednesday’s Senate leader­ship meeting with the presi­dent, reiterated his view in the meeting that Social Security is in fine shape for decades and shouldn’t be tar­geted for cuts, according to two Democratic aides with knowledge of the discussion. They spoke on condition of anonymity to describe the pri­vate conversations. 

“Social Security has con­tributed not a single penny to the deficit,” Reid said earlier in the day. “So we can talk about entitlements as long as you eliminate Social Security. Because Social Security is not part of the problem we have in America with the deficit.” 
In the meeting, Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., told the president he thought Social Security should be considered separately from the budget, one aide said. Also attending were Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Patty Murray, D-Wash. 
Senior lawmakers in both parties have talked in general terms of seeking a broad deficit-reduction agreement later this year. Reining in the growing costs of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid are widely cited as essential ingredients in any such compromise. Medicaid is a state-federal program that provides health care to the lower-income. Social Security and Medicare, in particular, are politically sensitive, pro­viding retirement and health benefits for millions of sen­iors. 
House Republicans have said they plan a budget pro­posal that will take on over­hauling Social Security and Medicare, and they have criti­cized Obama for failing to address the programs in his budget. Democratic lawmak­ers favor waiting to see what the GOP proposes before mov­ing forward, aides said. 
Adjusting Social Security and Medicare have been polit­ically charged topics that both parties have used to attack each other, and any political party that seeks major changes unilaterally leaves itself open to criticism. Obama noted in a news conference this week that in the past, sig­nificant changes to Social Security were bipartisan. 
In his interview with the Cincinnati television station, Obama carefully avoided showing his preferences for containing program costs. 
“The key on both Social Security as well as Medicare is making sure that we do changes that strengthen the system, that make sure that the same amount of money going out is the same amount of money coming in,” he said. “Social Security is a little easi­er to deal with. We know there are just four or five dif­ferent things that we could do. The question is, what’s the best mix? Medicare is a little tougher because it involves the health care system as a whole.” 
White House press secretary Jay Carney said Wednesday that making needed changes in the two massive programs will require compromise. 
Carney distinguished between Social Security and Medicare, asserting that Social Security spending does not contribute to short-term deficits. And he reiterated Obama’s assertion that he does not want to “slash” Social Security benefits. He declined to say whether Obama would accept any reduction in benefits for future retirees. 
“The president wants to protect current retirees,” Carney said. “He does not want a solution that slashes benefits.” 
Reid’s spokesman, Jon Summers, said the Nevada Democrat opposes any cuts for Social Security recipients, as well as any reduction in benefits promised to future retirees. He also rejects an increase in the age at which workers can begin to draw full Social Security retire­ment, Summers said, adding, “he sees that as a benefit cut.” 
Though Obama’s budget did not contain any adjustments to those programs, a presi­dential deficit-reduction com­mission floated several late last year. Among them was an increase in the age for full retirement benefits under Social Security, and steps to slow the growth of future ben­efits. 



Now Open Tilted Kilt Pub & Eatery 
1032 E. University Dr. Granger, IN 
Full service menu and bar, 24 beers 

on tap, 32 TV’s, All sport packages Bring in any student ID and receive 10% off your food bill 
join our text club: text tkgfans to 74422 


Wolves in Montana to be shot 
Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Mont. — Defying federal authority over gray wolves in his state, Montana Gov. Brian Schweitzer on Wednesday encouraged live­stock owners to kill wolves that attack their animals — even in areas where that is not currently allowed — and said the state will start killing off packs that hurt elk herds. 
Schweitzer told The Associated Press he no longer is willing to wait for federal officials to resolve the tangle of lawsuits over wolves, which has kept the animals on the endangered species list for a decade since recovery goals were first met. 
"We will take action in Montana on our own," he said. "We've had it with Washington, D.C., with Congress just yipping about it, with (the Department of) Interior just vacillating about it. What we see in Washington, D.C., is motion masquerading as action." 
State wildlife agents and ranchers killing wolves already occurs regularly across much of the Northern Rockies, where 1,700 of the predators roam parts of five states. Rules against killing wolves have been relaxed by federal officials over the past decade. 
Livestock owners in southern Montana and Idaho have authority to defend their prop­erty by shooting wolves that attack their cattle, sheep or other domestic animals. And federal agents regularly kill wolves in response to such attacks, with more than 1,000 shot over the past decade. 
But Schweitzer is moving to expand those killings beyond what the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has so far allowed, including to parts of Montana where ranchers are not allowed to shoot the predators. 
Fish and Wildlife spokesman Chris Tollefson said the agency was working with Montana 
and other states in the region to address their concerns over wolves. 
"We've been in negotiations with Montana and the other states for some time, and we're committed to continuing that and trying to find a solu­tion that works for everybody," he said. 
In a letter to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar that was provided by Schweitzer's office, the Democratic gover­nor said state game wardens will be directed to stop investi­gating wolf shootings north of Interstate 90, the part of the state with the heaviest protec­tions for the animals. 
And he said he directed Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks to begin removing packs in the Bitterroot Valley south of Missoula that have been driving down elk populations. 
The state has a pending peti­tion before the Fish and Wildlife Service to remove a dozen wolves in the Bitterroot. 
A decision on that petition is pending, according to federal officials. Schweitzer indicated Wednesday that he was not going to wait, and would leave it to state wildlife agents to decide when to kill the wolves. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, February 17, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A lesson from Earnhardt 
Feb. 18,2001: MichaelWaltrip crossedthe finish line forhis firstwin in 462 consecutiveNASCAR races. Itwas Daytonaracing’s biggest stageand his brother,Daryl,madethe call fromthe broadcast booth, in tears. 
Fox Announcer: Daryl,is thisbetter than winningit? 
Daryl(intears and disbelief):Oh it’sbetter. This is … great. [Thena daunting silence.] I hope Dale’sokay. I 


Andrew 
guess he’s alright, 
Gastelum 
isn’the? 
He wasn’t. Sports 
Theliving leg-

Production 
end became a leg-
Editor 
end that after­noon, exactly 10 yearsago Friday. 

Thescenewas endearing, from the older brother’s tearsof joy to the younger Waltrip’sburdenfinally lifted off ofhisshoulders. 
Yetsomething was wrong, chillingly wrong. 
Of myyouth, I remember two moving moments in sportsperfectlyclear: 1) The NewOrleans Saints’ first home game followingHurricane Katrina and 
2)The Daytona 500 wherewe lost Dale Earnhardt Sr. 
Whywasa 9-year-oldkid who hadn’t ever seen a NASCARrace watching? The question still eerilyhits me today. 
Thecrashdidn’t evenlooktoo bad. The illustrious No. 3car, clipped from behind,lost controland went head-first into thewall. Noflips, no flames,no fire­works;afterall,we’veseen farworseon SportsCenter’s Top10. 
Yetsomething was wrong, terrifyingly wrong. 
Waltrip’s tears ofjoy soon reversed course, andthe world felt helplessas NASCAR’s supermanpassed away. 
Today, you stillseethe black hats with the white andred outlined “3,” or the stickers onthe back ofapickuptruck. But how do we go only 10yearssince his deathand still not feel itsimpactlike we dofor therespective, tragicpassings of LenBias andRoberto Clemente? 
Nonetheless, themanwas a celebrity, husbandand father. An image still runs inmy head ofthe young Dale Earnhardt Jr. celebrating hissecondplacefinish in his biggestrace,looking to celebrate with someone. Buttherewasn’tanyone anymore, as Junior soonspedoff to find his father. And I sithere,reflecting on how muchmy father meanstome, while feeling the utmost pity forthe petrifying, heart-dropping feeling that Junior expe­riencedat that moment, because it is probablythe most absolutely terrifying feeling someone could everhave. Ever. 
Thinkaboutit. 

Racing’s equivalent to MichaelJordan died doingthe thing that he loved,the wayheprobablywanted to go. 
Sohere I am 10yearslater,still nota NASCAR fan, yetrespectfulbeyond doubtof whatEarnhardt’s death means to usall. Just ashedidwhat he loved, weshould do the sameand encourage otherstodoso, because this couldsadly beone’s last moment. Thatisthe moral ofDale’s story,and itis ashame that it took me 10 years to figure itout. 
Something waswrong,horribly wrong. Butnow we canlearn,thanks to No. 3. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

Freedom for all 

Ever since the protests for political change have kicked up across the Arab world, my colleagues on the right wing have feared about the takeover of anti-
U.S. Islamic extremist groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood that we have seen in places like Iran, Palestine and oth­ers in the Middle East. These fears are unwarranted in my opinion. The basic definition of freedom is the 

Mark Easley 
ability to choose your own fate in 
Elephant in 
this world individ­
the Room 
ually and collec­tively. 

Freedom does not mean you are going to make the right or smart choices every time, but its success has been based on the fact that free peoples more often than not do make the right decisions. The con­servatives in this country have nothing to fear from a free Egypt, because there is still a good chance that it will turn into a great democracy. Many will deny it, but the greater good we originally sought to achieve with our military presence in the Middle East is coming to fruition. 
Tyrants are falling and nascent democ­racies are beginning to form in places that have never seen the phenomenon in centuries, if ever. We cannot measure or deny what the indirect role of having U.S. built democracies in the region is playing in this social and political upheaval we are now witnessing. Yes, our government has helped prop up some of the tyrants that are now threatened, but facts on the ground are changing and only now is American foreign policy beginning to catch up. 
For all our optimism, what if even the 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
good people of Egypt get turned by the evil of extremist theocracy? Well, at least we gave it a shot. The rise of political and militant Islam is an unfortunate, but com­mon occurrence in Islamic countries. They have tied a religious system into a political system that cannot be easily sep­arated. The dangers of this combination have already been revealed many times in the annals of history. Americans, pres­ent and future, will be forced to continue to the battle the followers of extremist Islam because those extremists are bent on our destruction. 
They seek the decline of the West and a return to relevance for their people. Many will claim that disdain for radical Islam is demagoguery, but this is an idea that needs to be changed in favor of more mainstream and peaceful ideology. Something is amiss when young American-born Muslims can be turned into terrorists by puppet masters over the internet. Ideas like National Socialism, authoritarian communism and tyrannical monarchy do not go away without words exchanged and blood being spilled. 
There is an upside to the rise of radical Islam on the world stage for those that seek the defeat of this old but newly pow­erful enemy. The fight becomes much easier when the enemy institutionalizes themselves instead of hiding in the shad­ows of crowds and the deep caves of mountains. War is easier to understand in the 20th century style of nation states, not in the guerrilla, non-conventional style of the 21st century. Monikers like Nazi Germany, Stalinist Russia, Imperial Japan, unstable North Korea and danger­ous Iran make it easier to point out the bad guys. 
The free people of Iran had a chance to choose their own fate in 1979 after the fall of the Shah and what they chose was an anti-American theocratic dictatorship that I predict will be at war with us with­in our lifetime. The ideology of the regime is too strong for something not to happen and for our side not to respond. Hezbollah and other militant groups maintain popular political support throughout the Arab world and can quickly step in to seize power if the status quo changes. Even in secular and demo­cratic Turkey, religiously-biased political parties are gaining ground. 

The Palestinians, in free elections, voted for their own Hamas “freedom fighters” (read terrorists) and as a result will continue to be at perpetual war with Israel. Time and time again Israel allows chances for peace, but the Palestinians fueled by a bloody history and unyielding ideology collectively choose to support Hamas, essentially extending the sword instead of the olive branch with their freedom. 
Now it is Egypt’s turn to decide what they will do with their freedom. Assuming a new strong man does not come to power, Egypt will have a chance to devel­op either a mostly secular democracy or a conservative theocracy that leans on Sharia Law and Islamic doctrines that clash with Western liberalism. 
The same choices apply to other Arab nations that are successful in their quest for social change. Will we see a new dawn of peace in the Middle East and the West or is a new Caliphate rising to seek to challenge the free world? 
It is not we who should be scared of a free Egypt and Middle East; it is the Egyptians and Middle Easterners who should be scared of a failed democratic revolution. 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Man is the only animal that laughsand weeps, for he is the only animalthat is struck with the difference between what things are and whatthey ought to be.” 
William Hazlitt English essayist 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“For all their strength, men were sometimes like little children.” 
Lawana Blackwell 
U.S. author 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 17, 2011 page 9 
Get well soon 
It is mid-February, and I do not need to tell you it has been a cold, snowy winter. No matter if you played snow football or curled up on your futon with hot choco­late, chances are your immune system is weakening. 
I spent the past Meg Mirshak weekend drinking 
Faithpoint 
liters of Powerade, eating multiple bowls of soup and taking doses of ibupro­fen for a sore throat among other ail­ments. Sunday seemed to be the turning point when I woke refreshed with less aches and pains. But it was too good to be true, as Monday brought a new round of sneezes and runny noses. 
As I stared down a busy week on my cal­endar, I felt overwhelmed. Colds are impossible to beat with long days and little rest. I could easily take a sick day from work, and my coworkers would greatly encourage me to stay at home. 
Yeah, right. The absolute last thing I can imagine doing when my calendar is jam packed would be taking a day off to sleep. How will the work get done? 
Many of you right now have the flu or common cold. For those of you without a low white-blood cell count, you might feel burnt out with classes or battling the win­ter blues. But your professor still expects you to be in class, meet for a group project and turn in a 10-page paper. You absolutely cannot lay on the futon because how will the work get done? 
I tell you what a wise friend told me: “All will be well, and all manner of thing will be well.” (My friend, Julian of Norwich, is a fourteenth century nun and writer.) 
At the end of the day, God is God. All will be well. 
Life can seem overwhelming. Society, especially at Notre Dame, pressures us to work at the highest capability. Do and do more is our mantra. Even then, our accomplishments seem insignificant. We sense our smallness in a vast world. Our bodies feel defenseless. 
In a physical sense, our body has the flu. Spiritually, our soul requires some tender, loving care. We must look for nourishment and sustenance, and Julian points us to God’s grace shared through Christ made man. God himself was made human, so that we might have his very being among us. 
We, like Christ, are dwelling places of God. The human heart is large enough to contain God. Our minds can hardly com­prehend how the all-present and all-knowing God makes His home in your heart. God is not bigger than us. God is in us. 
Remembering this is essential for our physical and spiritual well-being. We are created beings and we are at the center of God’s story. God made us, God loves us and God cares for us. Even when we feel most sick and weak and insufficient, we do not fall into nothingness. The infinite love of God saves us from harm. If we can­not rest in this wisdom, God’s peace can­not dwell in our hearts. 
Love yourself enough to rest. Your physi­cal body and your spiritual soul need heal­ing. When we sleep, we help our body fight off viruses and bacteria that are making us sick. Letting go of transgres­sions on our soul helps to make our heart a healthy dwelling place for God. There are dark corners of our heart that we think light will never reach. We feel the pain, we ache and we grow tired. God’s love and grace alone restores us to wellbe­ing. 

Rest knowing that even if you cannot “do and do more” God will take care of your needs. Rest in the belief that after Christ’s pain, He rose again and all things were made new. Take consolation in our Lord’s suffering and hear God say, “All will be well.” 
The work will get done. But if you are sick, the work will feel insufficient, unsat­isfactory and unfulfilling. Nurse yourself back to health. Pay attention to areas of your physical and spiritual self that need God’s nourishment. He made you in love, and he will care for you. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Meg Mirshak, an intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at mmirshak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Envisioning the next 10 years 
TheRobinsonCommunityLearning Centermarksits10-yearanniversarythis Friday,andourlocalcommunityand Universityhavemuchtocelebrate. Emergingin2001asapartnership 
between the  
Northeast  Jim Frabutt  
Neighborhood and the University, RCLC is a nexus for com- Guest Columnist  
munity empower­ 

ment,neighborhoodsocialcapitalandcom­munity-basedresearchandlearning. On theeveofthisoccasion,Ioffertwocom­mendationsandasetofobservationsand questionstoguidethewayforward. 
First,Icommendthosewhosetforththe boldvisiontoestablishajoint,community­basedneighborhoodinitiativeover10years ago. Universityandcommunityleaders suchasFr. Edward “Monk” Malloy,Fr. Don McNeil,Ms. MargueriteTaylorandcount­lessothersgavelifetoafledglingconcept, ensuringnotonlytheresourcestobuildit, butaresidentinformedapproachtogrow­ingandsustainingit. Manyofthekeystake­holdersinvolvedintheplanningandfound­ingofRCLCwillattestthattherewere indeedchallengestoovercome —historical distrust,turfissues,lackofcommunication andmore. Havingperseveredthrough thosechallenges,evenforgingnewpartner­shipsbecauseofthem,Ihopethatanyone whohadaroleinthelaunchofRCLCtakes prideinwhatithasbecome. 
WhatRCLChasbecomeleadsmetomy secondcommendation. TheRCLCstaff,for severalyearsundertheleadershipofJay CaponigroandnowledbyJenniferKnapp Beudert,makestirelesseffortseachand everydaytoenacttheboldvisionsetforth in2001. Ahostofresidents,undergraduate studentsandvolunteersassistthestaffas thefront-lineprovidersofprogramsand educationalopportunitiesthatreachover 500residentspermonth. Offeringsthat spanthelifecourseareahallmarkofRCLC: Asecondgraderattendingatutoringses-sioninreading,aNotreDamesophomore servinginTakeTen,theseniorresidents whoparticipateinbookclubandfitness activitiesandthegroupofyouthwhoper­formintheRobinsonShakespeare Company. Theseexamplesaretheliving embodiment —thehoped-forpotential realized —ofthefoundingvision. 
The10-yearmilestoneatRobinsonpro­videsamomentofopportunitybothtoeval­uatewhereweareasaUniversityinregard tocommunityengagementandtocharta pathwayforthenextdecade. Manyinstitu­tionsofhighereducation —inthiscountry andabroad —areexplicitlyandpowerfully re-committingtoscholarship,teachingand learningtoenhancecivicengagement. The verbiagesurroundingtheseeffortsdiffers dependingoneachinstitutionanditsmis­sion:publicscholarship,community­engagedscholarship,outreachscholarship, thescholarshipofengagement,action research,community-basedresearch,etc. Whilethenomenclaturevaries,somecen­tralpremisesofcommunityengagement areinvariant:Effortsarepredicatedon mutuallybeneficialoutcomesforcommuni­tiesanduniversities;communitieshave specializedexpertisetosharewithuniversi­ties;andthecollectivecapitalofthecom­munity-universitypartnershipiswell-suited tobothinnovationandaddressingsocial problems. 
Aswelookahead,weshouldacknowl­edgethatthereisalreadyadecided momentumatNotreDameregardingcom­munityengagement,evidencedbya2009 TaskForceonCommunityEngagementin St. JosephCounty,newlycreatedUniversity positions(namelyanassociatevicepresi­dentforPublicAffairsandadirectorof CommunityEngagement)andtherecent announcementthatNotreDamesuccessful­lyreceivedclassificationasa “community engagedinstitution” fromtheCarnegie FoundationfortheAdvancementof Teaching. Assemblingtheapplicationfor theCarnegiedesignationrevealedstrong pocketsofcommunityengagedscholarship, teachingandresearchinalmostevery CollegeandSchool. Insomecases,goals specifictocommunityengagementare wovenintodepartmentandschool-level strategicplans. Moreover,hubsofwisdom andexpertiseliketheCenterforSocial Concernshavebeenandcontinuetobe strongandpivotalcatalystsforcommunity engagementefforts. 
Buildinguponthesedevelopmentsand richassetsaswellasthelessonslearnedat RCLC,wearepoisedtodeepenourcommit­menttocommunityengagementevenfur­ther. Todoso,wemusttakeupahostof provocativeandintriguingquestions:Atan institutionlikeNotreDame,infusedaswe arewithadistinctCatholiccharacter,how does “faithinaction” permeatecommunity engagement?Areweappropriatelyatten­tivetothedemandsofauthenticpartner­ships,recognizinghowlongtheytaketo develop,fosterandmature?Howdowe measureandtrackcommunityengagement anditsimpactonstudents,facultyandthe community?Doweunderstandanduplift thebeneficialstudentoutcomesofservice learningand/orparticipatoryresearch?Do wesupportanddevelopfacultythatalready engageincommunity-basedresearchand teachingandassistthosewhowishto developsuchskills?Arewevigilantlyopen tootheropportunitiesandvenuesforpart­neringwithSouthBendneighborhoodsand schools?Engagingwithquestionssuchas theseallbutensurethatthenexttenyears ofcommunityengagementwillbelife-giv­ing,dynamicandtransformative. 

Iclosewithsomeborrowedlanguage fromtheRCLCfoundingdocument: “Ifwe aimtobeanexampleofChristintheworld, ifweintendtofoster,teach,andlivejustice, ifitisourmissiontoeducatestudentswho willleadsocietytoengagecommunity issues,thenwesimplycannotignoreboth thecommunitygiftsandneedsatour doorstep.” 
Congratulationsandthankyou,Robinson CommunityLearningCenter. Isay,let’scon­tinuetobeChristintheworld. 
Jim Frabutt is a faculty member in the Mary Ann Remick Leadership Program in the Alliance for Catholic Education. He serves on the Advisory Board of the Robinson Community Learning Center. He can be reached at jfrabutt@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Keenan should be proud 
StudentsofNotreDame: 

My name is Alex Deak, you may remember me as the skunk from “TheWorstMusicalEver,” ofthecritically-acclaimedanduncensored 2010 Revue. Let me preface this letter with the fact that I not only did not see the Revue, I have not even heard the content of the jokes involved. What I have seen is the strong character of the Keenan guys who are now sophomores, juniors and seniors. Having been involved with the Revue for several years, I know that the idea is never to hurt anyone or attack anyone personally. We just try to say what everyone’s thinking but afraid to say, except we do it on stage, oftendressedasanimalsorwomen. 
Our mantra, through all of the things that happened with Saint Mary’s and all of the content problems we have had in the past, has been that the show must go on. But Saturday’s situation was basical­ly impossible — only five skits uncensored? And the show went on. 
So, guys, you did a great job, and though I’m sure it wasn’t as funny aslastyear,I’mveryproudofhowyouhandledyourselves. 
My only words to you, SAO, are that you should be embarrassed. You dropped the ball here; you had every chance to view the materi­al beforehand and clearly didn’t. If any students were hurt by the jokes in the Revue, then I am sure that was not Keenan’s intention, and SAO should have prevented it from happening instead of being reactionary and throwing the Saturday show into question. I am as disappointedintheadministrationasIamproudoftheKeenanguys. Soguys,keepyourheadsup,andkeeptheRevuejustthewayitis. 
Alex Deak 
alumnus Class of 2010 Feb. 15 


The Observer 




Scene
page 10 Thursday, February 17, 2011 

MELISSA KADUCK I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Thursday, February 17, 2011 page 11 


MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 17, 2011 
NBA 


Sessions, Cavaliers take down struggling Lakers 
Heat’s Bosh scores 25 in his return to Toronto; Stoudamire’s 23 points help propel Knicks over Hawks 
reason for the Lakers to be wor-

Associated Press 
ried. 

CLEVELAND — Kobe Bryant Odom believes the Lakers coast slipped ablack backpack across againstlesserteams. his shoulders and left Quicken “That’s our problem overall,” Loans Arena without talking Odom said. “We take teams light­aboutwhathadjusthappened. ly at times. We play the cat and 
After losing to the lowly mouse game. Sometimes the cat Cleveland Cavaliers, nothing loses.” neededtobesaid. But as poorly as they played, 
The Lakers hit the All-Star the Lakers did cut a 10-point lead breakbroken. to two in the final minute. But 
Looking nothing like two-time Anthony Parker and Sessions defending NBA champions, they made two free throws apiece in dropped their third straight thelast17.9 seconds. game, a stunning 104-99 loss After the final horn, the Lakers Wednesday night to the Cavs -the walked slowly toward their locker league’s worst team, which room and a trip home not know-avenged a 55-point embarrass-ing what might happen next. ment against Los Angeles last With the trading deadline just a month. week away, the rumors involving 
The Lakers, who played so Denver star CarmeloAnthony will crisply and with purpose in likelyheatup. recent wins over New York and This much is clear: Lakers gen­Boston,lookabsolutelylost. eral manager Mitch Kupchak 
“It’s a painful, painful loss,” needs to do something to awaken said Pau Gasol, who had 30 histeam. points and 20 rebounds. “It’s very The Cavs, on the other hand, disappointing. I don’t understand reached the season’s unofficial it.” midpointon ahigh. 
Ramon Sessions came off the This was their best effort of the bench and scored a season-high season. They played with the 32 points for the Cavaliers, who energy coach Byron Scott wants were beaten 112-57 by the every night, and they gave their Lakers on Jan. 11. That loss -the dedicated fans a taste of what worst in club history -was No. 11 could be ahead. Beyond that, they in a league-record streak that somewhat erased the memory of eventually reached 26 before beingpummeledin LosAngeles. with 24 but no other Raptor had Even though the Heat are on a andhaven’t been above .500 this Cleveland ended it last week with “The only time you should be more than eight points. Toronto roll, Spoelstra is happy to give his late in a season since they fin-an overtime win against L.A.’s beating somebodyby50points is never led after the first six min-teamsome downtime. ished48-34in 2000-01. less-heralded squad,theClippers. on avideo game,” said forward utes and lost their 17th game in “We all couldprobably use this ButMike D’Antonibelieves they 
After his club’s worst loss this Antawn Jamison. “That night it 19. All-Star break right now, get a lit-will need to reach the 40-win season, coach Phil Jackson didn’t felt like we were in one. It shows “We tried different guys in tle bit of rest and get away and plateau to end a postseason tell his players anything other you when we focus for 48 min-there, even tried going big to see then make this final push in the drought that dates to 2004, so than what time they’re due to utes what we’re capable ofdoing. ifwe couldget one more scorer in final third of the season to really there’splentyofworkleft. reportforpracticeMonday. The biggest question is how do there, or at least get rebounds if take another step forward as a “We’ve got aways to go yet, but 
“I think they took the break we beconsistentdoingthat.” we weren’tgoingto getthat scor-team and try to find our ceiling,” at least we’ll have agood break beforethegame started,” hesaid. er,” Raptors coach Jay Triano he said. and get everybody back and 
Playing the finale of a seven-Heat 103, Raptors, 95 said. ready to make that stretch run of game road trip, the Lakers spent The Miami Heat banded togeth-Miami took an 88-79 lead on Knicks 102, Hawks 90 28 games that we need to play much of the night looking as if er to getChris Bosh awin against Wade’s3-pointplaywith6:37left. NEW YORK —Even after a fulltilt,” D’Antonisaid. they were already on vacation. hisformerteam. Bargnani made afree throw on a decade of futility, the New York Raymond Felton finished with They threw errant passes, forced Dwyane Wade scored 28 points, 3-second call, then he and Knicks aren’t satisfied with a win-13 points and 11 assists as the outside shots and couldn’t catch LeBron James had 23 points, 13 DeRozan hit back-to-back ningrecordattheAll-Starbreak. Knicks controlled the secondhalf the Cavs down the stretch despite rebounds and eight assists and jumpers as the Raptors cut it to They’re already focused on and beat Atlanta for the first time afranticcomeback. the Heat beat the Toronto 88-84with5:48 remaining. playing second-half games that inthreemeetingsthisseason. 
“It’s back to the drawing Raptors Wednesday night. James made 5 of 6 from the matter. Marvin Williams scored 17 board,” said Lamar Odom, who Bosh finished with 25 points line over the next two minutes, Amare Stoudemire scored 23 points for the Hawks, who lost for was asked what’s at the top of the and the Heat went into the All-giving the Heat a 93-87 lead with points, leading the Knicks into the the third time in four games and team’s to-do list. “Defense. Star breakhavingwon10of11. 3:53togo. All-Star break above .500 with a fell agame behind Orlando for Cohesiveness. Our chemistry on “I know firsthand how impor-After Bosh made 1of 2from victory overthe Atlanta Hawks on fourth place in the Eastern offense. I’m not that worried. I tant it is to finish strong going the line, missing for the first time Wednesday night. Conference. Mike Bibby had 15 thinkit’s things we canfix.” into the break,” James said. “You after hitting his first nine, “It was agreat win for us,” points, and Al Horford had 12 
Bryant finished with 17 points feelgood aboutAll-Star weekend, Bargnani answered with a3, Stoudemire said of his return pointsand11 rebounds. on 8-of-25 shooting. DerekFisher youwalk aroundfeelinggood.” making it 94-90 with 2:43 after missing a game with a “Wejusttotally wentawayfrom had 19 for the Lakers, who com-Before arriving in Toronto, the remaining. sprained right big toe. “We’ll take our game plan,” Hawks coach mitted 19 turnovers and enraged Heat had talked about winning James made another free something into the All-Star break, Larry Drew said. “We have a the normally tranquil Jackson, this one for Bosh. That sentiment throw and, after DeRozan missed that confidence that we needed recipe when we play on the road who screamed at them during was reinforced by a handwritten a reverse layup, Erick Dampier and now we just use that motiva-and I thought early the warning timeouts after inexcusable defen-note on the pregame scouting tipped in Wade’s miss, giving tion for the second half of the signs were there early in the first sivelapses. board that read “Band of Miamia 97-90leadwith1:50left. year.” quarter. Especially defensively. I 
Losing in Orlando on Sunday Brothers.” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said Wilson Chandler added 20 wasn’t as concerned offensively. was hardly reason for much con-“We wantedto be there for him his team “didjustenough.” points and Danilo Gallinari had Mymain concern was defensively. cern, but a 20-point setback in as a brother and a teammate,” “We’re all happy for Chris,” 17 for the Knicks, who at 28-26 We had multiple defensive break-Charlotte on Monday left both Jamessaid. Spoelstra said. “It was not our matched their average victory downs and then at the offensive Jackson and Bryant speechless. Andrea Bargnani scored 17 of best game but guys definitely total for the last five full seasons. end we just started settling. Being Now, aloss to the Cavaliers, who his 38points inthe fourthquarter wanted to band together and win They didn’t even earn their 28th on the road you have to get the are 3-37 since Nov. 27, is enough and DeMar DeRozan finished itforhim.” victory last season until April 6 shotsyou want.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we Dwight Schrute: Welcome to the Jim Halpert: You're not the manag-
FOR RENT OFF-CAMPUS Housing. NOTICES can help. For more information, visit Hotel Hell. Check-in time in now, er, even in your own fantasy? Notre Dames website: check-out time is never. Dwight Schrute: I'm the owner.. the http://csap.nd.edu Jim Halpert: Does my room have co-owner. With Satan! 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT Best luxury options at Dublin UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't ——————————————— cable? Jim Halpert: Okay, just so I under-RENTAL: House for rent for gradua-Village, Irish Crossings, Oak Hill go it alone. Notre Dame has many Ryan: Did this happen on company Dwight Schrute: No. And the sheets stand it. In your wildest fantasy, you tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. and North Shore Club. resources in place to assist you. If property? are made of fire. are in hell and you are co-running a Perfect location-right next to the you or someone you love needs Michael Scott: It was on company Jim Halpert: Can I change rooms? bed and breakfast with the devil. new Eddy Street Commons-walk to confidential support or assistance, property, with company property. Dwight Schrute: Sorry we're all Dwight Schrute: But I haven't told everything-safe family oriented CES Property Management. Call please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. So, double jeopardy, we're fine. booked up. Hell convention in town. you my salary yet. street. Email nd-house@sbcglob-574-298-4206, www.cespm.info For more information, visit ND's Ryan: I don't think-- I don't think you Jim Halpert: Can I have a late Jim Halpert: Go. al.net for additional info and photos website at: http://pregnancysup-understand how jeopardy works. check-out? Dwight Schrute: Eighty thousand 
port@nd.edu Michael Scott: Oh, I'm sorry. What Dwight Schrute: I'll have to talk to dollars. is, 'we're fine'? the manager. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, February 17, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MLB 



Mattingly begins new job 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Don Mattingly opened his first spring training camp as a major league manager, saying he wasn’t concerned with how his Los Angeles Dodgers wore their hair or what music they played in the clubhouse. 
Side issues aside, the rookie manager also made an announcement Wednesday: Clayton Kershaw will start on opening day. 
Mattingly said he made the decision shortly after he found out he would succeed Joe Torre. Kershaw will pitch March 31 against the World Series champion San Francisco Giants. 
“He has the opportunity to be special,” Mattingly said. 
The Dodgers officially appointed Mattingly in mid-September after Torre said he was retiring. 
“There’s been no talk about the ownership situation. There’s no effect in that club­house,” he said. 
As for his la ers 


py, err
“I’d rather have guys 
Mattingly said because of a 
Matt Kemp is stay in their positions. disagreement coming off a I’d rather move one over hair “rough year” length. 
guy, not two.” 
but remains the Matti ngly center fielder — said he felt “I don’t see any Don Mattingly he’d been sin-
reason to move Dodgers manager gled out and 
him,” Mattingly said. 
Andre Ethier returns in right, leaving the Dodgers to settle on a left-fielder this spring. 
“I’d rather have guys stay in their positions. I’d rather move one guy, not two,” Mattingly said. 
Jonathan Broxton will be the 
subject of a rehabilitation project by Mattingly ’s staff after the closer’s decline in last season’s sec­ond half. 
Broxton is “in a good frame of mind. I think he’s going to pitch well. I’m counting on it,” Mattingly players. This comes from a for­
mer All-Star who had to sit out a game in 1991 under Yankees man­ager Stump M ill 

Dodgers, what with the uncer-said. “Last year is last year, it’s tain ownership situation. gone. All you can do is learn 
“Not at all. This is a great from it.” franchise. We’ve got talent. Regarding off-the-field items, For me, I couldn’t have asked Mattingly said he’s not worried for a better opportunity.” about the hairstyles of his blind -sided 

just before a 
game with a 
demand to cut his hair, rather than being advised to do so the day before. 
“The only thing I have with hair is if it gets in the way,” he said. “If you can’t see the ball, then it’s a problem.” 
“I’m not concerned about peripherals unless it’s a prob­lem. I’m concerned that we’re ready to play.” 
As a big leaguer, Mattingly said he kept track of all his managers’ traits, both “good and bad.” 
Billy Martin was “just a fierce competitor,” he said, yet a leader who took a relatively relaxed approach to spring training. 
“But when the bell rang and those games started counting, he was a different animal. I liked that.” 
On the downside, Mattingly recalled he could go 0-for-4 and Martin would act as though “you’d stolen from him and he looked at you like, ‘You make me sick.’” 
MLB 


Brewers agree to deal with infelder Weeks 
Promoted from hitting coach, the 49-year-old former Yankees star takes over a team that went 80-82 last sea­son. 
Mattingly bat­ted away any suggestion that now isn’t the greatest time to manage the 

“There’s been no talk about the ownership situation. There’s no effect in that clubhouse.” 
Don Mattingly Dodgers manager 
Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE — After a record-breaking season, the Milwaukee Brewers took the risk that Rickie Weeks’ injury -plagued career is firmly in the past. 
Weeks agreed to a $38.5 million, four-year contract with the Milwaukee Brewers on Wednesday that contains a 2015 option which could increase the total value to $50 million. 
“We are thrilled that Rickie has chosen to remain a Brewer,” general manager Doug Melvin said. “He has become one of the best leadoff hitters in the game today; possessing speed, plate discipline and power. His aggressive style sets the tone for our offense.” 
Weeks, the No. 2 overall draft pick in the 2003 ama­teur draft, was a day from an arbitration hearing after saying last month he would end long -term contract talks with the team when he reported to spring training. 
The 28-year-old proved too valuable to pass up. 
“It feels good. It feels real good at a time like this,” Weeks said. “Players leave teams often. It ’s one of those things where it hap­pens a lot around baseball, football and basketball. It feels good that I’m going to have security.” 
After making $2.85 mil­lion last year, he sought $7.2 million in arbitration, while the team offered $4.85 million. 
Weeks hit .269 with 29 homers, 83 RBIs and 112 runs in 160 games as the Brewers’ primary leadoff hitter last year, shattering most of the franchise’s marks for a second base­man while putting up the best power numbers in his career. 
He has a simple explana­tion for why. 
“If you stay healthy, good things happen,” Weeks said. “I don’t set expectations on really anything. I just want to go out there, play good baseball for us and stay healthy.” 
The organization has never questioned his tough­ness, but his durability had been the biggest issue until last season. Weeks missed half of a year with right wrist surgery in 2006, needed a procedure on his knee after 2008 and played all but 37 games in 2009 after a left wrist injury. 
“Rickie is also one of the toughest players to play the game and has always played at a high-intensity level,” Melvin said. 
That led to a creative option in the fifth year of the contract. 
Weeks will receive a $4 million signing bonus, of which $1.5 million is payable upon approval and $2.5 million on July 15. He will receive salaries of $3.5 million this year, $10 mil­lion in 2012, $10 million in 2013 and $11 million in 2014. 
Weeks’ option year is for $11.5 million, but the club can void 2015 if he does not make 600 plate appear ­ances in 2014 or 1,200 plate appearances over 2013-14 combined. 
Weeks broke the franchise record last year with 754 plate appearances. 
Milwaukee’s projected starting lineup and starting rotation is under contract or team control through the 2012 season other than slugger Prince Fielder, who can become a free agent after the World Series. 
Weeks was a key in Milwaukee’s plans. 
The Brewers traded their best other option at second base when they sent top prospect Brett Lawrie to Toronto for right-hander Shaun Marcum in December. Negotiations with Weeks’ agent were steady throughout. 
“It was one of those things, if the time was right, it would get done,” Weeks said. “It’s good. It means I’m a Milwaukee Brewer for a long period of time now.” 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2011 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 



Pittsburgh wins again with late run 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Nasir Robinson and Brad Wanamaker each had 13 points and No. 4 Pittsburgh pulled away over the final 10 minutes to beat South Florida 67-55 on Wednesday night. 
The Panthers (24-2, 12-1) won for the 14th time in 15 games and took a two-game lead in the Big East — but it wasn’t as easy as expected against. 
Bulls (8-19, 2-12) lost their fifth consecutive game and fell to 0-9 against ranked teams, but were within a point of the Panthers in the second half. 
Playing without leading scorer Ashton Gibbs (left knee) for the third consecutive game, Pitt led 45-44 before going on a 15-2 run to ensure its fifth win in a row. 
Shaun Noriega had 11 points to lead the Bulls. 
USF was dominated by Notre Dame in its most recent game 78-55 on Saturday, but the Bulls had lost by more than 10 points only three times previously this season and beat Pitt in Tampa last season. USF went out to a 14-10 lead Wednesday. 
The final time USF would lead would be at 16-14 with about 11 minutes left in the first half. The Panthers immediately went on a 16-4 run to take a 10-point lead. 
Talib Zanna, who had scored a total of three points in the pre­vious six games, scored eight Pitt points in a row midway through the first half. He had 11 points at halftime — already the third-most of his career for a game. 
Gilbert Brown also had 11 points for the Panthers, who had a 40-18 advantage in rebounds. 
Gibbs is practicing with the team and is expected to play in Pitt’s next game, at St. John’s on Saturday. He leads the Panthers in scoring (16.3 ppg), but where he has been missed most is from 3-point range. Pitt made only two 3-pointers after making only one in each of the first two games — wins at West Virginia and Villanova — without him. Gibbs averages more than three per game. 
Coming off a career-high 23 points Saturday, Noriega had consecutive 3-pointers late in the first half to allow the Bulls to trim their biggest deficit to that point — 36-23 — to seven at halftime. USF then scored six of the first eight points of the sec­ond half to pull within 38-35 and force Pitt coach Jamie Dixon to use a timeout. 
With the score 46-44 with 9 minutes to play, USF was called for offensive fouls on consecu­tive possessions. 
Noriega had a steal and chance at a layup to tie it with 
7:41 left, but Travon Woodall hustled back and altered the shot, forcing a miss. 
Seconds later, Gary McGhee converted a three-point play and Wanamaker hit a 3-pointer on the ensuing Pitt possession to give the Panthers an eight-point lead. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Purdue wins important conference home game 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — JaJuan Johnson had 20 points and E’Twaun Moore scored 19 to help No. 11 Purdue beat No. 10 Wisconsin 70-62 on Wednesday night. 
Lewis Jackson added 18 points and five assists for the Boilermakers. Jackson scored just one point when Wisconsin beat Purdue 66-59 at home on Feb. 1. 
Purdue (21-5, 10-3 Big Ten) moved into sole possession of second place in the confer­ence. The Boilermakers, now 14-0 at home, host league leader Ohio State on Sunday. 
Johnson, who has scored at least 20 points in nine of his past 10 Big Ten games, also had 10 rebounds and four blocks. 
Jon Leuer scored 23 points and Jordan Taylor added 15 for the Badgers (19-6, 9-4), who had won four straight — including a victory over then-No. 1 Ohio State at home on Saturday. 
Leuer and Taylor combined to shoot 16 for 27 from the field, but the rest of the Badgers were 8 for 32. 
A pair of free throws by Ryan Evans cut Purdue’s lead to 58-56 with 3:55 to play, but Moore stopped the rally with a floater, then a 3-pointer that pushed it back to 63-56 with just more than 2 minutes left. 
Wisconsin led 10-4 before Purdue responded with a 14-4 run. Moore gave Purdue its first lead with a 3-pointer after Jackson flipped the ball back to him on a fast break. 
Leuer picked up his second foul with 7:42 left in the first half, and Wisconsin didn’t make a field goal for nearly 4¼ minutes. A layup and 3­pointer by Jackson helped Purdue push its lead to 29-22, and the Boilermakers led 31­25 at halftime. 
Early in the second half, Jackson got a steal and start­ed a fast break. Moore took off from the side, cocked the ball behind his head with his right hand and slammed it home to give Purdue a 35-27 lead and send the crowd into a frenzy. 
Purdue took off on another fast break, and Kelsey Barlow scored and was fouled. He converted the free throw to give the Boilermakers a 44-34 lead. 


Thursday, February 17, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 


Blue Devils win ffth straight game 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Sputtering offensively, Duke relied on its defense and Nolan Smith to beat Virginia for the seventh straighttime. 
Smith had 22 points, seven rebounds and four assists to lead the fifth-ranked Blue Devils to a 56-41victoryWednesdaynight. 
The Blue Devils (24-2, 11-1) won their fifth straight overall, despite getting only two points from second-leading scorer Kyle Singler and being held to their lowest scoring output of the sea­son. 
“You know, points were hard to come by,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. “Their defense was good. I thought ours was a littlebitbetter. 
“Again, Nolan was a huge dif­ference in the game. To get 22 points in a game like this is a lot ofpoints. It’salotofpoints.” 
Singler was in foul trouble for much of the game and didn’t score his first bucket until the 16­minutemarkofthesecondhalf. 
Krzyzewski lauded the defen­sive performance of sophomore big man Ryan Kelly, who also chippedinwith11points. 
“They started the four perime­ter guys and could really shoot the 3, and we had to have one of our big guys guard (Joe) Harris,” he said. “And Ryan was on him most of the time, and I thought did a really, really nice job because he’s a very good player, and our defense of the 3 was good.” 
Virginia was 3 of 12 from behind the arc and Mustapha Farrakhan led the Cavaliers with 11points. 
Duke took command early in the second half, building on an eight-point halftime lead by hold­ing Virginia to one field goal over thefirsteightminutes. 



Henley 
continued from page 20 
point of the second half with 
10:44 remaining, they had already committed nine team fouls — one away from the double bonus. The Saint Mary’s (17-7, 10-5) parade to the free throw line soon ensued. 
In the second half, the Belles shot 15-for-20 from the line and finished the game 25-for-31. After junior guard Maggie Ronan’s made free throw in the first half, the 2010-11 Belles set a new pro­gram record for most free throws made in a season, sur­passing 2008-09’s mark of 
484. This win also ties the school record for most wins in a season, also set by the 2008-09 team. 
The Belles once again kept a balanced attack on offense, putting four players into dou­ble figures Junior forward Kelley Murphy scored a game-high 18 points on 7-for­12 shooting and pulled down a game-high nine rebounds Junior guard Patsy Mahoney also chipped in 13 points while moving into fourth place for free throws made in a single season by any Belles player. 
A season-long goal, Saint Mary’s outscored Adrian 38­18 in the paint. 
“We have the height advan­tage with our post players,” Henley said. “We were able to take advantage of how Adrian was playing us and we started converting in the paint.” 
Saint Mary’s extended its winning streak to three games and has now won eight of their past 10 games. The Belles have one remaining conference game this week­end, when they travel to Kalamazoo for the finale of both teams’ regular seasons. 
“This game definitely gives us a little bit more confidence defensively,” Henley said. “This game set the tone for our last game.” 
Saint Mary’s will close the regular season against Kalamazoo before returning home and hosting a MIAA tournament game. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Watson 
continued from page 20 
earned first place finishes in both the 1000-yard freestyle (11:04.69) and the 500-yard freestyle (5:25.39). Dalrymple gar­nered a first in the 200­yard breaststroke by four seconds (2:31.23) and the 200-yard Individual Medley (2:18.51). She also finished second in the 100­yard breaststroke by just 34 hundredths of a second with a time of 1:11.39. 
Dalrymple and Watson will headline the Belles’ effort this weekend amidst a very competitive MIAA league, including Albion and Olivet, the host schools for the event, and Calvin, the 2010 MIAA champion. 
The meet runs Thursday through Saturday, with preliminary heats begin-

Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 

The Blue Devils’ Mason Plumlee ond-halfpoints. drew an offensive foul on Harris Virginia (12-13, 3-8), which on one end, then dunked on the dropped under .500 for the first othertoputDukeup41-30. time this season, has lost three 
Duke held Virginia to 15 sec-straight. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2011 
MLB 




Cardinals unable to reach deal with Pujols 
Associated Press 
JUPITER, Fla. — The St. Louis Cardinals made Albert Pujols what they said was their best offer. 
It wasn’t enough. 
So get ready, baseball: Pujols seems headed for the open mar­ket next fall. 
The deadline Pujols set for the Cardinals to reach a new con­tract agreement passed Wednesday with no deal, making it likely the three-time MVP will become a free agent after the World Series. The Cardinals said they will respect Pujols’ wishes and not request more talks dur­ing the season, unless their first baseman surprisingly changes his mind. 
“A difference of opinion in determining Albert’s value sim­ply could not be resolved,” said Pujols’ agent, Dan Lozano. 
The Cardinals would not reveal their offer, though it was believed to be somewhere around $200 million for eight years, possibly with an opportunity for Pujols to obtain an ownership stake in the franchise once his playing days are complete. 
When — and if — talks resume, it’s unclear if St. Louis will increase its offer to Pujols’ liking. 
“We explored a number of dif­ferent things in the negotiation,” Cardinals chairman William DeWitt Jr. said at a news confer­ence. “Without getting specific in what those were, there was dis­cussion about other things that could be part of the contract. ... You can be sure that we explored a number of different avenues.” 
Pujols will make $16 million this season in his contract’s final year, with $4 million of the money deferred with no interest. A nine-time All-Star, Pujols is the only player in major league his­tory to hit 30 or more home runs each of his first 10 seasons — all with the Cardinals, the franchise he’s previously said he wants to remain with for the rest of his career. 
Now, that hardly seems like a lock. 
“I don’t think there’s a better guy for us to have on the team,” Cardinals teammate Skip Schumaker said. “He’s the face of the franchise. You respect both sides of it. You respect what the Cardinals are doing, you respect the management and what Albert’s agent is doing. It’s a tough situation, as everybody knows. He’s an iconic player.” 
Pujols is expected to be in Cardinals’ camp on Thursday, two days ahead of when position players were asked to report. Lozano said Pujols does not want to discuss his contract status either now or during the season. 
Nor, for that matter, does St. Louis manager Tony La Russa. 
“We don’t want to get our minds cluttered as a team,” La Russa said. “There’s enough to do. ... The competition in the Central and the National League has got our complete attention. And that’s just what we’re going to think about. You can choose what you think about. That’s what we’re going to think about.” 
Already, there’s buzz around baseball on where Pujols could go. A big-spending club like the Red Sox, Yankees or Angels? Perhaps the rival Cubs? The Texas Rangers? 
Before the first pitch of the season, the first debate of the 2011 offseason is underway. 
“Goes on the open market, who knows what he’ll get?” said Cubs right-hander Braden Looper, a former Pujols teammate. 
Added Rockies right-hander Aaron Cook: “I’m surprised something didn’t get done. He has the right to become a free agent and get what he wants. I hope for their sake it doesn’t become a distraction.” 
The only absolute in the process, it seems, is what the Cardinals will give. 
In short, they aren’t prepared to set records. The team’s payroll this season will be between $100 million and $110 million, DeWitt said, noting that the Cardinals lack the revenue streams to keep up with baseball’s biggest check­books. 
“We’re not the Yankees or the Red Sox or the clubs that have revenues multi-tens of millions of dollars greater than ours,” he said. “How they react remains to be seen. They’re great fans. They’re the best in baseball. To draw the way we draw in a mar­ket the size of ours is extraordi­nary. No one else can do it. Cardinal fans, they step up year in and year out.” 
There is no framework for a deal in which St. Louis would get the right of first refusal on any future Pujols offer. Still, the Cardinals believe a deal can eventually get done — and aren’t fearing that it will turn into a sit­uation where Pujols simply winds up playing for the highest bidder. 


“We know what we can do and what we can’t do,” general man­ager John Mozeliak said. “When you operate in that way, you tend not to make bigger mistakes.” 
The closest Pujols came to an appearance at camp Wednesday morning was a sighting of his black pickup with Missouri license plates in the parking lot of the team’s spring training complex. 


Thursday, February 17, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 


Randall 
continued from page 20 
said. “All the kids were very smart but they were at the age where doing the wrong thing was ‘cool.’ Our biggest goal was to show them that it was ‘cool’ to do the right thing, and in order to go to college you had to do the right thing.” 
Throughout the fall semester, junior and senior team mem­bers also attended mass at St. Augustine Church in South Bend every Sunday. 
“The mass was distinctly dif­ferent from any I had previously attended,” junior defenseman Kevin Randall said. “Due to the small size, the offering of a sign of peace allowed us to meet nearly every parishioner.” 
Following mass, the Irish players and St. Augustine Youth Group would form two teams and play a game of flag football. 
“Our goal for doing all of this was to get involved with the community by putting on a fun activity the kids could look for­ward to,” junior midfielder Max Pfeifer said. “In addition to averaging roughly 3 TD passes a game to my main receiver Xavier — the fastest 14-year-old I’ve ever seen — I genuinely had a blast playing around with these kids every Sunday, and you could tell that they were having a good time, too.” 
The Irish switched from flag football to lacrosse on an occa­sional Sunday because the chil­dren showed great interest in learning the game that their new friends play. 
“Some days we would bring lacrosse sticks and see how they liked the sport and throwing around, but most of the time it was football,” senior midfielder and co-captain David Earl said. “We played our team versus [their team] and lost a bunch of times; they were super fast and quick.” 


In collaboration with the men’s basketball team and Campus Ministry, Irish assistant coach Kevin Dugan helped to coordinate the event Playing for Peace at the Joyce Center one Saturday morning in December during study days. 
“[Dugan] helps run an organi­zation in Uganda called Fields of Growth, which teaches kids to learn valuable life lessons along with playing lacrosse,” senior defenseman and co-captain Kevin Ridgway said. “Playing for Peace was an amazing cre­ation, considering it came together in about two weeks, and the event was held during study days. 
“Each member of our team went and talked individually to a dorm earlier in the week and then led them to the rally on Saturday. It was a great turnout and we really appreciated the support from the student body even though it was such a busy time of the year for everybody.” 
Junior attacker Nick Beattie said he learned a lesson from the rally. 
“I took away from this that if you’ve got a passionate group working collectively for change, you can make an impact,” he said. “It doesn’t have to be in dollars raised, but in awareness gained.” 
Corrigan believes that serving the local community provides the Irish with opportunities to grow as a team. 
“One of the things I love most about coaching at Notre Dame is the authentic sense of cama­raderie and fellowship our team enjoys; they really enjoy each other’s company,” Corrigan said. 
“A selfless, team first attitude is what enabled us to make our run to the National Championship last year. When you have that attitude, the team transcends the individual, and you are capable of realizing your full potential.” 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 




Wright scores 20 in home win 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Cashmere Wright scored 20 points, Sean Kilpatrick added 18 and Cincinnati bolstered its NCAA tournament resume with a 63-54 victory over No. 16 Louisville on Wednesday. 
Embattled junior forward Yancy Gates added eight points and six rebounds for the Bearcats (20-6, 7-6 Big East), who smothered the Cardinals to reach the 20-win plateau for the first time since 2006. 
Terrence Jennings led Louisville (19-7, 8-5) with 12 points but the Cardinals turned it over 15 times and never got into a rhythm in the face of Cincinnati’s tough defense. 
Louisville shot a respectable 47 percent from the floor but made just four of 17 3-pointers, five below its season average. 
The Bearcats never trailed and led by as many as 15 early in the second half. Louisville cut the deficit to 43-38 with 13:15 to play but the Bearcats responded with seven quick points to beat the Cardinals for the second straight time. 
Gates, who was suspended for a game earlier this month and benched in the second half of a loss to St. John’s on Sunday, pro­vided some energetic play off the bench, but it was Wright who starred. 
The sophomore hit a number of big shots, including a twisting layup just before the shot clock expired to give Cincinnati a 56­43 lead with just more than 6 minutes to play. Louisville never threatened again. 
The Cardinals have been one of the Big East’s biggest surprises, entering the game in a tie for third in the conference despite a slew of injuries coach Rick Pitino has called the “most annoying” of his long career. 
Louisville is finally healthy, and Pitino said Tuesday he was eager to see what the Cardinals could do with a full complement of players. 
For a game at least, the answer apparently was “not much.” 
Cincinnati’s defense had plenty to do with it. Pitino called the previous matchup — a 69-66 win by the Bearcats in last year’s Big East tournament, the “ugliest” game in the history of Madison Square Garden. 
Things weren’t much prettier on Wednesday, though you won’t hear Cincinnati complaining after the two rivals spent 40 min­utes tussling all over the Fifth-Third Arena floor. 
The Bearcats played with an urgency they’ve lacked of late as the drama surrounding Gates coincided with disheartening home losses to West Virginia and the Red Storm. 
All, however, appeared to be forgiven by the time Gates checked in to a round of applause about 4 minutes in. The Bearcats went right to him and he scored an early basket as Cincinnati controlled play from the outset, using an 11-0 run fueled by some energetic defense and stellar shooting by Wright to take a quick 18-6 lead. 
The Bearcats attacked Louisville’s matchup zone relent­lessly on offense, then bottled up the Cardinals at the other end of the floor. Louisville missed its first four 3-pointers and looked disorganized at times with start­ing point guard Peyton Siva miss­ing most of the half with foul trouble. 
Freshman Elisha Justice even­tually followed Siva to the bench with two fouls of his own, forcing Preston Knowles to run the point. 
It failed to spark the Cardinals, and Cincinnati rolled into the break with a 36-24 edge, halfway to the quality win it desperately needed to bolster its hopes of making the NCAAs for the first time since 2005. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2011 
NHL 


Kovalchuk scores to lead Devils to win 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — A revived Ilya Kovalchuk scored his 20th goal of the season and sixth in seven games and the New Jersey Devils took another step in their unlikely playoff push with a 3-2 victory over the Carolina Hurricanes on Wednesday night. 
Brian Rolston and Patrik Elias blew the game open with goals early in the third period as the Devils won for the 13th time in 16 games and moved within 12 points of eighth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Johan Hedberg made 25 saves for New Jersey, which was 27 points below the postseason cut­off line heading into its game against Tampa Bay on Jan. 9. The Devils are 13th in the East. 
Sergei Samsonov scored for eighth-place Carolina, which opened and closed its five-game road trip (1-3-1) with losses at New Jersey. Tuomo Ruutu scored with 2.8 seconds to play to make it 3-2. 
Kovalchuk, who had scored the winning goal in the Devils’ previ­ous two games, put New Jersey ahead for good in this one with a great effort. 
Kovalchuk took a pass along the goal line from Nick Palmieri, skated out to the left point and then turned and skated back into the left circle. Once he got to the top of the circle, he hit the brakes to shake off Joe Corvo, waited for the defenseman to get back into the play and then used him as a screen on a shot that beat Cam Ward to the glove side. 
Kovalchuk then played to the crowd, going to a knee and rub­bing the ice as the crowd chant­ed ‘Kovy, Kovy, Kovy’ for the $100 million man they loved to boo when things were bad earli­er this season. 
Hedberg started his fourth straight game in place of Martin Brodeur, who is sidelined with a sprained right knee. He came up big to keep New Jersey ahead the rest of the period, stopping Jerome Samson twice in close and Erik Cole once. 
The Swede also got a break when Eric Staal missed the net in the closing seconds of the period with a shot while all alone from between the circles. 
Rolston and Elias gave the Devils a three-goal lead in the opening 1:59 of the final period. 
After Hedberg stopped a shot from the left circle by Joni Pitkanen, the Devils counterat­tacked. Defenseman Anssi Salmela set up a chance in close by Elias. Ward made the save, but Rolston got the rebound between the circles and back­handed the puck into an open corner at 34 seconds. 
Elias got his 14th of the season less than 90 seconds later, taking a cross-ice pass from Rolston at the Hurricanes blue line, skating around a defender and beating Ward with a backhander in close. 
Hedberg’s bid for his second shutout of the season ended at 
8:17 when Jiri Tlusty gained con­trol of the puck after a faceoff to the left of Hedberg, skated behind the net and found Samsonov for a tap-in from the crease. 

Aoki 
continued from page 20 
ment regional appearance in 42 years and nearly knocked off national power Texas in a 25-inning game that would have sent Boston College to its first super regional appear­ance in school history, but the Eagles fell short. Aoki and his staff will seek to revitalize the Irish, and thus far he believes the transition has been well-received. 
“It seems to me that me and my staff have been well-received by the players, and I think they’ve done a good job thus far,” Aoki said. “I think it’s been a pretty good transi­tion for all of us. The adminis­tration has been very support­ive, and the alumni as well as the people in the community I have met.” 
Senior shortstop and captain Mick Doyle echoed the coach’s sentiments, citing Aoki’s ener­gy in practice. 
“The biggest difference between Coach Aoki and Coach Schrage is coach’s ener­gy in practice,” he said. “It really helps get us up for prac­tice.” 
Engineering the turnaround this season will be a balanced and young roster led by Doyle and fellow captain and start­ing pitcher Brian Dupra. Though Aoki has not finalized his starting lineup, he said that Doyle, sophomore second baseman Frank DeSico, center fielder Charlie Markson, and freshman infielder Eric Jagielo would likely see time in the starting nine. Aoki said his team will feature strong pitch­ing and defense. 
“Our strengths are going to be pitching and infield defense,” he said. “We have some older pitchers who know how to throw strikes and exe­cute a gameplan.” 

The coach added that in order for his team to achieve success this season, they would need to stay healthy. 
“Our only glaring weakness is depth. I’ve been saying to people that we can win 35­plus games, but if we suffer the wrong injury we could struggle to win 15. So hopeful­ly the luck of the Irish is on our side with injuries.” 
The Irish begin their 2011 campaign this weekend in Florida, for three games in the Big East-Big Ten Baseball Challenge against Michigan 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Walker scores 31 points in win over Georgetown 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Kemba Walker had 31 points, 10 assists and seven rebounds to lead No. 13 Connecticut to a 78-70 victo­ry over No. 9 Georgetown on Wednesday night, snapping the Hoyas’ eight-game win­ning streak. 
Jamal Coombs-McDaniel had 23 points in his second straight big game for the Huskies (20-5, 8-5 Big East), who had lost three of their last five, including two at home. 
Chris Wright had 19 points for the Hoyas (20-6, 9-5), who went on their winning streak after starting confer­ence play 1-4. 
Walker had a highlight reel full of incredible drives to the basket, with the 6-foot-1 jun­ior going under, around and sometimes it seemed through bigger defenders. 
Georgetown’s last lead was at 70-69 on a basket by Austin Freeman with 4:01 left. But that was the Hoyas’ last field goal of the game as the Huskies closed on a 9-0 run with Walker scoring the first three points of it. 
The game was a matchup of two of the top candidates for conference player of the year in Walker, who is second in the league in scoring at 22.8, and Freeman, who is third with an 18.5 average. This one went to Walker in a walkaway. 
It wasn’t just the points Walker scored, it was how he scored them. 
With 13 minutes to play, he was covered by 6-10 Henry Sims on a switch. Walker faked a move to get Sims to one side and threw the ball hard off the backboard, jumped into the lane ahead of everybody else, grabbed the rebound and tossed it in from about 4 feet to make it 53-46. 
The sellout crowd of 16,294 at the XL Center was sudden­ly alive because of Walker and he didn’t let them down. 
A minute later he drove through two defenders and flipped the ball in to give the Huskies a 57-48 lead. 
His third amazing move came with 8 minutes left, just after a technical foul was called against Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun. 
State, Purdue, and Penn State. In a glimpse of the winning attitude he is bringing to the program, Aoki made his goals very simple for his first week­end at the helm of the Irish program. 
“I want three wins,” Aoki said. “These games count on our record. What I want out of the weekend are three wins.” 
The Irish play the Spartans at 4 p.m. Friday, Purdue Saturday at 4 p.m. and Penn State at 10 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 17, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRI ARNOLD

James Sollitto, Cody Eckert and John Flatley 
JUMBLE
PLEASANDVILLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Scott Mitchell and Matt Momont 
THE MATING RITUAL 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, February 17, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Chasing a title 
Notre Dame looks to build 

on last year’s near title  
By MEGAN GOLDEN  
Sports Writer  
Though the Irish have been  
eagerly awaiting their national  
championship rematch against  
Duke this weekend, the off-sea­ 
son provided the team with a  
chance to intensify their efforts  
for charity through the local  
community as well as through  
the Notre Dame student body.  
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan  
initiated a mentoring program  
in which Notre Dame team  
members spent time with stu­ 
dents at Marshall Middle  
School. Junior attacker Sean  
Rodgers said the team members  
served as role models for the  
students by spending quality  
time with them and developing  
trust in one another as friends.  
“For the most part we dealt  
with kids who were often in  
trouble or lacked a male role  
model in their life,” Rodgers  Observer File Photo  
see RANDALL/page 17  Senior David Earl chases an opponent during a match against Providence last season. The Irish midfielder returns for his final year after a busy offseason with teammates.  

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles hope for win at tournament 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
The Belles (1-5) will wrap up their season this weekend at the annual Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) champi­onships, an event hosted by Jenison High School in Jenison, Mich. 
Though the Belles have struggled this season, there have been bright spots. The team earned a victory against Alma on Jan. 29, their first dual meet win since Jan. 17, 2010, when the Saint Mary’s defeated Albion. 
Junior Audrey Dalrymple and sophomore Ellie Watson have also provided some impressive performances throughout the season. In the win over Alma, Watson 
see WATSON/page 15 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Doubles teams continue to provide crucial victories for Irish 
[seniors] Stephen [Havens] and Irish did not earn the doubles Bayliss said adding a new addi-He added that winning at the top 
By KATE GRABAREK 

Tyler [Davis] were going to be a pointswasagainstNo.1Virginia. tion to the lineupin freshman Greg is difficult as you are always facing 
Sports Writer 

potent combo because they have TheIrishreturnedtheirfullvarsi-Andrewshasalsohelpedthelineup theotherteamsbestplayers. 
good skills and plenty of experi-ty startinglineupfrom last season getanewperspective. “Nine matches into our schedule 
The No. 25 Irish have earned all ence, but the maturation of [junior] which Bayliss said is helping their “Greg Andrews has been all that Casey Watt has already played sev­theavailabledoublespointsineach Niall[Fitzgerald] and[sophomore] improveddoublesplay.Hesaidthey we expected and we expected a eralplayerswhoaregoingtobeAll of their matches except one this Spencer [Talmadge]has been great are also becoming more comfort-lot,”Baylisssaid.“Hehasbeenrock Americansthisyear,ashasStephen season, something Irish coach to see. They are doing aterrific job able around the net with the solidanddemonstratedpoiseinthe Havens,”Baylisssaid. BobbyBayliss said has been and of reading returns and cuttingballs increasedlevels of experience they faceofsignificantadversity.” TheIrishwilltrytocontinuetheir willcontinuetobekeyfortheirsuc-offatthenet.” havethroughoutthelineup. The bottom portion of the dou-winning ways in doubles in both cessthisseason. The Irish are coming off of two “We are playingbetter doubles bles lineup has also been very upcoming matches when theyhost 
“All of our doubles teams have big wins last weekend over thisseasonbecausewereturnallof strongfortheIrishearlyinthesea-Michigan andNorthCarolina this made good strides this year, but Michigan State and Marquette. last year’sstarters and the experi-son, butBayliss saidthey are look-weekendattheEckTennisPavilion. particularly at No. 2 and No. 3 They claimed the doubles points in ence has been helpful, particularly ing to get more wins out of the No. wherewehavebecomeprettydarn both matches. in making match adjustments,” 1singles spot to bolster the lineup Contact Kate Grabarek at good,” Bayliss said. “We knew that The only time this season the Baylisssaid. further. kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

BelleswininPinkZoneevent 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Pink must be their color. The Belles won this year’s Pink Zone game, tripping up Adrian, 73-52. 
Saint Mary’s, outfitted in everything from pink shoelaces to pink headbands, pulled away in the second half on the strength of a 27-5 run. The run opened the Belles’ lead up to 24 points. 
“We had to do a better job in the second half of boxing out. I wasn’t too happy with our rebounding in the first half,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “We just picked up the intensity and got stops.” 
By the time the Bulldogs (7-16, 4-12 MIAA) scored their ninth 
see HENLEY/page 15 


BASEBALL 

New season begins with Aoki at the helm 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

Throughout his playing and coaching career, new Irish head coach Mik Aoki has found himself at strong insti­tutions, including Davidson, Boston College and Columbia. But when Notre Dame came calling in the offseason and asked Aoki to replace former head coach Dave Schrage, the new Irish skipper could not turn the offer down. 
“When you look at Notre Dame, it’s a place that’s capa­ble of attracting great kids,” Aoki said. “It has a niche, being the premier Catholic institution, and it has one of the strongest academic tradi­tions in not only the United States but the world, in addi­tion to having a great athletic tradition, including one in baseball.” 
Aoki takes the reins of a program that has been mired in a down period after a run of success in the early to mid­2000’s. In 2010, Schrage’s final season, the Irish went 22-32 and failed to make the Big East tournament. Aoki was hired to replace Schrage after building up the Boston College program during his four-year tenure as head coach. In 2009, the Eagles made their first NCAA tourna­
see AOKI/page 18 






