
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Jenkins to serve on board for debates 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
University President Fr. John Jenkins was elected to the Board of Directors for the Commission on Presidential Debates (CPD), which has sponsored all 
U.S. presiden­tial and vice presidential debates since 1988, accord­ing to a Uni­versity press release. 
Michael McCurry, co-chair of the commission, said Jenkins is the first univer­sity president to be elected to the Board. 
“We try to bring interesting and prominent people on the commission to add to the work that we do,” McCurry said. “I think everyone agreed that Fr. John was someone who would bring this extraordinary integ­rity to the process and someone who is genuinely committed to dialogue on these issues.” 
The non-partisan, non-profit commission’s purpose is to pro­vide oversight and guidance for the fall general election debates between major candidates for the presidency, McCurry said. 
“[We try to] design a format that really tries to get the maxi­mum dialogue between the can­didates,” McCurry said. “How do 

see JENKINS/page 6 



Memorial honors Declan Sullivan 
Family, friends gather for dedication of spot to commemorate former student’s life 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
It was a place junior Declan Sullivan crossed dozens of times performing his duties as a student videographer for the football team. 
It was a place the Sullivan family chose as a meeting point after Notre Dame football games. 
It was a place within sight of Sullivan’s fatal accident almost one year ago. 
Now, it is a place of memo­rial. 
About 75 people gathered Saturday afternoon before the football game against USC to dedicate a memorial to Sul­livan, who died last October after a scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. A plaque, two benches and some trees now sit between the Guglielmino Athletics Complex and the LaBar Practice Field. 
Sullivan’s mother Alison ad­dressed the group gathered to honor her son’s life. 
“We didn’t envision anything that could be more perfect,” Alison said. “I think if [Declan] could see this, he would be in awe. He would say, ‘Gee, this is amazing. I love this. It’s epic.’” 
The group chuckled at the use of the word “epic,” a word that Declan strived to embody in his life. 
“He always wanted to be epic, and I think he would look at this and say, ‘Indeed, it is epic,’” Alison said. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins led the ceremony and asked God to bless the memo­rial. 
“Lord God, we ask your bless­ing,” Jenkins said. “May it be a place of memory, a place of prayer, a place of consolation and a place of hope, so that all who spend time here remem­ber Declan and be inspired by his life.” 
Jenkins then joined members of the Sullivan family and Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle in sprinkling holy water on the memorial. 
Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick also presented the Sullivan family with the flag they helped raise at the opening football game of the year, and representatives from video ser­vices gave the family a framed photomontage in the shape of the Notre Dame monogram. 
Inscribed on the plaque is a poem written in honor of De-clan and a shamrock logo with Declan’s initials inside. Alison said both components are par­ticularly meaningful. 
The poem was written by a family friend and refers to De­clan’s life as “never ordinary.” Alison said Declan often quoted a line from the movie “Ameri­can Beauty” when a minor character said, “There is noth­ing worse than being ordinary.” 
“That was kind of his man­tra,” Alison said. “The refer-ence in here to ordinary is something I think Dec would really get a kick out of.” 

Alison said Declan would also appreciate the shamrock logo. 
“From the time Declan was a little boy, he was enamored with shamrocks,” she said. “It’s very significant because it’s a symbol that he really liked.” 
Jenkins told The Observer the memorial was an opportu­nity to honor Declan’s memory. 
“The loss of Declan was a tragedy to all of us in the Notre Dame family,” he said. “This [dedication] was a chance for all of us to come together in a place dedicated to his memory, to memorialize it and to give thanks for his life.” 

see SULLIVAN/page 6 



Students disheartened after home night game loss 

By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The football team’s new hel­mets shone bright gold under the Notre Dame Stadium lights Sat­urday night, but many students left the stadium feeling lacklus­ter after the Irish’s 31-17 loss to the Trojans. 
Senior Paul Lively said campus energy before the game was elec­tric because of the later kickoff time. 
“The parking lots were really packed before the game, and all of the fans seemed to be having a great time with those few ex­tra hours of tailgating,” Lively said. “It was also great to see the alumni and other fans on their feet for most of the game.” 
While fans were more ener­gized for the game, Lively said he became frustrated once he got in the stands. “It was a disappointing result be­cause it seemed like we were the better team on paper going into the game,” Lively said. “[Dayne] Crist’s fumble on the goal line re­ally changed the outlook of the game as going from a possible tie game to down 14 points is hard to 


see GAME/page 7 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students serve in Appalachia page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Umphrey’s McGee review page 12 u New hockey arena opens page 24 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: DESCRIBE YOUR FALL BREAK IN ONE WORD. 


www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Megan Doyle Molly Sammon Marisa Iati Matt DeFranks Emma Russ Walker Carey Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Courtney Cox Photo Viewpoint Thomas La Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 68 LOW 44 


Andrew Cloetingh Ashley Veselik David Kenney Nick Yulan Phillip Pryce Ryan Davila 
sophomore freshman sophomore sophomore freshman freshman Alumni Ryan Dillon Dillon Dillon O’Neill 
“Preposterous.” “Homey.” “Phenomenal.” “Needed.” “Awesome.” “Eventful.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Indiana twins give birth on the same day 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — Two identical twins in In­diana now have another birthday in common: They delivered babies on the same day at the same hospital. 
The Herald-Times reports 21-year-old Jessica and Jen­nifer Patterson gave birth Wednesday at Indiana Uni­versity Health Bloomington Hospital. 
Jennifer Patterson gave birth first to a girl, Adalynn Rose Patterson, who was born with a collapsed lung but is now doing fine. 
Eight and half hours later, Jessica Patterson gave birth to a boy, Mason Douglas Pat­terson, by cesarean section. 
Jennifer Patterson calls the same-day births “kind of cool.” Both women live in the tiny Lawrence County town of Judah. 
Hospital spokeswoman Amanda Roach says no one can recall the last time iden­tical twins delivered babies at the hospital on the same day. 
Honeybee accident leaves truck driver stung 
SALT LAKE CITY — Truck driver Louis Holst has never been scared of bees, but he’s rethinking his next long-haul load a day after being swarmed by 25 million of the stinging insects. 
Holst and his wife, Tam­mie, picked up 460 bee hives in South Dakota and were about 36 hours into their drive Sunday night when he hit a sharp bend in a con­struction zone on Interstate 15 in southern Utah. The twist in the road toppled his trailer and sent the bees into a frenzy. 
“First responders came and drug me and my wife through the front window,” Holst said Monday. “Then we panicked.” 
Swarmed by bees on the highway, Holst said he ripped off his shirt and be­gan swatting the air. His wife ran. 
The 25 million bees were headed from Adee Honey Farms in Bruce, S.D., to near Bakersfield, California.  
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Lyndon Valicenti, an en­vironmental consultant to Chicago’s Department of Environment, will host a seminar titled “The City of Chicago’s Science-driven Sustainability Initiatives” from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. to­day. The seminar is the next installment in the Environ­mental Fluid Dynamics Sem­inar Series. It will take place in Room 258 of Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 
Seth Maxwell, founder of The Thirst Project, will host a discussion titled “Find the Water, Save the Planet” in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The discussion will begin at 2 p.m. today. He will address the world­wide clean water crisis and the creation of sustainable global change. 
Former U.S. Secretary of Defense William Perry, along with Cardinal Roger Mahony, will host a discus­sion titled “Ethical Dimen­sions of a World without Nuclear Weapons,” address­ing  the prospect of nuclear disarmament as a policy ob­jective. The discussion will take place today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold an in­formational meeting for the International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) tonight from 7 to 8 
p.m. The meeting will take place in the McNeill Library in Geddes Hall. Applications for ISSLP 2012 are available online through Oct. 30th. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY GAMEDAY 







HIGH 55 LOW 40 
HIGH 49 LOW 34 
HIGH 49 LOW 33 
HIGH 50 LOW 36 





Students dedicate fall break to service in Appalachia 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Some Notre Dame students traveled to the mountains for fall break, but they dedicated their week to service rather than vaca­tion time. 
These students were among over 250 participants in the semi-annual Appalachia seminar sponsored by the Center for So­cial Concerns (CSC). 
Cynthia Toms-Smedley, direc­tor of educational immersions at the CSC, said the seminar sends students to several sites across the Appalachia region to serve local communities. The program draws more students than any other CSC program, she said. 
“I think there’s a mix between the service aspect and getting to know community members in Appalachia, as well as an op­portunity to have fun while doing service,” she said. “It’s an oppor­tunity to learn about some of the challenges in Appalachia and to exercise our opportunity to serve people.” 
The CSC reviewed a record number of 272 applications for the fall trip, Smedley said. The seminar also sends students to the region over spring break. 
After students travel to Appa­lachia once, Smedley said many continue to volunteer with the program. 
“There are a lot of repeat stu­dents who are there for the third and fourth time,” she said. “They like to reconnect with the com­munity they have served in the past.” 
Sophomore Bobby Alvarez spent his week at the Community Development Outreach Ministries (CDOM) in St. Albans, W. Va., and said he plans to return there in the future. 
“I want to go again, for the friendships I made, but also be­cause the site I was working at was really an amazing site,” Al­varez said. “The people I worked with there were great.” 
At CDOM, Alvarez and 18 other Notre Dame students spent the mornings painting the communi­ty center. After lunch, the volun­teers helped local children with their homework and played with them outside until dark. 
“A lot of the kids came from sin­gle parents or families involved with drugs and a lot have fami­lies that don’t really care about them,” Alvarez said. “The time at the community center and their time with us is a very special time for both them and us.” 
Alvarez said students who vol­unteer at CDOM frequently re­turn because of the unique bonds they form with the children. 
Sophomore Colleen Duffy spent the week at the Hurley Commu­nity Development Center in Hur­ley, Va. 
Duffy said she applied to Appa­lachia to experience the cultural differences between that region and other parts of the country. 
“I wanted to do something more meaningful with my fall break than to go home and sit by myself,” she said. “I wanted to do something different.” 
During her first few days, Duffy said she built a porch and ramp on a trailer for a woman who was disabled in a car accident. 
“The woman was in rehab and was going to return soon, but she couldn’t get into her home,” she said. 
Duffy also worked at a local food bank with some of the 21 other volunteers who also trav­eled to Hurley. She said enjoyed meeting not only other Notre Dame students but also the com­munity members. 
“Everyone from the commu­nity would just stop by the cen­ter and stop in to tell stories, and we’d always be there,” Duffy said. “By the end of the week, I felt like they were my family, and I wish I could go back.” 
Smedley said the seminar sends students to approximately 20 Appalachia sites, and each of­fers a different experience. 
“You can choose a site where you can get involved in education or in trail cleanup or work with people looking at sustainable ag­riculture,” Smedley said. 
Many of the sites have been part of the Appalachia program for decades, and Smedley said each must meet certain criteria to ensure that the volunteers can produce the maximum benefits. 




“For the centers, it’s an oppor­tunity for students to be useful to the community and not to be a drain on their resources and capacity, but to serve in a way that is helpful,” she said. “And for our students, our hope is that they have an opportunity to get to know the community on a per­sonal level.” 

Contact Mel Flanagan at                     mflanag3@nd.edu 
CLC identifies concerns and goals 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
During this semester’s first meeting of the Campus Life Council (CLC), mem­bers discussed their hopes for increased collaboration between different groups on campus this year. 
Student body president Pat McCormick invited members to present their most immedi­ate concerns and goals for the year. 
“CLC is designed to be a fo­rum where all of the stake­holders in the University could come together and discuss the most pressing issues,” Mc­Cormick said. “We can have a tangible impact on student life and the life of the commu­nity as a whole.” 
Judicial Council president Susanna Sullivan said she hopes CLC can foster a better relationship between students and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
“I want to facilitate a great­er respect for the [disciplin­ary] process and also bring about a greater transparency to it,” she said. 
Diversity Council represen­tative Alexa Arastoo said she hopes to increase awareness of diversity on campus, espe­cially now that over a quarter of the student population are considered minorities. 
“As the percentage of stu­dents who identify as a mi­nority grows, my goal is to see if Notre Dame can gradu­ate more people who have an openness to those kinds of is­sues,” she said. “I hope that we can see a greater integra­tion between minority stu­dents and the rest of the stu­dent body.” 
Farley Hall rector Sr. Car­rine Etheridge said she would like to see CLC work on reduc­ing student apathy on impor­tant issues. 
“I think we could do better on helping to form authen­tic community,” she said. “It would be great if the same at­mosphere in the Stadium on Saturday carried over to Mon­day morning.” 
Etheridge said she hopes CLC will focus on accomplish­ing practical goals, rather than attempting to tackle sweeping policy changes. 
“I’d like to see us do practi­cal, doable things,” she said. “Things that would improve the quality of life for stu­dents.” 
McCormick said he believes CLC can have a profound im­pact on student engagement and greatly enhance student life at Notre Dame. 
“It’s exciting for us to have this opportunity to think through how we can work through these issues,” he said. “We have the ability to uti­lize each facet of the student union well.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


Panel addresses issues in higher education 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Indiana colleges play a ma­jor role in encouraging high school students to attend col­lege, according to a panel discussion with state lead­ers in politics and education Monday evening. 
The panel began the 72nd annual conference of the Indi­ana Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (IACRO) that will be host­ed at Notre 

“A cultural shift, 
Dame this college gets week. Rep-encouraged by leaders to go because resenta-in higher education, the resources tives from has helped to drive would be in universities innovations in all of our place to do around the communities where the that,” Kernan state gather said.  “We’re 
institutions make access 
during the a long way 
and the actual degree 
conference from that.” 
much more likely.” 
to talk about The state issues fac-and local ing Indiana’s Richard Ludwick governments higher edu-president and CEO of IACRO need to con-jobs elsewhere, he said. 
Rea said more viable job op­portunities need to be avail­able for new college gradu­ates and university peer networks can help educate alumni about these openings. 
Former Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan said the state govern­ment needs to work with uni­versities to maximize oppor­tunities for students to afford a college education. 
“The goal would be to make sure that ev­ery kid in Indiana that wants to go to 
cation. 
Ri chard Ludwick, for­mer provost at St. Gregory’s University in Oklahoma, now serves as the president and CEO of IACRO. He said more Indiana stu­dents have access to higher education than ever before. 
“A cultural shift, encour­aged by leaders in higher education, has helped to drive innovations in all of our communities where the institutions make access and the actual degree much more likely,” Ludwick said. 
Universities need to contin­ue to push students to apply to college and look into their options in higher education, he said. These students will then be better prepared for the job market with a college degree. 
“If we prepare students to be well-educated so that they can acquire those skills no matter what the future of the economy is, then that’s re­ally the best education that we can give them,” Ludwick said. 
Jeff Rea, former Mishawaka mayor and current president and CEO of the St. Joseph County Chamber of Com­merce, said the “brain drain” issue plagues many schools in Indiana. More students choose to leave the state to find further education and tinue to col­
laborate with 
universities 
and colleges to encourage high school stu­dents to go to college, Ker­nan said. This partnership is critical to these students’ futures. 
“The only way to guarantee that we achieve the kinds of results that we all know are necessitated by this globally competitive world is to con­tinue to work together and to collaborate to do what’s best for our universities, colleges and our communities,” he said. 
University Registrar Chuck Hurley, a former president of IACRO, said Indiana universi­ties need to continue innovat­ing and using new technology to attract students to higher education. 
“People in the registrar and admissions areas have thought about their duties in a very traditional fashion,” Hurley said. “Because of the state of the current economy and the fast pace of mod­ern technology we have had to think about innovative ways to do registration and all types of things, and how to continue to be much big­ger players now in the global economy.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at               nmichels@nd.edu 


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

Johnathan de la Cruz of College Scheduler mans a table with information during a conference about higher education Monday. 



Professors discuss global health 
By VICKY MORENO 
News Writer 
Students and faculty spilled into the aisles of a DeBartolo Hall auditorium Monday evening as two re­nowned experts discussed liberation theology as a means to end poverty. 
Harvard professor Paul Farmer, a medical anthro­ty is not a one-time cure. It’s a constant adjustment.” 
Gutierrez coined the term “liberation theology” in the 1970s, which originated from the Latin American Catholic Church and ad­dresses the poor’s ability to embrace suffering with hope just as Christ did. 
Gutierrez acknowledged the difficulty of reconcil­
pologi st, physici an and founder of Partners in Health, an organization that provides healthcare and medical treatment to poor people around the world, said people could not end pov­erty if they did not un­derstand it. 
“Real ser­
“The challenge we must face is how to say to poor persons, ‘God loves you.’” 
Fr. Gustavo Gutierrez professor of theology 
ing suffer­ing and the notion that an all-pow­erful God loves those who suffer. 
“The challenge we must face is how to say to poor per­sons, ‘God loves you,’” Gutierrez said. 
Libera ­tion theol­
vice to the poor involves understanding global pov­erty,” said Farmer. “An un­derstanding of poverty must be linked to efforts of ending it. Poverty is structured evil. Understanding it is not the same as fighting it, but if we believe that knowledge in­forms practice then we can really make progress.” 
Notre Dame theology pro­fessor Fr. Gustavo Gutierrez agreed that understanding, was a means to end global poverty. 
“When we speak about the preferential option for the poor we are speaking about persons, not about poverty,” Gutierrez said. “Without fra­ternity, sympathy and com­munity we have not commit­ted to ending poverty.” 
Ending poverty is not an easy goal, Farmer said, but it is not impossible. 
“As long is there is poverty and inequality, we humans will need accompaniment —practical, spiritual and theological — to understand why and how they work so that we may attempt to erad­icate it,” Farmer said. 
Gutierrez agreed that pov­erty is not a quick fix. 
“Poverty is not a destina­tion, it’s a situation,” Gutier­rez said. “Addressing pover­ogy, however, is one answer to this challenge, Gutierrez said. 
“Theology changes to adapt to the historical de­mands of the time,” Gutier­rez said. “It is a reflection of 
the daily life of a person and of the way to be Chris­tian. Th eol­ogy acts as the medium between living faith and an­nounced faith.” 
Farm ­er said the fight to end poverty 
“As long as there is poverty least fortu­
nate comes 
and inequality, we humans 
before all 
will need accompaniment 
other con­
—practical, spiritual 
cerns, Guti­
and theological — to 
errez said. 
understand why and how 
“Pref­
they work so that we may erential attempt to eradicate it.” means they are first,” Gutierrez said. “It 
Paul Farmer 
Harvard professor 
should be one of solidarity rather than charity. 
“Liberation theology is an inexhaustible font for understanding poverty,” Farmer said. “We live in one world, not three. Nothing else I have seen from earth­quakes to floods to violence will lead me to believe oth­erwise.” 
Farmer emphasized the importance of comprehend­ing poverty’s existence be­fore attempting to end it. 
“It’s not easy to listen,” Farmer said. “It’s hard and sometimes painful. These experiences tried me in some ways that I cannot for­get. I am determined to un­derstand why poverty exists and how it functions in the modern world.” 
Farmer listened, studied Scripture and derived mean­ing from what he learned within the Latin American context. 
“Poverty is not a result of random acts of nature,” Farmer said. “Human beings constitute and create the so­cial world and shape it.” 
Gutierrez said poverty is an issue that needs to be ad­dressed on every front. 
“Poverty means death,” Gutierrez said. “For the poor in Latin America and all around the world, this means dying before their time. Death is not only a so­cial issue, not only a matter of a social doctrine; it’s more than that — it’s a global is­sue and we need to rethink from the position we are in.” 
The pref­
erential op­
tion for the 
poor means 
serving the 
does not mean all the poor are good or generous or very gentle. 
Not all of them are good persons, but because God is good we must work to end their suffering. We are not really in solidarity for the poor unless you are against poverty.” 
Contact Vicky Moreno at           vmoreno@nd.edu 



High-Heel-A-Thon supports hospital 

By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Junior Libbie Gilliland sprinted 50 yards in her favor­ite pair of high heels Monday night. 
Gilliland, sporting the black heels decorated with silver bells and pearls, took first place in the second annual High-Heel-A-Thon sponsored by the Saint Mary’s Dance Mar­athon. The proceeds from the race benefit the Riley Hospital for Children, which has 19 lo­cations throughout Indiana. 
Gilliland said the race is an innovative way to support the hospital’s work. 
“I did the High-Heel-A-Thon because I have medical condi­tions,” Gilliland said. “Even though I go to a hospital in the Chicago area, Riley Hospital still holds the same concept. It’s a great way for me to give back.” 
Dance Marathon president senior Becca Guerin said the High-Heel-A-Thon contributes to the overall goal of the mara­thon that will be hosted later in the year. Each high-heeled runner paid a $5 entry fee. 
“The people who ultimately benefit from our fundrais­ers like the High-Heel-A-Thon are the patients and families of Riley’s Children Hospital,” Guerin said. “It is gratifying to know that the funds we raise will make a direct impact at Riley.” 
The College hopes to in­crease its overall contribution to the hospital this year. Last year, the marathon raised over $63,000 for Riley Children’s Hospital, Guerin said.
 “This year, our monetary goal is to increase last year’s total by 20 percent,” she said. 
Juniors Kate Kellogg and Liz Kraig, co-executives for Dance Marathon fundraising, planned the race. 
“It’s a fun event to get the campus excited about Dance Marathon,” Kellogg said. “The idea is just to create awareness throughout the year. The High-Heel-A-Thon works perfectly in the ‘classy and fabulous’ atmo­sphere of Saint Mary’s.” 
Junior Nora Quirk finished second and junior Sarah Fee­ley took third. 
Students who attended to watch the event were aware of the impact made at Riley Chil­dren’s Hospital. Junior Chris­tina Barra said many mem­bers of the College support the Dance Marathon in some way. 
“Dance Marathon is a great cause,” Barra said. “It’s great to see all the support from the Saint Mary’s community.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at                       mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
you encourage the candidates to have real debate around the issues rather than reciting their favorite talking points?” 
McCurry said he first met Jenkins several years ago, but he began to think of him in the context of the commission after the president delivered a speech at Emory University earlier this year. 
“Such divisiveness makes politics not only unpleasant,” Jenkins said in the speech. “It makes it harder to come to­gether to address our nation’s challenges. If we choose to at­tack our opponents before we have taken the time to under­stand them, if we prefer denun­ciations to genuine dialogue, if we seek political victory rather than constructive compromise … we will not be able to find solutions to the problems before us.” 
McCurry said these points highlighted the commission’s overall purpose. 
“I thought to myself, ‘That’s exactly what the country needs right now,’” McCurry said. 
As the commission tries to engage younger voters in these issues, McCurry said Jenkins’ voice will be an important one on the board. 
“One of the things that we are very anxious about is how do you make these debates … accessible and interesting to younger people, the 18- to 25-year-old voter,” McCurry said. “We all thought Fr. John, as a member of the university community with lots of contact with young people and young­er voters, would be helpful in that.” 
The CPD’s responsibilities in­clude selecting a site for each of the four election debates, coordinating dates, picking de­bate moderators and determin­ing the format for the debates, McCurry said. He also said the commission is currently field­ing applications from organiza­tions looking to host one of four debates for the 2012 election. 
Since the commission’s incep­tion in 1987, McCurry said it has been successful in making the debates an expected fixture during presidential elections. However, he said the greatest challenge lies in making those debates both informative and interesting for voters. 
“How do you walk that fine line between institutionaliza­tion and innovation?” McCurry asked. “We’ve had lots of dis­cussions with Google and Face­book and Twitter about how you can engage through social media a larger group of people who don’t do appointment tele­vision. They don’t just sit down in front of the TV screen … they like to interact and participate.” 
McCurry said the entire com­mittee felt positively about Jenkins’ election. He called Jenkins’ appointment a “slam dunk.” 
“It was probably the easiest election I have ever participated in,” McCurry said. “[The entire board] was unanimously enthu­siastic.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
best memorialize our son and brother,” Alison said. “And [Doyle] for really helping us every inch of the way with ev­erything from the moment of the accident through the past year.” 
Megan Doyle contributed to this report. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Sullivan 
continued from page 1 
Jenkins also expressed grati­tude to the Sullivan family. 
“The Sullivan family, from the day Declan died to today, have been such an inspira­tion to all of us, and it is par­ticularly meaningful for me to bless this place with them,” he said. “We are grateful to them for helping us work through the tragedy of Declan’s death.” 
Alison also thanked Jenkins and Doyle for their help with the memorial and throughout the year since her son’s acci­dent. 
“I wanted to thank [Jenkins] for giving us a lot of leeway with this and really letting us do what we thought would 



Game 
continued from page 1 
overcome.” 
Sophomore Tom McGuire said he was disheartened by the loss. 
“I thought we had the chance to have a statement game, and really show that we deserved to be ranked among the top teams in the country, but instead of playing up to our potential, we regressed,” McGuire said. “I know this team has a lot of talent and potential, but they didn’t play like it Saturday night.” 
The match was the first home night game played in Notre Dame Stadium since 1990. McGuire said the energy on campus be­fore the game did not live up to his expectations. 
“The pep rally should have been later, so that students com­ing back from fall break could have actually gone,” McGuire said. “The University should have ran with the student-organized green-out and publicized it. I be­lieve Notre Dame Stadium can and should be an intimidating place to play. Saturday night was a step in the right direction, but we can do better.” 
Sophomore Erin Killmurray said she was excited for Satur­day’s festivities leading up to the game, but was disappointed that the day did not end with a win. 
“I was not impressed with the football team’s performance, by any means, especially on the de­fensive front,” Killmurray said. “However, I thought [George] Atkinson’s punt return was awe­some.” 
As she looks to the upcoming game against Navy, Killmurray said she hopes for a similar at­mosphere in the Stadium, but a different final score. 
“The best part of the weekend was probably tailgating and get­ting to see a bunch of different people because we had so much time,” Killmurray said. “I’m hop­ing Navy will be just as fun and intense but will produce a differ­ent outcome on the field.” 
Contact adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 



Police seek identity of body 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
LEWISTON, Maine — A man who died this month at age 80 took a secret to his grave — a secret that was discovered only after his family went through his belongings in a storage unit. 
Inside an unplugged freezer, they found a set of human re­mains that investigators believe may be those of his girlfriend, who disappeared in 1983, when she was 29. Now investigators are trying to confirm the iden­tity of the body, the cause of death and who may have been involved. 
State police were awaiting re­sults of an autopsy on Monday. DNA tests were under way to de­termine whether the body was that of Kitty Wardwell, who was last seen with boyfriend Frank Julian. 
The gruesome discovery came as a shock to Lewiston residents including Jane Child, who knew Julian as a kind shop owner who’d allow customers to put items on layaway when they were short on money. It’s diffi­cult to reconcile that image with a potential killer who stashed a body in a freezer, she said. 
“It just gives me the creeps,” Child said Monday while shop­ping at Blackie’s Fruit Stand, near the store where Julian worked with one of his sons. 
The storage unit was rented in 1992 by Julian, who died on Oct. 1. Back in 1983, Julian oc­casionally lived with Wardwell 100 miles away in Holden. 
Julian told police in New Hampshire that he last saw Wardwell after an argument that June, when he dropped her off at a motel in Salem, N.H., be­fore returning to Maine, police said. She was reported missing the following month by a close friend. 
A state police investigation in­dicated she was likely a victim of foul play in Maine. Because of that, the investigation officially remained open. 
The freezer was inside a 10-by-10-foot storage unit at a Moore Self Storage Facility in Lewiston, where Julian duti­fully paid in advance for the unit, coming around every three months to pay in person, owner Gary Boilard said. The last pay­ment was made on Sept. 6, so the unit was rented through Novem­ber, he said. 
The storage company’s previ­ous owner kept good records, indicating Julian rented the unit 19 years ago on Oct. 6, Boilard said. 
Boilard described the situa­tion as “bizarre.” 
“How do you keep a secret that long?” he said. 
The family was going through boxes inside the storage unit when the remains were discov­ered Friday, and half the unit was still filled with boxes when state police alerted Boilard. 
“There were boxes on tops of boxes. From front to back, from top to bottom, it was full of box­es,” he said. 
Other than the freezer, there was little else of interest stashed in the unit — mostly household items, said Stephen McCausland, spokesman for the Maine De­partment of Public Safety. 
Before Julian’s death, he was working at a variety store with his son after closing his own store on Main Street. Before that, from 2001 to 2007, he’d run the One Stop Shop in a space he rented from Hubert Nadeau, selling T-shirts, Christmas deco­rations, knives and “just about anything,” Nadeau said. 
Nadeau said he was surprised by the news of the body’s discov­ery. 
“He was a very nice guy,” Nadeau said Monday. “I had no idea what it was all about.” 
Both Wardwell’s and Julian’s families are being kept in the loop on the investigation, and both families are cooperating, McCausland said. Dwight Col­lins, Wardwell’s brother, said the family was awaiting further word on the body but declined to comment further. Other fam­ily members either couldn’t be reached or declined to comment. 
The process of determining the victim’s identity could be time-consuming because of the condition of the body. Wardwell’s family members have donated DNA samples that will be com­pared against DNA from the body, McCausland said. 
Julian was 52 when Wardwell disappeared. An obituary in the Bangor Daily News de­scribed him as a former res­taurateur and novelty salesman who played on John Bapst High School’s 1948 championship football team. 


TUNISIA 


Islamist party claims Tunisian election win 

Associated Press 
TUNIS, Tunisia — A moderate Islamist party claimed victory Monday in Tunisia’s landmark elections as preliminary results indicated it had won the big­gest share of votes, assuring it will have a strong say in the fu­ture constitution of the country whose popular revolution led to the Arab Spring. 
The Ennahda party’s success could boost other Islamist par­ties in the North Africa and the Middle East, although Ennahda insists its approach to sharia, or Islamic law, is consistent with Tunisia’s progressive tra­ditions, especially in regards to women’s rights. 
Party officials estimated En­nahda had taken at least 30 percent of the 217-seat assem­bly charged with writing a new constitution for the country. Other estimates put the party’s share from Sunday’s vote closer to 50 percent. Official results are expected Tuesday. 
International observers laud­ed the election as free and fair while emphasizing that the parties in the new government must work together and safe­guard the rights of women. 
There were no official an­nouncements of domestic re­sults Monday, but Tunisian me­dia outlets posted tallies from individual polling stations, making it clear that Ennahda or Renaissance Party was now the dominant political force in the country, coming in first in nearly every constituency. 
Ennahda did take half of the 18 seats reserved for Tunisians living abroad in official prelimi­nary results released Monday. Two center-left parties took sev­en other seats between them — a distributon of seats expected to replicated domestically. 
“Ennahda has taken first place on the national level and at the level of the constituen­cies,” said Abdel Hamid Jelassi, the party’s campaign manager at a triumphant press confer­ence outside its headquarters amid cheering supporters. 
In the half century since its 1956 independence from France, Tunisia has been prac­tically a one-party state until Tunisians kicked out President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in Janu­ary after a monthlong popular uprising. Nine months of un­rest, further demonstrations and political wrangling in the country of 10 million preceded Sunday’s vote, which saw a huge turnout. 
The constituent assembly elected will have an incredibly important role in building Tuni­sia’s new democracy. It will not only appoint a new interim gov­ernment but write the constitu­tion that will determine how the country will function. 
Tunisia’s elections coincided with declarations in neighbor­ing Libya by its new leaders that the country has been liberated from the yoke of longtime dicta­tor Moammar Gadhafi. Libya’s new leaders also announced plans with a sharply Islamist tone that could rattle their Western backers. 
Ennahda says it wants Islam­ic law, to be the source of the country’s legislation, but also insists that the country’s pro­gressive personal status code is compatible with its ideals and that it respects all religions and creeds. The party’s abil­ity to gain votes by moderating its message in a country with a progressive social history could be a model for Islamist parties elsewhere. 
“Islamist groups are learn­ing to play politics in the sense of moderating their message and moving to the center,” said Philip Howard, a professor at the University of Washington and the director of the Project on Information Technology and Political Islam. “They start out fundamentalist but then be­come content to participate in party politics and move to the center, giving up some of their radical politics.” 
Habib Bourguiba, who led Tunisia to independence, was a staunch secularist, and helped shape what was outwardly one of the more Westernized soci­eties in the region, with a pro­gressive personal status code for women — and harsh repres­sion for Islamists. 
When asked why they voted for Ennahda, Tunisians cited everything from protection of Islam to the hope that the party could deliver jobs, to the fact that it once severely repressed by the government. 



High school shooters injure one 

Associated Press 
FAYETTEVILLE, N.C. — Two teenagers were in custody in the shooting of a 15-year­old fellow student who was wounded in the neck during a lunch period outside her North Carolina high school, and a sheriff said Monday the pair will be charged. 
The 18-year-old and 15-year-old male suspects and the victim attend Cape Fear High School in Fayette­ville, Cumberland County Sheriff Earl “Moose” Butler said at a news conference. Both suspects participated in the shooting and were be­ing questioned, he said. The weapon, a .22 Daisy rifle and shell casings have been recov­ered. 
Abercrombie was in stable condition after surgery at Cape Fear Valley Medical Cen­ter, according to Butler, who said she was standing in a breezeway outside the school cafeteria when she was shot. 

Tanna said the older sus­pect is scheduled to appear in court on Tuesday, while the 15-year-old will go to juvenile court, although an exact date for the student’s appearance wasn’t known. 
The sheriff said the two teens were apprehended with the help of surveillance video which showed them carrying the rifle inside the school. The suspects were either in the hallway with the door open or outside the breezeway where Abercrombie was walking. 
While the high school has metal detectors, Butler said he didn’t know if they were used on a daily basis at the school. WTVD reported that the sus­pects may have sneaked the rifle into the rural school in a shirt or pants. 
Butler said investigators don’t think Abercrombie was the intended target, but no motive has been established. 
“Why did they shoot? I don’t know,” he said. 
The high school and nearby Mac Williams Middle School were locked down for hours before students were allowed to go home. 
Butler said additional staff will be on hand at both schools on Tuesday to help the school resource officer on duty. The schools are sched­uled to operate as normal. 
Asked how long the extra deputies would be on the cam­puses, sheriff’s office spokes­woman Debbie Tanna said, “As long as it takes to make sure the school has been put back in order and students and parents feel confident about their safety.” 
A police officer assigned to the high school was standing near Abercrombie when she was shot at about 1 p.m. and immediately called 911, Tan­na said. 


Stock market reaches highest level in months 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Stock indexes closed Monday at the high­est point since the U.S. debt limit showdown in August. The market was driven higher by a round of big corporate takeovers and reports that Europe’s bailout fund will be larger than originally thought. The Nasdaq composite turned positive for the year. 
Netflix Inc. plunged 26 per­cent in after-hours trading af­ter the DVD-by-mail and video streaming company forecast a sharp drop in fourth-quarter profits. 
Investors are still waiting for a resolution to Europe’s debt problems. European leaders said they made prog­ress at a weekend summit and plan to unveil concrete plans for containing the crisis by Wednesday. 
The Dow Jones industri­al average was up about 40 points in the first hour of trading but moved steadily higher through midday fol­lowing reports that Europe’s takeover fund will be greatly expanded. It finished with a gain of 104.83 points, or 0.9 percent, at 11,913.62. 
“The market is expecting that there will be some kind of deal worked out Wednes­day,” when European finan­cial ministers are scheduled to meet, said Uri Landesman, president of Platinum Part­ners. “If there’s not a deal by then, the market is going down significantly.” 
Even with concerns about Europe, U.S. companies are still reporting bigger profits. “Although there is a good deal of economic and political un­certainty in the world, we are not seeing it much in our busi­ness at this point,” Caterpillar Chief Executive Doug Oberhel­man said. 
The maker of construction equipment reported a 44 per­cent surge in income, more than Wall Street analysts were expecting, thanks to strong growth in exports. The company said it expected the global economy to continue recovering, albeit slowly. Cat­erpillar jumped 5 percent, the most of the 30 companies in the Dow. 
The Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose to 1,254.19. That is just 3.45 points, or 0.3 per­cent, below where it started the year. It’s the highest close for the S&P 500 since Aug. 3, just as Washington was re­solving a showdown over rais­ing the country’s borrowing limit. If the S&P 500 finishes the year with a gain, it will be its biggest turnaround since 1984. 
The Nasdaq composite rose 61.98, or 2.3 percent, to 2,699.44. The gains turned the Nasdaq positive for the year. The S&P 500 is the only ma­jor market index that remains lower than where it started the year. 
The Russell 2000 index of small companies rose 3.3 per­cent as investors moved mon­ey into higher-risk assets. 
Netflix sank 26.4 percent post-market trading after forecasting fourth-quarter income that was far below what analysts were expecting. Through Monday’s close the stock had plunged 59 percent since July 12, when it raised prices and announced a plan to break its DVD-by-mail busi­ness into a separate company. The company abandoned the plan after it triggered a revolt among subscribers. 
Other major U.S. companies due to report earnings this week include UPS Inc., Ford Motor Co. and Procter & Gam­ble. 
Analysts expect companies in the S&P 500 to report earn­ings growth of 14 percent for the third quarter, according to data provider FactSet. They expect a 10 percent gain in revenue. 
Expenses are also expected to climb. Higher costs for raw materials helped drag down income 8 percent at Kimberly-Clark Corp., which reported results Monday. The stock fell 5 percent. The company is a major consumer products maker whose brands include Huggies and Kleenex. 
Higher costs also hurt ciga­rette maker Lorillard, which reported a 3 percent drop in income. Lorillard’s stock fell 
0.6percent. 
A series of corporate deals helped lift the market, said Phil Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Inves­tors. 
“This is telling us that com­panies think stocks are cheap, and they’re willing to spend some of the cash that’s sit­ting around on their balance sheets,” he said. 



INSIDE COLUMN 


Xavier 

Two weeks ago, we mourned the passing of Xavier Murphy. He was a man of Notre Dame, and, more closely to my own heart, a man of Zahm. 
There are many ways to objectively label Xavier. He was a student, a politi-Kevin Noonan cal science major, a head manager and Scene Writer then intern for the football team, a friend and a son. 
But he was so much more than that. I did not know Xavier well; we crossed paths a handful of times at most, and he would not have known my name or face. 
But at the same time, I feel like I know him intimately. I feel like we all know him, because we are him in so many ways. Xavier was you and he was me. 
He was a boy with hopes, dreams, goals, joys, disappointments, successes and struggles. He worried about tests, girls, jobs and laundry. 
He was a Notre Dame student who loved his University and loved his dorm. He was buried in a Notre Dame polo with a Zahm shirt underneath. 
He was a man of compassion and courage, facing his short battle with cancer with the quiet strength and big smile with which he approached the rest of his life. 
When we learned in Zahm of Xavier’s death, we marked our remembrance with a Mass and a silent trip to the Grotto. 
I’m not an overly sentimental per­son, or at least I try to act like it, but walking into the Grotto with the Zahm community that night, each one of us placing a candle and saying a silent prayer in remembrance of our brother, was one of the most emotionally over­whelming experiences of my life so far. 
I was deeply saddened by the loss of such a young and promising life, and the feeling was only magnified by the importance of unity instilled in me since I arrived in Zahm. 
I said before, I did not know him well, and neither did my friends. But the pull of the current of brotherhood running through us was so strong that we truly felt deep in our hearts that we had lost a brother — a brother in Zahm, a brother in Notre Dame and a brother in Christ. 
As I stood with my fellow Zahmbies, though, our arms raised in silent X’s as tribute to our fallen brother, I was overcome with a sense of gratitude and community. The outpouring of love for a man who many of us, especially un­derclassmen, barely knew and shared with only the collective bond of Zahm and Notre Dame was simply powerful. 
Death is never easy to handle or com­prehend, especially when it happens so suddenly and to someone so young. But I found solace in the dynamic that our Notre Dame community possesses. 
We have a unique ability to join together in love and unity to show our mourning for a young man who so loved and so believed in this. 
On Saturday, Zahm is asking that the student body join them in raising their arms in their traditional X during the game. Normally a sign of defiance, it bears a new meaning on Saturday. 
Join us in raising the X as a full uni­versity to show our support for Xavier Murphy and all others who struggle and have struggled against cancer and illness, and we can show the world how much each individual member of our community means to us. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at      knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

What’s next for Libya? 
Libya’s civil war has now reached its last and most difficult phase. With Colonel Qaddafi gone, Libya is now free to begin transitioning from war mode to recovery mode. This entails an entirely new set of William Miller challenges. Under Qaddafi, freedom Guest of the press was Columnist virtually non­existent, elections were anything but fair and government agencies func­tioned as his personal bureaucracy rather than as a competent admin­istration. All of these institutions will need to be built in the coming months, and progress will undoubt­edly be slow and uneven. 
However, the above set of chal­lenges is less daunting than others that face the new regime. Three broad obstacles now lie between Libya and a stable and lasting peace. First, the remnants of Qaddafi’s forces still hold considerable sway across much of the country. This is especially true around his home­town of Sirte and in Libya’s southern deserts. Even more troubling, it now appears that many of the Colonel’s arms depots were looted before rebel forces could capture them. Interna­tional agencies have confirmed that thousands of anti-aircraft missiles, rocket launchers, small arms and other munitions have gone missing as a result. 
This is scarily reminiscent of Iraq, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
where the defeated remnants of Sad­dam’s army stored away weapons that later became the basis for a stubborn insurgency. Libyan forces must move quickly to secure these depots before more weapons can be stolen and hidden away. Failure to do so could leave the country vulner­able to a future insurgency and will make it much more difficult for the transitional government to impose national rules on towns, regions and tribes with different agendas. 
Second, the new government must come forward with a serious plan to guarantee minority rights in the new country. Much of the continued resis­tance is based on fears that the new regime, which sprouted in the east­ern city of Benghazi, will attempt to impose its will on the western areas, including those that are home to Qa­ddafi’s tribe. This fear is also preva­lent among Bedouin tribes in the south, most of which remain loyal to the Colonel. The best way to accom­plish this is to begin integrating the old regime’s forces into a newly cre­ated government, and by guarantee­ing that Bedouin tribes will maintain some degree of autonomy under the new constitution. 
Finally, a new and professional army must be built in a short period of time. Rebel forces became more and more organized as the conflict progressed, but do not yet resemble a truly legitimate force. This was painfully demonstrated in Qaddafi’s capture when militia forces captured and then apparently executed him. Incidents like this only confirm fears that the new regime is as brutal as the old, which is for the most part untrue. Without a legitimate army, however, each tribe will feel it necessary to take matters into its own hands, undermining any sort of democratic process that might emerge in the coming months and years. International agencies such as the U.N. have a large role to play in this process, and trainers from the U.N., E.U. and NATO should be dispatched quickly to begin training and preparing the army for its new role in society. 
Libya must now face the hard reality that democracy is built upon much more than just democratic in­stitutions. It must be built on stabil­ity, and that stability will be impos­sible to achieve so long as weapons still lie scattered around the country, minorities don’t feel protected and no legitimate army exists to back the new government. The rebels have thus far shown competence above and beyond what could have been expected; they will need to do even better if Libya is to become a truly free and democratic country. 
William Miller is a freshman. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“When I am attacked by gloomy thoughts, nothing helps me so much as running to my books. They quickly absorb me and banish the clouds from my mind.” 
Michel de Montaigne French essayist 

WEEKLY POLL 
What are you going to be for Halloween? 
Edward Cullen My orgo professor Snooki I just want free candy ... 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, October 25, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Don’t mess with tradition 
It felt like an away game, not a Notre Dame home game. 
The effect of the misguided effort to artificially increase crowd noise resulted in a blowout loss to our archrival that we have not beaten at home for a decade. While USC coach Lane Kiffin focused on preparation, our staff was preoc­cupied with its latest effort at meddling with Irish tradi­tion, confusing our team into its worst performance of the season. 
Coach Kelly may have seen his first Notre Dame game last year. I saw my first of over 200 games in 1969. As a Double Domer and parent of two Notre Dame graduates, I saw Par­seghian, Devine and Holtz win because they focused on foot­ball and respected tradition. I experienced deafening crowd noise when the stadium seated 59,000. The issue is not the crowd. It’s attention to detail, preparation, not failing to play hard at the beginning of the game, using timeouts and not quitting (Michigan went 80 yards in 30 seconds; Auburn beat Utah St. down two touchdowns with two minutes left.) Overlooked in the effort to copy the Michigan atmosphere is that we took the lead with 30 seconds left. Irish mistakes lost that game. Artificial stadium noise didn’t win it. 
The misplaced concern over crowd noise ignores the fact that our team feels comfortable and plays well at Notre Dame Stadium. Look at the Michigan State game — argu­ably our best game of the season over a quality opponent. No gimmicks. Just solid football. 
New truck, new Player Walk route, new helmets do not win games — solid football does. 
Want to increase crowd noise? Play better. Want more musical noise? Properly mic the band. We have the most famous fight song in college football and best band in the nation — use them. Notre Dame is a family. The decision makers need to remember that. 
Notre Dame requires excellence from its students and staff. We should expect no less from our football program. 
Wayne Belock 
alumnus Class of 1979, 1982 Oct. 23 


Gameday noise 
I am irate.  Gameday at Notre Dame, for decades, has been one of the most unique atmospheres in all of college football. What I witnessed during the USC game this past Saturday was barely recognizable as a Notre Dame gameday.  Bluntly, the entertainment product trotted out on Saturday was a disgrace. 
As a third-generation legacy, I recognize that most of our “traditions” are in flux.  Here, tradition is defined by what any particular graduating class experienced.  With this un­derstanding, I’m not opposed to change. 
However, Notre Dame has always sought to distinguish itself by maintaining a unique gameday atmosphere.  If the athletic department is compelled to artificially institute a change to the gameday atmosphere (i.e. not a student driven change), I implore them to introduce creative and unique changes, thus preserving Notre Dame’s legacy, as opposed to attempting to import, wholesale, the atmosphere from Big 10 and SEC schools. 
First, I posit that while the crowd was louder when the piped in rock music was played, that this was more due to correlation than causation.  Notre Dame fans are savvy.  The crowd was loud because the game situation demanded it and not because another Jock Jams song was queued up on the sound system. 
Second, the selection of songs was atrocious.  Continu­ously playing “Crazy Train” and “Seven Nation Army”  and drowning out the band was initially laughable and later, just depressing.  The realization dawned that those in charge of in-game atmosphere don’t truly understand what differenti­ates Notre Dame from its peers and are either unwilling or incapable of instituting creative changes that don’t ape the cookie-cutter college football gameday experience. 
If the piped-in music is to continue, choose appropriate songs (like the Dropkick Murphy’s version of “Rocky Road to Dublin” or Thin Lizzy’s cover of “Whiskey in the Jar”) and play them selectively during the interminable TV timeouts in place of making the on-field, “Please turn your attention to the 20-yard line” announcements. 
Leave the between-play atmosphere to the band and stu­dents. 
Matthew Meagher 
alumnus Class of 2008 Oct. 24 
A T-shirt challenge 
On Oct. 7, a clothing company named Alta Gracia presented their Dominican Republic operations in the Geddes Coffeehouse. Student turnout was understandably low; it was a home football Friday. Nevertheless, this pre­sentation’s effects should ripple through deci­sions for dorms, the Leprechaun Legion, The Shirt Project and the University as a whole. 
Alta Gracia is the only collegiate apparel company that is committed to zero-sweat fac­tories. Workers are paid full living wages, 340 percent of the minimum wage, enabling them to meet all life’s basic needs: food, water, clothing, shelter, health care and education for the workers and their families. Work­ers shared that this factory truly changed their life for the better, a first in the clothing industry. One individual only saw his wife and children three times a month before Alta Gracia; his other job was hours away. Others are exceedingly grateful for their economic empowerment and the ability to return to school in time off (their way out of poverty.) 
The Workers’ Rights Consortium consistent­ly applauds the work of this company. Work­ers are treated like humans, not shirt-making machines. They get breaks, reasonable hours and early departure on Fridays. If there is one company that allows us to act as clothing con­sumers according to the principles of Catholic teaching at the same time, I’m convinced it’s Alta Gracia. 
This lies in stark contrast to the human rights abuses we know happen in most cloth­ing factories. Adidas, one of the worst of­fenders, made this year’s Shirt and is under University contract. What human rights viola­tions lay behind our $5 dorm T-shirts made by Gildan or Jerzees? We betray our position as the nation’s flagship Catholic institution by knowingly opting for clothing produced under deplorable conditions, especially when such a great alternative exists. Using Alta Gracia shirts for the Legion, The Shirt and dorms would send a loud, clear message to all who buy Notre Dame apparel. 
As long as Alta Gracia remains dedicated to worker dignity and a living wage in the face of other company’s violations, it should be the only brand the University allows to bear its name. 
Samuel Evola 
sophomore O’Neill Hall Oct. 20 
True Fighting Irish spirit 
When I started planning for NTD Awareness Week 2011, which wrapped up on Oct. 9, I was angry. 
I was angry that my club, ND Fighting NTDs, which is dedicated to raising awareness of ne­glected tropical diseases — a group of diseases that infect 1.4 billion people yet can be treated for just $0.50 each day — received a pittance of an allocation from the Club Coordination Council. I was angry that Congress is cutting humanitarian aid for NTD victims by ten per­cent next year. I was angry that no one on this campus seemed to know or care what an NTD was, outside of the couple dozen people in ND Fighting NTDs. 
I write this having had a major change of heart. From the first event of NTD Awareness Week Monday morning, a bagel and brochure giveaway outside of DeBartolo, to the last event Sunday night, a collection in dorm Masses and a Rosary for Global Health at the Grotto, I was overwhelmed by the enthusiasm and generosity of the Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. The entire campus opened its ears, hearts and wallets to our cause. There were such quiet acts of kindness and generosity throughout the week that made all of our club’s hard work worth it 10 times over: a nameless person dropping a $50 bill in our cash box at the dirt cup dessert sale and telling us to keep the change, a guitar­ist in Sorin College donating a stack of bills he’d earned playing on the quad before the Air Force game to his dorm’s Mass collection, a large cash donation from a prominent Notre Dame figure who asked not to be recognized for his generos­ity — the list goes on. 
I am still passionate about neglected tropi­cal diseases and frustrated at the absence of a unified international effort to treat these “best buys” in global health. However, I am heartened to see that the Fighting Irish spirit isn’t limited to the football field. The Notre Dame community reminded me last week that you care deeply about the impoverished people of our world, and through your words and actions, have commit­ted to fighting for those who are fighting to live. 
God bless, and thank you, 
Emily Conron 
junior Breen-Phillips Hall Oct. 13 


Grotto Matt 
It is no secret that the Grotto is a special place. It is a gorgeous haven, offering a place for quiet reflection in the midst of campus chaos. It has many meanings and memories to anyone who has ever lit a candle, knelt for a prayer or even just passed through. 
I find an unmatched comfort in the commu­nal and cyclic nature of prayer at the Grotto. Candles are lit by individuals as prayers of needs or thanks and placed among the inten­tions of others for the community to hold. Even when you are forced to tend to other matters, your prayer is still felt by all who visit the Grotto. Even though you don’t know the name or face of the person who lit the candles, you are still able to hold their intentions in your personal prayers. 
Monday night, the idea of the Grotto being a place of community support took new form. I sat shocked and saddened by the loss of a dear family friend. I was joined by a stranger. He introduced himself as Matt, and he sat with me. Although at the time, I was silenced by the shock of her sudden passing, the offering of support from an unknown member of my Notre Dame family was remarkable. I sometimes forget how unique the spiritual strength of this community is and appreciate the pleasant reminder, especially in a time of sorrow, that I always have my Notre Dame family to rely on. Thanks for that. 
Kimberly Bonnet 
junior Lewis Hall Oct. 12 



page 12 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, October 25, 2011 Tuesday, October 25, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 
Umphrey’s McGee returns to South Bend  
By COURTNEY ECKERLE great vantage points, and it is almost Scene Writer impossible to have a bad seat. Umphrey’s managed to keep a The boys were back in town Sunday relatively garage band atmosphere, night. jamming with each other like they The band comprised completely of probably did when they played under Notre Dame alumni, Umphery’s Mc­the Dome 14 years ago. They mixed Gee, graced the stage at Club Fever, known songs, like “In the Kitchen” almost two years after their last ap­and “Anchor Drops” with tracks from pearance in South Bend. their latest album, “Death by Ste­“It’s honestly really great to be reo”, which were well-received by the back, and see so many faces of friends crowd. and family mixed in with new ones,” Overall, it was exactly what a good lead singer Brendan Bayliss said after concert should be — filled with people a few intro songs and one very fluid who know and love the music, and jam session. a band that sounds better in person It’s easy to see why this band has than they do digitally, which these built a loyal following on their tour. days, makes Umphrey’s McGee a hard It is electric, interactive and throws act to follow. a great concert. Fever is also a sur­prisingly great concert venue. With its Contact Courtney Eckerle at upper levels, there is no shortage of cecker01@saintmarys.edu COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer  




By COURTNEY COX 
Associate Scene Editor 

“Ides of March,” a political thriller both starring and directed by George Clooney, seemed to say nothing origi­nal about the American political sys­tem, but rather embraced the conven­tional wisdom that all politicians are power hungry sell-outs. 
The film followed junior campaign advisor Stephen Meyers (Ryan Gos­ling) through the presidential prima­ry campaign of Governor Mike Morris (Clooney). 
Meyers was a slick, talented and fresh face on the political scene. It’s assumed that he knew what he was doing in terms of organizing a cam­paign, but the audience never really gets to see his strategizing in action. 
This type of omission was exactly what made the film a relatively shal­low representation of politics with a very thinly veiled message. It was much less about politics than it was about human error. 
Morris was the type of Democratic candidate who was so extreme as to be polarizing, but in the film it’s never truly acknowledged. 
Very briefly, Morris talked about how he was raised Catholic and now does not believe in the Catholic Church, but rather in the Constitution of the United States. Bold statements like this were interspersed through­out the entire film but they serve as the backdrop of the story and are of no importance for moving the plot for­ward. 
A main story arc followed the com­petition between the two Democratic candidates vying for an endorsement from Senator Thompson. 
At first, Morris’ team thought they had the endorsement in the bag. That is until Meyers meets with rival cam­paign manager Tom Duffy (Paul Gia­matti). 
Duffy informed Meyers that his can­didate offered Thompson the position of Secretary of State in exchange for the endorsement. Meyers was hesitant to believe him, and unwilling to fully broach the subject with his boss, Paul Zara (Philip Seymour Hoffman), be­cause Zara was unaware of the meet­ing between Duffy and Meyers in the first place. 
The entire Thompson plotline was intertwined with the romantic entan­glement of Meyers with an aggressive intern, Molly Stearns (Evan Rachel Wood). 
It’s characters like Stearns who make “intern” a dirty word. She played coy as she flirted with the sec­ond most powerful person on the cam­paign and made her intentions crystal clear when she invited him to have a drink with her. 
Lurking in the background of the en­tire movie was Ida Horowicz (Marisa Tomei), a political reporter for the New York Times. Horowicz didn’t play nice with any of the campaign staff, no matter how buddy-buddy she at­tempted to appear on the surface. It was her stories that the campaigns fear the most. Any bit of information she received could be the end of a poli­tician’s career. 
The heavy-hitting cast certainly pulled their weight and made what would be a standard political melo­drama into a more successful and perhaps more meaningful tale. 
Seymour Hoffman and Giamatti shine as jaded top dogs. Seymour Hoffman was a fantastic blend of smooth-talker and sagely advisor. He created a character that the audience wants to believe and more important­ly, wants to trust. 
Clooney has proven his worth a thou­sand times over, and the fact that he co-wrote the screenplay for the film, directed it and starred in it is simply a testament to his skill. Clooney’s Mor­ris is an extremely realistic iteration of a politician because the screenplay chooses not to make a huge deal about the distinction between the public and private Morris. They instead chose to focus on one moment of moral failing, which is infinitely more likely. 
Gosling’s portrayal of Meyers was the most plot-driven development out of any character, but he still managed to elevate it into a thoughtful perfor­mance. He doesn’t rely on dialogue to make you understand the transforma­tion. 
In the beginning he was certainly an ideologue, but not to the extent that he would seem naïve. As his role in the campaign becomes more compli­cated, however, Gosling shifted gears into a stern portrayal of a man who has just had every illusion about his boss completely shattered. 
The movie was meant to draw out the role of human desire in politics, and while it was well crafted, it at­tempted to portray the entire realm of politics in one fashion without draw­ing out any of the nuances that could have made this film great. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 


Starring: George Clooney, Ryan Gosling, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Paul Giamatti and Evan Rachel Wood Directed By: George Clooney 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

College football at its best 
It is the reason many love college football. It is the rea­son some claim a playoff is not necessary. It is the reason we watch unranked and over-matched teams take on top-five title con­tenders. 
It hap­pened last weekend. 
In a week­end that defined college football’s unpredictable and erratic style, two of the top six teams lost in shocking fashion, their national championship hopes dashed. 
The first half of the season was nice, cute and a little entertaining, but was noth­ing compared to the shocking firecracker that was Satur­day. 
If the first half of the sea­son was Pam from The Office, this past weekend was Brook­lyn Decker. 
Preseason No. 1 Oklahoma 
— thought to be invincible at home — fell to Tex-

Matthew 
DeFranks 
Sports Writer 
Hail Mary fell into Spartan hands as time expired. 
The Badgers’ closest game previously was a 31-point thumping of then-No. 8 Nebraska. Opponents had reached double-digit points only three times against the Wisconsin defense. Only two ranked opponents remained on the schedule. Everything seemed to be going right for Wisconsin. 
But then college football reappeared and notified the Badgers that no game is guaranteed. 
If the first half of the season was a Toyota Camry, this past weekend was a Ferrari Spider. 
But this is the beauty of college football. This past weekend made underdogs winners; Vegas, victors. But ultimately, we, the fans, came out on top. 
Suddenly, the national championship race is wide open. Oklahoma State is now sitting pretty at No. 3 while Stanford has quietly stayed the undefeated course. 
But will I be paying at­tention when California visits Stanford? How about when Oklahoma State hosts 
Baylor? Yes 
and yes, and so 
should you. 
Those games 
represent why 

as Tech, If the first half of the March Madness whose best season was a tortilla is addictive and win prior popular. Just as 
chips and salsa 
to Satur-people like to 
appetizer, this past 
day was an see Morehead 
weekend was a Maine 
11-point State knock 
Lobster and medium 
victory off Louisville, 
rare Filet Mignon entrée. 
over a 2-5 people love to 
Kansas squad. But now the Red Raid­ers boast a marquee road win over a top-five foe. And, oh yeah, they snapped the Sooners’ 39-home game winning streak. 
Oklahoma had beaten two top-15 teams by a combined 48 points. They had averaged nearly 55 points in the past three games. And, oh yeah, they had that winning streak. Everything seemed to be go­ing right for Oklahoma. 
But then college football reappeared and reminded the Sooners that no game is guaranteed. 
Undefeated Wisconsin entered its matchup against No. 16 Michigan State with a Heisman contender at quarterback and an aver­age margin of victory of over 40 points per game. They left East Lansing, however, with a stunning loss after a see Wisconsin 
fall in the last 
second. Just as 
people like to 
see Butler make 
the national title game, people love to see Oklahoma choke. They love to see undefeated teams fall flat on their face. And so do I. 
People love upsets and un­derdogs and little guys beat­ing big giants — everything that characterized this past weekend. 
If the first half of the sea­son was a tortilla chips and salsa appetizer, this past weekend was a Maine lob­ster and medium rare Filet Mignon entrée. And I could eat steak all day. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 
Redskins plagued with injuries 


Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. — From healthy, first-place surprise to battered and struggling, the Washington Redskins had their fortunes take another dive Mon­day when running back Tim Hightower was declared out for the season with a torn knee ligament and receiver Santana Moss underwent hand surgery that is expected to sideline him for 5-7 weeks. 
That makes five starters lost to significant injuries over the last two weeks, coinciding with a two-game losing streak and a quarterback switch. 
The Redskins (3-3), sitting so pretty after winning three of their first four, are on their heels. Little seems to be going right, and some of the misfor­tune is truly out of the norm. London Fletcher — who has never missed a game in his 14­year NFL career — has a ham­string injury that might finally get him off the field, and demot­ed quarterback Rex Grossman is in the hospital with pneumo­nia. 
“We’ve got a lot of young players,” coach Mike Shana­han said. “We’re going to get a chance to see how much talent they do (have), and how quickly they can improve. 
“And, hopefully, it’s quick.” 
Hightower is the team’s lead­ing rusher. Moss is the top wide-out. With the injury-induced shuffling along the offensive line, there are now only four offensive starters — tight end Fred Davis, receiver Jabar Gaff­ney, right guard Chris Chester and right tackle Jammal Brown 
— still manning their same po­sitions from the beginning of the season. 
“I felt like coming into the season we had a chance to be a good football team; I still feel like that,” cornerback DeAngelo Hall said. “We’re a little banged up, though, there’s no doubt about that. ... (But) this is a dif­ferent group. This isn’t a group that’s going to hang their heads and feel sorry for themselves. We’re going to bounce back.” 
Hightower and Moss were hurt in Sunday’s 33-20 loss to the Carolina Panthers. Hight­ower’s left knee buckled when he tried to make a cut during a 4-yard carry in the third quar­ter, ending his season with 321 yards on 84 carries. 
Ryan Torain and rookie fourth-round draft pick Roy Helu will try to take up the slack, although neither has Hightower’s locker room leader­ship or ability to pick up a blitz. Torain had a 135-yard game in relief three weeks ago, but since then he has 12 carries for 17 yards. Helu’s last 16 attempts have netted only 55 yards. 
Hightower gave an emotional speech to his teammates after the game, encouraging them to soldier on. 
“It’s always tough to lose a player like that,” Shanahan said, “who leads both on and off the football field.” 
Moss has 25 catches for 301 yards, second in receptions on the team behind tight end Davis. Moss broke his left hand in the first half against Carolina and had three pins inserted into the area around his index finger on Monday. 
That leaves Gaffney, who has a team-high 361 yards, and either Anthony Armstrong or fifth-round rookie Niles Paul as the starting tandem for this week’s game against the Buffalo Bills (4-2) at Toronto. 
Fletcher, the heart and soul of the defense, left the Panthers loss early. His streak of 214 straight games might be in dan­ger. 
“I don’t think it’s that serious,” Shanahan said. “But we’ll find out more on Wednesday.” 
As if that weren’t enough, Grossman spent Sunday’s game in the locker room fighting pneumonia and a fever. Shana­han said Grossman would have come out to play if needed, but the coach also had receiver Ter­rence Austin taking snaps as an emergency quarterback during pregame warmups. Grossman is now being treated in a hospital for at least the next 48 hours. 
Among those already on the sideline: Tight end Chris Cooley, left tackle Trent Williams and left guard Kory Lichtensteiger, all hurt in the previous week’s loss to Philadelphia. Lichten­steiger is out for the season with torn knee ligaments, Cooley is sidelined indefinitely with a broken finger and is having his balky knee re-examined, and Williams is week-to-week with a sprained ankle. 

The injury news overshad­owed mixed results from John Beck, who completed 22 of 37 passes for 279 yards with one passing touchdown, one rush­ing touchdown, one interception and one lost fumble in his first start in four years. 
Those numbers aren’t bad, es­pecially given the injuries, but Beck stood out in a different way Monday. It’s been years since Redskins quarterbacks held reg­ular day-after-game chats with reporters, but Beck made an ap­pearance in the locker room and wrapped it up making a point to defend rookie receiver Leonard Hankerson. Hankerson, mak­ing his NFL debut, took a wrong turn on the first pass intended for him, leading to the only in­terception thrown by Beck. 
“Hey, listen, the play with Hankerson, it’s on me,” Beck said. “I’m the guy that has got the ball in my hand, and I’m the guy that makes the decision where that ball goes, and we’re very excited to have Hankerson be a part of this football team. He’s going to be a great asset to this football team. Nothing goes on Hankerson. It all goes on me. You got that?” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Seinfeld Quotes: “This Kruger guy is clueless. I can’t “I feel like my old self again. “Jerry, just remember, it’s not “There’s always been something 
PERSONAL 
wait to work for him.” - George Neurotic, paranoid, totally a lie if you believe it.” - George very strange about Jerry. Always 

“Man’s Best Friend... Jerry, I Costanza inadequate, completely insecure. Costanza so clean and organized.” - Cosmo 
want something like that on my It’s a pleasure.” - George Costanza Kramer 
tombstone.” - Cosmo Kramer “Well, those aren’t for New Year’s. “I’m going with jerk store. Jerk 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 
Those are my everyday balloons.”- “I punched Mickey Mantle in the store is the line. Jerk store!” - “Yes, I admit I was speeding, but 
go it alone. Notre Dame has many 

“I’m calling up the Rosses and Cosmo Kramer mouth.” - Cosmo Kramer George Costanza it was to save a man’s life. A close 
resources in place to assist you. 

inviting them out to my non-friend. An innocent person who 
If you or someone you love needs 

existent place in the Hamptons. “I haven’t had a decent sandwich “I want to make a good entrance. “I didn’t know it was possible to wanted nothing more out of life 
confidential support or assistance, 

Then we’ll see who blinks first.” - in thirteen years.” - Cosmo Kramer I never makes good entrances.” - come out of a coma.” - Cosmo than to love, to be loved, and to be 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 

George Costanza George Costanza Kramer a banker.” - Newman 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 
“Somewhere in this hospital, the 
information, visit 

“How could you spend $200 on a anguished squeal of Pigman cries “I think I’m pretty much like you, “I will not tolerate infestation!” - 
 ND’s website at: 

tip calculator?!” - Morty Seinfeld out!” - Cosmo Kramer only successful.” - Jerry Seinfeld Frank Costanza Go Irish. Beat Midshipmen. 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

MLB 
Rangers beat Cardinals in Game 5 of World Series 





Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — A long drive by Mike Napoli, a lucky bounce near the mound and suddenly the Texas Rangers were on the brink of their first World Series championship. 
Napoli delivered the biggest hit of his charmed season, lin­ing a tiebreaking two-run dou­ble in the eighth inning that sent the Rangers past the St. Louis Cardinals 4-2 on Monday night for a 3-2 edge. 
The slugging catcher then capped off his night of double duty, throwing out a would-be base stealer in the ninth as Al­bert Pujols struck out. 
“Pujols is going to put it in play, he’s a good contact hit­ter,” Napoli said, “and they were just starting the runner, 3-2. As soon as I got it, I just got rid of it and put it on the bag.” 
Texas will try to wrap it up in Game 6 on Wednesday night in St. Louis. 
If the Rangers eventually do win that elusive crown, the Tex­as fans who stood and chanted Napoli’s name may forever re­member his two-run hit. 
“Just trying to get something to the outfield, you know, get a sac fly, get that run across the board,” Napoli said. “I was try­ing to stay short and I got a pitch I could handle over the middle of the plate and put it in the gap.” 
If the Cardinals lose, there’s no doubt which play will stick with manager Tony La Russa for a long, long time. 
It was 2-all when Texas put runners on first and second with one out in the eighth, and reliever Marc Rzepczynski was summoned. David Murphy fol­lowed with a bouncer back to the mound, a possible inning-ending double play in the mak­ing. 
But the ball appeared to glance off Rzepczynski’s knee and trickled harmlessly away for a single that loaded the bases. In the dugout, La Russa immediately threw his hands to his head, a true “Oh, no!” mo­ment. 
La Russa elected to let his lefty stay in to face the right-handed Napoli, and it didn’t work. 
Napoli, who came close to a three-run homer in his previous at-bat, sent a drive up the al­ley against the pitcher with the nickname “Scrabble.” The dou­ble off Rzepczynski sure spelled good things for Texas, with ex­citable manager Ron Washing­ton waving the runners around from the dugout. 
Darren Oliver earned the win and Neftali Feliz closed for his second save of the Series and sixth of the postseason. 
After a travel day, the Series will resume at Busch Stadium with Colby Lewis facing Car­dinals lefty Jaime Garcia. The weather forecast in St. Louis is daunting, calling for rain and temperatures around 50. 
Adrian Beltre and Mitch Mo­reland hit solo home runs off Cardinals ace Chris Carpenter, helping Texas come back from an early 2-0 deficit. 
Later, it became a battle of the bullpens and Texas prevailed. 
Octavio Dotel gave up a lead-off double to Michael Young in the eighth, struck out Beltre and intentionally walked Nelson Cruz. That left it up to Rzepc­zynski, and the game quickly slipped away. 
La Russa appeared stunned by the turnaround. Later in the eighth, he brought in reliever Lance Lynn and had him issue an intentional walk to the only batter he faced. Jason Motte eventually ended the inning, but it was too late. 
Fittingly, Napoli had a role in the final play. Lance Berkman struck out and the ball hit Na­poli’s shin guard and trickled up the first base line, where the catcher picked it up and tossed to first base to end the game. 
Pujols drew three intentional walks, including a pass with two outs and none on in the sev­enth. The St. Louis slugger then nearly used his legs to put his team ahead. 
Pujols was running hard on a 3-2 pitch that Matt Holliday hit for a single to left-center. Pujols chugged around the bags and third base coach Jose Oquendo initially waved him home, only to put up a late stop sign. 

CLUB SPORTS 

Cycling team travels to Wisconsin, earns first victory of year 
Disc golf competes for spot at nationals; women’s rugby wins twice; men’s rowing races in Massachusetts 
Special to The Observer ball to start, but the Irish kick, and the Irish came back for the Irish was the Collegiate 2 and 5 respectively, lost four 
launched forward and were hard to score again. 4+.  Coxed by Rebecca Holm-close game contests. 

Notre Dame Cycling mem-able to gain possession on the The Irish quickly forced a berg and with Jamie Baffa, Bri-Mickan dropped a heart­bers Douglas Ansel and Jose ball as the Hoosiers struggled turnover and moved the ball an Kwak, Charlie Janini, and breaker against the Illini, fall-Lugo traveled to Mt. Morris, to field it.  After a few phases out wide to the backs, allow-Steven Froelich sitting stroke to ing 11-8 in the fifth and decid-Wis., to participate in the last the Irish were successfully able ing Okonta to bring the ball in bow, the Collegiate 4+ finished ing game.  Ryan Gisriel lost in Midwest Conference mountain to create an imbalance in IU’s for her second try of the game their race in 18:17.99, finishing four games at No. 1, and the bike races of the season and defense. The ball was passed and bringing the score to 29-5. 18th out of 41 entries in a very rest of the team dropped three marked the first victory of the out to outside center Ashley In the remainder of the game, tight field. game matches to bring the sea-season for the team. Okonta, who ran the ball in for the Irish scored two more tries, On Sunday, the Irish sent son record to 0-2. 
The races were hosted by Ri-a try.  Amelia Vojt made the both off of forwards breaking out their Collegiate 8+. Racing The third time was the pon College at the Nordic Moun-conversion kick, putting the through the defense. Junior Ve-with bow number 5 after a 5th charm as the Irish rallied to tain ski resort located an hour Irish at an early 7-0 lead. ronica Ryan took the ball from place finish in 2010, the Irish defeat Illinois-Springfield, 7-2. and a half north of Madison. Although the Irish sometimes midfield in for a try, which was had high hopes of repeating or Winning matches for the Irish Ansel and Lugo lined up for the struggled to move the ball out converted by Vojt. With five improving upon their perfor-were Micken, Mike O’Neilll, Cross Country races Sunday of their own territory, flyhalf minutes left in the game, the mance from a year ago.  Coxed Grabowski, Riley McGraw, Jo-morning, which featured the Kayla Bishop gained significant Irish struck again, pressuring by Greg Obee and with Gar-seph Whalen, Justin Campbell largest and strongest fields of distance for the Irish by repeat-the Boilermakers’ defense un-rett Campbell, Tim Parks, Zach and Casey O’Meilia. the entire season. edly kicking the ball downfield, til it gave way. Senior Margot Stackhouse, Brent Shawcross, In their final match, the Irish 
The course for the weekend foiling IU’s attempts to score. DeBot brought the ball in to Alec MacDonell, Zach Weber, lost to Purdue, 5-4.  Grabowski, was one of the most challeng-The Irish also kicked for the try zone, bringing the final Michael Benvenuti, and David McGraw, Whalen, and Camp­ing courses on the conference points off penalties twice in the score to 41-5. Link sitting stroke to bow, the bell won at numbers 5-6-7-8, race schedule this year. Held first half.  Both kicks were tak-Collegiate 8+ posted a time of while Kevin Sander’s rally fell on a 4.5 mile lap that has been en by sophomore Amelia Vojt Men’s Rowing 15:32.09, finishing in 6th out of just short in a 3-2 loss at No. 4 used for the national level and were successful. The Irish The Notre Dame Rowing Club 40 entries.  This finish repre-to clinch the match for the Boil-Subaru Cup professional race, continued to use their backline competed this weekend at the sents the second-best finish in ermakers. the course featured numerous to challenge IU’s defense, lead-Head of the Charles regatta, history for a Notre Dame Col-steep, challenging climbs fol-ing to another try by fullback the world’s largest fall regatta legiate 8+. Men’s Water Polo lowed by twisty and technical Natalie Branch.  Vojt again by competitor count, in Cam-The Rowing Club now re-The men’s water polo team descents littered with countless kicked to convert the try but bridge, Mass.  The Irish raced turns to training, as the entire was severely hampered by a rocks of every size. missed, bringing the halftime with three boats in three dif-team travels to Chattanooga, loss of players over fall break 
In the Men’s B race, Ansel score to 18-0. ferent boat classes, with their Tenn. on Nov. 5 for the Head of in their game against Ohio Uni-worked his way into fourth In the second half, the IU Club 4+ and Collegiate 4+ rac-the Hooch regatta. versity, and they failed to claim position at the end of his first women were more success-ing on Saturday, and their Col-the conference championship of three laps and continued to ful. The team took advantage legiate 8+ racing on Sunday. Squash for the chance to advance to pick off riders in front of him, of offensive overloads created On Saturday, the Irish raced A depleted squash club nationals. gaining time on both the climbs to get past Irish defense, and at noon in the Club 4+ event. dropped three of four matches In the opening round, the and the rough descents. Near scored twice. The Irish also The Irish 4+, coxed by Casey over fall break, as five of the Irish defeated Loyola University the end of the major climb on scored again in the second half Connoly and with Jim Ropa, top six members were unable of Chicago, 8-3.  Senior captain the last lap, he passed the lead-with a dive into the try zone by Matt Planell, Pat Hickey, and to compete in the required CSA Dan Geisman led the team in er and pulled out a winning Bishop. IU was unsuccessful Anthony Krenselewski sitting competition. scoring, while goalkeeper Tate margin of over 20 seconds. in converting their tries, while stroke to bow, navigated the In the opener against Kernell was strong in goal. 
On a course where bike han-Vojt made the conversion kick course in 18:45.26 finishing Swarthmore, Kevin Sandner The Irish dropped a 9-6 con­dling skills were just as impor-for the Irish, bringing the final 26th out of 53 entries.  This at number four registered the test to Grand Valley State, and tant as power, Lugo used his score to 25-10. time represented a great im-lone Irish victory in an 8-1 loss, lost 11-8 to Miami (Ohio), two technical abilities to outpace Notre Dame Women’s Rugby provement over the Notre Dame winning 14-12 in the fifth game teams the Irish had decisively other racers and finish 15th in also hosted Purdue this Sunday Club 4+ from 2010. for the 3-2 edge.  Paul Mickan defeated during the season the Men’s C field. and won the match, which was Coming down the course next and Dennis Grabowski, at No. with a full roster. 
With this weekend, ND Cy-played at McGlinn field. cling notched its first victory of The Irish received the first the 2011-12 season. kickoff and junior Margot 
After several weekends with Dubot caught the ball in the no collegiate races, the cyclo-air. However, the Irish seemed cross season (a cross between frantic early on in the game road and mountain bike racing and let the Boilermakers push with the addition of barriers them back into their own ter­and steps riders must dismount ritory. After holding off the and run over) will begin early Boilermakers in their own end, November. Ansel and Brian the Irish gained possession of Boyle will target several races the ball and became more calm in the final chapter of Midwest and focused. Conference races in 2012. The Irish soon emerged as 
the better team in the match. Disc Golf Okonta put the first points on 
The Disc Golf club of Notre the board and Vojt successfully Dame sent a team of four to a converted it. national championship qualifi-For the remainder of the half er hosted by Purdue University the Irish largely managed to to vie for a chance to qualify for avoid being pushed into their the national championships. own territory, with most of the 
The Irish finished behind Il-action happening at midfield or linois, which claimed the quali-in Purdue’s end. Bishop scored fying spot for the 2012 Colle-another try, with Vojt again giate National Championships kicking and converting the try. in North Augusta, S.C. in April. The Irish wrapped up the first 
Notre Dame’s team con-half with a try by junior Janet sisted of Jerome Hall, Jake Mostrom, bringing the score to Pankow, Tim O’Brien and Mi-19-0 at halftime. chael Sizemore. The format Going into the second half, was two rounds of individual the Irish women were deter-play. The best three scores for mined to drive home a com-each round would add up to the manding win by putting several school’s team score. more tries on the scoreboard. 
Nine temporary holes were They got off to a good start added to the nine permanent with a try by freshman Claire holes already on Purdue’s cam-Kozlowski, who proved that she pus. The course was very chal-was a capable flyhalf despite lenging with elevation and wind being new to the position. The in play on almost every hole. Irish, however, conceded a try 
The club will have two more to the Boilermakers when a opportunities to qualify for na-Purdue forward struggled past tionals in Augusta, S.C. the defense and was able to 
struggle well into Irish territo­Women’s Rugby ry before the Irish brought her 
Notre Dame dominated Indi-to ground. The Boilermakers ana University in a 25-10 win continued to push and struggle at home this past Sunday in the their way to the try line, falling women’s second league game of on the ball as it came out the the season. Irish end of a ruck. The Boiler-
The Hoosiers received the makers missed the conversion 


SMC SWIMMING 

Saint Mary’s starts year at Conference Relays 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles started their 2011 season with a strong showing at the MIAA Conference Relays at the Holland Aquatic Center on Saturday. Though there were no scores given out at the meet, Saint Mary’s caught a glimpse of their potential for the upcoming competitive events. 
Junior Kristyn Gerbeth, sophomore Sarah Thompson, freshman Anna Nolan and se­nior Katie Donovan combined for the 500 freestyle relay and finished fifth overall (5:09.58). The Belles raked in another suc­cessful relay performance in the 200 butterfly, in which Gerbath, junior Genevieve Spittler, ju­nior Liz Litke and senior Audrey Dalyrump finished just .49 sec­onds behind the fifth place team from Albion. 
“We had some good swims across the board,” Belles coach Mark Benishek said.  “We came off of a very tough week of train­ing. We were swimming doubles each day and the team put in a lot of energy this past week. It was great to see some of those good times even with the tough week of training.” 
Benishek said that he was glad to see strong performances from both new and returning players. 
“Anna Nolan, a freshman, had a really nice split time in the 50 [freestyle],” Benishek said. “We also had Katie Donovan. Her 500 split time was quite impres­sive, especially since she hadn’t swam it since her high school years.” 
The Belles swimmers are largely dependent on both the team and individual attitudes for their energy before a compe­tition. 
“When it comes to focus, I think the girls individually and collectively are really strong,” Benishek said. “They feed off of each other. I don’t have to moti­vate them too much. They do a great job of self motivation and keeping up a good attitude going into competition.” 
Compared to last season, the Belles seem on their way to a successful campaign. 
“We’re stronger physically than where we were at last year. We’re smaller number-wise, but strength-wise collectively I would have to say I’d love to see all of them really step up and set a good standard for the season.” 
Saint Mary’s will have its first team competition in a home match against Kalamazoo on Friday at 7 p.m. 

Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles finish 18th in Oberlin 
Observer Staff Report 
In a field of 30 schools, Saint Mary’s tied for 18th place with Penn State-Behrend as each team earned 516 points during the six-kilometer race at the Oberlin Inter-Regional Rumble in Oberlin, Ohio on Oct. 15. 
No. 23 Oberlin won the event on its home course, fin­ishing with a team score of 60. Case Western finished a distant second with 147 total points. DePauw rounded out the top three, earning 191 team points. 
Fellow MIAA members Al­bion and Alma finished sev­enth and twelfth, respectively. 
Senior captain Joanne Al­mond led the Belles and fin­ished 72nd individually. Al­mond garnered 70 points for her time of 24:09. Junior Ju­lia Kenney crossed soon af­ter, clocking a 24:29.3, which earned her 86th place individ­ually. Junior Angela Nebesny recorded her highest career finish, clocking a 24:47.6 and became the third Saint Mary’s runner to score. 
The Belles will face Alma on Saturday in Alma, Mich. for the MIAA Championship meet. The race will begin at 11 a.m. 
NFL 
Jones-Drews, Jaguars top Ravens 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — On one night, on one big stage, the Jacksonville Jaguars did ev­erything better than the Balti­more Ravens. 
Maurice Jones-Drew ran for 105 yards against the NFL’s best run defense, Josh Scobee kicked four field goals and the Jaguars snapped a five-game slide with a 12-7 victory over the Ravens on Monday night. 
Stepping into the national spotlight for a few hours, the Jaguars used their best defen­sive effort in five years to slow down Ray Rice, Joe Flacco and Co. 
Jacksonville (2-5) didn’t al­low a first down until the 5:26 mark of the third quarter, a mix of stout defense and inept offense. Flacco finally got the Ravens (4-2) on the scoreboard with a little more than two minutes remaining. He capped a 90-yard drive with a 5-yard touchdown pass to Anquan Boldin. 
The Ravens failed to recover an onside kick when the ball bounced inches short of going the required 10 yards. Scobee followed with his third field goal of at least 50 yards. 
Baltimore had a final pos­session, but in fitting fashion, Jacksonville’s defense came up big. Drew Coleman stepped in front of Ed Dickson and inter­cepted Flacco’s final pass. 
The Ravens finished with 146 total yards. The Jaguars had 205. 
The Jaguars set a franchise record by allowing only 16 yards in the first half, includ­ing 1 yard passing by Flacco, who was under relentless pres­sure for much of the night. 
Baltimore finally got a first down on its 28th play of the game when Rice broke off a 12-yard run. That was only the second play longer than 10 yards for the Ravens, although they picked up two more first downs on the drive. It ended when Dwight Lowery sacked Flacco, and Billy Cundiff’s 52­yard field goal was wide right. 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Frilling, Mathews win title, advance to national championship 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Irish senior co-captains Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews captured the ITA Midwest Regional doubles title Monday, earning themselves a ticket to the ITA National In­dividual Indoor Championship in New York City. 
“It’s awesome — I think Shannon and I are really excit­ed to go to New York and play,” Frilling said. “We’re really ex­cited to move forward and play at the national tournament.” 
Frilling and Mathews, the no. 2-seeded pairing, grabbed a quick lead they never relin­quished, defeating top-seeded Northwestern partners Linda Abu Mushrefova and Nida Hamilton by a final score of 8-2. 
Mushrefova and Hamilton knocked out another Irish duo, junior Chrissie McGaf­figan and sophomore Jenni­fer Kellner, in the quarter­finals Sunday. McGaffigan and Kellner fell behind early, but with Northwestern lead­ing 7-2 the Irish rallied to win four straight games. The comeback was not enough to defeat Mushrefova and Hamil­ton, who took the next game to win the match 8-6, but McGaf­figan and Kellner proved to be invaluable scouts for their teammates. 
“We had some insight into how they play,” Frilling said. “We also played them a few times last year, so we know how they play their game, and it was good to use that going into the match.” 
Unfortunately for Frilling and Mathews, any good mojo from taking the doubles title didn’t carry over to their indi­vidual matches. Frilling faced Northwestern junior Brittany Wowchuk in the quarterfi­nals, and though she jumped out to a 4-1 lead she dropped the next five games and the next set, losing 6-4, 6-4. Mathews’s quarterfinal match went in much the same way, and she lost 6-3, 6-4 to Michi­gan freshman Emina Bektas. 
“It’s really hard to play a lot of matches in a day, but I think we tried our hardest,” Frilling said. “It was unfortunate that we couldn’t come out with the results in singles, but we’re happy that we got to win the doubles.” 
Although Frilling and Mathews had a title to take home, they weren’t the only ones to take something posi­tive from the weekend. 
Sophomore Julie Sabacinski won two matches in the quali­fying rounds Thursday and Friday to qualify for one of eight spots in the main draw before falling to junior Kara Cecil of Ohio State 6-4, 6-3 in the round of 48 Saturday. She paired with sophomore JoHanna Manningham in the doubles main draw, but the two lost to Cleveland State se­nior Catrine Bjerrehus and ju­nior Maria Lazaris, 8-6 in the first round. 

Irish sophomore Britney Sanders beat Western Michi­gan sophomore Nini Sujashvili 6-2, 6-1 before dropping two sets 7-5, 6-1 against North­western junior Kate Turvey. 
Irish freshman Katherine White won one of her two matches Saturday, beating Ohio State’s Tiffany Dittmer, a sophomore, 6-3, 6-2 in the round of 48. She was eliminat­ed from the main draw later that day by Michigan’s Bektas, who won 6-3, 6-2. 
“We got to watch a lot of our teammates play and they look like they’re doing pretty well, too,” Frilling said. “I think we all have things that we can work on, but it’s good that we have a few more months 


before the season so that we the nation at the ITA National the annual Eck Tennis Classic can work on our games to get Individual Indoor Champion-Nov. 4-6. ready for next year.” ship in New York City Nov. 
Frilling and Mathews will 3-6. Meanwhile, the rest of Contact Vicky Jacobsen at take on the toughest duos in the squad will be busy hosting vjacobse@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish excel at tourney in Ohio 

By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish successfully com­peted in the Midwest Singles/ Doubles Championship in Co­lumbus, Ohio over fall break, building on success the team has had throughout the sea­son. 
Senior Casey Watt advanced to the semifinals before falling to Ohio State’s Blaz Rolla, who was the eventual champion. 
“[Watt] played his best ten­nis of the year,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “He showed a lot of improvement in many areas and it was also very encouraging to see him play even better as the tourna­ment went on. Overall, I was very pleased.” 
Seniors Niall Fitzgerald and Sam Keeton and sophomores Greg Andrews and Billy Pecor joined Watt in the round of 16. The five Irish players in the round of 16 were second most to Ohio State’s six. 
“Whenever you can put es­sentially a third of the guys into the round of 16, you have to look at your team’s play as pretty strong,” Bayliss said. “I feel like we had some excellent performances especially when you consider the strong com­petition at the event.” 

In addition to Watt, Fitzger­ald also represented the Irish in the quarterfinals of the tournament. 
“[Fitzgerald] had a break­through tournament for us,” Bayliss said. “He fought through some tough competi­tion to play his way into the quarterfinals. It was great to see him put his play together for an entire tournament. His play definitely reached anoth­er level” 
The Irish also saw their doubles teams of Watt and An­drews and Fitzgerald and ju­nior Spencer Talmedge reach the quarterfinals. 
“[Fitzgerald and Talmedge] probably had a chance to ad­vance even further,” Bayliss said. “However, [Fitzgerald] was battling a bit of a sore arm after playing four match­es Saturday. He was able to play through it, but he prob­ably was not at the top of his game.” 
After the Midwest Champi­onship, the Irish noticed holes in their game and can put their upcoming spring season into perspective. 
“We can definitely continue our improvement in doubles,” Bayliss said. “We also need to start making decisions about who is going to be in the singles lineup for us in the spring. We have a strong nucleus of nine or 10 guys who can definitely play, so it will be interesting to see who will separate themselves.” 
The Irish will complete the fall portion of their schedule when they compete in the Go­pher Invitational at the Uni­versity of Minnesota on Nov. 3-6. 


Contact walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles prepare to end streak against Adrian 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles are looking to snap a seven-game losing streak as they prepare to take on Adrian in their second to last game of the regular sea­son. 
Saint Mary’s (7-16, 5-9 MIAA) most recent loss came at the hands of No. 15-ranked Hope. The Flying Dutch (21-4, 12-1 MIAA) put a damper on the Belles’ last home match of the season and did not allow them to score more than 13 points in any of the three sets. 
Hope also made history by setting a school three-set re­cord for attack percentage, recording 42 kills on 71 at­tempts with just two errors for a .563 attack percentage. 
Belles coach Toni Kuschel acknowledged Hope’s high skill level. 
“Hope is a very tough, tal­ented team,” she said. “We needed to win the serving and passing game if we wanted to compete with them, which we were not able to do Saturday.” 
Kuschel said her team is not discouraged by their recent results, and they look forward to trying to end their season on a positive note. 
“We have a chance to win the last two matches of our season,” she said. “We are looking forward to playing two good teams in our confer­ence well and to the best of our ability.” 
Adrian will be the first of those two teams. The Bull­dogs (7-19. 4-9 MIAA) suf­fered a 3-0 loss to the Belles on Sept. 24. The Belles hope for a similar outcome this time around. 
“We will need to play at the level we are capable of [in order to beat Adrian],” Kus­chel said. “We will need to serve them aggressively and run our offense. Our hitters will need to do a good job of putting the ball away consis­tently.” 
Kuschel said she is confi­dent in her team’s resiliency. 
“We need to bounce back from a very tough, competi­tive week of volleyball,” she said. “We are capable to play at a much higher level than we did this weekend.” 
Saint Mary’s will have a chance to bounce back when it plays Adrian on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 


Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary’s loses four MIAA games over break 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles dropped four straight games against confer­ence opponents Alma, Adrian, Kalamazoo and Calvin over fall break. 
“It was a tough week and the results didn’t go as well as we had hoped,” Belles coach Mi­chael Joyce said. “I think our shortfall was our play in the boxes — both offensively and defensively.” 
Saint Mary’s (8-9, 4-9) lost to Alma on Oct. 15 in a 2-1 de­cision. Alma put up 18 shots in the first half to the Belles’ two. Despite this shot differ­ential, the Scots only managed one goal in the first half. 
In the first five minutes of the second half, senior for­ward Katelyn Tondo-Steele had a header blocked by the Alma goalie. Not long after, the Scots scored their second goal. 
Sophomore forward Kait­lin Teichman scored her first collegiate goal off a pass from Tondo-Steele to end the game. 
“Against good teams that are probably going to be tak­ing more shots than you, you really need to be sharp in back and make sure you don’t give up anything too easy,” Joyce said. “I think we fell short with that.” 
Adrian then blanked the Belles 3-0 Tuesday. The teams were tied 0-0 until just before halftime when the Bulldogs converted a corner-kick into the first goal of the game. Ear­ly in the second half, Adrian secured its second goal off a header. The third goal for the Bulldogs showed up in the last 20 minutes of play. 
“We created some good op­portunities and had some good looks at goal, but didn’t finish,” Joyce said. 
Saint Mary’s suffered a 2-0 loss Thursday against Kalam­azoo. Freshman goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum per­formed well in the first half and saved five shots in the first 11 minutes. In the last five minutes of the half, the Hornets were finally able to overcome the Belles’ defense in a long shot on goal, bring­ing the match to 1-0. The Hor­nets’ second goal came off of a converted corner kick par­tially through the second half. 
On Saturday, Calvin took an early lead and secured two goals in the first 20 minutes of their 5-0 win over Saint Mary’s. The Belles were un­able to stop the Knights’ de­fense in the second half, as the Knights scored three straight goals without opposition. 
“It is a hit on the morale to lose a few in a row,” Joyce said. “Hopefully the sting of a few defeats will motivate the play­ers as well.  I think if we have the motivation, we’ll come out with two victories this week.” 
The Belles will work to break their losing streak Wednesday at 4 p.m. when they play Al­bion at home. 


Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame places 2nd at Hoosier Invitational 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Though the Irish turned in their best team and individual finishes of the season, a second-place team finish trailing by only one-stroke left them disappointed af­ter the Hoosier Fall Invitational at Crooked Stick Golf Club in Carmel, Ind. over the weekend. 
Senior captain Becca Huffer took home the individual title by three strokes on the strength of a 71-stroke final round. The rainy fi­nal day also saw Notre Dame card three rounds in the 80s, however, which pushed Eastern Michigan to a one-stroke victory. 
“I’m not very pleased,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We went down there looking for a win, then blew a four shot lead on the last day.” 
The Irish were paced in the first two rounds by freshman Ashley Armstrong, who led all players with a two-over 146 heading into the final round. Armstrong’s sec­ond round score of 71 was the low­est of her collegiate career. Fresh­man Kelli Oride also contributed to Notre Dame’s youth movement, rallying from a first round 78 to shoot 73 and 74 over the second and third rounds. 
“Ashley got off to a very good start for us, and Kelli [Oride] played very well, too,” Holt said. “We’re getting good individual performances, but were lacking the consistency we need right now.” 
Huffer’s performance was an especially bright spot for the Irish. She registered the first individual win of her career. Despite the rainy conditions, Huffer was on her game in the final round with a one-under finish. 
Holt said the title couldn’t have gone to a more deserving player. 
“[Huffer] was leading a tourna­ment last year at Georgia State, and somebody shot a 66 in the last round to beat her by a stroke, so it was nice to see her get the win,” Holt said. “Crooked Stick is a very challenging golf course. You have to keep your attention and focus, and she was able to do that.” 
With just one tournament re­maining on their fall schedule, Notre Dame will try to continue improving and hope to put togeth­er a complete team performance. 
“In order to maximize our po­tential, we need to play to our abil­ities right now,” Holt said. “I know we have the talent, and that’s the most frustrating thing. We’re just looking for three solid rounds.” 
The Irish will finish their fall campaign when they head to the Landfall Tradition in Wilmington, 
N.C. for a three-day tournament starting Friday. 


Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 
Scodro leads Irish at tourney 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
As the fall season winds down, building momentum and continuity for the spring season are paramount for Notre Dame. The Irish took a step toward that goal Oct. 17 and 18 at the Invitational at Kiawah Island at the Ocean Course in Kiawah Island, S.C. Notre Dame finished seventh in a 12-team field with a +29 mark, while Florida ran away with the tournament, finish­ing at -6. 
“I don’t think our team played as well as they could have,” Irish coach Jim Kubin­ski said. “But the good news is that we’re right where we need to be NCAA-wise head­ing into the off-season. The fall has seen a lot of ups and downs for us, but I don’t think this tournament sets us back.” 
As has been the story for much of the year, the Irish struggled to put together a complete team effort in South Carolina, the kind of effort Kubinski said is necessary to compete for championships. 
“We can’t have just two or three guys shoot low rounds,” Kubinski said. “We need that consistency from everybody. I have a lot of confidence in our guys. They’re much too solid for it not to come together.” 
Junior Max Scodro led the Irish in the individual stand­ings, and finished in a tie for seventh place with an even par three rounds. With the oftentimes frustrating incon­sistencies of the Irish, Scodro has been the rock all year for Notre Dame. 
“I think Max [Scodro] has finished near the top of ev­ery event we’ve played all season,” Kubinski said. “So it was no surprise to see him perform well at Kiawah.” 
Junior Paul McNamara and sophomore Niall Platt finished 23rd and 27th respectively for the Irish. 
The event yielded the tour­nament debut of sophomore Andrew Lane. The format of the invitational allowed for a six-man field, and Kubin­ski inserted the sophomore to improve the team’s depth and give Lane playing experience. 

“It was good for Lane to get some tournament action,” Ku­binski said. “He would be the first to tell you that he can play better, but I think that goes for all of our team. We’re very confident in our starting five, but we’re always looking to develop our golfers.” 
The Irish now turn to their last competition on the fall calendar, the Royal Oaks In­tercollegiate in Dallas, which begins Oct. 31. 


Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


back of the net despite falling 
Lee Compton 
to the ground as he dug the 
puck out of his skates. 
continued from page 24 That’s not to say the Irish 
can’t play pretty. Lee’s first 
“That first play, T.J. and Bry­
continued from page 24 

twice as much money as the goal of his hat trick came an, they set that play up,” Lee 
Compton Family did. Calling on one of the most gorgeous said. “Once again my success 
it “the new barn” doesn’t even plays imaginable. When Notre tonight was based on my team-
do the CFIA justice — it’s far Dame can control the puck, it mates. We all worked hard and 
too state-of-the-art for that. holds a death grip on the feel we all played well tonight.” 
And it’s not just pretty. It’s of the game. When Lee and fel-RPI quickly answered the 
loud. low standout sophomore T.J. Irish, however, when Irish ju-
The environment on the Tynan are clicking, they play nior goaltender Mike Johnson 
southeast corner of campus well enough to warm even the lost sight of the puck behind his 
was raucous Friday night and unflappable Jackson’s heart. own goal and Engineer senior 
figures to be so far into the fu-And when junior goaltender center Joel Malchuk wrapped 
ture. With 5,022 fans on their Mike Johnson stops thinking the puck into the net at the 
feet, a gorgeous video screen and just starts playing, he’s 
13:25 mark. 
hanging over the ice, O’Brien’s more than capable of reeling 
The first 20 minutes ended 

Pub in the mezzanine level off impressive performances. with the score knotted at one 
and a low ceiling trapping And let’s not forget the guy goal apiece and RPI holding a 
all the noise, the Irish finally behind the bench. 7-6 advantage in shots. But the 
have a true home-ice advan-Jackson has done an out-Irish took control in the second 
tage. And when sophomore standing job coaching the period. 
left wing phenom Anders Lee absurdly talented sophomore Lee added his second goal of 
opened the scoring in the first class and has brought in an-the game to put Notre Dame 
period, the foghorn was deaf-other talented freshman class. up 2-1 just 1:09 into the period 
ening — yet the students were He’s found talent and made it with a simple wrist shot from 
louder. better — Lee has improved the left faceoff circle that man-
Sure, it may be so far away dramatically from his break-aged to elude Merriam. Tynan 
from the center of campus out campaign a year ago. and Calabrese added assists on 
that I decided to drive down Jackson knows how to the play. 
to the game, but the Compton coach this team. He knows The Irish continued the at-
Family Ice Arena is what col-how to keep them focused de­tack throughout the period and 
lege hockey is all about. spite the new surroundings ultimately pushed the margin 
Yet that’s not why tickets and the high expectations, to two with 5:23 remaining. 
are going to be at a premium and he’s instilled a culture in Senior defenseman and co-
all season long. As nice as the which the Irish are never sat-captain Sean Lorenz released made the score 4-2, Lee iced the I thought.” 
ice is, the product on the ice is isfied. They just continue to a shot from in between the top game with an empty-net goal Despite a number of helpful 
even better. improve and get better. The of the faceoff circles, just before with 1:20 remaining to secure factors, including a boisterous 
The Irish are simply a dan-team that takes the ice in Feb-getting checked, which sailed his hat-trick. crowd and strong play from Lee 
gerous team. Fast, physical ruary will be far better than off the post and into the net. Jackson was full of praise and Johnson, Jackson said sim-
and smart, they have loads the already-skilled squad that The Irish outshot the Engineers for Lee following the game, but ple puck possession was just as 
of talent both on the blue line took the ice last week. 14-2 in the middle stanza and gave himself a little bit of credit important to the outcome. 
and up top. Even more impor-The architects of the new entered the final 20 minutes up for the sophomore’s hat-trick, “I thought we were much 
tantly, Jeff Jackson’s squad building should be compli­3-1. as well. better with the puck,” he said. 
knows how good it can be but mented. Not only did they de-Irish coach Jeff Jackson said “[Lee’s] a horse,” Jackson “The only times we got in trou­
still takes one game at a time. sign a spectacular building, the increased noise in the new said. “He’s hard to control. He’s ble were when we made bad 
And while there may be loads but they also did not forget the arena helped spur the Irish. such a big strong, power-for-plays with the puck. I thought 
of talent both on the ice and most important element: lots “I thought that the crowd ward type of kid and he com-we made good progress tonight, 
on the bench, Notre Dame has of room in the rafters. helped motivate the guys when petes hard. He seems to be pret-which is a starting point. We 
the more important quality of they started a little bit on a roll ty good at the empty-net at the have to continue to get better at 
knowing how to grit out goals. Contact Allan Joseph at in the second period,” Jackson end of the game, too. He’s got that, especially now that we’re 
Just look at the second-period ajoseph2@nd.edu said. “I thought the crowd got a few of those. He has to thank on the road for four games. 
goal senior captain Sean Lo-The views expressed in into the game, and that to me is me for putting him on the ice in If we play loose with the puck 
renz scored. It wasn’t a pretty this column are those of the really the most important thing those situations.” we’re going to have real prob-
play, but Lorenz somehow author and not necessarily about this building — creating Johnson, who finished with lems on the road.” 
managed to fire a shot into the those of The Observer. that environment that’s like col-15 saves, also impressed Jack-The Irish travel to Bowling lege hockey. And that was like son. Green to play the Falcons on college hockey.” “I thought [Johnson] looked Friday and Saturday. They will 
or more goals. In the third period, junior real confident,” Jackson said. return home to compete in the 
Hoyas 

The Irish continued their Big center Riley Sheahan scored a “If he just goes in and plays Compton Family Ice Arena on 
East success at Pittsburgh on power play goal on a one-timer that way where he’s not think-Nov. 11 and 12 against Alaska. 
continued from page 24 Saturday, where sophomore off a pass from senior right wing ing about it, he could be one of 
forward Harry Shipp’s two and co-captain Billy Maday at the top goalies in the country. Contact Sam Gans at 
Three Irish forwards com-goals — and almost a third the 1:39 mark. Though RPI later And he played that way tonight, sgans@nd.edu 
bined for goals at Notre Dame’s — led Notre Dame to another 
shutout on Hoya turf. First, ju-win. 
nior forward Danny O’Leary “Though [Shipp] was only 
led the Irish scoring rally. credited with two goals, I 
“It was an absolutely beau-think he really scored three,” 
Alugbue 
tiful goal,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. Clark said. Notre Dame’s first goal came 
continued from page 24 

The Hoyas outshot the Irish with the help of a Pittsburgh 18-16, but were not able to take defender who tapped a shot large role in the Irish slugging 
their shot advantage past Irish of Shipp’s into their own goal. an impressive .326 in the match. 
senior goalkeeper Will Walsh. The credit officially went to Freshman Jeni Houser contrib­
“We played well,” Clark the team on the first point. uted 10 kills, and sophomore 
said. “It was a good game, and Shipp sent one past the Pan-Andrea McHugh chipped in with 
it was much closer than the ther goalkeeper in the 33rd nine. 
score suggests.” minute for a 2-0 lead into the Brown attributed the success 
Junior forward Ryan Finley half. He responded again 2:14 to a tactical change made before 
and senior forward Michael into the second half and the the match. 
Rose each added a goal before Irish carried their advantage “We moved [junior Hilary 
the end of the game. through the rest of the game. Eppink] from the middle to the 
“It was nice that some goals “We completed passes. We right side and went with a 6-2 
fell in for us during that game,” created chances. The team formation,” Brown said. “We 
Clark said. “Before, at Mar-looked very good,” Clark said. thought it gave us a chance to 
quette, that just wasn’t hap-Notre Dame outshot Pitts-have four hitters up front and 
pening for us, so it was nice burgh 15-1 in the first 45 min-more effective blocking.  I’m 
to see that change during the utes of play, then again domi­happy with how it worked, and 
Georgetown game. It was over-nated the Panthers nine shots it gives us another wrinkle to we are getting to where we need way to a 3-0 (25-23, 25-17, 25­
all a good performance.” to six in the second half. throw in when we need it.” to be. We switched back to our 19) Irish victory. 
Finley’s goal was his fifth of “It was a very good perfor-The Irish then traveled to Ha-normal set after the first match, “We actually didn’t substi­
the season and secured his po-mance, especially in the first waii to take on the No. 8 Rain-and that’s definitely where we tute at all against South Flori­
sition as the team-leading goal half,” Clark said. “We played bow Wahine in a pair of match-want to be most of the time.” da,” Brown said. “We ran with 
scorer. well in the second half too, es. Despite breaking Hawaii’s Finally, on Sunday the Irish the same people all the way 
“There are a lot more goals but to outscore a team 15-1 streak of 17 straight sets won at took on USF at home decked out through. It was a good to get a 
to come for Ryan, quite a few on their ground was very de­home, the Irish fell in both con-in pink uniforms for their “Dig victory. We took care of what 
more from him,” Clark said. cisive. We demonstrated our tests, 3-0 (5-18, 25-23, 25-17), Pink” match to raise money and we needed to in-conference, 
“I wouldn’t be surprised if he superiority.” and 3-1 (25-15, 25-18, 22-25, 25-awareness for the fight against so I’m pretty satisfied with our 
doubled the number of goals The Irish will travel to play 21). breast cancer. Led by senior performance over the academic 
he has before the end of the Providence on Oct. 26, then Despite the losses, Brown said captains Kristen Dealy and break.” 
season. He’s a predator, and he play West Virginia at home her team’s level of play improved Frenchy Silva, whose 20 and 17 The Irish return to the court 
looks to score goals. He’s been Oct. 29 before they meet Seton consistently in the Aloha State. digs respectively contributed to Oct. 29 against Connecticut in 
unlucky that he doesn’t have Hall for their last home game “We went to Hawaii to win,” the 62 total digs for the team on Storrs, Conn. 
more.” of the regular season Oct. 31. Brown said. “We always do, so the day, the Irish defense held 
The win against Georgetown in that sense we were disap-the Bulls (9-12, 5-3 Big East) to Contact Conor Kelly at 
marked the first time that the Contact Molly Sammon at pointed. But overall, I feel that a .107 hitting percentage on the ckelly17@nd.edu 
Hoyas lost by a margin of two msammon@nd.edu 




JODI LO/The Observer 

Irish senior defender Jessica Schuveiler dribbles during Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over Villanova on Oct. 16 at Alumni Stadium. 
Records 
continued from page 24 
of the best players to ever wear an Irish jersey.” 
Irish senior midfielder Brynn Gerstle recorded her second goal of the season midway through the second half. Four different Irish players were credited with assists in the game, including senior defend­ers Jessica Schuveiller and Mol­that came to support the Irish. 
“The way the underclassmen gave [the seniors] gifts before the game, and even though the students weren’t here, we still had close to 1,500 people,” he said. “I couldn’t have scripted it better.” 
Notre Dame’s win against Vil­lanova secured a first-round bye for the Irish in the Big East tournament. The Irish are set to face No. 17 Marquette in the quarterfinals. The Golden Ea­gles (17-2, 10-1 Big East) defeat­
ly Campbell. 
DePaul freshman for­ward Rachel Pitman’s goal with 40 sec­onds remain­ing prevented the Irish from recording their sixth shutout of the season. 
Irish junior goalkeeper Maddie Fox did not allow a goal, while collecting two 

“Our kids are really looking forward to going to Marquette for a chance to redeem themselves. Marquette’s a tough place to play. It should be good quarterfinals for both [schools], and we’re really looking forward to it.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
ed the Irish in overtime by a score of 3-2 on Sept. 25. 
Wald rum said the team has a chip on its shoul­der from their match a month ago. 
“It’s a game we think we gave away all three goals. I don’t want to take away anything from Mar quett e 
saves on the day. Freshman goalkeeper Jennifer Jasper re­placed Fox and made her col­legiate debut late in the second half. Jasper allowed one goal and picked up two saves. 
“It was obviously a lot of fun. We’ve historically been really good on senior night,” Waldrum said. “I was happy we could send them out the right way. We played a solid game all the way through. The second half explo­sion of goals allowed us to get some kids some rest and get all the seniors on, even a few who haven’t played as much.” 
Waldrum said he was im­pressed by the number of fans because they have a very good program, but we don’t feel they earned those three goals,” Wal­drum said. 
“Our kids are really looking forward to going to Marquette for a chance to redeem them­selves. Marquette’s a tough place to play. It should be good quarterfinals for both [schools], and we’re really looking for­ward to it.” 
The Irish return to action Sunday at Marquette at a time to be determined in the Big East Quarterfinals. 


Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



DAVID L. HOyT 
JON REPINE 
JUMBLE
EXPND 
JEFF KNUREK 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Tuesday, October 25, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
HOCKEY 
Housewarming party 
Irish open new arena 

CFIA finally a fitting with resounding win 
home for talented ND 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 

Wow. That’s really all that can Notre Dame’s debut in the 
be said about the brand-new brand-new Compton Family 
Compton Family Ice Arena. Ice Arena was rocking — both 
After 43 in the crowd and on the ice — 
years of as the Irish earned a 5-2 vic­
playing in tory over RPI in the first game 
half of the played at the state-of-the-art fa-
Joyce Center cility, with sophomore forward 
Fieldhouse, Anders Lee notching a hat-trick 
43 years of in the process. 
struggling The sellout crowd of 5,022 — 
to build an the largest number of people to 
intimidat ­ever watch a hockey game at 
ing envi-Notre Dame — was lively before 
ronment, the contest even began. The 
43 years of Irish (3-2-0) sent the arena into 
having nicer pandemonium early against the 
amenities Engineers (1-4-0) as Lee scored 
on the road than at home, 43 the first goal in the new build-
years of recruiting players who ing 9:21 into the game. 
played in better rinks in midget The play was set up when ju­
hockey and 43 years of mak­nior defenseman Sam Calabrese 
ing do anyway, the Irish finally corralled the puck near the blue 
have a new home. line and sent it low down the 
And boy, is it beautiful. boards. Following two impres-
Notre Dame hasn’t just sive passes by fellow sophomore 
caught up to everyone else; the forwards T.J. Tynan and Bryan 
CFIA has blown away nearly Rust, Lee found himself alone 
every other arena in college with the puck at the top of the 
hockey. Only North Dakota’s crease and easily slotted it past 
11,640-seat Ralph Engelstad RPI junior goaltender Bryce 
Arena is in the same league — Merriam. and Engelstad spent more than 
see LEE/page 21 see COMPTON/page 21 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame earns two Big East wins over break 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Two big in-conference wins against Georgetown and Pitts­burgh over the past two weeks boosted No. 15 Notre Dame’s confidence just a week shy of the Big East Tournament. 
After previously dropping four spots in the polls from an Oct. 12 loss against Marquette, the Irish blanked the No. 20 Hoyas 3-0 in Washington D.C. on Oct. 15 and beat the Panthers 3-1 at Pittsburgh on Saturday for a chance to climb back up national ranks. 
The Irish were scheduled to play Seton Hall at Notre Dame over fall break, but the game was postponed due to weather. 
see HOYAS/page 21 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

ND picks up conference wins, loses to Hawaii 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish stayed busy over fall break with four matches, notch­ing Big East wins over DePaul and USF, but dropping a pair of non-conference matches to Ha­waii. The wins push the Irish (12-8, 5-3 Big East) into a tie with Syracuse and USF for fifth place in the Big East. 
“Overall I was pretty pleased with how our matches went over the break,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “I thought we got two strong victories, and we’re really raising our level of play.” 
Led by freshman Toni Alug­bue and her 16 kills, the Irish dispatched DePaul (4-16, 1-6 Big East) on the road 3-1 (25-13, 23-25, 25-20, 25-11).  Alugbue’s .448 hitting percentage played a 
see ALUGBUE/page 21 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish defeat DePaul in finale 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished the regu­lar season in record-setting fashion against DePaul on Fri­day’s senior night and defeated the Blue Demons 5-1 at Alumni Stadium. 
Notre Dame (9-6-3, 6-3-2 Big East) completed its three-game home stand with a 2-1 record, ending the regular season with two consecutive wins. The Irish fell to Georgetown (14-5, 8-3 Big East) 3-2 on Oct. 14 and defeated Villanova (8-9-2, 4-7 Big East) 3-1 on Oct. 16. 
Irish senior forward Melissa Henderson set or tied seven school records Friday against the Blue Demons (3-14-1, 0-9-1 Big East), when she scored four of the team’s five goals. Hen­derson’s sixth career hat trick tied the school record, and her third hat trick of the season equaled another high in the record books. 
Henderson put the Irish on the board at the 12:12 mark, but that would be Notre Dame’s lone first-half goal. The Irish were in control of a 1-0 lead over the Blue Demons at half­time. 
Henderson could not be stopped in what might have been her final game at Alum­ni Stadium. She had all 1,309 fans on their feet when she net­ted two goals just 58 seconds apart from each other. Her final goal of the night — and 17th goal of the season — came with just over eight minutes re­maining in the game. 

Irish coach Randy Waldrum could not help but laugh when asked about Henderson’s per­formance. 
“I didn’t realize [Henderson] had broken so many [records]. I [can’t] put into words how im­portant she’s been for our pro­gram over the past four years,” Waldrum said. “I was very happy for her; her mom and brother were here and so many friends. We got all eight [se­niors] on the field one last time at home. Henderson is clearly going to go down as one 
see RECORDS/page 22 





