
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘Occupy Wall Street’ spreads 
Economic disparity spurs grassroots protests, business professors say 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The “Occupy Wall Street” grassroots movement protest­ing the country’s economic dis­parity began in New York City, but has recently spread across the country to reach South Bend. 
Notre Dame business profes­sors say the growing gap be­tween a wealthy minority at the top and the bottom 99 percent 



CSC panel discusses missions 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 

As Fr. Ken Thesing rode his motorcycle to a sub-parish center on Christmas Day in Tanzania several years ago, he said people were plowing their fields and scattering seeds in the fields he passed. 
When he saw this, Thesing said he realized they were not celebrating the holiday because their religious com­munities did nothing to honor Christmas. 
This story was only one ex­ample of the cultural differ­ences between missionaries like Thesing and the people they serve. Thesing and two other missionary priests at a panel discussion Monday discussed their work in Latin America and Africa as part of the order of Maryknoll Fa­thers and Brothers. 
The priests from the Maryk­noll Fathers and Brothers dis-

Doctoral program earns accreditation 


By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The University’s doctoral program in clinical psycholo­gy recently earned accredita­tion from the American Psy­chological Association (APA), program director Scott Mon­roe said. 
“We’ve transformed from a University without a clinical 

see PSYCH/page 5 
of the population has motivated many to join the uproar. 
Finance professor Richard Sheehan said 90 percent of in­come gain from the past few 

see OCCUPY/page 4 



Sophomores pursue off-campus housing 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 

While senior year may seem far in the future for the class of 2014, many sophomores look­ing to rent an ideal off-campus house begin their search as early as this semester. 
Off-campus concerns chair Emily LeStrange said inter­ested students should do ad­equate research on a property before signing a lease. 
“The best piece of advice I can give is to encourage new renters to talk to people they know currently rent[ing] from a certain landlord or hous­ing agency,” LeStrange said. “They can give you honest feedback about their experi­ences and can point you in the right direction.” 
LeStrange said students of­ten feel pressure from land­lords or housing agencies to sign a lease before they have time to fully comprehend its stipulations. 
“You should take the time to review the agreement and ask any questions if they arise,” LeStrange said. “There will always be housing off campus, so don’t feel rushed to make an agreement.” 
Students should fully com­prehend any financial terms of the lease, LeStrange said. She advised prospective rent­ers to especially understand what utilities are included in the rent and how rent payment would be scheduled. 
“Even some minor things may be in the lease, like a pol­icy on pets,” LeStrange said. “It’s important to really un­derstand the agreement. Most students forget that a lease is a binding legal document, and I think it is very important to always keep that in mind.” 
Off-campus president Tess Fitzpatrick said safety is an­other key factor in choosing a house. 
“Some apartments and housing areas are known for robberies, and students need to know the safety aspect in­volved in moving off campus,” Fitzpatrick said. 
LeStrange suggested stu­dents read crime reports for the area if they are unsure of the neighborhood’s history. The off-campus student web­site, offcampus.nd.edu, in­cludes complete crime reports filed by students in the sur­rounding area. 
“It’s important to be an in­formed renter,” LeStrange said. “Sometimes this means you need to gather your own information about the neigh­borhood you are going to live in.” 
see RENTALS/page 4 


cussed their experiences as missionaries in Geddes Hall during a panel titled, “Going Where You Are Needed But Not Necessarily Loved.” 
Despite cultural divides, the missionaries said their work taught them how to ad­dress the specific needs in the communities they served. 
Fr. Robert Pelton, a former Notre Dame professor and 


see CSC/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC launces redesgined website page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Siam Thai restaurant review page 9 u Women’s soccer alters lineup page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Tuesday, October 11, 2011 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE MOST EXCITING THING YOU ARE DOING IN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS? 








www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 


Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Brendan  Jen Cardinale  Johnny Romano  Madeline  Mary Kate  
Melchiorri  Rukavina  Veselik  
junior  freshman McGlinn  sophomore Dillon  freshman  sophomore  
Sorin “Having  “Going to the Jersey Shore to  “FOTO benefit. Everyone should  McGlinn “Going to  Pangborn “Going to Ireland  
imaginary conversations with myself.”  maybe hang out with Snookie.”  come out. It’s for the kids.”  horse races in Kentucky.”  for fall break.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Megan Doyle Adam Llorens Emma Russ 

Graphics 
Lauren Kalinoski 

Photo 
Thomas La 

Sports 
Andrew Owens Joe Monardo Conor Kelly 

Scene 
Courtney Cox 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 
Valuable horse hair stolen in Montana 
BELGRADE, Mont. — A Montana woman says she knows it sounds mean, but she hopes her horse at least tried to kick the person that cut the hair off her tail. 
Belgrade-area resident Alisha Novotny tells KTVM­TV that she noticed her mare, Raz, was missing the hair from her tail last Sun­day morning. 
She says it looks like who­ever did it “just grabbed pretty fast and chopped.” 
Novotny says horse hair can be valuable — especial­ly white hair like Raz’s — for making belts and bridles and key chains. She says she felt “violated” when she re­alized a stranger had been 


LOCAL WEATHER 
in the horse’s pen. 

Gallatin County authori­ties say this isn’t the first time a horse owner in the area as found an animal missing hair from its tail. Officials with the Belgrade Police Department say it’s been an ongoing issue for about six months. 
Turkey drop discontinued at Arkansas festival 
YELLVILLE, Ark. — Turns out turkeys don’t fly. 
The Baxter Bulletin re­ports that attendees at the Turkey Trot festival in Yell-ville were disappointed when no turkeys dropped from planes on Friday or Saturday. 
The turkey drop is a main­stay of the event in northern Arkansas, though organiz­ers don’t sanction it. Sup­porters say the turkeys can fly just enough to descend safely, but animal-rights ad­vocates call it cruel. 
The People for the Ethi­cal Treatment of Animals posted a $5,000 bounty for information leading to an arrest. The Federal Aviation Administration said any pi­lots dropping turkeys could lose their licenses. 
People at the festival wore “I am the Phantom Pilot” T-shirts, and at least one sign offered a $10,000 reward for the arrest of the PETA em­ployee who came up with the $5,000 bounty. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Daniel Shantz, professor and director of the Materials Characterization Facility at Texas A&M University, will host a seminar titled “Un­derstanding the Interplay between Synthesis and Re­activity of Tin-containing Zeolites” today from  3 to 4 
p.m. The seminar will take place in Room 102 DeBar­tolo Hall. 
Author John Phillip San­tos will read from his newest book “The Farthest Home is in an Empire of Fire” to­day at 4:30 p.m. in Room 202 McKenna Hall. A book signing and sales reception will follow the reading. The event is free and open to ev­eryone. 
Theology professor David Fagerberg will host a lec­ture titled “Turkish Delight and Asceticism in C.S. Lew­is’ Chronicles of Narnia” to­night from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. The lecture will take place in the Geddes Hall Audito­rium. Turkish delight will be served to all attendees. 
There will be a Catholic Charismatic prayer meet­ing tonight from 7:30 to 
8:30 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Meetings take place every Tuesday night in Alumni. 
The Center for Social Concerns will host an infor­mational meeting for Inter­national Summer Service Learning Programs (ISSLP) tonight from 8 to 9 p.m. The meeting will take place in the McNeill Library of Ged­des Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 












CORRECTIONS 
In the Oct. 9 issue of the Irish Insider, an “Adding Up the Numbers” item said Andrew Hendrix scored on his 78-yard run in the fourth quarter. Hendrix was stopped at the 2-yard line. The Observer apologizes for the error. 
HIGH 73 LOW 64 

HIGH 74 LOW 54 
HIGH 61 LOW 50 

HIGH 55 LOW 45 
HIGH 59 LOW 49 

Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Fiction author discusses writing, promotes book 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News Writer 
Several dozen Saint Mary’s students studying the work of author Grant Bailie met the fiction writer in person Mon­day. 
The Cleveland-based author promoted his upcoming book “TomorrowLand,” a compila­tion of short stories.  Bailie read excerpts from the work in the Haggar College Center. 
Bailie said he found a love for the arts at a young age. While growing up, Bailie said he knew he would be a painter or a writer. 
“If I was talking to my art teacher, I would say I wanted to be a writer,” Bailie said. “If I was talking to my English teacher, I would say I wanted to be an painter. I was diffi­cult that way.” 
While Bailie ultimately chose to take up a pen rath­er than a paintbrush, he said he still indulges his love for drawing. 
“I draw illustrations to see what image I’m trying to por­tray,” Bailie said. 
Bailie is well known as an author that is unafraid to take unique approaches to his craft. In 2005, he partici­pated in a controversial live-art installation called “Novel: A Living Installation at Flux Factory.” During the proj­ect, he lived in the gallery for two months and wrote while guests watched. 
“I do very well in captivity, as it turns out,” Bailie said of his month in isolation. 
During the live-in art in­stallation he completed two novels, “New Hope for Small Men” and “The Buddha Pill.” 
Bailie compared books to dreams. 
“I like them to go in ways I don’t expect,” Bailie said. “I want this when I read and when I write.” 
Bailie’s said his novels cen­ter around a “nostalgic disap­pointment in the future.” 
In “TomorrowLand,” Bailie said he wrote the book with an abstract structure. 
“The book itself was a law­yer who became a security guard, who became a real estate agent, who became a book,” Bailie said as he ex­plained the book’s intended format. 


The author said he recogniz­es that depressing sentimen­talism doesn’t exactly entice the readers and acknowledges the genius in comic relief. His novels take on a cynical tone rather than a depressed one, he said. 
“A great deal of humor keeps life in perspective,” Bailie said. “Any great art has hu­mor in it, like Shakespeare.” 
Contact Rebecca o’Neil at    roneil@saintmarys.edu 




Saint Mary’s College redesigns website 
By ANNA BOARINI for both prospective students News Writer and their parents more prom­
inent, but also made specific 

Saint Mary’s launched its content areas for professors redesigned website Satur-and current students more day after over four years of prominent.” research contributed to the McDonald said another site’s facelift. goal of the redesign was to 
Junior Kaley Braunsdorf make the website more inter-said her first impressions on esting and effective. the new site are positive. “We looked a lot at our in­
“The website seems easi-stitutional peers and how er to navigate,” Braunsdorf they present their websites,” said. “It’s nice to have some-she said. “This told us we thing new.” had opportunities for how 
Karen McDonald, assistant we could more effectively vice president of marketing and interestingly utilize the commu-sight.” nications, The new said the website also original site features links launched in to Facebook 2007 and and Twitter 
over the last  “We looked a lot at  for  the  Col- 
four years, a dedicated team col- our institutional peers and how they present their websites.”  lege. Mc D o n -ald said the  
lected data  change  will  
to improve the College website.  Karen McDonald assistant vice president of  help stu­dents, faculty and members  
“We  have  marketing communications  of  the  Saint  
in  the  last  Mary’s  com- 
four  years  munity  navi­ 
been  doing  gate the page  
re s e a rc h  with ease.  
on  prospec­ “We  really  
tive  stu­ didn’t  feel  

dents and their parents, to that the old design perspec­see how they use the website tive gave you a place of what during their college search,” Saint Mary’s was,” she said. McDonald said. “We also McDonald said now the site use Google analytics, which is very clean and stream­[director of web and inter-lined. active communication] Dan-“After four years, a site iel [Miller] has used to fig-tends to get a little muddled,” ure out what’s working and she said. what’s not working.” Senior Becky Johnson no-
Miller said one of the main ticed the change and said it goals of the website redesign was for the better. was to make information for “It’s nice that there is a prospective students more major page, which is huge,” visible on the sight. Johnson said. “It was hard to 
“Our primary goal was, find before, and it allows in-based on our research on coming students to see what prospective students, to Saint Mary’s has to offer.” present information in a bet­ter manner,” Miller said. “We Contact anna Boarini at  made more specific sections aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Tuesday, October 11, 2011 


SMC sister teams provide support 


By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
When the pressure of schoolwork and sports begins to stress a Saint Mary’s ath­lete, she can turn to a member of her sister team for support. Each year, the Department of Athletics pairs athletic teams as sister teams that support each other throughout their season. 
Belles cross-country coach Jackie Bauters said the sister team program is beneficial to student athletes. 
“I really like the sister teams because it gives our athletes a way to connect with other ath­letes who are going through the same things — balancing school and a varsity sport — and it also gives them a way to motivate and encourage each other,” Bauters said. “One of the nice things about sister teams is really making the connections and feeling sup­ported by the student body for our student athletes.” 
The cross-country team is paired with the swim team, Bauters said. 
“This year we are doing one of our service events with the swim team over fall break, which should be fun,” Bauters said. 
In addition to performing service together, sister teams encourage each other in small ways throughout the year. 
Junior cross-country run­ner Angela Nebesny said these little gestures remind each other of support from other 

Rentals 
continued from page 1 
LeStrange said student gov­ernment would host a lease fair in the LaFortune Ball­room at the beginning of No­vember. 
“We invite landlords and housing agencies to campus so that students can meet the people who have proper­ties for rent,” LeStrange said. “Importantly though, we want them to be informed rent­ers — they should see what is available.” 
athletes during the season. rooming together] has brought 
“Sister teams make goodie us closer,” Gerbeth said. “We bags and signs for each other both understand the pressures wishing the other athletes luck of having to get up early for in their meet or game,” Nebe-those morning practices and sny said. “The program also not being able to ‘go out’ with 
involves  try- our  friends  
ing to attend  s o me t i me s  
a  meet  or  because  of  
game in or- our  com­ 
der  to  cheer  mitments  to  
on  the other  our team.   I  
athletes and  know that I  
show sup­port in per­son.  And we usually have  “[Being on sister teams and rooming together] has brought us closer,”  really appre­ciate having Angela as a r o o m m a t e  
team dinners now and then where we get  Kristyn Gerbeth junior swimmer  because I can talk to her when  

to know the other team on a personal level.” 
Junior swimmer Kristyn Ger­beth said she also enjoys the support of a sister team. 
“There are a number of ben­efits to the sister team pro­gram,” Gerbeth said.  “It helps to have added support from other girls who are part of a sports team and we all ap­preciate the time and effort it takes balancing out school and our sport.  It’s encouraging to see some of our fellow stu­dents and friends there cheer­ing for us at our meets. It helps develop new friendships.” 
Gerbeth and Nebesny are not only members of sister teams, but they are also room­mates. 
“[Being on sister teams and 
Fitzpatrick said the lease fair gives students an oppor­tunity to thoroughly examine the pros and cons of each op­tion. 
“I think it will be really con­structive, especially if you’re looking to get a house since you really need to start that sophomore year,” Fitzpatrick said. “You can see what’s out there, the price range and what’s convenient location-wise.” 
LeStrange said the student government office also has “Good Neighbor Guides” that provide general information on both renting houses and living off campus. 
I get frus­
trated and 
I know she 
understands 
what I’m go­
ing through.” 
Not only do the sister teams encour­age and support one another during practices and competi­tions, Bauters said they spread awareness on campus of the Saint Mary’s athletics. 
“Through the sister teams, people bring friends to games or meets that might not other­wise come out,” Bauters said. “Hopefully, it brings a larger awareness of our programs to the campus. We have some pretty amazing student-ath­letes and this is one way to get more people out to see them in action.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
“Specifically, the ‘Living Off Campus’ section highlights things like landlord-renter relations, renter’s insurance, social gathering information, budgeting and utilities, etc.,” LeStrange said. 
Despite the challenges, Fitz­patrick said off-campus living is an invaluable experience in college. 
“There is a lot of freedom with moving off campus,” Fitz­patrick said. “There is more responsibility, but I think it’s great for students at this age to be able to live off campus.” 

Contact Mel Flanagan at         mflanag3@nd.edu 



Occupy 
continued from page 1 
years has gone to the top one percent. 
“Most people in the streets don’t have the statistics to back up their use of the percentages, but they know the system isn’t working for them,” Sheehan said. 
Sheehan said over 50,000 protestors have filled the streets of New York for this reason. 
The movement protests the influence of businesses and lob­byists on legislation, and its goal is to encourage the increase in taxes on the wealthy, according to the protest’s unofficial web­site, www.occupywallst.org. 
The protestors made their grievances public in a Sept. 29 document titled “Declaration of the Occupation of New York City.” 
“We come to you at a time when corporations, which place profit over people, self-interest over justice, and oppression over equality, run our govern­ments,” the document stat­ed. “We have peaceably as­sembled here, toward the Reserve might be misdirected. 
“It’s important for students to think hard about which con­cerns are being well-founded and which ones are based on conspiracy theories, such as the targeting of the Federal Re­serve,” Wozniak said. 
Cosimano said the group’s claims about the country’s eco­nomic breakdown are not un­founded. 
“It’s reasonable to say that the share of income going to this [top one percent] group has in­creased,” Cosmiano said. “That is part of the problem.” 
However, Sheehan warned against pinning the movement to one specific cause. 
“There is a temptation to fo­cus on one thing — but often­times that’s misleading,” he said. “However, if there’s one event that triggered the attitude for the protests, it’s Arab Spring [the protests in the Middle East taking place since December.]” 
Protests in the headlines, even as far away as the Middle East, inspired angry Americans to take a more visible stand by starting the Occupy movement, 
Sh eehan 
said. 
While 
Wozniak 
said compar­

as is our right, “It’s important for ing the group to let these facts to protestors 
students to think hard 
be known.” in the Arab 
about which concerns are 
Finance pro-Spring is too 
being well-founded and 
fessor Tom Co-strong for 
which ones are based 
simano said the the Occupy 
on conspiracy theories, 
overall decline protestors, in the economy such as the targeting of she hopes created fuel for the Federal Reserve,” something this growing good comes protest senti-Abigail Wozniak of the move­ment. ment. 
assistant economic professor 

“Unemploy­ment is still above nine per­cent,” he said. “But it’s also because it’s been up for so long. There’s an increase in the du­ration of unemployment. We haven’t had enough economic growth to bring it back to nor­mal.” 
Cosimano said the economic sector of the federal government is doing almost everything pos­sible to spark financial growth, but its plans are not working. 
“The Federal Reserve is doing just about all it can,” he said. “In terms of economic stimula­tion, they’ve reached their lim­its. The only other thing they can try is establishing a more coherent policy.” 
Assistant economics pro­fessor Abigail Wozniak, who works with the Federal Reserve in Chicago and walked through protestors in front of the fed­eral building, said the protest “I don’t 
see that this 
group has 
had much of 
an impact yet,” she said. “But this is also a part of the group that elected President Barack Obama. They come out for big changes.” 
Sheehan said the biggest dif­ficulties for the Occupy Wall Street protests would lie in weather and news media. 
“It will become difficult as it gets cold,” he said. “Also, the other question isn’t about the people in the park — that will eventually become old news. The success of the movement will reflect when it’s truly picked up nationwide. Compare them back to the protests of the Vietnam War. The protests only worked once Middle America said, ‘No. This doesn’t work for me.’” 

Contact amanda Gray at       agray@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
CSC 
continued from page 1 
a Holy Cross priest, worked with members of the Maryk­noll order in Latin America. He said the work of Maryknoll ministers reflects the mission of the Church as a whole. 
“Maryknoll has an aware­ness of the Church and the role of the laity,” Pelton said. “As [French theologian] Yves Congar said, ‘It’s not the walls, but the faithful who are the Church.’” 
Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers, a religious order of Catholic missionaries, began over 100 years ago, Pelton said. 
Thesing worked in Tan­zania, Mozambique, Nai­robi and Southern Sudan as a Maryknoll missionary. He said his time in Africa taught him how to serve a commu­nity with both political and religious conflicts. 
“Proclamation is one of the key elements of mission, but with that is the develop­ment of the human person,” Thesing said. 
One religious problem in Africa lies in the lack of an organized church structure to organize and inform the local people, he said. 
“Since 1973, the model for the Church in Africa has been small Christian communi­ties,” Thesing said. “We need to respect their culture and simply offer an opportunity.” 
On a political front, Thesing said the biggest problems are the lack of the rule of law and an excessive concentration of power. 
“Africa faces the challenge of bringing power down to the lower levels,” Thesing said. 
While Thesing witnessed a fair presidential election in Mozambique, he said he thought it was unfair that the president then appointed 
all lower of­ficials. The local people did not have the chance to elect gover­nors, district administra­tors and may­ors in their provinces, he said. 
Southern Sudan also tends to be more divid­ed on ethnic lines than by its provincial 
boundaries, Thesing said. The area contains 42 differ­ent ethnic groups. 
“Many Africans put ethnic group above nation,” Thesing said. 
Fr. Stephen Judd spent his missionary career in Latin America, and his first mis­sionary experience took place in Peru. 
Judd said Maryknoll first entered Latin America in 1942 and operated with traditional notions of creating parishes and building churches. 
However, when these mis­sionaries entered rural ar­eas, Thesing said they first needed to address the re­gion’s poverty. 



Psych 
continued from page 1 
psychology program to a Uni­versity with an eminent, and arguably top-10 program,” he said. “This is, in my opinion, an accomplishment of un­precedented proportions.” 
The program began in 2006, and Monroe estimated that the development of an ac­credited clinical psychology program has taken at least a decade to plan. 
“Accreditation by the APA signifies that the clinical pro­gram at Notre Dame now ad­heres to the standards of the APA for doctoral training of graduate students with re­spect to quality of instruction in the science and practice of clinical [psychology],” Monroe said. 
Monroe said the APA ac­creditation gives Notre Dame graduate students an edge over others in their field. 
“This allows our students to be highly competitive in a major field of psychology and to do research and teaching on topics that are core to the mission of Notre Dame,” he said. 
The requirements for ac­creditation are extensive and include specific stipulations regarding coursework, re­search training and clinical practice, Monroe said. 
“We apply for accreditation with a document that attest to these achievements,” he said. “It represents quite an extensive and rigorous piece of information regarding our program over the past several years.” 
David Smith, former direc­tor of the program, said this recognition is important for Notre Dame because the APA is the only organization au­thorized by the Department of Education to accredit psychol­ogy programs. 
“It provides ongoing evalu­ation and certification of the programs quality,” Smith said. “APA accreditation is the standard by which outside agencies evaluate our gradu­ates.” 
Smith said the program is designed to produce doctoral students in clinical psychol­ogy that will become the next generation of top researchers in the field. 
A variety of research areas are represented in the pro­gram, Smith said. 
“There is a particular strength in mood disorders,” Smith said. “We have people studying sleep, marriage and relationships, health, stress and biology. There are also other traditional clinical psy­chology areas covered like eating and personality disor­ders and child clinical psy­chology.” 
The program has hired four nationally recognized clini­cal psychologists and five as­sistant professors since 2006, Smith said. 
“That’s tremendous growth to go along with the accredi­tation of the program,” Smith said. “I expect it to really flourish in the next few years.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
After building a longstand­ing relationship with the lo­cal communities in Latin America, Judd said Maryk­noll missionaries do help build churches around the region as they move from town to town. 
“Maryknoll was sensing a shift at that time in Latin 
“Proclamation is one of the key elements of mission, but with that is the development of the human person.” 
Fr. Ken Thesing missionary priest 
America from people living in the coun­try to living in cities,” Judd said. “Our mis­sion is now genera­tive.” 
Judd also acknowl ­edged that they have had some trouble with more conserva ­
tive church organizations. 
“We locked horns with Opus Dei and were thrown out of a place in Peru where we had worked for 70 years,” Judd said. 
As these priests man­age conflicts in their work around the globe, Pelton said the Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers are a good example for other missionaries. 
“They are not afraid to say what works and what doesn’t work,” Pelton said. “They are a wonderful example of the Church in mission yesterday, today and tomorrow.” 


Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, October 11, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 



So come the seasons 
For all the warm weather enthusiasts out there, of which I’m sure there are plenty, these past few days of sun and high temperatures have been a bless­ing. Having returned not too long ago from a semester abroad in Australia, I admit I had got­ten used to warm temperatures and even taken sunny weather for granted a time or two. But over the past month or so, as South Bend weather settled into a brisk chill, I began to bitterly accept the inevitable — that fall and winter are on its way, and at some point in the near future, I will most likely have to endure temperatures in the negative. 
No doubt, South Bend weather can have its upsides. When the tempera­tures drop down to freezing in mid to late November, the student population awaits one of their most beloved tradi­tions, the first snowball fight of the year. In line with Notre Dame students’ usual competitive nature, this event is taken seriously. Teams are formed. Sides are taken. One of my favorite Notre Dame memories harkens back to my freshman year during the 2008 North Quad/South Quad snowball fight. Noticing the light snow flurries falling outside our win­dows, my friends and I pulled on our snow boots, scarves, gloves, hats and coats and hiked outside through the freshly fallen snow, leaving footprints in our wake. 
It was like Disneyland for freshman students who had never seen snow before and even for me, who had grown up in North Carolina and only seen half an inch of snow every few years. Who knows who threw the first snow­ball, but before we knew it, a small intimate snowball fight among friends grew into a full-fledged snowball battle with masses of students joining in the fun. We played in the snow like candy-crazed kids until our hands and feet went numb, and afterward escaped the cold back in our dorm rooms with hot chocolate, our boots, coats and scarves strewn about the hallway. That same weekend during the final home football game against Syracuse, students reck­lessly threw snow right and left, leading Notre Dame to enforce a strict “no snowball fights in the stands” policy. 
Other Notre Dame winter traditions include stealing food trays from the din­ing halls and using them as toboggans. And a brave, if senseless, few venture out to the lake when it’s frozen and test the ice by walking across it. Notre Dame students definitely know how to make the most out of the cold weather. 
I certainly prefer the warmth to South Bend’s usual bitter cold. By February each year, the snow’s appeal has usu­ally worn off and it merely becomes an unwanted obstacle on the way to class. Nonetheless, cold weather is a large part of the Notre Dame school year and it does have its upsides from time to time. Six months out of the year, it gives students an excuse to stay inside and be the diligent hard-working students that we are. So I will enjoy the sunny weath­er while it’s still here and embrace the snow when it’s time to fall and simply take the seasons as they come. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at      ackilpatr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Midterms and mark-to-market 
Midterms. That week directly pre­ceding fall break when everyone has 12 exams, four papers, two presenta­tions and a problem set due. No one likes midterms. 
You know what else no one likes? Accounting. All of you accounting majors out there can jabber all you want about job security and how much you like financial statements, but eventually the truth will come out. Accounting is like your Great Aunt Mildred: boring, fussy and smells a little like a dusty basement. 
Okay so the last part might not actually be true, but at least we can establish that no one really likes ac­counting. Accounting and midterms are things we endure because some­one, whether it’s our professor or the Securities and Exchange Commission, says we have to. 
General animosity is not the only way midterms are a lot like account­ing. Specifically, midterms are a lot like mark-to-market accounting. Mark-to-market is the practice of ac­counting for assets and liabilities at current market prices or some other objective “fair” value. 
Under mark-to-market, if you bought a futon three years ago, 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

you would value that futon at what­ever price you could sell it for today. Which, given the ways college stu­dents typically abuse futons would likely be much lower than the price you originally paid. 
This seems reasonably intuitive. The alternative is historical cost ac­counting, which values assets and liabilities based on past transaction prices. Using historical cost, you would value your futon at the price you paid three years ago. 
So how is mark-to-market a lot like midterms? Midterms are when we mark our semesters to market. Like it or not, they force us to revalue our expectations of our grades and base them on how much we’ve actually learned over the past eight weeks rather than our hopeful assump­tions that we have picked something up from sitting in class and flipping through the book. 
Since we don’t like midterms, should we also not like mark-to-mar­ket? It seems so straightforward and fair, but at the same time it’s kind of unnerving. 
What if the market isn’t where we want it to be? What if your Theology TA is an unreasonably difficult paper grader or if your math teacher doesn’t set a curve until the end of the semes­ter? What if you aren’t feeling well during the test, or if there’s another weather-related emergency? When conditions are such that market prices (your grades) aren’t good estimates of actual value, marking-to-market seems a whole lot less fair. 
Mark-to-market was a controver­sial topic during the recent financial crisis. When markets were going up, valuing assets at market prices wasn’t a problem. But, when the bubble burst and stock and bond markets plunged worldwide, the market prices of ev­erything fell too, and some markets disappeared completely without will­ing buyers or sellers. Suddenly, the as­sets firms held were worth a lot less. Banks were forced to sell their assets at the low prices simply because they needed cash to continue operating, which only exacerbated the problem. Several rounds of failures, mergers and bailouts later, people wondered if mark-to-market rules were partially to blame for the severity of the crisis. 
While mark-to-market might not be an appropriate measure of value in periods of crisis or high volatility, it is hard to see how a different method would be better. As much as we may not like the roller coaster reality mark-to-market forces us to face, it is, in fact, reality, and it would be hard to argue that banks and other inves­tors should operate outside of reality. Mark-to-market is a useful bench­mark because sooner or later we’re going to have to take that final exam. 
See, midterms aren’t so bad after all. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“As the poet said, ‘Only God can make a tree’ — probably because it’s so hard to figure out how to get the bark on.” 
Woody Allen 
U.S.director and actor 



WEEKLY POLL 

Over Fall Break I plan on ... 
Going to Appalachia Going home Partying with state school friends Going to Vegas, baby! 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



Fare thee well, PC 
On June 6, Steve Jobs made his last public appearance as Apple Computer’s CEO to demonstrate new features that would empower and “redefine” iOS devices (iPhone, iPod touch and iPad). Scott Forstall, se­nior Vice President Blake Graham of iOS, and Jobs took the congre-Erudite gated nerd masses at Techno-Lust Apple’s World Wide Developer’s Conference in San Fran­cisco on a tour of an operating system more influential than the hardware it sits on. The Apple team excited the at­tendees with astronomical projections, wowed them with the promise of new technology, stole their hearts with long awaited features, then told them the software would be available months af­ter the press release. After four months of development and fine-tuning, iOS 5 will be available for public release Tuesday, Oct. 12. 
Apple touts the statistic of “over 200 new features” in their upcoming mobile operating system, though a significantly smaller number will be seen and used regularly. Most of the new features operate under the skin of the operating system, making it more stable, faster, usable and connected. The more visually active features are less impressive on their own, but the implications of the operating system, when all features are working in sym­phony, are grand. 
When Apple announced the iPad 2 this past March, Steve Jobs proclaimed that we are in a “post-PC” world. The paradigm of desktop computing with full sized keyboards, clunky mice and non-portable towers is over. The same paradigm that Jobs built out of his garage and solidified with the release of the Macintosh in 1984 was ending. 
To clear room for new creation, Steve Jobs would be leading Apple in desktop computing’s destruction. 
Well, we’ve been living in the “post-PC” world for some time now. Our pri­mary computing power has moved from our desks to our pockets. In the age of mobile, tablet and ultra-portable tech­nology, we interact with graceful natu­ral gestures on smooth panes of glass. No stylus, keyboard or mouse is wanted here. The smartphones that preceded the iPhone failed because they at­tempted to bring a desktop experience to the mobile environment. Apple led the way by deciding that users needed a different way to interact with mobile devices. iOS 5 is the final nail in the PC paradigm’s coffin. Now it’s just a matter of cleaning up the remnants of the PC dynasty. What’s so indicative of the permanence of this new “post-PC” paradigm is not that iOS app develop­ment represents a three billion dollar market, or that Apple’s leadership in the field has made it the most valuable company in the world. 
The fuel making all this possible is the fact that these emerging and rap­idly developing technologies genuinely do make people’s lives more efficient, informed and interconnected. Hav­ing used iOS 5 in its various developer iterations for the past four months on both the iPad and iPhone platform, I can personally vouch for its ability to fuse technical efficiency and human delicacy into a life augmenting product. 
From the “over 200” features in­cluded in iOS 5, there are five that have had the biggest impact upon my normal use: Notification Center, iMessage, WiFi Syncing, PC-Free configuration and improved Camera options. It is entirely acceptable for Android users and Jail-breakers (people who hack iOS to give it additional, non-endorsed features) to question the real novelty of the addi­tions. Well, the computer mouse was made in 1952 as part of the Canadian military’s DATAR project, but it wasn’t made useful until 1984 with the release of the original Macintosh. Apple is notorious for taking the technology of geekdom and improving upon it until everyone can use it intuitively. 

Notification Center acts as a non-in­trusive hub for your digital life. When text messages, Facebook notifications, emails, Twitter replies, etc. are pushed to the device, a small banner appears with a ticker animation on the top of the screen allowing action to occur without interruption. To access all noti­fications, calendar events, reminders, weather widget, etc. the user performs a natural finger swipe down from the top of the screen. iMessages is a com­municative messaging platform inte­grated directly with the SMS (texting) application. Whenever a user sends a message to someone also on iOS 5, an iMessage will supplant an outgoing SMS. 
Without people knowing it, they will be sending fewer text messages, taking the power out of the wireless carrier’s hands with their exorbitant SMS pric­ing and into the user’s hands. iMes­sages can contain text, images, video, contacts and geo- locations and are synchronous across all iOS 5 devices 
— what you see on your iPhone is what you’ll see on your iPad or iPod Touch. PC-free configuration is hallmark of our “post-PC” world. Your “iDevice” no longer needs to connect with a comput­er to activate, initialize and configure. It is a self-contained unit beholden to no hub. 
To take it a step further, WiFi syn­chronization transfers iTunes data to your device cable free. So long as your computer and Apple product are on the same WiFi network, all songs, mov­ies, photos, calendars, contacts and mail will sync when you plug it in at night. As the photo sensors in smart­phones have improved they have taken the place of standard point and shoot cameras. With the new photo functions in iOS 5, it takes 1.5 seconds from wak­ing the iPhone to taking a picture. No more fumbling with settings and apps as the ideal photo moment passes by. Improved image processing allows for better autofocus, exposure and on-board image editing (color correction, red-eye, cropping). The entire photo­graphic workflow occurs on the device. 
No feature on its own adequately warrants an update to get overly ex­cited about. Yet, the collective effect of the newest free upgrade is refined and powerful. We are in a “post-PC” world and the independence granted to devices by iOS 5 is an indicative of such. iOS 5 creates space between the mobile device and the computer and carrier while bringing it closer to the user. There is no doubt that Windows Phone and Android are scrambling to compete with the fluid and cohesive presentation of features in iOS 5. The tech giants at Apple, Microsoft and Google are no longer fighting for the fastest specs — the battle is no longer Mac vs. PC. The only important distinc­tion is whether a technology takes a step into the future or holds to a relic of the obsolete past. iOS 5 takes a leap. Fare thee well, PC. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Game weekend anthems 
Dear Mr. Labate, 
In response to your Letter to the Editor dated Oct. 9 (“God­Quad’s playlist”) I would like to express my horror at your request to censor a form of free expression. First of all (and I feel like this argument is rather clichéd but worth pointing out), we Otters have always felt a strong feeling of individual­ism and will always reserve our first amendment rights of free speech and expression. Secondly, it is unfair to punish us or even reprimand us for disregarding our proximity to the Ba­silica. I am in my fourth year in Sorin, and I can tell you hon­estly that we have always paid proper respects to the events going on at the Basilica by cancelling social gatherings during funerals, weddings and masses. Thirdly, it is a football week­end and you will hear classic “pump-up” songs all over cam­pus. It is completely unfair for you to ask us to turn our music down because of our adjacency to the Basilica, especially when housing assignments are done randomly. 
DMX’s “Party Up (Up in Here)” is an ideal anthem for game weekend Fridays because it expresses two very crucial themes of football. First of all, the focus of the verses is centered around the conquering of rivals. Secondly, the refrain states that, “y’all gon’ make me lose my mind … go all out … act a fool … [and] lose my cool, up in here.” This is a clear reference to how the audience is supposed to react in the stands on Sat­urday afternoons. Too many times, Notre Dame Stadium has been criticized as being on the quieter side. We Otters were merely trying to galvanize not only the student body, but also the entire 80,000-plus fans on campus to loudly support our Irish by disregarding their inhibitions and act like fools while cheering our players onwards to victory. 
Go Irish. Beat SC. 
Drew Davis 
senior Sorin College Oct. 10 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, October 11, 2011 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
Everyone needs a good fairy tale, especially during the stressful, nowhere-near­a-fairy-tale week before fall break. So take a study siesta, log onto Netflix and replace sweatpants and books with ball gowns and glittery shoes. 
Once the elderly Grande Dame of France calls the Brothers Grimm into her pal­ace to tell them the “real” story of Cinderella, the shot centers around the light of a television for a little 21st cen­tury story time. “Now then,” she says. “What is that phrase you use? Oh yes, ‘Once upon a time...’” 
Set in renaissance-era France, all of the pesky su­pernatural Fairy Godmother and pumpkin carriage stuff is taken out, which is a fan­tastic change for old Cindy. In true 90s girl power form, Drew Barrymore is a progres­sive and capable Cinderella, named Danielle de Barbarac. All the elements are present: her father dies at a young age, leaving her with both a love for books (girl power) and an unloving stepmother with two daughters. 
Anjelica Huston is the per­fect evil stepmother — cold, detached, not completely evil, but ultimately irredeemable 
— so you don’t feel bad for her when she inevitably falls. 
The semi-ridiculous aspects of the movie come in when you realize that even though the movie is set in France, the en­tire cast has British accents. Even Barrymore, who puts a lot of spunk into it, just can’t pull it off. 
Also, Prince Charming, or Henry, the Crowned Prince of France, is introduced as he is running away from home, despite the fact that he looks about 30-years-old in this movie. While he is be­ing chased by castle guards, he stops to help an older man who is being robbed, and re­trieves his “most prized pos­session” from them, which turns out the be the Mona Lisa. (Because muggers often take rolled up pieces of parch­ment instead of money.) 

But this all makes sense when you find out that the old man is Leonardo da Vinci. Yep, that da Vinci is a wonder. Not only did he give the world the Mona Lisa and countless inventions, but he also played matchmaker for Cindrella and Prince Charming. 
Henry and Danielle meet while she is pretending to be a noblewoman in order to save their household servant from being sold into slavery. Classic hijinks ensue. He thinks she’s a rich noblewoman, she isn’t, they get robbed by suspicious­ly Robin Hood-like gypsies whom they soon make friends with and share a romantic evening chewing on rabbit legs around the bonfire, the usual. 
In true good/bad movie fashion, none of that ridicu­lous stuff matters because of some mysterious element that keeps you glued to the televi­sion and happily crying onto your untouched homework once the credits roll. 
Basically, this movie is a way to de-stress, relax and wish that you were a well-read house servant who one day does a good deed and lands the prince of France out of it. 
It could totally happen. 

Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 11, 2011 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 


A farewell to Avery 
The NHL is back on the ice after this weekend’s opening slate of games, and that brings with it all the excitement of the early season, as teams try to start out hot, shuffle their lines and final­ize which players from train­ing camp will grind out a spot on the team. 
In that period of roster moves last week, the New York Rangers waived forward Sean Avery in a move that surprised pretty much no one in the hockey com­munity. Avery was a constant nuisance in the locker room, known better for quotes after the game than his play during it. He was ineffective, overpaid and was even a healthy scratch from the lineup on a number of occasions towards the end of last season. 
After signing marquee free agent Brad Richards over the summer, waiving Avery took care of an unneeded distraction for a team that could very well contend for a Cup. Releasing Avery was the right move, for all the right reasons. 
And as a Rangers fan, it broke my heart. 
Avery has never held the good-guy, family-friendly, Jeter­esque image that normally en­dears an athlete to fans. He had two separate stints with the Rangers, both of which started because of other teams getting rid of him after suspensions. The first came from a locker room screaming match with an announcer nearly twice his age, and the second was from accusing an opposing player of dating his “sloppy seconds” on TV. Combine that was his noto­riety for cheap shots on the ice and his outspoken passion for fashion (he interned at Vogue magazine in the offseason), and Avery becomes a case study in how not to win over hockey fans. 
The off-ice shenanigans made most fans dislike Avery, but his play could be even worse. He held possession far too long, and never seemed to take care of the puck. He seemed apathet­ic and downright lazy, and was sometimes booed by the fans. 
Every once in a while, though, Avery would have a game that made it all worth it. When he decided to turn it on, the dial would go straight to 12, and no one could do anything about it. With one game, he could win over the fans who otherwise had no inclination to cheer his name. 

My Avery game was a ho-hum, mid-season showdown on Jan. 6, 2010 against his former employer — the Dal­las Stars. In a rare move, he downplayed the chance at revenge in the media, and instead saved it for the ice. 
With a fire in his belly and rage in his heart, Avery took off like a malevolent pinball from the first drop of the puck. Avery found his team­mates in open spaces, was a wizard with the puck, and hit somebody after every single whistle, including goals. He racked up penalties for misconduct and unnecessary roughness, and had every single Stars player gunning for his head. And after being kept off the score sheet in his previous 19 games, Avery’s statline ended like this: 
1 G, 3 A, 4 Pts, 12 Penalty Minutes. Rangers 5, Stars 2. 
The faithful at Madison Square Garden chanted down “AVERY, AVERY!” from the blue seats, and for one magi­cal anomaly of a night, all was forgiven. 
Yes, the move to release him was the right one. Avery would have been only a hin­drance to an otherwise young, driven and talented team. 
He could have gone on to torment another team, but thanks to a recent incident involving a giant house party and assaulting a police officer, not a single team picked Avery up off waivers, reverting him to the Rangers’ minor league affiliate, where he can be called up at any time. 
Come March, the Rangers could be well on their way to a Stanley Cup run, with a big divisional lead and great team chemistry. But maybe, just maybe, they’ll be flat, and tired and banged up, with a big matchup ahead of them. They’ll need someone who can get in the face of his teammates and get inside the heads of every one of his op­ponents. They’ll need some­one who can take the game over, turn it on its head, and win it singlehandedly. They’ll need a player who can win over fans with just one great performance that keeps them coming back. 
They’ll need Sean Avery. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu                     
    The views  represented in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 

CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s Volleyball grounds Air Force 
Men’s, women’s rugby earn victories; men’s rowing competes 
Special to The Observer 

The Irish won in a best­of-five match against Air Force on Friday at Rolf’s Sports Recreation Center. 
Notre Dame took a one-set lead after a solid perfor­mance in its first set of the year, winning 25-20.  Air Force, led by a high-flying right side, came back to take the second set 25-22. 
In the pivotal third set, both teams gave it all they could and went into ex­tra points. Senior captain Joshua Rehberg served the final point and the Irish ended up winning, 32-30. The Irish went on to win the last set, 25-19, and take the match. Key players for the Irish were the two All-
American  hitters,  senior  
Kevin  Padden  and  junior  
Rob  Bauer.  Padden  made  

the switch back to outside hitter this year after play­ing right side all last year. He is returning to his true form with the dominant hit­ting performance he showed against the Falcons. 
The Irish were national runner-up last year, and finished the season ranked second.  The club is intent on taking the final step this year to the national champi­onship. 
Men’s Rugby 

The stage was set. In only their third match-up between two historic pro­grams, the Irish were ready to face Air Force in the first night game in the history of the program. 
With the stands filled with eager fans, the Irish wasted no time at the start of the match and took an early lead. However, Notre Dame was unable to maintain it for the win and Air Force came away with a 19-17 victory. 
Helped by a few line breaks at the start of the match, the Irish found themselves within the Falcons 10-meter line. The ball got to flyhalf Byron Henry, who broke a tackle and scored under the posts. Henry then converted the score, and the Irish were up 7–0. 
The two teams battled for position, and the Irish were banging on the Falcons’ door, however a costly turn­over prevented them from scoring. Luckily, the Irish won the opposition’s scrum, and the ball was kicked out to outside center Ryan Mitchell who reversed field and dove into the try zone. A missed conversion left the Irish with a 12-7 lead at halftime. 
The score was 17-7 in Notre Dame’s favor, however, the Falcons did not give up. They continued to put together at­tacks, and managed to drive into the Irish 10-meter line. There they powered their way over the line to put them within one score. They con­verted that try to bring the score to 17–14. 
As the two teams jockeyed for position in the closing moments of the game, Air Force continued to pressure the Irish. Deep in their own territory, the Irish made goal line stand after goal line stand and held off the Falcons. But as time ticked away and play continued, a Falcon forward picked the loose ball off a ruck and managed to dive into the corner of the try zone. 
Air Force won the match, 19-17. 
Women’s Rugby
 Notre Dame and Indiana went head-to-head Sunday in the women’s second league game of the season and the Irish dominated their oppo­nent on their home field for a 25-10 win. 
The Hoosiers received the ball to start, but the Irish launched forward and were able to gain possession on the ball as the Hoosiers struggled to field it.  After a few phases, the Irish were successfully able to create an imbalance in the Hoosier defense. 
The ball was passed out to outside center Ashley Okon­ta, who ran the ball in for a try. Sophomore Amelia Vojt made the conversion kick, putting the Irish at an early 7-0 lead. 
The Irish continued to use their backline to challenge Indiana’s defense, leading to another try by fullback Natalie Branch. Vojt again kicked to convert the try but missed, bringing the half­time score to 18-0. 
In the second half, the Hoo­siers were more successful. The team took advantage of offensive overloads created to get past Irish defense, and scored twice. The Irish also scored again in the second half with a dive into the try zone by flyhalf Kayla Bishop. Indiana was unsuccessful in converting their tries, while Vojt made the conversion kick for the Irish, bringing the final score to 25-10. 
The Irish are ready to take their momentum with them as they travel to Columbus, Ohio to challenge Ohio State Sunday. 
Men’s Rowing 
On Sunday morning, Notre Dame took to the waters of the Rock River in Rockford, Ill. for the Head of the Rock Regatta and demonstrated its depth against other top Midwest teams. 
To kick off the morn­ing, the Irish sent out a pair, Garrett Campbell and Tim Parks, who rowed to a fourth-place finish in the Open 2-event, finishing the 5K race in 18 minutes and 11 seconds. Irish coach Kurt Butler then rowed his single to a fifth place finish in the Master’s Single event. 
The Irish eights took sec­ond, eighth, eleventh and twelfth out of 21 boats in the Novice 8+ event, with only Michigan finishing ahead of the top novice boat. Each of the other novice boats outclassed their respective competition. 
Then came the Notre Dame Collegiate Fours. The Irish took fourth, seventh and 13th out of 25 boats in this event, again demonstrat­ing a tremendous level of depth. Soon after the light­weight four came three Irish doubles, which took second, sixth, and seventh in their event, the Open 2x. 
The afternoon brought the Notre Dame Varsity Eights to the water.  The Irish Var­sity Eight finished in second place in the Collegiate 8+ event, with the Second Var­sity Eight finishing in eighth and the Third Varsity Eight finishing in ninth.  The sec­ond place finish represents the top finish for the Irish at the Head of the Rock Re­gatta, matching last year’s Varsity Eight. 
Two novice eights were sent out for their second race of the day in the Collegiate 8+ event, rowing to 14th and 22nd place finishes. 
The Irish now will return to training, working on their top-end speed for two weeks in preparation for the Head of the Charles Regatta in Boston on Oct. 22-23. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

“Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a “Toto, I’ve got a feeling we’re not 
FOR RENT TICKETS NOTICES PERSONAL 

damn.” - Gone with the Wind in Kansas anymore.” - The Wizard of Oz 
Cheap 2 room studio USC GAs desperately needed. Transportation to airport UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? “I’m going to make him an offer he “All right, Mr. DeMille, I’m ready for 
 $440 Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame can’t refuse.” - The Godfather my close-up.” - Sunset Boulevard Email DaveMichiganTEKK@gmail. has many resources in place to com -  incl util assist you. If you or someone you You see that guy? That was me 
love needs confidential support “You don’t understand! I coulda not so long ago. What kind of guy Large 4BR Top $$ $7 per person in groups. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue had class. I coulda been a without a drug or alcohol problem  $840. 10 mo lease, Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at contender. I could’ve been looks this way? Only a writer. 3 mi S of SMC. 1-2685. For more information, somebody, instead of a bum, visit ND’s website at: http:// which is what I am.” - On the I can endure more pain than call Dave 574-286-1384 574-277-1659 Mark 574-360-6480 pregnancysupport@nd.edu Waterfront anyone you’ve ever met. 
Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
Rhythm 
continued from page 13 
was a victory for us,” senior captain Maria Lynch said. “It is hard to get people to come out before midterms. However, girls stepped up and filled in to play new positions they have not been accustomed to.” 
Lynch also hopes to have the Babes work on defense and have a more fluid offense before the next game. 
“The next game is in three weeks,” Lynch said. “We have to keep working hard. The big fac­tor is to not get stuck, stay loose and know our place.” 
Pasquerilla West will take on Farley and Breen-Phillips will face Badin on Oct. 30. 
Contact Megan Roder at mroder01@saintmarys.edu 
Cavanaugh 6, Farley 0 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
In a battle of two undefeated teams, Cavanaugh emerged vic­torious, defeating Farley 6-0 in a hard-fought defensive contest Sunday. 
Cavanaugh’s defense, a unit that has posted four shutouts in five games, recorded three key interceptions. Junior cor­nerback Rosemary Kelly set the tone early for the Chaos (5-0), intercepting a pass deep in Far­ley territory on the second play of the game. 
Three plays later, senior quarterback Rebecca Cink found senior receiver Megan Robertson on a 7-yard touch­down pass to put the Chaos on the board. 
However, Cavanaugh’s lead was in doubt until the last play of the game, when Chaos ju­nior cornerback Michelle Young halted a Farley comeback at­tempt by intercepting Farley se­nior quarterback Megan Bast­edo’s pass. 
“I knew that the ball was coming my way, as Farley had been throwing to that one re­ceiver all night, and I just let my adrenaline carry me,” Young said. “We have a really ath­letic defense, and we had really worked hard to prepare for this game.” 
Farley (4-1) was anchored by a tenacious red zone defense, as the Finest stopped Cavanaugh in the red zone on three con­secutive possessions in the sec­ond half. Despite the defensive efforts, Farley’s offense was se­verely limited, failing to reach the red zone in the game. 
“We saw what their defense was giving us, but we still couldn’t execute today,” Bast­edo said. “Our defense did a great job of holding them, but we needed to score some points.” 
Cavanaugh hopes to remain undefeated when it plays How­ard on Oct.30, while Farley looks to improve its playoff ranking when it faces Pasque­rilla West the same day. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
Welsh Family 27, Walsh 6 
By ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writer 
Welsh Family defeated Walsh on Sunday in a 27-6 victory that pushes the Whirlwind closer to a playoff berth. 
“Our team played with a lot of spirit today,” Welsh Fam­ily coach Joe Sorice said. “The girls wanted it up-tempo. They wanted to blitz and there was no holding them back.” 
Both teams came ready to play and made adjustments as necessary throughout the game. 
Defense was a large factor in the outcome of this matchup but in the end, the Whirlwind (3-2) simply couldn’t be defeated. 
“We brought great pressure and I think that the defense made some great adjustments,” Sorice said. “We only had two practices this week but we wasted no time. We went back to our defense from two years ago and I’m glad it worked.” 
After a tough season, Walsh (0-4-1) is looking to capture a win in the last game of the sea­son. 
“We are going to come out re­ally hard for the Chicks,” junior captain Lindy Navarre said. “We have had a tough season but have also had so much fun as a team. Our team has grown a lot. We are ready for a victory against Lewis to end our sea­son.” 
Walsh will face Lewis while Welsh Family will take on Lyons on Oct. 30. 
Contact ally Darragh at adarra01@saintmarys.edu 
Howard 6, Pangborn 0 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
In what looked to be a stale­mate, this intense matchup came down to wire as Howard scored with 30 seconds left to give the Ducks a 6-0 win over Pangborn. 
The game-winning score for the Ducks (2-3) came on a 12­yard pass from junior quarter­back Katharine Mack to sopho­more center Amelia Vojt. 
“It was a great feeling to get that touchdown,” Vojt said. “It’s a surprise play for the center to get the ball.” 
The play was sprung by a roughing the passer penalty on 4th down at Pangborn’s 22 yard line. 
“That was extremely frustrat­ing. It didn’t look like she was hit,” senior captain Liz Pawlak said. “A call like that at the end of the game to give them the first down leaves a bad taste in the mouth.” 
Both defenses were solid throughout the game, as Pan­gborn (2-4) racked up three interceptions and three sacks while Howard had five intercep­tions and one sack. 
“The defense played really well again,” Pawlak said. “We just couldn’t score.” 
But Howard’s offense took ad­vantage of the one opportunity it got. The Ducks’ usual starting quarterback, freshman Lauren Gabel, was unable to make the game but Mack came through when she was most needed. 
“Katherine played really tough and was there for the team when we had to have a big play,” senior captain Jenny Gar­ner said. 
The Ducks will face Cavana­ugh on Oct. 30 while Pangborn has no remaining regular sea­son games left. 
Contact Isaac lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


Margeaux Prinster evades a tackler in Walsh’s 12-12 tie with Pasquerilla East in week two. Walsh fell to Welsh Family 27-6 on Sunday. 

NFL 

Browns’ DE breaks arm 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio — On the first day back from their bye week, the Cleveland Browns suffered an injury that could have been so much worse. 
Defensive end Marcus Benard broke his arm in a motorcycle accident Monday shortly after the team’s practice ended. 
Coach Pat Shurmur said Be­nard will be transferred to Cleveland Clinic to undergo more tests and evaluation. The 26-year-old Benard crashed his motorcycle on Interstate-71 about 90 minutes after the Browns wrapped up their first practice in preparation for Sun­day’s game in Oakland. 
Benard, a backup who has played in all four games this season, will likely miss signifi­cant time and may have to go on injured reserve. But it appears he was lucky to avoid a more se­rious injury. 
Police are still investigat­ing Benard’s crash. It’s not yet known if any other vehicles were involved in the accident. 
As they returned from a week of rest and review, the Browns (2-2) practiced without two starters: top cornerback Joe Haden and Pro Bowl center Alex Mack. 
Haden, who has played at a Pro Bowl level through four games, sprained his left knee last week against Tennessee. Shurmur said the team decided to have Haden stay inside to rehab his injury. Mack was on the field with his teammates but only as a spectator after undergoing an appendectomy last week. 
Losing Haden or Mack for any period of time would be a major blow to the Browns. They are two of Cleveland’s best and most indispensable players. 
Backup Steve Vallos filled in for Mack with Cleveland’s first-team offense. Nickel back Dimi­tri Patterson was in Haden’s corner spot opposite Sheldon Brown. 
Benard was initially taken to MetroHealth Medical Center fol­lowing his crash. He was able to speak on the phone with trainer Joe Sheehan, who joined him at the hospital. 
Benard overcame long odds to make it to the NFL. He was signed by the Browns as an un­drafted free agent in 2009. He spent the first nine weeks of the season on the practice squad before being signed to the active roster. In a December game, he sacked Ben Roethlisberger twice as Cleveland upset Pittsburgh. 
Last year, Benard led the Browns with 7½ sacks. In No­vember, he was briefly hospital­ized after fainting in the locker room before a practice. Benard underwent tests, which ruled out any heart problems or other major medical conditions. He later said the episode was re­lated to stress caused by the im­pending birth of his son. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, October 11, 2011 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Knott uses fourth-quarter heroics to beat Dawgs 3-0 
Carroll fights back to tie Sorin; Gentlemen shut out Zahm; Dillon punishes Keough; Stanford edges out O’Neill 
BY NICK BOYLE Carroll 14, Sorin 14 “We have our eyes on the ul-Siegfried 28, Morrissey 6 firing on all cylinders.” Sports Writer timate prize — getting to [Notre Keough (0-3) struggled to find By MIKE MONACO Dame Stadium],” Marrero said. By ANDREW CARDOZA its offensive rhythm in the first 
Knott took a huge step to-Sports Writer Carroll’s regular season is Sports Writer half, failing to reach the red ward securing a playoff spot complete, while Sorin plays St. zone until the third quarter.  The Sunday as the Juggerknotts After falling behind 14-0 in Edward’s on Oct. 30. Siegfried running backs Kangaroo offense threatened to edged out a hard-fought 3-0 the first half, Carroll rebounded junior David Whitmore and score, but could not convert. win over Alumni. in the second half to tie Sorin 14-Contact Mike Monaco at senior Michael Isaacs looked “[Sophomore quarterback] 
The game ended dramati-14 in a matchup of likely playoff jmonaco@nd.edu nearly unstoppable in a 28-6 Seamus Donegan stepped up in cally, as Knott sophomore teams. rout over Morrissey. the pocket late,” junior captain cornerback Joe McGillicuddy The Otters (2-0-1) got the scor-Whitmore and Isaacs com-Robert Toole said, crediting his intercepted Alumni freshman ing started in the first quarter St. Edwards 10, Zahm 0 bined for 164 rushing yards teammate for his efforts. quarterback Tyler Barron in with a four-yard touchdown and two touchdowns, account-The Kangaroo defense had its the end zone on the final play run by senior running back By SCOTT FRANO ing for nearly two-thirds of strong moments, forcing a Dil­of the game to seal the win for Matt Pepe. Sorin went 66 yards Sports Writer the Ramblers’ (3-0) offense. lon fumble on the first play of the Juggerknotts (2-1). in 11 plays on its next drive, Whitmore and Isaacs know the second half and allowing 
“That interception was just which culminated with a 13-St. Edward’s defeated Zahm that their offensive line played only one score in the second half. Joe being Joe,” Knott senior yard touchdown run from junior 10-0 in a rather lighthearted af-a major role in their success. However, the Dillon offense over-captain and running back Dan quarterback Ted Spinelli. The fair Sunday afternoon. “Our offensive line played whelmed Keough for the majority Shaffer said. “He just played Otters did much of their damage The first half was a mostly unbelievable,” Whitmore said. of the game, amassing 322 total football, was in a good posi-on the ground, running the ball defensive battle until Gentle-“When you have wide open yards. tion, made a great play on the on 15 of 17 plays in the first half. man sophomore quarterback holes with a combination of “After fall break, we want to ball and won us the game.” “In the first half we really Paul Martin Rodriguez led a late running hard, it’s going to win just one, and we’re confident 
The majority of the game commanded our offense,” Pepe drive to set up a 31-yard field lead to success.” that we can beat O’Neill,” Toole was played between the 30-said. “For the most part, we ran goal, giving St. Edward’s (2-1) a Isaacs credits the Ramblers’ said. yard lines, as both teams fea-the ball well. We put in a couple 3-0 lead. Junior receiver Connor success over The Manor (0-3) Dillon’s regular season is over tured hard-nosed running new packages [before the game] Ryan was instrumental on the to their defense and key ad-and they wait for a potential play-offenses coupled with strong and we had some success run-drive, making two key catches to justments. off appearance.  Keough will play defenses. ning counters.” get in field goal range. “Our defense played well,” O’Neill on Oct. 30. 
In a back-and-forth first Carroll (2-1-1) struggled of-A 3-yard touchdown pass from Isaacs said. “They shut the half, neither team looked likely fensively in the first half and had Rodriguez to senior receiver door on Morrissey’s passing of-Contact James Southard to score until Knott turned to two drives end with turnovers in Joey Ricioli made the final score fense and made the key adjust-jsouthar@nd.edu a two-quarterback system on Sorin territory. The second half 10-0 in favor of St. Edward’s. Ro-ments in the second half which its final drive of the half.  The was a different story, as the Ver-driguez was also effective rush-allowed us to be a force.” Juggerknotts used a combina-min scored on their first offen-ing the ball, especially on a play The Ramblers defense gave Stanford 8, O’Neill 6 tion of junior Jake Coleman sive play when senior running he referred to as “beaching the up only 191 total yards of of-and freshman David Taiclet at back Nick Tammerine rushed 50 whale.” fense and also caused two By ERNST CLEOFE quarterback on a successful yards for a touchdown. “It’s basically a quarterback turnovers, one of which was Sports Writer two-minute drive that culmi-Carroll then came up with sneak,” Rodriguez said. “It’s an interception returned for a nated with a 21-yard field goal an interception to get the ball called ‘beaching the whale’ be-touchdown. Stanford picked up a boost to as the half expired. back. After driving down to the cause I think I’m bigger than Meanwhile Morrissey, which its playoff hopes with an 8-6 vic-
After the Knott score, Alum-4-yard line, the Vermin faced most of the offensive linemen on has relied heavily on its pass-tory in a grueling game against ni (2-2) came back to dominate 4th-and-goal. Tammerine took our team.” ing offense this season, strug-O’Neill. the ball in the second half, a halfback toss to the left side, Zahm (0-3) tried to run the gled to find a way to stop the Despite a defensive battle, only allowing the Juggerknotts where he threw to wide-open ball all game but failed to get relentless Siegfried defense. both teams had bright spots on 12 yards of total offense while sophomore receiver Bobby Dor-anything going. The Zahmbies Morrissey had many bright offense. Stanford quarterback maintaining possession for the man in the back of the end zone switched to a “Wildcat” offense spots, though. The Manor ac-Charlie Fiessinger showed flash-entire fourth quarter. Led by to tie the game. on their last possession, but still counted for their first offen-es passing downfield, while the the power running of senior “That touchdown was a great had no luck. Senior linebacker sive points of the year on a 37-O’Neill running game was suc­running back Dan Dansdill, play call,” junior captain Keith Greg Bennett, better known as yard touchdown reception by cessful. the Dawgs drove the length of Marrero said. “We knew that the “Magician,” revealed the mu-sophomore running back Nick “Our running back, [sopho­the field to the Knott 7-yard they knew our run was working tinous reason for the switch. Conrad. more] Jon Savakus, really did line, only to be thwarted by and they had been defending our “What we call that is a ‘Mutiny Morrissey thinks it will well today,” O’Neill junior captain McGillicuddy’s last second in-passes well, so we got them with on the Zahm,’” Bennett said. “A bring a lot to the table next Alex Brolick said. “And our offen­terception. [the halfback pass].” ‘Mutiny on the Zahm’ implies a week. sive line gave him a lot of help.” 
“This was a tough one to Both defenses stepped up coup d’etat against Colin Casey, “We will play for pride next O’Neill (0-3) pushed ahead in lose,” Alumni sophomore run-down the stretch and the game senior captain and running week against a tough Knott the first half with senior quar­ning back Kevin Rolfs said. ended in a tie. back. We had to put in the spark-team,” junior captain Alex Ol-terback Mike Wilbur connecting “We played well. Sometimes Carroll and Sorin will both plug, and that is Greg Bennett.” oriz said. with senior receiver JP McCabe things just don’t go your way.” likely make the playoffs, but they Zahm will try and get a win Siegfried will look to go un-to put the Mob ahead 6-0. 
Alumni’s regular season is have bigger goals than just a in its last game Oct. 30 against defeated Oct. 30 when it plays In the fourth quarter, Stan-finished, but Knott will look to post-season berth. Fisher. St. Edward’s will look to Duncan, while Morrissey will ford’s second half defensive secure a playoff spot when it “Hopefully we’ll be in [Notre cement a playoff spot the same look to avoid a winless season changes helped force a Wilbur takes on Morrissey on Oct. 30. Dame Stadium] at the end of the day against Sorin. when it faces Knott. interception. The interception 
year,” Pepe said. led to a 33-yard touchdown drive Contact Nick Boyle at Carroll echoed a similar senti-Contact Scott Frano at Contact andrew Cardoza at capped off by a Fiessinger pass. nboyle1@nd.edu ment. sfrano@nd.edu acardoza@nd.edu “[The receiver] was a little open 
and I just saw it,” Fiessinger said. “And I just threw it up to him.” Dillon 35, Keough 0 The Griffins (2-1) then convert­
ed a two-point conversion for the By JAMES SOUTHARD 8-6 win. Sports Writer “The big difference were the 
adjustments we made during 

Dillon wrapped up its regular halftime,” Stanford junior cap-season with a 35-0 dismantling tain Paul Babiak said. “We didn’t of Keough. do it in the first two games and 
Dillon (3-1) made its case for finally we did and it worked.” the playoffs stronger with a daz-The win keeps Stanford alive in zling offensive display and a the playoff race. lockdown performance by the “It’s a lot easier to make the defense.  The dynamic duo of playoffs 3-1 than it is 2-2,” Babiak sophomore quarterback Kevin said. “So today was huge.” Fink and junior running back For O’Neill, the game was dis-Terry Howard combined for five appointing with a loss after a first touchdowns, four of which came half lead. in the first half. Howard had 160 “It was a rough second half for rushing yards. us and they did a good job on ad­
“On offense, all credit goes to justments,” Brolick said. the offensive line,” Fink said. Despite another loss, the offen-
The Big Red defense came sive line and running game gives away with two interceptions, one the Mob a bright spot to look for-of which came during Keough’s ward toward. only red zone trip. At one point, Stanford faces Keenan on Oct. Keough was on the Dillon 1-yard 30 to secure a playoff position line, but the defense held firm while O’Neill looks for its first win and forced a turnover immedi-against Keough. ately after a big sack. 
“Our defense really set the tone Contact Ernst Cleofe at today,” Fink said. “They came out ecleofe@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Ryan unleashes aerial attack on Lewis in 33-14 win 
McGlinn beats Pyros with late score; PW rolls over the Babes; Chaos remain unbeaten with win over Farley 

Curtis, who has led the Wild­cats to the best record in dorm history, caught the last touch­down of the game and broke a 30-yard run on the second play of the game. 
“As a senior, I couldn’t ask for more,” Curtis said. “It’s getting our whole dorm excited for foot­ball.” 
With the loss, Lewis’ playoff chances took a hit. 
“The game wasn’t working out for us,” senior captain Libby Redline said. “There was some lack of communication, and we played a little flat on our feet.” 

Despite the loss, sophomore receiver Colleen Haller and ju­nior quarterback Connaught Blood both had impressive By JONATHAN WARREN The Wildcats (5-0) showcased threw five to lead the Wildcats performances. Blood ran for a Sports Writer their offensive depth in the read over the Chicks (2-3). 40-yard touchdown in the first option, as four different play-“Our receivers [were] awe-half, while Haller racked up 63 
With an offensive burst fu-ers scored touchdowns. Senior some,” senior running back and receiving yards. 
eled by its receiving corps, Ryan receiver Grace Johnson caught captain Brianna Curtis. “We “I think we’re a little disap­
overwhelmed Lewis’s defense two touchdown passes and ju-had so many players scoring pointed,” Redline said. “We’re a 
Sunday in a 33-14 win. nior quarterback Maya Pillai and making big catches.” little frustrated, but we’re look­ing forward to our next game.” 

The Chicks take on Walsh on Oct. 30 at 5 p.m. while the Wild­cats will aim to stay undefeated against McGlinn at 6 p.m. the same day. 
Contact Jonathan warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 
McGlinn 6, Pasquerilla East 0 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
For the second game in a row McGlinn pulled off some late game heroics to claim a 6-0 vic­tory over Pasquerilla East. 
With 30 seconds left in the game, senior quarterback Lau­ren Miller connected with se­nior receiver Ayla Bicoy on a 45­yard pass that brought McGlinn (4-1) to the 4-yard line before Pasquerilla East senior captain Nneka Ekechukwu tackled Bi-coy, drawing an illegal contact penalty. On the next play Miller scored on a quarterback keeper from the 2-yard line. 
“We needed a big play,” Bicoy said. “A lot of the time Lauren didn’t have enough time [to throw the ball] but this time it worked out.” 
With the ball changing pos­session five times in the last three minutes, a tie seemed imminent. However, the Sham­rocks were able to get the ball at the end and capitalize on their big play. 
“A couple of really key inter­ceptions and a great job holding them on fourth downs gave us a chance to get the ball back,” Miller said. “It was just in time at the end of the game to seal the deal.” 
For the Pyros (0-5-1), it was not the way they wanted to fin­ish their season but they were still happy with their perfor­mance, Ekechukwu said. 
“Overall I think we played really well on both sides,” Ekechukwu said, “It was just an unfortunate mishap at the end that gave them that lucky score.” 
McGlinn looks to continue to build their momentum next week against undefeated Ryan while the Pyros will have to wait until next season to get back in action. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 39, Breen-Phillips 6 
By MEGHAN RODER 
Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla West won in dominating fashion, 39-6, over Breen-Phillips on Sunday. 
The Purple Weasels’ offense seemed unstoppable, relying on big passing plays to drive them down the field. 
“We worked hard on our of­fense,” senior captain Alison Lindeen said. “We have to keep scoring, keep making plays on defense and keep working hard because point differential can become a big factor in playoffs.” 
Meanwhile, the Babes (0-5) struggled to find a rhythm, but are content with the progress they have made given the cir­cumstances. 
“Getting on the scoreboard 
see RHYTHM/page 11 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, October 11, 2011 
Shutout 
continued from page 16 
by [the talk] and she started to understand that the spot wasn’t going to be handed to her.” 
Fox recorded two-straight solo shutouts on the road with a 2-0 win over Seton Hall on Friday and a 0-0 tie at Rutgers on Sun­day and has settled into the role of starting goalie, according to Waldrum. 
“Maddie played really well this weekend and settled into her spot and helped calm things down for us,” Waldrum said. “It all starts with her and she has really start­ed to hit her stride and play with confidence and consistency.” 
With the way his defense has performed, Waldrum remains confident in Notre Dame’s chanc­es at the Big East title with home matches against Georgetown, Villanova and DePaul left on the regular-season schedule. 
“With three more Big East games coming up they are going to be really important, but being at home will help us out,” he said. “There is no reason why we still can’t win this conference.” 
Contact andrew Gastelum at agestel1@nd.edu 
Goalie 
continued from page 16 
starts, his anxiety goes away. 
“Pressure comes before the game,” Walsh said. “As soon as the game starts, you kind of lose sight of that. There are a lot of jitters before the game, but once it starts, you just play. You’ll forget you’re on television, you’ll forget they’re the No. 1 team in the country and you just play. 
Saves in the early minutes mean a lot to Walsh’s entire game, he said. 
“It really builds your confi­dence and you get going early in the game,” Walsh said. “It gets your momentum going, your blood flowing. It gets you going pretty good. I’m never telling them not to shoot.” 
Communication with the defenders is another way Walsh maintains confidence in the goalie position, he said. 
“Our back line and me, we really pride ourselves on get­ting shutouts,” Walsh said. “We’re a pretty solid unit back there, and we’re all re­ally good friends. We have all played with each other before and we all know each other’s tendencies. I love these guys. They cover me and I cover them. It’s a mutual relationship.” 
Walsh said his defenders have been an integral part of the four shutouts this season. 
“When you get a shutout, it’s always huge. You take a lot of pride on not letting any goals,” Walsh said. “Sure, I get credit for the shutout, but usually it’s not just my doing. 
“Most of the credit goes to the defenders for locking down their offense.” 
Six of this year’s 11 games have gone into extra minutes. As overtimes are sudden death pe­riods, staying focused in goal is especially important, he said. 
“Overtimes aren’t fun,” Walsh said. “You certainly know that you let in one and it’s over. We need to start winning in over­time because we’re going to see overtime matches in the [NCAA] tournament. You can’t put any more emphasis on that than on the regular 90 minutes or you’ll start to lose that balance. If you play like you did in those 90 minutes, everything will be just fine.” 
Though Walsh played other po­sitions in high school a few times, he started to focus on the goalie position as his favorite early on. 
“My cousins and I used to go to this soccer camp every year, and we used to watch highlights af­ter lunch and they showed goalie highlights and it looked like a pretty cool thing to do,” Walsh said. “My mom got me a cheap pair of gloves the next day.” 
Walsh stepped onto the com­petitive field for the Irish for the first time at the beginning of the 2010 season to takeover for seven games as then-senior goalkeeper Phil Tuttle recovered from an injury. 
“I knew coming in that I wouldn’t play for a couple of years, which I was fine with,” Walsh said. “I was fine learning the ropes.” 


Walsh is eligible for a fifth-year on the team, and said he hopes to take that opportunity if it comes around. 
“If I’m offered it, I’ll probably take it,” Walsh said. “The more experience I can get before play­ing at the next level the better, and the more time to be seen by different MLS scouts. Getting to the MLS combine is a pretty big deal.” 
Walsh and the rest of the Irish squad will play next against Marquette at 8 p.m. Wednesday in Milwaukee. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Silva 
continued from page 16 
to receive the serve and any other hits that fly over the net from the opponent’s side. While there is no statistic recorded for how well a player receives a serve, Brown said that is where Silva’s greatest value lies. 
“It’s really a shame that they don’t keep a stat for that because as a result, her passing gets over­looked,” Brown said. “How we handle first contact with serve is so important to our offense.” 
While there may be no statistic to mark serves received, there is one for digs, and in this, Silva far and away leads the Irish. Her 4.34 digs/set is good for eighth in the Big East. 
Brown said the versatility of Silva’s play makes her extremely valuable. From passing to receiv­ing serves to getting digs, Silva is a linchpin of both the offense and defense. On top of that, she has become one of the top servers in the rotation, with an ace-to-error ratio that is best on the team. 
Her passion for the game, how­ever, is Silva’s greatest asset, Brown said. 
“If you walk in the gym, she’s always talking,” she said. “When one of our players gets a kill or a stuff block, she’s always the first to congratulate them. The team always comes first.” 
Silva’s team-first attitude is evident in her conduct with un­derclassmen, Brown said. Un­der the tutelage of Silva, younger Irish players like freshman libero Kathleen Severyn have learned how to handle the rigors of college competition. 
“Frenchy is about as good of a role model as you could ask for,” Brown said. “She and Kathleen [Severyn] work very closely in practice, and there’s no better person for her to learn from.” 
Though Silva will not lead the Big East in kills, it is her contribu­tions that do not appear in the box score — enthusiasm, defense and dependability — that make her the leader of this Irish team. 
“She works harder than any­body,” Brown said. “And that’s go­ing to be hard to replace when she leaves. She does so many things that don’t end up on the stat sheet.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
Keeton 
continued from page 16 
set victory against Tennessee’s Jarryd Chaplin demonstrated his new approach. 
“In Napa, Chaplin was get­ting into the net on him all the time and I finally told [Keeton], ‘You have to beat [Chaplin] in,’” Bayliss said. “That’s something he’s never done in his life and he did.” 
The Kansas City, Mo., native missed most of his junior sea­son due to injury, hindering his ability to work on improv­ing his skills. 
“I tore an abdominal muscle so it actually made it hard to work on my serve, because that was an area I couldn’t do because of the injury,” Keeton said. “So I had to take three or 
Gauge 
continued from page 16 
“They put together all the head-to-head statistics with the other ranked teams and the margin of victory and how the teams we have played perform against other teams around the country,” Kubinski said. 
But Kubinski said he doesn’t rely on the comput­erized rankings to gauge the team’s performance this sea­son since he has had a front-row seat to every shot taken on the course. 
“I really don’t need the poll because I have such a good feel for how we are doing without any of the rankings,” he said. “All that the poll says is that there are 19 teams sta­tistically ranked higher than us and we are better than the others behind us.” 
To gain the top-25 rank­ing, the Irish have finished in the top-10 in each of their three tournaments, includ­ing a third-place finish at the season-opening Gopher Invi­tational in Wayata, Minn. But Kubinski tagged the Olympia Fields Invitational in Chicago as the team’s turning point as the Irish finished in eighth place, defeating No. 8 Duke, 

four months off without serv-ley] enough, and he’s got to re­ing so it was hard to improve ally take the ball and run with 
on it during  it,”  Bayliss  
that  time.  said. “He’s like  
But  now  the  guy  who  
I’ve  had  a  swims 60 per- 
pretty  long  cent of the way  
string  of  “So I had to take three or  across the pool  
being  able  four months off without  and is afraid  
to work on it so I’ve gotten a lot  serving so it was hard to improve on it during that time. But now I’ve had a  he can’t get to the other side, so he swims  
better.” Now that  pretty long string of being able to work on it so I’ve  the other 60 back and then  
he’s further  gotten a lot better.”  realizes, ‘Wow,  
i m p r o ve d  I  clearly  had  
the physi­cal aspects of his game,  Sam Keeton Irish senior  enough in the tank to do it.’ I want him to  
Bayliss said  really  believe  
he hopes to  in  his  serve  
see an im­ and turn it into  
provement  a  big weapon,  

in Keeton’s mental confidence. because if you watch him serve “Now, he still doesn’t always now, he’s got the makings of, I believe in [his serve and vol-think, a great serve, if he can 
No. 20 Ohio State and No. 22 Au-he said. “It took us a couple of gusta State — three teams from years to go through the recruit-last season’s NCAA Final Four. ing cycle and get the guys that 
“Olympia was probably the we wanted in here and it’s about turning point out of all the com­petitions because all of the guys finished the last round really well,” Kubinski said. “The level of competition there was incred­ible and the guys realized that they didn’t play their best and still competed with some of the best teams in the country. It made us wonder: ‘What happens when we play our best for a full three rounds?’” 
Kubinski also attributed his team’s early success to the depth of his squad, which features two seniors in the starting lineup — Max Scodro and Tom Usher — and a group of sophomores be­hind them that serve as healthy competition. 
“Anytime you have a little competition within the team it’s good for us,” he said. “It makes everyone focus more on improv­ing and playing consistently. It wouldn’t be good to have a sense of complacency and feel comfort­able in your spot without some­one constantly pushing you.” 
But Notre Dame’s focus re­mains on improving and getting into midseason form to push for an NCAA title, Kubinski said. 
“It’s really a case of getting those guys back to where they need to be and going out there to fight for a postseason spot,” keep it up.” 
While Keeton showed his newly-formed skills at Napa, this upcoming weekend will put them to the ultimate test at the Midwest Singles/Dou­bles Championships in Colum­bus, Ohio. The finance major is hoping for a good showing there, as well as during the rest of the season, he said. 
“I want to be in the high line of players that’s going to win consistently,” Keeton said. “I think we need somebody who’s going to win up top so I want to be that person. Ideally I’d be ranked somewhere in the top­100 and just able to win a lot of matches and then hopefully I can make an appearance in the doubles lineup and help out there, as well.” 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
executing now.” 
Contact andrew Gastelum at agestel1@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JON REPINE 
JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT 
EXPND 
JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, October 11, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
All the right moves 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Following a devastating 3-2 overtime loss to Big East rival Marquette on Sept. 25, Notre Dame had won only one of its previous six games and gave up as many goals as they scored in that stretch. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum felt something had to change for the defending champions. Yet who would have thought the right move would be to shift se­nior defender and third-year captain Jessica Schuveiller to the midfield after she had been a fix­ture on the Irish backline for the last three-and-a-half seasons. 
“The move has really panned out,” Waldrum said. “Putting Jess in the midfield gives us a defensive presence there to fall back on so that we do not get too caught up in the attack and have to work our way back.” 
Since the move, the Irish (7-5­3, 4-2-2 Big East) have recorded four consecutive shutouts — all over Big East opponents. And in the Big East, where five points separate first place from fourth, conference wins are all the rage. 
“It was really important to get those games,” Waldrum said. “Earlier in the year, we would have lost some of those defensive struggles. It’s just a tribute to their perseverance and the way they have worked.” 
Meanwhile, in her new role as midfielder, Schuveiller has scored in each of the four shut­outs, all while earning Big East Defensive Player of the Week. 
“I think [Schuveiller] has five goals in the last four games and the move gives her the opportu­nity to get more involved with the attack as well,” Waldrum said. “It really makes you think, ‘What took you so long [to make the move]?’” 
The move also opened a spot for freshman defender Sammy Scofield, who has shined on the backline in tandem with senior defender Molly Campbell. 
“One of the keys defensively has been Sammy. She seems very comfortable back there and it looks like she has been back there forever,” Waldrum said. “Earlier on in the year we tried to put her back there, but it just wasn’t the right time for it. She’s still a freshman and she gained the confidence back and has grown a lot.” 
But Waldrum also pointed to a behind-the-scenes move as one of the causes behind the shutout streak. 

“[All the coaches] brought in [junior goalkeeper] Maddie Fox and we had a really candid con­versation with her about playing time and what we expected from her,” he said. “I don’t think she came into this season physically ready in her training during the offseason but she was motivated 
see SHUTOUT/page 14 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Team’s MVP shows vast improvement in game 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Very rare is the case that a player who goes 23-4 in one season has extremely noticeable deficiencies in his game. But Irish senior Sam Keeton was one of the excep­tions two years ago when his serves and volleys were not up to par. 
Since then, however, he has worked hard to correct those flaws — and succeeded 
— Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
“Two years ago, he was our team MVP,” Bayliss said. “He did that primarily off the strength of his forehand and backhand — his ground-strokes. He did not have a very good serve and [he was] not very good around the net and they were clearly his deficien­cies. Last year, he improved in those areas. His serve got a little better and his volleying became somewhat functional, enough that he would come in a little more and put a few balls away when he created an op­portunity for himself.” 
Those improvements were on full display two weeks ago at the Napa Valley Tennis Clas­sic, where Keeton won his first three matches to advance to the quarterfinals before bow­ing out of the tournament. In particular, his early straight-
see KEETON/page 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish capture spot in national rankings 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
It has been a breakthrough year for the Irish. 
For the first time in six years, Notre Dame is ranked in the top-25 in the national Golfstat poll, and the Irish rose to No. 20 for the first time since Irish coach Jim Kubinski’s first year at the helm in 2005, when he took his squad to 17th place at the NCAA Regionals. 
Despite breaking into the national rankings, Kubinski sees the feat as more appeal­ing to the players than to the coaching staff. 
“I think the players pay more attention to that than I do,” Ku­binski said. “They have a lot of fun with the rankings and it’s a reward for all of the work that they have put in so far this sea­son. It shows that they are work­ing hard.” 
The sixth-year coach said the polls are computer-generated based on a variety of statis­tics that include head-to-head matchups, average scores and tournament finishes. 
see GAUGE/page 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Silva brings energy, versatility 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
While the spotlight typically shines on players who light up the stat sheet, coaches often talk about the unsung contributors whose impact goes much further than a box score. Irish senior li­bero Frenchy Silva is one of those players, Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
The Laguna Niguel, Calif. na­tive has led the Irish defensively through her four years at Notre Dame and provided much-need energy, enthusiasm and leader­ship to the squad. 
“Frenchy is everything you’d want in a leader,” Brown said. “She’s absolutely vital to our team this year. From day one she’s brought an energy and enthu­siasm that really gets the whole team going.” 
As a libero, Silva’s main task is 
see SILVA/page 14 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Senior libero Frenchy Silva plays a ball from the ground on Oct. 2 in Notre Dame’s 3-1 loss to Big East foe Louisville. 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND’s final line of defense relishes role 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The eight-foot by 24-foot frame at the end of the field must be protected at all times, and that is senior goalkeeper Will Walsh’s job. 
His four saves against No. 1 Connecticut helped the Irish break the conference-leading Huskies’ 11-game win streak, and earned Walsh his fourth shutout of the year. 
“When the other team is about to shoot, I don’t think to myself that I’m not going to get it,” Walsh said. “It’s weird if they have the ball at the top of the box. I’m like, ‘Shoot the ball, because I’m going to save it.’ I’m literally telling them to come on and try and score. I’m just waiting for them to shoot.” 
The 21-year-old Delbarton graduate has covered the goal in every minute of No. 12 Notre Dame’s 11 games of the 2011 season, resulting in 1,120 min­utes of total play and only eight goals allowed. 
Before games, Walsh said cof­fee and sometimes music get him ready for another game in goal. 
“Especially being a goalie, you have to be really calm. You can’t be jittery. You have to have con­trol over your emotions, and you have to be really stable,” Walsh said. “It’s an alertness, not a jit­teriness, but a calm alertness. It’s like you’re in the zone, the perfect balance of ecstasy and control. You have to be acute and alert and ready to go, but you can’t be overly aggressive.” 
As soon as the first period 
see GOALIE/page 14 







