
Garcia improves to serious condition 
said her son is making progress ily by writing on a white board. city’s building codes do not in-News Editor day morning, 
By MEGAN DOYLE dition Sun-
toward recovery. “He’s a tough kid, and he’s clude any specific protection for according 
“The most important thing a fighter,” she said. “All of outside windows. He said Eddy After senior Marcus Garcia to a Memo-
that his friends and students his friends’ love, support and Street Commons meets all build-fell from his third-floor apart-rial Hospital 
should know is that he is in seri-prayers are being answered.” ing inspection requirements. ment window at Eddy Street nursing su­
ous condition, but he is stable,” Marcus Garcia fell from his “We feel really bad that some-Commons Thursday morning, pervisor. 
Kimberly Garcia said. “That’s apartment window around 4:30 body [was hurt],” Bulot said. his condition fluctuated between His fam­
the best news.” a.m. Thursday. His apartment “From the building end, we “critical” and “serious” through-ily traveled Marcus Garcia suffered inju-at the Foundry Lofts and Apart-make sure that the buildings, out the weekend. from his ries in the accident that restrict ments does not have guardrails when they are erected and ap-
Garcia, 21, was upgraded from hometown of his verbal communication, but or bars outside the window. proved, they meet all of the stan critical — the worst of five con-Turlock, Calif. to be with him his mother said he is able to South Bend Building Com­dition ratings — to serious con-and Garcia’s mother Kimberly communicate well with his fam-missioner Chuck Bulot said the see GARCIA/page 5 



Students’ families face Hurricane Irene 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
While Notre Dame students enjoyed a sunny weekend, many of their East Coast families ex­perienced torrential rain and high winds from the much-an­ticipated Hurricane Irene. 
Freshman Keira Heneghan said her hometown of Point Lookout, N.Y., received a manda­tory evacuation order on Friday. After boarding up the windows and flood-proofing the house, Heneghan’s sisters traveled to New York City to wait out the storm, while her father stayed behind to protect the house from looting. 
“My dad brought a kayak into the house in case the water level reached too high,” she said. 
The hurricane was not as powerful on Long Island as peo­ple expected, Heneghan said. 
The power went out and her basement flooded, but due to her family’s preparations, only the carpets were ruined. 
Heneghan said the rest of the houses in her community also had flooding, but no major dam­age. 
Some businesses, however, did not fare so well. 



“Our fishing station is com­pletely ruined,” Heneghan said. “They’re going to have to com­pletely redo their docks.” 
Junior Jill Giunco from Colts Neck, N.J., said the hurricane could have long-lasting impacts on the vineyard she lives on. 
“Right now my parents can’t really see what’s going on since it’s really flooded,” she said. “It’s probable that most grapes are destroyed or blown off.” 
She said that even if some grapes did survive, the large amounts of rain might have al 
see IRENE/page 5 


Campaign promotes aerial lift safety 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
Notre Dame launched a cam­paign Friday to raise aware­ness regarding aerial lift safety as part of an effort to prevent accidents like the one that in which Declan Sullivan died last fall. 
Sullivan, a student videog­rapher for the football team, died Oct. 27 after the scissor-lift from which he was filming football practice fell. 
The UpRight! campaign, de­veloped in conjunction with the Indiana Department of Labor (DOL), will provide safety in­formation for those who work with aerial lifts at universi­ties, colleges and high schools around the country. 
see SAFETY/page 5 


Girl Talk rocks the Block; students roll with the mashups 

By TONY RIVERA 
News Writer 
Legends of Notre Dame host­ed its third annual B1 Block Party Saturday, featuring popu­lar mashup artist Girl Talk. 
Live music blasted through­out the night, but students were especially fired up for Girl Talk. 
“Girl Talk was the most fun I’ve ever had at a concert,” freshman Brian Donlin said. “Everything about the night was awesome.” 
Doors opened for the event at 5 p.m. Saturday, and the mu­sic kicked off at 5:30 p.m. with three opening acts: Chicago-based band Midwest Hype, pop-rock artist Tim Stop and stu­dent band Brian Powers & The Gunty Quintet. 
Girl Talk took the stage around 9:30 p.m. 
“Girl Talk definitely deliv­ered,” freshman Maggie Law­rence said. “The night was basi­cally a whole-campus party.” 
Freshman Sean Paulsen, a longtime Girl Talk fan, agreed the performance lived up to the hype. 
“Most of the stuff that he was doing seemed to come from on the spot,” he said. “It was a re­ally amazing performance.” 
While some students had nev­er heard of Girl Talk before, the night’s set list included many songs students were already fa­miliar with. One of the biggest crowd-pleasers was the song “Shout,” originally released by The Isley Brothers in 1959. 
Donlin said the song was “easily the best part of the con­cert.” 
“It was a total ‘Animal House’ moment,” he said. 
Lawrence agreed. 
“Everybody was singing and dancing by then,” she said. “The crowd was completely into the song. They even got quiet when 
see CONCERT/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC student honored as Fulbright Scholar page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Girl Talk page 8 u Women’s soccer loses twice page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Monday, August 29, 2011 

A HAPPY ENDING 
Who is your idol? What is your favorite movie quote? 
Derek Jeter. He’s the greatest baseball “Bring it in for the real thing” from 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
player alive. “Wedding Crashers.” 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
How does being a Ph.D. student in What do you usually eat for breakfast? Editor-in-Chief 
aerospace and mechanical engineering 
Eggs and orange juice and coffee.
Douglas Farmer 

affect your romantic opportunities? 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak You know, Ph.D. stands for pretty What do you want to be remembered for? huge deal. Not enough people know 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Being a good friend. asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud that. News Editor: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
You are stranded on an island. What food,
Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph 
book and famous person do you bring with Scene Editor: Maija Gustin you? Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney “The Wanderers” by Richard Price, Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean 
Chicken Parmesan, John Lennon. 
advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman 
Tom’s response to the Question of the Day failed to appear in The Observer on Thursday,

Systems administrator: William Heineman 
August 25. He wrote an impassioned Letter to the Editor expressing his displeasure. In Office Manager & General Info response, today’s Question of the Day is all his. Enjoy your 15 minutes, Tom. 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 


(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one 
academic year; $75 for one semester.  
The Observer is published at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address corrections to:  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779  The Observer  
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame  P.O. Box 779  
and additional mailing offices  024 South Dining hall  

Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 







OFFBEAT 

Woman and prosthetic leg reunited by angler’s efforts 
ALEXANDRIA, Minn. — A woman who lost her pros­thetic leg while swimming in a western Minnesota lake three years ago has been re­united with the limb thanks to an angler. 
Beth Krohn was fishing last month on Lake Ida in Al­exandria. She says her line kept snagging on something, and that she hoped it was not a dead body. 
A KSAX-TV report says her catch turned out to be a prosthetic leg belonging to Pam Riley of Morris. 
Krohn returned the leg to Riley after tracking her down through a prosthetic limb manufacturer in Alex­andria. 
Krohn says she is proud of the catch, equating it with shooting the big buck. 
Riley says she always wondered what someone would think if they saw a leg surfacing in a lake. 
Melancholy whale hit by boat may also be pregnant 
FRIDAY HARBOR, Wash. 
— Is a killer whale in north­west Washington’s San Juan Islands behaving lethargi­cally because she was hit by a boat — or is she just preg­nant? 
National Marine Fisheries Service spokesman Brian Gorman said his agency was investigating a report that the whale had been hit by a private boat Friday. 
However, senior scientist Ken Balcomb of the Center for Whale Research in Fri­day Harbor says he carefully looked over the 18-year-old female whale and saw no evidence of any new injury. He also says she’s been act­ing “mopey” for days — “ac­tually much of the summer.” He thinks it’s possible she’s pregnant and soon to give birth. 
Washington fisheries of­ficials also were reportedly investigating the boat strike report. They did not imme­diately return calls for com­ment Friday evening. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. the Coleman-Morse Cen­ter will host an informa­tion session for the Campus Ministry’s Confirmation Program. The Notre Dame Confirmation Program be­gins each fall with candi­dates meeting every other Tuesday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in 330 Coleman-Morse Cen­ter. 
Tomorrow is the last day for all class changes. Con­tact the registrar today or tomorrow if you wish to make any class changes. 
Professor Martin Ostoja-Starzewski will give a lec­ture titled “Randomness and Fractals in Mechanics of Materials” tomorrow from 3:30 to 4:30. The lec­ture is sponsored by the de­partment of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering and will take place in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
SAO will hold Activities Night from 7 to 9 p.m. to­morrow night in the Joyce Center. All students are en­couraged to learn about the more than 250 undergradu­ate clubs and organizations at ND and to sign up to get involved. Please enter the Joyce Center Fieldhouse through Gate 3. Admission is free. 
A Catholic Charismatic prayer meeting will be held in Alumni Hall from 7:30 to 
9:30 p.m. tomorrow night. 
Meetings will be held every Tuesday night in the Alumni Hall chapel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 

Saram StrykerFelsenstein Eric Prister
Joseph Monardo Emily Schrank Kelsey Manning
Nicole Toczaur Adam Llorens Matt DeFranks
Christian Myers 


Graphics Scene 

Brandon Keelean ria Fernández
Maija Gustin 

Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Meghan

Pat Coveney Thomassen 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 








HIGH 60 LOW 56 
HIGH 81 LOW 65 
HIGH 88 LOW 70 
HIGH 90 LOW 70 

Monday, August 29, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Grad granted Fulbright 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s graduate Ra­chael Chesley has already lived abroad in Rome and South Ko­rea, but she expects her time in Malaysia through the U.S. Fulbright Student Scholarship Program to bring a different kind of “culture shock.” 
“Chances are that the area I will be placed in will have never hosted or let alone seen a Western individual before,” she said. “In addition, I am the only westerner in my school, and there is a strong chance I will be the only Westerner in my village.” 
Chesley, who graduated in May with a degree in business administration, will head to Malaysia in January to begin her English Teaching Assis­tantship. 
Although she will not find out her exact location until late September, Chesley has re­quested to be placed in rural Malaysia, and will be working in a small Islamic community. 
She said she welcomes the opportunity for new experi­ences. 
“The biggest adjustments will be learning to ride a motorbike to get around, adjusting to an Islamic community and being in a tropical climate,” she said. 
While in Malaysia, Chesley will teach English and also be involved in cultural outreach activities within the commu­nity. 
Recipients of Fulbright grants are selected based on their academic or professional achievements as well as dem­onstrated leadership potential in their fields. Chesley is one of 1,600 U.S. citizens who will travel abroad through the pro­gram for the 2011-2012 aca­demic year. 

She said the Fulbright Pro­gram considers its participants “cultural ambassadors.” 
“I am really enthused and 

excited about living in Ma­laysia,” she said. “Al­though of course there will be ad­justments, I believe that Fulbright prepares us well enough to have the basic in­formation needed to successfully adapt into the local community.” 
As the 2010 -2011 Saint Mary’s 
“Saint Mary’s College provided me the incredible people and fantastic resources that allowed me to grow and mature into an independent, confident woman who was excited to take the next step into the future.” 
Rachael Chesley Saint Mary’s class of 2011 
tunities to get involved and overall, encouraged me to take on leader­ship roles and chal­lenge myself whether on campus or abroad.” 
Alice Siqin Yang, assist ant director for global edu­cation at Saint Mary’s and the Ful­bright pro­gram advi­sor, said she 

College student body president, Chesley has significant leader­ship experience. She also said her study abroad experiences in Rome and in South Korea helped prepare her for the Ful­bright Program. 
“My previous experiences abroad in Rome and Seoul will definitely benefit me as I am encountering a new culture,” she said. “ Living abroad pre­viously allowed me to develop intercultural competence and the ability to adapt to new situ­ations.” 
She said she credits Saint Mary’s College for her aca­demic and professional devel­opment. 
“Saint Mary’s College pro­vided me with the incredible people and fantastic resources that allowed me to grow and mature into an independent, confident woman who was ex­cited to take the next step into the future,” she said in a press release by the College. “Saint Mary’s provided endless oppor­
was excited about Chesley’s se­lection for the program. 
“This is a great honor for Rachael and for Saint Mary’s College.” she said in the press release. “Rachel’s achievement is indicative of the educational quality and intercultural lead­ership training women receive here.” 
Yang said she is confident that Chesley will be an excel­lent cultural ambassador in Malaysia. 
“Rachael possesses strong professional and diplomatic skills,” she said. “She is en­ergetic, curious, and open-minded in learning different cultures.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney@nd.edu 
Holy Cross Hall utilizes new printer 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
For students in Holy Cross Hall, the days of trekking to the Cushwa-Leighton Library for printing are over. 
A new printer, which was a gift from the St. Mary’s College Student Government Associa­tion last spring, was installed in Holy Cross this year.  Residents have already started taking ad­vantage of the new device. 
Holy Cross resident Erin Duffy, a sophomore, said, “It was really great because I didn’t have to walk to the library, and it was really late at night, so that was helpful.” 
Junior Liz Robbins, also a res­ident of Holy Cross, said she is excited to use the printer. 
“It’s really convenient be­cause I could just walk down­stairs,” she said. 
Holy Cross Hall Director Ash­ley Hall added that she had seen many residents use the printer so far. 
“In the first week of classes the printer has been very help­ful for the students using it,” she said. “When I am in the office, I see numerous Holy Cross resi­dents using it for printing syllabi and papers, so much that we ran out of paper last night.” 
The printer was temporarily out of use for the first few days of classes, but by the middle of the week it ran smoothly again. 
“You wouldn’t think it would make a difference, but it really does,” junior Kate Kellogg said. 
Student Body Vice President senior Jacqualyn Zupancic said plans for putting printers in Le Mans, Regina, and McCandless Halls have not yet been deter­mined. 
“We will be having meetings in the next two weeks discuss­ing issues with the printer,” she said. “Currently, there are no other initiatives to put printers in any other dorms.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmary’s.edu 
Senior designs fitness program for students 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame senior Andrew Lamb’s new fitness training program is designed to accom­modate even the most hectic college student’s schedule. 
Lamb’s program, called souNDfit, is set to begin this week.
 “My program can be individ­ually constructed to accommo­date any Notre Dame student’s needs,” he said. 
Lamb’s two baseline pro­grams, one for males and one for females, can be tailored to fit the specific goals of any student, he said. Lamb said each pro­gram is a combination of do-it­yourself and personal training.
 “The programs are com­prised of individually crafted workouts that draw from mul­tiple schools of fitness, includ­ing weight training, CrossFit, circuit training, cardiovascular fitness and core stabilization,” he said. 
Lamb said that when design­ing his programs, he considered the differences between the ways men and women work out. The male program features car­diovascular intensive workouts combined with strength train­ing, while the female program emphasizes resistance training. 
“I was training some female friends over the summer. They really wanted to avoid building bulk,” Lamb said. “They were great in providing encourage­ment and helping me fine-tune the program.” 
Lamb has nine years of ath­letic experience to draw from, ranging from state-champion­ship baseball to Notre Dame interhall sports to Late-Night Olympics, he said. 
Lamb said that the program’s flexibility allows students to begin training at any time, re­gardless of previous training experience. 
Ten students are currently signed up for souNDfit. 
“I’m hoping to get up to 20 by the end of the semester,” he said. “That’s how many people I can handle training on my own.” 
The baseline program costs $35 per semester and $10 per month. Personal training ses­sions with Lamb cost $5 for one half hour and $10 for an hour. 
“It’s cheap compared to a gym membership, which usu­ally runs $40 per month,” Lamb said. “With personal trainers, they alone can cost $30 an hour at least.” 
Members can save money with the “Refer-a-Friend” dis­count as well.  Each time a friend of a member signs up for souNDfit, that member receives a five-dollar discount subtract­ed from his or her baseline fees and any personal training with Lamb. 
Lamb said he hopes students respond well to souNDfit’s low cost, easy accessibility and flex­ibility. 
“People can do it on their own if they want, though they can get an easy hold of me. I’m kind of filling the role of a coach,” he said. “It helps in that they can involve me as much or as little as they want in their program.” 
Lamb said depending on how many students sign up, senior Ryan Quillard might join sound-Fit later in the semester as an overflow trainer. 
While Lamb said he is unsure whether he will pursue a career in fitness after graduation, he is excited to launch the program at Notre Dame and plans to de­sign special winter and spring break programs as well. 
“I’m really excited,” he said. “Fitness is something I love and it’s a great stress manager. For now I’m happy to share the knowledge because it’s some­thing I’ve wanted to do for a while.” 
Students interested in learn­ing more about the program can visit souNDfit’s page on Facebook or contact Andrew Lamb at 937-751-3162. 
Contact Nicole toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 



Monday, August 29, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Safety 
continued from page 1 
The campaign originated af­ter Notre Dame reached a set­tlement with the DOL in July. Developing a nationwide edu­cation program about scissor lift safety was one component of the settlement. 
With the launch of the Up-Right! campaign, Notre Dame has completed all of the settle­ment’s  requirements, said Chetrice Mosley, DOL public information officer. 
University Spokesman Den­nis Brown said Notre Dame launched the campaign not only because it was part of the agreement with the DOL, but also because it was right. 
“We did it because we felt that it was the right thing to do,” Brown said. “We said right from the start that we’d do something like this.” 
University President Fr. John Jenkins also said the campaign helps fulfill a prom­ise the University made after Sullivan’s death to work to prevent similar accidents. 
“While we cannot bring De-clan back, we have said since last fall that we are committed to working with the Sullivan family and IOSHA (Indiana Oc­cupational Safety and Health Administration) to share the 
Garcia 
continued from page 1 
dards. Eddy Street Commons has so far and will continue to meet those in the future.” 
Representatives from Buck­ingham Companies, the devel­oper for the Foundry, did not return phone calls Friday. 
Vice President for Student Af­fairs Fr. Tom Doyle visited the Garcia family at Memorial Hos­pital over the weekend. 
“Each life is a gift from God,” Doyle said in a statement. “Of­ten it is life’s fragility that makes us acutely grateful of the lessons we have learned to help reduce the possibility of an accident like this ever hap­pening again,” Jenkins said. “The materials and informa­tion provided on the website are a part of our effort in that regard.” 

Sullivan’s father, Barry Sul­livan, said he supports the University’s effort. 
“We believe this is a posi­tive step in preventing aerial lift accidents in the future,” he said. “Our hope is that schools that use these lifts will pay attention to the information presented on the website and make sure to institute a robust lift safety program.” 
The campaign’s website, lif­tupright.org, provides infor­mation on proper setup and training for aerial lifts, as well as general instructions for how to deal with weather and for designating a safety con­tact person. 
The website also offers downloadable fact-sheets and posters, including one that shows the organization’s wind limit, the press release stated. 
Brown said the website is di­rected at the individuals who work with aerial lifts at educa­tional institutions around the country. He said the University will work with supporting or­ganizations, such as the Na­tional Federation of State High School Associations and the 
value of our own and others’ lives. We give thanks for Mar­cus’ life. Marcus is strength­ened by this grace and reflects back to us the preciousness of our own lives.” 
Doyle said the Notre Dame community reached out to sup­port the Garcia family during their son’s recovery. 
“While he is not yet permitted visitors at the hospital, Marcus and his parents are buoyed by the affection, support and grace of the Notre Dame com­munity’s prayers,” he said. 
Fisher Hall Rector Fr. Brad Metz will offer the dorm’s Mon­day night Mass for Marcus Garcia, who is a former Fisher Collegiate Sports Video Asso­ciation, to spread awareness. 
“Then they will use their communication tools to push that information out to their members,” he said. 
For example, Brown said some organizations will in­clude information from the campaign in their monthly newsletter or magazine. 
“It’s a push down the chain sort of approach,” he said. 
In addition to the nationwide aerial lift safety campaign, the settlement with the DOL re­quired Notre Dame to provide IOSHA with a list of locations where scissor lifts are used on campus and to complete re­fresher training for those who operate the equipment. It also stipulated Notre Dame would appoint a liaison between the athletic department and the risk-management deartment to ensure adequate safety training is provided to employ­ees. 
Notre Dame also agreed to make a substantial contribu­tion to the Declan Drumm Sul­livan Memorial Fund. 
Brown said Notre Dame has completed all of these steps. 
“We have completed all of the requirements of the reso­lution agreement with IOSHA,” he said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
resident. 
“I ask you all to keep Marcus, his family and roommates in your daily prayers,” Metz said in an email to the dorm. 
Kimberly Garcia said the family was optimistic about her son’s recovery. 
“I know God is good and will get us through this,” she said. “My husband Juan and I want to send out our thanks for ev­eryone’s support and prayers.” 
Marcus Garcia is a psycholo­gy and sociology major, accord­ing to the Notre Dame sociology department website. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Storm leaves many without electricity 

CA first to ban foam containers 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO — Restau­rant owner Gary Honeycutt says a push in California’s state Legislature to ban the plastic foam containers he uses to serve up takeout meals could cost him thousands of dollars in an industry where profit margins already are ra­zor thin. 
BJ’s Kountry Kitchen, in the heart of California’s farm country, uses about 26,000 of the 9-inch foam clamshells a year, mostly for takeout by the customers who come in for the restaurant’s popular breakfast omelets. 
“We put cheese on those omelets. And when we put the cheese on, it’s really hot and bubbly and it goes right through the biodegradable stuff,” he said. He expects his costs would more than double if the state requires him to use only biodegradable cartons. 
The bill by Democratic state Sen. Alan Lowenthal, would prohibit restaurants, grocery stores and other vendors from dispensing food in expanded polystyrene containers, com­monly known as Styrofoam, beginning in 2016. If signed into law, the measure would make California the first to institute a statewide ban on such containers. More than 50 California cities and counties already have similar bans 

The bill would exempt school districts and city and county jurisdictions if they implemented programs that recycled more than 60 percent of their foam waste. 
Lowenthal said litter from the foam containers is one of the most abundant forms of debris found in city streets, sewers and beaches. 
“It’s not biodegradable, it’s not compostable, and if it’s in the water for a long time, it breaks up into small beads and lasts for thousands of years. It costs millions to clean up beaches,” he said. 
San Francisco banned poly­styrene containers in 2007, but the city’s ingrained em­phasis on conservation made the switch relatively easy, said Rob Black, executive director of the Golden Gate Restaurant Association. 
“I do know that many of the restaurants had already start­ed a transition to compostable or biodegradable containers, so it was actually not as big of a transition as people might think because it was already something that was happen­ing within the culture here,” he said. 
Other jurisdictions across the country have banned Sty­rofoam, including Suffolk County in New York and the coastal city of Freeport, Maine. 
Opponents of the bill say it fails to address the root cause of litter — the litterers them­selves. Litterbugs will toss out the containers whether they’re made of polystyrene or biode­gradable cardboard, said Mi­chael Westerfield, corporate director of recycling for Dart Container. 
“At the end of the day, people that litter don’t care what type of product they’re littering,” he said. 
Dart, one of two companies in California that make the Styrofoam products, employs about 600 people in the state. The company already makes the biodegradable alternative, but the two California plants are incapable of producing anything other than the Styro­foam material. 
“If you get rid of manufac­turers like Dart, how do you know all the alternative ma­terials will come from Califor­nia? The reality is, they won’t,” he said. 
Irene 
continued from page 1 
tered their sugar content, which affects their quality. 
Giunco’s parents were not able to take many precautions because of the extremely large size of their vineyard, she said. 
Giunco’s grandfather, how­ever, bought a generator for his home in Freehold, N.J. 
“His basement is flooded five inches, but if he didn’t buy the generator the water would have risen onto his first floor,” she said. “It happened to all his neighbors, but the genera­tor gave him a way to pump out some water even after the power went out.” 
Junior Chris Grunewald said his family in Bethesda, Md., felt “let down” by the storm because it did not have as great an impact as they had expected earlier. 
“I talked to my eighth-grade sister today, and she said she was incredibly disappointed and she wants a refund,” he said. 
Grunewald said his parents looked at the impending hurri­cane as an opportunity to host a hurricane-themed party at their home. 
“They had about fifteen peo­ple over and just drank Dark ‘n Stormy’s, rum and ginger beer, all night,” he said. 
Although a few houses did lose power in Bethesda, Grunwald said the outage did not last long, and there was no other major damage caused by the storm. 
“I think it was overhyped, everyone was just being overly cautious,” he said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Concert 
continued from page 1 
Girl Talk said so, then louder again.” 
Despite the concert’s up­beat atmosphere, students ex­pressed concerns about crowd safety. 
“The crowd was pretty rough,” Paulsen said. “I think I remember accidentally hip checking a kid into the fence. It was definitely crowded.” 
Some even had trouble keep­ing track of their friends. 
“I lost my friends the minute I walked in,” sophomore Johnny Romano said. “But it was okay because I spent the rest of the night with a bunch of people I didn’t know. It was fun anyway.” 
Other students also said the large crowd made the perfor­mance more enjoyable. 
“For a show like that you re­ally don’t want a crowd that’s all low-key,” Paulsen said “That just wouldn’t be fun.” 
Contact tony Rivera at rrivera3@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
It could take weeks to restore power to millions of people left in the dark by Tropical Storm Irene. 
The lights went out for more than seven million people and businesses from Folly Beach, S.C., to Portland, Maine. And thousands of utility workers have begun the race to restore power. 
Getting the lights back on will be an enormous job for crews fanning across the East Coast. Irene ripped down power lines and crushed critical equipment near power plants. It flooded coastal cities with seawater, dousing electrical stations and threatening underground wires. Crews are still assessing the damage. 
“We’re dark across the whole map,” said Theresa Gilbert of Connecticut Light & Power. Irene blacked out half of the utility’s 1.2 million customers Sunday, making it the biggest outage ever in Connecticut his­tory. 
More than five million people and businesses remain without power, and the storm had led to the deaths of at least 20 people in eight states by Sunday eve­ning. Some areas in its path, like Manhattan, were relative­ly unscathed by the weekend storm, while other areas will need days, or even weeks, to recover. 
The outages could be criti­cal for the elderly, disabled and others who rely on community services. 
“What if we’re without power for days?” asked Pat Dillon, 52, who is partially paralyzed from a stroke. Dillon’s senior care facility in Milford, Conn., lost power when a generator failed. As she sat in the dark, Dillon worried that her wheelchair’s batteries would run out. Even worse, she needs to keep her diabetes mediation chilled. 
“Once the refrigerator gets warm, my insulin goes bad,” Dillon said. “I could go into dia­betic shock. It’s kind of scary.” 
Power companies say they’ll try to get critical services run­ning first. But many are just starting to understand the full extent of damage to the grid. Utility workers must traverse thousands of square miles to find out what’s down before they can start repairs. 
“It’s going to be several days at least for our most severely damaged areas” to get pow­er back, said Mike Hughes, a spokesman for Progress Energy in North Carolina, which serves about 3.1 million customers. 
Gilbert, with Connecticut Power, said it took two weeks to restore power after Hurricane Gloria knocked out service to 477,000 customers in 1985. 
“And this definitely blows those numbers away,” she said. 
In Virginia, Irene knocked out power to more than 300 critical services, including hos­pitals, emergency call centers and fire stations. Dominion Re­sources expects half of those facilities to be restored by the end of the day and most of the rest fixed by Monday. 
Most public health and safety facilities have backup genera­tors, Dominion spokesman Dan Genest said. “For those that don’t, we’re asking them to take care of their people as well as they can. We’ll get them up as soon as possible.” 
Lights were already flicker­ing back on in the South, where the storm hit first. Crews have started clearing uprooted trees and reconnecting electrical lines. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hello, our name is Asiatic Gaze 
A new sheriff in town 
It started like any other night at the bar.  The cowboys were settling in after a long day, drinks in hand, their sweethearts nestled beside them, the piano player playing a rickety tune in the back corner. All was peaceful until a gunshot broke the silence. 
Every soul in the room jumped a foot in the air. Folks scattered, sending chairs and tables flying. But no, there was no shoot­out; the sound had come from outside. We all rushed out back to see what had happened, and there he was. 
Editorin-Chief Douglas Farmer, pistol in hand, standing over the body of Quark; his lady InDesign by his side as he muttered, “Good rid­dance.” 
Okay, so there was no shootout, the “bar” is none other than our lovely South Dining Hall Basement (which you all should have seen during our open house Sunday) and Douglas Farmer never shot anyone. 
The fantastic Old West theme for the introduction to this Inside Column is my spinoff of an e-mail Douglas sent The Observer staff last week on the last night the paper was produced with Quark, our old page layout design software. 
Some will mourn the absence of Quark — notably Miss Amanda Gray, a Quark wizard unlike any other. But for the most part, I think the entire Observer production staff will be happy to welcome InDesign, our new layout program, to The Observ­er office. 
No more computer crashes will lead to fewer late nights, fewer late nights will lead to happier produc­tion staffs, and happier production staffs will lead to a better paper (and less “zombified” students in your classes, though you probably wouldn’t be able to tell the differ­ence around midterms anyway). 
You, reading this column right now. Look at the paper you’re hold­ing. Look up, look down. Puppy surprise, the paper is now tickets to that concert you really want to go to! 
Okay, I’m not going to transition into some Old Spice commercial, but I’m pretty sure that caught your attention if you were starting to fall into the mid-column daze. 
You may not realize how momen­tous this is (to us on production at least), but just understand you’re experiencing what will hopefully be one of the best changes in Observer history.  Because at the end of the day, all of the work we put into this paper is for you, the readers. 
Switching to InDesign was a bold move, a brave move even. Things might be a little hectic in the office until it all settles in, but here’s to welcoming the first edition of The Observer produced using InDesign! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at      ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Nicole Toczauer 
News Writer 
These are stories that we of Asiatic Gaze have experienced at a university that is “committed to diversity ... because it is a moral and intellectual necessity.” 
— It was a night like any other night, until my 
Asiatic Gaze
thoughts were suddenly and 

Guest Columnists 
rudely inter­rupted by the cacophonous sounds of a poorly-mocked Asian language. Each “ching” and “chong” scraped at my eardrums and provoked my heart. I guess they had nothing better to do. With a desire for confrontation, I longed to pursue the two laughing boys stalking away. 
My friend stopped me, though, so all I could do was furiously watch the reced­ing backs of the ignorant perpetrators, passing up the opportunity to set some­thing right. Regardless of how many times this has occurred, nothing can prepare or protect me from an insult directed at something so fundamental to my being as my identity. 
— I often wonder whether our aca­demic community truly values diversity. Being bilingual, I struggle to separate the two spheres in my verbal and written communication; idioms from one culture pop out of my mouth and I realize that I made no sense whatsoever to those around me. I forgive myself for silly mis­takes in social settings; it’s different when an authority with a red pen labels your style as unacceptable. I was told that my persuasive style, my use of prepositions and my way of making the words flow together, was all wrong. 
How long will we go rejecting any style other than the rigid American way — up front and aggressive? How much weight is our university putting on its own state­ment, “We come to appreciate how the gifts of each individual enrich the lives of every individual and the community as a 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Dreams that do come true can be as unsettling as those that don’t.” 
Brett Butler “Knee Deep in Paradise” 
whole”? 

— As the only non-Asian member of the Asian American Association, I know a little bit about sticking out like a sore thumb. 
In other words, I’m white. The closest I’ve ever come to first-hand exposure of an international culture was staying in a beach front hotel in Cancun. Why then do I subject myself to obvious ridicule by joining a cultural society that I have no connection to other than through a few Asian friends? 
My answer was nearly identical to that of a college freshman attending a party at which he or she knows almost no one. I was looking for a sense of belonging anywhere I could find it. In what most would call an unlikely scenario, I felt more at home with students with whom I had very little in common than I did with others who came from similar physical and cultural backgrounds. 
It is unfortunate that my experience would be categorized as unlikely, for as much as society has supposedly pro­gressed, the same physical and cultural boundaries that I was able to “bypass” still deter many others from discovering some pretty good people. 
— An Asian American friend of mine from Nevada once told me, “I feel bad for international students [like you] at Notre Dame. Many of them haven’t been to other parts of the United States and think this is what America is actually like.” Last Saturday I was at the B1 Block Party with some of my Asian friends. We were moving through the crowd, trying to go to the front, but stopped at some point because we couldn’t go any further. We happened to cut a group of people who were already there, so one of the students behind me tried to get his friend to his side. 
He reached his hand out to her, laugh­ing and yelling, “Hey! Cut through the Asians!” What is America actually like? 

We attend a university that emphasizes the dignity of every human being, and yet there are evidently classmates of ours who degrade this dignity, intentionally or not. It is simply the case that many such minds accommodate only what their backgrounds have exposed them to. The sad implication of such occurrences — especially in a generation which is sup­posedly open-minded, progressive and tolerant — is that too many others suffer such treatment in much more mammoth and hideous proportions. 
Though many hold the perception that all Asians look alike, possess some level of mathematical prowess or have a set of parents of unimaginable standards and rigidity, we would like for the readers to keep in mind that we do not (and can not) speak for the entire Asian population. 
However, it is safe to say that many others in our community share these views and experiences. We are but a few concerned students disturbed by the disparity between our university’s grand mission statement of solidarity and the reality of minorities here on campus. 
We also don’t and can’t speak for other minorities: Hispanics, Blacks, LGBT, individuals with disabilities or whoever might feel like a minority within our community. 
However, we hope that they will seek out certain microphones on our cam­pus such as The Observer to make their voices and experiences heard. Through this column, we truly wish to start a sincere conversation to assess where the Notre Dame community stands in the ac­ceptance of the minority population. 
Edithstein Cho, Jee Seun Choi, Hien Luu and Michael Swietek can be reached at echo1@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
WEEKLY POLL 
What are you doing before the game on Saturday? 
Eating free food at tailgates Playing cornhole Painting my body green All of the above 
Vote by Thursday 
ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Incorrect attribution 
Dear Mr. Easley,

       Your article, “President Perry,” did a wonderful job of profiling a politi­cian and presidential hopeful who is just emerging from the shadows of candi­dates such as the stoic Mitt Romney and the Minnesotan squawk-box, Michelle Bachmann. Having previously read your articles, I knew that a few not-so-veiled shots would be taken at our President and really paid no mind to your disparag­ing of his work and questioning of his academic successes. 
In the third column of the article, though, something caught my eye, already jaded by your smug, cookie-cutter, GOP prose. You wrote on what President Obama has done since his inauguration, and I quote, “letting over a thousand 
U.S. servicemen die in conflict overseas.” 
I have a problem with this statement. These wars, started by President Bush a little less than ten years ago, have claimed 4,474 lives in Iraq and 1,350 in Afghanistan. Since Obama’s inauguration, 246 have died in Iraq and many more in Afghanistan, but not the “more than a thousand” that you vehemently attri­bute solely to President Obama. 
To say that President Obama “let” these brave men and women die overseas is pure untruth and hypocrisy. Where were these scathing remarks when 4,228 servicemen and servicewomen fell in the line of duty during the Presidency of George W. Bush? Every life lost in these conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan is a tragedy, and in my opinion, one that need not have occurred. That is not, how­ever, why I am writing this. 
I am writing because you are attributing an incorrect number of fatalities to a man who, from his first days in office, has worked to end our involvement in these countries and bring our brave soldiers home. Your insinuation that President Obama let those men and women die out of some sort of careless neg­ligence is distasteful, slanderous and of poor journalism. I hope that your next piece, which, I’m sure, will criticize our president some more, will at least do so in a way that is both truthful and rational. 
Christian Blaum 
junior Morrissey Manor Aug. 26 
Perry’s “injustice” 
In a speech announcing his candidacy for President, Rick Perry bemoaned “the injustice that nearly half of all Americans don’t even pay any income tax.” Forgetting that everyone, regardless of income level, still pays state and local income, payroll and sales taxes, Perry characterized half of Americans as Exhibit A in his case against the welfare state. Should a family of four surviv­ing on $26,400 or less annually get away without paying federal income taxes? Perry thinks we are witnesses to an injustice here.
  Almost half of all households don’t make enough money to qualify for fed­eral income taxes, but about two-thirds of that group still pay federal payroll taxes. 
The Tax Policy Center estimates that only 18 percent of Americans pay nei­ther federal payroll nor income taxes, and more than 90 percent of that group is either elderly or makes less than $20,000 a year. Given a tax code riddled with loopholes that overwhelmingly benefit rich or corporate persons, Perry focuses on the “injustice” of not more heavily taxing some of the oldest and poorest Americans. Talk about class warfare.
  Perry loves to mention the jobs he created as Governor of Texas, and public sector jobs in his state have indeed grown by 6.4 percent since the beginning of the recession. Private sector jobs, however, have shrunk by 0.6 percent. The government now employs one in six Texans. Still, Perry, a model of disingenu­ousness, demonizes any effort to expand the role of government during an economic downturn, despite how his state benefited from $24 billion in stimu­lus money and a surge in government jobs.
  An editorial by Harold Myerson in the Washington Post reported that Texas, where Perry has served as governor since 2000, leads the nation in minimum-wage jobs and adults without high school diplomas, and is tied with Mississippi for the fourth-worst poverty rate. Kaiser State Health Facts statis­tics show that 26 percent of Texans lack health insurance, the highest rate of any state. This is not a picture of successful governance. 
Mike Pilger 
sophomore Fisher Hall Aug. 26 

Congratulations, Holy Cross transfers 
As the first couple of weeks of the new school year begin, I would like to Holy Cross College students (including myself) enrolled at this university.  I take the time to recognize a special group of individuals. Each semester, a would like to congratulate those seven other Holy Cross students for their ac-group of transfer students from colleges and universities all across the world complishment. enter the realms of Notre Dame in pursuit of their continuing college educa-As Father Jenkins said at the luncheon during Transfer Orientation, never tion. A small group of these transfer students come from Holy Cross. No, I’m let anyone else tell you that you are less of a Notre Dame student than those not talking about the one in Worcester, Massachusetts. who go here all four years.  My words to you are as follows: You are and al-
I am talking about the small college that borders the west side of our be-ways will be members of the Notre Dame family and you deserve to enjoy it to loved campus.  Out of all the students that transfer to Notre Dame, the ones the fullest! who come from Holy Cross College have a peculiar catchphrase that empha­sizes their actions. Trenton Spoolstra 
Known as “pulling a Rudy” (referring to the legendary Notre Dame Foot-junior ball player Daniel “Rudy” Ruettiger), a number of Holy Cross students fill out off campus transfer applications in the hopes of moving across the street.  This fall, eight Aug. 27 
UWIRE 

Political discourse about presenting the facts 
Who would persuade you better: a person calmly explaining his evidence or some­one calling you an idiot for disagreeing with him? Given how important persuasion is in democracies, you might think this would be well understood by now. Sadly, such common sense rhetorical knowledge has been disregarded by liberals and Demo­crats in their approach toward Tea Party protesters. 
Samuel Carrigan 
Outreach and dialogue has taken a permanent backseat to mockery and dismissal. Tea Partiers are called gun nuts, 
Cavalier Daily 
lunatics, racists and even “terrorists.” A terrible myopia has led to a desperate, alienated audience being branded as irredeemably insane, stupid or evil. This strategy was tested in the 2010 midterm elections and it resulted in huge Democratic losses. 
Media depictions create an image of a Tea Party that is palpably ignorant and clinging madly to its beliefs. The person holding the “Keep the government out of Medicare” sign is, of course, clearly out of step with reality. But does that make him evil? No. Perhaps if he were kindly presented with evidence that his Medicare cover­age is being threatened by austerity hawks — that is, Tea Party Republicans — who are keen on slashing budgets, he would vote differently come election time. But why educate when we can point and laugh at how scared, misinformed people cannot spell “socialism” correctly on signs? 
In fact, Tea Party protesters air some legitimate grievances. Look at the economic situation that has affected the nation’s poorest half for the last three decades. Noam Chomsky has observed that wages have stagnated and inflation has continued to rise, a doubly painful phenomenon summed up by the remarkably ugly word “stag­flation.” Jobs that used to exist in small towns are vanishing overseas. Corporate profits continue to soar. Meanwhile, almost half of Americans are now “financially fragile” and thus unlikely or unable to come up with $2,000 in 30 days if it were needed. 
There is good reason for these people to fear the future, but for the most part they have been distracted by right-wing propagandists who have them worrying about invisible monsters. Blame your problems on the lurking Mexican immigrants who will destroy our nation, just like the Chinese and the Irish did. Or perhaps all the problems are caused by that Marxist president who socializes everything, creating unemployment. Wait a moment: In reality, corporate profits have grown massively during President Obama’s term in office. 
Would a Republican president want it any other way? Odd, but it seems conserva­tive policies have a tendency to hinder just the sort of people who come out to Tea Party protests. 
Some, like veteran journalist Christopher Hitchens, argue that one of the move­ment’s major motivations seems to be fear that demographic shifts are a threat to a social order that grants whites great privilege. The manipulation of racial tensions by those who influence the Tea Partiers is unacceptable, but all signs indicate that racism does flourish among the poorer, less educated portion of the protesters. 
Perhaps some Tea Party sympathizers will not change their beliefs about race even in the face of overwhelming evidence, but it is a diverse group. Many Tea Party protesters would be glad to consider and confront the true origins of their hardships 
— if they could only find out what they are. 
Does any of this imply the Tea Party’s policy demands are the right ones? Of course not. So many of their recommendations and demands are founded on huge political and macroeconomic misunderstandings that it makes one wonder if they are talking about the real world. This does not nullify the fact that they also are voters with a right to participate in the electoral process and the ability to cancel out well-reasoned votes if they buy into fabrications. 
Liberals must make a choice. They can do the easy thing and laugh about the way Tea Party protesters continue accepting right-wing distortions. Or they can roll up their sleeves and take on the civic challenge of speaking candidly to their fellow citizens. If they do the latter, they might see that Tea Partiers, armed with real facts about the political landscape, do not seem so crazy after all. 
This article originally ran in the Aug. 27 version of the Cavalier Daily, the newspaper serving the University of Virginia. 
Girl Talk goes with the flow and throws the (Block) party of the year at B1 
By CHRIS COLLUM 
Scene Writer 

Pittsburgh mash up artist Girl Talk (Gregg Gillis) seemed a logical selec tion to headline an event marketed as the “Biggest Party of the Year.” Walk into any Notre Dame dorm room party, and within thirty min utes it’s almost guaranteed that you will hear some sort of mash up. Last school year, Legends brought two different mash up artists to campus 
— Super Mash Bros. and The White Panda. We just love to hear the latest Top 40 hook remixed over a classic rock anthem, for one reason or an other. 
However, blaring mash ups from speakers in a crowded dorm room is a different proposition entirely than paying to see what seems to be a man with just a bandana and a lap top flail about on stage for an hour and a half. Sure, students brought on stage to dance and occasional re leases of balloons or huge fluorescent balls spiced things up, but in reality the energy of the show inevitably de pended upon the crowd. 
And the crowd certainly respond ed well to Girl Talk. 
The best way to think about this event is indeed less as a concert and more as a party. In that light, Girl Talk was a huge success. His light show set the perfect party atmo sphere, and having about twenty or so students on stage dancing helped add to that feeling. Musically, his party was exactly what is to be ex pected — spot-on mash ups, some drawn from his five full length re leases, but most put together on the spot by the man himself. 
One of the most intriguing things about Girl Talk’s music is the variety of songs that he selects to sample. His work serves as an effective amal gamation and blending of diverse genres and styles in a way that is more seamless than one would think possible.  The end result is some thing close to a universal popular music experience — pop in overdrive mode, if you will. 
He began his show Saturday night with a mash up similar to the one that begins his 2010 album “All Day,” combining Black Sabbath’s “War Pigs” with Jay Z’s “99 Problems” and Ludacris’ “Move B .” Other nota ble odd couple pairings throughout the course of the show included Ol’ Dirty Bastard’s “Got Your Money” with Arcade Fire’s “Ready to Start,” The Who’s “Baba O’Riley” with Pit bull’s “Hotel Room Service” and Kel ly Clarkson’s “Since U Been Gone” with an unidentifiable Waka Flocka Flame song. 
However, the hook that got the most recognition from the crowd was undoubtedly Bon Jovi’s “Living on a Prayer,” proving once again that Bon Jovi is definitely something Notre Dame students like. Maybe Bob Kes sler does know a thing or two about us. 
Girl Talk kept the crowd’s attention for nearly 90 minutes with his ener gy and tenacity, the perfect amount of time for such a performance. A show any longer may have gotten a bit stale. But as it was, the man did his magic on stage, we went wild and a great time was had by all. 
Contact Chris Collum at ccollum@nd.edu. 



For more photos of the B1 Block Party, visit ndsmcobserver.com/multimedia 

You dress to the nines on the first day of class. 
By SUZANNA PRATT 
Scene Writer 

You wear your ID card on a lanyard around your neck. 


not going for the nouveaux-riche look), but statement pieces are key. You want people to know you mean accessory business. 
The best thing about gold as a color is that it goes with everything — black, red, white, tan, even gray! Gold in­stantly warms an outfit, giving your 
cheeks an extra radiant 


glow in the process. Think of yourself as a canvas, and your accessories as the frame. If you’re wear­ing gold sandals, add a gold bag and gold cuffs. A gold belt will cinch any waist 
and give you an 
Photo Courtesy of hm.com 

air of Belle Époque 
Gold cuff, H&M, 

glamour in the 
$12.95. 

process.  Brooches also work — pin a gold one onto a white t-shirt and you’ll have new style savoir­faire.  For those of us enamored with layering, an easy way to up the ante on a simple jeans and t-shirt combo is by adding a gold camisole underneath. This hint of shimmer woven into your main piece will further stupefy your audience with wonder.  Start out your golden journey with a golden Zara bucket bag for $99.00 and a gold H&M cuff for $12.95. Who says only Midas had the golden touch? 
You go to pep rallies. 

I have always been inspired by the statue of Our Lady which sits proudly on the Golden Dome.  While visitors see her as an example of the aesthetic beauty inherent in Notre Dame’s cam­pus, young student tour guides refer to her place in the “Jump, mama!” folklore and alumni photograph her on the Dome as part of the visual embodi­ment of the phrase “God, Country, Notre Dame”, I like to think Felicia I share a more per-Caponigri sonal bond with her than any other fan. Scene Writer 

High up in the sky, as she looks down upon our activities and preoccupations, she may be getting on in years, have her hands forever stretched out and battle birds and other weather elements without any protection, but she always presents a fash­ionable figure in her golden sheath.  Let’s face it, Mary knows how to grab her viewer’s atten­tion, and it’s not by wear­ing black, gray or any other mono­tone color. 
Em­bracing 


been the road to fashion domination, his­torically and in contemporary times. From Cleopatra to Jennifer Lopez in Marchesa, whether entering the empire of Rome or walking the red carpet, the shimmer of this precious metal allows you to stand out from the crowd. Italian women consider gold a must of every outfit. A walk down any Italian street displays women of every age with gold touches everywhere in their overall style presentations.  Well, the last time I checked, Italian streets had nothing on our wide campus runways! How can we break out our own inner golden girls while keeping our minds on academic journals, papers, exams and overall intellectual world domination? Ladies, look no further than the gold accessory. 
Gold accessories come in all shapes and sizes. They can be as inconspicuous as treasured, simple hoop earrings, or as loud and vivacious as a gold carry­all tote. The key to making gold work in your overall fashion ensemble is to go big or go home.  Now, please note, 

FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 
Sophomores  Grace  Hatfield  and  
Margaretaccessories.   Preuss  model  gold  

The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Felicia Caponigri at 
metal-
Photo Courtesy of Zara.com

lics has always Gold bag, Zara, $99. 
You don’t know which lake is which. 

Contact Suzanna Pratt at spratt2@nd.edu 

I’m not talking Snoop Dogg big (we are fcaponigri@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLaSSiFiEDS Monday, August 29, 2011 
LLWS 

Walk-off single lifts California over Japan for title 
Associated Press 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. 
— An American flag draped around his shoulders, Braydon Salzman couldn’t contain his glee when he found California teammate Nick Pratto to give him a postgame hug. 
The boys from Huntington Beach are headed home with a Little League World Series championship. 
Pratto singled in the winning run with two outs and the bas­es loaded in the bottom of sixth inning, and Salzman pitched a complete-game three-hitter in a 2-1 victory Sunday over Hamamatsu City, Japan, and the tournament title. 
“USA! USA,” yelled fans be­fore Pratto’s single. 
“I was just thinking. ‘Oh God, Oh God,’ Before I was getting in the box,” the 12-year-old Pratto said. “But once I got into the box, I calmed myself by telling myself to just look for a good pitch.” 
Pratto’s clutch hit returned the World Series title to the United States with the type of victory even the big leaguers dream about. A U.S. team has now won six out of the last sev­en World Series, with Japan’s win last year the exception. 
Pratto tossed his helmet into the air after rounding first be­fore his teammates mobbed him in the infield. The teams exchanged handshakes at the plate before California’s giddy players posed at the mound with their new championship banner. 
“My team is physically small­er than most of the teams. We didn’t think we would get to this stage,” Japan manager Akihiro Suzuki, who fought back tears after the game, said through interpreter Kotaro Omori. “All of the players did such a won­derful job to get to this stage.” 
With runners on first and second, an error by Japan shortstop Gaishi Iguchi on what could have been an in-ning-ending double play loaded the bases for California. After a force play at the plate, Pratto smacked a solid liner to center off reliever Kazuto Takakura that brought pinch-runner Eric Anderson home with the win­ning run. 
Pratto did his father, man­ager Jeff Pratto, proud. Nick Pratto said it was great to have his father as his coach, “but he kind of gets on my nerves sometimes.” 
It was a fitting end to a tense game marked by excellent pitching and timely defense. 
Japan starter Shoto Totsuka struck out five over 4 1-3 in­nings, giving up a homer to right to California slugger Ha­gen Danner. 
First pitch was delayed more than three hours after the out­er bands of Hurricane Irene brought more rain than expect­ed to the Williamsport area. 
“The result was bad, but they really tried their best,” Suzuki said. “Today’s weather was dif­ficult for us to get used too. If the weather was like this in Ja­pan, we wouldn’t have played.” 
The clouds finally started parting midway through the game, and sunshine draped the complex by the time the Cali­fornia players left the stadium to cheers by friends and family. 
Neither team could convert on several chances to break open the pitcher’s duel earlier in the game. 
With runners on first and second in the top of the sixth, third baseman Dylan Palmer blocked the bag from sliding Japan runner Ken Igeta on a bunt play to help get California get out the inning. 
California put runners on first and second with two outs in the fifth, but Takakura got a flyout to end the inning. 


It was Japan running all over the place in the third, flashing trademark hustle to scratch out the game’s first run after Seiya Fujita’s solid single to left. Pinch-runner Kaito Suzuki moved to second on a bunt and raced toward third with no one covering. The throw bounced into foul territory, allowing Su­zuki to score easily. 
In a gracious postgame gesture, Japan’s players and coaches lined up and ex­changed high-fives with the California kids after Hunting­ton Beach did the traditional victory lap around the stadium warning track. 
“It’s just a dream come true,” Danner said. “I never thought we would be in that spot, let alone winning it.” 
MLB 

Votto blasts two home runs as Reds defeat Nationals in 14 
Associated Press “It didn’t feel like a great day Reds pinch-hitter Yonder es with one out in the top of the with the bases loaded to give the with the bat for me but I end up Alonso opened the ninth with a 10th, but Ian Desmond lined to Reds a 3-2 lead. 
CINCINNATI  — Those two with a couple homers and a cou-home run off Drew Storen, mak-shortstop Edgar Renteria, who Zimmerman, making what is home runs aside, Joey Votto ple walks. It’s such an odd game ing it 4-all. stepped on second for an unas-expected to be his last start of thought he had a pretty lousy sometimes,” Votto said. Votto hit a full-count pitch sisted double play. the season, allowed six hits and day at the plate. Votto has hit longer home from Collin Balester (1-3) into Cueto maintained his NL ERA three runs with one walk and 
He hit a tying shot in the first runs but few as effective. the left-field bleachers to push lead despite allowing a season-six strikeouts in 4 1-3 innings. and led off the 14th inning with “The first home run just the Reds over .500 for the first high nine He had made his second homer to give the scraped out of the ballpark and time since July 3. hits. He gave 25 starts and Cincinnati Reds a 5-4 win over then the last one kind of the The second winning homer of up two runs pitched 161 the Washington Nationals on same thing but I didn’t feel very his career sent the Nationals to and finished 1-3 innings in Sunday. good today.” a sixth straight loss, tying their the day with “It’s a shame there wasn’t his first full 

season high. a 2.05 ERA — a runner in scoring season since 
“It’s a shame there wasn’t a up from the position or we could undergoing runner in scoring position or 2.03 figure he have walked him.” Tommy John we could have walked him,” Na-took into the surgery in Au­tionals manager Davey Johnson game. Cueto gust 2009. 
Davey Johnson 

said. hit two batters Third base-
Nationals manager 

Johnny Cueto and five Reds and walked man Ryan relievers combined for 19 one. Zimmerman, strikeouts, tying the team re-Washington 3 for 25 (.120) cord. Cueto fanned 11 in seven pushed across over his last innings. a run with two six games, 
Bill Bray (4-2) allowed one hit outs in the first on Danny Espi-didn’t start for the Nationals, in the 14th to get the win. nosa’s single. but he tied it in the eighth by 
“We’re always talking about Votto tied it in the first and driving in Espinosa from second picking each other up,” Baker Jay Bruce put the Reds ahead in base with a two-out, pinch-hit said. “The bullpen has picked us the fourth with his 28th homer. single off Aroldis Chapman. up a lot of times. We had a num-The Nationals strung together Werth singled in the ninth in­ber of chances and they had a consecutive inning-opening sin-ning to give the Nationals the number of chances.” gles by Desmond, Jayson Werth lead, but Alonso tied it with his 
Baker, Johnson and Washing-and Rick Ankiel to make it 2-all third homer since being called ton bench coach Pat Corrales all in the fifth. up from Triple-A Louisville on were ejected. Washington starter Jordan July 26. Storen has blown five of 
The Nationals loaded the bas-Zimmerman walked Fred Lewis 39 save opportunities. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO LIVE HERE! 
Beautifully Renovated 4-5bed/2bath Home Walk to Campus! Off of Eddy St. Priced to Rent Quickly!
 Call Mike 615-419-2892 

PERSONAL 
Looking to start bible study group. 
10 lesson premillennial dispensational viewpoint covering entire bible in 1 hour sessions. 
Call Tom 574-876-8928 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don’t go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
I sing of arms and a man, who first from the shores of Troy 
exiled by fate came to Italy and to the Lavinian shores-much was he buffeted on the earth and on 
the sea by the power of the gods, 
on account of the unforgetting 
anger of cruel Juno, much also he suffered in war, until he could 
found a city and carry his gods into Latium-whence the Latin 
race, 

and the Alban fathers and the walls of high Rome. -Vergil 
For instance, I have been carrying on a fight with Monopolated Light 
and Power for some time now. I use their service and pay them 
nothing at all, and they don’t know it. Oh, they suspect that power is being drained off, but they don’t 
know where. All they know is that according to the master meter back there in their power station a hell of a lot of free current is disappearing somewhere into 
the jungle of Harlem. The joke, of course, 
is that I don’t live in Harlem... 
That is why I fight my battle with 
Monopolated Light & Power. 
The deeper reason, I mean: 
It allows me to feel my vital aliveness. 
I also fight them for taking so 
much of my money before I learned to protect myself. -Ralph Ellison 
Every saint has a past. 
Every sinner has a future. 

Monday, August 29, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
MLB 

Greinke leads Brewers in sweep of Chicago 
Associate Press 
MILWAUKEE — Zack Gre­inke came to Milwaukee for the thrill of a playoff race. In­stead, the Brewers are way out in front with just over a month to go. 
Greinke pitched effectively into the eighth inning to remain perfect at home, Corey Hart homered for the second time in as many days and Milwaukee held on to sweep the Chicago Cubs with a 3-2 win Sunday. 
The NL Central-leading Brewers stayed a franchise-best 10½ games ahead of St. Louis after the Cardinals beat Pittsburgh 7-4. Milwaukee and St. Louis play a three-game se­ries at Miller Park beginning Tuesday. 
“The double-digit lead is hard to believe, it seemed like just the other day we were one back. That is weird to see,” Greinke said. “We’re enjoying playing, but nothing’s locked up yet.” 
Greinke (13-5) improved to 10-0 at home as the Brewers kept up their remarkable run. They were in third place on July 25 before winning 27 of 32 overall. 
Milwaukee has won 21 times this month, tying the franchise mark for most victories in a month set in June 1978. 
“They know where we are,” Brewers manager Ron Roe­nicke said. “But their focus is so much on that game, that day, I don’t think we’re worried about where that end is going to come.” 
It became a tense ninth when Tyler Colvin homered off Brew­ers closer John Axford with one out. 
Axford walked Marlon Byrd before getting Alfonso Soriano to hit a warning track flyball for the second out. Third base­man Casey McGehee then mis­played pinch-hitter Reed John­son’s grounder to put two on. 
McGehee bobbled the next ball, too, by pinch-hitter Geo­vany Soto, but recovered to tag out Byrd and give Axford his 40th save this year. 
“It seemed like it was spin­ning for a little while up there,” Axford said. “I’m glad it went in his glove, that’s for sure.” 
Greinke gave up four hits, not allowing any until Byrd’s fifth-inning bloop. In the bottom of the inning, Greinke singled, stole second for the first swipe of his career and scored on Hart’s homer. 
In the eighth, Greinke left with two out and a runner on second for Francisco Rodri­guez, who allowed an RBI dou­ble to Darwin Barney that made it 3-1 before Aramis Ramirez grounded out to end the inning. 
Greinke, the 2009 AL Cy Young winner who was traded from Kansas City in the offsesa­son, extended his franchise-best home start. He has a 2.96 ERA over 12 starts at Miller Park, all wins for the Brewers. 
Milwaukee won for a major-league best 50th time at home this season. 
“That’s a lot of wins. Yeah, the guys continue to play well here,” Roenicke said. “Started again with great pitching from Zack.” 
Just like the day before, the Brewers scored in the first against the Cubs. 
Hart extended his hitting streak to 11 games with a sin­gle, reached second on a sac­rifice bunt and scored on Ryan Braun’s double. 
Greinke’s steal came when Cubs starter Casey Coleman (2-7) never looked over at him. Hart reached safely for the 10th straight plate appearance with his home run to left. 
Greinke struck out seven and walked two. 
“Fastball command was pretty good, but changeup was as good as it’s been and the curve and slider were usable,” Greinke said. “They hit a lot to­ward our guys, and that made it easier.” 
It was another dismal series in Milwaukee for the Cubs, who won their first game at Miller Park this season and lost the final eight. Ramirez’s 16-game hitting streak and Starlin Cas­tro’s career-high 11-game streak ended, but Cubs man­ager Mike Quade didn’t see much of it. He was ejected by plate umpire Bill Miller after Ramirez struck out in the first. 

“I wanted to make sure (Ramirez) didn’t get thrown out,” Quade said. “I didn’t want to get thrown out myself. Ram-my rarely says anything so I just wanted to make sure that Bill wasn’t upset with him, to make sure we had him for nine innings.” 


MLB 

Price sets strikeout record in win over Blue Jays 
“Everything was working off and Shields (2011) for the the fastball. That’s why their Rays’ record. hitters could not get comfort-Price improved to 9-1 with able at all.” a 1.99 ERA in 11 career starts 
Price allowed only three against Toronto. singles and walked two. His Price didn’t give his defense first seven outs all came by a much to do in the first three strikeout, with two hits mixed innings. He did allow a pair of in during that span. baserunners over that span: 
“He’s got great movement,” Mike McCoy led off the first Blue Jays bench coach Don with a walk and Jose Molina Wakamatsu said. “You can get hit a two-out single in the down in the count right away.” second. Neither runner ad-
After leaving the game, vanced. Price wrote a birthday greet-McCoy was the first batter ing for his mother on his hand to make an out on a batted and flashed it for TV camer-ball when he grounded to sec-as. He’d sent her flowers and ond in the third. McCoy, who a card on Friday, but figured walked again in the sixth, was she’d like the win even more. the only Blue Jays batter not 
Rays pitchers set a team to strike out against Price. mark by fanning 18 batters Toronto’s 18 strikeouts were overall. Reliever Brandon a season-high, two more they Gomes struck out two in 1 had in a 3-1 road loss to the 1-3 innings and Cesar Ramos Los Angeles Angels on April struck out two to end it. 10. The franchise record is 
“It’s fun to catch when 19, set twice previously, both you’ve got something like that times in extra-inning games. going,” Jaso said. Jennings put Tampa Bay 
Jennings homered on the ahead right away, connecting first pitch of the game and against Brandon Morrow (9-9) got a career-high four hits. He for the first leadoff home run drove in three runs, scored of his career. three, drew a walk and stole “It’s an early run and gets a base from the leadoff spot. the team up and the pitcher, 

Associated Press center field that made him so Price’s two-seamer started Sean Rodriguez added a especially David, he doesn’t effective, giving his fastball drifting. two-run homer and Matt need many runs,” Jennings TORONTO — David Price extraordinary movement. “It looks like a strike right Joyce doubled twice during said. blew away the Blue Jays. “I’ve never had that much out of his hand and then it’s a six-run ninth as the Rays After John Jaso’s RBI double 
Price struck out a franchise-movement before so it was just fading off the plate,” Jaso improved to an AL-best 20-9 in the second scored B.J. Up-record 14 in seven dominant pretty cool,” Price said. “The explained. “It was moving since July 28. ton, Rodriguez hit a two-run innings, Desmond Jennings wind kept blowing and it was about three feet. Once they The Blue Jays lost their shot into the second deck in hit a pair of solo home runs making my eyes watery all start to swing on his fastball, fourth straight. They finished left. Jennings made it back-to­and the Tampa Bay Rays beat game. I knew it was blowing they can’t hold it back.” with five hits. back homers when he followed Toronto 12-0 on Sunday. pretty good and I just kept Price (12-11) broke the team Price quickly matched his with another drive to left, his 
“Hitting is hard enough al-throwing it.” mark for strikeouts shared career high, striking out 12 first multihomer game. ready,” Rays catcher John Jaso Jaso and Price felt strong by Scott Kazmir and James through five innings. The left-Morrow (9-9) allowed five said. “What David brought to-gusts pushing them as they Shields. hander didn’t fan anyone in runs and six hits in 5 1-3 in-day made it pretty much im-walked in from the bullpen “He had everything work-the sixth, but finished his out-nings. The right-hander has possible.” beforehand, but didn’t know ing today, the changeup, the ing with two more strikeouts given up five homers in his 
It wasn’t just Price’s stuff, how helpful the wind would slider, the backdoor cutter,” in the seventh, matching and past 10 innings. He lost for the but a stiff wind blowing out to be until the game began, and manager Joe Maddon said. then passing Kazmir (2007) fourth time in five starts. 
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Monday, August 29, 2011 
NFL 

Orton, Broncos shake slow start, beat Seattle 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Kyle Orton led Denver back from a shaky start with two touchdown drives and the Broncos’ defense throttled Tarvaris Jackson in a 23-20 win over the Seattle Seahawks on Saturday night. 
Jeff Reed tied it at 20 with a 53-yard field goal with 1:16 left in regulation, but Tim Tebow had a 19-yard scramble in leading the Broncos downfield for Steven Haushka’s 51-yarder as time expired. 
The Broncos (2-1) sacked Jackson five times, with Von Miller getting two and Elvis Dumervil 1½. Dumervil missed all of last season after tearing a chest muscle in training camp shortly after parlaying his 17­sack season into a big contract. The Broncos sputtered without him, and they chose Miller out of Texas A&M with the second overall draft pick in April. 
Miller has three sacks in the preseason. 
The highlight of the night for Seattle (1-2) was Doug Bald­win’s 105-yard kickoff return for a touchdown. All 16 of the previous kickoffs at Sports Au­thority Field this preseason were touchbacks. 
The Broncos’ defense may have had the advantage on the edge, but they have an even bigger hole in the middle of their defense after losing Bro­drick Bunkley to a right knee injury on a chop block by Rob­ert Gallery, and linebacker D.J. Williams to a sprained right elbow. 
Williams has led the Broncos in tackles in three of the last four seasons, and Bunkley is the third run-suffer sidelined in the last two weeks. Ty War­ren recently had triceps sur­gery and is out at least until November. Marcus Thomas has a torn chest muscle that will keep him out until mid- to late-September. 
With Russell Okung out with an ankle injury, the Seahawks’ starting left tackle was Tyler Polumbus, a former Broncos lineman who was engaged with Dumervil in a 1-on-1 drill last summer when Dumervil’s right pectoral muscle snapped during training camp, ending his season. 
Contending with Miller on the other side were two rook­ies: right tackle James Car­penter and right guard John Moffitt. 
It wasn’t much of a contest; Jackson was sacked four times and knocked around plenty more, often getting sand­wiched as he released the ball. 
Seattle’s starters finally scored on their 12th drive of the preseason. But Reed’s 52-yard field goal in the first quarter brought the only points the Seahawks mustered in their first nine drives Sat­urday. Jackson found tight end Dominique Byrd behind Den­ver’s second-string defense for a 1-yard TD connection in the fourth quarter. 
That was Seattle’s first TD by the first string this preseason. In two dozen snaps before half­time, the Seahawks gained just 39 yards. 
Denver’s offense wasn’t the same well-oiled unit it was in the first two preseason games, although Orton did hand a 17-3 lead to Tebow with 5:40 left in the third quarter. 
After the first half ended with Denver leading 10-3 and Matt Prater’s 69-yard field goal coming up short, Orton guided an an eight-play, 93-yard drive on the Broncos’ first posses­sion of the second half, ending it with a 6-yard TD toss to Eric Decker. 


After sputtering for the first three drives, the Broncos took a 7-3 lead on Willis McGahee’s third TD of the preseason, a 2-yard run. Prater later hit a 57-yarder that would have been good from 10-15 yards farther. 
The Broncos had some slop­piness on their second pos­session, which ended with defensive end Chris Clemons’ interception of Orton’s pass in­tended for Brandon Lloyd. 
Denver’s messy play contin­ued on Seattle’s second drive when defensive tackle Kevin Vickerson smacked into cen­ter Max Unger before the snap. On the next play, Williams sprained his right elbow when he tackled Seattle running back Thomas Clayton after a 2-yard gain. 
Denver’s third possession included a 15-yard sack by Marcus Trufant on a corner blitz, something you don’t usu­ally see in the preseason. Min­utes later, Bunkley was chop-blocked by Gallery and left. 
Orton finished 16 of 23 for 236 yards, a touchdown and an interception. Tebow was 6 for 11 for 93 yards. Jackson was 13 of 22 for 93 yards, one TD and five sacks. 
MLB 

Giants lose to Astros, fall back in playoff race 


top of the ninth with a sprained “I thought I was safe. I mean it’s gle off Houston starter Bud Nor-right ankle, sustained sliding into a tough call, bang bang,” DeRosa ris in the seventh to end a 0-for­second on a double. Lee was 3 for said. “You don’t have a choice, you 15 funk, and singled again in the 4 with two doubles. move on. You battle and you’ve ninth but the Giants didn’t score. 
Mark Melancon (7-4) pitched got to put it behind us. We can’t After Huff’s initial hit in the sev­the 10th and got the win despite scoreboard watch because we’ve enth, Norris received a mound allowing Mark DeRosa’s tying got our own bag of issues we’ve visit before giving up Orlando Ca-single. David Carpenter finished got to deal with and we’ve got to brera’s go-ahead sacrifice fly on for his first career save. get the bats going.” the next pitch. 
“It was a big win, especially Houston went ahead 3-2 in the That one-run lead didn’t last to get one late like that,” Downs 10th on pinch-hitter Jason Mi-long. said. “It’s easy to get frustrated chaels’ double, then the Giants Norris, pitching back home in when you blow a lead, but we came back again. the Bay Area, had only allowed didn’t. We kept battling like it was Jordan Schafer lined a tying one runner to reach second base just a part of the game.” RBI single to right with two outs before the Giants got to him for 
The reigning World Series in the eighth against Cain to help two runs in the seventh. Sando­champions fell four games behind force extra innings. val drew a one-out walk to start the first-place Diamondbacks in The reeling Giants failed to things off. Brandon Belt singled the NL West race after Arizona string together their first three-to bring up Huff, whose struggles beat the Padres 6-1. The D-backs game winning streak since July have some fans and skeptics call-come to town Friday for a key 17-19 at San Diego. They haven’t ing for Bochy to sit him for an ex-weekend series. had a winning home series in tended period. 
On bring your dog day at AT&T five sets since taking two of three Cain, the Giants’ hard-luck Park, the Giants continued to from Milwaukee from July 22-24. loser for years now, has only experience the dog days. More San Francisco has played eight two wins in his last nine starts. missed chances. straight games decided by two or The two-time All-Star struck out Associated Press tros beat the stumbling Giants They also argued that one fewer runs. pinch-hitter Jason Bourgeois 4-3 on Sunday to salvage a four-chance was taken from them. “This is a tough loss, no getting with the go-ahead run on first for 
SAN FRANCISCO — The San game split. DeRosa singled with one out in around it. We came back a couple the second out of the eighth, then Francisco Giants are losing to “We’ve got to win, that’s all the 10th off Melancon, but was times,” Bochy said. “As I’ve said, gave up Schafer’s tying single. teams out of contention. They’re we’ve got to do,” pitcher Matt Cain thrown out trying to stretch it to we have to score some runs for Cain has received the lowest losing at home. Great pitching ef-said. a double. He slid past the bag and these guys.” run support in the majors since forts are being wasted. To win, they must score more reached back with his left hand, The Giants couldn’t capitalize his first full season in 2006. 
All those things are cause for runs. and replays showed he appeared in the eighth after getting con-Keppinger, acquired by the Gi­concern as the reigning World Jose Altuve got things going to be safe. secutive two-out singles by Jeff ants on July 19 from Houston, was Series champions approach the with a one-out double against DeRosa jumped up to yell at Keppinger and Carlos Beltran off 8 for 26 with three RBIs against final month. Ramon Ramirez (2-3) and Downs second-base umpire Dan Bellino Wilton Lopez. Wesley Wright re-his former team — including 5 for 
Matt Downs delivered a go-followed with a single up the mid-and manager Bruce Bochy was lieved and retired Pablo Sandoval 14 this series. ahead single with one out in the dle. Altuve was forced into action ejected for the second time this on a grounder. Astros manager Brad Mills had 11th inning and the Houston As-after slugger Carlos Lee left in the year. Aubrey Huff hit a tying RBI sin-seen enough. 
Monday, August 29, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
Hall 
continued from page 16 
extra period, with North Car­olina recording the only two shots of overtime and convert­ing on the second with just five minutes left to play. 
If Friday night’s loss had a disappointing finish though, Sunday’s 3-1 loss to No. 21 Duke was lacking from begin­ning to end, according to Wal­drum. 
“[Sunday] was a complete 180 [from Friday]. We abso­lutely did not show up, period,” Waldrum said. “I don’t neces­sarily have an explanation for it. Our stars and leaders just didn’t show up. We deserve to win but we didn’t walk in to play from the whistle. We’ve got some work to do now. But like I said, it’s good to play these games earlier on in the year, so now we know that we have a lot to work on.” 
One of the coach’s biggest concerns with the team’s play against Duke was the shortage of scoring opportunities. The Blue Devils held a 15-11 edge over the Irish in total shots, and a significant 9-2 advantage in shots on goal. In fact, Notre Dame’s only goal was scored in inadvertent fashion, with a clearance by Duke goalkeeper Tara Campbell bouncing off the face of senior midfielder Brynn Gerstle and rolling back into the empty goal. 
“We did not create enough scoring chances, especially against Duke,” Waldrum said. “It’s about being efficient, and we just didn’t create enough chances. Our attacking players just have to do better at that. That’s their job. I mean Melissa Henderson only had one shot on goal today. We can’t have that.” 
Though the unusual goal gave Notre Dame the 1-0 lead at halftime, Duke charged back with a second half run, netting three goals in less than 12 minutes. Not only suffer­ing from a lack of offense, the Irish were less than effective all over the field. according to their coach. 
“These kids are dynamite players, but we just didn’t give ourselves enough oppor­tunities. We had a couple of mistakes on Friday night and [North Carolina] capitalized on those and punished us for them. They were solvable. But today they were all over the field.” 
The last time the Irish lost two consecutive games was nearly two years ago, a pair of 2-0 defeats to Santa Clara and then-No. 3 Stanford Sept. 12 and 13, 2009. Nevertheless, Waldrum remains optimistic for the remainder of the year. 
“It’s not the end of the world. It’s not the end of the season. We lost to two good teams,” Waldrum said. “But some­where along the line we’re go­ing to have to beat good teams. But I believe in the team and think this is the right kind of year. “ 
The Irish will return home for the Notre Dame adidas In­vitational, where they will take on Tulsa at 7:30 p.m. Friday night, followed by Indiana at 
1:30 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
NFL 

Brees carries New Orleans to easy win over Raiders, Campbell 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. — There’s nothing like a trip to Oakland to get Drew Brees ready for the regular season. 
Brees threw for 189 yards and led New Orleans to scores on all three drives he played in the Saints’ 40-20 victory over the Oakland Raiders on Sunday night. 
Brees completed 15 of 23 passes and looked almost as sharp as he did in his last trip to Oakland when he led three touchdown drives in his only series of a 45-7 victory two years ago in the third exhi­bition game. The Saints used that regular-season dress re­hearsal to go on and win their first 13 games and win the first Super Bowl title in fran­chise history. 
The big difference in this year’s meeting was the Raid­ers’ first-team offense looked much better than it did two years with JaMarcus Russell at quarterback. Jason Camp­bell completed 12 of 17 passes for 150 yards and a touch­down, capping his first drive with a 35-yard scoring strike to Derek Hagan. 
Hagan, signed during train­ing camp, has become one of Oakland’s most reliable re­ceivers this summer, catching six passes for 121 yards this game. Rookie Taiwan Jones also shined in his exhibition debut, running for 81 yards and a touchdown and catch­ing two passes for 18 yards. 
Campbell also drove the Raiders to a 57-yard field goal by Sebastian Janikowski and had Oakland in position for another score before Jona­thon Amaya’s interception in the end zone on a deflected pass on the second-to-last play of the first half. 
Brees’ night was already over at that point, doing more than enough in his three drives to allow coach Sean Payton to turn it over to Chase Daniel and the backups. 
Brees was clicking right from the start, finding Devery Henderson on a 37-yard pass over rookie DeMarcus Van Dyke on the first play from scrimmage. Brees targeted Van Dyke three more times in that drive with rookie Mark Ingram capping it with a 1-yard TD run. Ingram fired the ball at the Black Hole sign in the back of the end zone after scoring his third touch­down of the preseason. 
After Hagan’s touchdown tied it, Brees went 4 for 6 for 60 yards on his second drive with Pierre Thomas finish­ing it with a 1-yard leap into the end zone. Brees had good chemistry going with tight end Jimmy Graham, who caught five passes for 73 yards. 
The Raiders finally got Brees in check on the third drive after New Orleans moved it to the Oakland 15. Three straight incompletions led to a 33-yard field goal by Garrett Hartley and ended Brees’ night with the Saints on top 17-7. 
Oakland took the lead with Janikowski’s second 57-yard field goal of the preseason late in the first half, rookie Taiwan Jones’ 22-yard touch­down run on the opening drive of the third quarter and then another field goal by Janikowski later in the third quarter. 
Chase Daniel threw a 3-yard touchdown pass to Tory Hum­phrey midway through the third to put the Saints back on top 24-20. The drive was helped by a 32-yard pass to Joique Bell and roughing the passer penalty on Bruce Davis on the same play. 
Bell also had a 60-yard re­ception that set up a 1-yard TD run and Adrian Arrington caught a 39-yard TD pass from Daniel to make it 40-20. 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Monday, August 29, 2011 
Clark 
continued from page 16 
followed by near miss. 
“There were a lot of shots, and we just couldn’t put the fi­nal finish on any of the shots,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “I thought it was an exciting game and … it was a fun game to watch. It would have been a lot [more fun] if we had gotten the W.” 
In the game’s early minutes, the teams traded possession in the midfield area, with both the Irish and the No. 15 Hoosiers struggling to keep control of the ball, let alone generate any kind of offense. 
In the 31st minute, junior forward Ryan Finley came off the bench to make his Irish de­but. Last year’s ACC Offensive Player of the Year with Duke, the transfer immediately pro­vided a spark for Notre Dame. In his first two minutes on the field, Finley had the game’s best scoring chance up to that point. 
“[Finley] did very well, he was inches off getting a cou­ple of goals,” Clark said. “I think he was excellent.” 
In the final 12 minutes of the first half, the Irish pep­pered the Hoosiers with shots, nearly cashing in on a couple of goals. Senior midfielder Brendan King curved a ball off the post in the 33rd min­ute, only moments before the Hoosier keeper corralled a header by sophomore forward Harry Shipp. 
The last gasp of the Irish flurry came shortly thereaf­ter, when senior midfielder Adam Mena directed a header past a charging Indiana keep­er that sailed inches wide of the open net. The Irish outshot Indiana 24-11 for the game, as senior goalkeeper Will Walsh totaled five saves to earn the shutout. 
“It’s frustrating at the end of the day, but when you think about it, we played some bril­liant soccer tonight,” Mena said. “We focused on trying to play our game and just connecting passes and play­ing the way we know how to play, and there are spurts in the game where we played re­ally, really well. But the ball just wasn’t bouncing for us tonight, goal wise. I know we outplayed them for sure.” 
The Irish had their share of scoring opportunities in the second half as well, but as the game neared the 110th min­ute, the Irish faded away. 
“I was a little bit disap­pointed, in the overtime,” Clark said. “I think we let it slip out, but maybe we were getting tired.” 
Still, the Irish showed enough promise to keep Clark optimistic moving forward. 
“Obviously, we’ve got to stick the ball in the net,” Clark said. “But I think if we can play with the same com­posure … I think we’ll be ok. In all my years here playing Indiana that’s by far the most we’ve ever dominated for long periods of the game, so I’m quite pleased with that. There were periods where our con­necting the ball, connecting passes was superb.” 
Another highlight for the Irish was the play of junior de­fender Grant Van De Casteele, who played the entire game after logging limited minutes in the preseason following in­jury. 
“For me, the man of the match is Grant van de Castelle. Grant was fantastic there at the back,” Clark said. “He and [senior defender] Aaron Maund really just mopped up everything. He was fantastic, he was just so good.” 
Notre Dame travels to the adidas/IU Credit Union Clas-sic in Bloomington, Ind., for with a win under their belt, way boss teaches us how to its next set of contests. The the Irish remain focused and play, and everything will take Irish will face Dayton Friday confident. care of itself,” Mena said. and Saint Louis Sunday. “[We need to] just keep our 


Although they would have heads up and play the way we Contact Joseph Monardo at liked to enter the tournament know how to play, play the jmonardo@nd.edu 

Brown 
continued from page 16 
home helped prepare her team for what will likely be a much tougher match against Stanford Friday. 
“We need to walk into that gym with some confidence,” 
Matsuzak 
continued from page 16 
her five-over performance. Senior Jessica Laymen came in at third with an 81, barely besting Brown. 
This match marked the first collegiate competition for the Saint Mary’s fresh­men, as Janice Heffernan led the way for the class of 2015 with a 93 placing 12th in the Brown said of the Cardinal gym in Palo Alto, Calif. “We know that the teams we beat this weekend are not of the same caliber as Stanford, but [the invitational] was good to get to know some of our weaknesses and discover that will to win.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
competition. 
Juniors Cara Kielty and Jessica Kinnick rounded out the Belles’ score eligible players. Kielty carded an 89, while Kinnick shot a 98. 
The Belles will be off for two weeks until they host the O’Brien National Invitation­al, which will take place Sep­tember 11 and 12 at Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Joe wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 




 ____________________ 
Monday, August 29, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Southern Discomfort 
Defending champions drop pair of games in North Carolina, fall to 1-2 this season 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
The defending national champions return from a dis­appointing weekend in North Carolina with their first pair of consecutive losses since September 2009, one a hard-fought overtime battle with No. 3 North Carolina and the other a 3-1 defeat at the hands of the Blue Devils. 
Though Friday night’s game against North Carolina ended in a 2-1 loss for the No. 1 Irish, it was not for a lack of opportu­nities. The Irish controlled play for the majority of the game, statistically besting North Car­olina with an 11-9 edge in total shots, 8-4 in shots on goal and 5-2 in corner kicks. 
Persistent on the attack, the Irish offense pressured the Tar Heel goalkeeper to record a career-high seven saves. 
“I was really pleased with the way we played Friday night,” Waldrum said. “I thought it was unlucky we didn’t get the win, but at least we walked away with a tie. Overall I was disappointed with losing, but pleased with our play.” 
Though the Tar Heels took the lead in the 20th minute, the Irish maintained their compo­sure. The squad almost evened the score with quick passing from sophomore forward Adri­ana Leon to senior defender Jessica Schuveiller to senior forward Melissa Henderson, who snuck the ball past the goalie. Unfortunately an off­side call negated the score. 
Soon after, sophomore mid­fielder Rebecca Twining fired from point-blank range, but the Tar Heel keeper managed to slap it away at the last sec­ond. Finally Notre Dame’s ef­forts paid off, as junior defend­er Jazmin Hall scored her first collegiate goal in the 71st min­ute, firing high into the corner of the net to send the game into overtime. 
But the tides turned in the 
see HALL/page 13 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

ND begins season perfect after Shamrock Invitational 
By CORY BERNARD bie Brown said she was relieved good,” she said. “It played a think it really shows our depth “She definitely has continued Sports Writer to finally see her team in action. huge part for us in the victo-that almost everyone was in ac-to improve,” Brown said. “Put­
“It’s great to finally be play-ries. We also served pretty well. tion.” ting up the numbers she did, 
On the heels of a disappoint-ing other teams,” she said. “We Those were two pretty big posi-Individually, sophomore out-even just her kills-per-game av­ing season by program stan-learned quite a bit about our tives.” side hitter Andrea McHugh erage, it was just phenomenal dards, the Irish have begun team.” The depth of this year’s team stole the show, recording dou-all-around. I think the experi­the 2011 season in style, open-Though the invitational is also encouraged Brown. She ble-digit kills and digs in each ence of playing in the Junior ing 3-0 for the first time since only a preseason tournament, said most of her roster con-of the first three games of the Volleyball World Championship 2006. Hosting the Shamrock the wins may still play a part tributed, and all but one of season. After being named the was really good for her confi-Invitational over the weekend, in NCAA tournament seeding the freshmen gained valuable AVCA Northeast Region Fresh-dence. Overall, I’m very pleased Notre Dame defeated Eastern should Notre Dame be in the game-time experience. man of the Year, as well as with what she’s been able to Michigan Friday, Idaho Satur-mix nationally. In the string of “We were able to play 12 peo-All-Big East Freshman of the do.” day and Butler Sunday, each by victories, Brown said two ar-ple on our roster over the week-Year last season, Brown said According to Brown, opening a count of three sets to one. eas of the game in particular end,” Brown said. “It’s good to McHugh has begun her sopho-with three victories at 
After weeks of intra-squad caught her attention. get everyone some experience, more campaign as an even scrimmaging, Irish coach Deb-“I thought our passing was especially early in the season. I more confident player. see BROWN/page 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish tie first game with Indiana 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Saturday’s regular sea­son opener for the Irish was played to a soundtrack of the infamous, buzzing vuvuzelas, which were handed out to students at the gates. But not even an Alumni Stadium re­cord attendance of over 3,000 could spur Notre Dame to vic­tory, as the Irish battled In­diana to a scoreless overtime tie. 
Although neither team was able to break onto the score­board, the No. 9 Irish failed to capitalize on a number of op­portunities, as near miss was 
see CLARK/page 14 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Irish junior midfielder Dillon Powers handles the ball during Notre Dame’s 0-0 tie with Indiana on Saturday. 
SMC GOLF 
Belles fall to Bethel in home season-opener 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles opened up their 2011 fall campaign Satur­day at Notre Dame’s War­ren Golf Course with a loss to cross-town rival Bethel College. The Pilots, who finished last season with a top-five ranking in the NAIA coaches poll, turned in a strong performance to take down the Belles 318 to 348. 
Despite the loss, the Belles recorded strong perfor­mances from seniors Chris­tine Brown and Natalie Ma­tuszak, who shot 82 and 84 respectively on the par-71 layout. Brown led the Saint Mary’s squad with a fourth place finish in the contest. 
Blustery conditions caused scores to be slightly higher overall, but that did not stop Bethel from reg­istering the three lowest scores of the day. Sopho­mores Erin DeVries and Kaelyn Lingenfelter led the way for the Pilots shooting a 77 and 78 respectively with DeVries taking individual medalist honors for 
see MATSUZAK/page 14 





