
Monday, November 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 24, Wake Forest 17 
Wake-up call 
A defensive adjustment and a power running game lead the Irish to a 24-17 victory 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
— Against a brand-new op­ponent in the smallest venue Notre Dame had played in since 1945, everything seemed different for the Irish. Yet it was a familiar statement that spurred Notre Dame (6-3) to a 24-17 victory over Wake For­est on a chilly night in BB&T Field. 
“[Irish coach Brian] Kelly talked about it at halftime: playing like champions,” se­nior running back Jonas Gray said. “Champions grind out. They have grind-out games where everything may not be going the right way and you come together as a team and you can count on each other to make adjustments and get the victory.” 
While the Demon Deacons (5-4) gave the Irish all they could handle in front of the over-capacity crowd of 36,307, Notre Dame battled back in a manner that pleased Kelly and adhered to his mantra. 
“We have a sign that says ‘Play Like A Champion,’ and to play like a champion, you have to play consistently,” Kelly said. “You can’t have spurts. Tonight was a great step in that direction.” 

Sophomore Wake Forest quarterback Tanner Price led the Deacons to a hot start on the opening possession, find­ing open receiver after open quarter.” ception on a “flea-flicker” trick to a nickel package. something Coach Kelly’s really receiver on the way to an early One of those adjustments play designed to find senior “They completed some pass-emphasized,” Golic said. “Any­7-0 lead. was a renewed focus on a receiver Michael Floyd down-es, but we kept the ball in front time you get to see Jonas and 
“I just think they executed smashmouth running game, field. of us and didn’t give up the big [junior running back Cierre very well,” Kelly said. “They as the Irish ran the ball 22 “It’s kind of hit-or-miss play,” Kelly said. “[We] made it Wood] and those guys going attacked some things and we times in the second half for sometimes, but I’ve got to do very difficult for Wake Forest off, it makes the O-line feel re-had to make some adjustments 105 yards. better than that,” Rees said. to run, and then it became, for ally good.” to it. They are a well-coached “The coaches did a great The Deacons’ threat was us, the ability to get after the For his part, Jonas Gray said football team.” job making adjustments in the short-lived, as just three plays quarterback, so we knew the he enjoyed being able to close 
While the Irish would battle second half, just sticking to later, senior safety Harrison ball was going to be thrown.” out the game. back and tie the game at 10-10 the stuff that worked,” Gray Smith forced a fumble recov-As the Irish took a one-pos-“I wanted to make sure that at the end of the first quarter, said. “When it came down to ered by senior cornerback session lead into the fourth I had a hand in finishing the Wake Forest was able to seize it, short-yardage situations, Gary Gray. quarter, Kelly went to the game. That’s what it came a 17-10 lead less than 30 sec-they put it in my hands, [and] “Our defense came up and ground, calling runs on 14 down to,” he said. “Our line­onds before halftime on the the linemen did a great job made a huge play for us,” Rees of Notre Dame’s 15 fourth-men did a great job blocking strength of a two-yard scor-blocking up front. said. “That was kind of a turn-quarter plays to grind out the up front. Our receivers did a ing plunge from running back “We knew we had to be ing point in the game.” game. great job blocking on the pe-Josh Harris. physical in the second half.” Kelly said he was encour- “It’s who we are and this rimeter, and Coach Kelly did a 
At halftime, however, Kelly That mentality paid off as aged by that sequence of plays, football team obviously takes great job dialing in plays.” and the coaching staff made Notre Dame scored on each of as the turnovers that have so on an identity,” Kelly said. With his Irish bowl-eligible a number of adjustments that its first two possessions in the often cost the Irish this year “They’ve run the ball effective-with three games remaining, would prove timely in the sec-second half, retaking control did not do so this week. ly all year. Again, when you’re Kelly said the program has fi­ond half, as Harris’ touchdown of the contest and never look-“We can overcome those on the road and you’re playing nally started to show signs of and the ensuing extra point ing back, In doing so, Notre things,” Kelly said. “It’s the good competition, you’ve got to responding to his overall mis-would be the last points the Dame established the final 24-mistakes that we’ve had in close the game out and we did sion. Deacons would earn all game. 17 margin of victory. the red zone, the fumbling the a great job closing it out run-“We’re on the right track. … 
“Our coaches do a great job “[That was] huge. It just football, and those things. We ning the ball.” The guys know what they’re of making adjustments and gets the momentum back,” did not beat ourselves today.” Senior center Mike Golic Jr., playing for,” Kelly said. “We’ve settling the guys down,” Kelly Irish sophomore quarterback After struggling to contain who entered the game after been trying to build this and said. “We’re working hard at Tommy Rees said. “It put our Price and the Wake Forest aer-senior center Braxston Cave it’s starting to come and you halftime. There’s a lot going on defense in a position where we ial attack in the first quarter, left with an injury, said he and can see it and that’s why I’m and I just think we do a pretty weren’t playing from behind.” the Notre Dame defense shut his fellow offensive linemen proud of my guys tonight.” good job as a staff of getting Wake Forest had an oppor-the Deacons out in the second enjoyed closing the game out. our guys focused on what tunity to knot the game back half, aided in large part by a “The O-linemen always want Contact Allan Joseph at needs to happen in the third up when Rees threw an inter-switch from a base 3-4 defense to pound the rock, and that’s ajoseph2@nd.edu 


player of the game 
Jonas Gray Notre Dame running back 
Gray rushed for 92 yards and one touchdown. He paced the rushing attack as Notre Dame controlled the second-half time of possession. 


stat of the game 
100 second-half yards 
The Irish defense allowed zero points and 100 yards in the second half of the team’s first second-half comeback under Brian Kelly. 

play of the game 
Running back Brandon Pendergrass’ third-quarter fumble in the red zone 
Five minutes after the Irish jumped ahead 24-17, they recovered a Pendergrass fumble at the Notre Dame 11-yard line. 


quote of the game 
“The words I would use? Gritty. Tough. You’ve got to win games like this where it’s just a gritty, tough performance.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 7, 2011 
report card 



C+ B+ B+ A A­B A­A­A-
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees continues to make mind-boggling throws that of­ten result in Irish turnovers, with Sat­urday’s flea-flicker attempt serving as the perfect example. 
running backs: Jonas Gray and Cierre Wood rushed for 92 and 87 yards, re­spectively. Most of the damage came in the second half with the Irish leading and trying to chew the clock. 
receivers: The receiving corps had a couple of nice blocks to help spring the running game. Michael Floyd and Tyler Eifert made some big plays, but no one has emerged behind them. 
offensive line: The  Irish have not al­lowed a sack in 183 pass attempts, dating back to Sept. 24. Mike Golic Jr. filled in admirably for the injured Braxston Cave as the line dominated the second half. 
defensive line: Despite starting two freshmen and a sophomore, Notre Dame’s defensive line anchored the de­fense, holding Wake Forest to 3.0 yards per carry. 
linebackers: Carlo Calabrese was out of position as Brandon Pendergrass scored on a wheel route in the first quarter, but the unit helped solidify the defense in the second half. 
defensive backs: Gary Gray and Robert Blanton made some excellent open-field tackles, as is typical with Notre Dame’s cornerback tandem. Wake Forest passed for only 187 yards in the game. 
special teams: Ben Turk has quietly performed very well for the Irish lately. George Atkinson and Austin Collinsworth gave the offense good field position, but the punt returns are still ineffective. 
coaching: The coaching staff made a key move at halftime by replacing Prince Shembo with Jamoris Slaughter, sparking a strong half from the defense en route to victory. 
overall: By no means was it a com­
plete game, but the Irish went on the road and beat a team it should beat. 
3.43 There are still problems, starting with the quarterback position. 

adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame has won four consecu­tive games in November, dating backto last season. 

4 
13 
The Irish have allowed only 13 third-quarter points in nine games this sea­
son. 
Wake Forest converted only three of its 10 attempts on third down in theloss. The Irish were 6-of-12. 

3 
6 
Irish senior running back Jonas Gray hasscored a touchdown in six consecutive games, totaling nine during that stretch. 

David Ruffer made a 41-yard field goalin the first quarter, a season-high for 
the senior kicker. 

41 
The Irish defense held the Deacons to 110 rushing yards on 37 carries for a 3.0 
average. 
3.0 
WINSTOM-SALEM, N.C. — Throughout Saturday’s first half, it looked to be Syracuse all over again. A repeat of Connecticut. The Naval Academy refrain we’ve heard three times in the last five years. It was a game Notre Dame should win, but was setting itself up to lose. 
But some­where along the line, the Irish not only Douglas Farmer realized they were supposed Editor-in-Chief to win this one, but also that they should, could and would win. 

“Tonight was a great step playing on the road against good competi­tion, down at halftime, coming back a couple of times,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said following the 24­17 victory. “That’s resolve. That’s toughness. That’s gritty.” 
That’s what Notre Dame has lacked for at least the last four years, if not the last 15. But it’s also only the first of two crucial steps for the Irish. 
Finally, Notre Dame is winning the games it is supposed to win. Yes, the season-opening loss to South Florida was unacceptable, but the other two losses in the last 13 games — at Michigan and to USC — are relatively understand­able, though still not desirable. 
Notre Dame has needed to win the games it is supposed to win, not lose to Tulsa, not hand a victory to Denard Robinson at Notre Dame Stadium and not let Navy run the same play over and over again. On Saturday the Irish did manage the win, just as they did at Pittsburgh a few weeks ago, just as they should do “at” Maryland next week. 
“We’re playing for a consistent performance,” Kelly said. “To play like a champion, you have to play consistently. You can’t have spurts.” 
Consistency is the first step, a vital step. Now that the Irish have found that, the time has come to make the next step: Dominating the games they should win. 
Letting a middling-ACC team hang around late into the fourth quarter is not the mark of a com­plete squad. Letting Pittsburgh (who lost to Kelly’s former employ­er, Cincinnati, this weekend) push the game to its closing minutes is not the mark of a Notre Dame team ready to “Play Like A Champion.” Coming out flat in the season-open­er, and then again in the biggest game of the year two weeks ago, is not the mark of a focused, moti­vated team. 
Rather, these are the marks of a team still hoping for wins. These are the marks of a team looking at a big picture, instead of each week’s task. These are the marks of an atmosphere still escaping a prevailing losing mentality. 
Hence, that first step was the most important step. Maryland and Boston College are, far and away, the two weakest teams on Notre Dame’s schedule this year. Notre Dame should win both games. The Irish should know they should win both games. 
And they should do so hand­ily. Dominate the teams you are expected to beat. That is what good football teams do. 
“I want winning to become a habit,” Kelly said in his weekly Sunday teleconference. “I don’t want it to be something that comes and goes. We want to get to that level where we expect to win each and every week. That’s something that we’re not there yet, but we’re on that journey. That’s about play­ing consistently, as well, not having any games that you don’t play your best.” 
If Notre Dame plays its best every week, winning will rarely be an is­sue. The Irish played down to Pitts­burgh’s and Wake Forest’s levels. Let’s not even get started with what they did against South Florida. 
Instead, the gold helmets who showed up at West Lafayette, Ind., need to become a weekly occur­rence — and no, I am not simply calling for the return of the tradi­tional painted gold helmets. I am calling for a team that insists on dominating its lesser opponents, not simply beating them. 
“As we continue to check off a lot of the boxes, the next one is to make winning a habit,” Kelly said Sunday. 
Having won 10 out of the last 13 overall, winning is nearly habitual once again in South Bend. Now it needs to become good-looking too. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






Irish find consistency, need domination 

Monday, November 7, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Third-quarter play secures victory 

By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. – Head­ing into halftime Saturday, Wake Forest had done to the Irish ex­actly what USC did two weeks ago: Run the ball down Notre Dame’s throat. 
The Demon Deacons needed 22 carries to gain 90 yards, but along with the hard-nosed foot­ball came a 17-10 lead. 
“I just think they executed very well,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said following his team’s eventual 24­17 victory. “They attacked some things and we had to make some adjustments to it.” 
By adjustments, Kelly meant continue a season-long trend of Notre Dame third-quarter domi­nance. The Irish have now out­scored their opponents 63-13 in the 15 minutes following half­time, and seven of the points giv­en up came on a USC defensive touchdown. 
“We have a game plan coming in, and we execute that the first half,” Irish senior captain and safety Harrison Smith said. “Judg­ing on what they do, our coaches make adjustments. That’s really where it starts — our coaches make great adjustments at half­time.” 
This week’s adjustments led to Notre Dame holding Wake Forest to 20 rushing yards on 15 sec­ond-half carries. Meanwhile, the two-headed Irish rushing attack of junior Cierre Wood and senior Jonas Gray led the way for 105 second-half yards on 22 carries, including runs on Notre Dame’s last 11 non-victory formation of­fensive snaps. 

“It’s who we are and this foot­ball team obviously takes on an identity,” Kelly said of the second half’s physical nature. “When you’re on the road and you’re playing good competition, you have to close the game out and we did a great job closing it out run­ning the ball.” 
Gray’s and Wood’s stats jumped thanks to Notre Dame’s lead in the fourth quarter, and Wake For­est’s rushing stats declined for the same reason. Yet the Deacons still ran the ball 15 times in the second half, for a disappointing 
1.33 yards per carry. 
Oddly enough, an adjustment geared toward slowing the Wake Forest passing attack led to the shutdown of the running game as well. Irish defensive coordina­tor Bob Diaco substituted senior safety Jamoris Slaughter for soph­omore linebacker Prince Shembo in an attempt to stop Deacons’ sophomore quarterback Tanner Price from finding such good luck with short routes. 
“We played a nickel defense pretty much the whole second half — Jamoris Slaughter went in for Prince Shembo and did a great job,” Kelly said. “I thought that really helped us close down some of the bubble throws, some of the quick throws, which had been hurting us.” 
Slaughter’s appearance as a pseudo-linebacker follows the trend of his career, where he has also started as a safety and spent significant playing time as a cor­nerback. 
“Jamoris is just one of those guys who can kind of do it all,” Smith said. “He knows everything that goes on in the defense and he knows how to play any position you put him at … He’s not even the biggest safety on the team. That’s his mindset. He’ll make the im­pact, instead of be impacted.” 
With Slaughter slowing the pass, suddenly Notre Dame’s de­fensive line — consisting of two freshmen and a sophomore — had time to pressure Price, and the Irish were set from there on out, according to Kelly. 
“We kept the ball in front of us and didn’t give up the big play,” Kelly said. “We made it very dif­ficult for Wake Frost to run, and then it became, for us, the ability to get after the quarterback, be­cause we knew the ball was going to be thrown.” 
These factors — the adjust­ments, Slaughter and the in­creased presence of Gray and Wood — led to Notre Dame do­ing to Wake Forest in the third quarter just what the Deacons had done to the Irish in the first half: running the ball down their throats to the tune of two touch­downs. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 




Irish excel in win over Wake Forest 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — While BB&T Field was the smallest venue in which the Irish had played in decades, Saturday’s attendance was one of the biggest in Wake Forest history. The crowd of 36,307 was the fourth-larg­est crowd in the history of the field. 
“They play with great atmosphere,” senior running back Jonas Gray said. “[Running backs coach Tim Hinton] talked throughout the week about how he coached at Cincinnati where it was 37,000 fans — it wasn’t a great at­mosphere all the time but those were trap games, when you don’t come out and you come out flat. 

“The good thing for us again was to come out in the second half, continue the momentum and we knew we’d come out with a victory.” 
Rees passes Bertelli 
With his two touchdown passes Sat­urday, sophomore quarterback Tom­my Rees surpassed Angelo Bertelli for seventh all-time in Notre Dame histo­ry. Rees now has 29 touchdown pass­es in his career. Seventeen of those scores have come this season, good enough for the seventh-best single-season performance in school history. 
Gray keeps scoring 
After a one-yard touchdown run in the third quarter, senior running back Jonas Gray has now scored at least one rushing touchdown in each of the last six games. The last Irish running back to accomplish that feat was Ryan Grant in 2002. Gray’s feat is all the more surprising considering his touchdown against Pittsburgh six weeks ago was the first score of his career. 
“The guys did a great job blocking up front,” Gray said. “On that run, all I did was just beat the guys with speed that came through the outside, and the rest was pretty much — John Goodman made a great block — then I tried to get in the end zone.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
NDWF  1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total    10 0 14  0 24   10 7 0 0 17  
First quarter Wake Forest 7, Notre Dame 0 Brandon Pendergrass 20-yd pass  from  Tanner  

Price (Jimmy Newman kick) with 10:52 remainingDrive: 8 plays, 70 yards, 4:08 elapsed 
Wake Forest 7, Notre Dame 3 
David Ruffer 44-yd field goal with 6:15 remaining
Drive: 10 plays, 28 yards, 4:28 elapsed 
Wake Forest 10, Notre Dame 3 

Jimmy Newman 46-yd field goal with 4:07 remain­ingDrive: 4 plays, 4 yards, 1:58 elapsed 
Wake Forest 10, Notre Dame 10 
Tyler Eifert 38-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 3:38 remainingDrive: 2 plays, 50 yards, 0:23 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Wake Forest 17, Notre Dame 10 
Josh Harris 2-yd run (Jimmy Newman kick) with 
0:28remainingDrive: 11 plays, 81 yards, 4:49 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Wake Forest 17, Notre Dame 17 
Jonas Gray 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 12:54remainingDrive: 6 plays, 62 yards, 1:58 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Wake Forest 17 
Michael Floyd 16-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 9:04 remainingDrive: 6 plays, 65 yards, 2:22 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession passing 



Rees            14-23-166 Price                  17-24-187 
rushing 

Gray                    19-92  Pendergrass         17-47 Wood    14-87 Givens          4-39 Rees        2-2 
receiving 

FloydEifert                       5-44  Campanaro      3-60 Givens    6-74           6-57  
JonesGoodman        3-16 Pendergrass       1-17  Ford                    2-29    1-16  
Wood                        1-17  Parker    1-15  
Riddick                        1-12  Reynolds    1--4  

tackling 

Smith                           11  Jackson 8 Blanton           10 Bush 8 
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 7, 2011 


Grit and guts 
On the road for the first time in over a month, the Irish struggled to find a rhythm early in their first-ever meeting with Wake Forest. The Demon Deacons scored on their first drive and took a 17-10 lead into the locker rooms at halftime, but Notre Dame had the final word. The Irish scored two touchdowns in the third quarter and did not allow any points in the second half. Notre Dame improved to 6-3 on the season with three regular season games remaining in 2011. Jonas Gray and Cierre Wood led the Irish offense with a combined 179 rushing yards and one touchdown. 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 



JULIE HERDER/The Observer EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Irish running back Cierre Wood carries the ball through an open gap; running back Jonas Gray breaks a tackle; receiver T.J. Jones snares a pass near the sideline; kick returner Austin Collinsworth runs away from Deacon defenders; tight end Tyler Eifert makes a catch as a Wake Forest defender tries to tackle him. 


