the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


SUB announces spring concert lineup 
Of A Revolution to headline, hip-hop artist Chiddy Bang to open at annual event April 8 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
The Student Union Board (SUB) announced Monday 
O.A.R. (Of A Revolution) and Chiddy Bang will perform at the highly anticipated April 8 spring concert. 
“Our main goal for this year was to find a nationally famous headliner who would appeal to the most number of students at Notre Dame,” SUB concert programmer James Hesburgh said. “We also wanted an artist who would give a great live performance. Just because an artist is in the top-10 of iTunes doesn’t mean they are good live per­formers.” 
Recognized as one of the country’s best live bands, 
O.A.R. began in a basement in Rockville, Md., in 1996 and exploded as a popular band on college campuses. The hip-hop duo, made-up of emcee Chiddy and DJ and producer Xaphoon Jones, will open for the band. The group recently received attention on MTV and in performer Kanye West’s blog. 
SUB will sell 1,000 tickets for the concert Friday in the LaFortune Box Office begin­ning at 12 p.m., Hesburgh said. One hundred extra tick­ets will be sold at 5 p.m. on the day of the concert at Stepan. Tickets will cost $15. 
“We are presenting these two artists together because 
see SUB/page 4 




Ben&Jerry’sfoundergivesbusinessscoop 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Ice cream and social change are an unusual pair, but that has not stopped the world famous 33-year-old Ben & Jerry’s from combining the two to make waves in the sustainability move­ment. 
Ben & Jerry’s co-founder Jerry Greenfield, who will speak at Notre Dame this evening, said the principal of sustainability is particularly important to Ben & Jerry’s. Environmentally favor­able practices actually benefit 
corporations, he said in an inter­
view with The Observer. “Up until a 
few years 
ago, the 
conventional 
business 
wisdom was 
that if you 
wanted to 
have a sus­
tainabl e 
business, 
that it would 
take away from the business’s 
ability to be successful financial-ly,” Greenfield said. “I think that has been proven completely wrong.” 

Greenfield said he sees the business world as an incredibly powerful force in changing the status quo in America. 
“It is one of the major groups that influences how things go in the country. Having all that power also brings with it respon­sibility,” he said. “I think business has a responsibility to look out not just for its own self interest, which business has traditionally done, but to look out for the com­mon good.” 


Students to face zoning issues 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Moving off campus to live independently is a rite of passage for many Notre Dame students, but before they move in, they may want to look into their liv­ing situation. Students who have already signed leases for houses next year might have to deal with South Bend Code Enforcement, according to Director Catherine Toppel. 
Some homes that students 
see ZONING/page 5 


The future of sustainability is bright because of present and future environmental leadership being taken in the business world, Greenfield said. 
“I think it’s not only true for students of the future but for business leaders today,” he said. “You’ll find a lot of businesses really taking a lead with issues of sustainability.” 
Ben & Jerry’s was acquired by multinational conglomerate Unilever in 2000. Greenfield said it is a challenge for a socially 
see JERRY/page 4 


Hesburgh receives award 
Observer Staff Report 
Catholic Charities USA (CCUSA) honored University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh with its most prestigious award, the Centennial Medal, the organization announced Sunday in a press release. 
CCUSA is a 100-year-old organization working to reduce poverty in the United States. Hesburgh received the Centennial Medal during a special ceremony in Alexandria, Va., Sunday. The medal recognizes indi­viduals for contributions to reducing poverty in the United States, the release stated. 
CCUSA President and CEO Rev. Larry Snyder said in the release that Hesburgh stands apart based on his leadership and his example to others. 
“We honor a man not only deeply admired and respect­ed in this country, but around the world,” Snyder said. “Father Hesburgh’s life has been one of devotion to education and service to his church — exemplified by his unparalleled 35 years as president of Notre Dame. Also, his dedication to our nation is largely without equal, serving on 16 Presidential commissions, including the Civil Rights Commission. Few are of his caliber.” 


SMC announces graduationprogram 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary ’s College announced the valedictorian and commencement speaker for this year’s graduation ceremony Wednesday. 
The distinction of valedic­torian was awarded to recent graduate Samantha Wassel. Therese Johnson Borchard, a 1993 alumna of the college, will give the commencement address. 
Wassel, from New Carlisle, Ind., graduated early in December with a degree in English writing and a minor in mathematics. 
Wassel said she is honored to receive the distinction. She also served as valedicto­rian for her high school class in 2007. 
“Our graduating class includes so many incredible and talented women, and its 
see SPEAKERS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Sims speaks at diversity lecture page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Notre Dame chorale page 8  Women’s basketball advances to Final Four page 16 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 29, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR B ST PICK-UP LIN ?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sam Stryker Megan Veselik Emily Schrank Kelsey Manning Adam Llorens Megan Golden 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Maria Fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 

Bulgarian potato-hungry theives caught red handed 
THESSALONIKI, Greece – The farmer had to stay up at night to guard his field, and get help from police, but he's finally stopped the foreign marauders who were stealing his potatoes. 
Five men and four women from neighboring Bulgaria were arrested early Sunday while digging up and load­ing 800 kilograms (1,760 pounds) of stolen potatoes into a van in Ochyro, a vil­lage in northern Greece near the Bulgarian border, police say. 
The farmer, who was keeping an overnight watch for the thieves, got help from police and border guards after he lost 14 met­ric tons (15.3 tons) of pota-
Liz Kraig  Alex Marsh  Joshua Szccudlak  Leo DiPiero  Lauren Matera  Stephanie Myers  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  junior  junior  
LeMans  Duncan  Duncan  Duncan  Pangborn  Pangborn  

“Do you have a  “Don’t say  “You must be a  “Are you out of  “I wish I was  “I wish I was a  
library card,  anything. I just  parking ticket  breath? ‘Cause  DNA helicase,  derivative, so I  
‘cause I’m  yo-yo. It always  because you’re  you’ve been  so I could unzip  could lie  
checkin’ you  works.”  getting finer by  running  your genes.”  tangent to your  
out.”  the minute.”  through my  curves.”  
mind all day.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

toes the previous week. 
More than 200 empty potato sacks and digging forks were found in the van and confiscated. 
Police are now looking for other thieves in the region 
— these ones targeting olive groves. 
Peanut butter loving racoon pays the creamy price 
RONKONKOMA, N.Y. – A New York raccoon found itself in a sticky situation over the weekend. 
For eight hours on Sunday, the scavenger sat with its head inside a peanut butter jar while perched atop a Long Island utility pole. 
The unusual sight brought out dozens of curious residents on a Ronkonkoma street. Children quickly nick­named him Skippy. 
Newsday says Debbie Sullivan spotted the rac­coon outside her house at 7 a.m. She called Suffolk police, the town of Islip and the state Department 
of Environmental Conservation. They all said little could be done. 
The raccoon's ordeal finally ended around 3 
p.m. when a crew from the Long Island Power Authority came to its res­cue. The jar fell off as they used a pole to grab the animal. 
Skippy quickly scam­pered off. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture “Populism in the Andean Region: From Erosion to Breakdown of Democracy” will be held this afternoon in the Hesburgh Center Room C103, starting at 12:30 p.m. Rene Antonio Mayorga, Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow, will give the lecture. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Women Writers Festival will host a nonfic­tion writers panel at 2 p.m. at McKenna Hall. The event is free and open to the pub­lic. 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will host a panel discussion entitled “Becoming a Peacebuilding Church” this evening from 4 to 5:30 p.m. The event will be held in the Hesburgh Center and is free and open to the public. 
History professors Mark Noll, Francis A. McAnaney and Brad Gregory will give a talk entitled “Evangelicals & Catholics Together? Some Real Progress but Some Real Problems Too” at 8:30 p.m. in the Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. 
The Physics Department will host a lecture titled “The Large Binocular Telescope: A New Era in Astronomy and Engineering” at 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
Jerry Greenfield, co-founder of Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream, will lecture this evening in Jordan Auditorium from 7 to 8 p.m. Free ice cream will be avaliable after the talk while supplies last. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight wednesday thursday friday saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



44 36 HIGH 4746 4241
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


27 20 LOW 2832 3535 






Tuesday, March 29, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


SMC appoints alum as new VP for Mission 
By OLIVIA BRACH 
News Writer 
Love of God and care for 
others 
make up critical components of the Holy Cross Mission, and such Sr. Veronique Wiedower, CSC hopes to embody this sentiment as the new Vice 

open 
door policy in my role as Vice President, ” Wiedower said. “I want to maintain the bridge between the Congregation and the College.” 

Wiedower was appoint ­ed to her position March 

15 
. She entered the Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1965, and simultane ­

ously 
enrolled at Saint Mary’s as an undergradu­ate . This was only the beginning of her experi ­ence and immersion into the Saint Mary’s commu­nity. 

Soon after professing final vows in 1973, Wiedower received her Master’s Degree in theol­

ogy 
with a focus in Liturgical Studies . Wiedower said she hoped to create an adjoining relationship between music and theology, which has aided her work in Campus Ministry. 


P r e s i d e n t  f o r  M i s s i o n  a t  
Saint Mary’s.  
“ I  h o p e  t o  c r e a t e  a n  

Outside the Saint Mary’s community, Wiedower has worked actively within the Sisters of the Holy Cross, serving as Member of the General Leadership Team from 1994 to 2004 in the capacities of General Secretary, Liaison to Initial Formation and Liaison to Liturgy Office. 
Wiedower, who will take her new position June 1, said she has an important role in the religious mis­sion of the College. 
“[I will see that the] spirit of the College is still lived out,” she said. 

Saint Mary ’s president Carol Ann Mooney and Sr. Joan Marie Steadman, CSC, President of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, worked together to find the new Vice President for Mission. 
In a press release, Mooney said Wiedower possessed the necessary attributes for the job. 
“Sr. Joan Marie Steadman and I have mutually decided that Sr. Veronique has the gifts, experience, and wisdom to serve Saint Mary’s in this important role and Sr. Veronique has gra ­ciously accepted our offer of the position,” she said. 
Sr. Rose Ann Schultz, CSC was the first person to serve as Vice President for Mission in 1994. Schultz took charge of rewriting the College Mission Statement, which continues to maintain the Catholic character of the College. The position was then handed over in 2009 to Sr. Mary Louis Goody, CSC. 
Wiedower said she hopes to incorporate Gospel values, the abun­dance of Catholic tradi ­tion and the heritage of the Sisters of the Holy Cross within the Saint Mary ’s community. Wiedower said she also looks to nurture the rela­tionship between the fac­ulty, staff and student population at the College. 
“I want the Saint Mary’s community to live the mission, and to feel at home at Saint Mary ’s, ” she said. 
Wiedower said her faith has prepared her for her new position. 
“God has always been there for me, ” she said. “The Spirit will get me through.” 
Contact Olivia Brach at obrach01@saintmarys.edu 


Sims speaks at diversity lecture 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Though he garnered All-American honors as a defensive lineman at Bloomsburg University in Pennsylvania, Brian Sims is better known for his unique story of leadership than his achievements on the field. 
Sims, the only openly gay man to serve as football captain in NCAA history, spoke Monday in Geddes Hall for the Progressive Student Alliance’s “Rally for Diversity.” 
Sims, now a Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender [LGBT] rights advocacy lawyer in Philadelphia, came out to his teammates his senior year. He said his story did not receive much attention until a decade after graduation. 
“Two years ago, I was working as in house counsel for the Philadelphia bar association friends and received an email on my blackberry from an 80 year old gay Canadian Olympian that read my story and said I was a hero,” he said. 
Sims said that he receives 
three types of emails. The first group comments on his attractive­ness. The sec­ond type comes from parents and coaches want­ing to help out their children or players struggling with being gay or coming out. Finally, there are those emails from 
teenagers struggling with being gay. 
“At first I was avoiding the last third of the emails I was 
when I got a call from a guy from 
outsports.com [an LGBT sports website] who wanted to do a story about my coming-out expe­rience,” Sims said. “I told him that he was 10 years too late.” 
Sims said he agreed to the story, did the interview a week later and thought nothing of it. He 
“You are more supportive of gay rights than any other Christian denomina­tion and the U.S. population as a whole.” 
Brian Sims LGBT rights advocacy lawyer 
“Four in five [age] 18 to civil rights, and yet you 
30 college students or 
think that only 
college educated people 
one-third of believe that gays deserve your demo-
civil rights, and yet you graphic is 
supportive,” 
think that only one-third 
Sims said. of your demographic is “You think 
supportive.” that you are your own island of gay 
Brian Sims 
rights.” LGBT rights advocacy lawyer Sims said he 
receiving because I didn’t know how to handle them,” Sims said. 
Sims said one message in par­ticular from a 15 -year -old wrestler helped him start to respond to these emails. He said the boy told him he shared the arti­cle about Sims with his family 


said he did not know the web-and team to help them under-site published his personal stand what he was dealing with. email address with the article. As Sims has transitioned from “I was at dinner with my All-American defensive lineman 
into LGBT advocate, he said he encourages people to actively push for gay rights in spite of perceived difficulty. 
“Four in five [age] 18 to 30 
college students or college edu­cated people believe that gays deserve 
encourages 
activism among allies, straight people who participate in civil activism. Allies feel gay people deserve the same rights that they do. 
Sims said allies are sometimes discouraged when they suffer similar discrimination to what the gay community does. He said allies should band together and find each other. 
Sims said Catholics are accepting of gay rights as he cited a recently released study by the Public Religion Research Institute on how Catholics view sexuality and gender relations. 
“This study shows that Catholics rock when it comes to gay issues,” Sims said. “You are more supportive of gay rights than any other Christian denomination and the U.S. pop­ulation as a whole.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 29, 2011 
Jerry 
continued from page 1 
responsible corporation to main­tain an autonomous identity under this ownership. 
“It takes ongoing vigilance and continual energy to strive to maintain an independent spirit,” he said. “I think it is helpful that the company has a heritage of being some­what anti-corporate 
“I think consumers really appreciate when businesses are trying to do things that are not just to make more money but to try and bring about a better world,” he said. “When they find those companies that are doing those things they want to support them.” 
In addition to his passion for social responsibility, Greenfield said Ben & Jerry’s products, par­ticularly his favorite flavor, Heath Bar Crunch, remain a staple in his 

and anti­authoritari­an.” B e i n g  “I think consumers really appreciate when businesses are trying to do things that  life. “I still eat an absurd amount of  
owned by a conglomerate is not without its perks  are not just to make more money but to try and bring about a better world.”  ice cream,” he said. S t u d e n t s should look  
t h o u g h ,  to  combine  
G r e e n f i e l d said. “The bene- Jerry Greenfeld Ben & Jerry’s co-founder  passions out­side of busi­ness with  

fits of being owned by a bigger com­pany are that you have the potential to have bigger change and to reach more people and have a bigger impact,” he said. 
One of the changes being part of a conglomeration has made possible is Ben & Jerry’s commit­ment to become a 100 percent fair trade company by 2013. 
Involvement in social concerns such as fair trade practices is Greenfield’s favorite part of his job. He said engagement in such ambitions is beneficial to corpo­rations as it helps them stand out in the business world. 
“For many businesses and cor­porations, they exist simply to make money,” Greenfield said. “They become involved in issues that are designed to make them more money and not for the gen­eral welfare of the country.” 
Patrons recognize when a com­pany is socially responsible, and this affects spending behavior, Greenfield said. 
SUB 
continued from page 1 
they are two excellent live performers from two different genres of music,” he said. “With this combination of tal­ent we expect a huge turnout on Friday at the LaFun Box Office.” 
SUB concert programmer Matt Stolze said the two bands were highly popular among stu­what they 
look to 
accomplish in their careers, Greenfield said. 
“I think it is extremely helpful to be doing something you are passionate about, to not just be doing something that you might just think is a clever idea,” he said. 
This enthusiasm is often what drives people to push through challenges in business, Greenfield said. 
“My experience in business is that if you run into difficult times, along the way not everything goes that smoothly,” he said. “If you are doing something you are really passionate about that you really believe in, that will help you get through those difficult times.” 
Greenfield will speak tonight at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
summer so there is an enor­mous amount of time and effort that goes into the plan­ning process.” 
Chiddy Bang will begin its performance at 8 p.m., and the headliner O.A.R. is expected to begin at 9 p.m., Hesburgh said. 
In the past, SUB hosted per­formers like Mike Posner and The Roots during its large spring concert. The board brought mix artist The White Panda to cam­pus in November for 


dents. “In all honesty, I would its fall concert “I think the after it can ­
be very surprised if
attraction for celed a per ­
this show did not sell
O.A.R. is pretty formance by clear,” he said. out.” rapper Sam “They’re Adams. known as a Students are 
Matt Stolze
fantastic live required to 
SUB concert programmer 
act, and it’s a present their 
band a lot of people around campus love. As for Chiddy Bang, they’re a more up-and-coming act that has generated a lot of buzz, especially in the college scene.” 
The board manager received numerous emails leading up to the decision to request Chiddy Bang in par­ticular, Stolze said. 
“Securing artists such as 
O.A.R. and Chiddy Bang takes months of planning that includes researching artists, countless phones calls to agents and budgeting,” Hesburgh said. “The search for the next year’s big concert typically begins during the student IDs to 
purchase a 
ticket. Each student may purchase up to three tickets but must bring three different student IDs to make the purchase. The Friday sale will be open only to Notre Dame undergradu­ates until 2 p.m., and then students from Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross will be able to purchase tickets as well. 
Stolze said SUB predicts the concert to have a large stu­dent response. 
“In all honesty, I would be very surprised if this show did not sell out,” he said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Festivalfocusesonnonfiction 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The fourth annual Notre Dame Women Writers Festival shifted focus Monday and will continue to explore the realm of nonfic­
t i o n  t h r o u g h  t h e  w o r k  o f  
f o u r  p r o m i n e n t  f e m a l e  
authors today.  
“ N o n f i c t i o n  i n  A l l  I t s  

Guises,” sponsored by the Creative Writing Program and the College of Arts and Letters, features four scribes with unique approaches to writing, Valerie Sayers, coordinator of the festival, said. 
“We thought it would be interesting to get four writ­ers with completely different approaches to nonfiction,” she said. “These writers all work in multiple genres, but we want to focus on their nonfiction work.” 
Two of these writers read excerpts from their work in McKenna Hall Monday. Edwidge Danticat, a Haitian-American writer who immi­grated to the United States at age 10, read from her memoir, “Brother, I’m Dying.” The piece illustrated her relationship with the uncle who raised her in Haiti and her experience as an immigrant in the United States. 
Jenny Boully, an experi­mental nonfiction writer who earned her Master of Fine Arts at Notre Dame, also read Monday, discussing ways to play with nonfiction. 
“One of her [Boully’s] books is made up of foot­notes to a nonexistent text,” Sayers said. “She is a very droll writer.” 
Today, the festival will showcase the work of Sonja Livingston and Susan Orlean. A panel will also provide Notre Dame undergraduates the opportunity to interact directly with the featured writers as they answer ques­tions about their approaches to nonfiction, Sayers said. 
“We want to give writers at Notre Dame, especially women, a chance to speak directly to the writers and ask them questions,” Sayers said. “The numbers are still daunting in the literary world for women writers because a disproportionate number of male writers are published by large and small presses, so we want to show that it’s possible for women to get into the business as well.” 
Livingston will read from her memoir, “Ghostbread,” which reflects on her experi­ence of life in a large, pover­ty-stricken family through short, intense chapters. Orlean, a staff writer for “The New Yorker,” will also read from her offbeat body of nonfiction work Tuesday night. 
Sayers said one primary goal of the festival is to address the gender imbal­ance of visiting authors to Notre Dame. 
“We’ve had predominantly male writers over the years,” she said. “The situation is getting better, but we’re still in the unfortunate position of having to point out that there are less visiting female writers.” 
Sayers said the festival’s focus on nonfiction written by women also appeals to students interested in jour­nalism, American studies, gender studies and poverty studies. The respective departments of these disci­plines were instrumental in sponsoring the festival, she said. 
Festivals like this one high­light the oral element of lit­erature and help readers think about how they read literature, Sayers said. 
“It’s especially interesting in this digital age to think about how the human voice compares to the multimedia possibilities we have access to through our computers,” Sayers said. “In all festivals and programs, live readers are mesmerizing and provide a different kind of experi­ence from both the solitary and multimedia reading experiences.” 
The relative balance of men and women in the audi­ence at past Women Writers Festivals shows promise for the future of women in pub­lishing, Sayers said. 
“It’s one of the most grati­fying aspects of the festival to see that balance of male and female attendees,” she said. “All four of these writ­ers have a broad nonfiction audience that appeals to both men and women, so this festival’s audience should be balanced as well.” 
The writers’ panel will take place today at 2 p.m. in 100 -104 McKenna Hall. Livingston and Orlean will begin reading at 7:30 p.m. in the McKenna Auditorium. All readings are free and open to the public. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbins@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 29, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Speakers 
continued from page 1 
such a privilege to repre­sent my peers in an aca ­demic capacity, ” Wassel said. “Being valedictorian has also helped me feel connected to the college despite my early grad­uation, because it’s forced me to reflect on my time at Saint Mary’s and to think about what I would like to say to my peers during my address at the graduation ceremony.” 
Though Wassel was named valedictorian of her high school class, she said she never aimed to repeat the honor. 
“My main goal was simply to make the most of my academic experi­ence at Saint Mary ’s, ” Wassel said. “Being named valedic­torian was a byproduct of that goal, and I am honored to have earned the distinc­tion, but it was never my main focus in college.” 
Wassel said she started majoring in chemistry, but decided to switch to English, something she is more passionate about. 
“I write because I feel compelled to do so and because I find a great deal of joy and fulfillment in the creative process,” she said. 



During her college career, Wassel ran cross-country and was a member of the editorial board for Chimes, Saint Mary’s literary maga­zine. 
Wassel, who hopes to earn a Master of Fine Arts in creative writing, said she wants to stress to under­classmen the importance of following their passions during their time at Saint Mary’s. 
“You really just have to follow your heart academi­cally. Four years of col ­lege, especially somewhere as academically rigorous as SMC, is challenging enough as it is,” she said. “There’s no reason not to spend as much of that time as possi­ble studying something you enjoy.” 
This year ’s commence ­ment speaker is also a member of the Saint Mary’s community. Borchard grad­uated from the College in 1993 with a degree in reli­gious studies and earned a Masters of Theology from the University of Notre Dame. 
Borchard is now a mental health blogger, and has written several books on the subject. 
“I am devoted to this line of work since I have strug­gled first-hand with depres­sion and other mood disor­ders,” she said. “It is my way of making lemonade 
out of lemons and giving back.” 
Borchard said she is hon­ored to serve as commence­ment speaker at her alma mater. 
“I don’t think even win­ning a Pulitzer Prize would mean more, because so much of who I am was formed during my four years at Saint Mary’s,” she said. 
Borchard said she hopes to share the aspiration of living an authentic life with the Saint Mary’s communi­ty. She said students should not hold back because they fear rejection and failure. The speaker at her gradua­tion, Surgeon General Antonia Novella, passed on advice that still rings true today. 
“I remember her speaking about the empowerment of women today, that we are all capable of making sub­stantial contributions to the world,” Borchard said. “I also remember thinking to myself that I should never ever smoke another ciga­rette.” 
Borchard said Saint Mary’s sense of community had the biggest impact on her college experience. 
“My Saint Mary’s friends are still among my best friends, the godmothers of my two children, and I still keep in touch with my pro­fessors”, she said. “They invested so much time and energy into their students, not to mention sharing their wisdom. That kind of care and support today is unusual and I feel very blessed to have benefited from it.” 
Senior Sarah Mayer said she was excited to find out who would be speaking at graduation and is interest­ed to hear what they will say. 
“I like that [Borchard] is an alumna and I just hope she can connect with us,” senior Sarah Mayer said. “I do not really care how suc­cessful she is, I just want an engaging speech and I am sure that she will deliv­er.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 

Zoning 
continued from page 1 
have signed leases for are not zoned properly, which could result in students being evict­ed, she said. 
According to Toppel, the department sees around three cases every year. She said the amount should increase expo­nentially with the coming school year, as Code Enforcement is making zoning violations a priority. 
“It’s gotten a lot worse over the past few years,” Toppel said. “It’s drawing the atten­tion of the neighbors … I’m estimating close to 100 homes, once all the things are looked at.” 
cerned about their housing for next year. 
“Don’t depend on your land­
lord  for  answers  to  if  it’s  
okay,”  she  said.  “Dou ble  
check.”  

Local landlord Mark Kramer of Kramer Properties said he has looked into his homes, and all are properly zoned. 
“When students come to see me because they’ve looked at a home, I know the areas that are and are not zoned proper­ly,” he said. “I advise them to check the code with Building Services. I feel it’s my obliga­tion to students to make them aware of the code.” 
Code Enforcement chief inspector Brian Haygood said an investigation into viola­tions begins when the department receives a 
The com-“It’s nothing against the complaint 
plaints con-students, but [student about a cern the home from a
houses] change the feel of
number of neighb or. 
students liv-a neighborhood. The Code 
ing at a neighborhood wants Enforcement h o m e , then investi­
year-round neighbors.” 
Toppel said. gates, send-Some homes ing letters to being rented Catherine Toppel resid ents to students South Bend Code Enforcement and owners 
are zoned about over-
director
Single Family, meaning no more than two unrelated people can live at the property. This zoning is meant to encourage families, instead of students, to reside at properties. 
“It’s nothing against the stu­dents, but [student houses] change the feel of a neighbor­hood,” Toppel said. “The neighborhood wants year-round neighbors.” 
Some off-campus houses have correct Multi-Family zoning, allowing more than two non-related residents to 
live on a p r o p e r t y. Other homes within Single Family dis­tricts have been grand­fathered in, with Multi-Family zoning from previous district lines. 
Zoning updates occurred in 1968, 1978, 1986 and 2004. Some homes have been kept Multi-Family, even though the district they are in 
“When students come to see me because they’ve looked at a home, I know the areas that are and are not zoned properly. I advise them to check the code with Building Services. I feel it’s my obligation to students to make them aware of the code” 
Mark Kramer local landlord 
has changed to Single Family zoning. 
“We’ve looked at zoned areas and the updates,” Toppel said. “We’re looking at individual cases.” 
Some landlords mistakenly believe their rental properties are grandfathered in, Toppel said. If a home had two occu­pants or less for a consecutive twelve months, then the home has reverted to Single Family zoning status. 
Toppel said students should call Building Services or Code Enforcement if they are con-crowding in 
a home. 
There can be 
a hearing, as well as fines, and residents normally must leave. 
“If you’re living in a house, you have a responsibility [to the neighborhood],” he said. 
Off-campus president Ryan Hawley said it is unfortunate students seem to bear most of the punishment for code vio­lations. 
“It’s important for all stu­dents living off campus to be in compliance with South Bend laws and to also be good neighbors and contribute to 
the com­munity, ” he said. “However, it seems unreason­able to punish students for signing leases they were led to beli eve would ensure that they had a house to live in next year.” 
While extensions 
are sometimes given to stu­dents found in code violation during the school year to fin­ish the year in their house, Toppel said none would be granted through the next year. 
“We want to get serious about properties for next year,” she said. 
If concerned about the zon­ing of a property, contact Code Enforcement at (574) 235-9486. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, March 29, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A return to values 

There were a lot of bracket disap­pointments this weekend. From Kansas to Ohio State, it was tough to find a bracket that wasn’t destroyed in some way. My biggest bracket upset came in the NCAA Women’s Coaches Fashion Bracket. I could not believe Muffet McGraw got out in the Elite Eight. And Kim Mulkey 

of Baylor Mary Claire O’Donnell won? Come 
Scene Editor 
on. 

Despite my disappointment at the outcome of the bracket, I was glad to see that ESPN was returning to real values in its late Saturday afternoon program­ming. They were talking about what really mattered with their Fashion Bracket. I only wish that they could have run that bracket before I made my NCAA women’s basketball one. I don’t look for skill in female athletes, I simply look at what they’re wearing or how they do their hair. 
I hope ESPN continues this vein of sports entertainment. Let’s leave the sports to the men. We’ll let them sweat it out on the courts, the fields and the tracks. Instead, I propose that next year’s women’s bracket be replaced with a relay obstacle com­petition. 
We’ll stick with five players, for equality of the sexes of course. But this competition involves a series of five challenges that the players must achieve. Before a player can begin her task, the teammate in front of her must complete her task and tag the next teammate in line. The teams are then evaluated on the time it took them to complete the competition and also the quality of their work. 
The first event: table-setting. Everyone appreciates a well-laid table. It really sets the ambience of a meal, and its importance should not be overlooked. I’ve seen a poorly laid table ruin a first date. 
The second event: cooking. After all, once you have a nicely laid table, you need food to eat from it. The meal doesn’t necessarily have to be anything fancy, but it does have to be well-balanced. No use in contributing to the obesity problem in America. 
The third event: cleaning. Naturally, after a meal the kitchen or dining room will be messy. Players should expect to run the dishwasher, mop, wipe down counters and possi­bly vacuum. 
The fourth event: laundry. Laundry is an important facet of life. Do it wrong and you may ruin all your clothes. Never do it and you’ll lose friends. Folding techniques will also be judged. 
The fifth event: baby care. Babies are inescapable. From changing a diaper to calming a crying infant, this may be the toughest event in the competition and should not be taken lightly. 
I hope ESPN seriously considers my idea. This style of play could even free up airtime to concentrate on what really matters in March: men and basketball. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
Filling out the bucket list 
We're back from spring break, which means that we are now in the last half of the last semester of the last year in college for me and my fel­low seniors. And while I didn't ever go to Mexico, Florida, Puerto Rico or someplace similar for spring break (college foul, I know), I did make an epic road trip with my high school bud­dies this year, so at least I can Andy Ziccarelli cross some­

thing off my Moment of Inertia Notre Dame bucket list. The concept of a Notre Dame bucket list was always something that I had in the back of my mind. After all, we are only on campus for four years, it would be foolish to not experience everything that the school had to offer. However, apparently posters were being passed out a few weeks ago out­side of DeBartolo with a list of 100 things to do before you graduate. Someone had finally created an actual bucket list! Of course, being the absentminded person that I am, I did-n’t end up with one. 
So this is where you come in, Observer readers. I need your help. As someone who wants to make the absolute most of the next two months, tell me what else I need to experience here on campus. I would classify myself as a typical Domer. There is 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
nothing particularly special about me, which means that I have a typical range of experiences as a Notre Dame undergrad. Academically, I have felt very challenged over the years, just like we all have. Have I pulled an all­nighter working on homework? Yes. Closed down the library? Check. Overstudied for an exam? Check. Understudied for an exam? Check. Skipped class for no reason? Not often, but it has happened (sorry, Mom). But, most importantly, I can look back and feel confident in my education and be proud of it. We all work hard here, and everyone deserves to feel good about it every once in a while. 
Notre Dame's biggest calling card outside of the classroom is its sense of community, and nowhere is this more evident that in the University's Residence Hall system. I told the resi­dents in my hallway at the beginning of the year to come to me with any questions at all about living in the dorm because I have seen just about everything there is to see (for better or for worse). In four years, I have lived in a triple, then a quad, then a double and now finally a single. Each has their pros and cons. I have seen roommates form lifelong friendships and roommates that can’t stand to be around each other. At the time, I thought I was able to get away with quite a bit as an underclassman. Now that I am on the flip side as an RA, I laugh at how much people think they are getting away with. 
Even in the broad scope of campus activities, I feel like I have experi­enced the essentials. I have (once) attended hip hop night at Legends. Once is enough. I have been at an off-campus party which got busted by the cops. Each year, I have traveled to at least one road football game. Twice, I’ve been to Pigtostal. And I have wait­ed in line at both Sbarro and Reckers at 2 a.m. with seemingly every other person on campus. Actually, now that I think about it, going to Sbarro before 2 a.m. should be on the bucket list, because I don’t know of anyone who has actually done that. I certainly haven’t. 
So what’s left, Notre Dame? There are a handful of things that I can think of that I still have to do, but I am sure I am missing a ton of them. I haven’t participated in the Fisher Regatta and I haven’t run the Holy Half Marathon. I’ve never been down in the tunnels, even though I have no idea what the big deal is about them. They are just utility tunnels. I will never understand the fascination with them. And I've still never climbed Stepan Center. But beyond that, I don’t know what else I need to do. So if you have an idea, send me an email or, better yet, write a “Letter to the Editor” and tell every­body what they need to do before they graduate. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


POLL OF THE WEEK 
Who do you think is going to winthe NCAA men’s championship? Kentucky Connecticut VCU Butler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“God is a comedian playing to anaudience too afraid to laugh.” 
Voltaire French writer and philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 29, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Truly lucky 
Dear Mr. Galvan, 

In response to your “Defense for college students,” (Mar. 28) I am sorry that the stricter rules about drinking forced you to “drive when you shouldn’t” when you were an undergraduate. As you admit, you were lucky to not have gotten caught. You are luckier that you did not kill or injure anyone in South Bend, or as you like to call it, “Nowhere, Indiana,” when you were driving drunk. 
Sincerely, 
Meredith Meagher 
graduate student off campus Mar. 28 

Spring concert 
Dear North Dining Hall, 

Nothing says springtime like flowers. So I was pleasantly sur­prised to see fresh flowers in the North Dining Hall. (If you haven’t noticed them yet, they’re on top of the salad bars.) However, there is a slight problem with this decorative choice: no one is watering these flowers, and there are few things more depressing than watching flowers die from dehydration. Today I watched one of the NDH workers throw out one of these potted hyacinths because it was all dried up. Earlier this week when I mentioned that perhaps they should water the flowers, I was told that “they were just dead.” They were indeed dead, but not from natural causes. 
Now most of the hyacinths have been replaced with tulips, and I fear for their safety. In these days of heightened environmental awareness, let’s remember that “going green” also means keep­ing our plants green with love, care and a whole lot of water. 
Sincerely, 
Maria Sengenberger 
senior Walsh Hall Mar. 28 
UWIRE 

As the United States becomes deeper involved in its third war in a Muslim state, comparisons with the war in Iraq are inevitably made. Before any discussion of the two conflicts is made, it is important to Bilal Ahmed note that differ­ences between Daily Targum the wars in Libya and Iraq undeniably differentiate the two con­flicts. President Barack Obama contin­ued his foreign policy trend of limiting 
U.S. combat involvement in Libya, while former President George W. Bush overwhelmingly devoted large numbers of troops to overthrowing Saddam Hussein in Iraq — though sustainability concerns limited the number of soldiers he committed as well. 
There has been some international support for intervention in Libya, although these resolutions have advo­cated for a much narrower range of military options than explored in Libya. Even the Arab League vote has been regretted substantially by those who voted for it. Libya has been over-
Water the flowers 
Well it’s that time of the year for Notre Dame to announce what magnificent act(s) will be performing at the annual Spring Concert. Hoping to make up for the dry, drab and dreary performance by the geri­atrics of Guster, Chiddy Bang and OAR will be taking the stage in about two weeks. The people could not be any more excited for this spectacle; two acts with such a great sense of musicality and pure talent. 
OAR brings poignant and potent lyrics and daz­zling melodies while Chiddy Bang brings raw emo­tion and polemic subjects to the table in a fascinat­ing style. The point being I didn’t think we could pull anybody worse than Guster and as usual, the University always exceeds my expectations. Being truthful, having a wannabe Dave Matthews Band and a second rate rapper may be better than any­body’s wildest fantasies, considering Sam Adams’ cancelled show and other music debacles. Putting this aside, looking at IU’s lineup for April, I find myself astonished that they can pull Pretty Lights, State Radio, and Lil’ Wayne along with a cast and crew of other talented performers in a string of four concerts. I’d rather go to Acoustic Cafe than this show any night because at least I might get to see a flash of real talent. 
Gregory Berryman 
freshman Keough Hall Mar. 28 
“Student” lounge 
I have been kicked out of the so-called “stu­dent lounge” in Coleman-Morse for the last time. Almost every single time I have gone to study in Room 104 of Coleman-Morse, the Hammes Student Lounge, it has been reserved for some event or some group. Why call this place a student lounge if students do not have regular access to it? I think the lounge in Coleman-Morse is a great place to study for its quiet and calming atmosphere. Besides that, it has a very convenient location and for those of us who live a far distance from campus, the stu­dent lounge is a great place to hang out in between classes or other meetings. So why deprive students of this excellent study-space oasis? 
Talking to the building manager’s office, peo­ple do not need to be student-groups to reserve the space. The current policy for the Hammes Student Lounge should be changed so that nobody can reserve this space. This space should remain open all of the time for all stu­dents to share in its use. In addition, the groups (especially the non-student groups) who are constantly reserving the beloved student lounge should be moved to other locations on this cam­pus designed for such activities like McKenna Hall. 
If the current policy persists, I plan on reserv­ing the Hammes Student Lounge for students (What a strange notion!). If you happen to swing by the lounge and see those dreaded “RESERVED” signs, check to make sure they do not say “Reserved for ALL Students” before angrily leaving to search out another study spot. 
Ben Mall 
junior Carroll Hall Mar. 27 

Separate Libya from Iraq 
whelmingly portrayed as a humanitar­ian conflict that will protect the lives of civilians, while Iraq was sold to the international community as a security action against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction primari­ly and a humanitarian action secondly. 
The bombing of Libya is somewhat similar to the NATO assault on Serbia, which saw the international communi­ty intervening to stop the destructive trend of regional politics. It is worry­ing that despite successes in the Slavic states, the United Nations is still skep­tical about the capacity of ethnic ten­sions to ease in the region and these developments may be replicated in Libya. 
Obama sought to differentiate him­self from his Republican peers by committing troops to Libya while con­fronting real concerns in the state. However, the basis for this commis­sion is almost identical to that of Iraq. It became increasingly clear that a victory for Col. Muammar Gaddafi would set a powerful precedent in the Arab world that autocratic oppression of rebellious movements would lead to an end of political movements against the dictators in question. American intervention in Libya would therefore prevent this eventuality and ally the United States with freedom and democracy in the Middle East, which is a similar justification to that which motivated direct action in the war in Iraq. Iraq is a continuing military campaign, which has roots in an atti­tude of self-admiring support for democracy that both predated and survived the revelation that Saddam Hussein did not pursue weapons of mass destruction. This support was meant to portray that the United States was allied with pro-democratic movements in the Middle East, though they were certainly less noticeable until a Tunisian man resolved to set himself ablaze. Libya is therefore another attempt to place the United States in a favorable light in the Middle East by offering itself as the vanguard of regional democracy and will have similarly complex problems later when these attempts run against American interests of maintaining sta­bility and the export of oil from the region. 
However, the most striking differ­
ence between Iraq and Libya is that Bush at least attempted to maintain a semblance of democracy by lubricat­ing the months leading up to the beginning of the conflict with a public relations campaign concerning the necessity of the conflict. 
Obama, surprisingly enough, has begun the Libyan campaign with little consultation from elected representa­tives, worrying, as there is a weak withdrawal strategy from Libya simi­lar to that of Iraq where thousands of troops are still stationed. Let us not forget that Iraq was supposed to be a conflict concluded in a matter of months, not years. It seems reason­able to believe that Libya, while we are still stationed in Iraq, may become Obama’s Iraq. The gap of history is so minuscule between the two conflicts that it would be inexcusable if this were the case. 
This article originally ran in the Mar. 28 edition of the Daily Targum, serving Rutgers University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, March 29, 2011 



This May Notre Dame’s official concert Center’s website said. “In repertoire will help fund the trip to Italy, along choir, the Chorale, is making an eight-ranging from Renaissance motets to with sales of CDs and other merchandise day pilgrimage to Italy in their “Heart of works written by living composers, the sold directly after the concert and dur-Italy” tour. The Chorale has also jour-Chorale exhibits an impressive range of ing the month of April. neyed to France, Germany, Austria and styles and a high level of artistry.” Chorale is also hosting a fundraiser at New Zealand. Besides international The Chorale performs every season, Five Guys this Wednesday, with a por­tours, the Chorale toured through U.S. including a special December perform-tion of all sales between 5 and 10 going cities over Winter Break and the ance of the popular Handel’s “Messiah” to the Chorale. Midwest in January.  concert. Chorale members also sing for 
“Each semester the University of Notre the Inn at St. Mary’s around Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra Christmastime and for a bring classics of the choral literature to Commencement Concert and Mass at campus in refreshingly skillful perform-the end of the year. Contact Claire Stephens at ances,” the DeBartolo Performing Arts This year’s spring concert on Friday cstephe4@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, March 29, 2011 page 9 

By CHISTOPHER COLLUM 
Scene Writer 

At surface level, Wiz Khalifa seems to perfectly epitomize the stereotypical hedonistic rap star lifestyle, consisting of little else besides alcohol, drugs, women, cars and braggadocio about all of the above. He sounds comfortably at ease in this atmosphere. This is intriguing given that, despite having a No. 1 single about a month ago with “Black and Yellow,” he’s a very new arrival in the main­stream. 
Twenty-three-year-old Khalifa, whose birth name is Cameron Jibril Thomaz, built up a substantial following first in his native Pittsburgh and then nationally among a certain demographic — namely college-age kids — through a string of official mix tapes and two independent albums between 2005 and last year. In those albums and mix tapes he seemed largely concerned with two things, both of which are also present on “Rolling Papers.” 
First, he raps often about his hedonis­tic lifestyle, and especially about mari­juana and all things related to it. (He was arrested and briefly held in prison after a concert at Eastern Carolina University last November when police found weed on his tour bus). Second, he is very proud of his city, and his Taylor Gang “crew” and will tell you all about it—a theme prevalent from his first sin­gle “Pittsburgh Sound” to “Black and Yellow.” 
While never seriously regarded as a top-notch emcee, Wiz has been lauded in the past for his clever lyrics, generally delivered nonchalantly over airy beats. This, coupled with both artists’ notori­ous love of weed, has led to comparisons to Snoop Dogg. These comparisons have been strengthened by the rappers’ recent collaborations, including on the official “Black and Yellow” remix. 
So then, one would think that an album called “Rolling Papers”, sporting album art that features Wiz in a cloud of smoke he is exhaling, would not take a huge step away from Khalifa’s previous endeavors. And that is mostly true. 
Opener “When I’m Gone” sets the pace for most of the album as Wiz pro­claims, “I’m gonna spend it all / Why wait for another day? / …’Cause I can’t take it with me when I’m gone.” Second track “On My Level” is another of Wiz’s stoned-out slow-moving party anthems that have been found in spades on his previous releases. 
The aforementioned Pittsburgh anthem “Black and Yellow” is followed by “Roll Up,” the second radio single. Despite the title, “Roll Up” is not at all a weed song, but rather a mid-tempo R&B love number. In the hook Wiz spouts such phrases as “Whenever you need me…I’ll be there shortly,” and “I’ll be your best friend and you’ll be my homey.” 
That’s practically monogamous for a man who has developed a rather promiscuous reputation, and while it wouldn’t sound strange coming from, say, Usher, coming from Wiz it just feels wrong. 
There are signs elsewhere that this may not be a change of heart from Wiz, but rather his label, Atlantic Records, pandering to radio in the attempt to cre­ate more smash hits. “Fly Solo” and album closer “Cameras” both are obvi­ous attempts to manufacture a hit, with the former featuring Wiz rapping (kind of) over an acoustic guitar-driven pop-rock track. 
Just as with “Roll Up,” both of those songs are pretty innocuous pop numbers that wouldn’t be too bad coming from most anyone else. But they don’t seem natural coming from Wiz. 
The other main problem with “Rolling Papers” is that it is far too slow—the middle part of the album gets bogged down in mid-tempo songs that sort of ooze along. This might make for good listening for one under the influence of marijuana, but for the average listener it just gets boring. 
This is the third time in the last year that a critically acclaimed underground rapper has had an album on Atlantic Records that has sounded to a large extent like a ploy for mainstream suc­cess. B.o.B’s debut “The Adventures of Bobby Ray,” and Lupe Fiasco’s “Lasers,” released two weeks ago, are the other examples. 
However “Rolling Papers” does have redemptive qualities. When Wiz actually raps it’s generally pretty entertaining, especially on songs such as “Rooftops” (featuring likeminded New Orleans emcee Curren$y) where Wiz raps about his rise from the underground, saying, “Used to not be allowed in the building, now we on the rooftop.” 
All in all, “Rolling Papers” is disap­pointing, but it’s hard to blame Wiz Khalifa for that. Besides, in all likelihood he has more than this ahead of him — whether he returns to his stylized breed of stoner rap or not, Wiz is certain to continue to grow in popularity. 
Contact Christopher Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 

By CHRISTOPHER COLLUM 
Scene Writer 
Last week’s episode of the popular NBC comedy “Community” featured an homage to Quentin Tarantino’s classic psycho-crime thriller “Pulp Fiction.” Released in 1994, the movie was hailed as an instant classic, and its reputation and influence has been main­tained to this day. The “Community ” episode is just one example of the influence the movie has upon popular culture. 
The movie’s nonlinear plot revolves around several seeming­ly unrelated nar­rative threads about crime in the Los Angeles area. These episodes feature John Travolta as a drug-addicted grunt man for the mob, Samuel L. Jackson as his cold-blooded partner, Uma Thurman as the mob leader’s wife, Bruce Willis as a boxer, a British couple who rob a diner, a nefarious character known as “The Gimp” and even a cameo by Tarantino himself. 
Without trying to give away too much, the way in which Tarantino twists together these narratives to its eventual conclusion — or lack thereof 
— is incredibly brilliant. But what really sets “Pulp Fiction” apart is its stellar, though gleefully profane, screenplay. 
Tarantino’s characters are multi­
dimensional, and by the end of the 154-minute epic, the viewer really feels as if he has been made famil­iar with most of these dimensions. Most of the clas­sic dialogues are too long and too profane to print here, but a mere 15 minutes into the movie, the genius of the screenplay should be obvi­ous. “Pulp Fiction” is highly recom­mended for any­
one who likes crime thrillers, dark comedies or movies that require a lit­tle bit of thought to decipher. It is not recommended for the squeamish, eas­ily offended or for anyone who can’t stand long movies with slow-moving plots. 
Contact Christopher Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 29, 2011 
Buckeyes scored the first points ed by the ND team. The Irish a tough time stopping the stroke to bow, was down early of the match on an unsuccess-went up in the first quarter by power hitters of the Hoosiers, after the start, but gained on 
Stanley 

fully converted try. They fol-quickly scoring 5 points. as well as putting the ball down Purdue throughout the remain-lowed this with a penalty kick Kernell only allowed one goal on their scrappy team defense der of the race. They finished 
continued from page 11 

minutes later. Roughly halfway past him, virtually shutting and excellent blocking. Notre about 10 seconds behind 
The Irish got on the board through the first half, OSU down the Alumni’s offense. Dame fell to the eventual tour-Purdue in second place, finish-quickly with a try from sopho-maintained an 8-0 lead, until Over the next three quarters, nament champion Hoosiers 24-ing with a 6:38.4. more back sophomore Ashley second row senior Nick Civetta the Alumni slowly closed the 26, 18-25. The Irish finished in The second novice eight Okonta on a break in the begin-punched in the first Irish score. gap. However, that was not fifth place, and are set up for a rounded out the day for the ning of the first quarter. Wing forward senior Andy enough as the Irish won 11 – 9. top-seed in the upcoming Irish. After holding on to Sophomore Megan Scheitlin Mullen added a second try fol-Notre Dame came out strong National Championship tourna-Purdue for the first 500m, the made two of her three attempt-lowing a diligent Irish march against University of Michigan. ment in Houston. crew coxed by freshman Casey ed kicks for extra points. At downfield. Flyhalf sophomore Sophomore Jon Hancher scored Connolly, with freshman Nick the beginning of the second Sean Peterson converted on the to start of the game and Men’s Rowing Prevete, freshman Pat Hickey, quarter, Chicago put them-subsequent kick to extend the Fordonski quickly followed with The men’s rowing club trav-junior Pat Clardy, freshman selves on the board with a Irish lead to 12-8 at halftime. another goal. Kernell com-elled to Indianapolis early Steven Froelich, sophomore quick try after swinging the Anchored by tight defense pletely shut out the Wolverines Sunday morning to take on Matt Farrar, freshman Dylan ball to the outside around the and consistent support in open in the first by not allowing a Purdue University in their first Brandt, freshman Gabe Griggs Irish defense. However, the play, the Irish took control in single goal. In the second and race of the spring season. The and freshman Grant Tobin, Irish pulled it together and at the second half. Wing forward third quarters, the Irish contin-third-varsity eight began the from stroke to bow, finished the beginning of the third quar-senior Nick Severyn scored ued to hold a lead, at 4-3. In day for the Irish. Coxed by sen-well behind Purdue’s first boat, ter when senior Theresa Yerkes after recovering a kick deep in the fourth, Michigan made a ior Chris Bennett, with senior but with a strong sprint they stole a pass from a Chicago Buckeye territory. Winger huge comeback, scoring four Kevin Quigley, senior Phil finished second with a time of player and scored another try. Byron Henry and center Tyler goals and putting up a solid Brunner, sophomore Jim Ropa, 6:55.0, about 15 seconds ahead 
Later in the same quarter, “Tuna” Plantz notched tallies of defense. The Irish could only senior Jon Repine, freshman of the Purdue’s second entry in Chicago made an attempt to their own following disciplined manage two goals, and lost the Joe Krug, Michael Neuberger, the race. come back, but Stanley stopped Irish drives. As time expired, game 7-6. graduate student Chris Connair The first and second varsity that attempt with another Irish Plantz added a second try, and At the beginning of the final and sophomore Matt Planell, eights of the men’s club will try. Toward the end of the Peterson finished three of six match, the Irish dominated from stroke to bow, the eight travel to San Diego on fourth and final quarter, junior on conversions. The Fighting Loyola Chicago both offensively placed second overall between Thursday afternoon to chal-Margot DeBot powered through Irish emerged victorious 36-8 and defensively. During the the two Purdue boats with a lenge some of the top crews in the Chicago defense to put over the Buckeyes. first quarter, Notre Dame time of 6:30.1. the nation at the annual San another five points on the Next week the Irish will take scored five goals and allowed The varsity eight event was Diego Crew Classic on April board for the Irish. Stanley on the Aggies from Texas A&M none. In the second quarter, next for the Irish. After taking 2nd and 3rd. Live online attempted the kick for the extra in the first Notre Dame home Loyola only managed one goal an early lead off of the start, streaming of the entire regatta points on this final try and match of the season. while the Irish were stopped the crew coxed by sophomore will be available at http://crew­missed. The Irish kept playing defensively. The third quarter Greg Obee, with junior Garrett classic.org/video/ hard on defense after that final Men’s Water Polo proved to be good for the Irish, Campbell, senior Greg Flood, try and prevented Chicago from Notre Dame opened its as graduate student Sebastian senior Michael Maggart, junior Gymnastics scoring any more. Alumni Tournament against St. Testero, Fordonski and senior Brent Shawcross, senior Cliff This past weekend, the 
The Irish are much improved Louis University. SLU went up Clarke Madigan all scored goals Roberts, junior Tim Parks, sen-Gymnastics Club of Notre Dame from their first friendly game of in the first quarter by scoring to put the Irish ahead, 8-3. In ior Sean Gibbons and senior and Saint Mary’s traveled to the season to this game. Both three goals while the Irish the final quarter the Irish Michael Wagner, from stroke to Ypsilanti to compete in Eastern defensive and offensive align-could only manage one. The scored twice more and earned bow, increased the margin to a Michigan University’s annual ments are much better and the second quarter was a defensive a 10 – 6 victory. boat-length after the first Michigan Madness meet. The Irish were able to win almost battle with both teams scoring 500m. The Irish eight meet featured 16 teams and all of their offensive rucks. once. In the third quarter, SLU Men’s Volleyball increased its lead throughout strong competition. This was Though the Irish still have came out strong and quickly The men’s volleyball team the race, finishing first with a one of the strongest perform-many improvements to make in scored a goal. SLU failed to travelled to Ohio State this time of 6:12.0, about 11 sec-ances for the Irish gymnasts, the next three weeks, they are score again for the rest of the weekend to compete in the onds ahead of Purdue, the especially from the women. quickly becoming ready for the quarter thanks to the solid annual MIVA tournament. The largest defeat in the day’s var-Saint Mary’s freshman Kelsey National Tournament Round of defense played by goalkeeper Irish had a rough start sity events. Teske once again posted a 16 in San Diego and are look-and sophomore captain Tate Saturday morning, losing to The club’s second varsity strong all-around score with a ing forward to their next Kernell. Iowa (25-21, 23-25, 11-15) and eight, coxed by sophomore 32.2. Strong scores were also friendly match on April 2 at In the last 30 seconds of the Illinois (23-25, 19-25), but Rebecca Holmberg, with junior posted on floor for the Irish Indiana University. quarter, junior captain Dan fought hard after a long break Jamie Baffa, sophomore Mike women with a 9.2 from Irish 
Geisman drew a kick out put-to get wins over Cincinnati (25-Benvenuti, senior Graham junior Sarah Cole and a 9.3 Men’s Rugby ting the Irish up by a man. 21, 25-20) and Baldwin-Boechler, sophomore Brian from Irish freshman Emily 
The Irish men’s rugby club Notre Dame called a timeout Wallace (28-26, 25-8). Appleton, sophomore David Siebert. The women also scored traveled to Cincinnati, Ohio, and set up offense at the other Sophomore Rob Bauer Link, senior Kurt Krautmann, especially well on vault with this weekend to challenge end of the pool. After running earned all conference honors sophomore Curtis Kovaleski scores of 8.2, 8.35, 8.4, and 8.6 Midwest rival Ohio State at the “shift” play, senior captain on Saturday. He proved why and Charlie Janini, from stroke from Irish senior Kristin Smith, Moeller High School. The Matt Fordonski received the during each game, constantly to bow, was unable to hold its Irish sophomore Bryanna stands were full for the charita-ball and scored a skip shot into being the go to hitter in tough early lead on Purdue’s eight, Bocardo, Saint Mary’s junior ble event featuring the Notre the upper left corner putting situations and carrying the finishing second with a time of Elizabeth Bonne and Teske, Dame-OSU tilt, as well as the game at 5-3, SLU . During Irish to victory. Thanks to the 6:16.1, one-tenth of a second respectively. match between Moeller and St. the final quarter the Irish strong finish on Saturday, the behind Purdue. The Irish men also performed Xavier High School. The event attempted a major comeback, Irish were in a good position to The men’s novice team had well, highlighted by Irish junior was organized by the Moeller with Geisman tying the game at place well in Sunday’s tourna-its first test in the 2000m Mike Hannigan’s all-around Rugby Club to benefit the Cris 6 – 6. With 1:45 left SLU stole ment. spring race format. The first score of 52.8. The men also Collinsworth Proscan Fund for the ball and counter attacked Facing off against Purdue in novice eight, coxed by senior posted strong scores on rings health awareness and to put them in the lead and the first match Sunday morn-Kate von Hoffman, with fresh-with a 10.9 from Irish senior research. eventually gain the victory, 7-6. ing, the Irish seized victory and man Matt Rhodes, freshman Patrick Gorman and an 11.2 
The Irish opened play in the The Notre Dame Men’s team an opportunity to advance to Tomas Abrate, sophomore Zach from Hannigan. first half battling a fierce head-faced the Notre Dame Men’s the final four, winning 25-21, Weber, freshman Jeff McLean, The team’s next and final wind and brisk temperatures. Alumni team in a friendly 25-17. Unfortunately, the Irish sophomore Brian Kwak, fresh-competition will be the NAIGC Following several unsuccessful match. A few alumni returned were then matched up against man Austin Swift, freshman Nationals Meet held in attempts to clear the ball from from the previous year to play, one of the best teams in the Anthony Krenselewski and Richmond, Virginia from April deep inside Irish territory, the with additional players provid-country, Indiana. The Irish had freshman Alec MacDonell, from 6-1. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

17702 Douglas Rd If you or someone you care about Guess what? I have flaws. What are Outlined against a blue-gray has been sexually assaulted, we they? Oh I donno, I sing in the October sky, the Four Horsemen FOR SALE South Bend NOTICES can help. For more information, visit shower? Sometimes I spend too rode again. In dramatic lore their 
Newly Renovated Notre Dames website: much time volunteering. names are Death, Destruction, Home in Clay Twship-less than 3mi http://csap.nd.edu Occasionally I'll hit somebody with Pestilence, and Famine. But those to ND. 3 Bed/2 Full Bath UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't my car. So sue me — no, don't sue are aliases. Their real names are $75K. 2BR 1BA. 2,312 SF go it alone. Notre Dame has many me. That is opposite the point I'm Stuhldreher, Crowley, Miller and Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30 2 Ponds Creek resources in place to assist you. If WANTED trying to make. Layden. They formed the crest of pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, nice you or someone you love needs ———————————————— the South Bend cyclone before deck and firepit. Lots of Parking Walk to Campus confidential support or assistance, which another fighting Army team Wood heat. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. Earn Extra Money Students needed Allan "Brownbear" Joseph is seek-was swept over the precipice this New furnace and water heater. Low 50+ Photos on web ASAP. Earn up to $150 per day ing applications for his 2011 Yacht afternoon as 55,000 spectators taxes. For more information, visit ND's being a Mystery Shopper. No Dance date. Interested parties may peered down upon the bewildering 
17702douglas.com 574-876-8596 website at: http://pregnancysup-Experience Required. apply at ajoseph2@nd.edu panaroma spread out upon the Call 574-261-2357 port@nd.edu Call 1-888-534-5008 Seriously, it's a good time. green plain below. ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 
Tuesday, March 29, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
CLUB SPORTS 

Notre Dame hosts cyclists 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame hosted more than 250 cyclists from Missouri, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois and Ohio this weekend in the first ever MWCCA Racing event held in South Bend. 
A Saturday road race was fol­lowed by a Sunday Criterium held near the Hall of Fame in down­town South Bend. 
Notre Dame “A” finished sixth while Notre Dame “B” and Notre Dame “C” placed in the top-10 in their events during the team tri­als. 
Sophomore Joe Magro finished 13th in the “A” road race. Magro shared the lead with three profes­sional riders for the first 30 miles before getting caught with a lap to go. Collegiate cyclists are permit­ted to turn professional and still compete in collegiate events, and approximately 50 racers in this event were professional. 
Graduate students Doug Ansel, Matt Prygoski and Neil Griggs also represented the Irish in the “A” division. 
In her first race of the year, sen­ior Jenn Perricone placed among the top-five in the women’s “A” race. In the “C” race, sophomore Brian Hurley finished in the top­10, graduate student Andrew O’Donnell in the top-20 and fresh­man Josh Corcoran among the top-25. 
In the “A” Criterium, Prygoski and graduate student Brian Boyle ranked top-20 and Griggs top-30. Perricone again finished in the women’s “A” top-five. 
O’Donnell took fourth in the “C” Criterium, with Hurley in the top­10 and Corcoran in the top-20. Sophomore Rob Piscatelli was among the top-15 in the “D” Criterium. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame hosted its Freshman Icebreaker this week­end on St. Joe's Lake. In light winds and cold temperatures, they were able to sail 12 races in each division. The Irish fielded three boats — ND Gold, ND Blue and ND Green. ND Gold placed second overall, with freshman skipper Annie Schoenwetter and freshman Carter Perrin placing second in A's, and freshmen skip­per Peter Roehmholdt and Maria Skorcz placing second in B's. 
ND Blue placed fourth overall, with sophomore skipper Tom Temmerman and sophomore Lauren George placing third in B's and freshman skipper Phil Hootsmans and Lucy Smith sailing A's. 
ND Green placed fifth, with sophomore skipper Duggan Everage and senior Tess Wolfenson placing third in A's. Sophomore skippers Blaize Hrabrick and freshman Jacob Forney sailed B’s with freshmen Wyn Sullivan and Katie Suarez. The order of finish was Michigan, ND Gold, Miami of Ohio, ND Blue, ND Green, Purdue Black and Purdue Gold. 
Women’s Water Polo 
The Irish Women’s Water Polo team traveled to Oxford, Ohio, this weekend to compete in the Miami Invite at the University of Miami (Ohio). The Irish began their weekend with a strong 15-7 victo­ry over the Hoosiers from Indiana University. 
They started off slow, but regained their strength at the end of the first quarter with an exclu­sion goal from senior Ali Durkin. Durkin led the offense with five goals from the whole-set. Junior Maisie O’Malley and sophomore Victoria Anglin helped put points on the board with four goals each. Senior Lizzie Gormley added two. Kasia Ahern set the tone of the Irish defense with four steals in the field. 
After a long break, the Irish came back strong with a 14-5 vic­tory over Purdue University. Senior Eileen Flanagan and fresh­man Sarah Fleming split time in the net to help lead the Irish to victory. O’Malley led the offense with five goals. Durkin added three, Gormley and junior Colleen Middleton had two and junior Danielle Guidry and Rosemary Kelley each added one goal. The unstoppable Irish defense was led by Gormley who proved her out­standing defense in the field with five steals. 
The Irish started off Sunday with a decisive 15-1 victory over Ohio University. The Irish dis­played their stellar offense once again with 11 players scoring in the game. 
Durkin, sophomore Savannah Hayes, Ahern, and sophomore Victoria Anglin each had two goals for the Irish. Guidry, O’Malley, junior Mary Kate Fidler, Gormley, Middleton, sophomore Adi Austgen and freshman Anastasia Hansen each added one. Fleming and Mary Fanslow split time in the net controlling the outstanding defense to lead the Irish to victory. 
The final game of the weekend was a tough 10-2 loss to rivals from the University of Michigan. The Irish had a slow start in the first quarter, putting them behind Michigan 4-0. Despite drawing several ejections, six from Durkin, the Irish were unable to convert these opportunities into points. O’Malley was able to get a point on the board for the Irish with a goal in the second quarter. The Irish scored again on a fast break by Durkin in the fourth quarter. O’Malley led the Irish defense with five steals. Gormley won three swim offs for the Irish. 
Women’s Rugby 
The Notre Dame Women’s Rugby Club defeated the Chicago Women’s team 24-12 at Notre Dame on Saturday afternoon in a friendly match in preparation for both team’s upcoming competitive seasons. 
The Irish fielded more players than they ever have with a total of 23 players. Almost every Irish player played at least two differ­ent positions in preparation for nationals. Both teams played hard the whole game, but Chicago could not keep up with Notre Dame’s speed and fitness. Once again, the Irish faced a physically larger team but they were able to hold their own in both scrums and rucks, and even won some of the other teams’ put-ins. 
Line-outs continued to be one of Notre Dame’s strengths, with jumpers senior Kathleen Stanley, sophomore Ashley Okonta and senior Gillian Allsup supported by a plethora of lifters stealing some of Chicago’s line-outs. 
see STANLEY/page 11 
MLB 
Bonds’ ex confirms alleged steroid use 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Kimberly Bell, her voice crack­ing, looked out at the court room and talked about the final stretch of her nine-year relationship with Barry Bonds. 
The greatest hitter of his era threatened "to cut my head off and leave me in a ditch," she said. "More than once." 
She said Bonds told her "he would cut out my breast implants because he paid for them." 
As for the Arizona house he had helped pay for, "he told me he would burn it down." 
Bonds' federal trial resumed Monday with nearly daylong testimony from his former mistress, who said the slugger attributed a 1999 elbow injury to steroids use. She also dis­cussed how Bonds became verbally abusive and said that his physique changed, offering a lurid description of his shrinking testicles, back acne, scalp hair that fell out and chest hair that turned gray. Such mental and physical symptoms are associated with 

Now Open Tilted Kilt Pub & Eatery 
1032 E. University Dr. Granger, IN 
Full service menu and bar, 32 TV’s, 
All sport packages Bring in any student ID and receive 10% off your food bill 
join our text club: text tkgfans to 74422 
steroid use. 
Prosecutors allege Bonds lied when he told a federal grand jury in 2003 that he never knowingly used per­formance-enhancing drugs. 
Bell met Bonds in 1994 and testified that from 1999 to 2001, "he was just increasing­ly aggressive, irritable, agitat­ed, very impatient." 
In testimony similar to that of former Bonds business part­ner Steve Hoskins last week, she said that in at least two different years at spring train­ing, she saw Bonds and per­sonal trainer Greg Anderson "go into a bedroom off the kitchen and close and lock the door." 
She said Anderson "would always have a little satchel with him." She saw those scenes played out multiple times. 
Prosecutors claim Anderson, who has been jailed for refus­ing to testify, repeatedly inject­ed Bonds with performance-enhancing drugs. 
Dressed in a gray pantsuit and white shirt, and with deep lines under her eyes, Bell answered 72 minutes of prose­cution questions and was pres­sured during 4 hours, 15 min­utes of questioning from the defense, who tried to portray her as a gold digger, a scorned former lover, a liar and the instigator of a mortgage fraud scheme. 
Defense lawyer Cristina Arguedas brought up an inter­view Bell gave Playboy and a television appearance on Geraldo Rivera. 
"You have taken many opportunities to disparage Barry Bonds ... in the most vulgar ways possible?" Arguedas said in a question that was more a statement. 
"Did you go on Howard Stern's radio show?" Arguedas continued. "Does he do any­thing that isn't vulgar?" 
When Arguedas repeated: "Did you say vulgar things about Barry Bonds?" Bell answered: "Please refresh my memory." 
With that, Arguedas took a break to talk with Allen Ruby, Bonds' lead lawyer. After a few moments, Arguedas told the court: "We're going to decline that opportunity to go into the gutter. No more ques­tions." 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 29, 2011 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

VCU continues improbable run to Final Four 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, VA. — Our time. Right now. 
That is the rallying cry Virginia Commonwealth University has adopted during its basketball team’s improbable nothing-to­lose, everything-to-gain run to the Final Four. 
The Rams are having blast and their confidence is growing with each win. 
“It comes from our personali­ties and coach (Shaka) Smart,” forward Bradford Burgess said. “He wants us to be out there loose and confident and aggres­sive. We’re out there playing with nothing to lose. It’s just been a fun ride and I think we showed how much fun we can have on the court every game.” 
The urban university once viewed as a mostly commuter school has toppled some of the college game’s elite programs. 
The Rams earned their way to this weekend’s semifinals in Houston with a 71-61 victory against mighty Kansas on Sunday in a game that rarely was as close as the final score. 
The Jayhawks led 6-0 early, and the Rams didn’t flinch. 
“We kept our composure and hit ‘em right back,” point guard Joey Rodriguez said. 
Smart, who has become one of the hottest names in coaching in only his second season, now boasts a 10-0 career record in postseason play; VCU went 5-0 to win the CBI last season. 
But this year’s success seemed unlikely when they finished 3-5 in February, and showed up at the Colonial Athletic Association tour­nament thinking they had to win it to make the NCAA field. 
Turns out they won just enough. 
VCU used a buzzer-beater from Jamie Skeen in the quarterfinals to slip past Drexel, and then played one of their best games to oust regular season champion George Mason, 79-63. 
Though they lost to Old Dominion in the championship, Smart sensed something differ­ent, and hearing their unexpect­ed at-large bid blasted by com­mentators has only fueled their run. 
“We knew that we had turned the corner as a team and that we were playing much better,” Smart said, referring to the Rams’ win that ended George Mason’s 16­game winning streak. And though he was unsure if VCU would get in, Smart said the Rams “felt like if we got the opportunity to play in the NCAA tournament, we could certainly make a run.” 
It is how they are doing it on that run that is really turning heads. 
Only Florida State, beaten on Burgess’ layin with 7 seconds left in overtime, has been close against the Rams’ pressing defense and 43.8 percent post­season 3-point shooting. 
Southern Cal lost by 13. 
Georgetown and Purdue by 18 each. And Kansas by 10. 
Now, Burgess said, the Rams feel there is nothing they can’t do. 
“As the wins kept coming, we’ve gained more confidence and we’ve just been saying, ‘We don’t want this ride to end,’“ he said. “Getting to Houston, why not try to go and win two games?” 
The Rams (28-11) face Butler (27-9) in the semifinals on Saturday night. The Bulldogs lost to Duke in the national champi­onship game last season, but the Rams won’t be intimidated. 
“We just have a lot of belief in each other,” Rodriguez said. “We believe in our skills and whatever coach teaches us and we go out there and perform. We’re not scared of anybody.” 
And the tournament has shown they don’t need to be afraid with the cast they bring: 
Skeen, who transferred after two seasons at Wake Forest, was the most outstanding player of the Southwest regional after scor­ing 26 points against the Morris twins, Marcus or Markieff. 
Rodriguez, the team’s steady, unquestioned leader, started his career playing alongside Eric Maynor — now with the NBA’s Oklahoma Thunder — for former VCU coach Anthony Grant. Rodriguez was so upset when Grant left for Alabama that he almost transferred. 
Then there are Burgess and Brandon Rozzell, both Richmond products who have the ability to take over on offense with their outside scoring, but have impact­ed games besides scoring. 
There’s Ed Nixon, the defensive stopper with a knack for making big shots. 
And of course, there’s Smart, 33, who looks too young on the sidelines with his shaved head and discarded jacket to be in charge. However, he has master­fully manipulated his team’s air of confidence to motivate them with pointed reminders of how people doubted them. 
“We’ve been able to flip all the negative things that people have said and the naysayers and some of that doubt, and we’ve been able to use that as motivation, and the only reason we’ve been able to use it is because we have a very naturally confident team,” Smart said. 

The coach said before every game they’ve shown clips of dif­ferent analysts picking VCU’s opponent to win. 
“If we didn’t have a really confi­dent group, that would be para­lyzing because our guys would see that and think, ‘Oh no, maybe we can’t do that,’“ Smart said. “But I know with our group, that’s not a problem.” 


Tuesday, March 29, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles maintain winning record despite 8-0 loss 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles suffered a tough 8-0 loss at Bethel Monday, bringing their record on the season to 8-3. “Every loss is a tough loss for us,” junior infielder Kate Mitchell said. “Bethel is always a good game and tonight we just could not produce runs on offense.” 
Saint Mary’s struggled early on, giving a quick run to the NAIA No. 23 Pilots due to an error in the first inning, the first of five errors the Belles would make throughout the game. The Pilots followed with runs in the second and fourth innings, bringing the score to 4-0 heading into the fifth. 
Bethel’s offense proved to be too much for Saint Mary’s in the fifth inning when the Pilots scored four runs on five hits, including a two-run double, capi­talizing on each the Belles’ errors. 
“The main struggle we faced in winning the game is indicated through the final score,” senior captain and outfielder Hayley Bojorquez said. “We had zero runs and you simply cannot win a game with zero runs.” 
Mitchell said a big problem was a slow start her team could not overcome besides entering the game ready to play. 
“We made a few errors in the beginning and even though we kept up our energy, we were just taken out of our game,” Mitchell said. “We tried capitalizing all at once instead of trying to put the ball in play and trying to make things happen little-by-little.” 
Freshman pitcher Callie Selner suffered her first loss, pitching through the fifth inning before junior relief Monica Palicki fin­ished off the sixth and final inning of the game. 
The Belles fell short at the plate, coming out with only one hit by Bojorquez. Junior center fielder Lauren Enayati came close on two occasions, once after being called out at first and again after a 10-pitch at-bat that went the other way. The Pilots scored their eight runs with seven hits. 
Mitchell believed her team never lost the intensity they pride themselves on, but struggled to follow through when it came to executing offensively. 
“We never lacked energy,” Mitchell said. “Mentally we were in the game the whole time, we just seemed to struggle at the plate.” 
Bojorquez said she hopes the team can move forward and regain its focus today when it hosts Manchester for a double­header and open their home sea­son. It will be Saint Mary’s first chance to compete on their home field after inclement weather forced the Belles to postpone two games last week against Goshen and North Park. 
“In softball it is easy to lose sight of our personal strengths when we make mistakes,” Bojorquez said. “We aim to work on maintaining our heads through every inning of every game we play.” 
Mitchell said she thinks her team will be able to overcome Monday’s struggles and turn things around today. 
“I think we need to go out there and be aggressive at the plate,” she said.” If we put the ball in play we'll make things happen.” 
The Belles will face Manchester this afternoon with a double­header beginning at 3:30 p.m. on the Saint Mary’s field. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

will hopefully bolster the 
Clay 
team’s confidence leading up to the beginning of con-
continued from page 16 
ference play against 
really well from Spring Break, ” senior catcher Alexia Clay said. “We dropped a couple of big games, but I still think we played pretty well except for a few details. However I think the team’s coming off that week really well and 
w e ’ r e  r e a d y  t o  s t a r t  t h e  
post-season off right.”  
T h e  t a l e n t e d  s q u a d  h a s  

had goals for the second half of their season in sight from day one. This week’s string of home match-ups Providence. The next test for the Irish will be Western Michigan (4 -18), who will face a re-ener ­gized Notre Dame squad. 
“We ended up having the weekend off because that’s how our schedule worked out, so I think we’ll all be rested up and ready to play,” Clay said. “Especially since conference games start this weekend that’s always a really exciting time for us. So everyone’s really excited to get the 
games going on Tuesday 
a n d  T h u r s d a y  a n d t h e n  
s t a r t  c o n f e r e n c e  o n  
Saturday.”  

Notre Dame and Western Michigan last faced off last year in Kalamazoo, where the Irish trampled the Broncos 13 -4 in six innings. The Irish will look to do the same tonight and extend their home win streak to 22 straight. 
The Irish will take to the diamond to face Western Michigan at Melissa Cook Stadium at 6 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles face Albion in hopes of continuing streak 
By JACK HEFFERON  battled back and is continuing to improve.  in the beginning, which were difficult and she also started  tom, but especially outstand­ing is their star senior Shelley  play happens quickly with an 8-game set, so you have to be  
Sports Writer  “Franca Peluso, who was  off the season with an injury.  Zamler, whom Hurley will be  ready to play your best from  
our  No. 3 singles player last  She is getting stronger and  matched against.  the start.  We are stronger in  
The weather isn’t the only thi ng he at ing up i n South Bend. The Belles have won five of their past seven match­es, and with MIAA conference play opening against Albion toni g ht , the y hop e to kee p rolling. Saint Mary’s (5-4) early suc­ce s s ha s b een a gradua l proce s s , and t h e t ea m h as grown both throu g h the ir matches and through practice. While much of that growth has been from the four starting freshmen, the Belles’ two sen­ior c apt ai n s al so use d the early season to hit their stride. Seni o r c apt ain Fra nc a Peluso missed three matches and much of the preseason due to injury, but has since  year, is getting stronger every more flexible in how to win d ay a n d i s g et-m at c h es and I ting stronger in think her experi­doubles, as well,” “[Albion’s] number ence will hel p Belles coach Dale h er alon g t h e one player is veryCampbell said. w ay. She has tough — an allA not h er bi g the skills to beat contributor was MIAA frst team any player in our the Belles’ other conf erence on athlete — but she is c apt ai n , se nior any given day.” beatable.” Jillian Hurley. As After the rocky Saint Mary’s top 1-4 start in sin­si n g les play er, Dale Campbell gles play, Hurley Hurle y was won four singles Belles coach forced to battle m at c h es in a not on ly g rea t row and is a big competition, but also a nag-pa r t of Sa int Mary ’s h o t ging injury early in the year. streak. “Jillian i s get ting more Both Hurley and the Belles match tough, so she is getting will face a stiff challenge from b ett er w ith e v ery m atc h,” Albion (4-1), though, in their Campbell said. “She played a MIAA opener. The Britons are few nationally ranked players a solid team from top to bot­ “Their number one player is very tough — an all MIAA first te am at h let e — but she i s be at able, ” C ampbell s ai d. “Many of their other players are incoming freshmen and other underclassmen, but we always expect a tough chal­lenge from them.” The key for the Belles in this match and throughout confer­ence play will be the contin­ued improvement of their play a n d tea mw o r k in d o ub les matches, Campbell said. The Belles are 14-13 in doubles play in the season, compared to a 34-20 record in singles. “We always tell our team that they n eed t o be more aggressive in doubles and to get our opponents reacting to us,” Campbell said. “Doubles  singles, but we’re progressing in doubles.” Cam p bel l a nd t h e Belle s hope that their early season performances carry over into the conference, and that a vic­tory over Albion will be the start to a MIAA championship run. “I think we have been well p r epar ed by pla yi n g a few tougher teams such as Case Weste r n and Di ck ins o n ,” Campbell said. “We have had enough match experience, but the feel of conference play is a bit different.” The Belles and the Britons will square off at Eck Tennis Pavilion tonight at 5:30 p.m. Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu  


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 29, 2011 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer  
Irish junior guard Fraderica Miller dives for the steal during Notre Dame’s 73-59 victory Dayton, Ohio.  over  Tennessee Monday in  

Novosel 
continued from page 16 
nine-point lead with 15:31 to play. 
Notre Dame would lead by as much as 15, and its lead never fell below four. 
“We knew any time we made a run, they were going to make a run,” Diggins said. “We just had to make more.” 
Tennessee point guard Meighan Simmons, the SEC freshman of the year, picked up her second foul just four minutes into the game, and spent most of the first half on 7-0 run to take the lead at 14 -13 before a Becca Bruszewski jumper re-started the Irish scoring. 
From there, Bruszewski and Diggins powered Notre Dame to a 29 -24 halftime lead. 
Senior forward Devereaux Peters re-entered the game with four fouls with nearly six minutes to play. She lent four points to a 7-0 Irish run that put Notre Dame up 60­48 with 3:37 left, and com­mitted her fifth foul with 1:27 to play. 
“She played like a senior,” McGraw said. “We got a lot out of her in those four min­utes.” 
Peters had seven points and five rebounds in just 17 min­utes. Novosel finished the game with 17 points, five assists and four rebounds, and senior guard Brittany Mallory had 10 points. 
“Every one of our starters is the MVP,” McGraw said. 
The win is the first over Tennessee in Notre Dame program history. The Irish 
w e r e  0 -2 0  a g a i n s t  t h e  
Vo l u n t e e r s  c o m i n g  i n t o  
Monday’s game.  

Notre Dame advances to the Final Four for the first time since its championship sea­son in 2001. It will play the winner of Tuesday ’s game between No. 1-seed Connecticut and No. 2-seed Duke on Sunday in Indianapolis. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Flames 
continued from page 16 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “More than anything else I want to see the quality of our at-bats with runners in scor­ing position improve. I think we have thrown some at-bats away there and that is the tale of the season at this point.” 
The Irish (9-12-1) were 3­13 with runners in scoring position — all while leaving eight runners on base. 
Notre Dame blew an oppor­tunity to tie the game late in the bottom of the seventh after senior right fielder Herman Petzold started the inning off with a single. Sophomore designated hitter Adam Norton then advanced Petzold to second on a sacri­fice bunt. After a wild pitch advanced Petzold to third, senior pinch hitter David Casey walked, putting run­ners at the corners for the top of the lineup. But sopho­more second baseman Frank DeSico softly grounded out to second to end the threat. 
The Flames held the lead the entire game, starting in the second inning after fresh­man starter Anthony McIver (1-2) walked the leadoff bat­ter, who scored on a ground-out by Flames freshman left fielder Jon Ryan. Ryan later added a two-run double in the fourth that widened the lead to 3-0. 
The Flames added another run in the top of the ninth after a costly fielding error by senior third baseman Greg Sherry allowed the leadoff man to get aboard. After a sacrifice bunt by Flames sophomore first baseman Joe Betcher advanced the runner to second, redshirt senior second baseman Matt Serna lined an RBI single to right field but was thrown out at second trying to advance. 
But freshman right-hander Sean Fitzgerald kept the Irish within striking distance after he relieved McIver in the 6th inning. The reliever pitched four strong innings, including a stretch where he retired eight consecutive batters and struck out six, utilizing a commanding fastball. 
“I thought [Fitzgerald] pitched really well. He struck a bunch of guys out and com-the bench. Starting forward Glory Johnson also missed time after two early fouls. 
Simmons, who leads her team in scoring with 13.8 per game, did not score until late in the second half, and fin­ished the game with two points on 1-of-11 shooting. 
“You could just tell this was 
manded the strike zone well. That was the difference between he and [starting pitcher Anthony McIver] was that he had a lot of advan­tage counts. [McIver] was in a lot of hitters’ counts and the end result was a performance that wasn’t bad, but wasn’t great while [Fitzgerald] had a great outing for us.” 
The Flames added an insur­ance run in the top of the ninth after Sherry committed a costly fielding error, allow­ing the leadoff man to get on base and eventually score. 
The game didn’t end with­
out 
some drama, though, after DeSico lined a two-out RBI single to center to make the score 5-3 and bring the winning run to the plate. But senior shortstop Mick Doyle struck out with men on sec­

ond 
and third to end the game. 


The Irish will try to rebound tonight against Central Michigan as they send sophomore right hander Adam Norton (0-1) to the hill at 5:35 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agaste11@nd.edu 
a big game that seemed dif­ferent for her,” Volunteers coach Pat Summitt said. “I 
t h o u g h t s h e  w a s  o v e r a n x  - 
ious.”  
Notre Dame got  out  to  an  

early 13-7 lead, but lost it amid a stretch of nearly seven minutes without scor­ing. The Volunteers went on a is incredible because we are talking about a kid who 
Title 
literally has a chance to 
continued from page 16 win a medal at the Olympics this year… It was 
its depth and resolve. At the NCAA championships, freshman Ariel DeSmet defied the odds and cap­tured the gold medal in the weapon, matching Meinhart ’s performance from 2010. 
“Our foil team is absolutely unbelievable,” said senior sabreist Avery Zuck. “Take Ariel [DeSmet] 
— here is a kid that is a freshman, and came out and performed just as well as Gerek did. He completely eliminated that loss, which definitely a big hit when we heard that he was out, but there was not a better place to take that hit than on our foil team.” 
Despite DeSmet ’s gold medal in the men’s foil and another gold tacked on by junior Courtney Hurley in the women ’s epee, Bednarski stressed that Notre Dame’s path to the championship had its ups and downs. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 



Tuesday, March 29, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

MATING RITUAL DAVID MOMONT 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, March 29, 2011 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Final Four bound 
Irish take down Vols 73-59 on their way to NCAA Final Four 
By LAURA MYERS 
Senior Sports Writer 
DAYTON, Ohio — They donned their new caps, pulled their new T-shirts over their green jerseys and danced the Irish jig with their fans. 
Then, the Irish climbed a ladder and cut down the net, a physical reminder of their 73-59 victory over top-seed­ed Tennessee, a win that sends them to the program’s first Final Four since 2001. 
Becca Bruszewski was the last player to cut a strand, and hers stuck as she tried to pull it off the hoop. 
But just like Monday ’s game, the senior forward wouldn’t let that piece of rope out of her grasp. 
After injuring her knee Saturday against Oklahoma, Bruszewski was listed as questionable to start the game Monday. 
Not only did she start, but she played 37 minutes and finished the game with 13 points and eight rebounds. 
“Becca, she just won’t quit, ” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “She is absolutely relentless. … She is the most mentally tough player I’ve ever seen.” 
Bruszewski was named to 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Junior guard Natalie Novosol drives to the basket as the Irish cruise past Tennessee 73-59 to earn a berth in the Final Four Monday in Dayton, Ohio. 
the all-tournament team for the Dayton Regional. Junior guard Natalie Novosel made the team as well, and sopho­more point guard Skylar Diggins was named the region’s Most Outstanding Player. 
Diggins probably earned a good number of votes for her 
BASEBALL 

Hitting woes cost Irish yet another close loss 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior outfielder Matt Grosso connects during Notre Dame’s 4-3 loss to Georgetown Sunday in South Bend. 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
The bug has caught the Irish again — an epidemic that has soured solid Notre Dame pitching performances thus far this season. 
A lack of timely hitting once again proved to be the decid­ing factor in a 5-3 loss to Illinois -Chicago Monday night. Despite out-hitting the Flames (10 -10), the Notre Dame offense couldn’t get a hit when it counted for most 
of 
the night, squandering opportunities with multiple runners in scoring position. 

“I think there were a few situations where we had the 

opportunity 
to cash a few things in and if we can figure out how to get two-out RBI’s we would’ve been alright,” 


see FLAMES/page 14 

performance Monday night as she scored 24 points and had four assists and four steals. 
“Skylar was magnificent running the show today,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
After Tennessee forward Shekinna Stricklen opened the second half with four points to make the score 29­28, Diggins answered with five straight to re-open the lead. Layups from Bruszewski and Novosel along with another Diggins 3-pointer gave the Irish a 
see NOVOSEL/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOFTBALL 
Irish look to extend win streak 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
After several weeks of road trips left the Irish less than satisfied, it’s safe to say that the team is happy to be competing at home this week as it takes on Western Michigan tonight. 
Notre Dame (17-6) extend­ed a home winning streak Friday in its 4-1 home open­er win against Northern Illinois, gracing Melissa Cook Stadium with her 21st straight victory. The Irish are now primed for the string of home matches that begin tonight and carry on to Thursday and the week­end, when they will face Purdue (19 -7) and Providence (11-17), respec­tively. 
After enduring a frustrat­ing spring break in California that exposed a few weak spots, the Irish appeared to be back on track with Friday’s victory. Notre Dame showed batting efficiency, grace under pressure, strong defense and outstanding pitching that marked a total team effort. 
“I think we’re coming off 
see CLAY/page 13 
FENCING 
ND coach: ‘It’s a great day’ 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
After four frenzied days of competition at the NCAA championships, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski could finally reflect on his team’s season, which ended in a national title. 
“For our program, it’s a great day,” he said. “It’s not only a great day, it’s a great year.” 
The season started with great promise, as the Irish fencers brought back strong results from international tournaments throughout the world. 
Junior foilist Gerek Meinhart captured head ­lines when he took bronze at the World Fencing cham­pionships, becoming the first American to ever win a medal in the event. 
“It [was] a huge accom ­plishment, like winning the Super Bowl,” Irish foil coach Gia Kvaratskhelia said at the time. 
However, on the same day the Irish earned the No. 1 national ranking, Bednarski was informed that, due to injury, the team would be 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Junior Courtney Hurley discusses Notre Dame’s national championship in fencing during a press conference Monday. 
without Meinhart for the rest of the season, endan­gering Notre Dame’s title hopes. 
As the season progressed, the team persevered without its all-world foilist, continu­ing to post strong results in matches against top compe­tition. 
“I started to be not fully, but a bit optimistic, that the absence of Gerek Meinhart would not hurt us as much as expected, ” Bednarski said. 
Without Meinhart, the tal­ented Irish foil team showed 
see TITLE/page 14 





