the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Shirt Project benefits ND, charity 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Far away from the runways of Milan and the boutiques of Paris, Notre Dame will host a fashion event of its own Friday at The Shirt Unveiling. 
The festivities, which begin at 4 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, will reveal the 22nd installment of the signature Notre Dame clothing item. The event will feature Irish coach Brian Kelly, the Glee Club, the Notre Dame cheerleaders and other student groups. 
Junior Lauren Marzouca, president of The Shirt Project 2011, said the group hopes to sell 20,000 Shirts over the weekend and more than 150,000 overall. Despite the huge sales, she said most students are not aware of the goals The Shirt Project helps fund. 
“I know that so many peo­ple are unaware, and it ’s such a profitable and amaz­ing thing that I think it is extremely necessary to get the point across,” Marzouca said. 

Half of the revenue from the sales goes to The Shirt Charity Fund, which aids stu­dents with extraordinary medical conditions, Marzouca said. 
“By paying medical bills on behalf of the students, The Shirt Charity Fund allows Notre Dame students to con­tinue their education and recuperation without the fear of not being able to return the next semester because of financial limitations,” she said. 
The other half is donated to student clubs, organizations and residence halls. 

Marzouca said $100,000 is designated for The Rector Fund, where rectors can request money for students 
see SHIRT/page 5 


Candlelight tradition returns 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
As students, alumni and their families gear up for the annual Blue -Gold Game Saturday, they can also look forward to the return of a beloved football weekend tra­dition — candlelight dinner in the campus dining halls. 
Marc Poklinkowski, general manager of South Dining Hall, said candlelight dinners have been a staple accompanying Notre Dame football week­ends for at least 25 years. 
“Since there is such a rich tradition with Notre Dame football, the managers of the dining hall wanted to tie in an event to make it special for 
see CANDLE/page 5 


Students wear class rings to show pride, ‘solidarity’ 
rings. required to complete 50 per-school. uncle’s fellow college alumni 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 

But the shamrock-embel-cent of their work before “My dad showed me his easily recognized him when 
News Writer 

lished ring is much more they qualify to purchase a class ring when I got into he wore his class ring. Davis than a piece of jewelry. ring. The website said it ver-Notre Dame, except his was wanted to experience that 
Notre Dame ’s legendary According to Notre Dame’s ifies all orders to confirm from Tennessee,” Davis said. same sense of camaraderie ‘ring by spring’ tradition has official class ring website, customer eligibility. “I also bought a high school with fellow Notre Dame invaded campus once again, only alumni and juniors and Junior Drew Davis said he class ring, so I got a college graduates. though not in the usual sense seniors who have earned at wears his Notre Dame class one too. This is how I show “I wanted to have people of the phrase, as sophomores least 60 credit hours are eli-ring with pride because it my solidarity.” recognize it and say, ‘Oh, recently received information gible to purchase the ring. simultaneously represents Davis said when he was to order Notre Dame class Graduate students are love for his family and younger he noticed how his see RINGS/page 5 

Judge expunges record 
Observer Staff Report 
A St. Joseph County judge expunged the record Thursday of a former Notre Dame student who was accused of rape in 2009. 
Patrick Augustyn, now 22, was accused of raping a female stu­dent in his dorm room in the early hours of Feb. 23, 2009, according to court documents. 
Augustyn was charged with one count of rape, a Class B felony, in the St. Joseph County 
see EXPUNGED/page 4 



Professors reflect on budget deficit 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 

President Barack Obama presented his plan to cut $4 trillion from the nation’s budg­et deficit over the next 12 years Wednesday, but American Studies professor Bob Schmuhl said party polar­ization will continue to be an obstacle in alleviating the country’s economic woes. 
“Brinksmanship has certain­ly replaced bipartisanship in Washington,” Schmuhl said. “The conundrum is that Democrats don’t really want to make spending cuts, and Republicans don’t really want to raise taxes. Given that, get­ting to an agreement that sat­isfies both sides is probably beyond difficult.” 
Top members of Congress narrowly avoided a partial government shutdown last week by agreeing to a deal that would cut $38 billion in federal spending for the remainder of the 2011 fiscal year. Both the House and Senate approved the budget deal Thursday, sending it to Obama for final approval. 
But this short-term agree­ment will not achieve the country’s long-term debt goals, which includes the attainment of a national legal debt ceiling of $14.29 trillion in May, Nelson Mark, professor of eco­nomics, said. 
Mark said while both Obama’s plan and Congress’ deal promise to slash federal spending, the overall budget 

AP Representatives of Congress discuss a federal budget deal that was proposed last week. Congress passed the resolution Thursday. 
deficit will still be nearly insur­mountable in the near future. 
“Most of the budget is nondiscretionary spending, so even if you cut out all discre­tionary spending, that still wouldn’t balance the budget,” he said. “Then you have to go after entitlements. If you’re not willing to do that, you have to 
see BUDGET/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Judy Shepard speaks on hate page 3  Viewpoint page 8  St. Baldrick’s Day page 10  Baseball preview page 20 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, April 15, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kristen Durbin Kelsey Manning Mel Flanagan Eric Prister Marisa Iati Vicky Jacobsen 

Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT COLOR DO YOU HOPE “THE SHIRT” IS THIS YEAR? 









Andy Heck  Kevin Broderick  Victor Hernandez  Becky Sees  Amanda Rahie  Elena Rodriguez  
sophomore  freshman  freshman  junior  junior  sophomore  
Keough  Keough  Keough  Lewis  Lewis  Pangborn  
“Navy Blue  “Green and  “Navy blue  “As long as it’s  “Not orange.”  “Dark blue.”  
with a touch of  gold plaid.”  with some green  not yellow  
gold. Maybe  and gold pride.”  again.”  
some gray to  
mellow it out.”  


JAMES DOAN/The Observer 

South Bend Director of Public Works, Gary Gilot, center, speaks at IBM’s “Building a Smarter Planet for Future Leaders” informational session held at the Joyce Center Thursday evening. The event was aimed at preparing students for future jobs. 
OFFBEAT 

Thief steals pill bottle of beans 
PASCAGOULA, Miss. — A pharmacist in south­eastern Mississippi says some drug store burglar got a surprise when they broke into his business to steal the pain medication Lortab — the pills had been replaced with beans. 
Pharmacist Mac Clark works at Fred ’s Drug Store in Pascagoula and told WLOX TV the store has broken into several times in the past six months, and each time the burglars got Lortab. He decided he needed a decoy. 
He put kidney beans in a large Lortab bottle. Around 6 a.m. 
Wednesday, the burglars came back. The only thing stolen was the Lortab bottle filled with beans. 
Investigators believe the burglar cut him or herself during the break-in because they found a trail of blood leading away from the building. 
Police seek lobster rob­ber 
ROCHESTER, N.H. — Police in Rochester, N.H., would like to get their claws on a woman accused of shoplifting 14 live lobsters. 
Authorities released a surveillance photo Monday that shows the woman pushing a shop­ping cart near the front of the Milton Road Market Basket grocery store. 
Police tell the Foster's Daily Democrat that the woman entered the store Friday afternoon and asked for a selection of lobster from the clerk in the seafood department. 
Store employees say the woman received the lob­sters and then left the store without paying. She left in a blue van with a partial license plate “222.” 
Police Capt. Paul Callaghan says the 14 lift­ed lobsters amounted to about 16 pounds of seafood. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 






Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
WSND-FM will host its “50 Year Birthday Party” today from 12 to 4 p.m. on South Quad in front of O’Shaughnessy Hall. WSND will provide cake, refreshments and music. The event is free. 
The Class of 2012 presents the final day of The Bald and the Beautiful today from 4 to 8:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Students can shave their heads to fundraise for The St. Baldrick’s Foundation, donate eight inches of their hair to Pantene Beautiful Lengths or buy colored hair extensions to benefit the Memorial Hospital of South Bend. 
“The Shirt” Unveiling Ceremony will take place today at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Festivities begin at 4 
p.m. and “The Shirt” will be unveiled at 5:45 p.m. The cere­mony will feature refreshments, a chance to win prizes and appear­ances by Coach Kelly, the Notre Dame Marching Band, The Undertones and other campus organizations. The event is free. 
The Third Annual Mechantronic Blue and Gold Football Game will take place today from 7 to 8 p.m. at the Stepan Center. The game will be played by semi-autonomous ibots that senior mechanical engineer­ing students created as their final projects. The event is free. 
Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity will host Shack City on South Quad from 7 p.m. today until 7 a.m. tomorrow. Participants will build shacks out of boxes and sleep outside in them in order to raise awareness about homelessness. Participation costs $10 and interested students must register at habitat.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

monday tuesday 

Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Shepard speaks against hate 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

Judy Shepard, the mother of Matthew Shepard, a Wyoming resident who was murdered in an anti-gay hate crime 12 years ago, spoke at DeBartolo Hall Thursday night as part of Core Council’s StaND Against Hate Week. 
Core Council member Brandon Buchanan said the message they want to spread focuses on combating hate, not engaging in a religious or political debate. 
“This is not a political or ide­ological stance,” he said. “It is saying that hate is not okay for anything and asking what are we going to do about it.” 
Buchanan said the week’s events, including Shepard’s speech, allow members of the community to come together at events and engage in open dia­logue to provide individuals with the tools to create a bet­ter campus community for les­bian, gay, bisexual, transgen­der and questioning (LGBTQ) students. These events also help students become better allies for the cause. 
Shepard became an anti-hate and gay rights activist in the wake of her son’s murder. 

“I love and miss him more than I can express,” Shepard said. “He was my son, my first born, but more than that he was my friend.” 
Matthew Shepard was mur­dered in Laramie, Wyo., but his parents lived in Saudi Arabia at the time of his death. When they were informed of his hospitalization, they rushed home to see their son. 
“It was an society equally for creating an environment that made them think it was ok to do that. We as a society need to atone.” 
Shepard said American soci­ety wrongly treats the gay community like second-class citizens. 
“This is about civil rights, pure and simple. We deny them things we have no right 
to deny them,” 
she said. 
Shepard 


eternity of not said she wants 
“Matt is no longer 
knowing if Matt to promote 
with us because two 
was even still acceptance 
men learned that it is 
alive,” Shepard rather than 
okay to hate. Society 
said. “All I could just tolerance 
condones or is at 
see was Matt of diversity. 
least indifferent to 
alone on the “It’s just not 
violence against 
prairie and tied that hard,” 
people that are 
to a fence post she said. “This 
different.” 
for 18 hours.” is about When Shepard humanity and 
Judy Shepard
and her husband being kind. 
activist
arrived at their son’s side in Fort Collins, Colo., she could not recognize the figure lying in the hospital bed. 
“I wasn’t even sure it that was Matt,” she said. “But as I approached him, I could tell that this was my precious son.” 
Shepard said she recognized her son’s blue eyes, one of which was partially open, and a bump on his ear. 
“[But] the twinkle of life was­n’t there anymore,” she said. Matthew died two days after 
his family and friends came to Colorado to be with him. 
“Matt is no longer with us because two men learned that it is okay to hate,” Shepard said. “Society con­dones or is at least indifferent to violence against people that are differ­ent.” 
Shepard now uses Matt’s 

“Educate, educate, getting mar-educate. Bring light ried? You don’t where you see like gay wed-darkness, bring dings? Then freedom where there don’t have is fear because you one,” Shepard are who you are and said. “I’m not you love who you asking you to love.” become their new best Judy Shepard friend, I am activist asking you to 
story to combat hate against all minorities. She said igno­rance among the greater com­munity prevents the gay com­munity from achieving full equality. 
Although she blames her son’s murderers for his death, she also blames society. 
“Do I blame the young men who killed Matt? Of course I do,” she said. “But I blame You tolerate 
bad hair — 
you don’t tol­
erate people. You accept them.” 
In order to promote the end of hate crimes against the gay community and minorities in general, Shepard said every­one must work to remedy this issue by speaking with state representatives and voting. 
She said it is not a matter of liking gay people or not. Rather, it is a matter of respecting people for who they are and affording them the civil rights they deserve, espe­
cially the right 
to marriage. 
“You don’t 
like gay people 
grant them 
equal rights.” 
Overall, 
Shepard said the problem of hate could be changed through education and acceptance. 
“Educate, educate, educate,” Shepard said. “Bring light where you see darkness, bring freedom where there is fear because you are who you are and you love who you love.” 


Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 15, 2011 


GMAT,MCATchangeformat 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
Students planning to take the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) in the near future will have to adjust to proposed changes to both tests. 
The GMAT, which is used for admission to graduate business schools, will soon introduce a new section designed to test advanced reasoning skills, while the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) has announced possible changes to the MCAT. 
Such changes will likely have a significant effect on student preparation for these exams, including the test preparation companies that draw business from these students. 
“Preparing will now be more of a project as the test is now more challenging and competitive,” Andrew Mitchell, the director of pre-business programs for Kaplan Test Prep, said. “We expect to see challenges similar to those encountered in business school and in one’s business career.” 
The Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC) will launch the updated version of the GMAT on June 2, 2012. The revised test is designed to meas­ure a test-taker’s ability to evalu­ate information from a range of different sources and formats to better reflect the challenges in today’s information-rich environ­ment, according to the official GMAC website. 
The website said the overall length of the test, as well as the current verbal and math sec­tions, will remain unchanged. A new, separately scored integrat­ed reasoning section will replace one of the existing two 30-minute writing sections and will require test-takers to “analyze informa­tion from multiple sources, inter­pret information presented graphically, and discern relation­ships between data points.” 
Admissions officers and test prep companies will follow the latest version of the GMAT close­ly, Mitchell said. 
“Time will tell how business schools will evaluate the new GMAT, and at the end of the day, they are looking for an objective measure of how people will per­form in business school,” Mitchell said. 


The AAMC recently released preliminary recommendations for changes to the MCAT which, if accepted, would likely be implemented in 2015. 
The MCAT currently tests stu­dents on their scientific knowl­edge, including general chem­istry, organic chemistry, biology and physics. 
According to the AAMC’s web­site, the proposed changes reflect an effort to increase student readiness for the field of medi­cine and involve adding material on behavioral and social sciences principles, including topics such as cellular and molecular biolo­gy, biochemistry, research meth­ods and statistics and expanding the current verbal reasoning sec­tion to incorporate ethics, philos­ophy, cross-cultural studies and population health. The current writing sample would be elimi­nated. 
These recommended changes would extend the MCAT’s dura­tion from the current 5.5 hours to more than 7 hours. They will also affect undergraduate stu­dent preparation for the exam and may require curriculum adjustments in order to ade­quately prepare students for additional test material. 

Notre Dame is carefully reviewing the possible MCAT changes and the challenges they may present, Kathleen Kolberg, assistant dean of Undergraduate Studies at the Center for Health Advising, said. 
“We have not made any changes but are looking at the detailed reports to decided how best to respond,” Kolberg said. “We are very serious about get­ting students into medical school and will attack this in the most serious way.” 
Test preparation programs and services are also evaluating AAMC’s recommendations, Dr. Jeff Koetje said 
“These preliminary recom­mendations present certain chal­lenges for test takers,” said Dr. Koetje, director of academics for Kaplan Test Prep’s pre-health programs. “They are unique to the new format and concern the new time requirements as well as the new content. 
“We know pre-med students are dedicated to becoming doc­tors, and they will take on these challenges,” Dr. Koetje said. “Students need the support of their universities and advisors, and Kaplan is prepared to sup­port as we are working on plans to adjust the curriculum.” 

Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 
Kwok promotes interfaith dialogue 
By ABIGAIL FORNEY 
News Writer 
International theologian Dr. Kwok Pui Lan delivered the 26th annual Madeleva Lecture, titled “The Future of Interfaith Dialogue,” Thursday in the Carroll Auditorium of Saint Mary’s College. The lecture was spon­
sored  by  the  Center  for  
Spirituality.  
Kwok,  a  professor  of  

Christian Theology and Spirituality at Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Mass., discussed the develop­ment of interfaith dialogue through a refocusing of the approaches to interfaith issues of religious communi­ties and politicians in a post-secular world. 
She also addressed the role of colonization and missionary movements in forging inter­faith relations and the impact of women on interfaith discus­sions. 
“As women, we need to tes­tify,” Kwok said. “Since I was a teenager, I heard the Gospel differently.” 
Kwok said interfaith dia­logue is a crucial component in achieving world peace, but that the goal is impossible to achieve if the world does not recognize the religious beliefs of people in Third World countries. 
She said faith must be inte­grated into people’s daily lives. 
“Faith can never be separat­ed from other parts of life,” Kwok said. 
Diminishing the influence of Christianity and recognizing the other six major world reli­gions — Judaism, Islam, Confucianism, Buddhism, Hinduism and Shintuism — is crucial to fostering construc­tive interfaith dialogue, Kwok said. 
She said members of each faith must recognize that the major questions change from, “How can we talk with people previously termed ‘hea­thens?’” to “How are we going to work with our religious neighbors in [the] midst of poverty, war and violence?” 

Kwok added that current general attitudes about inter­faith dialogue indicate a posi­tive transition. She said the common phrase, “I am spiri­tual, but not religious,” consti­tutes a step in the right direc­tion. 
This current shift has allowed people to embrace new ways of thinking, such as combining Christianity with Buddhist meditation or Confucian theology. Some peo­ple even identify themselves as “recycled Christians,” using only the Christian practices they find useful, Kwok said. 
She said interfaith dialogue faces a challenge in dealing with the various existing reli­gious hierarchical structures, which makes it difficult to determine who has the power to speak for whom in the dis­cussion. 

Contact Abigail Forney at aforne01@saintmarys.edu 
Group raises awareness of human trafficking 
social justice in our society 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
through the principles of 
News Writer 
Catholic Social Teaching, Crowe said. 

Saint Mary’s students are “This class looks into committed to promoting social Catholic Social Thought and justice, but one special group how crucial it is for us to apply of students has incorporated what we learn in class to real that commitment into the aca-life,” Crowe said. demic lives of its members. Crowe and her classmates 
Sophomore Cailin Crowe is a have created several events student in Dr. Jan Pilarski’s and projects to spread aware-course “Christians in the ness about human trafficking. World,” a step towards fulfill-The class held a Tuesday ment of the justice studies showing of the documentary minor, which requires students “The Dark Side of Chocolate,” 
to  perform  which discusses  
either commu­ the ways choco­ 
nity service or  late companies  
start a cam-paign on cam­pus raising awareness for a social issue. Crowe opted to enlighten the Saint Mary’s c o m m u n i t y about the reali­ “Human trafficking is an issue few people are familiar with. There seemed to be great potential to educate the campus about a relativelyunknown problem with this project.”  like Nestlé and Hershey’s work with African cocoa planta-tion owners who use child trafficking to produce cocoa for those com­panies.  
ties of human t r a f f i c k i n g throughout the semester.  Dr. Jan Pilarski director Justice Education Program  Crowe said the students also sent post­cards to U.S.  

“The issue of human traffick­ing isn’t getting enough attention. This is an issue that is a very serious and pressing matter,” Crowe said. 
Human trafficking, or mod-ern-day slavery, is a global issue that involves the coerced labor of people, usually women or young children, for sexual or commercial purposes, Crowe said. Victims are often smuggled across international borders and may work without pay or fair working conditions. 
Pilarski, director of the Justice Education Program, supported Crowe’s decision to make the issue more widely understood on campus. 
“Human trafficking is an issue few people are familiar with,” Pilarski said. “There seemed to be great potential to educate the campus about a relatively unknown problem with this project.” 
Pilarski said her class is a learning-based experience in order to teach students how to apply classroom knowledge to their extracurricular activities. 
“The students in this class are studying the intersection of faith, justice and action this semester,” she said. “We use the praxis cycle in our course, which connects experience, social analysis and action.” 
The class project aims to help students understand the importance of working for 
Expunged 
continued from page 1 

District Courts on Aug. 19, 2009. Augustyn was arrested on campus Aug. 26, 2009, and The Observer reported he was no longer enrolled at the University on Aug. 31, 2009. 
The rape charge against Augustyn was dismissed in April 2010 because the alleged victim said he may have “had a reasonable belief that consent was given,” according to court documents. 
At the time of the alleged rape, both Augustyn and the female student were under the influence of alcohol after attending an off-campus party. 
Rep. Joe 
Donnelly that 
included shock­ing, little-known statistics of human trafficking and peti­tioned Donnelly to fight against human trafficking in Indiana and the United States. 
Crowe said the students are also negotiating with Dining Services to have fair trade chocolate sold at Cyber Café next semester to help the stu­dent body make socially responsible consumer choices. 
“So far, we have gotten a really good response,” Crowe said. “People seem genuinely interested in starting some­thing on campus to end human trafficking.” 
Despite the group’s initial success, Crowe said the group still wants to accomplish more, especially with involvement of the South Bend community in their efforts. By next fall, the group hopes to have an organ­ized club on campus. 
“We all have a responsibility to help these people,” Crowe said. “Our choices as con­sumers can affect the liveli­hoods of children and others around the world.” 
Students interested in joining the club or obtaining more information should contact Crowe at ccrowe01@saint­marys.edu 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
According to court docu­ments, a “no-contact” order between Augustyn and the female student was terminated when the charges were dropped. 
Expunging the record means no information about the charges or dismissal will exist on Augustyn’s public criminal record. 
The order for expungement demands that all files, photo­graphs and records regarding the case will be removed from the sheriff’s office, local and campus police departments, the prosecutor’s office and the clerk’s office. 
Court documents also show that no information about the case will be retained by the state. 

Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
mittee was able to help examining recent seasons for used the Golden Dome, for this year, Marzouca said design The Shirt 2011,” she inspiration. Touchdown Jesus, and iconic members of the Project are 

Shirt 

said. “In past years, however, “We usually consider color continued from page 1 usually the graphic designer from the most recent years, 
comes up with from the sen-who otherwise could not the graphic, and iors ’ fresh ­afford things integral to the the rest of the man-year fall Notre Dame experience, like committee asks “In more recent to their senior purchasing a class ring or for modifications years, we have fall, and try textbooks. and critiques focused more on the not to repeat 
The Shirt Project began in until the entire fans, the stadium, so that each 1990 to unify the student committee is football players of their Shirts body in the first game of the pleased with the themselves, golden from their season against Michigan, and final product.” helmets, four years Marzouca said the second Marzouca said cheerleaders and here will be year of the project began the last year’s Shirt the leprechaun.” very unique,” tradition of using money was second only she said. from the Shirt for donations. to 2006’s edition Lauren Marzouca From 2002 
Marzouca said The Shirt in terms of over-president to 2004, The Project ’s Financial all sales. The Shirt Project Shirt Management Board (FMB) “It sold over r e m a i n e d 
oversees all the proceeds 150,000 shirts, g r e e n . from the shirt sales and their making a profit Marzouca said distribution, which includes of [about] $600,000, ” she The Shirt Project noticed a the support of said. “To date, drop in sales and student student memo-The Shirt support by the third year. rial funds. Project has She added that student reac­
“FMB also raised roughly tion is also considered in the 
“The Shirt Project 
officially estab-$7 million.” design process. 
sells more of one 
lishes Memorial What many “We like to hear what col-
single designed 
Funds in the students don’t ors are most popular, and if 
clothing item than 
name of k n o w , students and fans understand 
any other service or 
deceased stu -M a r z o u c a how the quote ties in to the 
company in the 
dents,” she said. said, the sig -new football season, ” 
United States.” 
“Most recently, nificance of Marzouca said. “We take we established The Shirt what we’ve heard from the 
Lauren Marzouca 
a memorial in Project. previous year and then we 
president
the name of “The Shirt weigh it heavily when decid-Declan The Shirt Project Project sells ing what color to chose and Sullivan.” m o r e o f o n e which picture and quote will 
Marzouca said s i n g l e be most applicable.” the organization d e s i g n e d Over time, the image normally begins work in the clothing item than any other depicted on The Shirt has early winter but altered the service or company in the shifted from symbols associ­design process this year, United States,” she said. ated with the University to which takes four to five Marzouca said the organi-illustrations related to the weeks to complete. zation tries to vary the color football team, Marzouca said. 
“This year, the entire com-of The Shirt every year, “Many of the older Shirts coaches and traditional Notre Dame themes,” she said. “In more recent years, we have focused more on the fans, the stadium, football players themselves, golden helmets, cheerleaders and the lep ­rechaun.” 
Candle  “Our floor chefs do a great job of planning out the logis­tics in the kitchen to maxi- usually serves about 1,700 people during the hour follow-in g t he c on c l u sio n o f t h e  
continued from page 1  mize what we can produce with each  g a m e , P o k l i n k o w s k i  
the students,” he said. Poklinkowski said managers an d u n i t ch e f s fr o m b o t h North and South Dining Halls  pi e c e o f c o ok i ng e qu i p m e n t , ” he said. Student reaction  “They’redefinitely our busiest Saturdaydinners of the  said. A l t ho u g h t h e dining halls host o t h e r s pe c i a l  
meet during the summer to develop candlelight dinner  to the wide variety of dishes served at  year.”  events through-o u t t h e y e a r,  
menus for the upcoming foot- ca n d l e l i gh t  d i n - Marc Poklinkowski  s u c h  a s  
ball season. “ We l o o k a t the pre v ious year’s usage reports to what  n e r s h a s b e e n o v e r w h e l m i n g l y positive through- general manager South Dining Hall  Christmas Dinner an d th e Len t e n B u f f e t , c a nd l e - 
worked well and what didn’t,”  out the years.  lig ht  din n e r s  
he said. “Then  we  consider  “Some students  only take place  
new recipes to use to replace  have learned to get to the din- during home football game  
the items that weren’t very  ing halls very quickly after the  weekends, Poklinkowski said.  
popular  or  just didn’t work  game to beat the crowd,” he  “ T he y ’ r e  d e f i ni tely  o u r  
very well logistically.”  said. “Others wait it out and  busiest Saturday dinners of  
The cooks enjoy the chal­ come later after the craziness  t h e  y e a r, ”  h e  s aid .  
l e ng e  of  f o r m u l a t i n g  a n d  settles down.”  
c oo k i ng  n e w  r e c i p e s  e a c h  On  a  t y p i cal  f o o tb all  Contact Emily Schrank at  
year, Poklinkowski said.  Saturday, South Dining Hall  eschrank@nd.edu  
Rings  largely influenced by practi­cality and her previous atti­tude toward school memora­ and cross facing the student until graduation, the website said. After commencement,  
continued from page 1  bilia. “My choice not to buy one  graduates may turn the ring “to face the world.”  
you’re a Domer,’” he said.  was probably influenced by  A l t h o u g h D a v i s s t i l l h a s  
The website indicates the  n o t  b u y i n g  a  h i g h  s c h o o l  two  semesters  left  at  Notre  
recognizable ring  was  origi­ ring. I  never  felt  Dame, he said  
n a l l y  s o l d  a s  a  C l a s s  o r  like I  was  miss- h e  w i l l  
University Badge until 1931, when the University officially created the Notre Dame class r i n g . B u t t h e O f f i c a l Graduation Insignia of stu­dents and alumni underwent s e v e r a l c h a n g e s o v e r t h e years. The website said other ring  i n g o u t , ” s h e s a i d . “ P l u s , I don’t really wear a lot of rings.” Valko said she p r e f e r r e d t o s h o w h e r s pir i t in other ways. “ To m y s u r - “You can’t walk anywhere on campus without seeing the monogram, and I’ll think of all my friends here when I look at it.”  remember his t i m e a t t h e U n i v e r s i t y w h e n h e w e a r s h i s r i n g a f t e r graduation. “It’s an all-encompassing  
designs were manufactured, and technological advance­ments have allowed for finer  p r i s e , m y m o m w a s r e a l l y o n b o a r d w i t h t h e  Drew Davis junior  m e m e n t o o f my life here. I l i v e b y t h e  
d e t a i l i n g .  I f  a l u m n i  w h o  r ing ide a, but I  Dome, which  
graduated prior to 1972 still  c a n  f l a u n t  m y  i s  o n  t h e  
want  a  ring reminiscent of  Domerness in other ways,”  r i n g , ”  h e s a i d .  “ Yo u c a n ’t  
their Notre Dame days, the  Valko said. “I have the pen- walk anywhere  on  campus  
“Old Style  – pre ‘72”  cut is  dant necklace  we  got fresh- w i t h o u t  s e e i n g  t h e  m o n o - 
still available.  man  year, which I’ll  wear  to  gram, and I’ll think of all my  
But  some  graduates do not  interviews and Notre Dame  friends here when I look at  
feel  a  need  to  wear  a  class  events.”  it.”  
ring. Senior Katie Valko said  If a student chooses to pur­ 
her decision not to purchase  chase a ring, it is traditional- Contact Nicole Toczauer at  
t h e  N o t r e  D a m e  r i n g  w a s  ly worn with the school name  ntoczaue@nd.edu  

In choosing a theme for The Shirt, Marzouca said the committee tries to draw from the tradition of the University. 
“We usually try to use a quote that ties in important Notre Dame themes and lyrics,” she said. 
Though she did not reveal The Shirt’s color or the quote extremely pleased with their final product. 
“We worked really hard to stress unique Notre Dame traditions while still giving The Shirt 2011 a modern spin that incorporates feed­back from students, alumni and fans,” she said. “Each year the committee strives to come up with an original design that mirrors the eager anticipation of the upcoming football season. We feel that this year we’ve appropriately captured these emotions.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer  NEWS Friday, April 15, 2011 

Budget 
continued from page 1 
raise taxes, simple as that.” 
The ongoing debate over funding reform for entitlement programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security has become the point of increased party polarization because it directly relates to tax reform, Mark said. 
“The Republican right wing wants to privatize Social Security and Medicare while protecting corporate profits and tax cuts for the wealthy,” he said. “People are living longer now, but less people are working who can support the unrest in the Middle East, makes it hard for working peo­ple in the heartland to see what they can do to control their own fates.” 

Both Schmuhl and Mark said the politically charged budget debates in states like Wisconsin and Indiana are reflective of the general politics of the nation. 
“What’s happening in Washington is not all that dif­ferent from what we see in Indiana or Wisconsin with their state legislators,” Schmuhl said. 
“I was looking for a bigger backlash against the new Wisconsin politics,” Mark said. “If there isn’t a backlash in the near future, then at the national 
Social Security “What’s happening level, I think system, which in Washington is not we’re headed for creates a prob-all that different a right-wing Tea lem as the from what we see in P a r t y, Baby Boomer Indiana or Republican-dom­generati on Wisconsin with their inated agenda reaches retire-state legislators.” that will empha­ment age.” size privatization 
Schmuhl said Bob Schmul of some federal the entitlement American Studies professor programs.” 
debate repre­sents a long­term economic issue that will challenge the polarized political climate of the country in years to come. 
“It’s relatively easy to deal with the economic problems in the short term, but that carries you just so far,” he said. “At some point, the people in Washington are going to have to deal with [entitlements] directly. The question, of course, is whether or not this can be done with a divided gov­ernment.” 
Mark said America’s fiercely opposing political parties “draw strength from the mandate of their constituents” and magnify the wants and needs of those supporters, especially in rela­tion to the changing economic climate of the country and the world. 
“We just went through a severe recession crisis, so maybe, economically, the world is a scarier place than it used to be,” he said. “Geopolitical volatility, like the current Schmuhl said 

this extreme 
political polariza­
tion cannot go on forever, but it will have a signif­icant impact on the 2012 presi­dential election. 
“It’s hard to see a resolution of these problems going into a presidential election year, “ he said. “Every proposal or deci­sion from now until November 2012 will be viewed through the lens of electoral politics.” 
Mark said the current focus on the country’s short-and long-term budget problems is constructive, but significantly more effort and cooperation will be crucial to solving these problems in the future. 
“We need a tipping point because the problems need to be fixed, but a quick fix isn’t going to happen,” he said. “Hopefully thoughtful, useful ideas will help fix this in the long run, otherwise we might end up in a situation like that of Greece or Argentina.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

Federal jury convicts Jacques 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Mass. — A federal jury on Thursday convicted a 26 -year-old white man of burning down a predominantly black church in Springfield in the hours after Barack Obama was elected president in 2008, a crime prosecutors say was fueled by racist anger. 
The all-white, 12-member jury, which had been dead­locked on Wednesday, con­victed Michael Jacques of conspiracy against civil rights, destruction of reli­gious property and using fire to commit a felony. Jacques faces 10 to 60 years in prison when he is sentenced on Sept. 15 in 
U.S. District Court. 

Jacques and two friends were charged with burning down the Macedonia Church of God in Christ in the early morning hours of Nov. 5, 2008. The church, which is near all three men’s homes, was under construction at the time and no one was inside. A few firefighters, however, suffered minor injuries battling the blaze. 
All three men confessed to the crime and implicated each other. But Jacques later recanted his confes­sion, saying authorities wore him down during a nearly seven-hour interro­gation as he suffered with­drawal from addictions to Percocet painkillers and cigarettes. 
Prosecutors said during closing arguments that Jacques ’ racism reached the “boiling point ” when Obama was elected. They said he often used racial epithets, expressed anger that minorities were “taking over” the country and once set a dog on a black person. 
Jacques’ mother and sis­ter testified that he wasn’t a racist, saying the proof came in his love for his biracial nephew and in a former relationship with a Puerto Rican girlfriend. 
Relatives of Jacques and a few jurors cried when the verdict was announced at about 4:30 p.m. Jacques, who had been free on bond during the three-week trial, was ordered to report to federal marshals at noon Friday because Judge Michael Ponsor revoked his bail after the verdict. 
Jacques insisted on his innocence while leaving the courthouse. 
“They got it all wrong. I am not a racist,” Jacques said. 
His attorney, Lori Levinson, said she was dis­appointed with the verdict and plans to appeal to the 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston. 
The lead prosecutor in the case, Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul Smyth, said the government was pleased that all three men who started the fire now stand convicted. Benjamin Haskell was sentenced to nine years in prison in November after pleading guilty. Thomas Gleason pleaded guilty last year and awaits sentencing after testifying in Jacques’ trial for the prosecution. 
Smyth said that when the church was burning down that night, law enforcement officials hoped it was not an arson related to the elec­tion. “In the few days that followed, our worst fears were confirmed,” he said. 
Asked about Jacques say­ing the jury got it wrong and an appeal being planned, Smyth said, “The jury ’s verdict speaks for itself.” 
Smyth said it was too early to say how long a prison sentence he will rec­ommend to the judge. But he said federal sentencing guidelines call for about 15 years in prison, based on Jacques’ convictions. 
Jurors began delibera ­tions on Tuesday and told Ponsor on Wednesday that they were deadlocked on two of the charges. But the judge told them it was too early for a hung jury and asked them to start discus­sions fresh on Thursday morning. The convictions came after the seven women and five men asked the judge several questions, including requesting that the judge better define rea­sonable doubt and aiding and abetting. 
“Some of the jurors are having a hard time with the definition of reasonable doubt,” jurors said in a note to Ponsor at about 1:30 
p.m. Thursday. 
Ponsor said he could not define the terms beyond what he already told them in his instructions to the jury. 
The congregation contin­ues to worship at its long­time home on King Street. After the fire, it decided to rebuild on the same site and the new building is nearing completion. 
The church ’s leader, Bishop Bryant Robinson Jr., could not be reached Thursday. No one answered his home phone and a mes­sage was left at the King Street church. 
Robinson testified during Jacques’ trial that he and others were excited when Obama was elected as the country’s first black presi­dent. But he got a phone call from his brother at about 3:30 the next morn­ing saying the new church was on fire. 
Robinson said he spent the next several hours at the church watching it — and the congregation ’s dreams — burn to the ground. 
No congregation members were at the courthouse Thursday, and jurors left without commenting. 

Fort Sumter re-enactors ‘surrender’ on 150th anniversary 
Associated Press 
FORT SUMTER NATIONAL MONUMENT, S.C. — Re-enactors played “Yankee Doodle” as they took away the Union flag and recreated Fort Sumter’s surrender to Confederate attackers 150 years ago Thursday, winding down a somber commemoration of America’s plunge into the Civil War 
Some 100 Union defenders, hag­gard from the 34 hours of Confederate artillery bombard­ment, gave up the battle-scarred fort in Charleston Harbor on April 14, 1861, a singular event mark­ing the outset of the nation’s bloodiest war. 
Hundreds watched a 15-minute surrender reenactment as those playing Union forces marched away with a flag bearing 33 stars, including those of states splinter­ing away in secession. The nation­ally watched reenactment began before dawn Tuesday with the first shots of mock bombardment as an authentic coastal mortar sounded out and Confederate cannons ringing the harbor joined in. 
“These were the first shots of a civil war that would stretch across four years of tremendous sacri­fice,” President Barack Obama said Tuesday in a proclamation on the start of sesquicentennial events commemorating battles to come. “The meaning of freedom and the very soul of our Nation were contested in the hills of Gettysburg and the roads of Antietam, the fields of Manassas and the woods of the Wilderness.” 

The war, over four bloody years to follow, claimed more than 600,000 lives. 
“When the guns fell silent and the fate of our Nation was secured, blue and gray would unite under one flag and the insti­tution of slavery would be forever abolished from our land,” the president said. 
The state’s Palmetto Guard was the first Confederate unit to occu­py Sumter after the Union surren­der of 1861. 
The Confederate flag would fly over the fort nearly four years until Sumter was abandoned in early 1865 after Union Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman cap­tured Columbia about 120 miles away, flanking the Confederates and forcing them to withdraw from Charleston. 
Rick Hatcher, the historian at Fort Sumter, told visitors who arrived on the last tour boat of the day that the surrender was “one of the most historic and significant officer’s horse. But two Union sol-days in the history of this fort.’ diers died as the result of a can-

The only casualty of the bom-non misfiring during a salute bardment, which rained shells on marking the surrender cere-Fort Sumter nearly without pause monies. The two men are consid­for 34 hours, was a Confederate ered by many the first casualties of the war and there is a memorial in their honor in a corner of the Sumter parade ground. 
There will be an event to honor the soldiers Saturday while other events here conclude Sunday. 

Friday, April 15 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
DamthreatensMidwesttown 
Associated Press 
BURLINGTON, N.D. — The Des Lacs River in northwest North Dakota began a slow drop on Thursday, but authorities continued to monitor a weak and leaky dam protecting a neighborhood of about 30 homes. 
Water levels had fallen more than a foot and the river had retreated from overflowed banks by about 3 feet compared to a day earlier, state and local offi­cials said. Water behind the troubled Burlington Dam No. 1 was down by about a half-foot, said Todd Sando, North Dakota’s state engineer. 
“The good news is the dam is still there and it’s holding steady,” Sando said Thursday afternoon. 
Flooding fears had eased else­where in North Dakota. A 30­mile stretch of Interstate 29 reopened north of Fargo after being closed by overland flood­ing, and to Fargo’s west, officials said Valley City appeared poised to escape flooding from the Sheyenne River after raising its levees. 
In Burlington, the strength of the 77-year-old dam has been suspect for decades but this year’s flooding has spurred a need to either repair the dam or intentionally breach it by next spring, Sando said. “We’re not going to leave it the way it is,” he said. 
The dam was built in the 1930s for irrigation and to pro­vide water to homesteaders. Officials said the reservoir behind it no longer serves either purpose. Sando said draining the reservoir through a planned breach would relieve the pres­sure, but areas nearby might still be susceptible in flood years. 

For now, authorities are watching the ailing structure with remote video cameras, fearing that any attempt to shore up the dam — or even walk across it — could cause it to col­lapse. 
Fire Chief Karter Lesmann said authorities went door-to­door to about 30 homes on Wednesday night to warn resi­dents that the dirt-and-rock dam could wash out. About one-fourth of the 200 people in immediate danger left, he said. 
“We told them all to leave last night,” Lesmann said Thursday. “We’re not going to tell them again.” 

FAA chief addresses sleeping controllers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Publicly fuming, the FAA chief collected Thursday the resignation of the head of the U.S. air traffic sys­tem, doubled controller staffing at more than two dozen airports and ordered a sweeping review of the entire system that ensures planes fly safely, as the government sought to reassure the public that air travel is safe despite at least four instances of controllers sleeping on the job. 
But present and former con­trollers told The Associated Press that grueling work sched­ules and the design of the job itself — sitting in a dark room at night waiting for pilots to call 
— have made taking naps on the job necessary, even if unau­thorized by the FAA. One whis­tle-blower complained to the Transportation Department that cots can be found in one radar center, most often with con­trollers asleep in them. 
The National Transportation Safety Board warned FAA after a deadly 2006 air crash that controllers’ schedules were cre­ating unsafe situations in which they were going into work after only a few hours of sleep. But little had changed until this week when Federal Aviation Administrator Randy Babbitt said he was immediately adding a second controller on overnight shifts at 26 airports and a radar facility that had been staffed with a lone controller. Presumably the second con­troller provides a margin of safety if the first falls asleep. 
Babbitt’s order came hours after the pilot of a plane trans­porting a critically ill passenger was unable to raise the single controller working at 2 a.m. Wednesday in the tower of the Reno-Tahoe International Airport in Nevada. The FAA said the controller, who was out of communication for 16 min­utes, was sleeping. Controllers at a regional radar facility in California assisted the plane, which landed safely. 
Hank Krakowski, the head of the agency’s Air Traffic Organization, resigned Thursday and a replacement search was under way, Babbitt said. 
“Over the last few weeks we have seen examples of unpro­fessional conduct on the part of a few individuals that have rightly caused the traveling public to question our ability to ensure their safety,” Babbitt said in a statement Thursday. “This conduct must stop imme­diately.” 
President Barack Obama backed up his administrator, telling ABC News in an inter­view, “We’ve got it under con­trol.” 
“What we also have to look at is air traffic control systems,” Obama acknowledged. “Do we have enough backup, do we have enough people, are they getting enough rest time?” 

The president added: “It starts with individual responsi­bility. And those individuals, they let a lot of people down when they fell asleep on the job.” 
Babbitt and National Air Traffic Controllers Association President Paul Rinaldi met pri­vately Thursday with lawmak­ers on Capitol Hill to assure them that FAA is on top of the problem. 
“We take our responsibilities very seriously and believe staffing levels and fatigue are at the root of the problem,” Rinaldi said in a statement. “We will continue to work with the FAA and through our profes­sional standards workgroup to provide the highest level of pro­fessionalism and safety.” 
The first disclosure that a controller had fallen asleep when he was supposed to be directing air traffic was on March 23. That was when two airliners landed at Washington’s Reagan National Airport with­out assistance from the tower after pilots’ repeated attempts to reach the lone air traffic supervisor on duty failed. The supervisor later acknowledged to investigators that he had fall­en asleep. 
Dozing off at one’s post is unusual, but not unheard of, said seven current and retired controllers interviewed by the AP. Six of them acknowledged briefly falling asleep while working alone at night at least once in their careers. The con­trollers asked not to be identi­fied because they didn’t want to jeopardize their jobs or the jobs of colleagues. 
Much more common is taking a nap on purpose, they said. When more than one controller is assigned to the “midnight” shift, which usually runs from about 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., one controller will work two posi­tions while the other one sleeps and then they switch off, con­trollers said. 
The arrangements sometimes allow controllers to sleep as much as three or four hours out of an eight-hour shift, they said. 
FAA regulations forbid sleep­ing at work, even during breaks. Controllers who are caught can be suspended or fired. But at most air traffic facilities the sleeping swaps are tolerated as long as they don’t affect safety, controllers said. 
“We’ve been in denial about this problem forever so you have widespread abuse of a sys­tem,” said Bill Voss, a former controller and president of the Flight Safety Foundation in Alexandria, Va. “We could have a far better system if we just admitted what is going on and put some structure around it.” 
A whistle-blower complaint recently filed with DOT’s inspec­tor general’s office said such arrangements are the norm at night at an FAA radar center near Islip, N.Y., that handles high-altitude air traffic, one of the busiest facilities of its kind in the nation. 
“Sleeping on the midnight shifts is so commonplace the controllers keep inflatable beds and blankets at the facility,” the complaint said. “If you take a stroll at 2 a.m., you will see beds set up underneath the desks. More than likely there will be a controller in that bed, asleep.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, April 15, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Light from loss 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s fam­ily has lost three members this school year. 
That’s probably not what you were expecting to read when you tore your eyes away from your dining hall 
Marisa Iati 
lunch and glanced over at News this column a Production moment ago. Editor Unfortunately, the topic isn’t light-hearted or humorous. It is, howev­er, crucial. 
We don’t like to think about it. We often look the other way simply because we do not know how to cope with events whose meanings we cannot fully under­stand. It’s important that we discuss these losses, however, because there is much to be learned from each tragedy. 
From the loss of Lizzy Seeberg in September, I learned that although our community is extremely blessed, we are not immune to hardship. As Fr. Tom Doyle asserted at the memorial Mass for Declan Sullivan about a month later, “It is too easy, but also dishonest to assume that this place and this community has enjoyed only good fortune. We have experienced anguish, distress, persecu­tion and famine.” 
Lizzy’s sudden passing drove home the age-old lesson that none of us are guar­anteed tomorrow, and it helped me begin to understand that life is for the living. Our time is limited. There is no use in spending it in restless, dissatisfied pur­suit of something better. This sad event highlights the value of what we have in this exact moment — because that is all there is. 
In October, we lost Declan Sullivan. I re-watch his memorial Mass from time to time because in the Mass’s enormous sadness, I find great strength. 
On the night of the memorial Mass, amidst the crowd gathered outside the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the men of Fisher Hall united in solidarity. As they walked across campus, arms around each other, I learned what is meant by the phrase “the Notre Dame Family.” 
Today I Googled that phrase. I was simply looking to see if “family” needed capitalizing, but what I found was infi­nitely more meaningful. 
“I work at an institution that is over 150 years old; it has a tremendous sense of pride, power and influence,” Anne Stricherz blogged. “Tradition and family ties run strong, but we do not describe ourselves as a ‘family’ … The Notre Dame family, a term that is never used lightly, is true. In our crazy world, it is a blessed reality.” 
Our most recent loss was only two weeks ago. It, too, has a lesson to teach. The passing of Sean Valero should start a chain of action. 
Most of us passionately express our love for our school. Although this is won­derful, it also makes it easy to forget the conflicts many students face. Sean’s death should remind us that everyone has a story and a struggle and that it’s important to see those of other people. 
How much do you truly know about the girl you eat lunch with after philosophy class? The guy you befriended on your trip to Appalachia? Your roommate? 
Maybe, by learning about and support­ing one another, we will find healing from our wounds. It is in strength gar­nered from each other that the true meaning of the phrase “the Notre Dame family” becomes apparent. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Remember what you play for 
It seems the sun has come out at just the right time for Notre Dame students to compete for a cause. 
Last weekend, hundreds of students ran in the Holy Half Marathon to support three local charities — Keenan Hall hosted their inaugural Keenan Klassic basketball tourna­ment in memory of sophomore Sean Valero, interhall lacrosse teams participated in the Playing For Peace tour­
nament for accord in Sudan and remaining teams in the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment continued to support the Jumpball charity, which benefits Jamaican children, with their play on the court. 
The action continues this weekend as Notre Dame Special Olympics will host the first intercollegiate match in the history of Special 

Olympics when it takes on Northwestern on the soccer pitch at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Suffice to say, the only thing Notre Dame students like more then social activism and sports is the combination of the two. 
As a Catholic university, Notre Dame’s Mission Statement challenges students “to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” 
Our concern for this common good is not limited to the classroom or the service seminars we may participate in. The good we can achieve is magnified by the presence Notre Dame possesses outside the realm of social leader­ship. 
By harnessing the Notre Dame name — and Notre Dame athletics — to bring awareness to areas of social concern, students are able to create an amazing response to the call to a common good, be it through basketball, lacrosse or running. 
Sometimes, however, the message gets lost in the compe­tition. We train for weeks for a half marathon, or we come up with a creative basketball team name, or we persuade our friends to arrive early at a soccer match for free give­aways — and the very purpose of the event fails to res­onate in the excitement of the athletic event. 
Yet we run, we play and we participate primarily to make the world a better place around us. The fun of doing so is icing on the cake. 
Pausing to reflect on why we participate in these chari­
table athletic activities is not enough. It is admirable to give up a day for charity, regard­less of the form of giving, but we have to real­ize that while the basketball game may end with a winner, and that there ultimately is an end to the Holy Half, there is no finish line to poverty, no final buzzer for war. These prob­lems are among the most persistent opponents 
we face in the game of life. 
The students of Notre Dame must remember to remain active with the charities, foundations and causes they sup­port with their athletic talent (or lack thereof). It is good to play a game for peace, but it is truly great to follow up afterwards. The Playing for Peace lacrosse tournament last weekend, a continuation of a similar three-on-three basketball tournament in the fall, is a perfect example. 
The follow-up does not need to be athletic — it just needs to be there. If you ran in the Holy Half, look to vol­unteer at the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. If you attend this weekend’s soccer match, perhaps in the coming weeks and months you will involve yourself with Best Buddies. The game may end, but the problems do not. 
Most importantly, participate. Train for the Holy Half Marathon; come up with a crazy outfit for Bookstore Basketball. But don’t forget — you aren’t playing for your­self. You’re playing for a cause that began long before tipoff and won’t end with the final basket. 
Because we have the ability to invoke incredible, positive change in the world. 
Because we are Notre Dame. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you planning for the Blue and Gold game? 
Go to the game Who cares about football? Drink all day Study for final exams 
Vote by Friday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A man thinks that by mouthing hard wordshe understands hard things.” 
Herman Melville 
U.S. novelist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, April 15, 2011 page 9 
Objectivity 
I only barely remember medical school. 
My one memory is of a skeleton — a ghastly colossus that towered over me, its eyes empty, its teeth bared in a death­ly grin. Its arms, still gripped by sinew, were open, as though in expectation of my embrace. It radiat­ed malice. And hunger. 
It was only a mural, but it scared the crap 


Dan Sportiello 
out of me. Of course, I 
Bound 
could not have 

 ariables 
been more than a year old. It is only in hindsight that I realize that what I was seeing was an anatomical diagram — a painting not of a skeleton but rather of the human skeletal system. It was, in fact, one of several such stylized repre­sentations of the human body, drawn from the work of the Renaissance anatomist Andreas Vesalius, that deco­rated the foyer of the Medical College of Wisconsin. His paintings of the digestive system, the circulatory system, the respi­ratory system and others honored the roots of medicine in the many centuries of scientific labor that had brought humanity from darkness into light. Each painting was a celebration not of death, as I thought as a child, but of life, of the human ability to abstract from her child­ish reactions to the world — to bring those reactions under the harsh light of introspection and thus to understand herself objectively for the first time. This distinctive sort of introspection, made possible by what Christine Korsgaard calls “the reflective structure of the mind,” is what she argues is the source of not only practical reasons but also theoretical reasons, of not only the endorsement of certain inclinations as right but also the endorsement of certain impressions as true. 
“If we fall into doubt,” she argues, “about whether we really ought to believe what we find ourselves inclined to believe — that is, if we fall into doubt about whether our beliefs are true — we cannot dispel the doubt by comparing our beliefs to the world to see whether they are true. We have no access to the world except through the verdicts of the understanding itself, just as we have no access to the good except through the verdicts of the various points of view from which we make judgments of good­ness. The only point of view from which we can assess the normativity of the understanding is therefore that of the understanding itself.” 
It is this process of reflective endorse­ment, this distinctive sort of introspec­tion, that makes objectivity out of mere subjectivity — makes, that is, knowledge out of mere impression. While any ani­mal reacts to sense impressions in its environment, only a rational animal reflects upon these sense impressions and, in endorsing some and rejecting others, constructs out of them a theory 
— constructs, in other words, a set of reasons to believe. The paintings in my mother’s school glorified the rise of med­ical science, and in so doing, glorified this essential mark of a human being: that she is a rational animal, one capable of taking up the reflective perspective, or, in the terminology of Simon Blackburn’s, of “‘splitting’ the input and the output [so] that the reaction can be seen suffi­ciently clearly for what it is.” 
It was just this that my mother — tak­ing me to class, even as she was preg­nant with my sister — was learning to do. To learn to practice medicine is to learn to see one’s patients, and by exten­sion oneself, not just as a subject but also as an object, not just as a person but also as a machine, the components ordered in a way that, while complex, can be under­stood and thus repaired when damaged. There is not, in this, anything obviously moral, though this is not to say that it did not require the cultivation of a number of virtues, one first among them: Like any medical student, my mother studied and worked during the eight years of medical school and residency without meaningful sleep. During this time, she not only managed to somehow stay alive herself but also to save the lives of oth­ers. 
I find this almost incomprehensible. I too can function without sleep, but only if “function” means something quite mini­mal. I lose the ability to really under­stand much of anything — to say nothing of the ability to interact politely with my fellow human beings. Without sleep, the valence — moral and otherwise — of my world shifts dramatically: I can no longer abstract from my reactions to the world, can no longer pry apart the factual input from the normative output as Blackburn demands. Whatever hostility, suspicion, fear or unbridled glee I feel colors the world that I experience and its inhabi­tants. The third-person perspective is closed to me. I have no cognition but only impressions, no volition but only inclina­tions. In Kantian terms, I lose my ration­ality — my humanity — and become a mere animal. While I am fairly awake while writing this — the coffee helps — I live in the fear that, by the time it is read, I will have lost myself again. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI at 1 
p.m. on Thursdays. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Getting that hour of our lives back 
Dear Man-Behind-the-Curtain-Who-Controls-Campus-Clocks, 
Since March 13, I have been approximately one hour early to every sin­gle class. This is odd. 
I inspired the white rabbit from “Alice in Wonderland,” the one with the giant pocket watch that frantically utters, “I’m late. I’m late. For a very important date.” Yes, I’m a member of Always Late Anonymous. 
My tardiness could be counted as one of my leading characteristics. But, Man Behind the Curtain, you’re single-handedly ruining my street cred. My O’Shaughnessy street cred. And that hurts. O’Shag street cred is prob­ably the only street cred I have, both locally and generally. 
What’s at the root of all this angst, pain and identity crisis? Day Light Savings time. It never started. 
In my beloved O’Shag, my hood, my block, we are perpetually one hour early. Because our clocks never “sprung forward.” Most of campus proba­bly forgot about Day Light Savings time, considering it started almost one month ago. 
But Arts and Letters cannot forget. Because everyday we live with the fact that we were left behind in a disorienting wrinkle in time. 
At first, I thought seizing our clocks was a joke: “Harhar, Arts and Letters majors are so slow and out of step with the times.” If you’re trying to say that the humanities are antiquated and out of touch, we’ve fielded that snarky comment before. But April Fools Day passed almost two weeks ago. 
And really — our clocks? For a month?! Really?! The prank was already lame (and inconvenient). But at this point, that horse is dead. Put down the stick. 
Outside of a sad sense of humor, I can’t imagine why you’d deny the fre­quenters of O’Shag the correct time. Did you forget about us? If so, this is a friendly reminder that we’re still here. Behind you. One hour behind you. 
I don’t know if you’ve stolen our precious hour out of a pathetic sense of humor or blatant insensitivity to the fact that we exist. But, I kindly request that you restore order to O’Shag. 
Give us our hour! Or give us death! And by that I mean, prepare your­self to deal with the fury that mostly consists of angst and annoyance. But it is the fury of a community that is articulate, thoughtful and under-appreciated. 
You don’t want to take this fight to the streets. Because we will rep our O’Shag hood. The fight will get loquacious. 
Consider yourself kindly petitioned, adequately warned and mildly threatened. 
Sincerely, 
Jess Shaffer 
O’Shag Enthusiast 

Jess Shaffer 
senior Farley Hall April 13 
Just a mistake ... 

I would like to extend a “high five” to my classmate Fr. Tom Doyle and the Office of Residence Life. The University of Notre Dame prepared me for life in so many ways and I lived out most of my dream from 1985-1989 as a proud resident of Dillon Hall. But for years, The Office of Residence Life has handed out punish­ments that focused more on judgment and less on growth. Those passing judgment on the University’s “soft” punishment of Michael Floyd should bear in mind how they would want to be treated if they were in his shoes. I was in his shoes in 1988. I, along with my classmate, created and sold the original Catholics vs. Convicts t-shirt. Yes, I was warned to stop by the Office of Residence Life. But I made a mistake just like Michael Floyd did and sold thousands of shirts on October 15, 1988. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
I had written head Basketball Coach Digger Phelps every year since I was in second grade telling him of my dream to play for The Irish. I finally made it as a walk-on my senior year in 1988. But my t-shirt transgression was too much for Res Life to handle and I was promptly booted from the team 13 days later. The harsh­ness of that decision robbed me of my chance to live out my dream at Notre Dame. Keeping dreams alive for college students is a great way to go. Michael Floyd, when you see Fr. Tom, give him a high five for me and make us proud you get to live out your dream. 
Patrick Walsh 
alumnus 
Class of 1989 
April 12 
The Observer 

Scene 
page 10 Friday, April 15, 2011 

St. Baldrick’s Day: Shave for a Cure 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

The idea is pretty daunting. It takes a lot of confidence for ladies and gents to rock the Natalie Portman “V for Vendetta” or Bruce Willis look. It’s normal to want to switch up your look, but the bald-headed birthday suit is definitely a hard core move. For St. Baldrick’s participants, it definitely makes a statement — that you care. 
It wasn’t just the ladies giving up long locks this year. Jonathan Schommer, a sophomore from Knott Hall, shaved his dreadlocks for St. Baldrick’s on Thursday. He invested two years into his dread­locks, and the experience was the he first time he had cut his hair since his senior prom. 
“It’s just hair,” he said. “I’m doing this because I think this cause is really great and I really believe in standing in solidarity with oth­ers, and this is just a little way to do it.” 
Schommer’s main reason in making the change was his grand­mother, who died of ovarian cancer when he was five. 
“I was really close to her, so cancer has always been a part of my 
Clara Dineen 


life,” he said. 
His friends were also a big part of his project, with 81 attending the Facebook event he created to help raise money. The ones who showed up on the special day got a special prize — each got to cut off a dread. 
“A lot of people always joke that they are going to cut them off, so I figured I would give them the experience.” 
Although a part of Schommer’s look for two years, he said losing his dreads wasn’t so bad. 
“The most nerve-wracking part was having people constantly ask if I was ready for it,” he said. “The anticipation was the worst part.” 
The best part? Schommer raised around $170 and received a new ‘do that — if possible — makes an even bigger statement than the dreadlocks. He also loves his look. 
“I think it’s great that I now have hair shorter than my roommate who is in Air Force ROTC,” Schommer said. 
Take note of and maybe give a ‘hey there’ whistle to one of these bold and bald beauties like Jonathan Schommer. Caring and confi­dence is way sexier than any hairdo could ever be. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
Nestor Agabayani 





Jonathan Schommer 



Michael O’Brien Kelly Brakora 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
The Observer 

Scene 
Friday, April 15, 2011 page 11 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

A tale of two lovers both sought by others but only craving each other has made its way to the Decio Mainstage. Opera Notre Dame’s pro­duction of “Le Nozze di Figaro” (“The Marriage of Figaro”) took audiences by storm last night when it opened to a full house in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Figaro (Zach Angus/Dan Crupi) tries to marry his love Susanna (Bridget Mullins/Lindsay Schwartz), despite the opposition of other suitors. The powerful Count Almaviva (Stephen Lancaster) chases Susanna, old Marcellina (Paulette Curtis/Lauren Desrosiers) chases Figaro and the teenage Cherubino (Jessica Gorski/Lina Delmastro) chases any and every girl. In the end, however, true love conquers all. 
Director Mark Beudert said this year’s production took a lot of plan­ning but consisted of less time than usual on the actual stage. 
“It is much more elaborate… and we had a very short time in the the­ater — just three rehearsal days before opening night,” Beudert said. 
The cast consists of mostly Notre Dame undergraduates, with some fac­ulty, staff and Saint Mary’s students on board. 
“[It’s amazing that a] college would dare to attempt one of the most diffi­cult works in the repertoire, almost complete, in the original, with under­graduates,” Beudert said. “I am proud to say that the performance experience will be very satisfying for each of our four sold-out houses.” 
Sam Osborn, who plays Barbarina in the Thursday and Sunday casts, said he enrolled in an opera workshop this fall and a pro­duction this spring to prepare for the role. 
“My responsi­bilities as a per­former have included weekly rehearsals, a paper, translat­ing every word of Italian, learn­ing all of the Italian pronun­ciation, learn­ing the music and staging,” Osborn said. 

Senior Margartet Jumonville, who plays the Countess, said “Le Nozze” is one of her favorite operas and getting the chance to act as the Countess was an exciting learning experience. 
“I’ve definitely put so much of myself in this role, and, over the course of this year, the Countess has taught me more than I could have imagined,” she said. 
Crupi sought to make the play rele­vant to the student body by pointing out themes young adults can relate to. 
“Mozart and Da Ponte aren’t around 
to adapt the text 
to the present 
day — we have 
to make it 
relatabl e,” 
Crupi says. 
“But I think 
that the casts 
have been doing 
a remarkable 
job in making it 
an accessible 
show … the 
show is about 
love, lust, betray­
al, jealousy and 
ultimately, for­
giveness — and I 
think everyone is 
doing a wonderful 
job in making this 
an accessible, 
entertaining and 
fun production.” 

Senior Kate Mullaney has worked hard to make this production its best and appreciates getting the opportu­nity to sing “Le Nozze.” 
“I’m so glad it’s happening my sen­ior year — so many of us are seniors, and it really feels like a fitting culmi-

By TROY MATHEW 
Scene Writer 

I am, admittedly, a Matthew McConaughey hater. His cheesy smile, annoying surfer drawl and propensity for asinine romantic comedies have always rubbed me the wrong way. This is part of the reason I had to be dragged to see “The Lincoln Lawyer.” 
As the movie started, I tried to look on the bright side. At least the movie was lacking the equally-horrible Kate Hudson, who is McConaughey’s fre­quent partner-in-crime in crappy movies. I was soon shocked, however. Outrageously unfaithful to his rom­com past, McConaughey took the screen playing a street-savvy, cunning young lawyer — and playing it well. 
Throughout this complex and sus­penseful, albeit formulaic, legal thriller, McConaughey carries the film. He plays Mick Haller, a charismatic defense attorney who is not afraid to bend some rules to get his often-shady clients off the hook. However, his lat­est client, the wealthy Louis Roulet (Phillippe), provides an unexpected twist. Roulet is charged with the mur­der of a prostitute and claims the gold-digging prostitute framed him in order to get his money. 
Roulet’s guilt soon becomes appar­ent, and his string of murders becomes heavily involved with Haller’s past cases and personal life. Haller then faces danger from his high-pow­ered client and his family. Roulet’s mother, played by the terrifying-look­ing Frances Fisher, provides a menac­ing maternal presence. I think half the movie’s budget went toward her face-work and Botox. 
In an attempt to not give away too much, I’ll just say that Haller essen­tially ends up defending himself for the murder of his friend. This complex web of court cases and past murders is cause for a riveting movie and pro­vides many opportunities for plot twists. However, this multi-faceted plot also creates a lack of focus. McConaughey’s character is consult­ing with past clients, buying guns and pulling deals with biker gangs, all of which detracts from the central plot concerning the main plot case. 
The physical appearance of the characters contributes to the storyline as well. Haller, as he slaves over legal documents and possible evidence, looks more haggard than anything I’ve ever seen. The bags under his eyes droop, as he slugs back another whiskey. This horrible visual effect adds greatly to the desperation of the legal case, and — at least for me — made me very anxious for Haller to get some sleep and sober up. 
The film also raises thought-provok­ing ethical questions for defense attorneys. Haller is constantly looked down upon by other attorneys for freeing criminals, but he is more con­cerned with an innocent client. The thought of sending an innocent man to prison haunts Haller throughout the film. The ending is a just reflection of the plot, which includes entirely too much. 
Although “The Lincoln Lawyer” is an overly-ambitious, formulaic legal-thriller, the performances are stellar and there isn’t a dull moment. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 15, 2011 
NHL 

Lightning’s St. Louis eager to even series with Pens 
Associated Press 
Tampa Bay Lightning forward Martin St. Louis won’t have any trouble adjusting his playoff game face. 
Three broken teeth and a fat lip took care of that. 
Following a late-night trip to the dentist during which he endured two root canals, St. Louis was at practice Thursday vowing to even the score a day after a series-opening 3-0 loss to the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Rather than seeking payback against Penguins defenseman Zbynek Michalek, who’s errant stick cracked St. Louis across the face, the diminutive forward was more focused on providing the Lightning’s high-powered offense a spark in Game 2 of the first-round series at Pittsburgh on Friday. 
“I’ve moved on,” said St. Louis, who was initially livid — to the point of yelling at the officials at the bench — that no penalty was called against Michalek after the two collided in the corner mid­way through the second period. “It’s an emotional game, you know. At a certain point in time, you get to a boiling point I guess.” 

He’d rather take out his frus­trations by helping solve Penguins goalie Marc-Andre Fleury, who was at his acrobatic self in making 32 saves to stymie a Tampa Bay offense that fin­ished the regular season second in the East with 247 goals. 
“I’m not going to let my emo­tions get the better of me and hurt my team,” St. Louis said. “We’ve talked among ourselves. We know what we have to rectify. And I know we’ll come out and play a strong game.” 
The Lightning had their chances, but lacked finish during a game in which Fleury foiled Ryan Malone despite having his back to the play, and then made a diving arm save to stop Vincent Lecavalier in close. 
Lightning coach Guy Boucher was more concerned about guarding his team from frustra­tion. 
“There were enough scoring chances,” Boucher said. “We know we’re encountering an amazing goaltender, who can win a game by himself. But we also know there’s a lot of instances where our guys weren’t in the right place to make something happen.” 
With Fleury holding down the fort, the Penguins finally broke through as Alex Kovalev and Arron Asham scored 18 seconds apart during a three-goal third period in their first playoff game in their new home. As welcome as the victory was, the Penguins are aware they can’t rely on Fleury alone. 
“I don’t think we shut them down,” defenseman Ben Lovejoy said. “They had some good chances and Marc was awesome back there.” 
Penguins coach Dan Bylsma was concerned with how his defenders had difficulty contain­ing the speedy and creative Lightning forwards, who con­trolled much of the play in the first period. 
“We’re aware that they’re a dangerous team,” Bylsma said. “We still feel like we have to improve and get better at our game and prove we’re a good team in this type of (playoff) set­ting.” 
The Penguins opened the play­offs the way they ended the regu­lar season, adopting a defensive-first, opportunistic approach. The transformation was necessary after the team played the final half of the season without Sidney Crosby (concussion), and then lost Evgeni Malkin to a season-ending knee injury in February. 
Pittsburgh’s defense made up the difference, allowing 199 goals to finish fourth in the East. 
After watching Game 1 from the coaching box, Crosby contin­ued practicing with the team Thursday, but he’s not been cleared for contact and there’s no timetable on a return. 
The Penguins have also adopt­ed a physical style, which was apparent 90 seconds into Game 1 when defenseman Brooks Orpik rocked Lightning forward Steven Stamkos with a heavy hit in the corner. 
“That was one of the biggest hits I’ve ever seen, especially against a player of that guy’s cal­iber,” Lovejoy said. “That really set the tone for our team.” 
Stamkos, after his playoff debut, shrugged off questions about the hit, and chalked it up as a learning experience. 
“Although you want to perform right away,” he said, “I think I can take a lot of things I can learn from that game that I can apply for the rest of the series.” 
Stamkos isn’t alone. Eight other teammates made their playoff debuts. But St. Louis, who won the Stanley Cup with the Lightning in 2004, isn’t worried about the team’s lack of experi­ence. 
“Well, the first one’s under their belt,” he said “So, they know what to expect.” 

NFL 

NFL players and owners head back to court for mediation 
With the lockout at 33 days Goodell said the league hopes 
Associated Press 

and counting and the 2011 sea-to release its schedule for next 
The NFL and its locked-out son in peril, U.S. Magistrate season within the next 10 days players launched a second round Judge Arthur Boylan is oversee-and plans to play “a full season.” of mediation Thursday, this time ing this round of mediation. Goodell also said there are no under a court order to try and Sixteen days of mediated ses-plans to use replacement players figure out a solution to their sions in Washington failed to as the league did in 1987 and labor dispute. secure a new labor pact. that the Super Bowl in 
Commissioner Roger Goodell, League officials, led by execu-Indianapolis could be pushed Carolina Panthers owner Jerry tive vice president Jeff Pash, met back one week or the two-week Richardson and New England with Boylan for about five hours gap after the conference champi-Patriots owner Robert Kraft Wednesday. Lawyers for the onships could be shortened to were among those on hand for players met with Boylan for one if necessary. the closed-door session at the about four hours Tuesday. But Goodell’s main message to federal courthouse in Goodell declined to comment fans was to assure them they Minneapolis. as the group entered the court-would see the Browns play next 
NFLPA executive director house. Pash said: “The only way season. DeMaurice Smith was joined by we’re going to get this whole set “We’re going to make sure we attorneys, linebackers Ben Leber of issues resolved is by negotiat-have football, and more of it,” he and Mike Vrabel, as well as Hall ing.” said. of Fame defensive end Carl Eller. Eller said he was hopeful of Goodell held a similar session Smith greeted reporters as he progress. Wednesday with Dolphins sea-approached the building, but he “I’m a fan, too. We would like son-ticket holders. During that didn’t respond to questions. to ease their minds,” Eller said. call, he stressed the league’s goal Asked about his hope for the ses-Goodell stepped away from the of keeping player costs under sion as he hustled to the session to join a teleconference control and, in response to a entrance, Vrabel smiled and with 5,300 Cleveland Browns question about financial trans-joked that he just hoped he was-season-ticket holders for 20 min-parency, said the NFL’s disclo­n’t late. utes. He would not characterize sure has been “extraordinary.” players still must agree on how games. The NFL also wants to 
The meeting stretched late into the negotiations, which are sup-He insisted the players know to divide more than $9 billion in cut almost 60 percent of guaran­the afternoon and the two sides posed to remain confidential, but “the revenue down to the penny,” annual revenue. teed pay for first-round draft brought in sandwiches. did reiterate the importance of a reference to the union’s push The owners initially wanted to picks, lock them in for five years 
It was the first time the two the sides getting together. for the league to open the books. double the money they get off the and divert the savings to veter-sides have sat down to talk since “I can tell you that it’s a posi-“We want them to be top for expenses from about $1 ans’ salaries and benefits. March 11, when the old collec-tive step when the parties are informed,” Goodell said. “We billion to about $2 billion, but More than $525 million went tive bargaining agreement talking,” he said. “We saw the want to make sure they under-that number dropped during the to first-rounders in guaranteed expired, the union was dissolved March 11 proposal as responsive stand why we have the issues last round of mediation payments in 2010. The league to clear the way for a court fight to issues raised by the players that we need to address.” Other major issues included wants to decrease that figure by and the NFL wound up with its and there are many attractive The mediation is the first posi-benefits for retired players and $300 million, according to docu­first work stoppage since the elements in it. ... Our entire focus tive step in the dispute in more the NFL’s desire to stretch the ments obtained by The monthlong strike in 1987. is on getting a deal done.” than a month, but the league and regular season from 16 to 18 Associated Press. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE 
Home in Clay Twship-less than 3mi to ND. $75K. 2BR 1BA. Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30 pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, nice deck and firepit. Wood heat. New furnace and water heater. Low taxes. Call 574­261-2357 
———————————————­

FOR RENT 
SMC Women-cute house for rent. 3BR 1BA close to campus. $1500. Call for further details 616-292­9829 
———————————————­
NOTICES 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
———————————————­UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
———————————————­
PERSONAL 

THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA-­enchanting and unforgettable! Read this wonderful stage play on Kindle @ Amazon.com, under Books! 
———————————————­“If I don’t have a good shower, I am not myself. I feel weak and ineffec­tual. I’m not Kramer.” 
-Kramer 
“This is Frank Costanza. You think you can keep us out of Florida? We’re moving in lock, stock and barrel. We’re gonna be in the pool. We’re gonna be in the clubhouse. We’re gonna be all over that shuf­fleboard court. And I dare you to keep me out!” 
-Frank Costanza ———————————————­

Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
!"#$%&&'(#$)&$*+,#-.-/,0/1#$2,3'44')+4$'4$$ 
!"#$%&'&!($)"*'$(*&+,-$ 
5%6$!78$9*::86$2;<$;8=!$9>7%%?$@826$ 

.//012341567$38310390:$56016:$34$ 
;44/<==3>?1771567@6>@:>A=45ABCA1>:$$$ $ DA:741567E$$F564324$G3AB::6$F03BH$I?203BHJK6>@:>AL$5B$$ -4:/;361:$!CAM:6$I76CAM:6NK6>@:>AL$$ 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 15, 2011 
NHL 

Gionta scores twice to push Habs past Bruins 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Carey Price saw the puck much better Thursday night than he did a year ago from the Montreal bench. 
The Canadiens goalie posted his third postseason shutout after starting just one of his team’s 19 playoff games last season, Brian Gionta scored twice and Montreal opened the series with a 2-0 win over the Boston Bruins . 
“If we were able to write down on paper how we would have wanted to start the series this would have been it,” Price said. 
The tall netminder stopped 31 shots, few of them challenging and most with no Bruins in the slot to block his view. 
“You need to take away his vision,” Boston coach Claude Julien said. “We were all around the net but we weren’t in front.” 
Game 2 of the best-of-seven series is Saturday night in Boston. 
Price was a spectator for most of last year’s playoffs, watching Jaroslav Halak carry the Canadiens to the Eastern Conference finals where they lost to the Philadelphia Flyers . But Halak was traded to the St. Louis Blues in June and Price regained the starting job he had lost at mid-season last year.. 
This season, he started 70 games. 
“He was our most valuable play­er in the regular season and he gave us a chance to win every night,” Montreal coach Jacques Martin said. 
Price finished third in the NHL with eight shutouts, seventh with 
a .923 save percentage and 10th with a 2.35 goals against average. His eight shutouts ranked third. But Bruins goalie Tim Thomas was the best in the league with a 
2.00 goals against average, a .938 save percentage and a .718 win­ning percentage and second with nine shutouts. 
But Thomas couldn’t do much to stop Gionta’s goal at 2:44 of the first period on a pass from Scott Gomez from the left boards. Gionta and Mathieu Darche both got behind the Bruins defense with Darche directly in front of Thomas and Gionta on the right side of the crease. Darche let the puck go by and Gionta put it in between Thomas’ left side and the post. 
“I didn’t know there was a guy at the back door,” Thomas said. “I was playing the guy in front and it looked like he was the one that was going to pick it off, and by the time I realized that it got through him and over to Gionta he made a quick shot. If he holds it a half sec­ond more I can get over there.” 
Gomez also assisted on Gionta’s other goal at 16:42 of the third period. 
“Anytime in the playoffs you can take one on the road and it’s the first one, that’s big,” Gomez said. 
The game was played cleanly without any fights between the teams that had several physical confrontations during the regular season. 
In Boston’s 8-6 win at home on Feb. 9 there were 45 penalties for 182 minutes. On March 8 in Montreal, the Canadiens won 4-1, a victory overshadowed by Zdeno Chara’s hard hit that drove Max Pacioretty into a stanchion between the team’s benches. Pacioretty suffered a severe con­cussion and a cracked vertebra. Chara was penalized but not sus­pended by the NHL and Montreal police announced an investigation. 
The Bruins dominated play for most of the last two periods, but it was a disappointing playoff start after a disastrous end to their postseason last year. They won the first three games over the Flyers in the Eastern Conference semifi­nals. But Philadelphia forced a seventh game in which it rallied from a 3-0 deficit to a 4-3 victory. 

One of the Bruins best stretches Thursday came after killing a penalty midway through the sec­ond period. They fired numerous shots at Price, several stopped by Montreal players before reaching the net. 
At 11:45 of the period, Patrice Bergeron had a clear shot from 15 feet on the left but put it into Price’s midsection. 
Price’s outstanding performance was a major change from his last two games in Boston in which he allowed 13 goals. He let in all of Boston’s goals in the 8-6 loss 9 and five in a 7-0 loss on March 24. 
“Things that happen in the reg­ular season don’t necessarily hap­pen in the playoffs because it costs a lot more,” Price said. “Teams are playing differently.” 
He also was the losing goalie in all four games in the opening play­off round in 2009 when Boston swept Montreal, but he was sharp on Thursday. 
“He’s a great player and will come up big when we need and that’s why everybody on the team believes in him,” Gionta said. 
The Bruins may have lost home ice advantage in the series but it’s just one defeat. 
“Who said it was frustrating?” Chara said. “I think we did a lot of good things. We just couldn’t score a goal.” 
Sabers 1, Flyers 0 

Ryan Miller stopped a shot from his knees and with six players in the crease. He saved one with Buffalo down two men. Any way Philadelphia tried to attack him, Miller never buckled. 
He was perfect in net and the Sabres took quick control of the series. 
Miller stopped 35 shots for his second career postseason shutout and Patrick Kaleta scored to lift the Buffalo Sabres to a win over the Philadelphia Flyers in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference playoff series Thursday night. 
“It’s important to establish that we can skate with these guys,” Miller said. “We like where we’re at, but that team over there has a lot of fight, and we’ll have to be ready for them.” 
Miller stopped every shot under all types of pressure and carried the Sabres to the clutch opening win. The teams have met eight times in the postseason and the Game 1 winner won the series each time. 
Kaleta snapped the scoreless tie early in the third period when he powered a rebound past rookie Sergei Bobrovsky. 
No team was more resilient in last year’s playoffs than the Flyers. They trailed Boston 3-0 in the East semifinals before taking the series and playing until a Game 6 loss to Chicago in the Stanley Cup finals. 
Game 2 is Saturday in Philadelphia. 
The Sabres -10 points out of a playoffs spot on Jan. 17 -cracked the scoreless tie 5:56 into the third period on Kaleta’s second career postseason goal. 
Buffalo won a fight for the puck along the boards and dumped it across the zone to Marc-Andre Gragnani. He fired a slapper from the top of the circle and Kaleta knocked in the rebound from the low slot for the 1-0 lead. 
Kaleta, denied earlier in the game on a rebound, was healthy enough to play at a perfect time after missing most of the last month of the season with a bruised knee. 
Miller was flawless from there and the Sabres -the hottest team in the Eastern Conference since Jan. 1 -kept rolling in the postsea­son. 
Once a rowdy and devastating home-ice advantage, Philadelphia continues to struggle at the Wells Fargo Center. The Flyers dropped six straight games at home before snapping that streak in the season finale. They now have a Game 1 loss after dropping Game 6 of the Stanley Cup finals here last sea­son. 
Miller was the reason for their latest loss. 
“I tried to stay contained, stay cool,” Miller said. “I know, in the first period, that it didn’t always look that way. But I knew I’d get some help around me.” 
The Flyers attacked the net with a barrage of shots that went nowhere except straight into Miller. The former MVP of the Olympics stopped Kimmo Timonen on a slapper midway through the second period when the Flyers held a 5-on-3 edge 
Flyers coach Peter Laviolette called timeout when the Flyers had 34 seconds of a two-man power play. 
They came up empty on a power play that has failed them down the stretch. 
“It’s a momentum killer,” Flyers defenseman Matt Carle said. “I think it was the turning point.” 
It wasn’t the only wasted oppor­tunity. The Flyers went 0 for 5 on the power play and missed 11 shots. 
The Sabres stuffed the crease and the puck had no chance of finding the back of the net. With the aid of the stout defense, Miller stopped 16 shots in the second period. 
“Bob was good. Ryan was even better,” Flyers center Danny Briere said. “There will be nights like that. If we keep playing like we did tonight, we’ll be in good shape.” 



Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Prosecutors weigh options after Bonds trial 
before a grand jury investi-“What bothers me is that 
Associated Press 

gating an international sports you’ve got a very powerful 
SAN FRANCISCO — After doping ring centered at the federal government that has years of investigation, three Bay Area Laboratory Co -the money and time and weeks of trial and millions of Operative, also known as resources to ruin someone’s dollars spent pursuing Barry BALCO. reputation,” Kingston told Bonds, federal prosecutors Amid the confusion and The Associated Press after the were back where they started frustration of Wednesday’s verdict. “Why did it take eight Thursday — deciding whether muddled verdict, Illston years to get to this point on to try to prove the home run sharply cut off Assistant U.S. Barry Bonds? And with all the king’s records were built with Attorney Matthew Parrella’s problems we’ve got, why are steroids and lies. argument that the govern-we sitting here at the end of 
On Wednesday, the jury that ment need not decide immedi-an eight-year investigation?” was to finally decide whether ately about a new trial. Analysts and observers are Bonds deceived a grand jury “The trial is over and we split over the wisdom of a in 2003 when he denied don’t need any more speech-retrial, with U.S. Attorney knowingly using perform -es,” she said. Melinda Haag only saying in a ance-enhancing drugs instead It wasn’t the first time she written statement that a deci­left the issue deeply unre-displayed displeasure with sion would be made as soon solved. the prosecution during the as possible. 
The panel of eight women trial — and the more than “A retrial is warranted,” and four men convicted Bonds three years Bonds has been said Stanford University law 
of obstructing justice but under indictment. professor William Gould, who deadlocked on the three But the judge did agree that as chair of the National Labor charges at the heart of the prosecutors could decide later Relations Board cast the deci­government’s perjury case, about a new trial. She set a sive vote to end the baseball including two counts of lying May 20 hearing to discuss strike of the 1990s. “At a min-about the use of steroids and that issue and to schedule a imum, they should retry human growth hormone. U.S. sentencing date for Bonds. Bonds on his injection testi-District Judge Susan Illston An obvious calculation will mony.” declared a mistrial on those be whether it’s worth the Gould said that the “the three charges. effort. government was fighting with 
Now, prosecutors must Vermont Law School profes-one hand behind its back” weigh whether to spend still sor Michael McCann and oth-because Bonds’ former per-more money, and staff time, ers who followed the trial said sonal trainer Greg Anderson front of Illston, a jury found to show that Bonds knew he conducting another trial. it’s impossible to put an exact refused to testify. Prosecutors Graham guilty on one charge was taking steroids and They typically take into dollar figure on the govern-allege Anderson supplied but deadlocked on two others. human growth hormone. account a hung jury’s vote ment’s expenditure in pursuit Bonds with performance -Illston declared a mistrial on Prosecutors must also wrestle when making such a call, but of Bonds. The government enhancing drugs, but the those two charges, which with jurors who pointed to legal analysts warn that the doesn’t do its accounting on a judge excluded that evidence prosecutors dropped in July credibility gaps with a trio of Bonds trial was very different per-defendant basis. Still, it’s from the trial because the 2008 after Graham agreed key government witnesses — from the typical criminal case clear the figure is substantial, trainer wouldn’t take the wit-not to appeal his conviction. Bonds’ ex-business partner and the usual practices don’t he said. ness stand. Anderson spent Keane said he doubted the Steve Hoskins and ex-mistress apply to such a high-profile “The government has spent the duration of the trial in government would offer Kimberly Bell, both of whom defendant. millions of dollars and hours prison on contempt charges Bonds a similar deal — or came off as somewhat bitter, 
What’s more, the jury’s vote and is being questioned over and his lawyer Mark Geragos that Bonds would agree to and Bonds’ personal shopper, 
on 
the deadlocked counts whether that time and money said he will never testify such an arrangement. Kathy Hoskins, who is Steve’s were inconsistent. A majority could have been better spent against Bonds. “There’s been too much sister. 

of 
jurors voted to acquit elsewhere,” said McCann, “The government will be baggage,” Keane said. Jury foreman Fred Jacob of Bonds on the drug-related who specializes in sports law. satisfied with the one felony Bonds attorney Dennis Marin City said it would take charges while voting 11-1 to “There’s also a fatigue factor conviction,” said defense Riordan is already contesting more evidence than prosecu­convict him of lying about setting in.” attorney William Keane, the obstruction charge. tors presented to convict never receiving injections Indeed, outside pressure is “especially given the hurdle Riordan on Wednesday asked Bonds on those remaining from anyone but his doctor. mounting. Rep. Jack Kingston they had to overcome because Illston to toss out the guilty charges. 


Further, the judge who of Georgia recently ques -of Anderson.” verdict on several grounds. “This cost the citizens a lot would preside over the new tioned at a congressional Keane represented former The judge will rule on the of money to bring him to trial has been showing impa-hearing whether top BALCO track coach Trevor Graham, request later, after both sides court,” Jacob said. “They’re tience with a case that reach-investigator Jeff Novitzky was who was charged with three submit legal arguments. going to have to even do more es back to Dec. 4, 2003. motivated by trying to bring counts of lying to BALCO At least eight of the 12 homework than they already That’s the day Bonds testified down a celebrity. investigators. After a trial in jurors said prosecutors failed did.” 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish squad feels confident approaching Collegiate Classic 
By LAURA COLETTI Sports Writer  tournament, we beat a lot of top-25 teams.” The team will be striving  ing all season for this and we know we’re ready.” The eight teams in the field  rounds. Each team’s lineup consists of five golfers, with the top four scores from each  in a seven-team field in the 2 0 1 0 B i g E a s t c h a m p i -onships. They have captured  
for a balanced attack in order  we r e  pa ired  on  a  ra n d o m- round counting towards the  the title three times in the  
S e n i o r  c a p t a i n  K a t i e  t o  s c o r e  draw basis,  team’  score  for each day of  past 10 years, most recently  
Conway and the Irish have  consistently,  w i t h  N o t r e  play.  in 2009.  
been rigorously training all week and will travel to Palm H a r b o r, F l a . , S u n d a y w i t h their sights set on bringing home the 2011 Big East tour­nament title. The Irish placed eighth in their last outing, the highly  C o n w a y said. “ E a c h o f us has deliv­ered at key moments in t he se ason , a nd w e a r e  “The team is feeling really confident going into Big East this week. At the University of Georgia tournament, we beat a lot of top-25teams.”  Dame draw-i n g a N o . 2 s e e d . T h e Irish will tee o f f a g a i n s t No. 1 Seton Hall and No. 3  “ O u r b i g g e s t r i v a l i s L o u i s v i l l e , ” C o n w a y s a i d . “[The Cardinals have] won the past two years and have been playing well recently. While we are ranked higher, w e ’ r e g o i n g t o a l l n e e d t o play well and come together  Conway and fellow senior So-Hyun Park will be looking t o f i n i s h t h e i r B i g E a s t careers on a high note. “For So-Hyun and I, this is ou r f i n a l Big E a s t t ou rn a -ment,” Conway said. “We are t he o nly on e s o n th e te a m  
c o m p e t i t i v e L i z M u r p h e y Collegiate Classic. Freshman standout Nicole Zhang fin- l o o k i n g t o b ui l d of f o f those expe- Katie Conway senior captain  Georgetown o n S u n d a y m o r n i n g .  as a team to earn back the t i t l e o f r e i g n i n g B i g E a s t c ha m p i o n . O u r g o a l is n o t  with a Big East championship ring, and we want our under­classmen to have rings, too.  
i s h e d i n  a  t e a m -b e s t 1 5 t h  r i e n c e s  i n  R u t g e r s ,  only to win, but to  score  as  We want to finish off our play  
place in the individual field.  the champi- L o u i s v i l l e ,  low  as  we  can  to build  some  at  Notre Dame in the  same  
“The team is feeling really  o n s h i p , ”  s h e  s a i d .  “ We ’ r e  S t .  J o h n ’s  a n d  C i n c i n n a t i  more  momentum and confi­ way we started.”  
confident going into Big East  f a v o r e d  t o  w i n , wh i c h  ca n  round out the field.  d e n c e  a s  w e  l o o k  t o w a r d  
this week,” Conway said. “At  add an extra element of pres- The three-day tournament  NCAA regionals.”  Contact Laura Coletti  
the University of Georgia’s  sure, but we've been prepar­ c o n s i s t s  o f  t h r e e  1 8 -h o l e  Notre Dame finished third  lcoletti@nd.edu  


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 15, 2011 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish face Big East opponent 

By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
After a full week of games, the Irish will play three more this weekend against Big East oppo­nent Louisville. Notre Dame comes into the series with a 12 game winning streak and an undefeated 5-0 record in confer­ence play. 
The Irish (29-7) have Thursday and Friday to practice before a doubleheader Saturday and a single game Sunday. Freshman pitcher Laura Winters said that the team has been using this opportunity to hone their skills. 
“Our focus has just been on keeping the fundamentals strong and not getting overwhelmed,” Winters said. “We need to keep up the game we have been play­ing and not worry about any­thing else.” 
Louisville (31-11) just had a 12 game winning streak broken, is 9-2 in conference play and looks to bring some of the stiffest com­petition the Irish have seen. However, the players are deter­mined to treat this game like any other, regardless of Louisville’s performance or record. 

“All we have to do is go into the game thinking Louisville will have their best game and that we need to bring our best as well,” Winters said. 
With Big East standings on the line, these games become even more crucial for rankings and important to the players them­selves. Notre Dame has fewer conference wins than Louisville, and this series has the potential to make or break the Irish goal of winning the Big East. 
The players are treating this weekend as an opportunity to make a statement about their play and competitiveness for the postseason. 
“Playing our game will be very important,” Winters said. “If they aren’t as strong of a team as we expect, we need to come out and bury them. If they are, we will be prepared to fight it out.” 
The Irish will be participating in more than just this three game series against Louisville, as the team is hosting Strike Out Cancer, an event that raises both money and awareness for cancer patients. 
The event is especially poignant this year as the squad will stand beside Irish coach Deanna Gumpf’s five year old daughter, Tatum, who was diag­nosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia last summer. Money raised will be donated to the pediatric oncology wing of the South Bend Memorial Children’s Hospital. 
Notre Dame hosts Louisville Saturday at noon and 2 p.m. and again Sunday at noon. 
Contact Jack Yusko jyusko@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 

Belles return home to take on Adrian 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 

Following a 2-1 road trip, Saint Mary’s will try to continue its recent winning ways with its first home match in ten days against Adrian College. 
The Belles (10-6, 3-2 MIAA) are winners of eight of their past 11 matches, due in large part to their strong singles play. This strength was evident in their last match against Alma College April 12. After losing two of three doubles matches, the Belles dominated singles play, with all six players tallying wins. In addition, the Belles singles’ players did not lose a single set to Alma. 
Saturday’s opponent, Adrian College (5-9, 2-4), is headed in the opposite direction than the Belles in the standings after dropping three straight contests in conference play, including an 8-1 road defeat to MIAA foe Calvin College Thursday. 
However, Bulldogs’ junior Sarah Brooks, who normally plays No. 5 singles, will pose a challenge with her 8-6 record, as she leads Adrian in singles wins. Brooks’ likely opponent will be Belles’ senior Kate Grabarek. 
Brooks has also been domi­nant in No. 3 doubles play when paired with sophomore partner Jordenne Ferenczi, as the duo holds a 9-2 record, which includes the Bulldogs’ only match win against Calvin. 
However, the Belles’ No. 3 doubles tandem of senior Jessica Kosinski and freshman Mary Catherine Faller has been their most consistent doubles’ pair in what has been the team’s overall weakness. The pair is 6-1 on the season. 
The Bulldogs’ weaknesses this season have been magnified in No. 1 and No. 2 singles and dou­bles play, as the squad is a mere 12-44 in those categories. In No. 1 singles play, Saint Mary’s sen­ior Jillian Hurley will take on Adrian senior Katelyn Simcina, while Kosinski will face Adrian junior Shelby Kruszewski in No. 2 singles. 
With a win against the Bulldogs, The Belles will guaran­tee themselves a winning regu­lar season record for the second straight season. Following Saturday’s match, the team only has three matches remaining before the MIAA tournament commences on Friday, April 29. 
Play begins Saturday at 1 p.m. at the Saint Mary’s tennis courts. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary’s seeks tournament berth 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 

No. 9 Saint Mary’s will need to repeat history if it hopes to win an MIAA playoff berth and automatically qualify for anoth­er NCAA tournament. 
The Belles competed Thursday in Marshall, Mich. in the first round of the MIAA NCAA qualifier, a tournament in which they have a history of success. Last year, they over­came a deficit after shooting a first round 333, winning the tournament by eight strokes over Olivet College. That win automatically qualified Saint Mary’s for the NCAA champi­onships, where it posted an impressive fourth place finish. 
This year, the Belles once again find themselves in an early deficit in the tournament. With another opening score of 333, they sit in second place, twelve strokes behind first round leader Olivet. While Saint Mary’s script may be set­ting itself up in the same fairy tale fashion, Belles senior cap­tain Mary Kate Boyce said she would rather not play the underdog again. 
“Everyone played just about average today,” Boyce said. “But in a qualifier like this, that’s not going to be good enough. There was a little wind out there, but conditions were fine, and now we’ll have to play from behind.” 
Part of the reason for the Comets’ successful 321 first round was their familiarity with the course. The nearly 7,000­yard host site, The Medalist Golf Club, has been Olivet’s home course for years. Boyce, however, refused to accept “home-field advantage” as an excuse. 
“It’s their home course, but we’ve played there a couple of times, as well,” Boyce said. “We both played pretty consistently today, they were just consis­tently a little better.” 
Despite the seemingly bleak outlook, there were several bright spots for the Belles. One such highlight was the out­standing play of junior Natalie Matuszak. Her 9-over-par 81 was the second best individual score in the entire tournament. 
Even more promising for the Belles is the fact that they will return to their home course, Blackthorne Golf Club, for the final two rounds of the qualifier from April 29-30. With a famil­iar eighteen holes ahead and another two weeks to prepare, the Belles believe they have an opportunity to take the lead and qualify for the NCAA championships once again. 
“I like our chances to rally at home,” Boyce said. “We need to get after it in practice, and then we need to get a lead on that first day. Everyone’s going to have to cut out a few more strokes, but I think that we have a great shot if we can get that good start.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer Irish senior Connor Alan-Lee chips a shot during Notre Dame’s victory in the Battle at the Warren Apr. 12. 
Kubinski 
continued from page 20 
excited,” Kubinski said. “They are looking forward to it.” 
The Irish are coming off of their only tournament victory of the spring Tuesday as they won the Battle at the Warren, played at Notre Dame’s 

“If we play well, we 
own Warren send juniors 
will win. There’s not 
Golf Course. Max Scodro 
a doubt in my mind.” 
Kubinski and Chris described his Walker, sopho-
Jim Kubinski 
team ’s eight more Paul 
Irish coach
stroke victory McNamara 
top five reflects both Alan­Lee’s strong recent perform­ances and the need for lead­ership at the upcoming meet. Kubinski, however, said he is not worried about his team’s relative inexperience. 
“I’ll take talent over experi­ence any day of the week,” Kubinski said. “And I feel that we’re definitely the most talented team in the tourna­
ment.” 
Notre Dame, 

in addition to 
Alan-Lee, will 
as its best golf of the spring. 
“We’ve been trying all sea­son to get back to the level we were at in the fall, and this was definitely a huge step in the right direction,” Kubinski said. 
The win was especially important for the Irish given the loss of No. 1 golfer Tom Usher, who broke his hand earlier this week while weightlifting. Kubinski tapped senior Connor Alan-Lee to replace Usher in the group of five who will be competing at the Big East championship. Kubinski ’s vote of confidence in Alan-Lee as the lone senior in the and freshman 

Niall Platt into 

the tourna ­
ment, which counts only the top four scores for each team. The Irish rank almost a full 50 spots above Louisville, the next highest Big East team, and Kubinski said their biggest competition will be themselves. 
“If we play well, we will win,” Kubinski said. “There’s not a doubt in my mind.” 
The Big East championship will begin Saturday at the Innisbrook Resort in Palm Harbor, Fla. 
Contact Conor Kelly ckelly17@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S ROWING 

Team travels to Invitational 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

After his team’s varsity eight-boats raced poorly in their last regatta, Irish coach Martin Stone verbalized his disappoint­ment to the squad. 
If Notre Dame was looking for an easy victory to get back on track, it will not find it Saturday. 
In addition to the Irish, a handful of nationally-ranked teams will be competing in the Lake Natoma Invitational in Gold River, Calif., Saturday and Sunday. The event is co-hosted by Sacramento State and California at the Sacramento State Aquatic Center. The Golden Bears have finished first at the last two Lake Natoma Invitationals. 
Notre Dame will face No. 4 California and Oregon State Saturday morning before facing 
off against No. 5 Stanford and first event of the season at the Sacramento State later that Head of the Rock Regatta in afternoon. Sunday morning race October. Overall, Wisconsin times depend topped Notre on Saturday Dame that fall day. results. Stone said his Stone said he “I think we team is ready to 
expects tough prepared well, and race and excited competition we’re excited to get to be included in from each of into Lake Natoma.” such a competitive the schools the field. 
Martin Stone 
Irish will face. “We’re very “With Cal and Irish coach excited, so we’ll 
Stanford, we expect a good race,” he said. “Also, Oregon State is a very strong program and Sacramento State will be on their home course.” 
Notre Dame’s squad will be making the program’s first appearance at the invitational. Other top teams competing in Gold River include No. 6 Brown and No. 10 Wisconsin. The Irish faced the Badgers during their see how it goes,” he said. “I think we prepared well, 
and we’re excited to get into Lake Natoma.” 
Tennessee and Central Florida round out the nine-team field, which boasts competitors from every region of the country. 
Competition is set to start Saturday in Gold River. 
Contact Cory Bernard cbernard@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles look for second MIAA win 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s, having recently broken a four-game losing streak against Franklin, will now try to keep up the momentum as it takes on Olivet College in a doubleheader Saturday. 
Though the Belles are just 1-5 in MIAA conference play, coach Erin Sullivan said she has confidence in her squad. 
“We need to hit the way we did in game two on Tuesday,” Sullivan said. “The team had a lot of confidence and came back with a fire I haven't seen since we played Adrian on Saturday and won.” 
Sullivan said she antici­pates a strong effort from the Comets, who need a win against Saint Mary’s to secure their first conference victory. 
“They always play hard and know they are in a must-win situation for our confer­ence,” Sullivan said. “Olivet is scrappy and never goes down without a fight.” 
The Belles have won their last four contests against Olivet, including two close contents against the Comets in 2010. Saint Mary’s won that pair of matchups 5-4 and 8-5. 
Sullivan said she is looking for her team to play up to the potential she has seen both early on in the season and in the Belles’ comeback game against Franklin April 12. 
“My goal is to see them play 14 innings of softball,” Sullivan said. “Not just seven, or 10, or even 13. I want to see the same team I saw come back from a bad loss in our first game on Tuesday, the one that dug deep and believed in them­selves.” 
Sullivan said she is eager to see her team prove that they have the drive that other teams lack. 
“It's not about the pitching and hitting at this point of the season,” Sullivan said. “It's about who wants it more. I believe in them and I know how badly they want to win.” 
The Belles will take the field against Olivet at home Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit kheit@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish gear up for Marquette 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

Last weekend the No. 22 Irish learned the impor ­tance of playing a match all the way through, as Northwestern overcame Notre Dame ’s initial 3-0 lead by taking the final four singles matches to win 4-3 
overall. This weekend, Notre Dame will try to learn from its mistakes as the team prepares to face Marquette. 
“Northwestern was a tough match to lose because we were up and we lost all three set matches,” junior Kristy Frilling said. “We know we can beat these [upcoming] teams and I think our best tennis is ahead of us.” 
The Golden Eagles (17-7) are in the midst of a seven-match winning streak, with their No. 1 doubles pair of seniors Rachael Hush and Christina Ruiz carrying 11 straight wins and a 21 -3 record overall. Junior Irish duo Frilling and Shannon Mathews will try to end that streak, as the pair has turned in 13 consecutive wins. 
Despite a lower season winning percentage, the Irish have seen more suc­cess than the Golden Eagles in all three matches this year against common oppo­nents. 
The Irish (11 -9) beat Wisconsin and Indiana by the score of 6-1, both of which defeated the Golden Eagles in dual-meet compe­tition. The final commonali­ty, USF, came out on top against both teams, but the 5-2 win over the Irish was less impressive than the 7-0 sweep of the Golden Eagles. 
Frilling said her team knows just how vital the last few contests of the reg­ular season are as the Irish head into postseason play. 
“These last regular sea­son matches are important for us as we head into [the]conference [champi ­onships],” Frilling said. “I think we are all really excited for the Big East and NCAAs, and we all just need to keep working hard.” 
Notre Dame will look to No. 5 Frilling at the No. 1 singles spot, No. 64 Mathews at the No. 2 and No. 95 freshman Jennifer Kellner at the No. 3 slot. Kellner contributed one of only two singles wins last week against Northwestern when she defeated sopho­more Kate Turvy 6-3, 6-1. 
The Irish will take on the Golden Eagles Sunday in Milwaukee, Wisc., at 10 a.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran mfnnera@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 15, 2011 
Coyne 
continued from page 20 
a little bit of an edge but they are an up-and-coming team that has given some top programs a scare.” 
Notre Dame’s 12-7 loss to the No. 13 Orange was pre­ceded by a 15-4 domination of Villanova Friday. Over the weekend, four different Irish players scored in both con­tests, including senior attack Ansley Stewart, who chipped in four goals and two assists across the pair of games. Junior attack Maggie Tamasitis also extended her every conference foe it has faced. 

“We played really well defensively against Syracuse, especially in the second half, ” Coyne said. “We’ve made some adjust­ments but we’ll use a similar scheme [tomorrow].” 
Building a stone wall in front of Lapham and Kahn will be senior defender Jackie Doherty and sopho­more goalie Ellie Hilling. Doherty, a preseason All ­American and All-Big East selection, leads the Irish with 34 ground balls and 28 caused turnovers while Hilling is com­ing off a career-best performance. 

point streak to 3 0 g a m e s ,  “It’s a huge game. We want to be in the  I n t h e l o s s t o S y r a c u s e ,  
making her just  tournament. It’s not  H i l l i n g ,  w h o  
the fifth player in program his­t o r y t o r e a c h t h e 3 0 -g a m e  an option not to [make the tournament].”  ha s played all but 12 minutes t h i s s e a s o n , made a career- 
plateau.  Tracy Coyne  high 14 saves.  
“ H e r  b e s t  Irish coach  W i t h  o n l y  

asset is field vision. She can see plays develop ahead 
of time and is able to set teammates up,” Coyne said of Tamasitis. “She’s also very sneaky around the cage for goals.” 
Tamasitis, however, is not the only one with a streak. Connecticut junior attack 
M.E. Lapham carries a 34­game goal streak into Saturday’s game against the Irish. In those 34 games, Lapham has scored nearly 100 goals, making her a dangerous threat. Huskies freshman attack Lauren Kahn has been impressive as well, tallying 31 goals and 10 assists. The potent duo has accounted for 41 percent of Connecticut’s points, pos­ing a challenge to nearly 
Dupra 
continued from page 20 
The Saturday and Sunday games will feature senior right-handers Cole Johnson and Todd Miller on the hill for Notre Dame. Though none of the three weekend starters have a standout record, they all carry ERAs of below four into the weekend, an indication of the consis­tent pitching the Irish have put together. 
“The pitching has been great all season, pretty much,” senior third baseman Greg Sherry 

four Big East 
games remain­

ing, each con­
ference game gains importance as teams vie for one of just four spots in the conference tourna ­ment. The Irish currently sit in fourth place, just half a game in front of fifth-place Louisville. 
“It’s a huge game. We want to be in the tournament. It’s not an option not to [make the tournament], ” Coyne said. “We also want to finish the season with 10 or more wins again.” 
With vital conference seed­ing on the line, familiar foes Notre Dame and Connecticut will meet at Arlotta Stadium tomorrow at noon. 
Contact Matt DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

batting .364 on the year and has clubbed three homeruns and a triple, in addition to 11 doubles — a mark good enough for third in the con­ference. 
The Mountaineers’ strong 

offensive history suggests Notre Dame will likely have to improve upon its early-season offensive struggles. However, the offense, which has averaged four runs per game, broke out in Notre Dame’s last contest for a 14­run outburst Sunday against Connecticut. Sherry said the offense is rounding into form. 
“The hitters are starting to get their timing, we ’ve been working hard,” 
said. “They’ve “The hitters are he said. “Coach done a great starting to get their Aoki has been job and it ’s timing. We’ve been preaching living been nice.” working hard.” in the right-cen-
The staff will terfield gap. It’s face its tough-Greg Sherry helped us the est test of the last two or three 
senior third baseman 
conference slate thus far in a Mountaineer lineup that enters the week­end with a .312 team batting average, a mark that dwarfs Notre Dame’s .243 team mark. The Mountaineers (20­14, 6-3) feature strong hit­ting from one through nine in the lineup, with seven hitters in their regular lineup hitting 
over .300 on the season. Designated hitter Jeremy Gum, who represents one of the top bats in the entire conference, anchors the West Virginia bats. The senior is weeks and made 

us better hitters. 

I think we ’re 
going to get it rolling, we’re starting to play confidently. If the pitching continues at the level [it’s] at, we’re going to be tough to beat.” 
First pitch is slated for Friday at 7 p.m. in a game to be televised nationally on ESPNU. Play will resume on Saturday at 4:05 p.m. and the series finale is set for Sunday at 1:05 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

St. John’s 
continued from page 20 

Randall said. “You have a whole week to prepare. There is really no reason to take a day lightly.” 
For the Irish, preparation leading up to each game consists mainly of fine-tuning their own play rather than adjusting to the opposition’s, and this week has been no exception. 
“We certainly prepare for the other team but we do not con­centrate on the other team, we concentrate on our team, and we will continue to do that,” Corrigan said. “If we are wor­ried about beating St. John’s today, then we are making a mistake. We need to worry about what is on our plate today, and that is correcting the things we need to correct with our­selves and working on becoming a better team.” 
Already one of the nation’s top teams, Notre Dame’s attention to detail is sure to make it even more formidable in the final games of the regular season and likely deep into the postseason. 
The Irish are focusing especially on perfecting an offense that has shown flashes of brilliance but which has, at times, failed to impress. 
“Offensively, we have just got to be more efficient,” Corrigan said. “We have had a combina­tion of too many empty posses­sions and too many turnovers – [it] is making it hard on our offense. I think we have made some progress and I think we have a lot of potential offensive­ly, but we have got to start fin­ishing our opportunities and just be a little bit smarter with the ball.” 
Even Notre Dame’s strpmg defense, which ranks second nationally with an average of only 6.13 goals surrendered per game, is called on to improve every week. 
“Defensively, there is always room for improvement,” Randall said. “We gave up six goals last week, and I know a lot of teams would be happy with that, but we watched film and we real­ized that there are definitely still a lot of things that we can do better.” 
The anchor of the Notre Dame defense, sophomore goalie John Kemp was named Big East Player of the Week for his per­formance against Georgetown last weekend, a game in which he recorded 12 saves. Kemp has filled in admirably for graduated All-American Scott Rodgers and ranks second in the nation in save percentage (.626) and third in goals against average (6.13). 
“Last year we had Scotty, who was really good, so it is just real­ly nice knowing that there has not been a drop off at all,” Randall said. “John is extremely calm. He is definitely not rattled at all — it is just great to have someone so confident in net.” 
With all the pieces in place, the Irish should continue to improve as a team, Randall said. 
“I just think as we play more together we will just continue to grow and understand each other, and that will help us become a better team,” he said. 
The Irish look to continue moving in the right direction when they face off against St. John’s Saturday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRI ARNOLD

Laura McGinn 
JUMBLE

TUESDAY VAR ETY SHOW 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, April 15, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Scott announces decision to enter NBA draft 
Observer Staff Report 
Irish senior forward Carleton Scott announced his declaration for the NBA Draft Wednesday night after the 2011 men ’s basketball awards’ banquet. Scott has one year of eligibility remain­ing, and did not sign a con­tract with an agent, so he can remove himself from the draft after pre-draft workouts and return for his final sea­son of eligibility. If Scott is to return to the Irish, he must declare such before May 8. 

“I declared last week but I’m not going to sign an agent, ” Scott told IrishIllustrated.com. “We’ll just see how the process works out and then go from there.” 
The last Irish player to declare early for the draft was Luke Harangody, who declared after his junior sea­son only to rescind his decla­ration and return for his final season. Scott said that he plans to talk to Harangody to discuss the former Irish star’s thought process. 
“I called [Harangody],” Scott said to Irish Illustrated. “I haven’t talked to him. I’ve tried to talk to him just to pick his brain and see how he went through the whole process.” 
Scott also talked to Irish coach Mike Brey before mak­ing the decision. 
“I talked to coach and got his blessing on it,” Scott said. “He thought it was a pretty good idea just seeing how that option goes.” 
Brey downplayed Scott ’s decision. 
“I think it’s an official way to get feedback on status,” Brey said. “It opens up the channels to officially be able to get the feedback instead of 
MEN’S BASEBALL 

Climbing the mountain 
Pitching staff to be tested against WV 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Something will have to give in Notre Dame ’s weekend series with West Virginia as the Big East’s top offense goes head-to-head with the stalwart Irish pitching staff in a three-game set. 
Notre Dame (13-16-1, 4-5) enters the game with one of the top pitching staffs in the Big East, but will be put to the test against the Mountaineer lineup. The Irish lead the conference in fewest walks, wild pitches and hit batters and rank third in ERA with a miniscule 
2.92 staff mark. Senior cap­tain and right-hander Brian Dupra will start in the week­end opener, as he does every week, against undefeated West Virginia left -hander Marshall Thompson. 
see DUPRA/page 18 


trying to do it, if he doesn’t put his name out there through an agent and through a third party. We’ve been very good at circum­venting that.” 
Scott averaged 11.2 points, 
7.4 rebounds, and 1.9 blocks per game in Notre Dame’s 2010-2011 season as part of a senior-heavy rotation that carried the Irish to a No. 2 seed in the NCAA tourna ­ment. 
MEN’S GOLF 
Irish to tee off against Hoyas 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 

One year ago the Irish fin­ished second to Georgetown in a playoff at the Big East championship in Palm Harbor, Fla. The loss has served as a motivating factor for Notre Dame all year, its goal being to return to the Big East championship for another shot at the title. 
It seems only appropriate then that the Irish have been paired with the Hoyas for the first round in this year ’s tournament. While the pair­ings are random, coach Jim Kubinski said he thinks the matchup is good for his team. 
“When I found out and told the guys that we were paired with Georgetown on the first day, they all were pretty 
see KUBINSKI/page 17 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Squad faces familiar foes 
By MATT DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
On the heels of a disap ­pointing loss to Big East rival Syracuse, the Irish will look to bounce back tomor­row against a familiar oppo­nent: Connecticut. 
The Huskies (6-5, 0-3 Big East) and the Irish have met 12 times during the Notre Dame lacrosse program ’s brief 14 -year history. The Irish have claimed victory over Connecticut 10 times, making the Huskies the most -defeated foe by the Irish. 
“Both schools are going after top talent that fit the Universities,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “We have 
see COYNE/page 18 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

No. 2 Irish look to defend perfect record 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

Having emerged unscathed from hotly-contested home games against Big East oppo­nents in their two most recent outings, the Irish will have to defend their undefeated record once again when they welcome St. John’s to Arlotta Stadium. 
On Saturday, No. 2 Notre Dame (8-0, 3-0 Big East) will host St. John’s (4-6, 2-1 Big East) under the lights in the sta­dium’s second-ever night game. Though the Red Storm carry a losing record into the matchup, the Irish coaching staff realizes that its opponent will neverthe­less present a challenge. 
“St. John’s is like so many teams out there right now — they have got a lot of good play­ers, they are very well coached, and they play extremely hard,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “The challenge does not change for us. We are going to play another good team that is dan­gerous and very capable of beating us.” 
Taking their coach’s lead, the Irish are doing all they can to ensure they do not overlook St. John’s and show up ready to play come game time. 
“Every team has a lot of tal­ented guys, so I know it is cliché, but every game you could easily lose,” junior defense Kevin 
see ST. JOHN’S/page 18 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 15, 2011 
COMMENTARY 

ND will win, but it does not matter 
This weekend thousands of Notre Dame fans and alumni will descend upon campus to watch a football game. Thousands of Notre Dame fans, alumni, students and even those who despise the Irish will post tens of thousands of mes­sages on forums about a foot­ball game. 
Thousands will forget one crucial fact about this week­end’s game: It doesn’t matter. At all. 
Yes, the 82nd annu­al Blue-Gold Game will give promising early enrollees and underclassmen opportunities to shine in front of the coach­ing staff. Yes, this spring foot­ball game could shed some light on the pecking order of Irish quarterbacks for next season. And yes, Saturday’s performance could sway some recruits toward the Golden Dome. 
But really, this game doesn’t matter. 
If it mattered, Irish coach Brian Kelly would not wear a microphone for the entire game to better serve the broadcast. 
If it mattered, the four quar­terbacks would not wear head­sets, again tapped by Versus for the armchair quarterbacks. 
If it mattered, Kelly would not promise to primarily use two quarterbacks – two who have never taken a snap in col­lege – and that they would be the leading rushers on the day. 
“Dayne [Crist] and Tommy [Rees] won’t get a lot of work,” Kelly said following Wednesday’s practice. “This is going to be [early enrollee Everett] Golson versus [fresh­man Andrew] Hendrix really, relative to the offense. They’re going to do everything … You’ll see the quarterbacks as proba­bly the biggest end of the run­ning game. They’ll run the ball quite a bit.” 
If it mattered, Kelly would never consider utilizing a hud­dle for most of the game, a concept even he finds laugh­able. 
“We will huddle. That’s when 11 guys get together on the offensive side of the ball,” he said sarcastically. “They relive the last play.” 
The microphones and hud­dles will likely lead to some easy misconceptions from any Irish fans watching. Following last year’s Blue-Gold Game, few Irish fans had any idea who early enrollee quarter­back Tommy Rees was. Instead, the name on their minds was that of then-sopho­more walk-on Nate Montana, the progeny of the one and only Joe Montana. 

That April afternoon, Nate threw for 223 yards on 18 completions in 30 attempts, with three touchdowns and only one interception. 
In the 12-game 2010 season, Nate threw for a measly 116 yards and no touchdowns with one interception. He has since transferred to the University of Montana. 
Indeed, some aspects of Saturday will be worth noting. Senior offensive lineman Taylor Dever, junior linebacker Manti Te’o and junior defen­sive lineman Kapron Lewis-Moore could truly assert them­selves as team leaders, as precedent-setters, plain and simply as the faces all Irish fans recognize. 
In a more tangible vein, two youngsters last spring separat­ed themselves from the pack in the eyes of their coaches, earn­ing crucial roles come fall. 
Then-freshman running back Cierre Wood tallied 111 yards and two touchdowns on only 10 carries, and early enrollee receiver TJ Jones added four catches for 56 yards and a touchdown. 
This weekend, current early enrollee defensive end Aaron Lynch could tally a few sacks and leap up the depth chart, while another standout per­formance from Jones could seal him a starting spot. 
So do note the stand-out per­formances like Montana’s, Wood’s and Jones’, but do not expect any specific results to inherently follow. 
Allow a smile at the promis­ing plays and highlights, but do not bother remembering the inevitable fumbles, blown cov­erages, missed tackles and boneheaded mistakes. None of those mishaps will matter longer than they take to occur in the first place. 
Of the 14 games – yes, that is assuming a bowl game appear­ance – Notre Dame will play over the next nine months, 13 will have lasting effects. In those 13, the Irish could go 13­0 or 0-13, 1-12 or 12-1 and 6-7 or 7-6. 
In this one, since none of what happens on the field will really matter, at least Notre Dame will win. And in all hon­esty, what else matters? 
The views in this column are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Over 40 recruits to visit campus 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

Having already extended more than 100 scholarship offers, Irish coach Brian Kelly will expect more than 40 recruits of the class of 2012 in town this weekend, Irish recruiting analyst Mike Frank said. 
“[Notre Dame has] been doing a very good job of iden­tifying the top players in the country,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN-affiliated web­site irishsportsdaily.com. “When coach Kelly got in here, he wanted to make sure they got the offers out.” 
Leading the onslaught of recruits is running back Ronald Darby. Darby, who has recorded a 4.31 time in the 40-yard dash and has received offers from more than 40 BCS-conference schools. 
“If he’s not the fastest player in the country, he’s certainly one of the top two or three,” Frank said of the Maryland native. “He played running back in high school, but he can play a number of posi­tions, running back, wide receiver or cornerback.” 
While Kelly and his coaching staff pursue Darby as a cor­nerback, another possible defensive back has their eye as well. Texan Nicky Baratti has visited Notre Dame once already — during Junior Day in February — but will be back in town this weekend for another taste of campus. 
“Notre Dame is recruiting him for safety, but he also plays quarterback,” Frank said. “Right now, he’s trying to decide whether he wants to play quarterback or defensive back. He’s got a lot of big-time schools after him.” 
Joining the two high-profile defensive backs this weekend will be two big-name linemen: Andrus Peat and Tommy Schutt, who is from Glen Ellyn, Ill., and will raise many eyebrows at 6-foot-3 and 305 lbs. Meanwhile, Peat, hailing from Tempe, Ariz., checks in at 6-foot-6 and 280 lbs. 
“[Peat] fits exactly what they’re looking for at tackle,” Frank said. “He’s a guy that moves very, very well and has real good size. ... He’s a guy that is exactly what they’re looking for. He is very high on their list with players they would like to land.” 
Among the defensive backs, linemen and 30-some other recruits, two top-of-the-line receivers will also be on cam­pus this weekend, Justin Ferguson from Pembroke Pines, Fla., and Amarah Darboh of West Des Moines, Iowa. Ferguson’s appearance in Indiana impressed Frank. 
“Just to get guys from California and Florida to come up here and take a look,” Frank said. “Usually if they can get them on campus, they’ll have a good shot once the recruiting season rolls around.” 
As for Darboh, Frank said the raw prospect has a very high ceiling. 
“He’s a little raw as far as being polished, but you just don’t see his size and his speed together very often,” he said. “For a player to have both is certainly a plus.” 
With so many recruits in town, along with at least a dozen members of the class of 2011, Frank said the Irish fans will be in the spotlight more than usual. 
“[The recruits are] looking for fan support,” he said. “How excited and crazy are the fans about their football team? 
“It’s a good way for these prospects to get to know Notre Dame’s players — to actually come and hang out with Notre Dame’s players ... whether they feel like they fit in well with the players and the team and enjoy hanging out with them.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Irish freshman quarterback Tommy Rees rolls out to throw a pass during Notre Dame’s 20-16 victory over USC Nov. 27. Rees played minimally in last year’s Blue-Gold Game. 

Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Quarterback battle heats up and stays hot 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
In each of the past three years, Notre Dame has known who would take the first snap of the season long before that snap was taken. This year, however, no one knows. 
“I’d love to have one guy,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said fol­lowing Wednesday’s practice. “I don’t think that’s going to be the case.” 
Even the coach closest to the quarterbacks doesn’t know who the leader will be. 
“Any of the four guys could be the guy,” offensive coordinator Charley Molnar said. 
Four quarterbacks are cur­rently vying for the No. 1 spot on the depth chart. In most cases, the gunslingers have different strengths, styles, and weakness­es. 
“We’re preparing four pack­ages for four guys right now,” Kelly said. “We’re really taking our system and tweaking it toward the strengths and weak­nesses of the four quarterbacks that we have.” 
But make no mistake, this is not about finding the next Notre Dame Heisman Trophy winner. This is not about preparing any­one for the National Football League. This is about one singu­lar goal – the only goal Kelly has. 
“We want to win a champi­onship,” Kelly said. “This is real­ly about getting the quarter­backs in a position to win a championship.” 
The competitors 
Heading into the 2010 season, senior-to-be Dayne Crist had quite a bit of job security — much more than he had coming out of the season. Anointed the starter well before the season opener, Crist performed incon­sistently before a knee injury ended his campaign early during a 28-27 loss to Tulsa. A five-star recruit out of high school, Crist is the most physically gifted of the gunslingers — but he believes that his experience with the system is his best asset, especially compared to last spring. 

“It’s really like night and day,” Crist said. “We look back and say ‘man, we look bad.’ This spring it’s about taking it to the next level.” 
Kelly agrees that Crist’s com­prehension of the offense is nearly unmatched. 
“Dayne probably knows the offense as well as anybody and makes good decisions,” Kelly said. 
When Crist went down, then-freshman Tommy Rees took over under center. Undersized and inexperienced, Rees led the Irish to a 4-0 close to the season, including a signature victory over rival USC in Los Angeles. While the other quarterbacks may be significantly bigger, stronger, and faster than Rees, he has one attribute that stands out about all of the others. 
“Tommy is efficient,” Kelly said. “You start to think about him getting beat out, [but] he’s 4-0 as a starter. He wins.” 
Aside from Rees, another win­ner stands out. While the win­ning instinct of early enrollee Everett Golson has yet to be test­ed, his athletic ability has already been on full display in Golson’s short time on campus. “Everett’s got some unique abili­ties that no one else on the foot­ball team has,” Molnar said. 
Yet Golson is still far behind the other quarterbacks, who have each had at least a year to digest the Kelly system. 
“I’m not sure [Golson] knows what he’s doing all the time, but I’m not going to overcoach him either because he’s got a natural will play about 75% of the game 

– and won’t wear red no-contact jerseys, thus getting their first taste of live-hitting college foot­ball. 
“For the guys who are in com­petition now, it’s serious busi­ness. They’re going to go out, and they’re going to get hit,” Molnar said. “We’re going to see how they respond to the physi­calness of the game of college football.” 
Kelly put the offensive focus squarely on Hendrix and Golson, who will be running their full offensive packages Saturday. 
“This is going to be Golson vs. Hendrix,” Kelly said. “They’re going to run the ball, they’re going to throw the ball, and we’ll get a really good feel from both of those guys, because we know the other two guys can win football games.” 
While the depth chart is fluid, the coaches’ ultimate criteria for the starting spot in the fall is simple and unchanging. 
“At the end of the day, we’re going to say, ‘This is the guy that gives us the best chance to win,’” Molnar said. “It could be a freshman or it could be an upperclassman. Whoever that guy is, dual-threat or pro-style quarterback, that guy will be our guy.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

gift for making plays,” Kelly said. 
Finally, freshman Andrew Hendrix has shown a unique ability to be a jack-of-all-trades. Simultaneously mobile and strong-armed, Hendrix may be the prototypical dual-threat quarterback. 
“Andrew is a great combina­tion of probably all four quarter­backs,” Molnar said. 
While the four are competing for the most vis­ible spot on arguably the most visible move a safety is going to be huge for us.” 
Decision time 

Despite the time poured into the quarterback competition during the spring, Kelly is no closer to naming a starter after the Blue-Gold Game than he was before spring practice started. 
“There’s no way we would leave the spring game — unless something dramatic happens — where we would say we found a starter,” he said. “I’d rather 
football team in “At the end of the day, make it tough America, the it’s our team, and it’s on us now in the on-field rivalry spring and 
not about one person.” 
has only served make it easier to bring the as we move quarterbacks Dayne Crist closer to the 
together. junior quarterback season.” 

“We’re all going to push each other and make each other better,” Crist said. “At the end of the day, it’s our team, and it’s not about one person.” 
Eyes on the prize 

With four quarterbacks com­peting for the starting job, Kelly and his coaching staff have a difficult decision to make. In search of more information to help them make that decision, Kelly brought a new tool to practice — the “Helmet Cam.” 
“We want to be able to evalu­ate all the things they do,” Kelly said. “We have to look at every part of their decision-making. What Helmet Cam allows us to do is track the eyes of the quar­terback through his progres­sion.” 
The Helmet Cam is merely a small unit attached to the signal­caller’s helmet. Its dividends, however, can be huge. 
“Eye control is so important,” Molnar said early in spring practice. “We’ll be able to really see, as long as the camera coor­dinates where their eyes are, and it should — we’re paying a lot of money for it — we can see if [the quarterbacks’] eyes are going to the proper place. 
The four quarterbacks realize the benefits to the small camera as well. 
“It serves as a great teaching tool,” Crist said. “Being able to Molnar would 
not commit to a 
further 
timetabl e, though he did imply that a starter would be named well in advance of the season opener against South Florida. 
“I think it’s going to be as we go through summer camp and someone clearly delineates him­self as the No. 1 quarterback,” he said. 
The Blue-Gold Game, however, will be a key evaluation point for the younger quarterbacks — mainly Hendrix and Golson, who 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 15, 2011 

Theo Riddick 
Junior 
Daniel Smith 
Sophomore

Blue-Gold 
Tyler Eifert 
Junior

Game Mike Ragone 
Graduate Student 


Zack Martin

Projected depth chart 
Junior 
Tate Nichols 
Sophomore

2011 
Andrew Nuss 
Graduate Student

Editor’s Note: These depth 
Brad Carrico 

charts are based on spring Freshman practice observations by ObserverbeatwritersDouglas Farmer,Chris Masoud,Allan 
Dayne Crist 
Braxston Cave
Joseph andAndrew Owens. 
Senior Senior 
Tommy Rees Mike Golic, Jr. 
Sophomore Senior 
Trevor Robinson
Cierre Wood Senior Junior Chris Watt Jonas Gray Junior Senior 
Taylor Dever 
Graduate Student 
Lane Clelland 
Senior 

David Ruffer TJ Jones 
Graduate Student Sophomore 
Nick Tausch Robby Toma 
Junior Junior 

Ben Turk John Goodman 
Senior

Junior 
Kyle Brindza Luke Massa 
Sophomore

Freshman 




OFFENSE 
Saturday’s scrimmage will featue a number of position battles across the gridiron. Juniors John Goodman and Theo Riddick have emerged as the two leaders at the wideout position but sophomore Luke Massa should have an opportunity to open some eyes. Freshman wide receiver Daniel Smith is listed as doubtful as he recovers from a Grade 1 hamstring injury. Sophomore Robby Toma factored into the receiver rotation towards the end of last season and should split time with freshman TJ Jones at the slot position. A strong showing from Mike Golic, Jr., could help the junior’s case for playing time in the fall, especially after a quality spring season. Also in the trenches, early enrollee Brad Carrico will lineup for the first time in Notre Dame Stadium at the guard position. Saturday’s exhibi­tion will do little to decide the position battle Irish fans are most eager to see play out. Junior Dayne Crist and fresh­man Tommy Rees will take thier fair share of snaps, but Kelly has indicated early enrollee Everett Golson and fresh­man Andrew Hendrix will see the most time on the field. Expect the playbook to be opened wide, especially for a ver­satile talent like Golson. 
lingering injury. The rest of the deep linebacking corps, Danny Spond, David Posluszny and Dan Fox look to show as part of a rotation that has a sky-high potential. Ear some significant playing time as well — their performanc significant playing time in the fall. Keep an eye on the big get into playing shape. He has already dropped over 50 could easily develop into a run-stopping force up the mi may very well reload as Lo Wood steps into the void left Jackson, who is new to the cornerback position. A stro depth of the Notre Dame secondary, 
Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Gary Gray 
Graduate Student 
Lo Wood 
Sophomore 

LB 

Prince Shembo 
Jamoris Slaughter 
Sophomore Senior 
Steve Filer Dan McCarthy 
Senior Senior 

OLB S 
Ethan Johnson 
Senior 
Sean Cwynar 
Junior 

Carlo Calabrese 
Junior 
Dan Fox 
Junior 

ILB 
Hafs Williams 
Senior 
Louis Nix 
Sophomore 

Manti Te’o 
Junior 
David Posluszny 
Senior 

ILB 

Kapron Lewis-Moore 
Senior 
Aaron Lynch 
Freshman 

Darius Fleming 
Harrison Smith 
Senior Graduate Student 
Danny Spond Zeke Motta 
Sophomore Junior 

OLB S 
Robert Blanton 
Senior 
Bennett Jackson 
Sophomore 

Sarah O’Connor | The Observer 

CB Brandon Keelean | Observer Graphics
 watch for 



SPECIAL TEAMS 
Special teams will not be a big part of the Blue-Gold Game, as spring games traditionally have restrictions on punt and kickoff coverage to reduce injuries. Expect to see stalwart kicker David Ruffer a few times — every Irish fan knows what to expect out of Ruffer. Nick Tausch should also share some of the placekicking duties Saturday. There will be an interesting battle to watch at the punting position. Ben Turk is now entering his third year of punting, but freshman punter/kicker Kyle Brindza has quite a bit of leg strength and could push Turk on the depth chart if the junior-to-be struggles. While the extent of the return game is somewhat unclear, Bennett Jackson will factor prominently in Notre Dame’s 2011 return efforts. The two most explosive players on the team, receiver Theo Riddick and running back Cierre Wood, could also see some time returning kicks in 2011, though Irish coach Brian Kelly may limit their duties to prevent injuries as Wood is the leader of an already-depleted running back unit and will be heavily utilized on offense. 
ENSE 
nit, will almost certainly not play Saturday as he nurses a however, will be on full display as hungry hitters such as the coaches that they will deserve playing time in the fall ly enrollees Aaron Lynch and Ishaq Williams should see es will say a lot about how ready they are to step into any g guy in the middle — Louis Nix has been working hard to pounds and, if he continues to work himself into shape, ddle. A secondary unit missing 2010 leader Darrin Walls by Walls’ graduation. Keep an eye on the play of Bennett ong performance by him could bode good things for the 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 15, 2011 
Early enrollees eagerly await Stadium debut 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Individually, each of them hails from a different state, plays a different position on the field and dominated the compe­tition in high school, but togeth­er the five early enrollees are already making an impact dur­ing their first month of organ­ized football at Notre Dame. 
While many Irish fans eagerly await the debut of the enrollees in Notre Dame Stadium in Saturday’s annual Blue-Gold scrimmage, the feeling is mutu­al. 
“It’s going to be a great feel­ing when I walk out of the tun­nel since I’ve been a Notre Dame fan all my life,” early enrollee kicker Kyle Brindza said. “I’ve been in pressure sit­uations in high school, so I’m able to cope with the pressure pretty well. It’s going to be a blast to walk out of that tunnel, but it’s not going to faze me too much.” 
A football and soccer stand­out in high school and a native of Canton, Mich., Brindza was recruited by Michigan following his junior year. Brindza said once Notre Dame showed inter­est, the decision to graduate a semester early and leave his home state was an easy one. 

“There was no way I could take another school’s offer over Notre Dame,” Brindza said. “It’s such an amazing school, growing up a Notre Dame fan. My grandpa graduated here. I was so blessed that I was able to even get an offer to come here.” 
Brindza, who will compete for playing time at two positions behind senior kicker David Ruffer and sophomore punter Ben Turk, said the tougher decision was giving up a future in competitive soccer. However, the kicker has taken up Ruffer as a mentor on and off the field and has no misgivings over the sacrifice. 
“It’s tough here only playing one sport when in high school I was playing two sports all year round,” Brindza said. “It’s a pretty big transition, but I’m glad I took the leap in. I live with no regrets, and I don’t regret quitting soccer to play 


Bennett Jackson 
Old Number: 86 Louis Nix Old Number: 67  New Number: 2 New Number: 9  
Tommy Rees Old Number: 13 Robby Toma Old Number: 19  New Number: 11 New Number: 9  

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
football because I love it here.” 

Early enrollee Ishaq Williams has also found mentors in jun­iors Darius Felming and Steve Filer. Williams, an outside line­backer and native of Brooklyn, N.Y., said the veteran lineback­ers have given him advice in his pursuit of the ball, his tech­nique and his quarterback reads. 
“Darius and Filer are great guys,” Williams said. “I don’t think I would be able to make the strides that I have made without them. They’re the play­ers I look to tell me what to do. They’ve been there to help me with this process.” 
The early enrollment process can be a daunting one for any freshman, let alone five 18­year-olds representing a hand­ful of students in the nation that sacrificed a final semester of high school to compete at the Division I level. That adjust­ment to college can be especial­ly difficult in the classroom, where Williams said he has made strides to grasp new material. 
“I didn’t feel comfortable, but I didn’t feel like I made a mis­take [enrolling early],” Williams said. “I didn’t want to stay in New York to just get lazier and not work as hard. I just wanted to get into the swing of things and establish myself at this level.” 
While Brindza and early enrollee Everett Golson said first year composition has been a particularly difficult class, each has been using the avail­able resources 
Golson, a native of Myrtle Beach, S.C., has put in addition­al work inside the classrooms of the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, where he studies film with his fellow quarterbacks. A versatile athlete, Golson said he has received advice from quarter-
to  succeed.  “Everybody’s just  backs, wide  
Pleased with the progress each of the five has  focused on one goal, and that’s winning a  receivers and r u n n i n g backs this  
made  on  the  national championship.”  spring.  
field, Irish coach  “We could  
Brian more their  Kelly is proud of accom- Everett Golson early enrollee quarterback  be up some­times [at] 8, 9 o’clock at  
plishments  as  night  just  
students.  w a t c h i n g  
“They  get  film,  and  

thrown into a very competitive those guys are really into it just environment, almost more so helping me,” Golson said. than football when it comes to “Everybody’s just focused on academics, and they are fight-one goal, and that’s winning a ing their tails off,” Kelly said. “I national championship.” think that’s what I’m most Golson added that the majori­proud of for the five guys.” ty of his education has been 

Austin Collinsworth 
Old Position: Wide Receiver New Position: Safety 
Bennett Jackson 
Old Position: Wide Receiver New Position: Cornerback 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

nonverbal, as he has taken cues from Crist and Rees on the field to develop the leadership skills of the quarterback position. 
“I’m learning a lot,” Golson said. “Most things I’ve learned are not really from the play­book, but the intangibles: how to carry yourself, being that leader on the field and just a lot of stuff from those guys that is not from talking to [them]. 
In the trenches, early enrollees Brad Carrico and Aaron Lynch have also made progress on different sides of the ball. Carrico made the switch from a defensive end to an offensive tackle during his senior year of high school in Dublin, Ohio, while Lynch is transitioning from a high school to a Division I end. 
“I was always bigger than everybody, bigger than the offensive linemen, so I guess I had an advantage over every­body,” Lynch said, “But here I’m smaller than all the offen­sive linemen. You can’t just use your bull rush. We go over all the techniques and the moves because you have to use those at this level. You can’t run over someone here.” 
A native of Cape Coral, Fla., Lynch committed to Notre Dame following a visit from defensive coordinator Bob Diaco in early January. Lynch and Williams competed togeth­er in the 2011 U.S. Army All-American Bowl, and Irish fans will see them on the field together again this Saturday. 
“We have a great relationship because we room together,” Lynch said. “Sometimes we’ll go over plays together, and on the field he’s a cat [linebacker], so he’s right next to me sometimes when we’re in a dime or nickel [package].” 
Kelly indicated the spring scrimmage will do less to deter­mine starting positions in the fall than performance over the course of the training season. 
Contact Chris Masoud at 
cmasoud@nd.edu 


Friday, April 15, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Kelly’s first year marked by highs and lows 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
In a tumultuous 2010 sea­son that featured extreme highs, like a signature victory 
over archrival USC, and extreme lows, including two of the program’s worst losses in history, the Irish underwent a transition led by first-year coach Brian Kelly few could have imagined. 
The excitement of a new coach led to one of the most highly anticipated season openers in recent memory as the Irish hosted in-state rival Purdue at Notre Dame Stadium to kickoff the Kelly era. 
The result was a 23-12 Irish victory — by no means a per­fect performance, but one that displayed a commitment to the fundamentals lacking in years past. 
Kelly was not the only new face of the team — junior sig­nal caller Dayne Crist started for the Irish for the first time after Jimmy Clausen headed to the NFL. Crist was efficient and managed the game well, completing 19-of-26 passes and throwing for 205 yards and a touchdown in his debut. 
Kelly’s honeymoon period quickly evaporated during the final three games in September though — all loss­es, two of them in heartbreak­ing fashion. 
In the second game of the year, Michigan sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson shredded the Notre Dame defense for 502 yards of total offense in a 28-24 Wolverines victory. 
With 3:41 remaining and Notre Dame backed up against its own end zone, the sun poked out of the clouds and gave the Irish a glimmer of hope, albeit a short-lived one. Crist, who had reentered the game following an eye injury in the first half, con­nected with junior tight end Kyle Rudolph, who scampered down the field 96 yards to put the Irish on top. 

Robinson, however, stole the last-minute heroics as he ran in for a two-yard score with 27 seconds left to finish a 12­play, 72-yard drive. 
The Irish lost in similar fashion the next week at Michigan State. The team gave up a fourth-quarter lead, allowing the Spartans to force overtime. Following a con­verted field goal by senior kicker David Ruffer in the first half of overtime, the Irish defense did its job, forcing a loss of four yards in three plays. Spartans coach Mark Dantonio made the signature decision of his team’s 11-1 regular season by calling for a fake field goal rather than attempting a 46-yard kick. Punter Aaron Bates found tight end Charlie Gantt, who went in for the easy touch­down and Michigan State vic­tory, dropping Notre Dame to 1-2. 
The Irish came home to face eventual Orange Bowl qualifi­er Stanford, and were embar­rassed in a 37-14 rout in front 
of the home crowd. The Cardinals gained 404 yards on the Irish, leading ESPN ana­lyst Kirk Herbstreit to refer to the Notre Dame unit as a “high school defense.” 
Notre Dame responded with a three-game winning streak to improve to 4-3 on the sea­son, just past the midway point. The streak began with the team’s first win at Boston College since 1998, and con­cluded with home victories against Pittsburgh and Western Michigan. 

No one could have expected what transpired next. The winning streak came to a screeching halt the next week when Notre Dame played Navy on the road. The Midshipmen only passed the ball twice the entire game, but they did not need to — they imposed their will on the Irish defense with 367 rush­ing yards. The 35-17 loss was the most lopsided defeat Notre Dame suffered in the series since 1963. It was also the program’s third loss to Navy in four games. 


Sept. 3  vs.South Florida  3:30  
Sept. 10  at Michigan  8:00  
Sept. 17  vs. Michigan State  3:30  
Sept. 24  at Pittsburgh  TBA  
Oct. 1  at Purdue  TBA  
Oct. 8  vs.Air Force  3:30  
Oct. 22  vs.USC  7:30  
Oct. 29  vs. Navy  3:30  
Nov.5  at Wake Forest  TBA  
Nov.12  vs. Maryland (Washington, D.C.)  7:30  
Nov.19  vs.Boston College  4:00  
Nov.26  at Stanford  TBA  

The Irish sunk even further the next weekend while host­ing Tulsa. 
The Golden Hurricane upset Notre Dame 28-27, dropping the Irish to 4-5 on the season and putting any hopes of earning a postseason berth in jeopardy. The Irish were dealt a devastating blow during the game when Crist suffered a season-ending knee injury for the second consecutive sea­son, putting freshman Tommy Rees in the spotlight for the final three regular-season games. 
Despite the adversity, the team pulled together to win the final four games of the season, finishing 8-5, includ­ing a 33-17 blowout of Miami in the Sun Bowl. The transfor­mation occurred during the bye week following the Tulsa loss. 
In the final three regular season games, the defense allowed only one touchdown 
— a one-yard run on fourth down to USC after the offense turned the ball over on the Notre Dame two-yard line. 
On Nov. 13, the Irish earned their first victory over a ranked opponent since Sept. 9, 2006 when they defeated No. 15 Utah, 28-3. The stu­dents were ecstatic, rushing the field to celebrate the Senior Day victory. 
The following week, the team played in an historic neutral -site game against Army at Yankee Stadium. Once again, the Irish defense held the opponent to only a field goal as Notre Dame won, 27-3. 
The top moment of the 2010 season occurred in the regu­lar season finale when the Irish traveled across the country for a battle with archrival USC. The Trojans had defeated Notre Dame eight consecutive times by an average of 24.5 points per game. 
In weather that resembled South Bend, Ind., rather than Los Angeles, the Irish put together a seven-play, 77-yard game-winning drive capped off by a five-yard touchdown run by senior Robert Hughes. 
With a 7-5 record, Notre Dame earned a berth in the Sun Bowl against former rival Miami. The Irish rolled to vic­tory to conclude an 8-5 inau­gural season for Kelly and provide momentum for the 2011 campaign. 
After such a strong finish to 2010, Saturday’s Blue-Gold game will only whet fans’ appetites for Sept. 3 when Notre Dame hosts South Florida. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 15, 2011 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Spring renewal 
Notre Dame began spring practice Wednesday, March 23 at 8 a.m. Since 
then, the Irish have practiced early in the morning on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and midday on Saturdays. Practices were conducted both indoors in the Loftus Sports Center and outdoors at the LaBar Practice Fields. Saturday’s Blue-Gold Game is the culmination of spring practice and serves as a prelude to the 2011 campaign. 




SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 




