the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students,professors reflect on Egypt 
Evacuated students begin class three weeks late 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
One year ago, junior Chris Luboja began preparing to spend the spring 2011 semester studying abroad in Cairo. 
This week, he moved into Stanford Hall, enrolled in classes on campus and met with professors and advisors to make sure he could catch up after beginning classes three weeks late. 
Luboja is one of 12 Notre Dame students who were evacuated from Cairo on Jan. 31 due to ongoing protests in Egypt. The stu­dents arrived in Cairo Jan. 20, planning to spend a semester at the American University in Cairo (AUC). After their evacuation, they chose between returning to Notre Dame’s campus in South Bend and entering Notre Dame’s London Program. 
“It is disappointing, ” Luboja said. “Obviously you get to see a bit of history, which is really amazing, but at the same time all of us were ready to be there for four months and experience 
see STUDENTS/page 4 



AP Egyptian anti-government protestors stand in Cairo’s Tahrir Square Wednesday. 


Kroc panel analyzes situation in Middle East 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The protests in Egypt mark a moment in history that will have far-reaching effects for the entire Middle East, three experts said in a Wednesday panel discussion. 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies presented the panel, “Democratic Revolution in the Middle East? The Rise of Civil Resistance in Tunisia, Egypt, Lebanon and Beyond,” in response to the unrest cur­rently sweeping the region. The panel featured Emad Shahin, associate professor of Religion, Conflict and Peacebuilding, Asher Kaufman, associate professor of history and Peace Studies and David Cortright, director of Policy Studies. 
Shahin said the movements in Tunisia and Egypt are grassroots in nature. 
“Young people began to use social media to mobilize the population,” Shahin said. “There was an unprecedent­ed show of public interest and everything was non-vio­lent, peaceful.” 
Economic issues and human values also caused the protests in Egypt, Shahin 
see PANEL/page 3 



Candidates debate platforms 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
Candidates for 2011-2012 stu­dent body president and vice president debated their platforms and presented ideas for improv­ing life at Notre Dame at a Wednesday night debate in LaFortune Student Center. 
Five tickets will be on Monday’s ballot. The candidates answered questions from Michael Thomas, vice president of elections for Judicial Council, on their plans to improve student life and student government. 
Candidates Catherine Soler and Emily LeStrange touted their knowledge of student government as their biggest asset. 
“Our experience is really a great advantage because there has never been the opportunity to have this continuity of leader­ship,” Soler said. “That takes a long time to develop. A huge part of when we started here was fig­uring out how to navigate through the administration and through student government so after this year we would save an incredible amount of time in tran­sition.” 
Soler currently serves as stu­dent body president, and LeStrange is chair of the off-cam­pus concerns council. 
see DEBATE/page 3 



Students brave cold for Center for the Homeless 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Facing one of the coldest days of the year in only san­dals, shorts and T-shirts, men of Siegfried Hall walked to class, stood in front of build­ings and collected donations for South Bend’s Center for the Homeless. 
Sophomore Andrew Ritter, Siegfried Hall president and coordinator for the Day of Man, said this annual event has allowed the men of Siegfried Hall to stand in soli­darity with the homeless since 2007. 
“By standing with the home­less for a day, even though it’s not nearly what they go through the entire year, it cre­ates waves on campus,” he said. “When you see a guy walking around in minimal clothing on a day with a nega­tive one [degree] for a low, you notice. We’re showing our support for the South Bend community.” 
This year 200 of Siegfried’s 248 residents participated, Ritter said, demonstrating strength and humility. 
“It’s the toughness of being able to say you can stand in that weather, but for the right reasons,” he said. “We stand outside of DeBartolo Hall and North and South Dining Hall with cups that people drop money into.” 
Freshman Michael Harvey said that, despite the cold, he finds encouragement from other Notre Dame students. 
“I’ve learned how cold nega­tive 15 [degree] wind chill is and that I’ve noticed a 5 degree increase in tempera­ture since the morning,” he said. “Your fingers and toes go numb as you walk from Siegfried to DeBartolo, but people are supportive which makes it a lot better.” 
Lisa Knox, a representative from the Center for the Homeless, said the organiza­tion and its guests appreciate the time these men dedicate to raising money. 
“We think these guys are stellar. The fact that they’ve done this unique fundraising 
see SIEGFRIED/page 4 


SARAH O’CONNOR/ The Observer Sophomores Jesus Perez, left, and Davis Hayes made snow angels when a donation of $10 was made to the Center for the Homeless. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senate discusses meeting with trustee page 3  Viewpoint page 8  Grammys preview page 10  Men’s basketball wins in OT page 20 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, February 10, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Chris Allen Alicia Smith Matt Robison Christian Myers Katie Helt Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint 



CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST COMMERCIAL DURING THE SUPER BOWL? 







Emily Wurz  Christie Ahn  Meredith Thomas  Emily Palid  Erin Jenkins  
junior  sophomore  junior  junior  freshman  
Welsh Family  Lewis  Breen Phillips  Lewis  Lewis  
“I didn’t watch  “The Darth  “The Doritos  “The Darth  “The Chevy  
the Super Bowl.  Vader  one with the  Vader  Silverado  
I watched the  Volkswagen  pug”  commercial, it  commercial  
Puppy Bowl  one”  was adorable.”  where the kid is  
instead.”  stuck in a well  
and stuff.”  


Julie Herder/The Observer Students make sure Irish coach Mike Brey’s presence is known while Terrence Jennings of Louisville shoots a freethrow during last night’s men’s basketball game. The Irish won in overtime. 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
A free strength training orientation will be given from 
3:15 to 4:15 p.m. today in the RSRC Classroom of the Rolfs Center. The orientation will provide instruction on the safe and effective use of both the strength and cardiovascu­lar equipment. Register via RecRegister (fitness and instructional/special pro ­grams). 
The women’s tennis team will face Michigan today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion . Matches begin at 4 p.m. and admission is free. 
Michael Huber will discuss “Modeling and Predicting Rare Events in Baseball” as part of the math for everyone series. The discussion will take place in 117 Hayes -Healy from 5 to 6:30 p.m. tonight , and pizza and refreshments will follow. 

Tonight from 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m. the film “Inside Job” will be shown in the 
Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film chronicles the 2008 financial crisis. Admission ranges from $3 to $6. 
The Stepan Center will house the Keenan Revue , which takes place from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. tonight. Tickets are required for admission. 
The Student Union Board is sponsoring screenings of the film “The Notebook” tonight, Friday and Saturday. Tonight’s showing will begin at 10 p.m. and end at mid­night in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



OFFBEAT 

Former mayor’s name too funny for new gov. center 
FORT WAYNE — Modern-day city leaders say they probably won’t name a new government center for a for­mer mayor because of the jokes his name could inspire. 
Harry Baals is the run­away favorite in online vot­ing to name the new build­ing in Fort Wayne. 
The issue is pronunciation. The former mayor pro­nounced his last name “balls.” His descendants have since changed it to “bales.” 
An online site taking sug­gestions for names showed more than 1,000 votes Tuesday for the Harry Baals Government Center. That’s more than three times the votes received by the closest contender. 
Jim Baals, 51, who has lived in the city his entire life, said it’s unfortunate that his great-uncle’s name won’t be considered for the build­ing. 
“Harry served four terms and was a wonderful mayor. I don’t know what the prob­lem is,” he said. “I under­stand people are going to poke fun at it. That’s OK. I’ve lived with that name for 51 years now and I’ve gotten through it. I think everybody else can, too.” 
Maine biologists nab owl taking heads off chickens 
BETHEL, Maine — A Maine barred owl was caught inside a barn where it had been decapitating one chicken a day and flying off with the heads. 
The Sun Journal newspa­per reports that the owl killed five or six chickens. The owl was captured Sunday and has been taken to a wildlife rehabilitation center. 
Wildlife biologist Judy Camuso says owls are having a tough time finding food this winter and the owl was try­ing to survive. She says it was near death. 
Camuso says chickens are too big for owls to carry off and owls are notorious for eating heads, though usually the heads of rodents. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 


Thursday, February 10, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


STUDENT SENATE 




Solerreviewstrusteemeeting 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student body president Catherine Soler updated the Student Senate on student government’s recent commu­nications with Notre Dame’s Board of Trustees at Wednesday’s meeting. 
Student government typical­ly presents to the Board three times each year, but a meeting that had been scheduled for last week was cancelled due to snowstorms. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said many of the trustees were unable to travel to South Bend for the meeting. 
In place of the larger pres­entation, Soler and Bell met with one trustee. The informa­tion from that meeting will be sent to the rest of the board. Bell said the meeting would 


Panel 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Only 200 individuals con­trolled 90 percent of the national wealth in Egypt, according to Shahin. 
“An alliance between state bureaucracy and business cronies created corruption, producing lots of losers and very few winners,” he said. 
Kaufman discussed the political landscape of Lebanon and its relationship to the rest of the Middle East. 
not be rescheduled. 
Soler said one of the main points discussed at the meet­ing was communication between the University and the students. 
They spoke specifically about e-mails the student body receives from University President Fr. John Jenkins, Soler said. These e-mails included those about the death of junior Declan Sullivan and the events sur­rounding the death of Saint Mary’s student Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg, 
“That’s an essential part of being a part of the University, and making sure students are a part of that,” Soler said. 
Bell and Soler also talked to the trustee about the contin­ued efforts of student govern­ment to collaborate with the South Bend Police Department. Soler said she 
“What we’re seeing now in Lebanon is part of the larger picture,” he said. “The abili­ty of Lebanon to really have an effect on the Middle East is miniscule and the events in Egypt will certainly have more dramatic effects.” 
Kaufman said the events in Egypt might change the sense of political stagnation that pervades the Middle East. 
“We’re witnessing an his­torical moment of cata ­clysmic powers,” he said. “We’ll have to wait and see where it takes us.” 
Cortright discussed the non -violent nature of the hopes that relationship will continue in the future. 

Soler and Bell also said they talked to the trustee about changes with off-campus rep­resentatives in student gov­ernment. 
“We’ve made changes to the Off-Campus Council and we hope that will continue to make things better in the future,” Soler said. 
She said there is a need for centralizing the services that are available to off-campus students. 
“When incidents arise off campus, the University doesn’t have one place to find resources right now,” Soler said. 
Student government’s next presentation to the Board of Trustees will be in April. 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
protests in Egypt. 
“This is perhaps the most dramatic expression of peo­ple power in history,” he said. “Never before have people in a region mobilized in such numbers.” 
Cortright said the protes­tors’ non-violent approach sends a positive message. 
“We can see that the means of non-violent resist­ance are an effective tool for social change and are creat­ing an entirely new politics in Egypt and throughout the region,” he said. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
“Looking to the next adminis­tration, we are really focusing on doing things in the academic world. For example, we have a really great plan to improve tutor­ing resources,” LeStrange said. 
While presidential candidate Pat McCormick and running mate Brett Rocheleau both currently serve in student government, they proposed a reinvention of student government as a platform for larger social justice issues. 
“Are we going to have the stu­dent government we have always had, or can we build this bigger? Can we re-imagine what student government is about? We have outlined a series of proposals in our platform that we think will do this,” McCormick said. “We think we can make Notre Dame the moral conscience of higher educa­tion in the United States.” 
Junior class president James Ward and freshman class presi­dent Heather Eaton presented their platform as modeled solely and specifically on student ideas. 
“We heard a lot of people com­plain that student government just works for themselves as an insti­tution,” Eaton said. “Which is why we are running on platforms that are all student ideas. The things we are running for are things that we know you want to hear.” 
Presidential candidate Ricky Bevington and vice presidential candidate Olivia Colangelo said they want to bring more unity to campus. 
“The primary way we would like to improve campus life is by providing more opportunities for the student body to come together as one student body,” Bevington said. 
Their ideas included a student body prayer service, a student-to­student advice network and stu­dent pep rallies for more sports. 
The candidates outlined their plans to improve day-to-day stu­dent life. 
Eaton said she and Ward would revamp the current system for online course registration, increase the number of points for Grab n’ Go and install more power outlets in the Hesburgh Library and LaFortune Student Center. 
McCormick said he would cre­ate new ways for students to con­tact student government with ideas. He and Rocheleau also promised to make the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE) more acces­sible to students and open a pub for students and professors to meet casually. 
“We think we have the most advanced student services plat­form of any ticket here,” McCormick said. 
Soler and LeStrange said they plan to begin “Whine Wednesdays” to receive consistent student feedback. 
They also said their administra­tion would work to install lights on McGlinn Fields, build a heated bus stop at Library Circle and engage more with Hall Presidents’ Council. LeStrange said her ticket wants to improve kitchen and exercise facilities in many older dorms. 
Bevington and Colangelo dis­cussed a plan to review the differ­ences between residence halls. 
“We have a really unique resi­dence life structure here, and we don’t want to change that,” Colangelo said. “But there are obviously ways we could make it better.” 
McCormick said he and Rocheleau would expand student government to make its governing body more effective. They would create a committee to work on small issues, such as printing quo­tas and dining hall suggestions, brought forward by students. 
Their points at the debate also included popular campaign prom­ises, such as restoring the price of hot dogs in the Huddle to 25 cents. McCormick outlined plans for a large charity concert in the Joyce Center or Notre Dame stadi­um. 
Ward said he would like to ana­lyze the financial aid system and establish a tiered tuition system similar to those used at Harvard and Yale. 
The Eaton-Ward ticket also offered ideas about drinking cul­ture and disciplinary records, such as removing first-year offenses from students’ perma­nent records. 
“We want to address some of the drinking culture here on cam­pus, in particular the ban on drinking games and the affect it has to student life,” Ward said. 
Candidates Kevin Noonan and Matthew Thomas formed the perennial Zahm Hall ticket and received loud support from fellow Zahmbies in the audience. 
Noonan and Thomas proposed “hangover hours” in the dining halls on Saturday and Sunday afternoons with a “firm no-speak­ing-above-a-whisper policy, dim lights, free Advil and no offensive food.” 
The ticket also campaigned to remove Mod Quad from Notre Dame and install a weather-con­trol dome over campus. 
Voting will be held Monday. Students will receive an e-mail from the Judicial Council directing them to the voting website, which will be open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
A ticket must win 50 percent of the student body vote to win the election, and the large number of tickets will likely send the election to a runoff, Thomas said. Another debate would be held between the remaining candidates before the runoff election. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 10, 2011 

STUDENT GOVERN ENT ASSOCIATION 


Group allocates funds to athletic department 
SGA to give $1,000 for equipment repairs and replacements in Angela Athletic Facility 


By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) voted Wednesday to set aside $1,000 of its capital budget to repair or replace fitness equip­ment for student use. 
Athletics Commissioner Christine Brown approached the board the first meeting of the semester with a request from the Athletics Department asking for a full or partial reimbursement of funds that were used to replace two back­boards. SGA discussed the request at its last meeting and decided it needed more infor­mation from the Athletics Department. 
Saint Mary’s Athletic Director Julie Schroeder-Biek was pres­ent at the beginning of Wednesday’s meeting to discuss the reimbursement request and answer questions. Schroeder-Biek said the Athletic Department requested the reimbursement because the money it spent on the back­boards cut into its funds for the Angela Athletic facility, which students use. 
The Athletic Department replaced the backboards to ful­fill new NCAA equipment regu­lations. According to a new NCAA mandate, “starting with the 2010-2011 season, a red light placed behind each back­board or LED lights placed around the backboard shall be required.” 
The Athletic Department was informed of the change in regu­lations two years ago and anticipated the cost; however, problems arose when the LED lights did not fit the back­boards. 
“The backboards were so outdated that the LED lights did not fit,” Schroeder-Biek said. “The additional costs to replace the backboards were unexpected.” 
Schroeder-Biek said the money spent on the new back­boards was pulled from the portion of the fundraising money student athletes earn from football parking in the fall semester. She said the Athletic Department has a set budget and no funds to request new 

Siegfried 
continued from page 1 
is really humbling,” Knox said. “Their impact is great and the money they raise for the shelter is critical, but most importantly, they raise aware­ness of our organization and its volunteer opportunities.” 
Siegfried residents also con­tinue to collect money after the Day of Man. E-mails sent to friends and family bring in contributions, Ritter said, and the dorm ends collections around the end of February. 
“If people just want to make a check to the Center for the Homeless and send it to our rector [Fr.] John Conley, then equipment, which led to using general funds for the Angela Athletic facility. 
“As you know, the back­boards are used not only by the basketball team, but also by intramural basketball,” Schroeder-Biek said. “There are over 1,000 people a week using the fitness center. 
“We put in this reimburse­ment request because the cost of the new backboards [$3,380] cut into the funds for updating the facility,” Schroeder-Biek said. “That’s where the [reim­bursement] money would go — back into the fitness center.” 
Schroeder-Biek thanked the board for extending the oppor­tunity to clarify the issue and left. The board discussed the issue with a pro and con list. 
Those who supported giving funds to the Athletics Department focused on the point that the money would be going to support the athletic facility and eventually it would benefit the entire student body. 
“It may open a can of worms, but there are 1,100 girls that go to the gym every week,” senior Julie Laemmle said. “Not only will students use it, but prospective students tour­ing the campus would be more attracted to equipment more recent than the 1970s.” 
SGA also debated the effect that granting this request to the Athletics Department, which is outside of SGA’s usual jurisdiction, would have in set­ting a precedent for future requests. 
“If we give money to one department, we open ourselves to other departments, including academic departments that we don’t fund,” Student Diversity Board President Morgan Gay said. “It would be setting the wrong precedent; SGA tradi­tionally gives money to student clubs and organizations.” 
After an extended discussion and a motion with several amendments, it was decided that SGA will set aside $1,000 of the remaining $3,218.96 available of the capital budget for repairs and equipment replacement to the Angela Athletic facility. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
we’d be more than happy to take donations any time dur­ing February,” he said. “But donations to the Center for the Homeless are always more than welcome.” 
Knox said the Center also welcomes students to volun­teer and become involved in the organization. 
“Peter Lombardo, our direc­tor of community involvement, coordinates outreach on cam­pus. If you want to volunteer, contact him or you can visit us online at cfh.net,” she said. “I would encourage anyone to help us or to check their local organizations and see what they can do.” 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at  ntoczaue@nd.edu 




SaintMary’shostsblooddrive 
Students 
continued from page 1 

that area and travel around that region.” 
As one of five students who returned to South Bend, Luboja said he based his decision on his personal comfort level. 
“I had spent the last year kind of mentally preparing myself for Cairo, so I don’t think I was really in the mindset to jump on board with London,” he said. 
Luboja said he was able to enroll in courses that will allow him to continue work­ing toward his majors in finance and Arabic. 
“The University pretty much left all the doors open for us,” he said. “They were really accommodating because they want to make sure we graduate on time and get the classes we need.” 
Junior Alex Huth, who was in Cairo with Luboja, decid­ed to enter Notre Dame’s London Program. 
“I wanted to go to London because I had already decid­ed I wanted to study abroad,” he said. 
Mike Huth, Alex’s father, said he encouraged Alex to go to London. 
“I think all of them were really unhappy with the way things turned out and really disappointed,” Mike said. “We were kind of encourag­ing them to go to London, … stay the course on this over-College. 
The drive was held in the Earley Conference Rooms of the Student Center Basement. 
Kathy Strycker, Goshen team supervisor for the Red Cross, said the drive was a success. 
“We’ve been very impressed,” Strycker said. “We’ve had 23 people donate this first hour. We hope this sets the tone for the day. We had a goal of 74 units, and we’ve been fortunate enough to have 95 people sign up.” 
“I’m surprised by how many people signed up and by how many are returning donors,” senior Christine Gallic added. 
seas semester.” 

Alex arrived in London with six other Notre Dame students last week. He said the process of being evacuat­ed from Egypt to Turkey, deciding whether to go to London or return to South Bend and scheduling courses for the semester was more stressful than the days he spent in Cairo without access to Internet or mobile phone connections. The University was helpful, Alex said, but the process was “a night­mare.” 
While Alex has not deter­mined whether he will con­tinue his major in Arabic in addition to his finance major, he said Notre Dame’s London Program is working to arrange an Arabic course for the students who left Cairo. 
“In my opinion, Notre Dame did a really good job being accommodating to us,” he said. 
Alex said he and the six 
other students who were originally in Cairo live in a dormitory building in Chelsea, an area of the city that is a 45 minute walk from Notre Dame’s campus in Trafalgar Square. The other Notre Dame under ­graduates studying in London live more than an hour walking distance from Chelsea. 
Junior Henry Hodes also chose to go to London after leaving Cairo. Despite the disappointment of leaving Cairo, he said he is happy to still have a study abroad 
Despite a previous experi­ence of fainting while donat­ing blood, sophomore Julia Fletcher donated blood for her second time Wednesday. 
“It’s a really good cause, and I want to help out any way I can,” Fletcher said. 
Kornexl said donating blood is important because one donation can save up to three lives. 
Senior Kelly Zenere said donating blood is a way to give back to the community. 
“I feel like I’m giving back with my body,” Zenere said. “To me, it’s the biggest way to give back.” 

Contact Susan Head at shead02@saintmarys.edu 
By SUSAN HEAD 
News Writer 

Saint Mary’s students, fac­ulty and staff donated blood at an American Red Cross blood drive on Saint Mary’s campus Wednesday. 
According to the Red Cross, recent snowstorms led to the cancellation of blood drives and 1,000 units of blood have gone uncollected. 
“The blood supply is at crit­ically low levels due to this issue, so we encourage everyone who is able to give blood to do so this Wednesday,” said Jennifer Kornexl, blood drive coordi­nator for Saint Mary’s experience. 
“I’ve not regretted it since we got here,” Hodes said. “Again, it’s not Cairo, it’s not what we originally intend­ed,” he said. “We’re having to be a little flexible when it comes to where we’re living, for example.” 
Mike Huth said while it was scary to be out of touch with his son while he was in Cairo, he was impressed by Notre Dame’s communica­tion with parents. 
“There was about a two-day period where we really didn’t have much contact at all with [Alex] and … we were glued to CNN pretty much from the time we got up from the time we went to bed, ” Mike said. “[Notre Dame] did a great job of staying in touch by e-mail and the American University 
i n  C a i r o  a l s o  d i d  a  g r e a t  
job.”  
L u b o j a  s a i d  h e  a n d  t h e  

other 11 students continue to follow media coverage of the events in Egypt. 
“Now it’s a little personal having been there,” he said. 
He also had the opportuni­ty to meet Egyptian students and has kept in touch with them since he left Cairo. 
“Every time I talk to them they say, ‘You have to come back’ because I think they kind of feel bad that they weren’t able to see every­thing,” Luboja said. “I defi­nitely plan on going back once everything stabilizes.” 


Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 10, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 5 



Congressmanresignsaftersendingphotos 
Associated Press 
CLARENCE, N.Y. — A mar­ried New York congressman accused of sending a shirtless photo of himself to a woman abruptly resigned Wednesday, saying he regretted actions that had hurt his family and others. 
The gossip website Gawker reported Wednesday that Rep. Christopher Lee, a two-term Republican with a young son, had e-mailed the photo to a woman he met on the Craigslist classified-ads website. 
Lee said in an e-mailed state­ment that his resignation was effective immediately. The statement offered no confirma­tion or details of a Craigslist posting. 
“I regret the harm that my actions have caused my family, my staff and my constituents,” Lee said in a statement posted on his congressional website. “I deeply and sincerely apologize to them all. I have made pro­found mistakes and I promise to work as hard as I can to seek their forgiveness.” 
Lee said the challenges faced in western New York, where he serves the 26th Congressional District, and across the country are “too serious for me to allow this distraction to continue, so I am announcing that I have resigned my seat in Congress effective immediately.” 
Lee’s resignation comes almost a year after Democrat Eric Massa resigned his seat in western New York’s 29th Congressional District amid an investigation into whether he sexually harassed male staffers. Massa gave contradic­tory explanations for his behavior, acknowledging he groped and tickled a staffer in a nonsexual way and wrestled with others at his 50th birth­day party but then denying any groping occurred. 
In Lee’s case, a woman described as a 34-year-old Maryland resident and govern­ment employee provided Gawker with e-mails she said were an exchange between her and Lee in response to an ad she placed last month in the “Women Seeking Men” section of Craigslist. 

Gawker reported that Lee identified himself as a divorced lobbyist and sent a photo of himself posing shirtless in front of a mirror. It said the woman eventually broke off the contact with Lee after becoming suspi­cious that he had misrepre­sented himself. 



Officals say bordersales not priority 
Associated Press 
The White House says tracking the bulk sale of high-powered rifles from border states gun-shops which legally sell thou­sands of assault weapons that end up in Mexico each year is not an emergency, and has rejected a request from the U.S. agency that monitors weapons sales to do so without public review. 
Instead the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives’ proposed require­ment that firearms dealers near the Mexican border to report multiple purchases of high-pow­ered rifles will undergo a stan­dard, three-month review peri­od, opening it to public com­ment. 
The agency wants to require gun dealers in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas to report the sales of two or more rifles to the same customer within a five-day period, but is not proposing any ban on sales. A similar requirement already exists for handguns. 
“It’s not against the law, and it’s not going to be against the law, for you to buy 40, 50, even 100 of these weapons and put them in the bumper of your car and drive them around or even down to the border,” ATF spokesman Scot Thomasson said. “This would just allow us to put out an investigative lead at the time of the sale.” 
Last month 20 people were federally indicted for allegedly participating in a ring that bought more than 700 guns to be smuggled into Mexico for use by a drug cartel. In that case, sever­al times individuals bought dozens of AK-47s as well as .50 caliber high powered rifles capa­ble of shooting down airplanes, even after rifles they purchased earlier had been seized. 
For example, on Dec. 9, 2009, Douglas, Ariz., police officers found nine AK-47 rifles hidden in a car bumper. The guns were tracked back to Sean Christopher Steward, who had bought them in a batch of 40 AK­47 type rifles at Lone Wolf Trading Co., in Glendale, Ariz., the day before. Just five days after this seizure, Steward bought 43 more AK-47 rifles and pistols, according to court records. Altogether, after the seizure, Steward bought at least 143 more weapons, mostly AK­47s from Lone Wolf before his January 2011 indictment. 
In another case, on Feb. 20, 2010, an Isuzu Rodeo was seen on Tohono O’odham Nation land in Arizona driving toward the border. The driver abandoned the vehicle but was later found by law enforcement. The Isuzu was found with 41 firearms wrapped in plastic, including 37 AK-47 rifles and pistols pur­chased by Uriel Patino between in the past month at Lone Wolf Trading Co. After this seizure, Patino purchased another 159 weapons, mostly AK-47s from Lone Wolf, before being arrested, according to court records. 
Indeed, almost all of the hun­dreds of guns identified in the indictment were sold by the Lone Wolf Trading Co., which was also identified in a Washington Post investigative series last year as the top seller of weapons found at Mexican crime scenes. 

page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 10, 2011 


Recovering Rep. Giffordsabletospeak 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Rep. Gabrielle Giffords is able to speak: She asked for toast at breakfast one recent morning. 
Her ability to say even just a word, a month after being shot in the head, pleased her family, friends and doctors. It may also provide valuable clues about the condition of her injured brain. 
“We’re elated at this,” said her spokesman C.J. Karamargin, who added that she is speaking “more and more.” “We always knew Gabby is a fighter and that she’s not going to let this thing win. And you know, every day is proof of that.” 
Few details have emerged about her recovery since she began intensive rehabilitation at TIRR Memorial Hermann hospi­tal late last month. But doctors not involved in her care said her simple request for toast could indicate higher level cognition. 
The lawmaker was apparently asking for something in an appro­priate context, said Dr. Richard Riggs, chair of physical medicine and rehabilitation at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. 
“It was a desire. It was a want. It was something that would be preferable rather than just a basic need,” Riggs said. “It was encouraging. I was very excited to see it . and the fact that it was an appropriate context gives it more meaning.” 
Brain injury patients who regain speech typically begin to do so about four to six weeks after the incident, Riggs said. 
“At this stage of recovery, it is unlikely that Giffords would be able to say more than one to two words at a time, said Katherine Sullivan, president of the neurolo­gy section of the American Physical Therapy Association. 
In rehabilitation, a patient would progress from saying one word, to possibly a few and final­ly to a full sentence, said Sullivan, also a neuroscientist at the University of Southern California. 
“So it might be one word, ‘toast,’” in this case, Sullivan said. 
The bullet pierced the left hemisphere of Giffords’ brain, Sullivan noted, the side that is associated with language, which includes three crucial elements: hearing, comprehending and responding. 
All three are needed for com­munication and, based on the reports, Giffords can do this, Sullivan said. 
“There’s nothing surprising about the plasticity of the brain especially in a young healthy per­son and that’s the good news,” Sullivan said. “I have seen the most miraculous things so I can’t say I’m surprised. 
“I can say she has a long road left on her recovery because of the very serious injury,” she said. 
Arizona state Sen. Ken Cheuvront, a friend of Giffords who shared a house with her and another lawmaker when they served together in the Legislature, said he was excited to hear that she can speak. 
“It gives all of us a lot of hope that she’ll have a full recovery,” Cheuvront said. 
Six people, including a 9-year­old girl and a federal judge, were killed in the attack outside a gro­cery store where Giffords was meeting with constituents. Thirteen people, including Giffords, were injured. 
The FBI and the Pima County Sheriff’s Office have finished their investigations into the shooting. The 22-year-old man accused in the shooting, Jared Loughner, has pleaded not guilty to federal charges of trying to assassinate Giffords and kill two of her aides. 


NewYorkcongressman resignsafteraccusations 
Associated Press 
CLARENCE, N.Y. — A married New York congressman accused of sending a shirtless photo of himself to a woman abruptly resigned his seat Wednesday, saying he was quitting because he regretted actions that had hurt his family and others. 
The gossip website Gawker reported Wednesday that Rep. Christopher Lee, a two-term Republican, had e-mailed the photo to a woman he met on the Craigslist classified-ads website. 
“I regret the harm that my actions have caused my family, my staff and my constituents,” Lee said in a statement posted on his congressional website. “I deeply and sincerely apologize to them all. I have made pro­found mistakes and I promise to work as hard as I can to seek their forgiveness.” 
Lee said the challenges faced in western New York, where he serves the 26th Congressional District, and across the country are “too serious for me to allow this distraction to continue, so I am announcing that I have resigned my seat in Congress effective immediately.” 
Lee’s resignation comes almost a year after Democrat Eric Massa resigned his seat in western New York’s 29th Congressional District amid an investigation into whether he sexually harassed male staffers. 
A woman described as a 34­year-old Maryland resident and government employee provided Gawker with e-mails she said were an exchange between her and Lee in response to an ad she placed in the “Women Seeking Men” section of Craigslist. 
Gawker reported that Lee identified himself as a divorced lobbyist and sent a photo of himself posing shirtless in front of a mirror. It said the woman eventually broke off the contact with Lee after becoming suspi­cious that he had misrepresent­ed himself. 
A state official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the issue said the congressman hadn’t yet submit­ted his resignation to the New York secretary of state Wednesday evening. 


Thursday, February 10, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Lawmakers debate 


AirlineexecshaltO’Haredeal 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Chicago Mayor Richard Daley met Wednesday with wary airline executives without reaching a deal to ensure that a $15 billion expan­sion of O’Hare International Airport — a project he has championed for a decade — doesn’t grind to a halt when he leaves office this spring. 
After a high-stakes powwow in Washington between Daley and airline executives, which 
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood brokered, the par­ties said there was no agree­ment on what airlines should pay for the ongoing expansion at the major air-travel hub. They did, however, say they intended to talk again at some point. 
Daley’s trip to the nation’s capital to meet with CEOs from American and United — the largest airlines out of O’Hare — underscores how much he is scrambling in his final days in office to boost capacity at O’Hare to guarantee its long­term viability. 
“He has put his heart and soul into airports since the day he was elected, and he sees this expansion as one of his biggest achievements,” said Joseph Schwieterman, a Chicago-based transportation expert. “And he may think it’s unfair to hand all this over, unresolved, to an incoming mayor.” 
But United and American filed a lawsuit last month that could dash Daley’s hopes of resolving the issue before he leaves office in May. The suit wants the city from issuing bonds to finance the expansion, charging that Chicago is violating a lease agreement that gives airlines authority to approve expendi­tures for capital projects. 

In a joint statement following Wednesday’s meeting, the two airlines indicated they and the city remain far apart, so they were “unable to reach an agree­ment that would permit us to suspend our litigation.” 
Unless a deal is forged and the lawsuit within, litigation could drag out for months, even years. 
O’Hare is one of the country’s busiest and most congested air­ports. And city officials argue that finishing a second phase of expansion, which would include a new runway and terminal, will help reduce delays in Chicago and throughout the U.S. air-transport system. 
The first phase of the project culminated with the completion of a new runway and a control tower in 2008. A plane carrying Daley and other VIPs was the first to officially touch down on the stark white concrete as part of runway-opening ceremonies. 


Indiana education bill 

State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Bennett said the goal is to rec­ognize and reward great teachers. 
“This is a huge pillar of com­prehensive education reform,” Bennett said. 
Some teachers and teacher union leaders say they support the idea of annual evaluations but don’t think test scores should play a heavy role in them. 
“Test scores are an easy, quick and — I think — lazy way to evaluate,” said Nancy Papas, a lobbyist for the Indiana State Teachers Association. 
Sen. Scott Schneider, R-Indianapolis, noted that other factors could be included as local districts set up their indi­vidual systems. 
“This bill goes so much far­ther than test scores in evalu­ating teachers,” he said. 
Bennett said it’s important for local districts to come up with their own evaluation sys­tems and their own ways to tie teacher pay to evaluations — but that the state would create “guidelines and guardrails.” The state Board of Education, for example, would establish measures used to determine student academic growth and would set criteria to define the four rating categories. 
Some at Wednesday’s four-hour committee meeting raised practical concerns about how principals in large districts would handle evaluations for so many teachers, and some objected to a provision of the bill that allows teachers to evaluate other teachers under certain circumstances. 
Sen. Tim Skinner, a Democrat from Terre Haute who is a teacher, said a provi­sion in the bill allowing char­ter schools to hire teachers who aren’t certified would be a bad idea. Up to half of charter school staffs could teach with­out being certified, under the proposal. 
Skinner said the provision was another example of Daniels and Bennett going out of their way to relax rules for charter schools — which are public schools that are free of certain state regulations — while tightening rules for tra­ditional public schools. He said teachers feel under attack despite Bennett’s assertion that good teachers have noth­ing to worry about. 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana lawmakers have started work on one of the more controver­sial aspects of Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels’ sweeping edu­cation agenda: a plan to tie teacher pay to student per­formance. 
A Republican-controlled Senate committee began debating the bill Wednesday and plans to vote on it next Wednesday. Lawmakers may tweak some specifics, but the idea is that Indiana teachers would be evaluated each year and ranked into one of four categories: highly effective, effective, improvement neces­sary or ineffective. Local dis­tricts would create their own evaluations systems but would have to include objective measures of student achieve­ment. 
Teachers who fall into the lowest two categories wouldn’t receive any automatic pay raises. Those in the top two categories could get pay rais­es, but the salary increases would be based primarily on student academic performance and not on years of experi­ence. 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, February 10, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Supporting the team 
Notre Dame is home to a top-ten men’s basketball team this year, but judging by the buzz on campus (or lack thereof) you would not guess it. 
For whatever reason, this campus continues to ignore one of 
Andrew Owens 
the top teams in the country, 
Sports
which is in con­tention to win 
Production what is easily Editor the toughest conference. While Notre Dame students typi­cally embrace the Irish football team as their own when they become a student, that same sup­port is not afforded to the basket­ball team. But why is this? It is understandable that the foot­ball program receives the uncondi­tional support of the student body, as this university is a football school. But it is not as if the school is consistently fielding a men’s bas­ketball team of the same caliber as the bottom-feeders of the Big East, such as DePaul, Providence or Seton Hall. Since head coach Mike Brey took over the squad, the Irish have earned a berth in the NCAA tourna­ment six times (this season will be the seventh). Prior to his arrival, Notre Dame had been shut out of the March Madness festivities for more than a decade. Reaching the NCAA tournament seven times in 11 seasons at a school not known for its basketball is not exactly mediocre, especially in the Big East. But as Brey and the Irish continue to win, students continue to feel a deeper allegiance to the teams they grew up rooting for — Michigan State, UCLA, Louisville — and the list goes on and on. It gets old to turn around and see that half the student section is empty, as was the case on Sunday against Rutgers. There is no such thing as a bad Big East home game. And, oh by the way, the team is ranked No. 7 in the nation. While this article was written before Wednesday’s game against No. 15 Louisville, I suspect the stu­dent section will be full now that an elite opponent will show up at Purcell Pavilion. Students will work their way out of the woodwork after realizing that it is a top-25 matchup between teams contending for a Big East championship. Some will have to pick up their ticket booklets that have gathered dust over the past three months. So, Notre Dame, continue to sup­port your team back home over the next six weeks. I’m sure UCLA is much more exciting in the vaunted Pac 10. But you will only have your­self to blame when this season is over and the accomplishments of this team are even more evident. The Irish could win the Big East, have the conference’s player of the year, and earn one of the top seeds in the NCAA tournament, and much of the campus still won’t be paying attention. But I bet you can tell me how many days until football spring practice begins. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


The myth of Notre Dame’s bubble 
Earlier this year, The Observer desig­nated the blog “Things Notre Dame Students Like” as “the No. 1 must-visit website for ND students.” By now, most of us have probably read or are famil­iar with this blog, a collection of 
Ryan Williams 
various traits and qualities that the author thinks freethoughts apply particularly well to Notre Dame students. This list covers a wide variety of topics, with everything from “Making Religion a Competition” to “Only Riding with One Cab Driver” included as things that Notre Dame students really like. 
I’d like to propose my own addition to this list of things Notre Dame stu­dents like, and that is talking about “the Notre Dame bubble.” In case you aren’t familiar with this phrase, the Notre Dame bubble is the idea that everyone here has enjoyed a highly privileged upbringing and continues to lead a sheltered existence here on campus away from the harsh realities of the outside world. It is a stereotype that assumes that all Notre Dame stu­dents act as a monolithic whole, think­ing the same thoughts, holding the same beliefs and opinions and possess­ing similar habits and interests. Now granted, there are a few prominent examples of groupthink on our cam­pus, such as the increasing number of guys who inexplicable choose to wear Timberland work boots as everyday shoes, or the affinity for the cold-weather beating combination of UGG boots and a knee-length black North Face coat shared by so many girls. Encouraged by these examples as well Mr. Kessler’s blog, proponents of “the bubble theory” seek to define and pub­licize their view of what the quintes-


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
sential Notre Dame student should be, and in so doing ignore many of the qualities that really make Notre Dame great. 
Here’s some news for everyone in danger of buying into this outlook on life at Notre Dame: The whole idea of “the Notre Dame bubble” is bull. It doesn’t exist, and in reality this myth only serves to perpetuate some very unfortunate stereotypes about Notre Dame students. If I were a prospective student reading Mr. Kessler’s blog, I would be inclined to believe that Notre Dame is a school made up solely of rich white kids who know and care lit­tle about life beyond their campus, that all Notre Dame students are devout, socially conservative Catholics who attend mass every week and shudder at the thought of disobeying Church teachings, and that it is impossible to be friends with members of the oppo­site sex because “gender relations” (whatever that even means) are so strained. 
The problem with these stereotypes is that they completely ignore the great diversity of thought, ideas and experi­ences that we have here at Notre Dame. Obviously, not everyone here is a rich white kid, because 80-percent of the student body is on some form of financial aid and 25 percent are non­white. Nor are we as ignorant of the outside world as some would have you believe, as evidenced by the 57-percent of Notre Dame students who partici­pate in study abroad programs or the over 65-percent who regularly take part in service projects, many in disad­vantaged locations throughout the local South Bend community. Just because our university is unfriendly to the LGBTQ community does not mean that we students are not supportive, and though the vast majority of the student-body claims to be Christian, there are still plenty of us who have lit­tle use for religion and couldn’t care less about Church teachings. As far as gender relations go, single-sex dorms and parietals only create obstacles if you let them, and most students here would say they have little problem forming solid platonic friendships with members of the opposite sex. Clearly, the conventional wisdom perpetuated about Notre Dame students is more often than not quite wrong. 
Now, I do not intend this column to be an attack on Bob Kessler’s blog. I think on the whole most of us would agree that it is very entertaining and definitely points out some of the more egregious traits of Notre Dame stu­dents with wit and intelligence. Where I think the danger lies is in accepting all those stereotypes that he highlights as universally true and failing to acknowledge that they are not repre­sentative of the Notre Dame student body at large. 
Each individual student at this uni­versity brings with them an immense wealth of talents, ideas and a unique outlook on life. Together we create an incredibly rich and diverse community, one that has the potential to help us all become wiser and more compassion­ate. This unique combination of experi­ences, perspectives and opinions is one of the qualities that truly makes Notre Dame an extraordinary and special university. It would be a shame to assume we are all the same, when in fact it is our differences that make us so lucky to call Notre Dame home. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
What was your favorite Super Bowl commercial? Careerbuilder: Chimps driving Volkswagen: Young Vader Chrysler: Eminem/Detroit Bridgestone: Beaver/Karma Audi A8: Luxury prison break Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“To have doubted one's own first principles is the mark of acivilized man.” 
Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. 
U.S. jurist 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 10, 2011 page 9 
Love is all you need 
Since 496 A.D. the Church has celebrated St. Valentine’s feast day on Feb. 14th. For many centuries, of course, the day simply recognized the person of Valentine — a priest imprisoned and subsequently mar­tyred for his faith in Jesus Christ around 
Kate Barrett 
269 A.D., a time when Christianity was still considered Faithpoint a crime against the Roman Empire. Valentine aided his fellow Christians in whatever ways he could, including by mar­rying young Christian couples, until he got caught. The Emperor Claudius actually became fond of his prisoner Valentine, until Valentine decided to have a go at convert­ing Claudius to the faith. Enraged, Claudius condemned him to death. 
When I hear stories of martyrs, I imagine Jesus himself observing those deaths with heartfelt pain and love. St. Valentine had this in common with Christ himself: Knowing he was God’s beloved, he offered his life to share that love. Perhaps Valentine had heard and taken to heart a verse from John’s gospel: “Just as I have loved you, you also should love one anoth­er” (John 13:14). 
We can be attracted by what we hear every day about love when we check our favorite websites, listen to music or watch TV. The images, expectations and many conflicting messages come at us fast and furious. When we want to think more seri­ously about the topic, however, we ought to turn to the wisdom of Jesus, Love in human form. Today’s version of the feast day of St. Valentine, for many, has become simply another example of our Christian faith crashing headlong into cultural demands that actually conflict with the best of what we know love to be. 

Jesus said many things about love, prob­ably many more than are even recorded in the gospels. One thing he never promised about love: That it’s easy. He certainly did-n’t recommend chocolate, flowers, a fancy restaurant or a quick hook-up just to ensure that you aren’t “alone” on Valentine’s Day. No, Jesus teaches us that love packs a wallop; that love will ask our lives of us and will give us life to the fullest. “Love your enemies,” he said, without any sugar-coating. “Do good to those who hate you” (Luke 6:27). 
Jesus spoke both about how we are to love as well as about how we are loved. And we would do well to listen, on Valentine’s Day and every day, for don’t we make some of our dumbest mistakes in love when we forget that we are loved? Don’t we allow ourselves to settle for some cheap substitute for love precisely when we lose sight of the fact that we are absolutely, unconditionally, at each and every moment, God’s beloved? “Even the hairs on your head are all counted,” Jesus told the people who followed him in the days of his public ministry (Luke 12:7). 
We ought to head into Valentine’s Day remembering that our commercial, secular society promotes pleasure, usually through exercising our purchasing power. Our faith, lived honestly and whole-heartedly, cannot always promise pleasure but will lead us through love to genuine happiness. Consider the beautiful and well-known words of St. Paul, who — once he knew Christ’s love — wrote of love as nothing other than the active stance of our lives toward others: “Love is patient; love is kind; love is not envious or boastful or arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice in wrongdoing, but rejoices in the truth. It bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things” (1 Cor. 13:4-7). 
Now, we can be serious about our faith and still feel the allure of the commerce connected to this holiday — who can resist a heart-shaped Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup, wrapped with its fellow hearts in a pack of six and festooned with a large come-hither sign announcing its deeply discounted, buy-me-now Valentine’s Day price? And, full disclosure, I bought some heart-shaped Peeps (how great is it that Peeps are now available for every holiday?!) and three dif­ferent kinds of chocolates for my children and my husband. But those treats — and treats they are — cannot possibly express the truth of my love for them, or reflect the daily challenges and joys of trying to lay down our lives for one another as followers of Jesus Christ. 
Consider St. Valentine’s feast day an opportunity to celebrate the loves of our lives, and perhaps too a chance to “re­align” our understanding of love, so that it more closely conforms to what our Lord Jesus teaches us about love. As St. John wrote, “Beloved, since God loves us so much, we also ought to love one another” (1 John 4:11). The daily offering of our­selves to our friends and our families; to strangers and yes, to our enemies, is truly worth celebrating. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at Katharine.S.Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Let’s talk about sex 
In response to the Feb. 9 Scene Commentary “Sex on TV,” I concur with Scene Writer Stephanie DePrez: Yes, let’s talk about sex. It seems sex has become the common currency of not only the 30-minute sitcom but also our daily interactions. That which is the greatest mystery has been relegated to purely pleasurable objectification. But, is there anything really mysterious or sacred about sex? 
A common misconception regarding the Catholic Church imagines that the stern and sober hierarchy denounces sex. And, moreover, the Church merits no place in my bed­room. Au contraire, however, for the Church embraces and exalts sex as the most sacred mystery between man and woman. In Theology of the Body, Pope John Paul II explains that man is to woman and woman is to man the most profound mystery. After all, it’s the mysteriousness of our beloved that peppers romance with excitement. It makes our heart flutter at the sight of a new crush. The mystery, though, reaches even further into the depths of our humanity: Into sex. Mystery — deriving from the Latin mysterium or sacramentum — means sacrament. Sound a bit “churchey?” It is. Anyone with an elementary under­standing of the Catechism knows the definition of sacra­ment: “an outward sign conveying an inner reality.” 
So what’s the sacramentality — the mystery of sex? By sex, human beings manifest and make real the image of God. The ultimate unity — physical, emotional and spiritu­al — of man and woman in sex reflects and makes real love of the Trinity: Father, Son and Holy Spirit. Like it or not, the Church by the Trinity is present in the bedroom. The mystery of sex continues, making man and woman more truly themselves as they become co-creators in the image of God. For this reason, the Church rejects contra­ception. When couples use contraception, they deny the mystery of sex and use it for their own ends — they objec­tify sex and objectify one another. Casual sex is as logical as a casual mystery — it’s illogical. So being inclined to mystery, I’ll keep the chastity belt and keep the crucifix above the forthcoming marriage bed. 
Beth Simpson 
senior 
Howard Hall 
Feb. 9 




Day of woman 
Let me begin by saying that I think the Siegfried Day of Man, while perhaps indeed a little “phallocen­tric” (“Practical Men,” Feb. 8), is a good thing. Raising money for a good cause is something that everyone can get behind (women included, but again, that’s beside the point). Mr. Mullen’s letter (“Be a Man,” Feb. 9), though, encourages enforcement of gender roles without presuming to do any legitimate good in the world. 
First, regarding the “true meaning” of a man. In his letter, Mr. Mullen states that the average man cries twice a month and that he finds such behavior “nauseating and embarrassing.” This implication that the free expression of emotion is a negative quality is what’s truly nauseating. In Mr. Mullen’s ideal world, men would suppress their emotions, pushing them down and letting them build until they find more masculine outlets for their feelings, like golfing or murder. In my opinion, being in touch with one’s emotional state is a trait to be admired (though perhaps my views are tainted by the relative lack of testosterone in my bloodstream). 
Second, regarding Mr. Mullen’s assertion that women don’t like “feminine, sensitive” guys. This is an absurd case of stereotyping and isn’t backed up by legitimate evidence. Women like men of all shapes, sizes and sensitivities. Women also some­times like women, who happen to occasionally be feminine. 
Finally, regarding the idea that “the absence of true manhood is a serious problem in our society.” This is the most dangerous statement Mr. Mullen makes, because it places masculinity on a pedestal above femininity and promotes it as a virtue in itself. Men and women have elements of both masculinity and femininity, and if one is going to hold up one as an ideal, one must be prepared to idealize the other as well. To do anything less would be blatantly sexist. 
I wonder what would happen if Farley held a “Day of Woman,” raising money while participating in stereotypically feminine activities. Would this event be viewed in the same light by which Mr. Mullen sees the “Day of Man?” 
Charlie O'Leary 
sophomore Knott Hall Feb. 9 




Concerning giraffes 
I write in response to The Observer’s Question of the Day regarding the placement of a giraffe in a refrigerator. The responses, while funny, were nec­essarily limited to trite one-liners, and do not, in my opinion, fully capture the spirit of such an undertak­ing at Notre Dame. Here’s how it would really work: 
First, putting a giraffe in a refrigerator is most definitely an event. Which means it’s going to need SAO approval. They will have to clear it with the Office of Risk Management. The general counsel will then produce a custom consent waiver which the giraffe must sign before participating. Of course, giraffes are not legally empowered to consent to anything, so you’d have to get your AR who is a law student to file a motion with the US District Court for the Northern District of Indiana requesting power of attorney. Once the waiver has been signed, a t-shirt committee will be formed to design a com­memorative jersey for this momentous occasion. The shirt will naturally require separate SAO approval. These shirts will then be sold from a table in South Dining Hall to benefit some worthy charity. As the giraffe presumably hails from Africa, it would be best if the charity was involved in building schools in Uganda or something. If that falls through, there’s always the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
As for the refrigerator, university policy probably requires an Energy Star-certified model, even though it will never actually be used for refrigera­tion. In fact, it will need to be unplugged and have the refrigerant drained, which will likely require some sort of EPA disposal permit. At this juncture, the Philosophy Department and the College of Science will jointly convene a panel discussion of distinguished faculty to debate whether or not the appliance, sans refrigerant, is still, ontologically, a refrigerator. 
By the time all the pieces are in place, the giraffe, which was already at an advanced age when we obtained it from the Potawatomi Zoo, will likely have died. Fr. Jenkins will preside over the memori­al service in the Basilica. Finally, the giraffe, according to its final wishes as conveyed by University Spokesman Dennis Brown, will be cre­mated and the urn deposited in the refrigerator. The entire assembly will then be interred in a LEED Gold-rated mausoleum in the Cedar Grove ceme­tery, donated by the (pick one: Eck/Jordan/DeBartolo/Pasquerilla) family. I guess there’s only question left: How do we get the giraffe into the crematorium? 
Matthew Balkey 
Dillon Hall Feb. 9 

The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Thursday, February 10, 2011 
Keenan Revue Stepan Center7:30-9:30 p.m.Tickets available at Gate 3 in the Joyce Center, student ID required The Keenan boys are ready to make us laugh and have fun with their hilarious skits and perform­ances starting Thursday. Go with a group of friends and enjoy this fantastic once-a-year event. If y ou mis s i t T h u r s da y, c a t ch encores on Friday and Saturday.  “The Notebook” DeBartolo Hall 8-10 p.m.Two for $1 Begin your Valentine’s week­end by watching one of the most romantic love stories of all time. Go with friends or a loved one, but be sure not to miss it.  Stoplight PartyLegends NightclubMidnightFree for students, ID required Whether you are taken, in a complicated relationship or sin­gl e and re ad y to m ingl e, t his Legends party promises to be a good time. Dress in red, yellow or green according to your relation­ship status (taken, it’s complicat­ed and single, respectively) and dance the night away.  “Chicago”Washington Hall7:30 p.m.$8, $6 for students, available at LaFortune Box Office The Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo.), after weeks of preparation, is ready to per­form what pro mise s t o b e a n amazing interpretation of the a w a r d w i n n i n g m u sic a l “Chicago.” This is a great way to end a weekend full of fun activi­ties.  

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Thursday, February 10, 2011 page 11 



The 53rd annual Grammy Awards are set to take place Sunday at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, where they have been held every year since 2004. As always, the awards arrive accompanied by a wave of mixed reactions from the music community. The peren-
Chris Collum
nial questions of “are the Grammys still relevant?” and 
Scene Writer 
“why was so-and-so nominat­ed?” are just as prevalent this year as in previous ones. 
When surveying this year’s nominations, it is apparent that Eminem could be considered the leader in this year’s edition. He has been nominated for a total of 10 awards, including Album of the Year, Song of the Year and Record of the Year. 
Other artists receiving 


nominations include Lady 
As far as rap goes, Gaga, Bruno Mars, Jay-Z Kanye West should get and Lady Antebellum. With Best Rap Solo perform-the exception of Bruno ance with “Power,” while Mars, a relative newcomer Eminem will get Best Rap to the awards, these artists comprise Album with “Recovery.” some of the Grammy’s favorites in recent Eminem and Rihanna’s years. (Note: To avoid confusion from this point “Love the Way You Lie” on, take note that the eligibility period for this and Jay-Z and Alicia Keys’ year’s awards is Sept. 1, 2009 to Sept. 30, “Empire State of Mind” are certainly 2010, not just all of 2010.) the frontrunners in both the Best 
In the Album of the Year category, for exam-Rap/Song Collaboration and Best Rap ple, Lady Antebellum, Gaga and Eminem join Song categories. 
Katy Perry and surprise nominee Arcade Fire. The indie rock group got a nod for their expansive concept album “The Suburbs.” Most of the nominees besides Arcade Fire are neither too surprising nor too adventurous, so it’s nice to see a little bit of variety. 
Eminem seems to be a favorite in this category, if only because awards shows love a comeback story. That’s understandable, but what they see in “Recovery” is more difficult to understand. Out of the artists nominated in this catego­ry, Arcade Fire probably deserve the title the most — but I wouldn’t bet on them winning. 
The Song of the Year category features two of the same artists as Album of the Year — Eminem (and Rihanna), “Love the Way You Lie” and Lady Antebellum, “Need You Now” — as well as Cee Lo Green’s blissfully profane “Forget You,” and nods to country crooner Miranda Lambert and folk artist Ray LaMontagne. 
Cee Lo certainly deserves this award, but that again seems like a long shot. Look for either Eminem or Lady Antebellum to come out on top in the Song of the Year category. 
All three of those songs — “Forget You,” “Love the Way You Lie” and “Need You Now” — are also nomi­nated for Record of the Year, so one might think that, for example if Eminem wins song of the year, then Lady Antebellum will win Record of the Year. 
However, the Record of the Year category also includes the now-famous Big Apple anthem “Empire State of Mind” by Jay-Z and Alicia Keys. This record definitely deserves to win this category and seems to have a pretty fair chance of taking home the award as well. 
Elsewhere in the nominations, look for Justin Bieber to edge out Drake for Best New Artist (a somewhat puz­zling term when applied to those two artists), Lady Gaga’s “Bad Romance” to win Best Female Pop Vocal Performance and Michael Jackson to posthumously win Best Male Pop Vocal Performance with “This Is It.” Lady Gaga also seems set to win Best Pop Vocal Album for “The Fame Monster.” 
On the rock side of the spectrum, “Tighten Up” by The Black Keys seems to be a shoo-in for Best Rock Song, while Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers will prob­ably win Best Rock Album with “Mojo.” Remember, if there are two things the Grammy committee loves, it’s 
comebacks and classic rockers. 
Arcade Fire will likely win Alternative Album of the Year 
amid a surprisingly strong set of nomi­nees, which is a 
shame because Vampire Weekend cer­tainly deserves the 
award for “Contra.” 
Regardless of who wins what, the awards ceremony promises to be extremely entertaining as always. Live perform­ers include Katy Perry, Lady Gaga, Eminem, Arcade Fire, B.o.B, 
Barbara Streisand — who will receive this year’s “MusiCares Person of the Year” award — Muse, Bruno Mars and a collabo­rative performance by Rihanna and Drake. 
Award presenters include Jamie Foxx, Neal Patrick Harris, John Mayer, Miley Cyrus, LL Cool J, Seth Rogen and Selena Gomez. 
As always, there are a few surprise nominees at this year’s Grammys, and there will certainly be a few surprise wins as well. Many question the relevance of the awards ceremony — but it would be fair to 

counter that the ceremony has never been that rele­vant. 
Pop quiz time: Which album won the Album of the Year award in 1992? “Unforgettable … With Love,” a collection of Nat King Cole covers by his daughter Natalie Cole — an interesting album, but nothing groundbreaking — or Nirvana’s “Nevermind?” Here’s a hint: It wasn’t Nirvana. 
Whether the Grammy Awards are relevant or not, whether they actually “matter” or not, they are at least very entertaining. Tune into CBS Sunday at 8 p.m. and join America in celebrating (some of) the best music released recently. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 10, 2011 
GOLF 

U.S. serviceman plays golf with Woods in Dubai 
Associated Press 
When the call came to the home of Lt. Col. Michael Rowells, his wife Molly assumed it was a joke. Why else would someone insist her husband had won a chance to play a round of golf with Tiger Woods? 
On Wednesday, the American serviceman teed up alongside the 14-time major winner at the Dubai Desert Classic pro-am. The 47-year-old Mi ssissippi 
However, Rowells brought his own caddie. Huey Hughes of Charleston, S.C., is a fellow serviceman on their Bagram Air Field military base. He said he’d been working 14-hour days for eight months. 
“Here we are fighting these wars and deployed and all of a sudden he wins this tournament and you are hand-selected to be caddy with a guy,” he said. “To come out and do this is an 
opportunity of 
a lifetime.” 
native had flown Rowells had-
to Dubai from “The experience was 
n’t played in Afghanistan, so far beyond what my four months, where he is and it showed
score would have been
deployed with when he hit
regardless of how
the 401st Army several balls Field Support many balls I put into into the water. Brigade. the water.” He shanked 
“It’s amazing others from the to watch how deep rough 
these guys hit Lt. Col Michael Rowells despite his 9 the ball,” said handicap. It the self-probably didn’t 
described golf help that one 
fanatic. “It makes me want to of the world’s greatest golfers go back and practice, but I have was looking on along with a to wait until October.” gallery of several dozen.
Rowells beat out 16,000 other “I was nervous, absolutely, for amateur golfers in a draw not playing for so long and before the tournament at the everything else,” said Rowells, 
Emirates Golf Club. In the mid-wearing an Army golf hat over dle of his first combat tour in his crew cut. Afghanistan, where his unit is “It’s not so much intimidating charged with logistics, the as much as you see someone hit 
father of four scrambled to get the ball so pure, so often, and a passport for his trip to Dubai. you think, ‘Can I get anywhere He used a set of clubs borrowed near that?’” he said. Still, from the golf course. Rowells sank several par putts that elicited praise from Woods, and some approach shots earned a “great shot” from the third-ranked golfer. He also exhibited a healthy sense of humor throughout, at one point noting how enjoyable it was to be playing in the rough since there is no grass in Afghanistan. 
“I came in wanting to play decent and I really didn’t,” Rowells said. “But it didn’t mat­ter. The experience was so far beyond what my score would have been. The time with Tiger, and the time here at Emirates Golf Club, has just been tremen­dous regardless of how many balls I put in the water.” 
Rowells met Woods on the putting green before they start­ed and had a chance to chat throughout the day. Much of their conversation, Rowells said, revolved around his time in the military, including post­ings around the United States and helping with the recovery effort after the earthquake in Haiti. 
Woods’ father Earl did two tours during the Vietnam War as a member of the U.S. Army Special Forces, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel. He named his son after a South Vietnamese army colleague whom he fought alongside. 
“He understands the services, and that is always a plus,” Rowells said. “A lot of people don’t quite understand what we do. I think he has decent respect for the military and that is always nice. We spoke a little about his dad, some of the places he had been, like Fort Bragg, where I’ll be ending up in the next year-and-a-half or so.” 
As he walked off the 18th green, Woods said he had “a great time today” playing with someone whose career path was reminiscent of his dad. 
“He understands, obviously, what my dad went through,” Woods said. “He was working with a reserve unit of (special forces) guys in the early days. We have a little bit of a connec­tion, no doubt.” 


For his part, Rowells called Woods a “class act.” He said nothing — not even the golfer’s personal troubles that made headlines last year — would change his opinion about a man who remains his golf idol along with Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer and Phil Mickelson. 
“I played with a Tiger that struck the ball very well, was a complete gentleman, a class act, easy going and put me at ease,” he said. “One of the larg­er-than-life figures was very down to earth and very accom­modating to somebody that came in to do this.” 

NHL 





Penguins need scoring relief without stars 
Associated Press  they have just one goal com­bined in consecutive losses. And  man Fedor Tyutin from behind in a 4-1 loss. Tyutin was pum­ $87,804.88 in salary, was also suspended for two games on  Malkin, they likely won’t con­tend with Philadelphia or  
Sidney Crosby’s return date  they’re not catching any breaks  meled face first into the boards.  Nov. 28, 2009. He is eligible to  Tampa Bay for the top spot in  
from  a  concussion  is  still  with the schedule, either.  He  quickly  returned  to  his  return Feb. 20 at Chicago.  the Eastern Conference. Nor  
unknown. Evgeni Malkin is  The  Penguins  are  home  skates.  “The player looks him right in  will they be serious threats to  
headed toward surgery and  Thursday to play Los Angeles.  Cooke was whistled for a five- the eye, knows he’s coming and  win their second Stanley Cup in  
won’t play again until next sea- Then they head into a rugged  minute major penalty for charg­ makes sure he keeps his num­ three seasons.  
son. Chris Kunitz is day to day,  s t r e t c h ,  ing,  and  issued  ber  turned  toward  him,”  After all, Crosby, Malkin and  
and Mike Comrie, Mark Letestu and Arron Asham are all side­lined with various injuries.  playing nine of 11 games on the road.  “The player looks him right in the eye, knows  another five min­utes for fighting Blue Jackets for- Penguins coach Dan Bylsma said after the loss. “But Matt does hit him there and send  Kunitz have combined for 65 goals. No Penguin in the lineup Tuesday night had more than  
May as well add one more Pittsburgh Penguin to the out-of-action bunch. At least the Penguins know  T h e y ’ l l face the Kings — as well as play  he’s coming and makes sure he keeps his number turned toward  ward Derick Brassard after the hit. “Cooke delivered  him into the boards.” Tyutin saw Cooke rushing him and remained in the game after the punishing play.  10. In fact, Crosby, Comrie, Malkin, Asham and Letestu had combined for 39 percent of Pittsburgh’s goals entering  
for sure when forward Matt Cooke will return to the lineup.  road games at the  him.”  a forceful hit from behind on an unsus- So, while Cooke sits out — Tuesday. and others continue their road The Penguins, with the dead- 
He’ll be back once he’s done serving a four-game suspension,  I s l a n d e r s , R a n g e r s  Dan Bylsma  pecting opponent,” league disciplinari­ back to action — the Penguins, in second place in the Atlantic  line approaching, can look for center help via a trade, of  
brought down by the NHL on  a  n  d  Penguins coach  an Colin Campbell  Division behind Philadelphia,  course. The most marketable  
Wednesday.  Colorado  —  said. “Also, he is  must journey  on.  Barring  a  out there appears to be New  
Indeed, it is a tough time for  w i t h o u t  considered a repeat  major collapse, the Penguins  Jersey’s Jason Arnott, who has  
the short-handed Penguins.  Cooke. The league moved swift- offender under the league’s  aren’t in serious danger of  13 goals and 11 assists. But  
How much do they miss their  ly  on  him,  a day after he hit  supplemental discipline rules.”  missing the playoffs, of course.  there figures to be quite a line  
injured stars? Well, consider  Columbus Blue Jackets defense- Cooke,  who  will  forfeit  But  without  Crosby  and  for his services.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If­you­or­someone­you­care­about Invention,­my­dear­friends,­is­93% “He­was­always­a­rather­stupidly "See,­I'm­dishonest.­And­a­dishon­
has­been­sexually­assaulted,­we perspiration,­6%­electricity,­4% optimistic­man.­I­mean,­I’m­afraid­it est­man­you­can­always­trust­to­beFOR RENT NOTICES can­help.­evaporation,­and­2%­butterscotch came­as­a­great­shock­to­him­when dishonest.­Honestly.­It's­the­honest 
ripple.­­­­­---Willy­Wonka he­died.”­­­­­­­­­­---­Clue ones­you­need­to­watch­out­for, GRADUATION/SPECIAL­EVENT UNPLANNED­PREGNANCY?­For­more­information,­visit­Notre because­you­never­know­when RENTAL:­Dames­website:­http://csap.nd.edu ———————————————­——————————————— they're­going­to­do­something 
Don't­go­it­alone.­Notre­Dame­has incredibly...­stupid."­House­for­rent­for many­resources­in­place­to­assist ——————————————— “I­shall­call­him­Squishy.­And­he "Hey­I­got­an­idea!­I­could­stay­with ---Pirates­of­the­Carribean graduation/JPW/weddings,football, you. shall­be­mine.­And­he­shall­be­MY­you!­We­could­stay­up­late,­swap etc.­Perfect­location-right­next­to If­you­or­someone­you­love­needs “A­person­should­not­believe­in­an Squishy.”­---Finding­Nemo manly­stories,­and­in­the­morning, ——————————————— the­new­Eddy­Street­Commons-confidential­support­or­assistance, "-ism,"­he­should­believe­in­himself. I'm­making­waffles!"­­­---­Shrek Mugatu­is­so­hot­right­now­he­could walk­to­everything-safe­family­ori-please­call­Sr.­Sue­Dunn­at­1-7819. I­quote­John­Lennon,­"I­don't ——————————————— take­a­crap,­wrap­it­in­tinfoil,­put­a ented­street.­For­more­information,­visit­ND's believe­in­Beatles,­I­just­believe­in ——————————————— couple­fish­hooks­on­it­and­sell­it­to Email­nd-house@sbcglobal.net­for website­at:­http://pregnancysup-me."”­­­---Ferris­Bueller “Demented­and­sad,­but­social.”­“Toto,­I've­got­a­feeling­we're­not­in Queen­Elizabeth­as­earrings.­additional­info­and­photos port@nd.edu ---­The­Breakfast­Club Kansas­anymore.”­---Wizard­of­Oz ---Zoolander ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————­­
Thursday, February 10, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 



Georgetown topples Syracuse at Carrier Dome 
Temple holds on in scare against Fordham; Ohio downs Toledo to extend Rockets’ losing streak to six games 
Georgetown tied the game at the arc and was outrebounded 
Associated Press 

55 on a wide-open 3-pointer 34-28. Georgetown finished 24 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Austin from the right wing by Hollis of 53 (45.3 percent) and had 20 
Freeman had 14 points to lead Thompson with 3:47 left. assists 
four Georgetown players in Freeman followed with a fast The key to the Hoyas’ winning 
double figures, and the 11th-break layup after a Syracuse streak has been the perimeter 
ranked Hoyas rallied late to turnover. play of Freeman, Chris Wright, 
beat No. 12 Syracuse 64-56 on Kris Joseph and Brandon Jason Clark and Thompson. 
Wednesday night. Triche missed from 3-point Entering the game, they had Georgetown (19-5, 8-4 Big range for the Orange, and combined for 149 3-pointers 
East) extended its winning Jason Clark sneaked inside and were shooting 40.3 percent 
streak to seven games and gave twice in a row for layups to give from beyond the arc. 
coach John Thompson III his Georgetown a 61-55 lead with The Hoyas were 10-0 when 
first win in the Carrier Dome in 2:05 left and Syracuse couldn’t they hit at least eight 3s and 
six tries. It was the third rally. The Orange’s last basket 15-0 when they shot at least 33 
straight home loss for Syracuse was a layup by C.J. Fair with percent from long range. On 
(20-5, 7-5), only the third time 6:36 left. this night, they kept that streak 
that’s happened in coach Jim Syracuse shot 39.6 percent alive, hitting 9 of 21 (42.9 per­
Boeheim’s 35 years. and was 4 of 16 from beyond cent) as Thompson led the way with a 3 for 3 performance and 11 points. Clark hit two and fin­ished with 12 points. Julian Vaughn also had 12 points and Wright had six points and nine assists. Joseph scored 14 points, Fair had 12, and Brandon Triche 11 as the Orange struggled from the field, shooting 39.6 percent. Orange responded with a 13-2 to tell.” Rick Jackson got in foul trouble run. Chris Gaston scored 27 points in the second half and had a A three-point play by Markel for Fordham (6-16, 0-10), season-low four points. Starks with 2:11 left in the half which has dropped 12 straight Georgetown entered the game and a 3 from the left corner by games and has yet to win in ranked second in the nation in Thompson knotted the score at 2011. shooting, hitting 50.5 percent, 29 before Dion Waiters made a The Rams, who had only and had used the 3-pointer as a runner at the buzzer to give seven players available because dagger all season. The Hoyas Syracuse a two-point lead at of injuries, trailed by as much were on the mark in the first the break. as 25 in the first half before half. Five players hit from Syracuse extended the lead to pulling within three as Temple beyond the arc as the Hoyas 37-31 on a steal and layup by missed 18 of its first 20 shots drained 6 of 12 against the Waiters, but seconds after from the field after halftime. Syracuse zone but struggled Scoop Jardine was knocked to Fordham trailed 53-50 after inside, making just 5 of 15 the floor on a drive
, Jackson, Frazier hit a 3-pointer with shots. Syracuse’s rock all season, was 13:17 to play. The teams traded But after a 3 from the top of called for his fourth foul with a few empty possessions before the key by Wright gave 14:40 left as the game became Randall scored on an alley-oop Georgetown a 16-10 lead mid-a bruising affair in the paint. layup to kick off a 6-0 Temple way through the first half, the With Jackson on the bench, run. Freeman drained a 3 from the It was 62-57 after Alberto right corner to give Georgetown Estwick made a 3 for Fordham, a 44-40 lead, but Fair respond-but Randall answered with one ed with a pair of baskets off at the other end for Temple. pretty passes from Jardine. Less than a minute later, Juan Fair’s underhand scoop car-Fernandez, who had been on omed high off the glass and in the bench with four fouls, at 12:20 and less than a minute returned to the game and later he converted a reverse knocked down a 3 that made it layup to tie it at 44. a 69-57 game. Joseph’s three-point play “It’s a long season, and we’ve broke the tie at 10:45 and when played now 23 games. I don’t Vaughn was called for his know that we’ve been able to fourth foul, a pair of free be complacent in any game,” throws by Jardine put the Dunphy said. “There was a lot Orange up 51-47 at 9:00. of things they did, I thought, The Orange didn’t wilt with that were terrific, but there was three freshmen on the floor, but a lot of things we did in the when Jackson returned with stretch that were really good in 

5:37 left, the Hoyas ran away. the first half.” 
Wright fed Nate Lubick with a 

pretty pass through the lane for Ohio 71, Toledo 58 
a dunk to pull the Hoyas to 53-Tommy Freeman scored 21 
52 at 4:58 and Thompson’s 3 points to lead Ohio to a win 
started a decisive 9-0 run. over Toledo on Wednesday 
night, extending the Rockets' Temple 77, Fordham 66 losing streak to six games.The 
Ramon Moore scored 22 Bobcats (12-12, 5-5 Mid­points to lead No. 24 Temple to American Conference) led 36­its fifth straight win over 23 at halftime after shooting 14 Fordham on Wednesday night. of 29 from the floor (48.3 per-
Scootie Randall and Micheal cent), including 7 of 16 from 3­Eric each added 12 points for point range (43.8 the Owls (18-2, 8-2 Atlantic 10), percent).Freeman finished with who forced 17 turnovers and a career-high seven 3-pointers had a 49-36 rebounding edge. on 14 attempts from beyond the 
Temple now sits ½ game arc. Ivo Baltic added 16 points 
behind Xavier and Duquesne and DeVaughn Washington 
for first place in the conference. chipped in 14. Ohio forced 18 
Lavoy Allen had a season-turnovers, leading to 22 high 14 rebounds, seven points points.The Rockets (4-20, 1-9) and four assists for Temple shot 50 percent from the field before leaving the game late in (12 of 24) in the second half, the second half with an appar-but never got within 12 points ent left ankle injury. and trailed by as many as 24, 
“We’ll see,” said Temple 68-44, with 6:12 coach Fran Dunphy. remaining.Malcolm Griffin “Everything will be determined scored 16 points, Jay Shunnar probably tomorrow when he added 13 and Reese Holliday gets up. They’ll put him in a and Justin Anyijong scored 11 cast tonight and see how he’ll each for Toledo, which has lost react. I don’t know. It’s too soon 11 of its last 12. 




page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 10, 2011 
MLB 




Texas raises ticket prices, adds boxes 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — The AL champion Texas Rangers have raised ticket prices for about two-thirds of their seats for 52 non -premier home games, though many of the increases are for $2 or less per seat. 
Coming off their first World Series, the Rangers increased from 19 to 29 the number of home dates considered pre­mier games with higher prices. But about 30,000 seats (69 percent) at Rangers Ballpark for those games will cost less than last season. 
Individual ticket prices were announced Wednesday. The biggest increases are for lower box and club seats. 
Advance sales on non-pre­mier games are $62 (from $50) for lower box and $58 (from $45) for club seats. For premier games, the increases are from $60 to $69 for lower box seats and $55 to $65 for club seats. 
Seats with all-you-can-eat food are up from $34 to $39 for non-premier games; and from $39 to $45 for premier games. 
Premier games include most Friday and Saturday home games during the season, July 4 against Baltimore and a four-game midweek series against Boston in August. 
The Rangers lowered prices on upper box and bleacher seats for all games, while upper reserved seats remained $15 for non-pre­mier games and decreased from $20 to $17 for premier games. Grandstand reserved seats increased $1 to $7 for non -premier games, but dropped $3 to $8 for the rest. 
Cash parking remains $10, reflecting the $2 drop from the start of last season insti­tuted when the new owner­ship group took over last August. Parking is only $5 for Friday games. 
Individual tickets go on sale March 5 for all games except opening day. 
For the April 1 opener against Boston, fans have to register online for a drawing to determine who gets the chance to buy the remaining limited number of individual reserved seats and standing room tickets. Or the team is offering 10-game plans that include a ticket to opening day. 
NBA 


Cavaliers drop 26th consecutive game, extend NBA record streak 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND — Forget the NBA record, the Cavaliers are officially as bad as any team in any pro sport. 
Cleveland’s losing streak reached 26, matching the 1976­77 Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ record for consecutive incompe­tence on Wednesday night with a 103-94 loss to the Detroit Pistons, who were supposedly a beatable opponent for the bottom-dwelling Cavs. 
Instead, Cleveland’s season slipped further into shame. 
The Cavs (8-45) remain winless since Dec. 18 and have now dropped 36 of 37. Their next chance to end the unimaginable slide will be on Friday against the Los Angeles Clippers. After that comes a home game against the road-winless Washington Wizards on Sunday. 
Rodney Stuckey scored 22 to pace the Pistons, who didn’t want to be remembered as the team that let the Cavs get off the mat. 
The Cavs and their fans had hoped this was the night the streak stopped. 
Cleveland had played well in its previous four games, losing by a combined 21 points and actually came into the matchup favored to beat Detroit, which was play­ing its second straight after host­ing the league-leading San Antonio Spurs on Tuesday. 
But the Cavs fell into a 12-point hole at half, and although they pulled within three in the third, they fell apart early in the fourth. Only some late buckets in garbage time made the score respectable. 
When the final horn sounded, Cleveland’s fans didn’t bother booing as the Cavs dropped their heads and walked dejectedly to the locker room. 
“Well, one of these days,” one fan climbing the stairs mumbled as he left. 
There had been so many encouraging signs lately. The Cavs fell 99-96 on Monday in Dallas, when they failed to exe­cute in the closing seconds and set a new league record for con­secutive losses over one and two seasons. Coach Byron Scott was heartened by his young team’s effort against the Mavericks, and with eight straight home games ahead, the time seemed right for Cleveland to get back in the win column. 
Not yet. 
After playing the Spurs, the Pistons were ready for the Cavs. 


They built an 11-point lead after three and never let Cleveland get going in the fourth. 
Will Bynum scored 17 and Charlie Villanueva 13 for the Pistons, who played without guard Rip Hamilton. He sat out with a strained right groin. 
Antawn Jamison scored 20 of his 22 points in the second half for Cleveland. J.J. Hickson scored 18 with 15 rebounds. 
Down 55-43 after a flat first half, the Cavs came out inspired in the third quarter. 
They went to Jamison, who scored just two points in the first half, early and he single-handed­ly brought them back by outscor­ing the Pistons 10-4 in the first 
3:32 as Cleveland closed within 59-55. However, Detroit respond­ed, carried an 81-70 lead into the fourth and took care of business 
— just like Cleveland’s previous 25 opponents. 



Thursday, February 10, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 



McCarthy believes Packers’ talent will improve 
fitting end to Green Bay’s champi-

Associated Press 
onship season. 
GREEN BAY, Wis. — Packers Cornerback Charles Woodson coach Mike McCarthy had one (broken collarbone) won’t need final chance Wednesday to go surgery, wide receiver Jordy over an injury report, providing a Nelson (left knee) played through his injury, linebacker A.J. Hawk (wrist) needs an arthroscopic pro­cedure, and wide receiver Donald Driver (ankle) would be out if Green Bay had to play another game. 

Add those to the 16 other Packers on injured reserve and McCarthy believes his next team will certainly be more talented coming into training camp. That doesn’t mean Green Bay’s title defense will be any easier. 
“The most important thing is we need to be the best football team next year. We can be maybe the most talented and best foot­ball team. But sometimes the most talented team doesn’t win,” McCarthy said. “We have to make sure we’re the best football team, that everybody’s doing their role, doing what they’re supposed to be doing at the level they’re sup­posed to be doing it. 
“Because that was a great experience to watch this group of men pull together and fight through the adversity that they needed to, and play their best football when it counted.” 
Now, McCarthy said the next lesson the Packers need to learn is how to deal with success after the franchise’s 13th NFL champi­onship and fourth Super Bowl with a 31-25 win over Pittsburgh on Sunday. 
“It’s here, it’s right here, it’ll start with our whole organiza­tion, top to bottom,” the coach said. “Handling success, to me, is the biggest challenge in this busi­ness.” 
That’s one of the reasons why defending titles successfully has been so rare. 
New England last repeated as champion six years ago, and no team from the NFC has even made two consecutive Super Bowls since the Packers did it in 1997 and 1998. 
McCarthy’s life is already changing in ways big and small. His daily cup of Starbucks coffee had “congratulations” on it Wednesday morning, and he said it’ll take him at least a month to respond to everyone who reached out to him. 
He’s still thrilled with his chat with President Barack Obama on Monday (“He started with, ‘This is a tough phone call for a Bears fan to make””) and is honored that a street will be named after him somewhere near Lambeau Field. 
Both McCarthy and general manager Ted Thompson are in line for contract extensions before their current deals end in 2012. McCarthy declined to directly address his own contract negotiations or which teams con­tacted the Packers for permission to talk to his assistants. 
“Continuity is important, but change happens in this business,” McCarthy said. “Time will answer those questions.” 
The other uncertainty comes after the collective bargaining agreement expires March 3. 
The end of the labor deal and a potential lockout could mess up everyone’s offseason plans. McCarthy said it also affects negotiations to extend assistant coaches, and even when the Packers might be able to visit the White House because it’s usually attached to an organized team activity or a minicamp. 

He also sounded less than thrilled about a proposed 18­game schedule. 
“I know what the company line is, but you’re talking to a guy that barely made it through 16, so you can figure that one out for your­self,” he said. 
No matter when the season begins or how long it might be, Green Bay will have its core in place, led by Super Bowl MVP Aaron Rodgers and his receivers. Running back Ryan Grant and tight end Jermichael Finley return from injured reserve. 
The Packers are also well-equipped to run defensive coordi­nator Dom Capers’ attacking 3-4 scheme with young stars corner­back Tramon Williams, nose tackle B.J. Raji and linebacker Clay Matthews continuing their development. 
The abundance of talent also taught McCarthy a lesson about himself. 
He said he learned to handle his own ego this season by dele­gating leadership in a variety of ways, including letting the cap­tains talk before games late in the season after getting the idea driv­ing home one day after practice. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 10, 2011 
PGA 



Johnson returns to Pebble Beach for redemption 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. — Dustin Johnson returns to Pebble Beach with conflicting emotions. 
Rare is a defending champi­on who is looking for redemp­tion. 
Johnson has a chance to make history as the first play­er to win three successive years at the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am since this iconic event began in 1937. 
Forgotten is how he built a four-shot lead in 2009 and was declared the winner when rain cut the tournament short to 54 holes. Or how he smashed one last drive to set up an easy birdie from the bunker on the final hole last year for a one-shot victory. 
No, the lasting image of Johnson at Pebble Beach comes from the U.S. Open last summer. 
He had a three-shot lead going into the final round when he took two chips from the rough — one of them left-handed — and took a triple bogey on the second hole. Then came an aggressive play with the driver on No. 3 that he hooked into the bushes for a lost ball. His tee shot on the 


Shock 
continued from page 20 
average Notre Dame team. 
The age of Harangody is over. This Irish have a team full of stars, not just one. After years of relying on one star player and the 3-ball, Mike Brey has found a true team with interchangeable parts and strong defense. 
Notre Dame is a team full of role players who are ready to do their jobs every night. Just at the time when the Irish looked to fall back into its mold with Hansbrough as the super­star, we saw the real Notre Dame emerge. 
Hansbrough is the leader, plain and simple. He gets the ball with less than two minutes to go. He wills the ball into the hoop. He makes others around him better. That is his role. He singlehandedly led the Irish on the aforementioned run that turned the game around for the Notre Dame, scoring five points to tie the game in a mat­ter of seconds. But then he picked up the ominous fourth foul, and the Irish were doomed once again. 
But the difference between the teams of Irish past and this one goes back to a lesson learned a year ago, right around this time, when do-it­all forward Luke Harangody went down with an injury that left the Irish without their biggest star for the biggest stretch of the year. 
This learning experience was evident last night. 
Abromaitis is the multi-pur­pose man. He went from hit­ting 3s, to guarding Louisville phenom guard Preston Knowles, to ripping rebounds fourth went into the ocean. 
It added to a colossal col­lapse in his first chance to win a major. Johnson closed with an 82, the highest final round by a 54-hole leader at the U.S. Open in nearly 100 years. 
He had yet to get out to Pebble Beach by Wednesday, and planned to play only a couple of holes before sneak­ing over to Cypress Point. Johnson has moved into the celebrity rotation, meaning he will play Monterey Peninsula on Thursday and Spyglass Hill on Friday before he gets his first crack at Pebble Beach. 
Which memories will come back? 
“Neither,” Johnson said. “I’m just coming out to play the golf course. It’s still good, even though the last time I played it I struggled a little bit. But I’m still excited to get back out there and play. I’m always going to love this golf course, no matter what. I’m just ready to get back out and play.” 
But then he paused, and offered a slight smile. 
“Get a little redemption for the last round of the Open,” he said. 
Johnson does not lose confi­dence easily. Despite a round 


away from taller defenders on his way to 24 points — most of which came when Hansbrough was either struggling from the field or sitting on the bench in foul trouble. But the game-changing contribution had yet to be made, as the lead changed hands more times than Jack Cooley — the guy who does the dirty work — has been called Luke Harangody. 
Then along came Carleton Scott. Scott is the catalyst. He went from shooting 1-for-7 from the field with three points with less than 10 minutes to go, to shooting 5-for-11 on the night with 16 points and eight rebounds, two of which came after Scott blocked a shot, got the rebound on one end, and snatched another on a putback on the other end. The lanky senior forward even goes into the crowd after the game to celebrate. It’s a mutual feeling. The crowd feeds off his energy and he feeds off theirs, making his game that much better. 
Finally, we have the often criticized and seldom appreci­ated vital defenders who really take away the other team’s best scoring options. Senior forward Tyrone Nash is given the assignment of guarding the opposing big men, who are always bigger than he is. But Nash uses his quickness and deceptive length to get his opponent in foul trouble. Case in point: Nash held instrumen­tal Cardinals forwards Terrence Jennings and George Goode to a combined 16 points and 10 rebounds while draw­ing fouls on Jennings, which eventually led to Jennings foul­ing out early in overtime. 
Meanwhile, transfer forward Scott Martin guarded red-hot sharpshooter Kyle Kuric, limit­ing him to two field goals in the that would haunt some play­ers, he was right back in the mix two months later at the PGA Championship, poised to win another major until he failed to realize he was in a bunker on a Whistling Straits course that has too many bunkers to count. Instead of getting into a playoff, he wound two shots behind. Unfazed, Johnson won the BMW Championship a month later to mark himself as a ris­ing star. 
That’s not to say he hasn’t learned from his mistakes, especially at Pebble Beach. 
Johnson attributes his U.S. Open blunders to playing and thinking too quickly. He is among the fastest players in the game, and Johnson spent the latter part of last year try­ing to slow down. 
“In the first couple of rounds, I might get a little quick,” he said. “I probably need to do it more in the first, second and third rounds than I do in the final round. The final round is when you’re thinking and you’re more con­scious of what’s going on. That’s when it’s most impor­tant, when you’re under the gun and when you’ve got a shot to win. 
“Slow for me is still pretty fast,” he said. “I’ve got to feel like I’m moving pretty slow, which probably isn’t slow.” 
The AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am gets under way Thursday with the usual suspects — Johnson going for a third straight win, Phil Mickelson trying to find momentum sometime before the Masters, Davis Love III playing for the 25th consecu­tive year, and Padraig Harrington making his PGA Tour debut. 

Harrington was on his way out to Pebble Beach for a practice round when he bumped into Johnson. He stopped to shake hands and pass along a playful message. 
“I’m trying to take the tro­phy off your hands this week,” Harrington said. 
“Good luck,” Johnson said with a delivery that Clint Eastwood could appreciate. 
The Irish have a lot going for them right now, including a six-game Big East win streak. Plus the coach wears a turtle­neck, so what isn’t going well for the Irish these days? 
The views expressed in this column are those of author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
last 15 minutes of play after he scored 26 points until that point. Martin is the quintessen­tial team player, passing off multiple shots to keep the movement and rhythm of the offense going while playing 39 minutes. 
With these pieces of the puz­zle, we are fortunate to witness the true meaning of the word team. The crazy thing is that no one — probably not even Mike Brey himself — expected this team to be in the top-10 this year with an undefeated record at home, after defeating the likes of Connecticut, Marquette, Georgetown, Gonzaga and Louisville, in addition to knocking off No. 2 Pittsburgh on the road. 
The truth is, this Notre Dame team looks poised and overly ready to make a run into late March and early April. 



Thursday, February 10, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer Junior Shannon Mathews prepares for a forehand against DePaul April 16 at the Eck Tennis Center. 

Mathews 
continued from page 20 
ed in singles play and stand as a threat together in doubles. Despite a doubles loss by the pair last weekend against North Carolina, this weekend brings an opportunity to secure three wins. 
“Learning from our losses is the most important thing to help us succeed in future matches,” Frilling said. 
Supporting the juniors at the top of the singles rotation is cru­cial for Notre Dame, and a sur­prise at the bottom of the sin­gles lineup has been freshman Julie Sabacinski. Sabacinski won the first match-clinching victory of her career against Wake Forest Sunday. Positioned at No. 6 singles with a 3-2 record, she has recently come into her own as a member of the Irish. 
“Playing more matches makes my game more refined, and I have finally adjusted to college tennis,” Sabacinski said. “[This weekend] I am going to focus on bringing high energy to each match.” 
Seeded at No. 8, Michigan (4­
0) poses the most imminent threat to the Irish. This marks the second straight season the Wolverines have begun with a 4-0 record. 
No. 18 Vanderbilt (4-1) will take on the Irish at 11 a.m. Saturday. On Sunday at 11 a.m., Notre Dame will stand as the first ranked opponent the No. 74 Badgers (4-1) have faced this season. 

Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
Nel 
continued from page 20 
Nel came to the U.S. with a plan in mind. He wants to turn himself into an elite swimmer 
and compete on the internation­al stage. 
“With the help of my coaches and fellow team­mates, I hope to swim the fastest that I have ever been,” Nel said. 
Nel has been a contributing factor on the Irish squad. He helped Notre Although Big 

“With the help of my 
East champi­

coaches and my onships and 
teammates, I hope to NCAA competi­tions are on his 
swim the fastest that I 
mind, Nel said 

have ever been.” 
the pinnacle of 
his swimming 

Bertie Nel career would 
be represent-

Irish freshman 
Dame to victories in the 800­yard free relay and the 400­yard backstroke relay in the Dennis Stark Relays Oct. 8 in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. He finished fourth in the 400-yard IM in the Hawkeye Invitational Dec. 4 and finished second in the 400-yard backstroke against Utah Nov. 12. 
Overall, Nel is just glad to be part of the tradition at Notre Dame. He has embraced all there is to offer and appreci­ates everything that people have done for him here. 
“Being part of the Notre Dame swimming team is an amazing honor,” he said. “They are all a great group of gentlemen and it’s been an honor training and building 
relationships 
with them this 
past season.” 
ing his home 
country in 
either the 2012 
or 2016 Olympic Games. 
“It is a dream I have always had,” Nel said. “I know that I can reach that goal here at Notre Dame.” 
Up next for the Irish are the Big East Diving Championships Feb. 11-13 and the Big East swimming cham­pionships Feb. 16-19 in Louisville, Ky. 


Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


Siva 
continued from page 18 
You feel like if you can get to overtime in a game like that, we really felt like we had momen­tum getting to overtime, because it was not an easy one for us.” 
The Irish won the tip-off to start the extra period and Hansbrough found an open Scott, whose 3-pointer sparked a 13-0 run for the Irish on their way to the victory. 
“I don’t think Carlton had a smooth game, but when he had that clean look to start overtime, there was no second thought when he rose up to take that one,” Brey said. “It’s not surpris­ing. They have the will to get to overtime, and that’s experience and maturity. This group has kind of been developed now and they’re a pretty confident group. They’ve won a lot now, and wow, is that a good habit to have.” 

Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 10, 2011 
according to the NCAA. We had to motivate them this morning, 



Shootout 
Brey 
because they were down, and it shouldn’t be that way after a hard 
continued from page 20 
continued from page 20 
fought tie, like in the good ole for each team take their shots, days of hockey.” 

That was very similar. We went the team with the most goals wins While Jackson is not a fan of 
out and took care of business in the shootout. If no team has the shootout, some of his players 
overtime.” pulled ahead after three rounds, have opposite emotions. 
Hansbrough led the Irish the shootout continues until one “I love [the shootout]. I think it’s 
with 25 points, including five 3­team scores and the other misses. great for the fans,” Irish senior 
pointers. He said that he was The intensity and drama a center Ben Ryan said. “Having 
not pleased with the team’s shootout consists of provides the shootout decide [an extra 
game offensively, but when great entertainment to fans. Yet it point] is awesome for the sport of 
overtime came, it was Notre also can be a perplexing and con-college hockey.” 
Dame’s time to shine. fusing event. Though one team Notre Dame sophomore goal­
“We were trying so hard to “wins” and one “loses” a tender Mike Johnson also said he 
make our runs that we really shootout, any game that goes to a thinks the shootout is exciting, 
weren’t making our shots,” he shootout results in a tie for both though sometimes the result can 
said. “[Senior forward] Ty teams’ NCAA record. To add to be disheartening. 
[Nash] missed a hook shot, I the confusion, the CCHA, Notre “I think it’s definitely fun for the 
was missing some shots. I Dame’s conference, awards three league,” Johnson said. “But if 
thought [fourth-year forward points for a win, zero for a loss, you’re on the losing end, it’s kind 
Tim Abromaitis] really stepped and one for a tie in the confer-of bitter, even though it’s still a 
up and willed us to the win ence standings, solely in confer-tie.” 
tonight. I’ll be honest with you, ence games. The winner of the Though the shootout may be a 
we were in a heck of a drought, shootout then receives an extra tie for the NCAA, the extra point 
but in overtime we just got ior Kyle Kuric led the way for took a two-point lead with 1:19 point, in addition to the one point for a shootout win can be critical 
things going. We were due. If Louisville with 18 of his 28 to go before Nash drew a foul earned for the draw. down the conference stretch. But 
you give us enough time, we’re points in the first, including a and made both free throws, Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he both players take a calm 
going to start making some spectacular one-handed dunk tying the game 74-74. dislikes the shootout deciding an demeanor into the event. 
shots. To see our guys and the to end the period. With nine seconds to go, extra point, because it is not con-“When I [approach] the goalie, I 
way they willed us back into it “We probably feel in a game Notre Dame called a timeout tested in game-like conditions. just think of a few different things 
— it’s just a heck of a win for like that like you don’t deserve and switched to a zone defense, “I think it’s not part of the I’m going to do,” Ryan said. “I 
us tonight. This is one of the to be down four,” Irish coach which forced senior guard game,” Jackson said. “[Teams] know his tendencies a little bit, 
wins I’m going to remember for Mike Brey said. “You deserve to Preston Knowles to fire up an get an extra point for scoring one but I don’t try to psyche myself 
the rest of my life.” be down 12, so to be down four, errant 3-point attempt as time goal on a breakaway in a non-out.” 
Abromaitis finished the game you’re counting your blessings. expired in regulation. game environment.” Johnson echoed the thoughts of 
with 23 points and eight Jack and [freshman guard] Eric “We did not talk about it in Jackson is also not a shootout his teammate. 
rebounds. He made all nine of [Atkins] gave us a great lift off the timeout,” Brey said. “We supporter because the attitude of “It’s just reaction,” Johnson 
his foul shots, and played all the bench tonight. Jack was talked about what we were a team can be heavily influenced said. “I just go out there and try 
but one minute against the fabulous — he was scoring for going to do on the [sophomore by an event that doesn’t change to stop the puck. I try not to think 
Cardinals. us. We couldn’t score, and I felt guard Peyton] Siva ball-screen, the game’s official result. too much about it and just focus 
The Irish trailed for most of tonight that we were going to and we kind of changed on the “We tied the game last night on one shooter at a time. 
the first half, and by as much have to get 85 or 90 to get out fly, and we did a great job. and it felt like we lost,” Jackson Sometimes it goes your way, and 
as eight with five minutes to go of here tonight.” That’s veteran guys making it said after Notre Dame’s shootout sometimes it doesn’t, but you just 
in the period. But 10 points The back-and-forth game work. That helped us, and victory Jan. 29, in reference to have to brush it off either way.” 
from sophomore Jack Cooley in continued throughout the sec-changed their rhythm a little the previous night’s shootout loss. 
the last six minutes of the half ond half. The lead changed 10 bit, and forced a tough shot. “The kids battled hard for 65 Contact Sam Gans at 
kept them within four going to times throughout the game and minutes, and we tied the game sgans@nd.edu 
the locker room. Cardinals jun-was tied 13 times. Louisville see SIVA/page 17 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Thursday, February 10, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 25Chamber workers: Abbr. 
1 Thirsty toddler's
request 26*Capital ENE ofJerusalem
5 Hurlcursewords 
30Olympic at? gymnast Paul or
9With 65-Across, Morgango against the 31Something for group…orwhat pairs to enter? the shaded 32Screw up squares literally 37Organ donation do in the 
site answersto the 39Genre for the starred clues Spice Girls and 14Reply Oasissuggesting
“perhaps” 41“Slow and 
15Big name in PCs steady wins the 16Sister of the race,” e.g. Biography 42Poker game Channel memento,17*Average maybenational 
43Turn aroundearnings 44*Symbol above a
20Let it all out? 21Mont. neighbor 5 
48Danish kroner, 
22“Hooked on Classics” record topologically 
company speaking
23Era of ___ 52Not look so(period in Notre good?Dame football 
53Partner of 40­history) Down, traffic­24One who works wise
in feet and meters 54Nervous as___ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MED I C I 
MCAN 

PEZ ATOLLS ELBA 
AXE HELLO IMMI STERED IST SNOOP 

ALECS PETS 
ASS TIMETOHI TTHEHAY AWACS LAMA 
AMA BI CS YELPS 
BR IC OSH FOGG 
WI TCH OHI FORGOT IATE I T ARK 

ENTS ADL IB I LEAC 
FUM THETALK I NGHORSE WON DEEP 

E I LEEN OWS ETAS 
STEERS 
55Pole positionholder? 
56Use aportion of,as one song inanother 
59*Easter basket treat 62Ex-governor
Spitzer63Jerk 64Race 
assignment65See 9-Across 66Spotted67Ciudad del ___
(second-largestcity in Paraguay) 
Down 
1 Exhaust, with“out” 2 Green card, inbrief 3 Medieval close-combat weapon 4 Bart Simpson
catchphrase5 Mock 6 French “present” 
7 Makesome connections 8 Saw rightthrough?9 Shut out 10Sets up, as poolballs 
11Short online message12Pro pitchers13Falls (over)
18Actor Rickman of the HarryPotter films 
19Bit 24Bill bloater 26“Excuse me…” 27Lunch spread,
often 28Qtr. starter 29Application
letters 33“No sweat …” 
EUGENIA LAST 





HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel 
34Some soup 40Partner of 53-49Florida's ___ingredients Across, traffic-National Forest wise 50___to go 
35QB Flutie 42Penguin's locale 51“There, there” 36Place the first 
56Before you know 
bet 45Ca, Co orCu 
it 382006 Winter 46Some races 57Time to give up? Olympics 47Get out of the 58Thin blade 
backdrop cold? 
60Cleveland ___, 39Orange Free 48Circus O. State settler chairperson? 61Caustic soda 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK


JUMBLE

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THE MATING RITUAL SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer





Sports
Thursday, February 10, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Dealing with the Cards 

Role players, not stars, withanotherNDvictory 
Overtime thriller ends 
lead team’s magic run 
They did it again.

By ERIC PRISTER 
I am still in shock going all 
Associate Sports Editor 

the way back to the Old Spice Tournament. In January 2009, Louisville 
At one point it looked as and Notre Dame found them-
though the selves tied at the end of regula­
home streak tion at Freedom Hall in 
was over, Louisville, Ky. The Cardinals 
after came out firing in the extra 
Louisville period and pulled out a 14­
went on an 8­point victory. 
0 run early in Two years later, it was Notre 
the second Dame’s turn for revenge. 
half to make Led by seven points from sen-
it 55-50. Andrew ior forward Carlton Scott in the 
Two min-
Gastelum
final five minutes, the No. 8 

utes later Irish stayed undefeated at 
the score 
Sports W riter
home, beating No. 16 Louisville 

was 59-55 89-79 at the Purcell Pavilion. 
with the “It’s just two great teams bat-
Irish looking as though not tling it out,” senior guard Ben 
even a timeout could stop Hansbrough said after the 
them from scoring points. game. “This game was very 
That is definitely not the similar to two years ago, when 
Notre Dame team I am accus­it went into overtime and they 
tomed to. just burst out and won by 14. 
But, then again, this isn’t the 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Irish senior guard Ben Hansbrough drives on Louisville’s Mike Marra during Notre Dame’s 89-79 see DIGGINS/page 13 overtime win over the Cardinals Wednesday. Hansbrough had a game-high 25 points in the effort. see SHOCK/page 16 

MEN’S SWIMMING 



Freshman Nel travels from South Africa to join Notre Dame 
Nel admits that coming to ins and outs of the college tional system, Nel’s had the challenges, Nel has not had to
By MATTHEW ROBISON 

the U.S. has not been easy, but experience. Nel had to do so challenge of competing in one go them alone. He has had the
Sports Writer 

it has been worth the effort. with limited knowledge of the of the toughest collegiate support of his teammates, “I have always heard that English language and without swimming conferences. But it coaches, and classmates the 
Before freshman Bertie Nel everything is bigger and better the luxury of a short trip is also an opportunity for entire time. He has not seen could spend his days swim-in America, and that is true,” home. which he is grateful. his parents since freshmen ming mile upon mile in the Nel said. “Everything was “I grew up in South Africa “Swimming is completely dif-orientation, but he has new Rolfs Aquatic Center, he had to done on a much bigger scale with Afrikaans as my mother ferent than back in South family here. make an 8000-mile journey here, and it was rather over-tongue,” Nel said. “I have had Africa,” Nel said. “I absolutely “I am thankful for two great just to get to campus. The whelming, but a lot of fun.” English classes since the love the team camaraderie families on campus, my fellow Tzaneen, South Africa, native Most freshmen have trouble fourth grade, but never as and spirit, and training was teammates and Stanford Hall decided to take the challenge balancing schoolwork and intensive as here in America.” harder than I ever expected it Griffins who are always there of living, learning, and swim-socializing, adapting to living On top of adapting to a new to be.” ming in America head on. on their own, and learning the language and a new educa-Although there have been see NEL/page 17 
HOCKEY 

ShootoutsdecideCCHAgames 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The last time the Irish hit the ice for a series, on Jan. 28 and 29 against Miami (Ohio), a shootout decided both games. The first contest left the Notre Dame stu­dents and fans disappointed. The second left the Irish supporters elated. 
Yet, according to the NCAA, the result of both games was the same: a tie. 
The shootout is a competition used when two teams are tied after regulation play and five minutes of overtime. Three skaters are selected by each team to attempt a one-on-one break­away against the opposition’s goaltender. After all three players 
COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 

Sophomore goaltender Mike Johnson makes a save in a see SHOOTOUT/page 18 shootout loss Jan. 28 against Miami in the Joyce Center. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Three matches present chance to bounce back 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

With two losses behind them, the No. 13 Irish (3-2) want nothing more than a solid performance this week­end, when Michigan, Vanderbilt and Wisconsin trav­el to the Eck Center to face off against Notre Dame over the course of four days. 
“They are all tough teams, but if we compete the way we are capable I know we can do well in all of the upcoming matches,” freshman Jennifer Kellner said. 
Kellner’s contributions last weekend included a win in both singles and doubles play against Wake Forest. At the No. 5 singles position, she has stood out among a determined freshman class that has improved throughout the sea­son. 
“I’ve been working on a lot of small things the coaches have been telling me, but they certainly make a big differ­ence,” Kellner said. “Things like stepping into the ball more and working on my serv­ing toss have been a few of several things.” 
In the singles competition, juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews still remain the driving force behind the Irish. They are both undefeat­
see MATHEWS/page 18 







