the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Constituent Services welcomes student input 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Students with suggestions 
or complaints to improve campus life will soon have a designated student govern­ment committee tasked sole­ly with fielding student feed­back. 
The Constituent Services committee will offer the campus a more direct line of communication to student government, student body president Pat McCormick said. 
“The Constituent Services committee is hopefully going to function as the ‘front door’ to the student govern­ment office, ” McCormick said. “Anyone who has a complaint, suggestion or criticism — they can take those and submit them 
online or in person to the chair, who will either work on them directly or distrib­ute them to the right com­mittee.” 
McCormick said the new committee is built upon Whine Week, a weeklong event run by student body president emeritus Catherine Soler and vice president emeritus Andrew Bell. During the event, student 


Irish Guard to hold auditions for 2011 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
With the Blue and Gold Game just days away, the Notre Dame football team is gearing up for the 2011 sea­son. It’s not the only group doing so, though — the Irish Guard is setting its sights on another year on the football field. 
“The Guard is a unique opportunity that cannot be found on other college cam­puses,” Donelle Flick, opera­tions manager for the Band 
of the Fighting Irish said. “Thousands of fans line up to get a glimpse of the Irish Guard and Notre Dame Band on game day. This following inspires guard members to carry on this great tradition.” 
Competition for member­ship in the Guard is fierce, as the group only has 10 mem­bers. Once the position of Guardsman is earned, the title is held until graduation. 
“Between 25 and 50 candi­dates audition for a spot on the 10 -member guard in August,” Flick said, “So the success rate of those who audition depends on how many graduating Guard member’s places we are try­ing to fill. 
“The Irish Guard was to be impressive, and as such, each member was required to be a minimum of six feet, two inches tall, a regulation still in effect today,” Flick said. 
Flick added that due to its exclusive nature, the Guard remains one of the most cov­eted titles for students to hold at Notre Dame. 
Besides their marching duties, the Irish Guard is a unit of authority, protecting the ranks of the marching band. On game days, the Guard is either in front of the band clearing the way or flanking it on the sides to shield it from hostile crowds. 
Prospective Guardsmen have a tryout consisting of learning to march properly, practicing standing at atten­tion and maintaining a straight face. They must put these skills into a routine for a final audition to demon­strate they can handle the pressure during football games. 
Freshman Eddie Linczer said he has hoped to earn one of the coveted positions on the Guard since childhood. 
“I think it would be a great experience to be a member of the guard, for they are at the 
see GUARD/page 5 


DAN JACOBS/The Observer The Irish Guard leads the the band onto the feld at Yankee Stadium in New York City on Nov. 17, 2010. 
government representatives stationed themselves around campus to collect student feedback. 
“Our hope is that the Constituent Services commit­tee will build upon Whine Week and make Whine Week 
see EATON/page 5 


NDSP looks into assault 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating a sexual battery reported to campus police Saturday, according to an email sent to students Saturday after­noon. 
The reported sexual battery was committed by an acquain­tance in a campus residence hall in the early morning hours on Saturday, the email stated. 
Officer Phillip Johnson, director of NDSP, said that according to Indiana state law a person is guilty of sexual battery when that individual touches another per­son against that person’s will to arouse his or her own sexual desire. 
The victim of sexual battery is then compelled to submit to the touching by force or the immi­nent threat of force, or is not in a mental state to give consent, according to state law. 
Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault are available from NDSP at ndsp.nd.edu and at the Office of Student Affairs’ website osa.nd.edu/health-safety/assault/ 


ROTCholdstrainingexercises 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
This weekend, underclass­men of the Fightin’ Irish Army ROTC Battalion took the chance to apply their knowl­edge in the field — literally. 
The group held its Notre Dame Field Training Exercise (NDFTX) at the Culver Military Academy in Culver, Ind., Friday to Sunday. Forty fresh-SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Members of Notre Dame Army ROTC participate in FTX events see ROTC/page 4 at the Culver Military Academy in Culver, Ind., this weekend. 



SMC t-shirt raises violence awareness 
ter of the College to wear 
By MONA RODRIGUEZ 
the shirts to provide a visual 
News Writer 

impact of violence, as one in four college women is sexu-A quarter of Saint Mary’s ally assaulted in her college career. 
campus wore teal t-shirts Monday, using fashion to The event launches Green make a statement about vio-
Dot Week, which aims to raise awareness about sexu­lence. 

Saint Mary’s Belles al assault, relationship vio-Against Violence Office (BAVO) encouraged a quar-see SHIRT/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CLC discusses off-campus safety page 3  Viewpoint page 6  ND welcomes Audrey Niffenegger page 8  Women’s softball page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 12, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE MATHEMAT CAL CONSTANT?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sam Stryker Megan Veselik Emily Schrank Matt DeFranks Adam Llorens Megan Golden 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Maria Fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 
Mackenzie Sain Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 
Porcupines become public enemies 
HARRISBURG, Pa. — Pennsylvania hunting regulators say it’s time to stick it to porcupines. 
The Pennsylvania Game Commission is poised to declare open season on the slow-moving, razor-sharp rodents on Tuesday, citing com ­plaints of property dam­age from residents. 
Other states allow por­cupine hunting. In Pennsylvania, porcupines are listed as a protected species but can be killed by residents if they’re causing property dam ­age. 
Commission member Dave Putnam tells The Philadelphia Inquirer the 
Dominic Romeo 
freshman Keough 
Kevin Eller 
juniorStanford 
Liz Clark 

sophomoreLe Mans 
Daniel Smyth 
freshman Zahm 

Aedan Fortes 
juniorOff-Campus 
Phi Tran 
sophomoreO’Neill 

“Pi, because “Planck’s, so “Pi, because “Universal “Like Buzz, “Phi, because there’s a day you can walk I’m hungry gravitational infinity and I’m one letter dedicated to the plank now right now.” constant. It beyond.” greater than 
it.” yar!” keeps me down pi.” to earth.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

proposal would offer res­idents the clear assur ­ance they can kill trou­blesome porcupines. He says the animals damage log cabins and have been known to nibble on vehi­cle brake lines. 
Some animal welfare groups question the plan. 
One hunter tells The Philadelphia Inquirer he wouldn ’t consider it sporting. Tom Leete says “you wouldn’t so much track a porcupine as bump into it.” 
Imported lizards not welcome in Thailand 
BANGKOK — Authorities in Thailand have seized 1,800 moni­tor lizards being smug­gled on pickup trucks to the capital. 
Customs officials say the Bengal monitor lizards were hidden in mesh bags and stashed in open containers behind boxes of fruit in three pickup trucks. They were seized Thursday at a checkpoint in southern Thailand. 
Customs Department chief Prasong Poontaneat said Friday he suspects the lizards were destined to be eaten. He said their meat sells for $7.50-$15 per pound ($16-$33 per kilogram) in China, mak­ing them worth more than $60,000. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
University of Florida polit­ical science professor Michael Bernhard will be offering a lecture entitled “Communist Legacies and Democratic Survival in a Comparative Perspective: Liability or Advantage? ” this afternoon from 12:30 to 2 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center, Room C103. 
RecSports is offering free body composition and blood pressure testing this after­noon from 12 to 1 p.m. in the RSRC Wellness Room . Registration is avaliable through RecRegister. 
Notre Dame professors Daniel Phillpot and Mark Noll and Georgetown University professor Timothy Samuel Shah will be offering a lecture entitled “God’s Century: Resurgent Religion in Global Politics” this afternoon from 12:30 to 2 p.m. at McKenna Hall. 
The Notre Dame International Law Society and the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will be offering a panel on the current crisis in Libya this evening from 4 to 5 
p.m. at the Law School. 
Vote on artwork from the 2011 Art Battle held Monday. Artwork will be displayed in the Sorin Room of LaFortune and top artists in each division will receive gift card prizes. Voting takes place this evening from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. The event is sponsored by the Native American Student Association of Notre Dame. 
To submit information to be included in this section 
of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



57 47 HIGH 6461 5043
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


37 30 LOW 4642 3631 







Tuesday, April 12, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Students,rectorsdiscusssafety 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) passed a resolution Monday requesting the addi­tion of safety-related pro-
g ram m i n g  to  F r es h m an  
Orientation.  
S t u d e n t b o d y  p r e s i d e n t  

emeritus Catherine Soler said the orientation program had a safety component in the past, but it was eliminated. 
“One of the issues about 
off -campus is that not enough information is given to new students when they first come to school any ­more,” she said. 
Some dorms hold their own off-campus safety discussions at the beginning of the school year, but student body vice president emeritus Andrew Bell said the talks should be standardized. 
“We want every freshman to get the exact same talk, exact same presentation and exact same interaction with law enforcement,” he said.” 
Soler and Bell plan for law enforcement to be a major component of the new pro­gram. Soler said if freshmen met and socialized with Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) or members of the South Bend Police Department, they would feel more comfortable approach­ing them for help during “They are already getting their time at Notre Dame. this information on many 
Student government’s fronts,” he said. “A seven recent agreement with law minute presentation doesn’t enforcement includes a reso-need to ramble on, but it lution in could be which stu -more bullet dent govern-points and ment prom-say, ‘Here’s ises to edu-what you cate students “We want every really need about off -freshman to get the to know.’” campus exact same talk, exact Sr. Sue issues, Soler same presentation and Dunn, vice said. exact same interaction president of 
Chief of with law enforcement.” Student staff emeri-Af fairs, tus Nick Andrew Bell said infor-
Ruof said student body vice president mation pro-safety is vided for 
emeritus
addressed for about seven min ­utes during the manda ­tory College HAS (Hookups, Alcohol and Sexual assault) Issues program for freshmen. The members of CLC debated whether the new safety com­ponent should remain part of an already existing program or if it should be its own dis­cussion. 
Keough Hall Rector Fr. Pete McCormick said the safety discussion should remain part of an existing program. He said one way to accom­plish this would be to provide lists of essential information to avoid overwhelming stu­dents. 
freshmen should be shared with transfer students as 
well. McCormick recom ­mended the most critical facts be distributed to the entire student body. 
Fr. Tom Gaughan, rector of Stanford Hall, said two key 
off -campus safety details should be emphasized. 
“They have to know that it doesn’t matter what they blow, even if it’s .01 — they’re still going to get a ticket,” he said. “Running will always magnify the prob­lem.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

Discussion explores local women’s issues 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Students, faculty and mem­bers of the South Bend com­munity discussed specific issues affecting women Monday in the Saint Mary’s Student Center, as the Indiana Commission for Women (ICW) hosted a listening session. 
Kristin Garvey, executive director of ICW, and Jessica Brannam, staff coordinator of ICW, facilitated a discussion of issues impacting women in the community. 
Garvey said the mission of ICW is to understand the needs of women and their families to work strategically within the government and communities to help bring about positive solutions. 
“We are committed to women’s full participation and we act as the voice for women to the government,” she said. 
The group aims to compile a report of the top issues and develop an action plan statewide, Brannam said. 
“We want to engage people to get involved,” she said. “If we don’t address these issues, it’s never going to change.” 
Problem areas identified at the listening session included women in poverty, pay equity, childcare, healthcare, violence against women, pregnancy prevention programs, single parenting and the hierarchy of gender roles. 
The group of Saint Mary’s staff, students and members of the South Bend community col­lectively identified the two most prominent issues in today’s society: domestic, sexu­al and verbal violence and cuts to the federal budget in areas of need specific to women. 
Dr. Elaine Meyer-Lee, direc­tor of the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership department, said men and women have to work together to bring about societal change. 
“It’s really just the idea of shifting the culture. Men must be vocal and active as well as women,” Meyer-Lee said. “The goal is to challenge ideas and dedicate raising awareness through an education to our students. We have to support each other.” 
Junior Catherine Cleary said community members must continue to educate and stimu­late conversation on the sub­ject. 
“It was nice to have commu­nity members, college students and staff recognizing issues that are affecting all of us,” Cleary said. “We can all be a united front in tackling them. We just need concrete ideas for a societal shift for anything to happen.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 12, 2011 
Experts discuss protests, faith 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Political protests in North Africa and the Middle East have a link to people of faith, according to Emad Shahin and Joe Bock. 
Shahin, associate professor of Religion, Conflict and Peacebuilding at the Kroc Institute, and Bock, director of Notre Dame’s Global Health Training, gave a lecture titled “Protests in Northern Africa and the Middle East: Why they Matter to Americans and People of Faith,” Monday in the Spes Unica Hall of Saint Mary’s College. 
Shahin emphasized the political activity in the region, while Bock focused on the nonviolent protests of people of faith in Northern Africa and the Middle East. 
Shahin said the area is experi­encing political change in a rapid manner. 
“We are witnessing in the Middle East an amazing and remarkable demonstration of people’s power — how they are risking their lives for the better­ment of their countries and the remarkable ability and skills of the youth to mobilize their coun­trymen during these times of protests,” he said. 
Most countries in the region, with the exception of Libya, have exhibited nonviolent means of protest, Shahin said. 
“These are inclusive demon­strations, and protests that include a multiplicity of classes and a universal nature of values have been raised through these protests. These values include freedoms, social justice and liber­ty,” he said. “These people have been able to break through the barrier of fears and brutal regimes. Fear is gone and people feel liberated.” 
Shahin said non-violent protests might not be able to avoid aggres­sion completely, even if they are people of great faith. 
Bock, who lived in Jerusalem for three years, said he witnessed the mixing of people of different faiths and their conflicts. He said the emergence of new technolo­gies could be used for the preven­tion of hostilities. 
“Nonviolent social movements in the Middle East and Northern Africa are using components of bounded crowd-sourcing, strate­gic nonviolence, digital mapping, early warning and early response and crowd feeding to potentially create a synergistic combination of technologies that can make a critical difference in overcoming tyranny,” Bock said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
man and sophomore cadets participated. 
Lindsay Miller, a senior at Bethel College and member of the Battalion, said the week­end provided an opportunity for sophomores to develop their leadership skills. 
During the NDFTX, cadets practiced land navigation and five lane drills, Miller said. 

The drills “It’s scary going in, should be a lot included four but it should be a lot of fun to learn of fun to learn new 
Situ ati ona l new things Training things alongside alongside Exercise (STX) everyone else.” everyone else,” lane drills — she said. 
Megan Maloney 
simulations of Freshman attacki ng, freshman Sabina Fischer he emerged from the weekend with stronger group manage­ment skills. 
“The FTX gave us a great opportunity to be able to lead and to do so without the pres­sure of actually being graded,” he said. “Personally, I felt very comfortable and my experi­ence reinforced my confidence in my abilities.” 
Freshman Megan Maloney said she saw NDFTX as a chance to learn and practice 
field training 
exercise drills. 
“It’s scary 
going in, but it 
reconnais­sance, knock­ing out a bunker and fighting off an ambush. 
The final component was a patrolling lane drill, a longer element involving two patrols fighting each other with paint-ball guns. 
“The paintballs made you treat it more realistically. You had to avoid opposing fire,” freshman Chris Lillie said. 
Sophomore John Dieckman said he was excited for the chance to demonstrate his leadership skills. 
“This is our first opportunity as sophomores to lead,” he said. “I’m hoping to make a solid first impression and make the best of this opportu­nity.” 
Sophomore Eric Dowdey said said she 
enjoyed apply­
ing her knowl­edge in the spring weather during a weekend of drills and training outdoors. 
“I put a lot of the things we’ve learned this year togeth­er, and the nice weather helped,” she said. 
NDFTX was limited to under­classmen, which freshman Rob McKenna said allowed the par­ticipants to develop a sense of camaraderie. 
“It was a great experience and you couldn’t ask for better weather,” he said. “Also, since it was just sophomores and freshmen we got more atten­tion from the evaluators and had more unit cohesion.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


Tuesday, April 12, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Eaton 
continued from page 1 
every week, ” McCormick said. 
Freshman Heather Eaton, chair of the committee, said she hopes to implement “Whine Wednesdays” in the vein of Whine Week before the semester ends. 
In addition to the online submission method, Whine Wednesdays will offer stu­dents a chance to present their concerns directly to student leaders. 
“Similar to last adminis­tration ’s Whine Week, Whine Wednesdays would occur once a month and would be a 
tion takes shape. “Examples of things we 
“Since Services is a brand new committee, members and students will play a vital role in defin­ing how we work and what projects we take on this year, ” she said. 
Eaton said the commit ­tee would consist of approximate-
chance for “Student government students to is a great organization talk to their with a lot of power to senators and initiate change. We members of would never forget that student gov -we were chosen to ernment serve the student 
about things body.” they would like to see Heather Eaton changed at 
Constituent Services chair 
Notre Dame,” Eaton said. Eaton said 
Constituent might address this year are 
“Student input often gets lost in the vast operation that is student government, so having a committee dedicated solely to student feedback will make their voice that much louder.” 
Heather Eaton Constituent Services chair 
pep rally reform, more points for Grab -N-Go and the marketing 
of the newly-returned quarter dogs.” 
Eaton said the committee would make it easier for 
ly 15 members, with up to five student senators. These 
committee members would focus 
on small ­scale, everyd ay issues stu ­dents are unsatisfied with, she said. 
“We will find out what the day -to -day concerns of the stu ­
students would influence dents are and what they how the committee’s func-want changed,” Eaton said. 
Guard 
continued from page 1 
heart of the tradition at this University,” he said. “Growing up in South Bend, I would come on campus for game days and watch the Guard’s inspection, and then their march into the stadi­um.” 
Though the tryout process is rigorous, Flick said accepted Guardsmen enjoy the benefits of being a part of one of the most presti­gious traditions of Notre Dame. 
“Beyond representing the University in one of its most revered and most recogniza­ble traditions, the primary benefits are the develop ­ment of leadership skills and long -lasting friendships between Guardsmen,” she students to take advantage 
of 
student government ’s ability to improve student life. 

“Student government is a great organization with a lot of power to initiate change. We should never forget that we were chosen to serve the student body,” Eaton said. “Student input often gets lost in the vast 

operation 
that is student government, so having a committee dedicated solely to getting student feedback will make their voice that much louder.” 


Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
said. 
The group of precision marchers was formed in 1949 to add spectacle while leading the band on march-outs. 
The Guard held an infor­mational meeting yesterday and will hold another Thursday at 6:15 p.m. in the Ricci Band Rehearsal Hall. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


Shirt 
continued from page 1 
lence and stalking. 
The shirt reads, “Break the Silence...” on the front and “because 1 in 4 is too many” on the back. 
Junior Lupita Quintana said the t-shirts provided a power­ful visual representation of violence. 
“Since one fourth of the school is wearing the shirt, it puts things in to perspective to think that every girl I see wearing it represents a woman that is a victim of a 
sexual assault,” she said. “It has a greater effect seeing it than just read­ing statistics.” 
Junior Angela Berra said she thought the message of the shirts made an impact on stu­dents’ under ­standing of vio­lence. 
“I was asked in class about my shirt and I think aware ­ness is being spread across campus, which is our goal because one in 

“Since one fourth of the school is wearing the shirt, it 
puts things in to perspective to think that every girl I see wearing it represents a woman that is a victim of sexual assault. It has a greater effect seeing it than just reading statistics.” 
Lupita Quintana junior 

four is too many,” she said. 
Junior Cat Cleary said the shirts promoted discussion of BAVO’s ideas on campus, even amongst faculty. 
“I’ve had both students and professors stop and talk to me today about our shirts and events BAVO is putting on this week,” she said. “I have found that the shirts have raised awareness on every part of our campus and have promoted dialogue, two goals BAVO had for this initiative.” 
Connie Adams, assistant director of BAVO, said the 359 shirts purchased for the event were all claimed by 
12:30 p.m. last Thursday. 
“Students’ enthusiasm and passion was evident,” she said. 
A vigil was held Monday evening outside of Holy Cross Circle. Students recited read­ings pertaining to the issue of violence, including a poem by Maya Angelou. Afterwards, students wrote down anec­
dotes on dispos­able paper about how their lives or commu­nities were impacted by violence. The slips were then placed in water, allowing them to dissolve. 
BAVO will host a showing 
of the docu ­mentary “Sin by Silence” at 7 
p.m. Wednesday in Magd alena Hall. The film examines the stories of women incar ­cerated for 
killing abusive husbands. Social activist Brenda Clubine, featured in the film after spending 26 years in prison, will offer a lecture immediately following the showing. 
Contact Mona Rodriguez at mrodri01@saintmarys.edu 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, April 12, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Airline mind games 
Southwest Airlines has some defi­nite pros. It often offers dirt-cheap flights to popular destinations. The colorful planes are fun to look at and sometimes the pilot even cracks jokes over the plane’s address Troy Mathew system. 
Scene Writer 
However, Southwest Airlines also presents a rather terri­fying prospect — unassigned seat­ing. That is, your seat partner is determined by the whims of the air­line gods. The right actions could land you a highly desirable neighbor. Conversely, failure to take action could result in disaster. You could find yourself enduring a perpetually screaming ginger tot (as I did for an eight-hour flight), strange smells or other harrowing possibilities. 
Having flown alone several times, I know all too well the fear a com­pletely full flight can inspire. Without the useful buffer of a family member or friend, nothing separates you from whatever random human decides to take the adjacent seat. 
Sometimes the neighbor is innocu­ous and barely noticeable. This is the mark of a desirable neighbor. A desirable candidate for a neighbor­ing seat is defined as follows: some­one who appears generally hygienic, can easily fit his or her body within the allotted single plane seat, is not a child, appears to not be deathly ill and is not possessing any type of pungent or ethnic food. 
To seduce a desirable person into your adjacent seat, you must typify the desirable characteristics your­self. For example, listen to your iPod or read to show you won’t try to engage in creepy or unwanted con­versation with this stranger. Try to maintain a facial expression of alert­ness and health, to assure the possi­ble seat-occupant you don’t pose a threat of contamination. Stay away from the middle armrest, to show your potential neighbor you won’t impede on their personal space. 
However, use these tactics with caution, as this strategy will attract both desirable and undesirable potential neighbors. This is where the practice becomes nuanced and complicated. You must be constantly evaluating boarding passengers, using a skilled eye to instantaneous­ly determine which people you could tolerate having in your personal-space bubble for the next several hours. 
Thus, attracting desirable guests is only effective if you also discourage the undesirables. To do this, simply break all of the above tips. Grab a nearby barf-bag, and lean precari­ously close to it. Dig out a bag of sour cream and onion chips, and eat them with your mouth open. Perhaps you can even arrange your coat to make it appear as though you have body fat that poses a threat of spilling into the neighbor­ing seat. 
Play this game with skill and care­ful attention, and you’re well on your way to a relatively enjoyable flight. Now if you can just nab an extra bag of peanuts from the flight attendant — forget Southwest, you’re practically first class! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
n ot  n e ce s s a r il y  th o s e  o f  T h e  
Observer.  
Co n t a ct  Tr o y  M a t h e w  a t  
tmathew2@nd.edu  

A few years ago, something came up in The Observer Viewpoint section pertain­ing to the motivation of columnists. The author stated all columnists are being selfish, and that writing our opinions to be read by thousands of people across campus was simply a way to boost our ego and make us feel important. After two years as a columnist, how­ever, I think that I have found that nothing could be Andy Ziccarelli further from the truth. I Moment of Inertia don’t write because I want people to know who I am. That is probably the last thing on my mind when I sit down to write a column. If columns were to be published anonymously, I would not even blink. I have never used this space as a soap box upon which I can stand and preach to the entire campus how I feel, convincing you why I am right. 

There are far too many well-informed people on this campus that don’t have the forum I do that could make far more con­vincing arguments, either for or against anything controversial that I would chose to write about. 
My reasons for writing are twofold. My first reason is that transcribing my thoughts into a permanent medium is simply a form of self-expression. I reached a sad conclusion one day, one 

Why I write 
that many other former high school ath­
letes reach: we can’t do it anymore. I 
watch enviously as other students play 
guitar on the quad, paint a portrait or 
produce a movie, because these people 
are doing what they love, and they will 
never face the moment where they will 
have to stop doing it because they physi­
cally can't anymore. 
For many years, playing football and 
baseball competitively was my outlet. I 
worked hours daily towards making 
myself a better player in each sport, and I 
loved every minute of it — well, almost. 
But once I reached college, I reached a 
point where I could no longer do what I 
love. I wasn’t big enough to play football 
anymore, and wasn’t talented enough to 
play baseball. And just like that, the mode 
in which I defined and expressed myself 
for my entire life was gone. I felt lost. That 
is, until I found writing. 
Humans have thousands of thoughts 
per day (some even estimate it as high as 
55,000), and each of those is an opportu­
nity; an opportunity to discuss, or ponder, 
or argue, even if it is just with yourself. 
Writing things out as a stream of con­
sciousness, or a message board post or a 
column — any of these serves as a medi­
um in which you can express how you 
feel. Through these, you can convey hap­
piness, anger or excitement. 
Writing is extremely versatile, as well. A 
writer can be as creative or as blunt as he 
wants to be. He can be verbose or brief, 
funny or serious, symbolic or literal. And 
it is for this reason that I chose to express 
myself through a newspaper column. 
My second reason for writing is that I want to make people think. I don’t neces­sarily want them to think like I do, or even agree with me. But what I do want is for them to take some time to reflect and look at themselves and the world around them. It is extremely easy to go through the daily routine mindlessly, and I am sure that we have all done it. I challenge that. I don’t want that to happen. There are so many opportunities throughout the day for thought and for growth. 
It is funny, no column that I have ever written has turned out exactly like I had planned. I start with an idea, a basic con­cept that I want to write about, that I want people to think about. I usually have a message that I want to get across. But as I am writing, I am also thinking. And sometimes, those new thoughts take me off-course and into a direction that I never had even considered. By the end, the col­umn is barely recognizable as compared to what I had intended. However, to me, that is the beauty of writing. By putting your thoughts into a medium, it forces you to analyze them, and you can end up dis­covering more about yourself than you ever wanted to know. And, hopefully, if I have gotten even one person to think a lit­tle deeper about their life, then I have done my job. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Love during times of tragedy 
To our Notre Dame community, 
On March 26 a tragedy befell our fami­ly. While traveling home from Spring Break with three friends, our youngest brother and best friend Riley was struck head on by an opposing vehicle — all four died almost instantly. Riley was only 18 years old. 
In the wake of this awful news our fam­ily came together to grieve. In the shock and horror of those first few days we clung tightly to one another, and as we mourned — and mourn still — we have witnessed unimaginable kindness, warmth and compassion. 
The same evening that Indiana State Trooper came to our front door to deliver the news, friends from Notre Dame were visiting our home. They held us in their arms as our legs failed beneath us; they wept with us as rage overcame us; and as we needed time to be alone they were already making calls, and candles were being lit at the grotto. 
In the days that followed, close friends and roommates made it their business to care for us. They stayed with us, they ran errands, they babysat and they helped with chores, missing classes and work of their own. 
From around the country other close 
POLL OF THE WEEK 
What are you planning for the Blue and Gold game? Go to the game Who cares about football? Drink all day Study for final exams Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
ndsmcobserver.com 

friends from Notre Dame made their way to our home — from New York, Chicago and Cleveland. as well as South Bend. Father Ed and Ed Mack from O’Neill Hall visited to console us and accompany us to the viewing. Those who could not come in person sent cards, letters, emails, texts, flowers, food and so much love. 
At Riley’s funeral there were flowers from the Notre Dame football team and coach, the athletic director, the cheer team and dozens of other alumni. The Mass found our small town church filled beyond capacity — the largest gathering in our parish’s history — and mourners included dozens of our friends from Notre Dame, students and alumni who coordi­nated rides and carpooled en masse to be there. Father Foster of the Notre Dame College of Science even came to concele­brate. 
Since the funeral we have experienced nothing but kindness and love from our extended Notre Dame family. Professors have been patient and kind, and class­mates have helped in every way possible. The calls and emails and support have not ceased as the tragedy has been fading from headlines, and life for many others has been carrying on. 
These past days have made us so deeply endeared, grateful to and proud of the University of Notre Dame. Never could we be made to feel that we are supported by a larger family than at a time such as this. While Riley never went to Notre Dame, with two older brothers and a sis-ter-in-law as alumni he grew up in the shadow of Our Lady. He spent his spring breaks in the halls of O’Neill playing video games and going to classes. Saturdays in the fall found him tailgating by the old band tower, trolling the bookstore for the new “The Shirt,” and praying at the Grotto. When Donny and Crystal were married at the Basilica in August of 2008, Riley served as the best man. He loved Notre Dame. 

Yesterday, as we wept and lit candles at the grotto we prayed to Our Lady for strength to endure these most difficult times. It is in each friend’s steady embrace, the kind words of professors, rectors and loved ones, and through every silent prayer that such strength is deliv­ered. We thank you all — each of you who has been a vessel of such grace for us. 
The Zimmer Family 
classes of 2011, 2004, and 2009 South Bend, IN Apr. 10 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The greatest enemy of knowledgeis not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.” 
Stephen HawkingEnglish cosmologist and physicist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 12, 2011 page 7 
Voulez vous faire la guerre avec moi ce soir? 
The French are not known to be a war­ring people, despite Napoleon, WWI and French involvement in Francophone Africa. They have the reputation in main­stream America as cigarette smoking, baguette and 
cheese lovers who  Elie Elian  
needed bailing out in WWII. In  Guest Columnist  
reality, the  
French have  

proven themselves to be quite the fighting force under President Sarkozy. 
Today, for the first time in the nation’s history, they are involved in three wars across the globe: in Afghanistan, the Ivory Coast and Libya. They were the first to drop bombs on Libya, they are working to overthrow Laurent Gbagbo, who refuses to step down as president of the Ivory Coast after losing the election, and they are fighting alongside NATO forces in Afghanistan. This level of military activity would usually shock the French public, but France has taken America’s queue on international wars: never fight them alone. Not only is France fighting under the banner of the U.N. in the Ivory Coast and NATO in Afghanistan and Libya, but they claim to be fighting in the name of “saving lives.” It is reasonable to assume that the French public would be resistant to the new aggression; however, the IFOP (L’Institut Français d’Opinion Publique) has found that 65 percent of the French public support French involvement in Libya. While this statistic might indicate a “rally ’round the flag” effect in the French public, it is most revealing when com­pared to the American public perception of our Libya involvement. 
According to Gallup, only 47 percent of Americans support military involvement in Libya. This is the lowest approval rat­ing for any military action in U.S. history. In fact it was the only military action with a minority of Americans in support. I think this might be the only time in history where the French public supported a war more than the American public. Is it we who have become numb to our warring ways or have the French become more eager to fight? 
It is clear that during the Arab revolu­tions in Tunisia and Egypt, the French government and Sarkozy were very slow to react, and in many cases reacted inap­propriately. Regarding Tunisia, former foreign minister Michèle Alliot-Marie made a public suggestion during her vacation in Tunisia that France should send riot police to support the regime and quell the pro-democracy protests. To many, France’s prompt and aggressive reaction in Libya and Ivory Coast is Sarkozy’s way of making up for France’s mistakes regarding Egypt and Tunisia. It is also posited that this is an attempt for Sarkozy to prop up his approval rating for next year’s election. What is evident is that the French people are reacting posi­tively to France’s new stance in protecting democracy and the innocent. Therefore, it seems that the high approval ratings regarding Libya can be credited to France’s use of the U.N. and NATO, as well as their mission to protect the unpro­tected, to justify military action. 

These justifications can also be used to support U.S. involvement in Libya; howev­er, U.S. public support for the intervention is significantly lower than historic support for military action. Even though U.S. and NATO intentions can be questioned in this conflict, the only comprehensive explana­tion of this trend is a change in the American attitudes towards military inter­vention. The U.S. has involved itself in war with more questionable motives in the past with higher approval ratings. Public support for military intervention in Afghanistan and Iraq has steadily decreased since the start of the wars and is recently at its lowest levels. Perhaps the American public is fed up with the contin­uous U.S. presence in Middle Eastern con­flicts. 
It seems that this distaste with aggres­sive foreign policy explains the low public support for military action in Libya. This distaste is understandable, but it is also dangerous. While Afghanistan and Iraq have left a bitter taste in the mouths of most Americans, this mustn’t cloud our judgment regarding the appropriate use of force. When a dictator uses indiscrimi­nate force against his people because they demand freedom, we have a right to inter­vene, especially when the U.N. requests it. 
Indeed, this war is arguably one of the most justifiable wars we have fought in recent times, and yet it has the least amount of backing from the American people. We should not let our trials in Iraq and Afghanistan dissuade us from waging war. They should inform us when consid­ering war. While the American people might be fed up with war, we mustn’t resort to an isolationist attitude. We must continue to engage the world, taking what we have learned in Iraq and Afghanistan into consideration. I believe our actions in Libya are sign of this maturation; howev­er, the majority of the American people don’t. This is a concerning trend. Perhaps we should take a queue from the French this time and be more eager to fight the good fight next time. 
Of course, defining the good fight is a whole other kettle of fish. 
Elie Elian is a sophomore political sci­ence and Arabic major. He can be reached at eelian@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The other lover 

Don’t be afraid to talk 
Caitlin Housley (Apr. 8) admitted to the world that she and Jimmy John’s were hav­ing an affair. Caitlin said that she was so ashamed by his unabashed affection that she hung her head as she handed him $6 for her #12, no avocado. 
Therein lies the real confession: Caitlin didn’t tip her delivery driver. The Beach Club, with delivery fees, costs exactly $6 so if she shyly handed “John or Rob” $6, then she failed to tip John or Rob — a man (or woman) who is paid less than minimum wage hourly, only earns 5 percent of the dol­lar amount of his delivery orders (so on this order, only 30 cents) and has to put mileage on his own car and fill up his tank with gas that costs nearly $4 per gallon. And in the wonderful state of Indiana where there are no break laws for adults, it’s a distinct possi­bility that Caitlin’s lover has been working for over eight hours and has yet to take a break or eat. Perhaps a little communication between Caitlin and Jimmy John would’ve revealed that it’s astonishingly inconsiderate to fail to tip someone who brings you food for a living. 
If it wasn’t obvious, I’m a Jimmy John’s delivery driver. I’d like to preface by saying that most Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s stu­dents tip — but the fact remains that of the customers who do not tip, the majority come from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross which is blood boiling to say the least. The economic and social privilege of a Notre Dame, St. Mary’s or Holy Cross student is unfathomable. By virtue of the fact that you have a roof over your head and are receiv­ing a world-class education, you are wealth­ier and more successful than 99 percent of the entire world. 
The fact that you would begrudge some­one an extra dollar or two is, to put it blunt­ly, a disgrace and it shows a complete igno­rance of your own privilege. It might be frustrating to pay $7 for a $5 sandwich, but if you don’t want to, don’t buy it. Walk to the dining hall, walk to Recker’s, walk off cam­pus. Don’t force someone who makes less than minimum wage, who relies on your tips, to drive to your very doorstep and then refuse them a tip. That is not proper behav­ior for someone educated at one of the world’s finest Catholic universities. 
For all of the Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students who tip generously: I thank you tremendously. You pay my rent. More importantly, you pay the rent of my co­workers, many of whom have multiple jobs and children for whom to provide. For those of you who don’t tip your drivers, start tip­ping them. Failure to do so brings shame upon you, the schools which have educated you and your families. 
Mary C. Young 
graduate student off campus Apr. 10 

Thank you for publishing the editorial “We, as a community, need to talk” last Friday (Apr. 9). Things like depression and sexual assault are so personal — most people do not know how to talk about them. I still have trouble talking about depression, even though I had a friend attempt suicide in high school. After Sean’s death I wanted to write in, but I did not know what to say. However, I have realized it does not matter if I say the perfect thing. What matters is that I say something. 
Much of what I heard after Sean’s death was about how suicide is rare at Notre Dame. Yes, it is rare here, but sui­cide and depression are not absent on campus, and suicide is preventable. My dad told me in high school, “Suicide is a permanent solution to a temporary problem.” It is an act that cannot be reversed. Our community has lost Sean forever. 
However, Notre Dame can learn from Sean’s death. We cannot bring him back, but we might be able to show someone else, another member of our community who is struggling, that they are loved. We can open a dialogue on this issue, since it is an issue that every­one can relate to. We all feel sad some­times. I know I have, but I managed to find strength through the support of my friends and family to get through those times. I am so grateful for that strength. Life is full of surprises and can change so quickly. As dark as it sometimes seems, it gets so much better. 
So to all my friends here on campus, please know that I love all of you and appreciate your friendship more than I can express. To all those people I do not know on campus, I care about you too. I wish all the happiness in the world for you. So please, if you are feeling sad, depressed, down, lonely, stressed or all of the above, don’t be afraid to talk to someone. Chances are they need to talk to someone as well. 
Claire Mattison 
sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall Apr. 11 


Twisting the Trojan knife 
Adam, Adam, Adam. 
By now I’m sure you are aware that many people may find it hard to appreciate your prodigious love for the Trojans (Apr. 11). However, though I do not particularly like USC either, I cannot blame you for choosing the team you did. Though Notre Dame football’s proud tradition of excellence and integrity becomes a part of many students’ lives during our time here, the urge to root for the home team is a strong one. I myself am a lifelong Fightin’ Blue Hens fan (that’s Delaware, by the way), and I must admit that occasionally I find myself torn between these two proud teams. 
Nonetheless, without the opportunity to go surfing and eat at In-N-Out Burger, football becomes one of life’s biggest pleasures during the brisk South Bend autumn. There aren’t even any good sledding hills around here, but I digress. It is sufficient to say that football is kind of a big deal. My only criticism of your column is that you could have explained your position a bit more tactfully. For example, the October 2005 game is, for many people, one of the most painful defeats in recent history. So you can understand the frustration when you refer to the “Bush Push” as Matt Leinart “valiantly plunging” into the end zone. Or when you mention that this heart wrenching, controversial loss was the only time you’ve ever prayed for divine intervention in football. This would be like telling a Red Sox fan how fervently you prayed for the ball to pass through Bill Buckner’s legs during game six of the World Series. At times, the column feels a bit like apologizing for stabbing someone, while still twisting the knife. So please forgive those who judge you for describing “the fas­cinating events of October 15, 2005” in such glowing terms. 

That being said, I really don’t like USC. So maybe I am judging you a bit. Sorry I’m not sorry. And, as always, GO IRISH, BEAT TROJANS! 
Dave Skorup 
junior Carroll Hall Apr. 11 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, April 12, 2011 

take clothing or identification with him will be able to learn from Niffenegger how published in book form in September By MARIELLE HAMPE while he time travels leaves him helpless to participate in an ever-changing artistic 2010. She is currently working on her Scene Writer and dependent on his survival skills. The world,” Aguirre said. third novel, “The Chinchilla Girl in Exile.” Audrey Niffenegger, author of the inter-intersection of Clare and Niffenegger is most recog­Niffenegger’s creativity and experience nationally bestselling novel “The Time Henry’s life is not ordi­nized for her as an artist allows her to challenge the tra­Traveler’s Wife,” will conclude this year’s nary, and Niffenegger’s novel, but has ditional bounds of fiction writing to pro-ND Literary Festival Wednesday. A book edgy style compliment-enjoyed success in duce exquisitely woven and original sto­signing will follow Niffenegger’s speech, ed by themes of love, other fields as ries. Whether you are a fan of and copies of “The Time Traveler’s Wife” death, sex and time well. Niffenegger Niffenegger’s skills or just want to learn will be available for purchase at the event. make “The Time is a professor and more about the creation of Clare and “The Time Traveler’s Wife” won the Traveler’s Wife” a sus­has produced Henry and how their entangled adventure 2005 Exclusive Books Boeke Prize and a penseful and exciting numerous draw-ends, stop by Jordan Hall of Science 2006 British Book Award. The novel was read. ings, paintings, Wednesday at 7 p.m. to enjoy Niffenegger’s published in 2003, and a film version star-Audrey Niffenegger prints and visual speech. ring Rachel McAdams and Eric Bana was is a perfect guest for books. She helped released in 2009. The novel has sold over NDLF,” senior Felicia found 
the Columbia Contact Marielle Hampe at five million copies and has been translated Aguirre, chair of the College Chicago mhampe@nd.edu into 33 languages. Literary Festival said. Center for Book and “The Time Traveler’s Wife” is a love “She is a popular and Paper Arts, and was story about a female artist, Clare, and her entertaining writer, a professor at husband, Henry, who has a genetic disor­but she also has a Columbia College’s On campusder that causes him to time travel unpre­unique and interest-MFA program in dictably. Henry first meets Clare when he ing writing style. Interdisciplinary is 28 and she is 20, but Clare meets Henry “In a world where Book and Paper Arts. What: Speech and book signing byfor the first time when she is six and Henry art seems unstable, She is now on the Audrey Niffenegger, author of “The is 36. Henry is involuntarily pulled to ran-Audrey Niffenegger faculty of the Time Traveler’s Wife” dom moments in the past, present or fights for tradition. Columbia College Where: Jordan Hall of Science, future, and Clare’s linear and normal ado-She is both an artist and a Fiction Writing Room 105 lescence is dotted with memories of Henry writer, and produces hand-painted books. Department. When: Wednesday, April 13, appearing to her from different moments In fact, when Niffenegger originally got the Recent works by Niffenegger include the 7-8 p.m.How much: Free in time. idea for ‘The Time Traveler’s Wife,’ it came novel “Her Fearful Symmetry,” released in Learn more: audreyniffenegger.com Clare struggles with the turmoil of to her just as a title on her sketchpad. She 2009, and “The Night Bookmobile,” a seri­always being the one left behind to wait for soon figured out it would make a better alized graphic novel that originally Henry to reappear, and Henry’s inability to novel than a picture book. I think students appeared in the London Guardian and was 
 
Scene Around the World Social Media Going abroad? Chronicle Follow Scene on Facebook and Twitter to your travels in a photo hear about our latest coverage of campusslideshow or video and entertainment and pop culture at large.send your clip to Scene. We’ll post it on The Observer website and a preview will appear in the Scene section of the print edition. Email Interim Scene Editor Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu for more information, or check out ndsmcobserver.com/scene to see other student’s videos.  

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, April 12, 2011 page 9 


By COURTNEY COX 
Associate Scene Editor 
John Hughes’s movies do the impossible — they make audiences feel nostalgic for high school, an extremely difficult task. With “The Breakfast Club,” “Pretty in Pink” and “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off,” DeBartolo Performing Arts Center’s midnight movie series will bring the best of the 80’s back to Notre Dame. 
“The Breakfast Club” is the quin­tessential tale of teenage angst and follows five high school students who are sentenced to serve a Saturday in detention. Set in the library of their school, the students bond with each other and recognize that they have more in common than they could does not come from the same kind of money as Blane, her crush. 
The varying amounts of money the two have keep them from being together. In the end, however, love prevails (as it always does) and Blane and Andie share a romantic moment at the most important social event of anyone’s high school career 
— prom. 
It isn’t only about high school petti­ness, though. It explores the real dif­ficulties that can occur when families struggle to make ends meet. Andie’s father buys her a pink dress for prom she knows he can’t afford. It is a painful moment when the two fight over their financial well-being. “Pretty in Pink” is both touching and extremely in-touch with the issues 
adolescents 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
For those looking for a unique new album this year, look no further. 
Glitch-hop producer and instru­mental electronic musician A.M. Breakups, also known as M. Mielnick, recently released his debut album “The Cant Resurrection.” According to his web­site ambreakups.com, this album is a “reflection of environment, acquain­tances and circumstances.” 
The 24-year-old indie-rap artist is from Utica, N.Y. and has been per­forming for years. He started with MC Eleven as the duo 11 A.M., and has a strong local following and devoted online fan base. He has col­laborated with other artists in the genre, including Teddy Falet, Super Chron Flight Brothers, Sasa and K-Swift. 
His influences include dirt, Chi-Rock nation, Backwoodz Studios, Uncommon Records, interrupt expansion, Komadose, B.O.S. Skwad Records and expired Polaroid film, according to his Facebook page. He considers his genre of music to be hip-hip, electronic and abstract. “The Cant Resurrection” continues Backwoodz Studioz’s tradi­tion of progressive, critically acclaimed indie hip-hop from New York. 
All songs on the album are written, produced and mixed by A.M. Breakups himself, and he recorded most with Reservoir Sound Womb. The album was recorded between 2006 and 2009. 
According to the album cover, this LP has been hailed to “have stark production, heavy with layers and texture and interspersed with verses from some of this new millennium’s most promising indie talent.” Appearances by other artists on the album include Teddy Faley, V8, Eleven, Billy Woods, DJ Dyllemma, Bedtime9, Model Citizen and Shotrock. 
The album includes an intriguing mix of typical instrumental music, techno music, and vocals. Overall, the album keeps the listener engaged with the movement of the beat, often changing between songs or in the middle of songs. Shorter songs are mixed in between longer songs, sometimes serving as a break or cleansing of the palate between diverse types of music. 
The tone and feel of the songs varies throughout the album and within individual songs. Percussion sounds and beats play an important role to the pace and its changes. Different techno sounds work with more traditional instrumental sounds (like piano, strings and percussion) to form the melody that evolves from song to song. 
The vocal performances of the many different artists featured on the album bring another layer of diversi­ty to the music. Distant, background vocals with steady, aggressive, Eminem-esque rapping is scattered across the album. While some songs strongly feature the rapping, others use distorted or altered vocals as part of the beat in the background. 
“The Cant Resurrection” has dark, unsettling songs as well as pleasant, easy-listening ones. Techno audio mixes with, changes and sometimes competes against the vocals and other instrumentals. A.M. Breakups’ use of electronic music sounds for­eign, calming, troubling, agreeable, confusing or chaotic, depending on the song. Recognizable instrumental audio is also used in multiple ways, serving as a pacemaker and provid­ing a simple melody or a dramatic undercurrent to each song. 
The rapping talents are used well, allowing a message to appear through the lyrics. The vocals are never too over-bearing and fit well into the unique and varying music behind them. 
For a listener looking for some­thing new, “The Cant Resurrection” is an interesting and refreshing mix of rap, indie and techno. Though per­haps not the most revolutionary or impressive album of the year so far, it is worth a listen. Changing and diverse, the music has an assortment of sounds to offer to an open-minded music lover. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


have imag-
face, beyond ined. finding the right The movie date to prom. also depicts One simply the most cannot discuss prevalent high John Hughes’s school stereo-films without types. Versions referencing the of the cliques immensely in “The popular Breakfast Club” “ F e r r i s still appear in Bueller’s Day sitcoms and Off.” The other high movie is an school movies ode to today. teenage 
The end of the rebellion at movie aptly its finest. It defines each follows individual. In Bueller as he writing a letter cleverly to the principal manages to of the school they skip class say, “You see us and quite as you want to li terally see us …In the parade simplest terms around the and the most con-city of Chicago. 
venient defini ­tions. But what we found out is that each one of us is a brain, and an ath­lete, and a basket case, a princess and a criminal.” 
The best part of the movie is that it doesn’t use these stereotypes to set up easy antagonists to a story line, as so many films do today. Instead, the movie starts with the assumed stereotype of each individual and shatters it. No person in the group can be easily defined by one word. 
“Pretty in Pink” explores the effect of money on high school social inter­actions and gains new insight each time it is retold. In “Pretty in Pink,” Andie, played by Molly Ringwald, It is above all a film about seizing the opportunity to do things that one can only do while young. As Bueller famously says “Life moves pretty fast. If you don’t stop and look around once in a while, you could miss it.” 
John Hughes captures the most awkward moments of being a teenager and gives them an artful appreciation that not many others have succeeded at doing. Catch his greatest hits at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in the com­ing weeks. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 12, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s volleyball takes second in National Championship 
Gymnastics competes in national meet; cycling completes regular season 
This past weekend, the Irish defense with five steals. of UCLA, Sacramento State, 
Special to The Observer 

Gymnastics Club of Notre Dame Women’s Water Polo Lizzie Gormley won three swim Bates, University of California – 
Notre Dame entered the and Saint Mary’s made the long The Irish traveled to Oxford, offs for the Irish. Santa Barbara, University of National Championship tourna-trip down to Richmond for the Ohio, this weekend to compete California – Davis, and Loyola ment as the No.13 seed overall, NAIGC national competition. in the Miami Invite at the Women’s Boxing Marymount to earn a spot in the one of the highest in team histo-The meet, held in the Greater University of Miami of Ohio. The Club president and captain Grand Finals Sunday morning. ry. This was just the start of Richmond Convention Center, Irish began their weekend with Anna Dwyer competed in the In the Grand Finals, the Irish something truly spectacular. was host to 129 teams from all a strong 15-7 victory over the prestigious Chicago Gold Gloves had a rough start, placing them The Irish were the highest No. 2 over the country. The Irish, who Hoosiers from Indiana over the weekend. Dwyer an early boat length down to seed, and in Thursday’s pool competed in the fourth of six University. claimed the title trophy in her field leaders University of play, managed a 2-1 record, sessions, performed well in The Irish started off slow, but division to the great satisfaction British Columbia and Drexel defeating Wisconsin and their last meet of the season. regained their strength at the of her many fans and admirers University. Arizona State before falling in The women’s squad, com-end of the first quarter with an on campus. However, the first varsity fin-three games to Cal-Poly to win prised of Kristin Smith, Sarah exclusion goal from Ali Durkin. ished strong, making a series of the pool and advance to the Cole, Bryanna Bocardo and Durkin led the offense with five Women’s Equestrian moves over the next 1000m and power pool play on Friday, Kelsey Teske, posted especially goals from the hole set. Maisie The Notre Dame and Saint finishing with a sprint in third where winning and losing deter-strong scores on vault with O’Malley and Victoria Anglin Mary’s Equestrian Team trav-place with a time of 6:19.67, mines who advances to the gold scores of 7.9, 8.0, 7.8 and 8.45, helped put points on the board eled to Dousman, Wis., over the less than two seconds behind bracket to compete for the top respectively. Teske, in her first with four goals each and Lizzie weekend to compete in both Drexel. UBC won the event, and prize. appearance at Nationals Gormley added two. Kasia Regionals and Zones. Katie Oklahoma City, University of 
On Friday, the Irish faced showed impressive skill as she Ahern set the tone of the Irish Walsh took first in open fences California – Irvine and UCLA California and UC-Santa placed 25th in the session. defense with four steals in the at Regionals Saturday. Amy finished fourth, fifth and sixth, Barbara, winning the matches On the men’s side, Patrick field. Giordano took third in both respectively. 25-17, 25-21 and 25-18, 25-22, Gorman was the lone qualifier. After a long break, the Irish intermediate flat and fences. In the Grand Finals for the respectively. This launched the Gorman posted a strong score came back strong with a 14-5 Nicole Oberschmied and Laura second varsity boat on Sunday Irish into the Gold bracket. on vault of 12.0 and was able to victory over Purdue University. Tiche completed their collegiate morning, California quickly 
As the 5th overall seed in the place 26th all-around in session Eileen Flanagan and Sarah careers with fifth place show-established itself as the top Gold bracket, the Irish faced four and 68th overall in the all-Fleming split time in the net to ings in their classes. crew. The Irish rowed well, but Fresno State, ranked No. 1 in around competition. The Irish help lead the Irish to victory. Whitney Preisser qualified for placed sixth overall in the finals the country for most of the sea-now look forward to the 2011-O’Malley led the offense with Zones on Sunday, sweeping her with a time of 6:22.20. The son. In dominating fashion, the 2012 season, which is especially five goals, Durkin added three, class and taking first place. On California “A” boat won the Irish beat Fresno in two games, promising considering the Gormley and Colleen Middleton Saturday, the University of event, followed by Stanford, 25-19 and 25-23, to advance to plethora of young talent on the had two and Danielle Guidry Wisconsin-Madison took first California “B,” Oregon State and the Elite 8, thus securing the team. and Rosemary Kelley each place, and Notre Dame and the University of California – best finish in team history. added one goal. The unstop-Saint Mary’s took second place, San Diego. 
However, the Irish weren’t Cycling pable Irish defense was led by followed by University of The third place finish by the done yet. The Irish next squared The cycling team traveled to Gormley, who proved her out-Wisconsin-Lacrosse in third.On first varsity boat in the Grand off against UC-San Diego, a Michigan State Saturday for a standing defense in the field Sunday at Zones, Preisser fin-Finals was the highest finish at strong opponent hailing from morning road race and an after-with five steals. ished her year with 10th in the Crew Classic in the team’s talent rich southern California. noon time trial. Rob Piscatelli The Irish started off Sunday novice flat. history. In one of the most exciting led the men’s D team with an with a decisive 15-1 victory over Walsh garnered a third in matches of the tournament, the 11th place finish. Ohio University. open fences and a first in Women’s Rugby Irish defeated UCSD, 25-17, 20-Men’s “C” put two in the top The Irish displayed their stel-Cacchion class. As the Cacchion In their final home game of 25, 15-11. It was a huge win for ten with Andrew O’Donnell in lar offense once again with 11 rider for the region, Walsh will the year and their last game the Irish, who were set to face sixth and Brian Hurley crossing players scoring in the game. go to nationals May 5 to 7 at the before the national tournament, the Cinderella story Illinois the line in eighth. Freshman Durkin, Savannah Hayes, K. Kentucky Horse Park in the Irish defeated Ball State State for the opportunity to play Josh Corcoran wasn’t far behind Ahern and Victoria Ahern each Lexington, Ky. University this Saturday 112-0. for the national championship. in 13th. had two goals for the Irish. The Irish fielded 22 players and Notre Dame came out swinging, Four Notre Dame riders start-Danielle Guidry, O’Malley, Mary Men’s Rowing even had some of their players and thumped the Redbirds 25-ed the 60-mile men’s “A” race Kate Fidler, Gormley, Middleton, The Notre Dame first and sec-play part of the game with Ball 16, 25-15 to advance to the and Joe Magro notched his sec-Adi Austgen and Anastasia ond varsity eights traveled to State, as they only had 15 play-national championship game ond top-10 finish of the season, Hansen each added one. San Diego last Thursday to ers. against perennial powerhouse, moving into first place in the D-Fleming and Mary Fanslow split compete in the San Diego Crew The Irish got on the score-UW-Oshkosh. II individual rankings. The Irish time in the net controlling the Classic over the weekend. board quickly and continued to 
Behind the powerful swings rode extremely well in the 5.5-outstanding defense to lead the The racing began early dominate every contact point, and monster blocks of Rob mile afternoon time trial. Irish to victory. Saturday morning for the Irish winning almost every scrum. Bauer and Kevin Padden, both O’Donnell went out early and The final game of the week-when the first varsity boat com-One of the Irish’s team goals of whom were named first team set a fast time, good enough to end was a tough 10-2 loss to peted in the American Specialty during the game was to make All-Americans, the Irish won win the “C” category. By the end rivals from the University of Health Cal Cup’s racing heats. sure that the backs had for-the first game 25-21. This was of the day, only five riders in Michigan. The Irish had a slow The crew, coxed by Greg Obee, wards supporting them. The not enough, however, as UW-any category had surpassed his start in the first quarter, putting with Garrett Campbell, Greg Irish greatly improved in this Oshkosh’s jump serves proved time. Both Corcoran and Hurley them behind Michigan 4-0. Flood, Michael Maggart, Brent support during the game. to be too much for the Irish to finished in the top-5 of “C” in Despite drawing several ejec-Shawcross, Cliff Roberts, Tim They also made it a goal to get handle, who lost the next two third and fifth, respectively. tions, six from Ali Durkin, the Parks, Sean Gibbons and fewer penalties for things like games 25-12 and 15-10. With the regular season com-Irish were unable to convert Michael Wagner from stroke to off sides and not rolling away. 
Though the Irish fell just short plete, Notre Dame heads into these opportunities into points. bow, was seeded first in the They had much fewer penalties of the ultimate goal of a nation-the conference championships Maisie O’Malley was able to get heat. They got off to an early than they have previously and al championship, finishing as at St. Louis leading the D-II a point on the board for the lead in the first 500m, and in never got called for the same the second best team in the team category by a sizable mar-Irish with a goal in the second the middle of the race held off penalty twice in a row. The Irish country is a huge step forward gin. Magro also leads the men’s quarter. moves by UCLA and Sacramento are looking forward to playing for the program. individual rankings while Jenn The Irish scored again on a State. Mesa State in their first game of 
Perricone has locked up the fast break by Durkin in the The Irish won the heat with a the national tournament next Gymnastics individual women’s title. fourth quarter. O’Malley led the time of 6:05.10, placing ahead Saturday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Home in Clay Twship-less than 3mi to ND. $75K. 2BR 1BA. Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30 pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, nice deck and firepit. Wood heat. New furnace and water heater. Low taxes. Call 574­261-2357 
———————————————— 
NOTICES 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
———————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
———————————————— 
PERSONAL 

THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA-­enchanting and unforgettable! Read this wonderful stage play on Kindle @ Amazon.com, under Books! 
———————————————— 
Karen: So, we have all night, where do you wanna go first? Jim Halpert: I donno. How ‘bout the U.N.? Karen: How often do you come here? Jim Halpert: Um, everytime my sixth grade class goes on a field trip. Karen: Well I think you’re really going to enjoy this, adult Jim. 
———————————————— 
Happy 21st Birthday to my little baby, Cristin Shaughnessy! -Love, A 
———————————————— 

Tuesday, April 12, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NBA 
Miami locks up No. 2 seed 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — LeBron James scored 34 points and Miami locked up the No. 2 seed in the Eastern Conference with a 98-90 win over the Atlanta Hawks, who nearly rallied from a 20-point deficit while going with their backups against the Big Three in the fourth quarter Monday night. 
Miami played its starters all the way, looking to clinch the second spot behind Chicago in the East. Shortly after beating the Hawks, the Heat got the news they wanted: third-place Boston lost at Washington in overtime. 
The Hawks, who are locked into the fifth seed, went to a makeshift lineup for the final period and almost pulled it off. 
The game turned ugly with 3½ minutes to go. Atlanta's Zaza Pachulia powered inside for a basket. Zydrunas Ilgauskas took exception to the move and slammed the ball off Pachulia's back as he turned to head back down the court. 
Ilgauskas was ejected, and the Hawks hit the technical free throw to tie it at 88. But Miami outscored the Hawks 10-2 the rest of the way, with James Jones making two huge 3-pointers — including one that turned into a four-play when he was fouled by a leap­ing Josh Powell, sending both players flying out of bounds. 
The Hawks pulled their starters for the fourth quarter. Pachulia, Powell, Jamal Crawford, Jeff Teague and Damien Wilkins held their 
NBA 

Celtics rest top four, fall to Wizards in OT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Even in a game that went to overtime, the most interesting spectacle was the quartet of Kevin Garnett, Ray Allen, Paul Pierce and Rajon Rondo sitting on the Boston Celtics’ bench. 
The Celtics were making a statement: The Miami Heat can have second place. It was­n’t worth fighting for anymore. Coach Doc Rivers decreed that a few days of rest for his vet­eran starters would be a big­ger priority than trying to climb one rung in the stand­ings in the season’s final days. 
Boston’s leftovers made a game of it, losing 95-94 Monday night to the lottery-bound Washington Wizards . The result, along with Miami’s 98-90 win over the Atlanta Hawks , guaranteed that the Heat will be the No. 2 seed in the Eastern Conference while the Celtics will be No. 3, draw­ing a first-round playoff matchup with the sixth-seeded New York Knicks . 
Rivers called it a difficult decision to sit his stars, one that involved everyone from general manager Danny Ainge on down, and one that surely will leave him open to second-guessing if the results fall a certain way. 
“I usually don’t seek out — it comes from me all the time — but this was one where I asked a lot of questions to some play­ers, all our coaches, to Danny, so this was a tough one, but this was the right one,” Rivers said. “At the end of the day for us, it’s got to be right for our team and whatever’s best for our team, even over seeding.” 
Rivers said his mind was made up after the Celtics were blown out 100-77 by the Heat on Sunday, a loss that put Boston behind Miami in the race for second. The coach will also sit the bulk of his top players in Wednesday’s regu­lar season finale against the Knicks, giving his veterans a three-day mental break to set them up for three good days of practices Thursday through Saturday before the playoffs start. 

own, actually outscoring 
Miami 23-19. 
It wasn't enough. 
Bosh drew a charging foul on Powell with just over a minute left, and James clinched it with his final bas­ket of the night. The Big Three combined for 70 points, with Dwyane Wade adding 21 — the bulk of his scoring coming in the first half — and Bosh adding 15. 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 12, 2011 
MLB 

Surging Rangers dominate Martinez, Tigers 
Martinez, though, said it’s 
Associated Press 
too early to be frustrated. 
DETROIT — To Victor “We’ll see what happens at Martinez, the Texas ploy the end of the year,” he said. made perfect sense. Alexi Ogando outpitched 
The Rangers chose to have Justin Verlander before leav­closer Neftali Feliz intention-ing with a finger problem to ally walk Miguel Cabrera help the defending AL cham­with two outs in the ninth pions improved to 9-1, main-inning, even though it meant taining the majors ’ top bringing Martinez to the record and matching the best plate as the potential win-10-game start in team histo­ning run. ry. 
The Detroit newcomer Michael Young and Mitch grounded out Moreland hit with two run-RBI doubles ners on base in the sev ­Monday, fin -enth inning ishing off the as Texas 
“We’ll see what 
Tigers ’ 2-0 equaled the 
happens at the end of 
loss to the start of its 
the year.” 
Rangers. 1989 club. Martinez Ogando (2­
Victor Martinez 
wasn ’t sur -0) gave up 
Tigers catcher 
prised by just two hits, Texas manag-walked one er Ron and struck Washington’s four over bold strategy to pitch around seven innings in his second Cabrera. start in the majors. The con­
“He’s been swinging the bat verted reliever had his out-good and I haven ’t been ing cut short by fluid under a swinging the bat good at all,” callus on his right index fin-the four-time All-Star said. ger after pitching six score­“They took a chance on me.” less innings last week with a 
The former Boston Red Sox developing blister on the and Cleveland Indians stand-same finger. out is hitting just .225, mak-Ogando expects to make his ing $12 million in the first next start. season of a $50 million, four-Texas reliever Darren year deal he signed with Oliver gave up a hit in the Detroit to primarily be its eighth. Feliz finished for his designated hitter. fourth save in as many chances after retiring two batters and allowing Ryan Raburn to double, bringing up Cabrera. 
Verlander (1-1) lost despite pitching a six-hitter, striking out four and walking one in a 119-pitch performance. 
“It’s terribly disappointing for me,” he said. “I think it’s terribly disappointing for the team. 
Verlander was perfect until Josh Hamilton hit a two-out single in the fourth inning. Hamilton walked with one out in the seventh, scored on Young’s double off the right-field wall and Moreland fol­lowed with a two-out double off the same wall to make it 2-0. 
“He was great, ” Young said. “He’s always a hand­ful.” 
Detroit had its best chance to score in the fourth when Cabrera became the second player younger than 28 to hit his 300th double, according to STATS LLC, but that didn’t mean much to him after another defeat. 
“We lost the game, ” Cabrera said. 
His hit in the fourth put two on with one out, but Martinez’s bloop to shallow left field turned into an inning -ending double play when shortstop Elvis Andrus caught the ball and the 27­year-old Cabrera couldn’t beat the throw back to sec­ond base. 


Tigers manager Jim Leyland planned to give slumping center fielder Austin Jackson the day off, but used him as a pinch-hit­ter in the eighth when Magglio Ordonez came out of the game with tightness in his right Achilles’ tendon. Ordonez missed games earli­er this season with a stiff surgically repaired right ankle. 
Leyland plans to sit him out at least a couple games. 
“We’re not going to go day to day and get him right,” Leyland said. 
Jackson hit a leadoff single, but was stranded after Oliver got Jhonny Peralta to foul out, Alex Avila to strike out and Brandon Inge to fly out. 
Detroit fell to 3-7, needing victories in the next two games to win its first series in a season that started with relatively high hopes, after failing to make Washington’s gamble backfire. 
“I give them a lot of cred­it,” Leyland said. “I was cer­tainly very comfortable with Victor in that position.” 
Campbell 
continued from page 16 
2-1) will be the first step in that journey. While the Scots are by no means a powerhouse in the conference, they carry several talented players, including the sister combo of junior Jen and sophomore Katie Meloche. Jen has played regularly at No. 1 singles for the team this year while Katie is undefeated in conference singles matches. 
“Alma’s not typically one of our strongest conference oppo­nents, but I know they want to beat us, and I know they’ll come out strong and ready to play,” Campbell said. 
The Belles will be challenged across the board in singles, where Saint Mary’s only won at two spots over the weekend. Campbell believes the game will be decided in a familiar spot, however — the doubles game. 
“We’ve really made the dou­bles game a point of emphasis for this matchup,” he said. “That’s where I’m really expecting us to come out strong tomorrow.” 
Saint Mary’s and the Scots square off today at 4 p.m. in Alma, Mich. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
NFL 
Miles anticipates a Super Bowl in Indy 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Mark Miles doesn’t expect the NFL’s lockout to be settled until at least this summer. 
The 2012 Super Bowl host committee chairman is still moving ahead, as scheduled, with his plans. 
As the countdown to February’s Super Bowl hit 300 days Monday, Miles described the progress made over the last three months and addressed the one issue everyone is asking 
— whether the lockout could scuttle the city’s first Super Bowl. 
“There are probably scenar­ios where you may miss some preseason games and you may even miss some regular-season games and the league officials will have to define what consti­tutes a season for them,” Miles said. “So we’re doing our thing and we are doing what needs to be done and not let it (the lock­out) become a distraction.” 
With $35 million of construc­tion projects under way on the city’s near east side, another major construction project in full throttle downtown and 60 committees trying to fine-tune details, the host committee is busy. 


Tuesday, April 12, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NFL 
Judge orders mediation 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — The NFL and its locked-out players have been ordered to start talking again. 
The federal judge handling the lawsuit against the league told both sides Monday they will participate in court-super­vised mediation, saying she still is considering whether to grant the players’ request to lift the lockout that’s been in place for a month. 
The players got their wish, with the talks held in the fed­eral courts in Minnesota rather than the collective bar­gaining setting where the two sides unsuccessfully met last month. 
U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson said formal mediation will begin Thursday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan at his office in the Minneapolis federal court­house. Boylan will meet with representatives for the players Tuesday, then representatives of the NFL on Wednesday. 
The sides tried mediation before, negotiating for 16 days in Washington with Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service director George Cohen. Those talks broke off on March 11, and the old collective bar­gaining agreement expired. 
The NFL Players Association dissolved that day, saying it no longer would represent play­ers in bargaining under labor law. That allowed players — including MVP quarterbacks Tom Brady and Peyton Manning — to file a class-action antitrust suit against the league in federal court here. The owners then locked out the players, creating the NFL’s first work stoppage since 1987. 
Nelson ordered Monday that both sides keep the mediation confidential. 
NFLPA spokesman George Atallah declined comment as did NFL spokesman Greg Aiello. Neither party would divulge who will be attending the session this week. 
At a hearing last week about the injunction request, Nelson urged the sides to get “back to the table” and said negotia­tions should take place at “not the players’ table, not the league’s table, but a neutral table, if you will.” 
The next day, the players and owners both expressed a willingness to talk, though they disagreed on where and how they wanted to do it. The play­ers said they were willing to engage in mediation overseen by Nelson. The NFL said it wanted to resume talks with Cohen in Washington. 
Nelson said at the hearing she would take “a couple of weeks” to rule on the injunc­tion. On Monday, she noted that her order to resume medi­ation “will not have the effect of a stay on this litigation,” and that she would rule “in due course.” 
Nelson’s order called for legal counsel for the parties “as well as a party representa­tive having full authority” to attend. She also said that par­ticipation in the mediation “and any communications con­veyed between the parties in this process, shall not be admitted or used against any party in any other proceeding or forum, for any purpose.” 

That would appear to address the players’ concern that any talks held after the dissolution of the union could be construed as collective bar­gaining — and thus bolster the NFL’s clam that the dissolution was a “sham” merely intended to strengthen the players’ posi­tion at the bargaining table. 
Last week, NFL executive vice president Jeffrey Pash sent a letter to a lawyer repre­senting the players, James Quinn, with a copy going to Nelson. Pash wrote that the league is “prepared to give reasonable and appropriate assurances” that the players’ legal position — not a union protected by labor laws but a group of players suing under antitrust laws — would not be compromised through any new talks. 
Nelson’s order referred to the mediation “as a form of Alternative Dispute Resolution,” a legal and in this case euphemistic term for the revival of negotiations. Perhaps it will lead to some real progress. Or maybe it’s more like marriage counsel­ing, simply getting two disput­ing parties back in the room together. 
MLB 

Jury continues to deliberate in Bonds trial 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Barry Bonds is going to have a longer wait for his verdict. 
The jury considering four felony counts against the home run king deliberated without a conclusion for the second day Monday. The eight women and four men, who started their discus ­sions on Friday before a weekend break, will resume work Tuesday morning. 
The gap between closing arguments and verdict has grown longer than the gap between Bonds’ record-tying and record-breaking home runs in 2007. The former MVP broke Hank Aaron ’s home run record on Aug. 7 when he hit No. 756, three days after matching Aaron. 
Bonds, who also holds the single -season home run mark of 73, is charged with three counts of making false statements to a grand jury in 2003 and one count of obstruction of justice. He’s accused of lying when he denied receiving steroids and human growth hormone from personal trainer Greg Anderson, and for saying he allowed only doctors to give him an injection. 
For those trying to get a peek into the jury ’s thoughts, the panel has made requests to rehear two pieces of evidence that both center on the injection count. 
On Friday, the jurors asked to hear a replay of the 2003 secret recording made by former Bonds business part­ner Steve Hoskins in which Anderson talks about inject­ing the slugger. Before the resumption of deliberations Monday, the panel spent 71 minutes hearing a clerk read back the March 31 testimony of Bonds’ former personal shopper Kathy Hoskins — Steve’s sister. She testified that she saw Anderson inject Bonds near the navel in 2002, becoming the only one of 25 witnesses at the trial to claim firsthand knowledge of Bonds being injected. 
“This was very damaging testimony that contrasted starkly with his denials of steroid use that are the heart of this perjury case,” said legal observer Joshua Berman, a former prosecu­tor who is now a criminal defense attorney in Washington D.C. 
However, it’s impossible to discern how many of the 12 jurors are focusing on that testimony and whether they feel the injection answer was material, or in layman’s terms, important, to the grand jury’s investigation. To convict Bonds of making a false statement, the jury must find both that what Bonds said was a lie and one that had an effect on the grand jury. 
Anderson was jailed dur­ing the trial because he refused to testify. No wit ­nesses said they personally saw Bonds receive drugs — Kathy Hoskins said she did not ask what was in the syringe Anderson used on Bonds. 
Now 46, Bonds testified before the grand jury that he never knowingly used per­formance-enhancing drugs, and that Anderson told him he was using flaxseed oil and arthritic balm — not designer steroids that were undetectable at the time. 
Most of the jurors scrib­bled notes when Hoskins’ testimony about the injection was read back. Bonds, wear­ing a dark suit, white shirt and blue tie, kept an eye on the jurors during early por­tions of the reading, then focused on the clerk. 
Just before the jury fin ­ished for the day at 3:45 
p.m., lead Bonds lawyer Allen Ruby was in the hall­way outside the courtroom, wondering when delibera­tions would be recessed. 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 12, 2011 
Usher 
continued from page 16 
NCAA tournament at the end of May, but should be side­lined for over a month. 
“Tom’s injury is obviously a big loss for us, but we have to have a next-man-in mentali­ty,” Kubinski said. “I’m confi­dent that we have people who will step up.” 
Kubinski expects senior Connor Alan-Lee to move into his top five for at least the four to six weeks that Usher will be out. 
“[Alan-Lee] has been playing great recently, averaging around 72 or 73,” Kubinski said. “We played a qualifying round the other day, and he finished second.” 
The Irish will play at home after weeks of traveling. Warren opened just last week, but the team has already been out on the course twice. After a frustrating string of mediocre tournament finishes, Kubinksi hopes that the friendly confines will serve the team well. 
“The guys have played this course a lot, and that can only help us,” Kubinski said. “It’s always nice to play at home. The guys are actually going to class tomorrow.” 
The Battle at the Warren will tee off today at 12:30 p.m. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
we always look forward to because they are one of our toughest opponents throughout the year.” 
The team is looking forward to the weekend for personal rea­sons as well. 
“[This weekend] is our Strikeout Cancer series, which supports the awareness and search for a cure for pediatric leukemia, which our coach’s daughter was diagnosed with this summer,” Clay said. “We have a lot of silent auction items for which all the proceeds go to cancer care and research, and a homerun derby after the games, plus a bounce house and fun games.” 
Despite the anticipation for the upcoming weekend, the Irish remain focused on the task at hand, namely continuing their winning streak when conference play resumes Saturday. 
Sharp defense, consistent pitching by Winter and a bal­anced offensive attack will be key as the squad takes on Bowling Green tomorrow at 4 p.m. and 6 
p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
Honors 
continued from page 16 

Laura Winter was named Big East Pitcher of the Week Monday for the first time in her career. 
Johnson improved her current hitting streak to 15 games this weekend, going 10-for-19 with eight RBIs and two homers for an impressive .895 slugging per­centage over the past week. A 
2010 All-Big East selection, Johnson has not struck out in 19 at-bats and has struck out just seven times in 106 at-bats this season. 
Standing at 6­foot-1, Winter had an equally impressive week, giving up only 13 hits in 18 innings consistently work on keeping the positive 

“We were in a energy going.” 
good place to start, It is with that went through some enthusiasm that things, and are in the Irish are an even better place approaching Big 
now.” East play next weekend with a 
Alexia Clay 
three -game senior catcher series against Louisville. “Louisville is always a tough 


with a whopping 24 strikeouts. She allowed just three earned runs on the week for a 1.17 ERA, one of the notable tallies that earned her the honor of Big East Pitcher of the Week. 
Selner 
continued from page 16 

or uncomfortable at times,” Sullivan said. “We need to stop thinking and go up and hit.” 
Saint Mary’s has struggled against Franklin in the past, falling to the Grizzlies both times the teams met last 
With the freshman and senior leading the way on their respec­tive sides of the ball, the Irish are hoping to roll through contests against Bowling Green (4-21) and Loyola Chicago (15-15) on their home turf this week. Regardless of the team’s recent success, Notre Dame still has specific goals in mind. 
“We will still be focusing on manufacturing runs, not leaving runners on base and strong defense,” Clay said. “We also 
team and are doing really well this year,” Clay said. “We can definitely sweep [the Cardinals], but it will be tough, so a large display of fan support would really help. Louisville is a game 
year. This year, Sullivan anticipates an easier game. 
“They were a much stronger team last year,” Sullivan said. “[Now] they are young and scrappy. They play hard and want to win.” 
One concern Sullivan has is the Grizzlies’ new coach, a recent Saint Mary’s graduate and softball player. 
“They have an added mem­ber to their coaching staff this year, Cathy Kurczak, a standout player for our soft­ball team from 2007-2009,” Sullivan said. “There will be a lot of emotion during this game.” 
The Belles take the field today at 3:45 p.m. against the Grizzlies in Franklin, Ind. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Tuesday, April 12, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


HENRI ARNOLD

SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
JUMBLE
THE MATING RITUAL 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, April 12, 2011 page 16 
ND SOFTBALL 

Flying against the Falcons 
ND carries nine-game winning streak into double-header against Bowling Green 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

The Irish celebrate senior Alexia Clay’s home run during Notre Dame’s 5-0 win over Butler April 7. Notre Dame 
has won nine straight games since falling to Western Michigan March 29. 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
The difference between the nine-game winning streak that began Notre Dame’s season and the one the squad will look to extend in tomorrow’s double­header against Bowling Green is simple — this time around, the Irish know what it is like to lose. 
“I don’t think the streaks are much different in terms of how we feel,” senior catcher Alexia Clay said. “The ball was rolling then and it is still rolling now. I guess the difference is the games between the streaks. Every team has to go through some learning experiences and some hardships.” 
Those hardships include a pair of losses in early March to cut short Notre Dame’s record-setting season start and a 2-4 Spring Break loss at the Judi Garman Classic in Fullerton, Calif., that left the squad disappointed, but with 

SMC TENNIS  MEN’S GOLF  
Saint Mary’s travels  Irish host fnal tournament  
to Alma for road tilt  Notre Dame loses top golfer Usher for Battle at the Warren today  

By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
The Belles face crunch time as they travel to Alma tonight to compete in the first of four final conference matches before the MIAA champi­onships. Standing at .500 in conference play, Saint Mary’s hopes to end the season on a strong note. 
The Belles (9-6, 2-2 MIAA) traveled to Michigan to take on conference rival Hope College Saturday looking for a win, but fell 7-2. The Flying Dutch proved too powerful for Saint Mary’s, especially in the dou­bles competition, where they won all three matches by four games or more. Belles coach Dale Campbell has emphasized improving doubles play all year, and after Saturday’s result, he increased his efforts in practice to work on that cru­cial aspect. 
“In the doubles game, we need to be aggressive in both the serve game and return game,” Campbell said. “We have to attack the net more, and continue to stay on the offensive. That’s what we’ve been working on for the past couple of days.” 
Moving ahead in their sched­ule, the Belles will head into the homestretch of their regu­lar season slate. With such a small number of conference teams still left to face, each game is critical for Saint Mary’s standing and seeding in the conference. While Campbell wouldn’t deny the importance of seeding for the conference championships, he insisted that his focus is on the continued strong play of his team. 
“It’s important for seeding, sure,” he said. “But at the same time, it’s more important to keep improving, to play well strategically and to continue to get better for the tournament.” 
Tonight’s match at Alma (6-7, 
see CAMPBELL/page 12 
the knowledge that it has the tal­ent to compete with top teams. 
Clay said that while losing is never easy, it has aided the Irish squad and promoted team growth. 
“Those [hardships] are what help you grow, help you become tougher and help you be better,” she said. “We were in a good place to start, went through some things and are in an even better place now. The team is really starting to run on all cylinders.” 

The Irish (26-7, 5-0 Big East) have only gained momentum in recent games. Over the weekend, the team had a dominating per­formance at Syracuse that kept it undefeated in Big East play. Notre Dame has had a commanding presence in the Big East of late, as senior third baseman Heather Johnson earned Big East Player of the Week honors for the second straight week. Freshman pitcher 
see HONORS/page 14 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Struggling Belles take on Franklin 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Coming off three consecu­tive losses, the Belles will travel to Franklin College today for a doubleheader. Saint Mary’s has had a rough season since Spring Break and now has an overall record of 11-10 (1-5 MIAA). 
The Belles have made a few adjustments in practice to combat their tough begin­ning. 
“It’s tough to give every­thing you have and not end up on the winning end of the game, ” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “We are going to go back to the reason we are all playing this game and how we care about the peo­ple rather than the outcome.” 
Freshman pitcher Callie Selner said her team is trying to toughen up mentally for the upcoming games. 
“Our team has mentally prepared ourselves better by being more confident and 
p i c k i n g  e a c h  o t h e r  u p , ”  
Selner said.  
T h e  B e l l e s ,  w h o  p r i d e  

themselves on being a strong hitting team, are focusing on that aspect of play now, espe­cially since their at-bats have suffered since the start of conference play. 
“We are swinging the bat, but it looks either tentative 
see SELNER/page 14 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 

The Irish have just one tournament left to play before they travel to Palm Harbor, Fla., next Monday for the Big East championships, where they hope to be the top seed. 
The Irish will host the Battle at the Warren at Notre Dame’s very own Warren Golf Course today. 
Appalachian State, Detroit, Oakland and Bradley have made the trip to South Bend for the tournament, which Irish coach James Kubinski sees as a crucial round before the conference tournament next week. 
“This should be a good tune-up for our guys. We’re pretty much guaranteed the No. 1 seed, but we have to get ready for the weekend down in Tampa,” Kubinski said. 
The road to victory, both at the Battle and at the Big East championships, got tougher for the Irish yesterday when tion in 2010 and has already junior No. 1 golfer Tom Usher taken home Player of the broke his hand while lifting Week honors this spring. He weights. Though he struggled is expected to return by the last weekend at the LSU time the Irish compete in the Invitational, Usher was an All-Big East conference selec-see USHER/page 14 






