the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students cheer on NFL teams 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
On a night featuring two prestigious teams in profes­sional sports battling on the field, big budget commercials and a rocking half time show, the Green Bay Packers defeat­ed the Pittsburgh Steelers 31­25 in Super Bowl XLV. 
Sophomore Packers fan Sam Mitchell said he felt pure ecsta­sy following the Packer’s victo­ry. 
“It is just exuberance,” Mitchell said. “It was a tremendous game, but the best team won, and congrats to Green Bay.” 
Mitchell said the triumph was particularly sweet because of the low expectations for the No. 6 seeded Packers. 
“We overcame so much adversity over the course of the season. Some injuries, a lot of people counted us out in the middle of the season,” he said. “We stayed focus and we knew could do it.” 
Junior Steelers fan Nick 
see BOWL/page 5 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 

A Phishing scam infiltrated Notre Dame G-mail accounts and sent massive amounts of spam from nd.edu addresses, the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) reported Tuesday in an e-mail to the student body. 
The scam blocked nd.edu users from e-mailing hotmail.com users. OIT admin­istrators are communicating with hotmail to lift the blocks, and OIT recommended using alternate communication with hotmail users, the e-mail said. 
The e-mail warned that other e-mail services may be blocking ND e-mails for the same reason. 
“Over the weekend, spam­mers compromised several [Notre Dame] NetIDs and used those accounts to send thou­sands of spam e-mail mes­sages,” the e-mail said. 
“Spammers most likely gained control over these accounts when the account owners responded to a phishing scam by providing their NetID and password.” 
The OIT Helpdesk helped students who were hacked by the phishing scam, David Seidl, manager of information secu­rity for OIT, said. 
When OIT discovered the scam, Seidl said the office 
see SCAM/page 5 
Lyphout plans June retirement 
Observer Staff Report 
James Lyphout, Notre Dame’s vice president for Business Operations, will retire in June, according to a University press release. 
Lyphout is the University’s longest-serving current officer. Notre D a me ’s Board of Tr ustees elected him vice presi­dent in 1999. He also served as assistant vice president for Business Affairs from 1984 to 1996 and as associate vice president for busi­ness operations from 1996 to 1999. 
In his current position, Lyphout oversees campus infrastructure and construction projects, the Office of Sustainability, campus operations and most auxiliary campus operations such as food services, the Hammes Notre 
see OFFICER/page 5 


Late night events support Special Olympics 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Hundreds of Notre Dame stu­dents and staff members gath­ered for a night of athletic competition and philanthropy Saturday at the 25th annual Late Night Olympics. 
The RecSports-sponsored event, which raised funds for Special Olympics of St. Joseph County, offered students the opportunity to compete for their residence halls in a vari­ety of athletic contests, includ­ing broomball, dodgeball, kayaking, water polo and vol­leyball. Students also compet­ed in women’s and men’s bas­ketball, racquetball and table tennis, and an inflatable obsta­cle course was a new addition to the event roster this year. 
“We try to plan an event that we think students would like to participate in to help Special Olympics,” RecSports coordi­nator of special events and family programs Tim Novak said. “Notre Dame students have a competitive nature, so sports are a good way for stu­dents to do something extracurricular on the week­end while supporting Special Olympics.” 
The main attraction of the event was the traditional bas­ketball game between local Special Olympians and mem­bers of the Notre Dame staff — a rivalry in which the Special Olympians have prevailed for 25 consecutive years. This year, the Special Olympians beat the Notre Dame all-stars 46-20. 
“This is a big event that the Special Olympians look for­ward to every year,” Novak said. “The joy they have on their faces when they partici­pate is indescribable.” 
Novak said Late Night Olympics provides an outlet for students and Special Olympians to interact. 
“It’s hard to describe why 

see NIGHT/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC Disabilities Awareness Week page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Greil Marcus at Notre Dame page 10  Men’s basketball page 20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, February 7, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Meaghan Veselik Nicole Toczauer Mike Todisco Caitlin Housley Vicky Jacobsen 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Ankur Chawla Photo Courtney Cox Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
How did you spend Saturday night? Zweber-Langer: At the Band Dance, living it up 
Are you watching the Super Bowl? Zweber-Langer: No. I don’t real­ly watch that. 
Is spring coming early? Zweber-Langer: I hope not — I’m a winter person. 
Who is better: Batman or Spiderman? Zweber-Langer: Batman, by far. Spiderman is kind of a pansy. 
What is the best thing about winter? Zweber-Langer: The snow of course! 
Which is a more romantic date: North or South Dining Hall? Zweber-Langer: North. I work there, so I guess I have to go with that. 

Albany Zweber-Langer 
freshm an Farley 


JULIE HERDER/The Observer Notre Dame fans buy posters and calendars at the Notre Dame versus Rutgers basketball game Sunday. All proceeds from the sale were donated to the Coaches 
v. Cancer fund. 
OFFBEAT 

Australia’s Packers fan returns to United States 
DALLAS — The man who might be Australia’s great­est Green Bay Packers fan has returned to the United States to watch his team play in the Super Bowl. Back in 2007, Wayne Scullino quit his job as a sales executive for a telecommunications com­pany and sold his home in Sydney to pay for a year of following the Packers. His story made him famous among faithful cheese-heads. Scullino says he kept in touch with hundreds of them over the Internet. Now he’s reconnected with a few in person in Dallas. He has ticket provided by a 
Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture “How Do Bad Songs Become Beloved? Stories of Bad Songs: Bob Dylan’s Masters of War” is tonight at 
5:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The lecture will be presented by Greil Marcus. It is free and open to the public. 
The seminar, “Joint Estimation of Multiple Graphical Models” is today at 4 
p.m. in room 129 of the Hayes-Healy Center. The seminar will be conducted by Jian Guo of the University of Michigan. 
Research Assistant Reneta Dimitrova will present the next installment in the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar series entitled “Numerical Modeling of Atmospheric Flow and Air Quality in Urban Areas” Tuesday. The seminar is in room 258 in the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering at 11 a.m. 
Siegfried Hall’s Annual Day of Man will be all day Wednesday. The men of Siegfried will be sta­tioned on campus in shorts and flip-flops. They will be taking donations to benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Free body composition and blood pressure testing will be given at noon Wednesday in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Registration is avaliable through RecRegister. 
Monica Mody, the 2010 Nicholas Sparks Prize winner, will read a selection of her work in the Hammes Bookstore Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. The reading is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 

Packers fan who had an extra one. Scullino says if the Packers win, he’ll fly back to Green Bay for the victory parade before flying home. 
Real-life steelers asked to work Super Bowl day 
CLAIRTON, Pa. — It’s only natural that Pittsburgh-area steelwork­ers would want to watch the Pittsburgh Steelers in Sunday’s Super Bowl. 
But a U.S. Steel memo says workers in the Clairton, Irvin and Edgar Thomson mills who miss work Sunday or Monday “without just cause” will face “severe disciplinary action.” 
The United Steelworkers union has criticized the memo. A U.S. Steel spokes­woman tells the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that the com­pany doesn’t comment on employee relations. 
The newspaper says USW International vice president Tom Conway responded to the memo with an e-mail — in black-and-gold type, the Steelers’ colors — that suggested adjusting schedules so vol­unteers who don’t want to watch the game can work during it. Conway suggest­ed lost production during Sunday’s 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. shift could be made up later. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday 



Monday, February 7, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC dedicates week to disabilities awareness 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board (SDB) will be holding a Disabilities Awareness Week this week. 
Events will be held daily, including Di sabiliti es 
There is a showing of “I am Sam” Tuesday in Vander Vennet at 8 p.m. with refreshments provided, Quatman said. 
On Wednesday, Josh Diehl, professor of psychology at Notre Dame, will give a lec­ture on Autism in Vander 
Vannet at 
p.m. An SDB 
Awa r ene s s “We hope to Gives Back to Activities Table the Dining Hall 
encourage sensitivity
from 11 a.m. to Staff night is 2 p.m. in the about what it’s truly Thursday. A Student Center like to be a person Di sabiliti es Atrium today. Awareness
with disabilities in a
“The purpose table will be set 
of Disabilities society that does not up Friday in Awa r ene s s fully embrace their the Student Week is to Center atrium, 
capabilities.” 
make people Quatman said. aware that According to there are dis -Adrienne Quatman Qautman, abilities all chair bracelets will around us, be sold in the 
Students with Disabilities 
whether the disabilities are physical or learning disabili­ties, ” senior Adrienne Quatman, Students With Disabilities chair, said. 


Student Center 
atrium all week for $1. Proceeds will go to the Children’s Tumor Foundation. 
The week is one of SDB’s annual events and it grows from year to year. 
“This is one of our annual events that we have had since the board was created,” Quatman said. “We have expanded on it, and each year it is different depending on who the board’s chair is. This year we have chosen to focus on a variety of disabili­ties.” 
According to Quatman, the goal of the week is to bring understanding to the variety of disabilities that exist. 
“We would like to make everyone aware of what it is like to have a disability and promote the understand­ing of the challenges that people with disabilities face,” she said. 
More than raising aware­ness, she said they also hope to bring a respect for those who have a disability. 
“We hope to encourage sen­sitivity about what it’s truly like to be a person with dis­abilities in a society that does not fully embrace their capa­bilities,” Quatman said. “We also really wanted to publi­cize the Disabilities Center provided at Saint Mary’s.” 
Quatman said this follows SDB’s goal of showing the value of all diversity on cam­pus. 
“SDB recognizes that every person is diverse and con­tributes to making our com­munity a better place,” she said. “Disabilities Awareness Week relates to our mission in that the events we promote emphasize equality and rec­ognize the value of all peo­ples.” 
All events are open to everyone on campus. 
“Everyone is encouraged to come to all of our events,” she said. “We also hope that people are aware of the Disabilities Center on Saint Mary’s campus. There will be more information about it at our Disabilities Awareness table in the Atrium all next week.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 7, 2011 
OIT presents enhanced classroom in DeBartolo Hall 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
In the basement of DeBartolo Hall, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) is testing new gadgets for an educational set­ting, and the office held an open house Friday to show students a new, technology-based classroom. 
“This room lends itself to more collaborative, interactive type classes,” Paul Turner, manager of academic technology, said. “We wanted the room to be radically different.” 
There is no designated front of the classroom, Turner said. It is also completely wireless and can be rearranged to fit any techno­logical need. 
Turner said that the classroom is not discipline-specific, but rather more based in the profes­sor’s teaching style. 
“We wanted a room that was completely flexible, and so far, so good,” Turner said, “We can test new technologies in the lab and then implement them in the classroom.” 
One example of technology implementation is the use of iPads in classrooms, but Turner said this is not the only project OIT is working on bringing to campus. 


The open house featured vari­ous technologies including Microsoft Surface, Xbox Kinect and some projects with Sprint. 
The Microsoft Surface is a multi-touch surface that multiple users can manipulate at one time. Turner said the College of Science was one of the first to utilize the technology and the University will probably get more in the future. 
The Xbox Kinect is another technology in the testing phase. 
“[The Xbox] Kinect is just fun,” Turner said. “It’s like the Wii [video game system], but without the remote.” 
Kinect tracks your movement instead of relying on a handheld controller of some sort. OIT wants to eventually implement this tech­nology into a classroom setting, Turner said. 
Junior Ben Keller has also worked on new technology for OIT — taking high quality panoramic photographs. He said he traveled to Rome with the School of Architecture for the project. 
“We use a gigapan, [which is] a robotic base that rotates and takes pictures in sequence,” he said. “Then we can put the pic­tures together and create one big image.” 
Sophomore Bridget Curran said she enjoyed working in OIT with the new technologies on campus. 
“The people we work with here are really great,” Curran said. “It’s pretty cool to play with an iPad the day it comes out. No more waiting in line at the Apple store.” 
Some new technology is being tested in cooperation with Sprint mobile. One project is with the Samsung Galaxy Tab, the Android equivalent of the iPad, Kevin Abbot, an educational tech­nology professional in OIT, said. 
“The Galaxy Tab is an open resource that can pretty much do anything,” Abbot said. 
Notre Dame is also working on ND ID with Sprint, which is a service for cell phones that plugs into Notre Dame specific apps. 
“If you open your Gmail on your phone, it goes to your University e-mail address,” Abbot said. 
This technology is already available but not many people know about it, Abbot said. 
Abbot said OIT hopes to move to a completely e-book campus. When that happens, the campus will move to a 4G wireless net­work to handle all the Internet traffic. 
“We would have a 4G network that is super fast, so anywhere on campus, you can use your e-book or search the web,” Abbot said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


support Special Olympics. competition results were “Lewis loves events like this unavailable at press time. 
Night 
because we get to dress up and have fun,” Sticha said. 

continued from page 1 Contact Kristen Durbin at 
“Lewis has an excellent histo­
kdurbin@nd.edu 

you help Special Olympics ry of athletics, and we enjoyed because you kind of have to competing, watching the bas-experience it,” Novak said. ketball game and doing the “The students penny war who have the last year.” 
opportunity “We’re try­
“It’s hard to describe why 
to meet some ing to make a 
of these ath-you help Special comeback to letes know Olympics because you win this year, how big of a so we’re 
kind of have to
difference it going hard,” 
experience it.” 
makes in the Speltz said. lives of the “It’s also good athletes.” that the 
Tim Novak 
St udents dorms can 
coordinator
who partici-come together 
RecSports 
pated in the to help event agreed Special it was a fun Olympics.” way to spend In addition time with friends while aiding to making a personal differ-a worthwhile cause. ence in the lives of Special 
“It’s a really cool event with Olympians, Late Night a good atmosphere,” Carroll Olympics also makes an Hall dodgeball team member impact on the financial well Steve Zerfas, a freshman, being of Special Olympics of said. “Even though we lost St. Joseph County. A $1 dona-really fast, it’s okay because tion was required for entry it’s for a good cause.” into the event, and T-shirts 
Freshman Neal Ravindra were sold for $5 each. enjoyed competing in the “A lot of Special Olympics obstacle course and volleyball communities around the coun­for Stanford try have had and Farley to cut their 
Halls in his “It’s a really cool event programs due first Late with a good atmosphere.” to rapidly N i g h t decreasing Olympics. donations, ” 
Tim Novak 
“It’s a good Novak said. way to relax coordinator “Luckily, St. and have fun RecSports Joseph County with friends, has not had to and the cancel any music created a good mood,” events in the last two years, Ravindra said. “Plus, it was and they’re part of a small fun to do something with girls’ group of Special Olympics dorms.” groups that haven’t made cut-
Defending their 2010 sec-backs.” ond-place title, Lewis Hall Novak said RecSports was sophomores Taylor Sticha and aiming to reach the $8,000 Sydney Speltz competed to win mark in donations, but the the overall competition and to final fundraising and dorm 


Monday, February 7, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
weird tradition if you think 
about it. We eat a ton of food 
Bowl 

while we watch big dudes run continued from page 1 around in spandex,” she said. 
“At the same time, it’s so 
Grasberger said while the great and classic American.” game was fun to watch, the Senior Ian Heraty said he Pittsburgh loss was a tough enjoyed the competitive action pill to swallow. on the field, despite not being 
“It was fun [to watch]. There a fan of either team. was no one I would rather “I’m glad it was a good have then Ben game. It seemed like [Roethlisberger] at the end of Pittsburgh was out of it but the game, but it wasn’t our they did a good job of coming year, I guess,” he said. back.” 
Despite the loss, Grasberger Sophomore Patty Walsh said said he expects the Steelers to she hoped for a Steelers win. 
fair better next  As  a  Chicago  
season. He also  Bears fan, she  
said Pittsburgh  said she is not  
remains  the  fond of either  
top NFL fran­chise in terms of Super Bowl victories.  “It makes it super intense. I feel like I am a part of it. I have  team. “I loathe the Steelers slightly less, so I’m  
“We’re going to win next year,” he said.  been preparing for it all day.”  rooting against the Packers,” Walsh said.  
“We  have  six  “The only way  
[Super Bowls]. [Green Bay]  Sara Teising junior  I’d really be happy is if they  

has four.” 
Junior Sara Teising said watching the Packers, her favorite team, in the big game made for a special Super Bowl experience. 
“It makes it super intense. I feel like I am part of it. I have been preparing for it all day,” she said. “I’m watching with friends at a house and eating food. We’ve been looking for­ward to this.” 
Teising said being a Green Bay fan runs in her family’s blood. 
“My grandpa was a Packers fan, so there is some senti­mentality to watching. He taught me well.” 
Sophomore Emily Hefferon said she enjoyed watching the Super Bowl for the social experience it entailed. 
“The Super Bowl is such a both lost.” 
When it came 
to entertain­
ment for the 

show, Walsh said she was surprised at how the commercials failed to entertain her. 
“I think because [the game] is projected to have some of the highest viewership ever for anything on television, a lot is riding on the commer­cials and they have not been up to snuff,” she said. “Maybe they should have paid their creative teams more.” 
Sophomore Margaret Bellon said while she was not a fan of either team, she was drawn to watch for other reasons. 
“I always like watching foot­ball, but both of these teams aren't my favorite, so I don't really have that much of an interest in this game,” she said. “I am enjoying watching the commercials though.” 
Junior John Rozema said he was also drawn to the game for the commercials. He said the off field conduct of Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, who was sus­pended earlier in the season for violating the NFL’s person­al conduct policy, drew him to root for Green Bay. 
“Honestly, I’m really just watching for the commercials. I have no particular attach­ment to either team,” he said. “My only opinion is that I don’t care for Roethlisberger for obvious reasons, so I guess, go Packers.” 
In addition to the commer­cials, students watching the game had mixed feelings about the halftime perform­ers, the Black Eyed Peas. Bellon said she was surprised they performed at the game. 
“I am usually excited for the halftime show but I don’t real­ly know why they chose the Black Eyed Peas,” she said. 
Heraty said while the music of the Black Eyed Peas did not hold much appeal to him, the group made up with their the­atricality. He said their back­up dancers with light-up cos­tumes were especially enter­taining. 
“There were a lot of ele­ments of the performance that were significantly better than the music,” he said. “Basically, I liked the glow-people.” 
Hefferon said regardless of why one watched the game, the Super Bowl is a bonding event for students and America overall. 
“Whether you are watching for the football or the com­mercials or because everyone else is, you’re still participat­ing in an awesome and unique experience,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Offcer 
continued from page 1 
services, the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and the Morris Inn. He also manages Notre Dame’s London Centre, the Keough-Notre Dame study Centre in Dublin and the Hank Environmental Research Center at Land .
“Jim Lyphout has 
O’Lakes, Wis. “During my “Jim Lyphout provided outstanding tenure, I have 
has provided leadership to the enjoyed being 
outstanding an integral 
essential services that
leadership to part of the 
the essential comprise the University’s remarkable services that core infrastructure.” growth in cam-comprise the pus building University ’s space of more 
John Affeck-Graves 
core infra-than 20 per-structure, ” executive vice president cent. This 
Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said in the press release. “During his tenure, our student dining services have consistently been rated among the finest in the country, our campus planning and construction programs are held up as best examples of the application of gothic architecture in an academic environment, and we have continued to enhance the natural beauty of our campus through our tree planting and campus landscaping projects.” 
As vice president for Business 
Scam 
continued from page 1 
responded to protect the Notre Dame network and e-mail accounts. 
“We blocked access to the site from campus, preventing people who clicked the link from accessing the site,” he said. “We sent messages specifically reminding campus users about the phishing attacks and Operations, Lyphout has over­seen around 20 construction projects, the ongoing renewal of Notre Dame Stadium, several renovation projects and the clo­sure of Juniper Road through campus. 
“It has been my privilege and honor to serve for the last 27 years as a member of the University administration,” 
Lyphout said in 
the press 
release 
growth was 
guided by the 
campus master plan, crafted by a wonderful team of colleagues and designed to direct all future development of campus.” 
Lyphout is a native of East Moline, Ill. He earned both bach­elor’s and master’s degrees from Western Illinois University, served in the U.S. Army from 1970 to 1972 and worked at Northwestern University before coming to Notre Dame. He and his wife, Rose have two sons who are Notre Dame graduates. 
request your password or account information by e-mail,” he said. “Second, be cautious of any URL that asks for your Net ID and password does not end with nd.edu. Third, type URLs manually rather than clicking on them. 
“You can also usually see the URL that link is hiding by hover­ing your mouse over it to see what the link actually is.” 
Phishing sites pose as secure websites and request personal 
information 
from visitors, 


what not to  “Our system  i n c l u d i n g  
do.”  administrators are  u s e r nam e s ,  
The OIT staff also checked for  typically able to remedy this quickly, and our  p a s s w o r d s , bank account numbers and  
systems that c o n t a c t e d the phishing site so they  campus e-mail servers are configured to prevent this from being a significant  credit card n u m b e r s . Phishers then use that user- 
could notify  issue in most cases.”  name  and  
s  y  s  t  e  m  password to  
administra­tors whose users had visited it.  David Seidl manager of Information Security OIT  log into the campus e­mail system to send span  
“When we  e-mail, Seidl  
discover  a  said.  The  

compromised account being scammers used the Notre Dame exploited, our first step is to Outlook Web Access (OWA) to have the Helpdesk change the send the spam e-mails. password and lock the account “The high volume of mail sent so the spammer can no longer by spammers in this type of use it,” he said. “They then try to event can result in our campus contact the account owner to let e-mail servers being blacklisted, them know, but often do not blocked, by major email 
have a tele­phone num­ber to do so, “You can also usually see 
and obvious-the URL that link is hiding
ly they no 
by hovering your mouse
longer can access their over it to see what the link 
e-mail.” actually is.” Without a 
phone num-
David Seidl 
ber, Seidl said OIT manager of Information Security 
must wait for OIT the nd.edu user to dis­cover the problem and contact his or her administrator. 
Seidl said Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and staff can pre­vent phishing by taking a few preventative steps. 
“First, remember that the OIT, Notre Dame or any other legiti­mate organization will never providers like Hotmail and Yahoo,” he said. “Our system administra­tors are typi­cally able to remedy this quickly, and our campus e-mail servers are config­ured to pre­vent this from 
being a significant issue in most cases.” 
More information about phish­ing scams can be found at http://oit.nd.edu/email/phishing­faq.shtml 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, February 7, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Experiences here and there 
After an agonizing morning that must have greatly amused the staff at the Office of International Studies, accept­ances to the 2011-12 study abroad pro­gram were sent out this past Friday afternoon. And I found out that at this time next year, I will be studying at John Cabot University in Rome. 
Obviously, I was beyond thrilled. I began to picture an entire semester Melissa living in a city so Flanagan rich in culture and 


News 
history, as well as 

Production 
the other cities 
Editor 

and countries I plan to visit. And of course, the food alone is reason enough to go. But after the initial shock and excitement began to wear off, I couldn’t help but think about the fact that I’ll be spending an entire semester, one-eighth of my time here, away from Notre Dame. As I reflected on this, the amount of things I would miss began to pile up in my head. 
First and most overwhelming is the people. My roommate was accepted to the London Program for Fall 2011, and considering she and I live over 700 miles apart, there is a very good chance I won’t see her at all between the end of this semester and the first semester of senior year. Which of course only reminds me of the countless other peo­ple that this will be the situation with. Even worse, I will not be here for the last semester of my friends who are cur­rently juniors. 
And then there is Notre Dame itself. I’ll miss Cavanaugh, my home for the past year and a half and the best dorm on campus solely for our ideal location next to LaFortune and the endless food it holds. While I’m not too upset about missing half of the harsh winter, I will definitely miss the first days of warm weather when we think 50 degrees means shorts and a tank top. Along with spring I’ll miss Pigtostal, the party we all use to rave about to our friends from home when they call us Notre Lame. 
But Sunday morning I saw fellow Observer news writer Sam Stryker in the dining hall. Sam, who was also accepted to Rome but for the fall semester, and I shared our celebratory news and con­gratulated each other. As I looked at Sam, who literally could not stop grin­ning as he talked about how excited he was, I thought about all the ways I could counteract the things I’ll miss. 
I won’t be living in Cavanaugh, but I’ll be living in an apartment surrounded by students from all over the world. I won’t experience the joys of spring after a South Bend winter, but I won’t have to suffer through the winter in the first place. I won’t be able to attend Pigtostal, but I’ll be raging in bars across Europe without the added worry of being arrest­ed. And I’ll miss my friends more than anything else, but I’ll make new ones. 
So to anyone who was accepted into a study abroad program and isn’t sure if they should go, please think about this. Yes, there are things you’ll miss out on at Notre Dame, but you have three and a half other years to experience life here. You only have one semester to spend in a foreign country. Don’t waste it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Your college = your personality 
As you all know, the University of Notre Dame boasts five colleges, which collectively allow any given student the opportunity to pursue something they love. Housed in these five colleges are several fields of study, facilitated by many professors who are passionate about their work and teaching (and well, some not so much for the lat­ter). So on and so on. Let’s be hon­est, though. Much Kevin Kimberly like the dorms on campus seem to Bursting the have fitting Bubble stereotypes, so too do the five col­leges. While I cannot argue that the same is true for other universities, I can say that at Notre Dame, your college says a lot about who you are. I am not writing to argue whether the college makes the student or the student makes the college; that is up to you to decide. What I am here to argue is that your college = your personality. 

School of Architecture — The Hard Working, Have No Life Students — Hands down, the hardest working stu­dents on campus are those in the School of Architecture. And unlike other stu­dents, they do not complain nearly as much as they probably could. While many of us call Notre Dame our second home, they begin to see Bond Hall not only as their second home, but their only home. I am heavily impressed by the dedication that ‘Archies’ give to their work. I tried and tried to find something to make fun of them for besides the fact that they really need to get a life (outside of the studio) but to no avail. 
College of Arts and Letters — The 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Catch All College — The college with the most majors certainly has a wide range of personalities, only a few of which I can cover. Political Science major means major tool. Ever had a class with one? You would know it; it turns into a consistent restraint of not punching them in the face. English major means big time criticizer. I mean they can probably find something wrong with Jesus. Never ask one to edit your paper; you will be revising for weeks. But then again, receiving a com­pliment almost feels like winning the lottery. Almost. Philosophy major means, well honestly, who the heck knows. Never make the mistake of invit­ing them to dinner; the next thing you know the conversation turns to whether or not the table you are eating on is real. Is this real life? No, it cannot be. They must be fake people, if that is a personality. Finally, I just want to ask sociology majors if they feel like they are in college. I swore I was taking their classes (or that level at least) around fifth grade. 
Mendoza College of Business — The Opposite of Architecture Students — Mendoza students, as is commonly said, are my favorite group of people at Notre Dame to rant about. If we are the No. 1 business school in the nation, then stu­dents at other schools must lounge on the beach all day. Yes, you have to take calculus and all those introductory busi­ness classes, but let’s be real: South Bend Bars 101 is the biggest class you take. Might I go further and call out management majors? Seriously guys? There are better things to spend $40,000-plus on. My one (and only one) compliment to business students is that it takes a special kind of person with a special kind of patience to successfully (or even not so successfully) complete the obnoxious amounts of group work assigned. So kudos for that. 
College of Engineering — The Complainers of the Century — I am not sure I have met students who hate their work more than those in the College of Engineering. Furthermore, they use every moment to let you know just what they have to do (as if anyone else understands it, or cares), how much of it they have to do and just how much they cannot stand it. News flash, guys (and those few girls staying strong): You picked your major. Not me, not Fr. Jenkins, and not that professor who took a quarter of a point off your home­work for some miscalculation. You did. On another relevant note, no one wants to hear you complain about the University requirements you have to fulfill, requiring you to write papers that you seem lost trying to accomplish. You hate Engineering work, you hate Arts and Letters classes, you hate Business students (this should be self-explanatory) … Why are you in college again? 
College of Science — The Strange Ones — This was a tricky one for me to pinpoint, so therefore it must be because science students are strange. And honestly, you have to be strange to want to study that stuff. Organic Chemistry? Ha. The MCAT? No, thank you. And with the exception of my best friend, I cannot say I ever actually see science majors. Thus, all pointing to the fact that they are … strange. 
I feel no need to put any disclaimer in this column, for I certainly only speak the truth. 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Do not anticipate trouble, or worryabout what may never happen.Keep in the sunlight.” 
Benjamin Franklin 
U.S. politician and inventor 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Ask not what the world needs. Ask what makes you come alive ... thengo do it. Because what the worldneeds is people who havecome alive.” 
Howard Thurman 
U.S. author and civil rights leader 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, February 7, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Wanted: Valentine’s date 
As a senior in my last semester here at Notre Dame, I have become very familiar with the term “bucket list.” The items on my list usually aren’t well thought out or deeply meditated on; rather they are usually just influenced by my surroundings. For example, I walked by Stepan and thought, “I need to climb Stepan before I graduate, or before they tear that building down. Whichever comes first.” 
Similarly, while shopping in CVS yesterday to buy some shampoo and conditioner, I noticed that the sea­sonal aisle was Valentine’s Day themed. I immediately added one more thing to my bucket list: Take a girl on a real Valentine’s date. 
So, for all you eligible female Domers out there, I am looking to spoil a girl silly on this Feb. 14. If you would like to be treated like a lady, by a true gentleman, please check me out on Facebook and let me know. Let me sweep you off your feet. We can do Rocco’s or Barnaby’s or Hot Box or maybe even just order some Domino’s in. 
I’ll be looking forward to hearing from you. 
Pierce Coticchia 
senior 
off campus 
Feb. 4 

Retired numbers in Purcell Pavilion 
Last year, the numbers of Luke Harangody and Ruth Riley were retired in the rafters of the Purcell Pavilion. I think this was a good idea, but I believe there are two more numbers that need to be retired. Those are the numbers of Austin Carr and Adrian Dantley, because they both were really good. I could do some research and throw in some of their statistics from when they played at Notre Dame, but I don't want to. 
Kevin Eller 
junior 
Stanford Hall 
Feb. 6 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Fitness resolutions 
Dear New Year’s Resolutionists: 
I support you in deciding to make a change. Statistically, however, most of you will fail. As a person who long ago incorporated one to two hours of sweat and exhaustion into his daily repertoire, and continues to do so, you are the proverbial stick in the road. Better yet, the 800-pound gorilla in the room. I would not claim to know everyone’s name at the gym; however, I recall faces rather well. I say this to drive the point that we know you’re not a regular and you are messing up our flow. Call it territorial or plain mean, but when I go to the gym and have to wait 10 minutes to use anything, I don’t leave a nice guy. By all means, continue to use the gym if you are going to stick with your resolution. If not, avoid peak times and/or use your residence hall’s facilities so that I get in and out of there in a timely fashion ... and still have hot water. 
Jose Torres 
First Year Law off campus Feb. 4 
Holla, gurlz 
I know, I know, there’s no way we could ever forget, but I’m just so excited I had to write in about our favorite day of the year! No, it’s not dorm dance season, even if that is a great excuse to get all dressed up. It’s not all those winter birthdays that give us an excuse to have some liquid birthday cake and make that South Bend temperature feel a little warmer. It wasn’t even this past Sunday with all the talking baby commercials, although those babies are totes adorable! Especially http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEXZ2hfD3b U! Whoops, this isn’t an e-mail. That totally isn’t going to work. Come on girls, we all know our favorite day of the year is Siegfried Hall’s Day of Man! 
While everyone else on campus is busy bundling up and trudging through the snow, the hunky men of Siegfried will be out there Wednesday wearing nothing but T-shirts, shorts and flip flops (P.S. boys — wearing a shirt is totally optional, just sayin’). And if showing off their wind-chafed skin and snow-frozen hair wasn’t enough, these boys are doing it for a good cause. Siegfried’s finest are being cold for one day to raise money for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. I had been saving up to buy a new pair of Uggs, but I think I’ll bring all my loose change with me on Wednesday to show these guys how much I love their rippling abs and bulging biceps. Maybe I’ll even be able to talk one or two of them into making me a snow angel! 
David Mahin 
junior 
Siegfried Hall 
Feb. 6 

The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Monday, February 7, 2011 

By ROSS FINNEY 
Scene Writer 

Bob Dylan’s “Masters of War” is a bad song — or so thinks veteran rock critic and author Greil Marcus, who will give a lecture Monday on the subject of beloved bad songs from 5:30 -6:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art. 
Marcus, whose newest book gathers all his writings on Dylan from 1968 to 2010, described the Masters of War, the lecture’s titu­lar bad song, as “heavy handed, self -righteous and lumbering musically.” Its staying power is testament to a phenomenon that Marcus found particularly inter­esting and will take up on Monday evening. 
He is one of the premier academ­ic authorities on Dylan, and his writings cover a huge portion of Dylan’s career, the ups and the downs included. Starting at Rolling Stone, Marcus has consis­tently and pointedly shed light on the sometimes mysterious and always fascinating musician. 
Marcus told The Observer his personal highlight in covering the music legend was, “in 1991, in the middle of the first Gulf War.” 
“He was invited to play Masters of War at the Grammys, and he sings it as fast, furious, extraordi­narily intense rock ’n’ roll. It was 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

We open on an idyllic college cam­pus, with Sara, a wide-eyed, fresh-off­the-farm college freshman who looks like she’s in her 30s (“Friday Night Light’s” alum Minka Kelly, who is in fact, 30). She has all the hopes and dreams we remember from our own first day — the perfect setting for stuff to get really scary, really fast. Except it doesn’t. 
It takes her less than a minute to meet her first “bad influence,” flakey Tracy. I can’t say I’m not with psycho roomie Rebecca (“Gossip Girl’s” Leighton Meester) here — that girl had to GO. Tracy’s suggestion on how to get into a club without an ID? “Uh, we’re hot.” Yeah, try getting into Finny’s or Fever with that. Tracy also leaves Sara at a strange bar in an unfamiliar city, and her only apology is, “Girl, he had a Porsche and a Jacuzzi”. Icky! 
When Tracy meets Rebecca, she radical, challenging, and excit ­ing,”Marcus said. 
Dylan ’s transformation of the song, and the meaning it had at that time, are a crucial part of the idea, which Marcus will address in his lecture. A song which was in many ways 
obvious 
and contrived, “like he was sitting down trying to write the best protest song ever,” became a poignant and emoti onally intense state ­ment. 

An American Studies major from Berkeley, Greil Marcus ’ writing usually has a bit of an academic fla ­vor. This unique approach to Bob Dylan and 


other 
artists and musical trends sets him apart from many writers. With books like “Invisible Republic: Bob Dylan ’s Basement Tapes ” and “Mystery Train: Images of America in Rock ’n’ Roll Music,” Marcus 


immediately tries to give her a nick­name. Who does that? We’re supposed to buy Rebecca as a psycho because she doesn’t want some random girl she just met calling her Reba or Becky? Also she doesn’t wear shower shoes. Tracy is just gross all around. Sorry but I’m on psycho-killer room­mate’s side. 
Until, that is, (Spoiler alert) Rebecca kills a kitten. You read right, she kills an adorable kitten named Cuddles. Anyone knows Cuddles’ number is up the second she was brought into the room but we hope she’ll make some heroic escape. Sadly no, it’s a tragic end for dearest Cuddles — she gets laundered to death. 
Leighton Meester’s empty-eyed vil­lain is actually good, but misses the deeply disturbing mark by about a mile. She is more like that creepy girl at the end of the hallway who never comes out of her room, but you don’t really feel like she’s going to pull out a box cutter and start going after peo­ple. The believability in the whole “girl becomes homicidal over pretty, popu­
explores music in a distinctly 
American context. This is part of the attraction to 
Dylan’s work. “His deepest subject is America; it speaks to him and he speaks back to it. He’s a scholar of American songs. He knows where they come from and where they go. He has factual knowledge that ’s harder to come by. His true subject is America as it’s been describ ed,” Marcus said. 
Marcus brings a huge amount of backg round knowledge to the table in a lecture like Monday ’s. His previous book explored Van Morrison, another artist with a long and storied career. Of simi­larities between Dylan and Morrison, Marcus said, “they’re both still around, still knocking on 
lar roommate” scenario is just shot. If pale skin and dark circles were any indicator for a sociopathic killer ... watch out around finals. 
Leighton Meester is a waify, stick of a girl, so unless she possesses some sort of superhuman strength, there’s no way she could do half of the stuff she did. One swat of the hand from any of her victims and she’d be done. Movie over, credits role. No such luck. Also, it’s a pretty big clue that even her parents are scared shitless of her. Their eyes are practically screaming “our daughter is a psycho killer! Help us!” 
Minka Kelly is relatable, and of course super pretty, which I guess is supposed to make up for the fact that she is a 30-year-old playing an 18­year-old college freshman. It’s a movie so there is wiggle room on the age thing, but there is a line, and she crosses it. Too old — it’s distracting. They try to mask this by giving her Cam Gigandet as a boyfriend. He is actually two years younger than her but he looks super old in this movie. 
doors, but [Morrison] pursues his art differently.” 
“Van Morrison has true gifts as a singer. Writing about each of them is a different kind of experience,” he said. 
It would be a mistake to think that he is really only an expert on 60s and 70s artists and songwrit­ers. In fact, the veteran critic has written on a broad range of topics including books and movies, and he writes a column in the maga­zine “The Believer.” As a music writer he is always challenging; his two favorite singles from 2010 were Lady Gaga’s “Bad Romance” and Train’s “Hey Soul Sister.” 
The lecture to a college age audience will be nothing new for Marcus. The author has taught college courses before and said he “loves seeing the ways in which young people come to new materi­al.” 
“They have new notions and ideas, things that didn’t occur to me at all before. People are responding in new ways — it’s a complete delight,” he said. 
With an experienced and knowl­edgeable lecturer like Marcus, Monday’s examination of beloved bad songs is sure to be a fun and informative experience for anyone who has ever really loved a terri­ble tune. 
Contact Ross Finney at 
tfnney@nd.edu 
The problem with this movie is that nothing happens that wasn’t in the trailers. Those really caught the high­lights. If you’re looking for a movie where nothing really scary happens and you’re in absolutely no suspense, this is it. 
“The Roomate” 
Director: Christian E. Christiansen Starring: Minka Kelly, Leighton Meester, Cam Gigandet 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, February 7, 2011 page 9 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Danielle Arthur Spotted: Lewis Hall Danielle is ready for a day of classes followed by a fun night out with friends. Her dark skinny jeans are comfortable by day and chic by night. Her striped black and white tank mixes and matches with anything and everything. She also made a great choice by wearing a black leather jacket. It looks stylish and is essential to com­plete the look. Danielle’s outfit is perfect for a full day of activities. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

Growing up in Florence, Italy, I remember being spellbound by color. I am sure that my fellow students who have jaunted abroad to this fair Renaissance city can completely empathize with my predicament. 
I saw the 
Fel c a 
sea greens 
Capon gr 
of Botticelli’s Birth of Venus, the golden hues Scene Writer 
of Giotto’s masterpieces and the shimmering blues and pinks of Michelangelo’s Tondo Doni. However, while some might see these brilliant colors in that holy of art holies, the Uffizi gallery, I saw them in a place which draws the mind to even greater aesthetic contemplation: my neighborhood glove shop. 
As I passed the accessory choices, and show our own hands the same tender, lov­ing, stylish care. 
When choosing a glove, fit can­not be underestimated. Leather proves to be an excellent choice as it gives over time, learning your hands’ unique personality and needs. While slight wrinkling is understandable, beware the sales associate who attempts to sell you an overly worn pair — they have obviously been tried on by one too many enthusiastic clients. The gloves’ lining will clue you in to its function — choose a cashmere lining for the colder months, or a silk lined pair should you wish to carry your look into spring. 
This is not the time to hesitate in terms of color. Go wild! Leopard print, hot fuchsia, nude or electric 
blue are permis­
sible and desir­small boutique I windows of this 
able. If you have was assailed with 
wardrobe pieces color and glamour 
in a color you 
thought would imate hand man­— seemingly inan­
never go with nequins insistently 
anything, this is begged to shake 
the time to find my own hand, to 
their long lost supplicate me to 
fashion accesso­feel the soft 
ry soul mate and leather encasing 
make your closet them. What truly 
their happily sold this product, 
ever after! however, was not 
Of course, the decadent win-
should you wish dow display, but 
to remain with the Italian women 
the classic mini-stepping out of the 
malist look, navy boutique. 
blue, black, and In the cold, chilly 
brown never go air of the Tuscan out of style and weather, their hands were kept will please every piece of your col-toasty warm in hues which lective wardrobe. brought their fashion ensem-The best part, however, of this ble to a whole new level of 
accessory is the dry, cracked chic. Orange gloves brought hands they will prevent. out the brassy undertones Fear no more of their brown leather 
the look of jackets, red gloves high-horror on your lighted the silk scarf 
professor’s face imbued with the same when you shake tint tied at their neck. his or her hand 
In short, they were after a glove-less their own master-walk through pieces, rivaling their DeBartolo Quad. fine art counterparts As you take off hanging just across your glove your the Arno. Indeed, to my 6-classmates will mar­year-old eyes, Botticelli seemed vel at your fashion 

absolutely dull in comparison to savvy.  Dillard’s cur-these fashion elements. This rently offers this Italian luxury for impetus to keep one’s hands $33.60. Winter, do your worst, our warm in the face of the chill is hands are girded and at the ready. certainly not unique to our fellows across the pond. Indeed, I doubt The views expressed in this col-they could endure our Notre umn are those of the author and Dame winters with as much not necessarily those of The aplomb as we do! We can howev-Observer. Contact Felicia er, take inspiration from their Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February  7, 2011 
NHL 

Capitals dominate injury-plagued Penguins 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Brooks Laich scored a blue-collar goal, Marcus Johansson got a flashy one, and the Washington Capitals stayed super on Super Sunday, beating the star-starved Pittsburgh Penguins 3-0. 
The Capitals won their eighth straight Super Bowl matinee and snapped the five-game win­ning streak of their dreaded rival Penguins, who are dealing with a likely season-ending knee injury to Evgeni Malkin and are awaiting Sidney Crosby’s return from a concussion. 
Pittsburgh’s hopes for a Super Sunday double — the Steelers were playing for the NFL title later in the day — were stifled by an improved Washington defense anchored by Michal Neuvirth, who made 22 saves in his first start since Jan. 18. 
Mike Knuble added an empty net goal for the Capitals, who controlled the flow of play for most of the game and picked up some needed momentum, win­ning their second straight fol­lowing a three-game losing streak. 
One possible concern: Mike Green was struck on the right side of the head by a slap shot from Brooks Orpik at the end of the first period. Blood trickled onto the ice as the training staff attended the defenseman, who was able to skate off after a cou­ple of minutes but did not return to the game. 
There seemed no way Sunday’s game could recapture the magic of two of the teams’ most recent high-profile meet­ings. It was a year ago on Super Sunday that the Capitals rode Alex Ovechkin’s hat trick to overcome a three-goal deficit in a rough, name-calling win in overtime while the rest of the nation’s capital was digging out from a massive blizzard. Then, on New Year’s Day, the teams met in prime time at Heinz Field — home of the Steelers — where the Washington took a 3­1 win in the Winter Classic. 
Sunday did mark the first chance for the Penguins to retal­iate for the hit Crosby took to the head from David Steckel on Jan. 1. Crosby took another hit in the head from Tampa Bay’s Victor Hedman on Jan. 5 and has since missed 13 games. 
It seemed right on cue, there­fore, when Pittsburgh’s Tim Wallace, recalled on Saturday night from Wilkes­Barre/Scranton of the AHL, and Steckel dropped their gloves after a faceoff in the third peri­od. Both received five minutes for fighting. 
Then, with 3:42 to play, Matt Cooke blatantly tripped Ovechkin in the open ice. Ovechkin got up, and he and Nicklas Backstrom immediately charged Cooke, both landing punches to the face. Cooke was given a 2-minute penalty of trip­ping; neither Ovechkin nor Backstrom was penalized. 
The Capitals are morphing into a more defense-oriented team than the one that won the Presidents’ Trophy a year ago, so a 1-0 lead on a rebound goal after the first period was just fine. Laich, charging toward the crease after Marc-Andre Fleury made the save on John Erskine’s slap shot, backhanded the loose puck into the net. 
Knuble appeared to make it 2­0 early in the second, but his goal was waved off when Matt Hendricks was whistled for goaltender interference after inadvertently knocking Fleury to the ice during a tussle with Alex Goligoski for the game’s first penalty. 
It was while the Capitals were short-handed that Johansson struck, capitalizing on a blue line turnover to maneuver down the ice for a perfect backhander into the upper left corner of the net. 

NBA 

Cavaliers make NBA record for longest losing streak 
and fell to 8-42 — an almost appeared the Cavaliers might against every team, but, of Moon couldn’t avoid hitting the 
Associated Press 

unimaginable record for a finally end a slide that began course, there’s added pressure back of a truck that swerved 
CLEVELAND — The losing team that won more than 60 with a Dec. 20 loss to Utah and with them struggling the way and struck the center divider. streak has been long, painful games the past two seasons shows no signs of ending. they are,” Miller said. “You The driver of the other vehicle and embarrassing. and went deep in the playoffs. Cleveland led early in the don’t want to be the top head-left the scene before police 
Now it’s historic. But that was with LeBron fourth quarter, but Rudy line: ‘Streak ends to Portland arrived. 
The Cleveland Cavaliers have James. Fernandez hit a 3-pointer and Trail Blazers.’ Guys took a little Moon banged his knee but the NBA’s record for futility all Without him, the Cavs are the Blazers went on a 15-4 run pride in that.” was otherwise uninjured. to themselves. shells of their former selves. to open a 105-95 lead. The The Cavs, who at one point However, his Mercedes L350 
Cleveland’s losing streak “We have to figure out how to Cavs didn’t fold, and they were 7-9, came in tied with sustained heavy damage. He reached 24 games on Saturday win these games,” said Gibson, responded with a 10-2 spurt to Vancouver (1995-96) and needed help from members of night as Wesley Matthews who scored 12 with nine make it 107-105 on Sessions’ Denver (1997-98) for the Cleveland’s Fire Dept., who scored 31 points and LaMarcus assists. “We just have to keep lay-in with 1:23 left. longest losing skid in one sea-used a hammer to make his car Aldridge added 20 to lead the trying until we do. It’s not a But on Portland’s next pos-son. drivable. Portland Trail Blazers to a 111-matter of if, but when. We have session, former Cavs guard It’s all theirs now, another “It’s an F175 now,” teammate 105 win over the pitiful Cavs, to continue to play the way Andre Miller, who had just one blow in a nightmarish season Anthony Parker cracked. who are yet to win in 2011 and we’re playing and things are point with five minutes left, that seemed destined for fail-Moon came off the bench and have lost a mind-boggling 34 of going to change for us.” dropped a tough, 12-foot fade-ure when James decided to knocked down two straight 3­
35. When? away to put the Blazers back leave. pointers, and the Cavs made 6 
With just one win since Nov. “The next game, hopefully,” up by four. “I couldn’t care less about the of 7 from behind the arc while 27, the Cavaliers now own the he said. “That’s the way you Sessions then missed a layup record,” Cavs coach Byron outscoring the Blazers 37-32 in league’s single-season mark for have to approach it.” with 39 seconds left after grab-Scott said. “I care about our the second quarter to open a consecutive losses and have Antawn Jamison scored 17 bing a loose ball that went guys progressing and getting 57-55 halftime lead. Moon has-matched the record for overall and Ramon Sesions 15 points through teammate J.J. better. That’s my biggest focus n’t been getting much playing losses in a row they previously to pace the Cavs, who will try Hickson’s hands underneath. and hopefully they feel the time of late, but coach Byron set over 1981-82 and 1982-83. to end their skid on Monday in The Cavs had to foul and same way.” Scott decided to use him and it 
“It feels like a bad dream,” Dallas. After that, they’ll host Fernandez’s two free throws The night didn’t start well for paid off. 
said guard Daniel Gibson. Detroit, the Los Angeles sent Cleveland to another gut-the Cavs. Moon finished with a season-And it’s not over. Clippers and Washington — all wrenching defeat. Forward Jamario Moon was high 14 points, but it wasn’t Cleveland nearly overcame a three are under .500 and the Miller admitted the Blazers involved in a minor car acci-nearly enough, and Cleveland 
10-point deficit in the fourth Wizards are the league’s only didn’t want to be the team to dent while driving to Quicken was again plagued by not hav­quarter, but once again failed winless road team. let Cleveland off the mat. Loans Arena as another heavy ing anyone to turn to in the to make plays down the stretch For much of the night, it “There’s pressure playing snow blanketed Cleveland. closing minutes. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about Don't know much about history Don't know much about algebra Don't know much about history has been sexually assaulted, we Don't know much biology Don't know what a slide rule is for Don't know much biologyFOR RENT PERSONALS can help. Don't know much about a science Don't know much about a science 
For more information, visit Notre book But I do know that one and one is book GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu Don't know much about the french I two Don't know much about the french I RENTAL: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ——————————————— took And if this one could be with you took House for rent for What a wonderful world this would graduation/JPW/weddings,football, Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has “Inconceivable!" But I do know that I love you be But I do know that I love you etc. many resources in place to assist And I know that if you love me too And I know that if you love me too Perfect location-right next to the you. If you or someone you love - "You keep using that word. I do What a wonderful world this would Now I don't claim to be an "A" stu-What a wonderful world this would new Eddy Street Commons-walk to needs confidential support or assis-not think it means what you think it be dent be everything-safe family oriented tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at means." But I'm trying to be street. Email nd-house@sbcglob-1-7819. For more information, visit Don’t know much about So maybe by being an "A" student -Wonderful World, Sam Cooke al.net for additional info and photos ND's website at: http://pregnancy--The Princess Bride geography baby 
support@nd.edu Don’t know much trigonometry I can win your love for me ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Monday, February 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

Brady wins NFL MVP in unanimous decision 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady on Sunday became the first unanimous choice for The Associated Press NFL Most Valuable Player Award since the AP began using a nationwide panel of media members who cover the league. 
He surpassed himself, too: In 2007, when Brady won his first MVP, he got 49 votes; one voter went for Brett Favre. 
“It is always flattering to be chosen for such a prestigious award,” Brady said. “But I also look at it as a team award, as nothing in football gets accomplished without the mental toughness and deter­mination of every player and coach associated with that team. 
“I am very humbled to be a part of an organization where winning comes first, and our goals are based around the success of the team.” 
Those successes, including three Super Bowl titles in the last 10 years, are in great part due to Brady’s excel ­lence. 
Although he didn’t set near­ly as many passing marks as in ’07, Brady by far was the league’s top performer in leading New England to a 14­2 record, best in the NFL. He had a record streak of 355 throws without being inter­cepted, and passed for 36 touchdowns with only four picks. 
Not that the 33 -year-old Brady would compare this season’s Patriots to any oth­ers. 
“Every team every year is different,” he said, “and over the course of 100 practices and many games a team establishes its identity. Players change, schemes change, opponents change, which is why the game is so exciting year in and year out. 
“The fact that 32 teams start out each year with the same goal is why the popular­ity of the sport is at an all-time high. The great part about our sport is that noth­ing comes easy, and wherever you stand at the end of the year is the exact place that you deserve to be.” 
Individually, Brady stands above all others. The only Patriot to win the award, he and Peyton Manning, his rival for the NFL’s best quarter­back, have split the last four MVPs. 
Brady followed his previous MVP trophy with a lost sea­son, tearing left knee liga­ments in the first half of the 2008 opener. His return in 2009 was solid, although hand and rib injuries slowed him. 
This year, even with a sore right foot that required post­season surgery, Brady was simply dynamic. He twice threw for four touchdowns in a game and four times had three. Twelve times, he had a passer rating of at least 100. 

And he guided a young team in transition to 14 victories. 
“Brady is so special because he’s such a great leader and all the players can relate to him,” team owner Robert Kraft said. “These kids (rook­ies) who come in live in awe of him, but the nice thing is he treats them well. 
“He works very hard, he studies very hard,” Kraft added. “Being a great quar­terback isn’t just being very skilled. It’s being able to process information quickly, to make the adjustments, and I think he’s fabulous at that.” 
As fabulous as he might have been, Brady, not surpris­ingly, has some regrets about 2010. 
“When the season is over, 31 teams are disappointed about the outcome,” he said. “There is only one champion, and nobody plays this game for second place. The desire and hunger is about winning, which to me never gets old. The motivation to get up and work every day for that goal is something that challenges us all. 
“Our team has very high expectations, and our team will come back this year with the same purpose,” he said. “Whether or not that leads to a championship season will be determined by the commit­ment each player makes to do their job as best as they possi­bly can.” 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 7, 2011 
NFL 

Sanders, Faulk headline Hall of Fame class 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Deion Sanders always was Prime Time. Now he’s All Time. 
Sanders and Marshall Faulk led a class of seven voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame on Saturday. Joining them were Shannon Sharpe, Richard Dent, Ed Sabol, Les Richter and Chris Hanburger. 
As talkative as he was tal­ented, known as much for his celebration dances as his interceptions and kick returns, Sanders was an out­standing cornerback and sometime wide receiver with five teams. He’s a two-time Super Bowl winner and was the Defensive Player of the Year in 1994. 
Sanders reacted to his elec­tion with typical Neon Deion bravado. He said he’s grate­ful, but then made sure to explain, “what you feel about me has nothing to do with how I feel about me.” 
Then he broke into the open field. 
“Next to the Bible, my favorite book was ‘The Little Engine That Could.’ I read that story so many times, I know it by heart,” he said. “And a couple trains passed that engine until he started saying to himself: ‘I think I can. I think I can. I think I can.’ And that’s what I mod­eled my career after. I mean, it sounds arrogant, it sounds brash, it sounds cocky. But it was real.” 
Sanders also played major league baseball. But football clearly was his calling. 
“He was an electrifying per­former who put fans on the edge of their seats every time he manned his cornerback position or dropped back to receive a kickoff or field a punt,” Falcons owner Arthur Blank said. “Deion is, without question, one of the greatest players in the history of the NFL.” 
Sanders got in a comical dig at Faulk and Sharpe. 
“Man, this is real,” he said, “and I got to see Marshall Faulk and Shannon Sharpe cry.” 
Faulk won a Super Bowl with the 1999 Rams, was the 1994 Offensive Rookie of the Year, 2000 NFL MVP and a three-time Offensive Player of the Year (1999-2001). Faulk is the 10th leading career rusher with 12,279 yards, and for a half-dozen seasons was the most versatile back in football, as much a threat as a receiver as a runner. 
“I wanted the ball in my hands so I could so some­thing with it,” Faulk said, recalling how he briefly played quarterback in high school and didn’t find it exciting enough. 
Faulk got teary-eyed when asked how his mother react­ed to his election. 
Sharpe starred for Denver and Baltimore for 14 seasons and won three Super Bowls in a four-year span, two with Denver, one with Baltimore. He held league records for a tight end in receptions, yards and touchdowns when he retired in 2001. 
“If I had a thousand tongues, I couldn’t say how happy and proud I am,” Sharpe said. “I don’t know 
what I did to deserve this. 
John Elway knew. 
“This caps off a tremendous football career by a guy who truly was self-made and worked his tail off to become one of the best players in the history of the NFL,” said Elway, who was Sharpe’s quarterback in Denver. 
Sharpe always knew foot­ball was going to be his pro­fession. 
“If you are going to have letters behind your name, I wasn’t going to have M.D. or PhD. HOF is pretty good,” he said. 
Bears defensive end Dent was the MVP of the 1986 Super Bowl and finished with 137½ career sacks. He was the top pass rusher on one of the NFL’s greatest defensive units. Dent became a starter in 1984, beginning a 10-year period in which he made 10 or more sacks in eight of 10 seasons. 
“It was a long time coming, I am very happy,” Dent said. “If you can do your thing the way (Walter Payton) did his, you can be in the Hallof Fame. I am so thankful for this.” 
Dent also won a Super Bowl in 1994 with the 49ers. 
Richter played linebacker for the Los Angeles Rams from 1954-62. They traded 11 players for him and wait­ed two years while he was in the military before he suited up. He made the wait worth­while , going to eight straight Pro Bowls. He also was a center and kicker. 
Richter died last June. 

“Les was a tough, hard-nosed football player who gave it his all on every play and in every practice,” Hall of Famer Deacon Jones recalled of Richter. “He knocked the hell out of peo­ple. I mean, he d really hit you. Les Richter was a great teammate.” 
Hanburger spent all 14 pro seasons with the Redskins and played in nine Pro Bowls. He played from 1965-78 and was called “The Hangman.” He was known for using clothesline tackles that even­tually were outlawed. 
“It’s wonderful. I am just overwhelmed. It’s such a tremendous honor to be nom­inated, let alone get in,” Hanburger said. “Have to think of all the men who played before me and all the men I played with.” 
Sabol founded NFL Films and was selected as a con­tributor. Under his guidance, NFL Films received 52 Emmy Awards. 
The finalists who did not get in were Curtis Martin, Dermontti Dawson, Cortez Kennedy, Andre Reed and Willie Roaf. 
Induction ceremonies are Aug. 6 in Canton, Ohio. 
NBA 

Rondo leads Celtics past struggling Magic 
Associated Press 
BOSTON —RajonRondoscored 11 of his 26 points in the third quarter when the Boston Celtics capitalized on Orlando’s cold shootingto take charge andgo on to a 91-80 win over the Magic on Sunday. 
Boston led 46-43 at halftime and stretched that to 70-55 with 
3:36 left in the third quarter. At that point, the Celtics had made 9 of their 10 shots in the period while the Magic had hit just 4 of 18. 
Orlando scored the last six points of the third quarter, cutting the lead to 70-61, but the Celtics came right back with a 7-2 run to go ahead 77-63. They led by at leasteighttherestoftheway. 
Paul Pierce added 18 points and Kevin Garnett had 16 for the Celtics, who improved to 23-4 at home. Dwight Howard had 28 points and 13 rebounds for the Magic, who lost for the fifth time ineightgames. 
Ray Allen made 2 of 4 3-point­ers and moved within three ofthe NBA record of 2,560 made 3­pointers held by Reggie Miller. Allen can improve on his total of 2,557 at Charlotte on Monday night. 
The Magic made just 3 of 24 shots from 3-point range after entering the game ranked ninth in the NBA with a 36.8 percent­age. They’ve taken and made the most 3-pointers in the league. Overall, they took 30 more field goal attempts than the Celtics but madejusttwomore. 
Celtics backup guard Marquis Daniels wastaken offthe courton a stretcher after he hurt his back in a collision with Gilbert Arenas with 11:01 left in the second quarter. He was taken to New England Baptist Hospital for examination. 
Daniels was hurt after he began driving to the basket from the right side of the lane and hit his head on Arenas’ left shoulder. Daniels fell and lay motionless for a few minutes with his head fac­ingdown while surroundedbyhis coaches and teammates near their bench. Medical personnel put a neck brace on him and strapped him onto a stretcher. He gave a thumbs-up sign as he left tothecheersofthecrowd. 
Leading by three at halftime, Boston took controlby scoringthe first seven points of the third quarter, taking a 53-43 lead. Pierce began the spurt with a 15­footer, Garnett added a baseline jumper and Allen hit his second 3-pointerofthegame. 


Monday, February 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Lyons 
continued from page 16 
with the best players in the country known. Frilling, ranked ninth, continued her impressive start to the season as she defeated 13th-ranked De Bruycker 6-3, 6-2, at No. 1 sin­gles. Mathews, 104th -ranked, claimed a victory doubles to start off the day. McGaffigan and Kellner clinched the doubles point with an 8-6 victory over Ryann Cutillo and Emilee Malvehy while Frilling and Mathews won 9-8 over 83rd-ranked tandem of Martina Pavelec and Kayla Duncan. 
In singles, Sabacinski claimed her first career match-winning 
victory at No. 
6 when she 
won 6-3, 6-2 

in No. 2 spot as “The energy and our over Bercyte. she knocked out Frilling won 
level of
54th -ranked at No. 1 4-6, Featherstone, 6-3, competitiveness has 6-3, 1-0 over 
6-3, for her third been the best of the 62nd-ranked straight win over Pavelec.
season.” 
a nationally-Mathews ranked opponent. defeated 
Rafael, Shannon Matthews Duncan in McGaffig an, Irish junior straight sets 
Kellner and Sabacinski fell at the remaining sin­gles spots after three hard fought sets in each match. 
But the Irish didn’t let the lost match get them down. 
“We were disappointed with the UNC result, but it was a hard fought match with four three-set matches,” Mathews said. “The energy and our level of competitiveness has been the best of the season. So we were happy with that, and we all keep improving with each match we play.” 
Sunday was a different story. 
After Saturday’s struggles, all three doubles pairings were able to bounce back and defeat their Demon Deacon counter­parts. 
Sabacinski and Rafael were victorious by a tally of 8-3 over Wake Forest’s Anna Mydlowska and Brigita Bercyte at No. 3 at No. 2 at 6­
2, 6-3. 
Neither Rafael at No. 3 nor Kellner at No. 5 dropped a set either and won 7-5, 6-4 and 6-1, 6-4, respectively. The lone loss on the day was by McGaffigan at No. 5 by a score of 6-2, 1-6, 6-4 to Cutillo. 
“The Wake Forest match was a good win for us and we played better doubles but we still have room for improve­ment in all three flights of dou­bles,” Mathews said. “We all have things we need to work on this week, especially as we look to this week and weekend with three tough matches.” 
The Irish return to the courts this week as they host Michigan Thursday, Vanderbilt Saturday and Wisconsin Sunday. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobsion@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Squads excel at Northwestern Duals 
Observer Staff report 
The Irish fencing squads remained dominant this weekend as both the men and women’s teams went undefeated at the Northwestern Duals. 
The men finished at 5-0 and the women 7-0, as each preserved their No. 1 national rankings. On the way to victory, the Irish men dispatched Princeton (20-7), Stanford (16-11), California Institute of Technology (27-0), 
Doubles 
continued from page 16 
The Irish dropped their sec­ond consecutive match yester­day afternoon to No. 14 Duke before capping off the day with a victory over Toledo in a split doubleheader at home. 
Duke (6-0) fell behind early to the Irish, came back and rallied for a 5-2 victory. It was the first deficit that the Blue Devils had faced all season prior to competing at Notre Dame. 
Forcing that deficit were the Irish No. 2 and No. 3 doubles pairings. The No. 3 doubles pair of freshman Greg Andrews and junior Casey Watt took down Duke’s David Holland and Chris Mengal 8-6. At the No. 2 position, junior Niall Fitzgerald and sopho-University of California – San Diego (25-2) and North Carolina (20-7). 
The Irish were led by their sabreists Barron Nydam, Avery Zuck, Keith Feldman, Marcel Frenkel, Kevin Hasset, Carl Ianiro and Alexander Coccia, combining for a 32-3 record as Zuck, Frenkel, Hasset and Ianiro all went unde­feated. Steve Kubik also did not encounter defeat over the two-day event, leading a Notre Dame foil squad that saw all seven fencers 
more Spencer Talmadge improved their doubles record to 4-1 when they defeated Jared Pinsky and Fred Saba 9­8, securing the doubles point. 
At No. 1, seniors Tyler Davis and Stephen Havens fell to Reid Carleton and Henrique Cunha in an 8-4 decision. 
Cunha defeated No. 1 singles Watt, 7-6 (8-6), 6-1. It was the junior’s second consecutive loss since coming up with the clinching singles victory over No. 17 Oklahoma last week­end. 
Junior Samuel Keeton picked up the lone singles victory for the Irish as he topped fresh­man Fred Saba, 6-2, 3-6, 6-2, for a win at the No. 4 singles position. 
In the evening, Notre Dame (3-2) bounced back and snapped its two-match losing streak with a 7-0 victory over Toledo (4-3). 
post winning records. 
The women faced only a slightly stiffer challenge than the men, posting victories over Farleigh Dickinson (25-2), North Carolina (24-2), UC – San Diego (25-2), California Institute of Technology (24-3), Princeton (14-13), Temple (18-9) and Stanford (22-5). Their unbeaten streak now stands at 85 matches. 
Two fencers, Marta Stepien and Courtney Hurley, posted undefeat­ed records. 
All of the doubles matches were pro sets, as the Irish con­tinued their success at the position from earlier in the day by taking two of the three matches. 
The combination of Fitzgerald and Talmadge lost a hard-fought match at No. 1 doubles, 8-6. 
At third doubles, freshman Ryan Bandy and senior Matt Johnson downed Mircea Dimofte and Bryant Dudzik in an 8-5 decision at third dou­bles. Davis and Andrews clinched the doubles point, defeating Leo Sarria and Terence Weigand 8-6. 
Watt led the charge at the No. 1 singles position again for the Irish, winning 5-7, 6-1, 10­
8. The remaining singles play­ers all won in straight sets. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 7, 2011 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
points in the second half to pace the Irish. Novosel also 

grabbed eight rebounds, matching her career-high for the first time since Nov. 21 at Kentucky . Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins fol­lowed suit with 17 points and four rebounds. 
“Our guards haven’t been scoring as 

“We could have played better defensively. We didn’t get as many steals as we typically do, and we committed more turnovers than our opponents, which is rare.” 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
team has set during the seven-game winning streak. In the last five games, four opponents have been held to 50 points or fewer. 
“We could have played better d e f e n s i v e l y, ” McGraw said. “We didn’t get as many steals as we typically do, and we commit­ted more 

much, so it was great to see turnovers than our opponent, them both attack the basket,” which is rare.” McGraw said. The Irish had 18 turnovers, 
Senior forward Becca while South Florida only com-Bruszewski and freshman for-mitted 14. ward Natalie Achonwa domi-Notre Dame has now had a 
nated the low  20-win season in  
post  for  the  17 of its last 18  
Irish against the Bulls, scoring 16  “We need to work on our aggressiveness. If  seasons. Notre Dame moved into sec- 
and 14 points,  we can work on that  ond place in the  
respectively. Bruszewski’s 11 points in  and our intensity, we will be fne.”  Big East with the victory, trailing only Connecticut,  
the first half  whom the Irish  
helped Irish to a  the 42­ Muffet McGraw Irish coach  will have a road rematch against  

30 advantage at the half. Achonwa also added eight rebounds. 
“The post continued to shoot from a high percentage,” McGraw said. 
Notre Dame’s frontcourt also led the way in a 16-9 advan­tage in second chance points. Several of those buckets came in the second half, which were key to sustaining the Irish lead. 
The Irish defense did not play up to the standards that the team has set during their seven-game winning streak. In the last five games, four oppo­nents have been held to 50 points or fewer. 
The Irish defense did not play up to the standards that the 
Feb. 19. 
“We need to 
work on our aggressiveness,” McGraw said. “If we can work on that and our intensity, we will be fine.” 
The Irish will host two Big East matchups this week, as Seton Hall comes to Purcell Pavilion on Tuesday and Rutgers arriving for a key con­ference matchup Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD 
Freshmen lead Irish with top-10 finishes 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish held their own this weekend as they took 
on 
46 of the nation ’s top 

The most extraordinary run was not by a Notre Dame athlete, but instead by Michigan sophomore Rebecca Addison in the historic Meyo Mile . Addison recorded the sec­

ond 
-fastest women ’s mile time in the nation with a 


p r o g r a m s  i n  t h e  M e y o  
I n v i t a t i o n a l a t  t h e  L o f t u s  
Center.  

4:40.62 finish. 
Notre Dame boasted two runners that finished in the top 10 of the mile run. Freshman Alexa Aragon placed fifth with a time of 
4:56.75 while classmate Kelly Curran took 10th, recording a time of 5:02.27. 
Sophomore Rebecca Tracy was the sole Irish competitor in the Meyo Mile, finishing fourth with a time of 4:44.31. 
Notre Dame ’s strongest showing came in the 1,000 -meter race Friday night where six Irish run­ners finished in the top 11. Tracey took first in 
2:48.18 and was followed close behind by freshman McKinzie Schulz in third and senior Abby Higgins in fourth . Freshman Kelly Curran and Aragon took fifth and seventh, respec ­tively, while junior Allison Schroeder came in 11th. 
Seniors Natalie Johnson and Higgins also per ­formed well in the 800 ­meter run, finishing 10th and 11th, respectively, with Johnson edging out Higgins by only two-tenths of a second. 
The Irish also had two top 15 finishers in the 3,000 -meter race: fresh ­man Meg Ryan and junior Molly Hirt. Ryan came in eighth place, running a 
9:43 .02, and Hirt took 13th with a time of 10:11.77. 
The Irish will next be in action Feb. 19 at the Big East Indoor Championships in Akron, Ohio. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
Rutgers 
continued from page 16 
half brought the Irish lead to 11 with 5:27 remaining. 
Hansbrough had 25 points but struggled from the field, only shooting 6-15, including 2-8 from beyond the arc. But the sharpshooter was 11-13 from the free throw line, sealing the victory after hit­ting two free throws with 
0:28 remaining to make it 72-68. 
“We were definitely tested in this one,” Hansbrough said. “But it’s almost good to make the mistakes we made as long as we learn from them and come out with the win.” 
Hansbrough was hounded all game by long defenders that limited his movement, one of those forwards being Rutgers’ leading scorer, the 6-foot -7 senior forward Jonathan Mitchell. But it wasn’t enough to snatch a victory from the Irish, who have yet to lose at home this season. 
“Hansbrough does a great job of using his body and using your weight against you to create fouls,” Mitchell said after his 24-point per­formance. “They did a great job of attacking us.” 
The Irish didn’t have to solely rely on Hansbrough this time around as four players scored in double fig­ures, including senior for­ward Carleton Scott who notched his fifth double-dou­ble of the year with 12 points and 11 rebounds. 
“After the first half, we definitely felt like we could go out there and hit the boards,” Scott said of Notre Dame’s 36 rebounds. “Coach [Brey] always tells us that defensive rebounds jump start the offense so we just made sure that we did everything we could to be scrappy on the defensive end.” 
Scott’s game was high ­lighted by a put-back dunk on his own missed shot that sparked the crowd into fren­zy and gave the Irish a 66­58 lead with 6:07 remaining. 
“Those kind of plays can really get everyone going,” Scott said. “It was an off-balance shot with one hand but the shooter always knows where the ball is going to end up so I just made a play on it.” 
Meanwhile, in the last eight minutes of the game, the Irish only made two field goals, relying on seniors Scott Martin (14 points) and Hansbrough in the second half to hit 10 free throws for their final 10 points of the game 
“It was a night for our old guys to win the game,” Brey said. “We would make a mis­take and they did a good job 
of moving on to the next play. They didn’t panic.” 
Notre Dame’s win launches a three -game Big East stretch this week as the Irish will host No. 15 Louisville on Wednesday before hitting the road to take on South Florida Feb. 12. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Monday, February 7, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
JUMBLE
LAURA McGINN 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, February 7, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame sneaks past slumpingRutgersathome 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
They’re called free throws for a reason. 
No. 9 Notre Dame survived a scare at home from a struggling Rutgers team by shooting 27 -34 from the charity stripe as a part of a 76-69 victory Sunday after­noon. 
“It’s a great weapon to have to be able to draw fouls and shoot [free throws] at a good rate,” Irish coach Mike Brey said of the 10 fouls the Scarlet Knights (12-11, 3-8 Big East) committed in the first 6:40 of the second half. 
Rutgers held the lead only once in the opening minutes 
of the game, but it never backed down from the Irish (19-4, 8-3), even after a shot from senior guard Ben Hansbrough in the second 
see RUTGERS/page 14 

Scarlet fever 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior guard Ben Hansbrough dribbles up the court during Notre Dame’s 76-69 victory over Rutgers Sunday. Hansbrough lead the Irish with 25 points, including 11 points from the free throw line. 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish look to recover from loss 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish dropped their second consecutive match yesterday afternoon to No. 14 Duke before capping off the day with a victory over Toledo in a split doublehead­er at home. 
Duke (6-0) fell behind early to the Irish, but was able to come­back and rally for a 5-2 victory. It was the first deficit that the Blue Devils had faced all season prior to competing at Notre Dame. 
Forcing that deficit were the Irish No. 2 and No. 3 doubles pairings. The No. 3 doubles pair of freshman Greg Andrews and junior Casey Watt took down Duke’s David Holland and Chris Mengal 8-6. At the No. 2 position, junior Niall Fitzgerald and sopho­more Spencer Talmadge improved their doubles record to 4-1 when they defeated Jared 
see DOUBLES/page 13 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Jeremy Rae runs sub-four minute mile at Meyo Invitational 
Center record. ing Big East athlete of the week, the 5,000-meter run, senior Dan some points there,” Piane said. 
By JACK HEFFERON 

“We had great competition this continued his breakout season Jackson, junior Kelly Lynch and The Irish will have two full 
Sports Writer 

weekend,” Irish coach Joe Piane with his first ever sub-four minute senior Ryan Jacobs all placed in weeks to rest and prepare before said. “A guy ran the fastest 400 in mile, breaking the tape in 3 min-the top 10 with Big East qualifying heading to Akron for the Big East 
The Irish kept pace this week-the world, how can you argue with utes, 59.62 seconds for first place times. The 500-meter run was no Championships, where they hope end at the Meyo Invitational, that? We had great performances in the prestigious Meyo Mile. different, as the pack running of to repeat as Indoor champions. notching several high finishes from the first event on Friday to Junior Jordan Carlson took fourth Mitch Lorenz, Jack Howard, “We’re going to train really hard despite facing an elite level of com-the last event Saturday, and I think with a personal best finish of Matthew Brown and Eric Roth all this week, then back off the week petition. our guys responded to it well.” 4:03.39. pulled in top 10 finishes as well. before the meet. At that point, the 
Traditionally one of the best Notre Dame would not be out-“Jeremy’s trained very well for Piane said the strength the Irish hay’s in the barn,” Piane said. meets in the country, this year’s done, though, and stepped up to the last year and a half. We could showed at the meet will be essen-“We’ll have to stay healthy, but I Meyo was no exception, as the competition with strong per-see a race like this coming for him, tial for his team in the upcoming think we have as good of a chance Alabama’s Kirani James ran the formances across the board. The and as fast as he finished, we think conference championships. as anyone.” 400 meters in 45.47 seconds, the highlight of the weekend for the he can still run faster,” Piane said. “We’re going to need that depth fastest time in the world this sea-Irish was another top time as The depth of the Irish was also for the Big East meet. We’re good, Contact Jack Hefferon at son. That time is also a Loftus sophomore Jeremy Rae, the reign-on display at the Invitational. In but we’re going to have to score wheffero@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Novosel leads team past Bulls 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
In a tightly-matched 76-68 win over South Florida on Saturday, the Irish learned there is no such thing as an easy Big East road game. 
No. 8 Notre Dame (20-4, 9-1 Big East) held off a strong sec­ond half effort by the Bulls (10­13, 1-8) to notch their seventh consecutive conference victory. 
“It was a great win,” Irish coach Muffett McGraw said. “We played better offensively than we have in the last couple games.” 
Four Irish starters recorded double-digit points in the win. Junior guard Natalie Novosel scored 12 of her team-high 19 
see IRISH/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
ND defeats UNC, falls to Wake Forest on road 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 12 Irish headed to Tobacco Road this weekend for a pair of matchups with No. 5 North Carolina and Wake Forest, splitting the two with a 5-2 loss to the Tar Heels Saturday and a 6-1 vic­tory over the Demon Deacons Sunday. 
Saturday started rough for Notre Dame (3-2) as it dropped each of the three doubles matchups. The com­binations of juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews, freshman Jennifer Kellner and sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan and sen­ior Kristen Rafael and fresh­man Julie Sabacinski could not overcome North Carolina’s dominant duos. 
Rafael and Sabacinski were the first to finish at No. 3 dou­bles, going down 8-1 to Gina Suarez-Malaguti and Zoe De Bruycker. 
At No. 1 doubles, Frilling and Mathews lost 8-3 to the No. 8 duo of Shinann Featherstone and Lauren McHale to clinch the doubles point. Kellner and McGaffigan put up a tough fight but fell 8­7 to Jelena Durisic and Tessa Lyons. 
On the singles side, the Irish made their ability to compete 
see LYONS/page 13 




