the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor: Stay off ground in Libya 
ND expert recommends ‘limited liability intervention’ for foreign troops in rebel conflict 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
As American and European forces strike Libya from the air, Professor Michael Desch, chair of the department of political sci­ence, said the most reasonable military action is to continue its “limited liability intervention strategy.” 
“It makes sense for us to inter­vene in Libya as opposed to other places we have in the past,” Desch said. “We can do so at a relatively low cost and indirectly through missiles and drones.” 
Violence first erupted in Libya in February when anti-govern­ment opponents rebelled against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. The nation is now in a state of civil war as the fighting escalated in recent weeks. 
On March 17, the United Nations Security Council author­ized foreign military action by 
U.N. members in Libya. The council’s aim was to protect civil­ians as Qaddafi’s army approached Benghazi, a large Libyan city and strategic rebel camp. 
American and European forces bombarded loyalist Libyan forces with warplanes and missiles but 
see LIBYA/page 5 




Former ND student sentenced six years 
Observer Staff Report 
A former Notre Dame student 
charged with child molestation 
received a six-year prison sen­
tence Friday after he engaged in 
sexual acts with a 12-year-old 
South Bend girl in April 2010, 
according to The South Bend 
Tribune. 
Ackley F. John, a senior at the time of his arrest, pleaded guilty in November to two counts of child molestation, both class B felonies. He was arrested on April 4 and released from the St. Joseph County Jail two days later after posting $3000 bond, according to court documents. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said John’s enrollment at Notre Dame ceased April 6. 
John said he met the girl on MySpace, and they spent time together on three occasions. According to court documents, the girl called John around 2:30 
a.m. on the day of his arrest and asked him to pick her up from a convenience store near her house. 
The girl said she performed oral sex on John that night, according to court documents, and he brought her to Notre Dame’s campus when she saw her father’s car outside her home. She said the two argued, and then he told her to go talk to a Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) officer nearby. NDSP then returned the girl to her parents. Mishawaka Police arrested John that morning. 
According to Indiana state law, any sexual intercourse or deviant sexual conduct with a child under 14 years old is considered child molestation. The Observer will not name the girl because she is a minor and the victim of a crime. 


Fall abroad cancelled for Cairo 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
The Office of International Studies (OIS) cancelled the Cairo study abroad program for fall 2011 after the University evacu­ated 12 Notre Dame students from the country earlier this semester. 
On Feb. 24, just a month after an uprising began in Egypt that led to the overthrow of President Hosni Mubarak, current sopho­mores accepted to the Cairo study abroad program received an email from OIS to inform them of the office’s decision. 
The status of the spring 2012 semester hosted at the American University in Cairo (AUC) remains uncertain. 
Students were able to apply to other study abroad programs for fall when the department can-celled the Cairo program. OIS also offered students the chance to study at the School for Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) in London. 
OIS Assistant Director Judy Hutchinson said the department 
see CAIRO/page 5 



Irish language sees surge 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
More people are currently embracing the Irish language than at any other time since the early 19th century, Notre Dame profes­sor Brian O’Conchubhair said, and those at Notre Dame are no excep­tion. 
O’Conchubhair is an associate professor of Irish in the Department of Irish Language and Literature and a faculty fellow in the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies. 
“Irish is currently undergoing a resurgence in comparison to what was happening in the nineteenth century,” O’Conchubhair said. “Before the Irish Potato Famine, there were approximately 6 [or] 7 million speakers of Irish in Ireland. Irish was a dominant language.” 
O’Conchubhair said Notre Dame students played a role in the effort to revive the language. 
“Irish was being taught here as a subject in the 1860s and 1870s before it was taught in the Irish universities,” he said. “That had to do with the fact that there were so many Irish immigrants at Notre Dame. [Students] were calling for an endowed chair of Irish.” 
The University further embraced its Irish tradition when it estab­lished an interdisciplinary Irish Studies program eighteen years ago and when it created a minor in Irish Language and Literature in 2004. 
This spring, the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies offered 24 courses from a number of departments across the University, according to the department website. Fifteen of those courses could be applied to a minor in Irish Language and Literature. The institute also offers internship and study abroad pro­grams in Dublin. 
Irish history shed light on the decline in the number of Irish speakers. 
O’Conchubhair said the mass deaths during the Famine and the subsequent patterns of immigra­tion contributed to a rapid decline in the number of Irish speakers. 
“The countries people are immi­grating to are English-language countries. Therefore, English becomes an essential feature in survival,” O’Conchubhair said. “English becomes the language of commerce … [and] national poli­tics.” 
O’Conchubhair said Ireland’s newspapers, books and religious texts were printed only in English. The educational system taught only English and a Catholic semi­nary that opened in 1795 taught clerics to minister solely in English as well. 
“The language of modernity [and] the language of social and cultural advancement is English,” O’Conchubhair said. “Irish is the language associated with poverty, backwardness, corruption, despair [and] destitution. If you want to 
see LANGUAGE/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER COR plans Japan outreach page 3  Football spring practice page 16  Dr. Horrible comes to campus page 9  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 23, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITOR: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Megan Doyle Chris Allen Anna Boarini Sam Gans Graphics Victoria Jacobsen Lauren Kalinoski Scene Photo Troy Matthew Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ON A SCALE OF ONE TO TEN, HOW WOULD YOU RATE YOURSELF? 





Evan Graham  Kevin Kho  Mo Connelly  Mark Dean  James Baker  
freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  
Knott  Knott  Ryan  Dillon  Dillon  
“9.4”  “9.81”  “6.9”  “8.5”  “3.141593”  


JAMES DOAN/The Observer Freshman Noah Rangel performs guitar in front of a crowd of students at Lectio Live. The event was held at Reckers Tuesday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Man charged with drunk driv­ing brings beer to hearing 
MONTICELLO, N.Y. — Authorities say a New York man appearing before a judge on a felony drunken driving charge arrived at court an hour and a half late, drunk and carrying an open can of Busch beer. 
Sullivan County Undersheriff Eric Chaboty says Keith Gruber of Swan Lake had four unopened beer cans in his bag Monday when he tried to walk through the metal detector at the county courthouse. 
The Middletown Times Herald-Record reports that Judge Frank LaBuda asked the 49-year-old Gruber if he enjoyed his “liquid lunch.” Gruber said he did, then said he was sorry. The judge 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Today Student Union Board is hosting SUB Patricks’s Day. At 10:30 a.m. until 11:45 a.m. giveaways will be handed out­side of Debartolo Hall.A cook­out with giveaways will take place on the fieldhouse mall from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. and at 5 
p.m. the winners of the golden nugget hunt will be announced. For more inforna­tion see sub.nd.edu. 
Starting at 10:30 a.m. a pair of talks will be given as a part of the Henkels Lecture Series by the Center for Research on Educational Opportunity. UCLA professors Patricia Gandara and Gary Orfield will speak on civil rights, educational policy, and minority opportunity in the Eck Visitors Center. This event is free and open to the public. 
At 4 p.m. Professor Wolfgang Mitting from Michigan State University will give a talk as a part of the Physics Colloquim on Nuclear Power and Global Energy Problems. The talk will be held in room 118 in Nieuwland Science Hall. 
At 4 p.m. Ramon A. Gutierrez Professor of History and director of Center for the Study of Race, Politics and Culture at the University of Chicago will give a lecture about Reies Lopez Tijerina and the Religious Origins of Mexican American Civil Rights Movement. The lec­ture will be held in McKenna Hall room 210-214. 
At 7 p.m., a showing of the film “Fields of Dreams” will be held at Legends. After the film, a talk will be given by Professor James McKenna. There will be free food for stu­dents. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Saturday Sunday 

revoked his bail and sent him to jail, where he remained Tuesday. 
Gruber was arrested Dec. 27 in the town of Liberty and was out on $30,000 cash bail. He has prior DWI convictions. 
The judge dismissed Gruber's court-appointed lawyer Monday because Gruber refused to cooperate with him. A phone number listed for Gruber was discon­nected. 
Paramedics now able to administer pet first aid 
DASHLAND, Ore. — Some Oregon firefighters and para­medics are now equipped and trained to give first aid to dogs, cats and other pets. 
The Daily Tidings reports that Ashland Fire & Rescue firefighters were trained last week to do CPR on dogs, cats, ferrets, gerbils and even rep­tiles that have inhaled smoke. All five department engines now carry oxygen masks for pets. 
Division Chief Greg Case says rescuing pets involved in fires helps the entire family. Firefighters treat people first and will help pets if possible. 
Veterinarian Dr. Alice Sievers says smaller animals can be placed inside the masks, while the devices can be fitted over the nose or beak of larger animals. 
The department received equipment through a donation from Project Breathe. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 


CORRECTIONS 
A March 10 article, "SMC reps discuss women in science," stated that "Celebrating the Education of Women in Science" Day will be hosted on March 
24. The correct date is March 26. The Observer regrets this error. 
Wednesday, March 23, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Librarian analyzes rare Bible 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Librarian Robert Hohl analyzed the College’s copy of the rare Saint John’s Bible dur­ing his Tuesday lecture in Vander Vennet Theatre. 
The Saint John’s Bible is one of only 299 copies of the handwrit­ten Benedictine Bible and is the first completely handwritten Bible of this scale created in the past 500 years, Hohl said. 
Hohl said he visited the original Saint John’s Abbey in Minnesota in September. During his trip, he said he learned more about the intricate work of the Bible’s main calligrapher, Donald Jackson, and his mission in creating the Saint John’s Bible. 
Hohl broke his discussion into three glances at the Bible — the “encyclopedic perspective,” the “living letter” and the “word con­joined with the Word.” 
His first glance, the encyclope­dic perspective, analyzed the knowledge preserved in the book through aesthetic details. 
“While the text is central, much of our delight … is found in the decorations and illuminations” Hohl said. 
The Bible is an illuminated manuscript, meaning it incorpo­rates a gold finish that causes the book to reflect light, Hohl said. This gold represents God and his presence in the literary work. 
“Even a square of gold or the tiniest fleck signals to us that God is present,” he said. 
In addition, the Bible includes flecks of platinum that reflected the reader’s image. 
The detail and hand-drawn intricate graphics support the text and help the reader interpret the story, Hohl said. 
Each book of the Saint John’s Bible reflects its medieval biblical precursor in regard to its draw­ings, incorporating imitations of plants and insects in a precise replication of the organisms. Hohl said in the first chapter of Matthew, Jackson even wove spi­rals of DNA into a graphic repre­senting Jesus and his ancestors. 

In addition, much of the medieval biblical writings incor­porated a sense of humor. In the Wisdom of Solomon, artist Chris Tomlin failed to incorporate a piece of text into its correct place, Hohl said. In order to correct the mistake, Tomlin included the text in a box at the bottom of the page and connected the box to a string on a pulley held by a bee. The bee was pulling the text into its proper place. 
His second glance focused on the “living letter,” or the contin­ued scriptural tradition of the Bible. 
Hohl said, “littera scripta manet. Atque viva — the written word remains. And it lives.” 
Each calligrapher, through their individual representation of the word, contributed to telling and preserving the word of the Lord for years to come. 
In his final glance, Hohl exam­ined the “word conjoined with the Word,” meaning the written text and its deeper meaning. 
“The zeal of preserving and passing on the ancient word still shines through the written manu­script,” Hohl said. 
The energy of the calligraphers emanates through the artistic style of the Bible, and helps breathe life into the Word, he said. 
The Saint John’s Bible is a sum of time, treasure and talent, Hohl said. 
The Bible was a gift from Saint Mary’s alumna Judy Rauenhorst Mahoney. It is available for view­ing at Saint Mary’s Cushwa-Leighton library. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Council plans outreach to Japan after disaster 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) discussed student body out­reach in response to the tsunami in Japan and the initial results from the push for student job board reform during its Tuesday meeting. 
Chief of staff Nick Ruof spoke about student government’s initial plans for fundraising on campus for Japan. 
“Right now student government is formulating a plan to do some fundraising to support some mis­sions in Japan,” he said. “We’re in the works to set up collections in the dorms ... a bucket for dona­tions after mass, and we’re looking for other locations around campus to collect money.” 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said fundraising will a concentrated effort. 
“We’re shooting for Sunday afternoons to be the main collec­tion time,” he said. 
Representatives from the Notre Dame Japan Club and the Asian American Association informed members about their current fundraising plans. Japan Club President Natalie Fang said the club plans to work with two local organizations, pending approval from the Student Activities Office (SAO). 
“Japan Club has decided on the Japan-American Society of Indiana because we know all the money will go directly to Japan,” Fang said. “IUSB is already involved so it would be a local effort.” 
Fang said the club also plans to work with the Diocese of Sendai in Japan. She said the diocese was an appropriate choice since Sendai was the first region hit and work­ing with a diocese is consistent with Notre Dame’s Catholic identi­ty. 
On campus, the clubs are plan­ning three joint fundraising proj­ects. They will be selling Japan aid t-shirts and wristbands, holding a dinner-show and will be offering origami birds for donations through their Cranes Project, Fang said. 
Student body president Catherine Soler also gave mem­bers an update on the reform and the recommendations her admin­istration presented to the Office of Student Employment. 
“They confirmed the link on the ‘current student’ page [of the University website],” she said. “They’ve also confirmed that the search for the job board on the website will lead directly there.” 
Soler said the office also changed the process of informing incoming students about employment oppor­tunities. They will now send infor­mation along with the financial aid award letter earlier in the summer rather than in August. The office also created a student employment handout to make information more accessible to students at open houses and campus visits. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


College premieres online journal 
professor of psychology, said the 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
College established CWIL 11 years 
News Writer 
ago. Pittman is co-editor of the 
journal, along with French 
Saint Mary’s Center for Women’s Professor Julie A. Storme. Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) Pittman said the journal is “real­introduced its first journal pub-ly an opportunity for Saint Mary’s lished online March 7 to broaden College to be on the cutting edge of the scope of its discussion between providing information about how scholars, researchers and commu-to be leaders in this diverse nity activists. world.” 
Catherine Pittman, associate The organization is deeply root­ed in the traditions of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 

The leaders of CWIL decided to launch the scholarly journal, the Journal for Women’s Intercultural Leadership (JWIL), online after they hosted a conference on women’s intercultural leadership. 
At the conference, the women said they realized no one published research about women’s intercul­tural leadership. 
“It seemed natural to think of an online journal sponsored by CWIL that would allow researchers and practitioners to publish their work,” Storme said. 
JWIL is not all about women, however, Pittman said. The journal focuses on intercultural leadership, women’s issues, and leadership issues. JWIL is the first journal published by the College. 
The other members of the JWIL editorial board contribute to the journal from universities across the globe. 
Pittman said printing JWIL in paper form was a possibility, but the group believed online media would be more forward and visible to the public. 
While JWIL is primarily for fac­ulty publishers, community activists, scholars and researchers, students are welcome to partici­pate in discussion in the journal. 
“It provides a model of serious research to our students, especial­ly those involved in CWIL,” Storme said. 
Pittman said she hopes people realize the JWIL is a way to make Saint Mary’s a more avid promoter for CWIL and leaders across the world. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 23, 2011 Wednesday, March 23, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


European status in 2007 and the draw Qaddafi further from his Unlike a traditional army, the recent proliferation of Irish news-consolidation of power. rebellion organized loosely, lacks 
Libya 
Language 
papers, writers and filmmakers. continued from page 1 the anti-Qaddafi forces have and does not possess strong 
“The challenge now is whether discipline to use heavy weapons 
continued from page 1 “Popularity manifests itself in enough capability to continue firearms. Pro-Qaddafi forces, 
people’s attitudes towards Irish,” did not attack on the ground. their fight on the ground. They while few in number, hold tanks 
progress, [you] need to speak he said. “It’s no longer seen as a American ships struck first to dis-have see-sawed back and forth,” and heavy weapons in their mili-
English. The outlook for Irish at subject only learned in school. It’s able missile, radar and communi-he said. “Because the anti-tary tool belt. 
the end of the nineteenth century now seen as a hip language, as a cation centers. An air attack is Qaddafi forces are not military “The hope is what remains of 
is very bleak.” language of TV personalities, as a designed to prevent further rebel professionals, some tactical the Libxyan military will decide 
Several organizations attempted language of sports stars. It’s now and civilian bloodshed, and the reverses have had a greater effect the country’s in deep trouble in a 
to restore the Irish language in the almost countercultural.” United Nations’ action allowed on them than they would on disci-state of civil war and install a 
1880s and 1890s, O’Conchubhair O’Conchubhair said the revival is rebel forces to regroup in the east. plined troops.” more popular government,” 
said. The Irish language received about the use of the Irish language Desch said international forces European and American inter-Desch said. 
the support of the Irish Free outside academia. were right to act against Qaddafi’s vention bought the rebellion time This military game of cat-and­
State’s native government when “The revival will be successful if forces but should not engage the to regroup, Desch said. However, mouse will need time to play out, 
the State was founded in 1922. some form of vernacular Irish sur-Libyan army on the ground. By a stalemate may be just over the he said, but Libyans on the 
O’Conchubhair also said during vives as an urban, communal lan­limiting American involvement to horizon because the government’s ground must fight eventually. 
the American Civil War the 69th guage,” he said. “[It’s] important air and sea attacks, Desch said loyalist forces lack mobility, and “The more we can internation-
Infantry Regiment used a flag that because it shows that … every American forces could set reason-rebel forces have no heavy alize this, the better, especially 
contains an Irish phrase meaning, generation has a choice to make, able goals for its involvement in weapons. with Arab and Muslim countries,” 
“They never retreated from a whether to embrace their cultural the Middle East. “Pro-Qaddafi forces have tried Desch said. “We don’t have a 
sword.” Notre Dame possesses the heritage or discard it, and this It would be a humanitarian dis-to move heavy equipment to rebel great interest in the outcome 
original flag. generation has made their choice. aster if Qaddafi forces wiped out territory. French, British and aside from preventing a humani­
O’Conchubhair said the resur-The sense of shame appears to the rebellion in its violent manner, American forces just shoot them tarian catastrophe.” 
gence of Irish is due largely to the have been dispelled.” Desch said, but with U.N. support like fish in a barrel,” he said. “But 
foundation of an Irish language in the air, the substantial indige-for anti-Qaddafi forces to dislodge Contact Nicole Toczauer at 
television station in 1996, the Irish Contact Marisa Iati at nous force on the ground can them will be a challenge.” ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Free State’s acquisition of miati@nd.edu 
“Libya is the next door country to the west of Egypt, and you had 

Cairo 
masses of immigrants moving continued from page 1 and shortages in food and all 
that,” she said. “You want our has been busy exploring options students to be there and have a for the students accepted into the good experience and study safe-Cairo program for next year. ly.” 
“We are trying desperately to Concerns about student safety 
find out what to do with the 26 extend outside of Cairo, Mayinja students that we accepted to go said. abroad next year,” she said. “We Sophomore Garrett Ward was want to place students, if we can accepted to study the fall semes­at all place them. It is their thing ter at the AUC, but he switched to go abroad, it is very impor-his program to study in Athens. 
tant. We’re trying to find ways if “I decided I would rather take Cairo is not the place, as many the certainty of going abroad students as possible can have a rather than hoping that things relevant abroad experience.” with Egypt and the Middle East 
OIS Associate Director Julliet in general would clear up by the Mayinja said while the depart-fall,” he said. ment has explored academic Sophomore Joe Massad was 
options in the region, the AUC accepted to the spring Cairo pro-remains the most feasible option gram. He said while he is hopeful in the Middle East because of its to study in Egypt, he is intent on range in studies. exploring all available options. 
“Cairo is our place,” she said. “I am still considering switch­“We have done a lot of searching ing programs because studying for other alternatives but AUC is abroad is a once in a lifetime a university that encompasses opportunity,” Massad said. everything we value. It offers sci-“Unfortunately, there are no ences, business. It offers engi-other specifically Arabic options, neering, it offers arts and letters, so I really hope the unrest settles it offers languages.” down, though it is quite unlike-
Hutchinson said a number of ly.” factors would decide the fate of Ward said OIS handled the dif­the spring 2012 program in ficult situation well, remaining Cairo. informative and accommodating. 
“If I were a political analyst, I “[OIS was] quick to get the pool could make a guess, but unfortu-of accepted students all the info nately I don’t know,” she said. “It they had and keep them up to is going to depend on the election date on what OIS was doing and that is supposedly in the fall. It is what our options were,” he said. going to depend on the Middle “For me personally, they allowed East. We really don’t know.” me to reapply to other study 
Mayinja said political unrest in abroad programs after the dead-Libya, Egypt’s neighbor, would line had passed so that I would also determine the future of the have an option besides Cairo.” Cairo program. Massad said he was under­
whelmed with how OIS respond­ed to students potentially losing the experience of studying in the Middle East. 

“They offered us the chance to switch programs and added an International Relations and Arabic option for London, but that misses the cultural experi­ence of living the Arab world entirely,” he said. “When options like other Arab countries abound, I was disappointed to find out that OIS would not pur­sue any of these opportunities.” 
Ward said OIS made the right decision in placing student safety as its highest priority in deciding the status of the program. 
“As much as I would have liked to go to Cairo, OIS made the right call canceling the program,” he said. “I wish the situation were different but I do not see how the university could responsibly send students to a region with this much unrest.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, March 23, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Three’s company 
I have a 3 on my chest right now. Not a “III” or even a “three” but a 3. It’s not a tattoo or a brand or even a draw­ing on me when I passed out on my friend’s futon (Sharpie art...). 
The only rea-
Matthew DeFranks 
son for my new mark: Karma is Sports a beach. Production 
Over Spring Editor Break, I saun­tered to Miami Beach in search of a fun time and to regain my good ol’ Florida tan. Naturally, I — a born and raised Miamian — wanted to brag to my northern friends that I was at the beach while they were stuck in dreary 50-degree weather. A picture message or two later, my mission was accom­plished. 
Because I did not want to end up as red as Rick Pitino’s face, I had to put some sun screen on. I sprayed my arms and back and legs and shoulders and feet and face and toes and neck and ears. Someone forgot to tell me, though, that I needed to a) hold the spray bottle further away or b) rub in the sun screen. Thus, I was 0-for-2 on those accounts and paid the price for my streaky spraying. 
A couple hours in the Florida sun later and the damage was done. I had a white streak parting the red sea on my chest, coincidentally shaped like a 3 (or a “Z”, depending on how you look at it). 
Or was it a coincidence? Maybe it was a sign that I was the fourth mem­ber of the Holy Trinity? Maybe it was a sign that Dwyane Wade is the best player in the NBA? Or maybe it sig­naled that I am the second coming of Dale Earnhardt (other than Dale Earnhardt Jr., of course)? 
Instead of a sleek, socially accept­able, even-keel tan, I had the Mississippi River pictured on my chest. It looked as if someone had snuck up on me and graffiti’d my chest with white spray paint. Had I not noticed a snake chilling on my chest while I was laying down? 
The moral of my story can be summed up in one word: Do-not­flaunt-to-your-friends-that-you-are-in­a-tropical-climate-on-the-beach-while­they-are-stuck-in-chilly-New-England. 
This principle can even be applied to the hopefully upcoming spring at Notre Dame. Don’t get me wrong — North Quad and South Beach are not the same, not even close. North Quad is missing a few minor details, namely, an ocean and some sand. 
Anyways, when you are throwing a football outside North Dining Hall, do not remind your friend stuck in DeBartolo how awesome your life is right now (unless, of course, you’re trying to keep them awake during his­tory class). When you are playing spike ball on South Quad, hold back from telling your buddy working on a mar­keting project how sick it is. 
I know I have learned my lesson. My chest tells me so. 
(Matthew DeFranks is a freshman and is looking for volunteers to rub aloe vera on his chest.) 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Inspiration and persperation 
We stand in awe of masters. We admire the skill involved when Kobe Bryant effort­lessly drains a contested fadeaway. We sit enraptured by Anthony Hopkins’s nuanced portrayal of Hannibal Lecter, listen trans­fixed to Jimmi Hendrix’s famous guitar. We hear about the theories of great astrophysicists or the complicated procedures per­formed by brain surgeons and admire the sheer amount of mastery Edward Larkin involved. We both appreciate expert 

Scientific 
performances in 
Notation 
the moment and dream about some­day replicating them ourselves. 
Yet, as much as I would like to experi­ence the thrill of being Kobe Bryant, I have an innate sense that it would be an extremely unlikely turn of events for my life to take. Between myself and Kobe Bryant, there are undeniable genetic advantages that make him more inclined to succeed in the game of basketball. This idea of genetic supremacy extends to other fields where the physical barriers to entry might not be so high — we read about the greatest entrepreneurs, business mag­nates, scientists, actors and musicians and simply assume that they have an uncanny natural ability. They must have expert DNA. Only then can we rationalize that kind of ability to excel in a craft. Their inspiration must be biologically hardwired. 
This is not true. As Jonah Lehrer writes in his Wired Magazine blog, “Frontal Cortex,” researchers over the past twenty years have found that most important fac­tor that predicts success is deliberate prac­tice. This is inspiring news for all of us mortals who had long assumed that we didn’t have the raw capacity to succeed in various fields. However, before we rejoice too much, we must consider what exactly “deliberate practice” entails. 
Deliberate practice is not easy, nor fun. Psychologist Angela Duckworth has ele­gantly highlighted the difference between deliberate and typical practice through her work on spelling bees. She found that the most successful candidates in spelling bees painstakingly memorized words alone rather than doing leisure reading or study­ing with others. Obviously, this form of practice was rated the least enjoyable of all types. Thus, the ability to consistently engage in deliberate practice such as this has been given the name “grit.” 
But wait. What if it is all genetic, after all? What if some people are much more predisposed towards “grit” than others? I suspect that this is certainly true to an extent. We all know people who can simply push themselves much harder than we can, no matter how singular our focus. However, for the most part, this should be heartening news to all of us. While it might be difficult for some of us to consistently engage in deliberate practice, it is not absolutely impossible. So instead of being simply genetically inferior, it appears quite possible for us to attain mastery through long periods of deliberate practice. Not impossible, but difficult. 
The most fascinating questions that arise from this body of research relates to our society’s ability to nurture grit. Is deliber­ate, focused practice over a long period of time feasible in a world where the refresh button on Twitter or Facebook is one click away? My answer would be yes, although it is more difficult than it used to be. Many studies have shown, or attempted to show, the loss of sustained attention among today’s youth due to modern technologies. But, these technologies add enormous advantages at the same time. Take the spelling bee studying example — a speller will certainly save massive amounts of time by googling words rather than sifting through a dictionary for each. 
Another provocative question involves how we evaluate people for admission and employment. Lehrer relates fascinating evidence about the NFL combine: Studies show that there is no relationship between combine performance and success in a professional career. He theorizes that this is because combines measure raw physical ability, rather than sustained habits. These findings should be carefully studied by col­lege and graduate school admissions offi­cers. We all know how important those infamous tests are — SATs, ACTs, MCATs, LSATs, GMATs. If universities truly want future leaders, there need to be better mechanisms to both measure and nurture grit. GPA is certainly an improvement in this type of measurement, as it relates per­formance over a much longer time period than the four hours to complete a stan­dardized test. However, it still does not pro­vide an accurate indication of one’s ability to remain focused on one goal for an extended period of time and do the painful work required to gain mastery. 
As a society, we should do what we can to foster grit. One thing is certain — grit requires humility. It requires an ability to put one’s head down. It requires the knowledge that success is attainable through incredibly hard work and sus­tained attention. Feelings of self-entitle­ment, a desire to game the system, to get rich quick, to give in to every miniscule pleasure, do not mix well with grit. We in America have work to do to return to this sort of humility. In the 1950s, 12 percent of Americans thought they were “very impor­tant people.” In the late 1980s, 80 percent did. Other fascinating studies show that American parents praise their children’s performances on tests, while Asian parents routinely praise hard work. Psychologists have found that when presented with very difficult tests and tasks, children who have had their hard work praised are much more likely to persevere and outperform. 
These trends are by no means unfixable. I imagine the belt-tightening that will undoubtedly occur over the next decades as we adjust to a new fiscal situation may inspire a new national humility. I certainly hope this result does indeed occur. Gordon Gekko famously summed up the ugly underbelly of American psychology when he said “Greed is Good.” We should hope as a society to replace greed with grit. 
Edward Larkin is a senior majoring in biological sciences and classical civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Do not think of knocking outanother person’s brains because hediffers in opinion from you. It wouldbe as rational to knock yourself onthe head because you differ fromyourself ten years ago.” 
Horace Mann 
U.S. educator 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Discretion in speech is more thaneloquence.” 
Sir Francis Bacon English author & philosopher 
The Observer 
Viewpoint Wednesday, March 23, 2011 page 7 
The college student’s case for health reform 
This op-ed was written for the one-year ates and other young people with little the job market, since you may find that ing coverage to anyone based on a pre­anniversary (Mar. 23) of the signing of recourse, and worse: no health insur-health care coverage is not immediately existing condition will be banned. Annual the Affordable Care Act, which allows ance. Historically, some 30 percent of available through your employer. Or you dollar caps on care (which are already parents to maintain health insurance on young adults have been uninsured, a rate may work part time. You may choose to limited) will be prohibited, and state-their children until age 26. far higher than that of any other age continue your education and go to gradu-based health insurance exchanges will 
group. ate school, or take time off to travel and create a new marketplace, giving more 
A year ago this week, President Obama But young people don’t need health pursue volunteer opportunities. employers and millions of Americans the signed the Affordable Care Act. The law insurance, right? It allows you to remain on your par-ability to purchase affordable coverage. enacts significant health insurance The statistics say Hilda Solis ents’ plan, or rejoin it until age 26, even The Affordable Care Act is based on reforms that will take effect over the next otherwise: One-if you no longer live with your parents, the simple belief that every American — several years. But one very important in-six young are not a dependent on their tax return and that includes college students —
Guest 
piece of that law is already in place. And adults today is or are no longer a student. The new flex-deserves access to high-quality, afford-
Columnist 
it may directly benefit you. faced with a ibility even applies if you are married. able health care. One year after it has 
The Affordable Care Act ensures that chronic illness You are guaranteed the same benefits become law, that belief is becoming reali­college students and young adults can such as cancer, diabetes or asthma. And and at the same price that is available to ty. stay on their parents’ employer-provided nearly half of uninsured young adults other dependents. health care plans until age 26. Before, report problems paying medical bills. More health care improvements are on Hilda Solis is the U.S. Secretary of many health plans and issuers dropped The new law ensures you have an the way — and many may also directly Labor. young adults from their parents’ policies option when it comes to your health care. benefit you. Already, coverage cannot be The views expressed in this column are because of their age. That left countless This is important as you continue denied for those under age 19 because of those of the author and not necessarily college students, recent college gradu-through school and as you transition into a pre-existing condition. By 2014, deny-those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 
What if the next president doesn’t know history? 
The gaffe has found its way on numer­ous websites: Michele Bachmann mistak­enly confused New Hampshire’s Concord with Massachusetts’, botching history along the way. She is not alone in her per­
sonal revisionism:  
Gov. Haley  Humza Bokhari  
Barbour of  
Mississippi seems  Harvard  
to have forgotten  Political  
much of the injus- Review  
tices towards  
African- 

Americans in the history of his state. Mike Huckabee, in his own right, seems to have gone back in time and placed a young Obama in Kenya, where he supposedly learned about the Mau Mau Revolution from an anti-British perspective. 
Did they simply misspeak? Or is there a serious lack of knowledge of historical facts in the Republicans’ top crop? And if so, should we be worried? My answers would be “no,” “yes,” and “absolutely.” 
Maybe this isn’t surprising given that many Americans actually don’t have a solid grasp of much of our nation’s past. But then again, most Americans aren’t running for President. We can be forgiv­ing if a passing pedestrian doesn’t know about New England’s geography, Mississippi’s racial conflict history or basic facts about our President’s life. But if you’re the President of the United States, who needs to know how to avoid fighting the wrong wars, how to revitalize 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
the economy, how to improve education and infrastructure and how to get our nation on the right track, you need to understand America’s past. It is impera­tive that our President know what the Presidents before them did. 
Conservatives may be furious with the fact that the “liberal elite media” is ecstat­ically plastering Bachmann’s, Huckabee’s and Barbour’s gaffes all over the internet; to note, Conservatives4Palin has com­pared Bachmann’s fallacies with Obama accidentally calling Europe a country — but the analogy doesn’t work. While it is clear Obama misspoke, we cannot confi­dently state that Bachmann did the same. The “lamestream media” is right to call her, and other contenders, out. As for Bachmann, she should have known the basic facts about the Revolution. She was clearly using her non-fact to pander to New Hampshire voters, so we know that she was trying to use the fiction to her advantage. But it’s essential to properly understand our nation’s founding. How else can a President best understand a nation’s fundamental principles? 
This problem is especially pertinent because she was incorrectly educating voters. Our President needs to know the basic facts, and New Hampshire’s resi­dents need to know the truth about their legacy. America rests on its foundation — let’s not forget what it’s made of, and let’s especially not misconstrue realities in order to win votes. TheTea Party move­ment itself is a reference to America’s past. Should it not be founded on an accu­rate understanding of what happened? 
When you look at Barbour, you see everything the GOP does not want in a mainstream candidate. Though he is an effective governor who has served Mississippi well over the years, his histori­cal blurring of racial injustices is deeply concerning. In a nation with a deep and troubled racial past, injustices are still alive and well. To airbrush history is to do injury to not just the truth, but also to our society. If people forget the mistakes and trials of the past, how can they possibly make amends? A President should be more responsible and should have the courage to acknowledge mistakes and be ready to further equality. The status quo is not enough. 
Most unjust, however, may have been Huckabee’s dishonest jab at President Obama, claiming that Obama was influ­enced by a childhood in Kenya. We know that Obama did not grow up in Kenya and barely knew his own father. To claim that the Mau Mau incident shaped Obama’s worldview — and affected his decision to swap a bust of Churchill with a bust of Lincoln — is rather ridiculous. (The bust, by the way, went to another room, not back to Britain, according to Salon.com’s Steve Kornacki.) Salon.com’s Joan Walsh correctly notes that “if he’d traded Lincoln for Churchill the same people would be attacking him as a snobby Europhile.” Walsh is absolutely right: It is a strange hypocrisy that seeks to derail Obama’s presidency. Republicans need to accept the facts that Obama was born in the U.S. and grew up in Hawaii and Indonesia. Of course, for Huckabee to then claim he was actually referring to Indonesia is ludicrous. Again, as Walsh notes, there was obviously no Mau Mau Revolution in Indonesia. And if Huckabee thought there was, then there are serious issues with his grasp of history — a presi­dent needs to understand international history to successfully shape international diplomacy. 
America’s President faces an extremely difficult job. He or she needs to be some­one who knows exactly what is going on today, what went on yesterday and what went on ten, or even over a hundred years ago in order to best understand what needs to be done tomorrow. He can’t hesitate; he must have his facts right to begin with. Imagine if our 45th President started a war for the wrong reasons? Some feel that has already happened once. We can’t afford to let it happen again. 
This article first appeared in the March 15 edition of The Harvard Political Review, the daily publication serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Impress that cutie in your next class. 
Get your letter published in The Observer. 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 
Scene
page 8 Wednesday, March 23, 2011 

By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 
The British duo of Simon Pegg and Nick Frost teamed up with Seth Rogen for this sci-fi comedy blending “ET” with “Shawn of the Dead.” While certainly having its funny moments, “Paul” was merely an average comedy with little taking it to the next level. Still, if you’re looking for something to entertain you for a while it just might be worth it. 
The movie starts with Graeme Willy (Pegg) and Clive Gollings (Frost) visiting America to see Comic-con and promote their graphic novel with a tri-breasted most notorious alien conspiracy zones. 
After leaving Area 51, they witness a car wreck and decide to take a look, only to find an alien nearby. This alien, Paul (Rogen), proves to be hilarious and some much needed comic relief to the two’s trip. Paul enrolls Graeme and Clive to help him get home and run away from the authorities that want to kidnap Paul. 
The trio’s antics lead them to a trailer park where they meet Christian cre­ationist enthusiast Ruth Buggs (Kristen Wiig). After she discovers Paul’s exis­tence (by intelligent design according to her), Graeme and Clive decide it would alien and geeks. 
Meanwhile, two average cops who are always left in the dark and a bit reminis­cent of “The Other Guys” get called up to help with the case and provide the funniest antics in the entire movie. Played by Bill Hader (“Saturday Night Live”) and Joe Lo Truglio (the guy from “Superbad” that hits Jonah Hill with his car), the two cops did all they could to save the film. 
Overall, this was a fairly predictable movie with a proven lineup of funny people to entertain those not expecting too much. Not horrible by any means, “Paul” was moderately funny but cer-
Paul 
Universal Pictures 
Director: Greg Mottola Starring: Seth Rogen, Simon Pegg, Nick Frost 

woman on the front. They follow up the  be best to kidnap her from her overly  tainly not the next “Harold and Kumar  
convention by fulfilling one of their  protective father. This adds another car  go to White Castle” but it could have  Contact Ankur Chawla at  
biggest dreams: touring the nation’s  to the long line of those chasing the  been a lot worse.  achawla@nd.edu  


Over Christmas break, I was sitting at my kitchen table, wondering about the state of the world and my place in it. Well, mostly, I was just doing the almost-but­not-yet graduated dance, wondering what I was going to do with my life. A par­ticularly profound thought struck me that, as of May 23rd, I will no longer be under the control and guid­ance — and finan­cial care — of the cash cow. I’m not referring to my parents — who I would never refer to as the cash cow, but something more refined, like the cash llama or the cash flying unicorn — but the illustrious institution that is Notre Dame. 
This might seem a paradox, since Notre Dame is that glorious entity which sucks bucks from our savings accounts and parental send-my-kid-to-college pots, but in my experience, Notre Dame is a great place to get free money, also known as grants for unique study of a specific topic related to one’s major. I am —as my smattering of readers already know — a music and film/TV major. I’ve gotten grants before, so it disheartened me greatly to realize that in three months I’ll no longer be able to whip open the grant common app and develop a new project, completely funded by the woman atop the dome. Which is why I immediately texted a fellow music major and said, “Wanna go to Vienna for spring break?” 

Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Brahms, Strauss, Schumann, Mahler, Schonberg, Webern and Berg all had some sort of massive connection to Vienna. Most are buried there. And that’s pretty much a greatest hits list of music history. So last week, three voice majors and I found ourselves sitting pretty, tight in the womb of Austrian Air, on our way to the original music city. This unique venue — my leg-roomy seat next to a fel­low performance-minded Domer on an international flight — is where today’s tantrum takes place. Might I now direct your attention to the delightfully fruitful state of children’s animated film? 
My musical comrade and I’s choice for in-flight entertainment was the animated Disney film, “Tangled,” which opened in 2010 and was politely ignored by most of the wider industry. I assumed it would be a pleasant little film, with voices by Mandy Moore and Zachary Levi, which would only be worth my time because I didn’t really have much else to do. Instead, it was a great movie, with catchy music and truly funny moments. My friend and I were laughing out loud and smiling the whole time, except for the unpredictable climax, which had me clutching my stuffed ducky and staring intently at the little five-inch screen with the attention and devotion of someone watching Boromir’s death scene. 
It was a fabulous movie, and if I had kids, I would certainly have taken them to see it. When it was over I turned to fall asleep, but my friend, visibly delighted by the film, put his headphones back on and decided to watch it again. This got me thinking — is there any movie in the past year, or past five years, that I would hon­estly want to watch twice in a row? Nay say I, but in that moment I did honestly contemplate joining in a second time. Why? What was it about this seemingly throwaway animated movie that made me feel so content with my entertain­ment? 
In the past year, “Toy Story 3,” “How to Train Your Dragon” and “Tangled,” all were released to strong reviews and achieved very successful box office num­bers. Yet their coverage and popularity was all but drowned out by Oscar’s heavy hitters such as “The King’s Speech” and “Black Swan.” 
Last semester in Film Theory, our pro­fessor walked in and told us “How to Train Your Dragon” was the best film he’d seen all year. I rolled my eyes. A non-Disney animated movie? Seriously? But I saw it before Christmas, and it was, indeed, fabulous – especially the orches­tral score. “Toy Story 3” is the only movie I’ve ever seen that made middle-aged men cry as hard as 13-year-old girls. And here was my friend, sitting on an airplane watching “Tangled” twice in a row. Which leads me to think — why aren’t we going to see more animated children’s movies? They are doing something right! 
The Academy instituted the award for Best Animated Feature in 2001, with hopes that it would bring more prestige and attention to animated films. Unfortunately, it also pegged most ani­mated films to a singular destiny of get­ting the honor of being nominated for an Oscar only to lose to Pixar’s offering of the year, as has been the case for the past four years and counting. It also means that nobody bothered to vote for “Toy Story 3” for Best Picture, since everyone knew it was getting a golden haul any­way. 
So here’s my call to my collegiate cohorts: go out and watch the animated movies you planned on seeing only if it were on in your friend’s room, or if you had to take your little sister. They are worth your time, and often far more satis­fying than the big-name movies hogging the marquee. I saw “Black Swan.” I was intrigued, scared and ultimately unim­pressed. It doesn’t take that much to act crazy and anxious for an hour-and-a-half. It is, however, quite an accomplishment to convince someone to be swept into a fan­tasy world and make a bid for human dignity. Especially when you’re doing it with dragons. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Stephanie DePrez can be contacted at sdeprez@nd.edu. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Wednesday, March 23, 2011 page 9 


On campus 
What: “Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog”Where: Washington Hall, Lab Theater When: Friday, March 25 at 6 p.m.;Saturday, March 26 at 3:30 and 6 p.m.; Sunday March 27 at 6p.m. How much: $5 Learn more: Email Brian Rodgers atbrodgers@nd.edu to reserve tickets 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 23, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men’s rowing scrimmages in Tennessee over break 
Men’s rugby, women’s water polo and men’s and women’s ultimate squads hit the road to train 
Special to the Observer 
The Irish rowers traveled to Oak Ridge, Tenn. for spring break to gain valuable time on the water leading up to the beginning of the spring season. The team practiced 18 times over the course of the week, culminating in a Saturday morning scrimmage against Skidmore College, the University of New Hampshire and Army. 
The top three Notre Dame varsity eights handily beat Skidmore’s top boat. The first novice eight won both pieces of the novice event, beating the top New Hampshire boat by open water, closely fol­lowed by the second Notre Dame novice eight, Army, and Skidmore. The Irish will travel to Indianapolis Sunday to race Purdue. 
Men’s Rugby 
Men’s rugby traveled to Baton Rouge, La. over the weekend and posted a 15-11 upset of nationally ranked LSU. The Irish trailed 11-0 before mounting a comeback and registering the first upset of an elite team in the coun­try. 
Women’s Water Polo 
The Irish water polo team traveled to southern California this past week for a spring break training trip. 
The Irish started the week off strong with a 7-6 victory over their host, the University of California Santa Barbara. The Irish led for most of the game, but the fourth quarter ended with a tied score of 6­
6. The Irish battled UCSB in two quarters of sudden death overtime before coming up with the winning goal on an exclusion play. 
After a day off, the Irish traveled to the University of California San Bernardino for a scrimmage against the Coyotes. UC-San Bernardino won the scrimmage by a score of 10-5. 
Thursday the team scrim­maged the Huntington Beach club team at Huntington Beach High School, compet­ing with a group of experi­enced players. 
The Irish rounded out the week Friday with an excel­lent scrimmage against San Diego State. The scrimmage provided the Irish with an opportunity to work closely on their offense. 
The Irish will travel to the University of Miami (Ohio) this weekend for one of the biggest tournaments of the year. 
Ultimate men’s squad 
Both the Notre Dame men’s ultimate A and B teams trav­eled to Cookeville, Tenn., over the first weekend of spring break to compete in the Matthew Hopper Memorial. The A team fin­ished a disappointing second-place in the tournament. 
The Irish were undefeated in pool play, defeating Illinois B, Kent State and Carson Newman handily before fac­ing Wheaton in a crossover game to end the day. 
Earning a bye into the semifinals, Notre Dame knocked off Wisconsin B 13-8 to reach the finals. Senior John Miller and junior James Denue patrolled the field against the taller Wisconsin team, while juniors Will Cernanec and Adam Barsella constantly made themselves open for throws from senior handlers Patrick Kozak, Jon Holland and Justine Browne. The men’s B team finished 13th. 
The A and B teams spent the second weekend of spring break competing at Southerns in Statesboro, Ga. against some of the top com­petition in the country. The A team finished sixth with their only loss coming against eventual tournament cham­pion Tufts while the B team finished tied for 29th in the 40-team tournament. 
The A team had comfort­able wins in their first three games of pool play. The return of sophomore cutter Zack Woodruff and freshman cutter Conor Hanney from injuries helped the team. Notre Dame was without sophomore Jonathon Koch. 
Notre Dame first faced Chicago in knockout play. The Irish were able to secure a few early breaks and com­fortably defeated their rival before falling in the quarter­finals to Tufts. 
The B team defeated Mary Washington in their first game Sunday before losing to George Mason in the second round. Captains Charlie Landis, a senior, and Sean Jackson, a junior, turned in strong performances. The B team will compete in their fourth tournament in four weeks next weekend at the Chicago Invite. 
Ultimate women’s squad 
The Notre Dame women’s ultimate frisbee team trav­eled to Wilmington, N.C. March 12-13 for Women’s College Easterns, a highly competitive tournament. In pool play, Notre Dame squared off against Wisconsin, Virginia and Yale. The Irish fell to Wisconsin, who finished second in the tournament. After the 13-3 loss, the women lost 12-8 to Virginia but began to improve their cutter flow. In the final game of pool play, the Irish defeated Yale 10-8 in a close battle. Sophomore Kelsey Taylor made smart cuts while senior Amy Bilek helped break apart Yale’s zone defense. 
The women moved on to knockout play, but a 13-7 loss to Texas dropped the Irish to the consolation bracket, where they lost two out of three games Sunday to finish 12th overall at Easterns. 
The women’s B team com­peted at Easterns in a pool with SUNY-Buffalo, Liberty, American and Towson. The team opened play with a 9-8 win over SUNY-Buffalo before falling 8-5 to Liberty and 11-2 to American. Sophomore captain Courtney Iversen organized smart lines while sophomore Devlin Lynch caught nearly every disk within her vicinity. The team closed play on the first day with an 11-3 loss to Towson. The women fell to Harvard 13-1 in their final match of the tournament Sunday. 
Playing in their third straight weekend tourna­ment, the Irish women’s ulti­mate team traveled to Statesboro, Ga. to battle tough heat and tough compe­tition at College Southerns. The women finished the weekend 4-3, their most promising finish so far this season. 
The B team played Ohio State, Wellesley and South Florida in pool play. They suffered a tough loss to Ohio State, which eventually fin­ished second in the tourna­ment. The women rallied against Wellesley but couldn’t quite find their rhythm, los­ing 13-1. Sophomore Betty Graham’s strong throwing was a highlight for the Irish in the first two games of the day. The team closed play with a 9-7 loss to South Florida. 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Team effort leads to eight victories in Florida tournament 
the star and outshining everyone. her only loss coming in a seven-together a list of things to work on, adjust to being back at school, 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Some games, the top of the lineup inning outing in the Belle’s season and besides that it’s just really which presents an interesting set of 
Sports Writer 
came through for us, some games opener against SUNY-Brockport. minor details. It all looked really challenges for the student-athletes. 
the bottom of the lineup came The offensive attack was equally good.” “The only challenge we have is 
Following a successful week in through. It was really great to see impressive for the Belles during The Belles hope to carry their when you come back [from the Fort Myers, Fla., the Belles prepare that they were all just a very cohe-their trip, especially on day two, superb play back to South Bend, Spring Break tournament], you are to host Goshen in a doubleheader sive team.” when Saint Mary’s outscored its two with NAIA opponent Goshen (4-5) back to real life,” she said. “You for their home opener. The Belles relied heavily on a opponents, Kenyon and Mass.-coming in for a doubleheader. have classes, and you are busy 
Saint Mary’s (8-2) lost the first and number of juniors during the tour-Dartmouth, by a combined score of Sullivan feels confident that her again. Spring break has beautiful last games of its spring break tour-nament — none more than pitcher 24-0. Against Mass.-Dartmouth, team can compete against Goshen. weather and you don’t have a lot to nament, but rattled off eight straight Monica Palicki, who went 4-1 in five junior Lauren Enayati went 3-4 “They’ve got a lot of good athletes focus on besides softball, so the only wins in between. The schedule, starts. Palicki recorded 10 strikeouts from the plate with a triple, a home that have come into the program in challenge is just to make sure that which included 10 games in five against Curry in the first leg of a run, 5 RBIs, 2 runs and a steal. the last couple of years,” she said. when we are on the field, we are days, gave the Belles a chance to doubleheader on day three of the While the Belles had no problem “They are NAIA, so they do offer 100 percent there.” showcase their strong team depth tournament. In the game that at all getting on base, Sullivan said athletic scholarships, but two of the The first pitch of the Belles’ home and balance. immediately followed, freshman her team needs to focus on its teams in our conference have beat-schedule is slated for 3:30 p.m. on 
“The best thing about the week pitcher Callie Selner shut down baserunning. en them so far, two of the better Wednesday. was that everyone was a contribu-Salem State with 11 strikeouts in “Our baserunning was a little bit teams, so to me, we should be able tor,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. her third start of the season. Selner suspect at times,” Sullivan said. to go in there and take both games.” Contact Joseph Monardo at “We didn’t have one person being also sits at 4-1 on the season, with “Otherwise, honestly, I was putting Win or lose, the Belles will have to jmonardo@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 
17702 Douglas Rd South Bend Newly Renovated 3 Bed/2 Full Bath 2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek Lots of Parking Walk to Campus 50+ Photos on web 17702douglas.com 574-876-8596 
——————————————— 
PERSONALS 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
———————————————­“I haven't spoken to my wife in years. I didn't want to interrupt her.” -Rodney Dangerfield 
“I failed to make the chess team because of my height.” -Woody Allen 
“Get your facts first, then you can distort them as you please.” -Mark Twain ———————————————­“If my films make one more person miserable, I'll feel I have done my job.” -Woody Allen 
“Procrastination is the art of keep­ing up with yesterday.” -Don Marquis 
“There cannot be a crisis next week. My schedule is already full.” -Henry A. Kissinger ———————————————­“We'll love you just the way you are if you're perfect.” -Alanis Morissette 
“Don't worry about the world com­ing to an end today.  It is already tomorrow in Australia.” 
-Charles Schulz 
“You can't have everything... where would you put it?” 
-Steven Wright ———————————————­
Wednesday, March 23, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
FENCING 
NotreDamefghtsforchampionship 
each fencer earns one point point lead. It doesn’t mean 
By CONOR KELLY 
for each win as they move the other team can’t come 
Sports Writer 
throughout the tournament. back.” 
Though one strong individ-The trip to Ohio State may 
Notre Dame dominated the ual performance can lift a provide the Irish with a little Midwest Fencing champi-team, the whole squad must extra motivation as well. It onships, as both the men’s perform well to earn a was the Buckeyes who edged and women’s teams earned championship. This year’s out Notre Dame for the gold in each group mixes national championship in weapon cate -NCAA expe -2009. This year, only Ohio gory. Now, the “We can’t become rience with State, Princeton and Notre Irish look to overconfdent in raw talent. Dame qualified the maxi-take home the Three of the mum number of 12 fencers, 
having qualifed 12
p r o g r a m ’ s six men have and Bednarski sees them, as 
fencers. It’s like a 
eighth national fenced at the well as outsiders like championship basketball game in c h a m p i -Harvard, as the primary and its first o n s h i p s obstacles to a championship. 
which one team starts
since 2005 as before, while “There will obviously be a
with a two-point lead.” 
they head to four of the slight advantage for Ohio C o l u m b u s , six women State,” Bednarski said. “I’m Ohio for the Janusz Bednarski have compet-sure there will be a large NCAA champi-ed there as number of students there. 
Irish coach
onships. well. You could say we are going 
Notre Dame T h o u g h into the lion’s den.” qualified the maximum allot-qualifying 12 fencers is an If the Irish can go into the ment of 12 fencers for the advantage, the Irish realize “lion’s den” and come out championships at the NCAA that it by no means guaran-with a national title, they regionals in Michigan last tees victory. will have earned it. The week, and will send two “We can’t become overcon-NCAA championships begins fencers per weapon for both fident in having qualified 12 on March 23 and lasts until the men’s and women ’s fencers,” Irish coach Janusz March 27. teams. The team champi -Bednarski said.” It’s like a 
onship will be earned by basketball game in which Contact Conor Kelly at individual performances, as one team starts with a two-ckelly17@nd.edu 
the mound for the Irish in Tuesday’s rained-out game. 
Baseball 
continued from page 16 
think in baseball sometimes, there comes a point where you can try too hard at the plate. There’s times where you just have to let the game come to you, and I didn’t think that we handled that The young southpaw is 0-1 on the season for Notre Dame with a 3.38 ERA. 
McIver has demonstrated excellent control in his 16 innings of work, walking only four batters. Strong control has been a trademark of the Notre Dame pitching staff thus far into the season, a quality that Aoki said is 
all that well.” The Irish will lik el y h a v e a  “By and large, our at-bats are better. But  e x t r e m e l y important. “I f t he r e ’s  
c ha n c e t o im p r o ve t h e quality of their  the improvement is coming slowly.”  any one thing t h a t I c a n point to on our  
at-bats against  staff that has  
a  Flames staff  Mik Aoki  l e d  t o  t h e  
t h a t b r i n g s a 5.28 ERA after  Irish coach  i m p r o v e d numbers over­ 
16 games.  all from what  
F r e s h m a n  each of those  

first baseman Trey Mancini kids have done in years past, has been a standout at the it’s the ability to throw plate for Notre Dame, batting strikes,” he said. “I hear it .333 with two home runs and from coaches all the time: the nine RBIs over the course of value of strike-throwers in the season. Aoki said he has this new era of college base-noticed a gradual improve-ball with the new bats, it’s ment in the quality of his just off the charts how impor­team’s at-bats. tant it is to throw strikes.” 
“By and large, our at-bats The Irish will take on the are better,” he said. “But the Flames tonight with first pitch improvement is coming slow-slated for 5:35 p.m. ly.” 
Freshman pitcher Anthony Contact Chris Allen at McIver was slated to start on callen10@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 23, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Huffer leads ND in 10-team field 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Junior Becca Huffer lead the No. 25 Irish to a first place finish in the John Kirk-Panther Intercollegiate tournament in Stockbridge, Ga., out of a field of 10 teams. 
Huffer finished second in the field of individuals with a 54-hole total score of 211, finishing five shots under par. 
As a team, the Irish shot a total of 888 to finish 24 shots over par. Freshman Kristina Nhim finished seven over par and tied for ninth place in the field of individuals, and senior captain Katie Conway was the third Notre Dame golfer to finish in the top 20, shooting 10 over par to tie for 16th. 
“We won the tournament, mak­ing this our third victory of the year,” Conway said. “While we were heavily favored to win according to the rankings, we played really well as a whole and everyone made solid contributions. It was a true team effort.” 
No other team in the field of 10 was ranked nationally. Notre Dame finished ahead of second place Maryland (905) and third place East Tennessee State (906). 
Conway also spoke highly of Huffer, praising her success in the invitational. 
“Becca had her best tournament total to date finishing in second place at five under par,” Conway said. “She had three really solid and consistent rounds and has been on the cusp of a great tour­nament like this for a long time. This is just the start of what she’s capable of and we’re all really excited for her.” 
While the Irish have enjoyed success recently, Conway knows that her players will have to con­tinually improve if they want to obtain their season goals. Notre Dame will have its next opportuni­ty to do just that in the Liz Murphey Collegiate Classic, which begins on April 1. 
“Moving forward, we collectively still need to eliminate mistakes around the greens, like three putts and easy up-and-down conver­sions” Conway said. “[The Classic] has a strong field, but we all gained a lot of confidence from this week and will look to continue building on our success next week.” 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Calm demeanor drives Butler’s run 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Matt Howard stood at the free-throw line Saturday with 0.8 seconds left and a whole nation waiting to see if Butler could eliminate another No. 1 seed. 
He made it look easy. 
Buzzer-beating shots and last-second free throws have become a way of life for Butler recently, sustaining two con­secutive runs into the NCAA’s regional round and turning the Bulldogs into the Ice Men. 
“There was no question he (Howard) was going to make that free throw. You just knew it,” coach Brad Stevens said Sunday. “It’s really, really hard to do that, but Matt stepped up and did it.” 
Whatever it takes, Butler almost always seems to get the job done. 
Before Howard’s free throw and intentionally missed sec­ond shot sealed Saturday’s bizarre victory, it was Andrew Smith’s inadvertent tip to Howard for the layup winner against Old Dominion. Before that, it was Howard’s pick at midcourt that gave former teammate Gordon Hayward an open look for a half-court heave that nearly beat Duke in last year’s title game. 
And before that, it was Hayward’s rebound to seal the Final Four win over Michigan State and before that it was Hayward’s steal to preserve a second-round win over Murray State. 
How does Butler do it? They say they simply focus on all the little things and making big plays part of their regular rou­tine. 
“I’ve just been fortunate to be in the right position,” Howard said. “You can’t get much easier than a layup and a free throw.” 
Teammates and coaches have different explanations for the last-second heroics. 
Shooting guard Shelvin Mack, whose foul with 1.4 sec­onds left Saturday nearly cost Butler the game, believes the success is a direct result of Stevens’ calm, confident side­line demeanor. Mack believes that resonates with a veteran team and has helped the Bulldogs to stay composed when others come unglued. 
The win over the top-seeded Panthers is a perfect example. While the officials used replay to check the clock after Mack’s foul, Butler was already calling a play and trying to console the distraught guard. 
“They kept telling me there would be another possession,” Mack said. 
In Howard, Butler has an unflappable 6-foot-8 senior forward, former Horizon League player of the year and an academic All-American who has added a 3-point shot to his repertoire this season. He’s smart enough to understand where to go when a shot is taken and to know when to miss a free throw without being reminded. 
Yet Howard’s greatest attrib­ute may be compelling his teammates not to take plays off 
— and to believe they will win, no matter what happens. 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish display strong performance 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 21 Irish split two match­es over spring break, opening with a 5-2 victory over the USTA Junior National Team in Boca Raton, Fla., before falling to Kentucky later in the week. 
Senior Dan Stahl won his fourth straight singles match (6-1, 1-6 and 6-2) over Hunter Harrington in a three-set duel. Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said Stahl’s per­formance throughout the year has been a highlight of the team’s sea­son. 
“Dan [Stahl] has matured as a player and person and has become one of our strongest points this year,” Bayliss said. “He has made a remarkable transforma­tion from a junior player who had very few national level wins to a very solid college player capable of winning against any team in the country.” 
The Irish claimed the doubles point, with junior Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Spencer Talmadge defeating Luca Corintelli and Nikko Madregallego 8-4 in the No. 1 doubles match. Seniors Stephen Havens and David Anderson lost to Harrington and Ronnie Schnyder 8-5 in No. 2 doubles. 
Senior Tyler Davis and freshman Greg Andrews earned the win in No. 3 doubles to secure the point for Notre Dame. 
After defeating the USTA Junior team, the Irish fell to No. 14 Kentucky in their second match of the break. 
The highlight of the match was Stahl’s 6-3, 6-4 victory over No. 47 Alex Musialek to bring his winning streak to five. Bayliss said he was impressed with Stahl’s win. 
“Dan [Stahl] played very intelli-gently against Musialek and mixed in aggressiveness and patience while staying in the proper pat­terns to win comfortably in straight sets,” Bayliss said. 

Despite Stahl’s victory, the Wildcats took control of the match by winning the doubles point with victories in the No. 1 and No. 2 doubles matches. 
Kentucky swept the remaining singles matches, including a loss by No. 1 singles player Stephen Havens. The Irish lost the match 5-1. 
The Irish return to the courts this Sunday, as they host Florida and Dayton with first serve at 12 
p.m at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday, March 23, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MEN’S GOLF 
Notre Dame places 12th at Invitational 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame spent its spring break golfing outdoors for a change, competing against Yale March 14 in an informal tune-up match before competing in the Schenkel Invitational over the weekend. The No. 26 Irish fell to the Bulldogs by one stroke, 607­606, before finishing 12th in a field of 15 at Schenkel. 
According to Irish coach Jim Kubinski, the matchup against Yale in Greensboro, Ga., was designed as a scrimmage to help prepare his squad for the new terrain and the upcoming com­petition. 
“It was intended to be fun, more of a tune-up for Schenkel,” Kubinski said. “They have Bermuda grass down in Georgia, which we don’t have much expe­rience with, so we wanted to get used to that. They ended up nip­ping us by one shot, but it was a fun day for everyone.” 
Notre Dame initially posted results at the Schenkel Invitational, held in Statesboro, Ga., indicative of their prepara­tion on Monday. First and sec­ond round scores of 291 and 287, respectively, left the Irish in seventh place after two days. However, Kubinski said those scores were misleading and may have led to his team’s collapse in the third round. 
“That final round, I think, was the cumulative effect of the first and second rounds,” he said. “In the first two, our scores were deceiving. The guys did a pretty good job, but we just weren’t good with the easy shots. I think that caused us to lose a little confidence going into the final round.” 
Notre Dame finished the weekend by carding a score of 310, dropping them from what Kubinski considered a potential top-five finish all the way to 12th. Kubinski said he was sur­prised at some of the shots from his team in the final round. 
“Our wedge play was below average,” he said. “Even our chip shots were uncharacteristi­cally bad. We hit some chip shots I don’t normally see us hit.” 
The most glaring third round score came from freshman Niall Platt, who owned the team’s best score after two rounds before firing a nine-over-par 81 that was did not count towards the team score. Despite seeing Platt struggle, Kubinski said he is not worried. 
“In the first two rounds, I don’t think it bothered him,” Kubinski said. “As the day went on, he started to question his ability to make some shots and got a little down on himself. With the way he’s performed all year, though, this doesn’t really concern me. He just had some bad holes that he’ll learn from.” 
Kubinski said he expects the rest of his team to respond in the same way and come ready to play April 2 against LSU. 
“Knowing these guys and knowing that they feel like they gave this one away, I’m not wor­ried,” Kubinski said. “I think you’ll see them rally against LSU.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary’s battles Aquinas 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Playing in warmer climates in the Sunshine State, the Belles enjoyed a successful stay in Orlando, Fla., by win­ning three of five matches over spring break. 
However, the trip began with a rocky start when Saint Mary’s lost a difficult 7-2 decision to Dickinson. 
Like much of the early sea­son, the Belles’ strongest per­formances against the Red Devils came from the middle of their singles lineup. Senior Jessica Kosinski won 6-4, 6-1 in No. 2 Singles, and fresh­man Mary Catherine Faller came on strong late to win 3­6, 6-2 and 6-1 in the No. 3 spot. 
Saint Mary’s rebounded against Carthage College the next day. The Belles won four 
of six singles matches en 
Stuhr 
continued from page 16 
age to .333 on the season with a blistering tournament at the plate. Despite Stuhr’s offensive breakout, Clay said the Irish were disappointed not to win more games on the trip. 
“I think that our dissatis­faction comes from the fact that we know we actually can win those games now, and we are a little bit disap­pointed, ” Clay said. 
route to a 6-3 win over the Lady Reds. Senior Kate Grabarek dominated at No. 4 Singles, claiming a 6-0, 6-0 victory. Senior captain Franca Peluso also won convincingly, winning 6-1, 6-1 in her first win since returning from injury earlier this month. 
Saint Mary’s faced a chal­lenge the next day with a day -night doubleheader against Simpson and Principia after little rest. But The Belles dominated all day, rolling to an 8-1 victory over the Storm before sweeping the Panthers 9-0. 
Highlighting the day were Faller, Grabarek and senior captain Jillian Hurley, who lost a combined 11 games in their six singles victories. The Belles’ teamwork and cohe­siveness showed in doubles play, where they won all six of their matches. 
After playing four matches in three days, the Belles faced one more matchup against the College of St. Scholastica before returning to campus. The Saints proved to be too much for Saint Mary’s to handle, as they downed the Belles 6-3. Despite the loss, Saint Mary’s received strong performances from freshman Kathleen Klauer, who won 6-1, 6-0 at No. 6 Singles, and Hurley, who gutted out a victory in the top singles spot 7-6, (8-6) and 6-4. 
The Belles return to the Eck Tennis Center to take on Aquinas. The Saints are hot off a win over Trine College, and pose a formidable chal­lenge to the Belles in their last match before entering conference play. 
St. Mary’s and Aquinas will square off at 6 p.m. this evening. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
“However, there is comfort in teams, five different aspects knowing that we were in the of the game have to all be 
games and it’s not like we were “I think that our dis-scoreless 
satisfaction comes 
against 
from the fact that we
teams that were know we actually can 
ranked. So I win those games now, 
think it was 
and we are a little bit
kind of a disappoint -disappointed.” ing weekend overall, but I 
Alexia Clay 
do think that 
senior catcher
there ’s a positive, and working together really well,” Clay said. “Things like getting the bunt down or base running errors, things that don’t neces­sarily show up in box scores — [those] are the things that help teams succeed in the post-season when you do them well.” 
I think the team is seeing both ends of that.” 
Clay added that the high level of competition — the Irish faced top-five teams in their last two games of the Classic — would benefit the team later on in the season. 
“When you play really good 
The Irish host Eastern Michigan (9 -4) tonight in their first home doublehead­er of the season at Melissa Cook Stadium at 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 23, 2011 
lines. Rudolph tore his hamstring Obviously, he’ll be back, and he’ll guys step up in his absence. 
The Irish defense returns early last season, ending his 
FloydBuckeyes 
nearly fully intact, with its season — and with his early continued from page 16 Corrigan said the Irish defense be doing what he does best.” 
continued from page 16 biggest loss, literally and figu-entry into the NFL Draft, his needed to shut down the strong 
ratively, being that of soon-to-collegiate career — Notre Ohio State attack if the Irish are 
season, beginning with today’s be-graduated nose tackle Ian Dame seemed to have lost its lish,” Corrigan said. “I’d like to to prevail and maintain their 
first spring practice. Williams. Yet, Williams spent a most reliable weapon. It had, see us getting the momentum of undefeated record. 
“Win more games,” Kelly said significant portion of last sea-but sophomore Tyler Eifert took getting back to playing lacrosse, “I think they’re a very athletic 
Tuesday when describing the son on the sidelines injured, his opportunity to shine, and, and wins and losses will take and aggressive team, and we’ve 
difference between the future, and the Irish defense only well, shined. By the end of the care of themselves.” got to handle them in the middle 
the 2011 season, and the past, improved in his absence. victory over Army, in which he With injuries piling up on the of the field first,” Corrigan said. 
the 2010 season. Now, with more defensive end tallied four catches for 78 yards Irish roster, 11 days off allowed “Their attackers are really nifty 
The beauty of the system and outside linebacker recruits and a touchdown, Eifert had the team to relax and heal in guys. They are going to be a chal-
Kelly is creating hinges on the than the Gug may be able to become a common Irish house-time for future competition. lenge for us, but it’ll be a much 
number of weapons Notre feed, the Irish defense comes hold name. Corrigan said the team focused easier challenge if we can keep 
Dame has at its disposal, with back much stronger than it Entering this past September, on improving their own individ-them out of good opportunities.” 
or without Floyd. Last season ended last season. Kelly said the idea of losing Crist, ual games during their time off. Notre Dame’s home opener in 
the Irish offense lost junior early enrollee defensive end Williams or Rudolph for signifi­“It gives us a chance to get Loftus drew a record-setting 
quarterback Dayne Crist to a Aaron Lynch is “as developed cant time would have delivered healthy and a chance in practice crowd, yet Corrigan hopes the 
knee injury with four games as some of our juniors and sen-an anxiety attack to nearly any to concentrate on ourselves,” he crowd against the Buckeyes 
left in the season, yet Kelly and iors.” The same can be said for Notre Dame fan. The idea of no said. “You’re always preparing exceeds that number. 
freshman quarterback Tommy defensive end-turned-outside Michael Floyd for an entire sea-week-to-week for your oppo-“I would love to see the stu-
Rees won those four games, linebacker Ishaq Williams, also son has a similar effect, yet nents, and you don’t spend much dents come out. I would love to 
including wins over No. 15 an early enrollee. Kelly’s past shows it shouldn’t. time preparing for yourselves.” see over 3,000 people at the sta-
Utah and at USC. Rees, or Crist, or whoever “Every time there’s an injury The Irish are hoping that sen-dium, and make it a tough envi­
“Confidence obviously is takes Notre Dame’s first snap or somebody that’s not with us, ior midfielder and co-captain ronment for the other team to 
gained with success,” Kelly against South Florida in our focus is strictly on the guys Zach Brenneman will return to play in and a great environment 
said. “They had some success September, will no longer feel that are here,” Kelly said. action against the Buckeyes. In for our team to play in,” Corrigan 
against some pretty good foot-the pressure of the necessity to “The guys that are here” may the meantime, however, senior said. “There’s nothing that gets 
ball teams and so that carried outscore the opponent. This be one superstar fewer now, long-stick midfielder and co-cap-your team more jacked up than 
itself into the off-season.” year, a shootout against Denard but, as a whole, optimism tain Andrew Irving said the knowing they have a good stu-
When Kelly refers to “they,” Robinson simply won’t happen should still surround them. younger Irish midfielders have dent crowd at the game.” 
he is not referring to Michael — this defense is ready for his stepped up tremendously. The Irish will take the field 
Floyd and a select group of challenge. The views expressed in this “They’ve had a few goals and against Ohio State at 4 p.m. at 
other players. He is referring to But if a shootout does tran-column are those of the author had a ton of great plays, and not Arlotta Stadium. 
every single member of the spire, the Irish have the and not necessarily those of only that, but no one’s going to be 
Irish, even the five early weapons, again, with or with-The Observer. able to replace Brenneman,” Contact Megan Golden at 
enrollee freshmen. The confi-out Floyd. Contact Douglas Farmer at Irving said. “It’s nice to see young mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
dence the individual players When junior tight end Kyle dfarmer1@nd.edu gained during the four-game win streak will actually have minimal effect, but the confi­dence the team as a whole dis­covered during the four-game win streak will set the tone in this spring’s practices, and will establish a high-standard for the freshmen to aspire toward before they ever know anything different. 
“You can do that in year two because everybody kind of knows their place a lot better,” Kelly said. “That routine is actually what we are going to count on to be our strength in year two — get back into that routine that was so good for us late in the year.” 
Late last year, Kelly’s offense clicked on and off throughout each game as Rees’ inconsis­tent talent only showed up in 
backs, while former defensive 
sports. Bob Diaco’s defense car-
backs coach Chuck Martin will 
ried Notre Dame through Rees’ focus on the safeties. 
Kelly 
rough spots, stringing together continued from page 16 “It’s a lot more focus on our 
the best four-game stretch by football team because we know a 
an Irish defense since the days to work and develop our players lot more about them,” Kelly said. 
Lou Holtz patrolled the side-
and we can only develop the play-“They are going to get that indi­ers that are here. If you’re waiting vidual attention at their positions.” around, dreaming and hoping, Sophomores Bennett Jackson you’re going to miss great oppor-and Austin Collinsworth will leave tunities to develop your players.” their wide receiver slots for the 
One such opportunity comes defensive backfield — Jackson with stiff competition at quarter-will play cornerback and back. After freshman quarterback Collinsworth will play safety. Early Tommy Rees replaced injured enrollee Brad Carrico will move junior Dayne Crist at the end of from the defensive line to the the 2010 campaign and led the offensive line. Irish to a 4-0 finish to the season, “We’re pretty excited about Kelly could offer no clarity on his those moves,” Kelly said. depth chart for the spring. A number of former starters Instead, he expects a wide-open will be limited during spring prac­race for the starting position — a tice due to injuries. Junior defen­race that will include early sive tackle Sean Cwynar will not enrollee Everett Golson and fresh-be participating in spring practice man Andrew Hendrix. after foot and back surgeries. 
“It’s going to be a very competi-Sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o tive situation at quarterback, and will be limited in practice after Dayne can include his name in having an arthroscopic procedure that competitive battle,” Kelly to clean up cartilage in his year. said. “For us to truly talk about a Finally, Crist will be limited after a competitive battle and everybody second consecutive season-ending having a chance, I think we have knee injury. to modify our practices. [Golson “I think it’s going to be similar to and Hendrix] have to be involved. what we saw last spring,” Kelly In an ideal world we would like to said. “Everything but basically live leave [spring practice] where we – he feels comfortable with it, and know one, two, three.” I know that it’s going to be some-
Kelly also announced a number thing that allows him to continue of position changes, both for play-to develop for us.” ers and for coaches. Offensive line Spring practice begins today at coach Ed Warinner was named 8 a.m. and continues Mondays, the “run game coordinator” to Wednesdays, Fridays and allow offensive coordinator Saturdays, concluding April 16 at Charley Molnar to take on more the annual Blue and Gold Game. organizational work. Former out­side linebackers coach Kerry Contact Allan Joseph at Cooks will focus solely on corner-ajoseph2@nd.edu 



Wednesday, March 23, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


HENRI ARNOLD
LAURA McGINN 
JUMBLE
TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
PLEASANDVILLE 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Wednesday, March 23, 2011 page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Spring ahead 

Outlook optimistic spring position changes 
Coach Kelly announces despite Floyd’s absence 
Prior to junior receiver
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Michael Floyd’s actions along
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame Avenue early Sunday morning, the upcoming Irish coach Brian Kelly had a 
Irish football season seemed number of changes to announce at 
filled with Tuesday’s spring football kickoff 
optimism, and press conference, but all of them 
only optimism. took a backseat to junior captain 
Pending and wide receiver Michael Floyd’s 
Floyd’s fate — arrest and subsequent indefinite 
will his indefi­suspension earlier in the week. In 
nite suspen­addition to shedding some light on 
sion ever end Floyd’s situation, Kelly announced a 
— that opti­number of position changes as well 
mism need as highlighted the developing quar­
not dissi-Douglas Farmer 
terback race. 
pate. Kelly suggested that he and his 
Yes, if the 
Sports Writer 
staff will not worry about Floyd’s 
potential loss until any possible return was 
All-tangible. Instead, he will focus on 
American has caught his last developing the players that will be 
collegiate touchdown pass, in camp. 
Notre Dame will lose an “Every time there’s an injury or 
incredibly potent weapon, but somebody that’s not with us, our 
the absence of Floyd would not focus is strictly on the guys that are 
change Irish coach Brian here,” he said. “We are going to go 
Kelly’s plans for the upcoming
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Irish coach Brian Kelly and junior quarterback Dayne Crist engage in a discussion see KELLY/page 14 during fall practice last season. see FLOYD/page 14 


ND SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame returns home after trip to California 
Junior Dani Miller and sen-16 with mixed results for the against New Mexico (12-13), fits together and everyone is
By KELSEY MANNING 
ior Heather Johnson both hit squad, as Notre Dame upset a hard-fought 7-4 loss to No. working together, not just
Sports Writer 
home runs, as the Irish No. 9 Oklahoma (26-7) 2-1, 4 Washington (22-2), and a nine starters,” she said. “We rolled to a 4-1 victory in the but fell by the mercy rule to disappointing 9-4 defeat to have 21 girls, and they’re 
The picturesque California opener. Freshman Laura Cal State Fullerton (8-14) in No. 5 Michigan (28-2). going out there and doing weather masked a turbulent Winter struck out five in the the second game of a double-Senior catcher Alexia Clay their jobs, whatever they spring break for Notre Dame, second game to lead Notre header. said that despite the mixed are.” as the Irish finished 4-4 on a Dame to a 2-1 win. Saint Patrick’s Day brought performance, the team ’s Leading the Irish through-West Coast trip after facing Following the sweep, the no luck for the Irish, and the chemistry is strong. out the week was the break-five top-20 teams. Irish took on the field at the team dropped a game to No. “We’ve always known that out offensive performance of 
The Irish (16-6) opened the Judi Garman Classic in 19 Louisiana-Lafayette (17-we have talented players on freshman outfielder Lauren week with two wins in a dou-Fullerton, Calif., with six 10) by the score of 5-1. The this team, but especially this Stuhr, who raised her aver­bleheader against Cal Poly games in four days. The team rounded out the tour-year with the chemistry and (3-20). tournament started on March nament with a 5-0 win the people, the whole team see STUHR/page 13 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish prepare to battle OSU 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After taking a week to refocus and reenergize following their for­gettable win at Denver, the No. 3 Irish look to rebound against No. 20 Ohio State in Notre Dame’s first outdoor home game. 
The Irish (4-0) picked up a 10-9 win at Denver, but it took them all four quarters to put away the Pioneers. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said he was less than sat­isfied with the team’s victory at Denver, and he hopes the team gains a different kind of momen­tum while competing with the Buckeyes (5-3). 
“Clearly, being able to stay unde­feated keeps momentum that we’ve [already] been able to estab-
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Senior midfielder David Earl eludes a Drexel defender during see BUCKEYES/page 14 Notre Dame’s 11-7 win March 6. 

BASEBALL 
Squad ready for first home contest 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Irish coach Mik Aoki has waited more than eight months since his official hir­ing date on July 13, 2010 for his home debut at Notre Dame. As the rains fell hard in South Bend Tuesday, it was clear that Aoki would have to wait one more day for his first game at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Irish home opener against Oakland slated for Tuesday night may have been rained out, but Notre Dame (7-10-1) will take the field tonight against Illinois-Chicago (6-10) to begin the 2011 home schedule. 
Aoki’s squad is returning from a long road trip over spring break that saw the team go 3-4-1 in eight games. The team struggled on offense throughout the trip, failing to score more than five runs in any game. Aoki said he was disap ­pointed in the team’s show­ing at the plate. 
“I was disappointed in the quality of our at-bats,” he said. “Guys were pressing. Guys sort of came out of who they were a little bit. It comes from a good place. They wanted to win. They were trying like crazy. I 
see AOKI/page 11 




