the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University to evacuate Cairo abroad students 
U.S. State Department recommends U.S. citizens leave Cairo; communication devices are shut down and riots continue 
Observer Staff Report 
The University will evacu­ate Notre Dame students from Cairo due to ongoing protests and violence in Egypt, according 


See Also 
to a University “Unrest spurs press 

tourists’ fears.”
release. 
Notre page 5 Dame’s decision to evacuate the students was in response to a U.S. State Department recommendation. Twelve Notre Dame students are participating in Notre Dame’s study abroad program at the American University of Cairo (AUC). 
“Notre Dame is collaborat­ing with AUC and U.S. offi­cials to have the students transported with other American citizens as soon as possible on government ­arranged transport to safe havens in Europe, from where they will be assisted by Notre Dame to locations in which they will be able to safely continue their stud­ies,” the press release stat­ed. 
U.S. government-arranged transportation from Cairo to safe haven locations in Europe is scheduled to begin Monday, according to a notice from the U.S. Embassy in Cairo. 
The students arrived in Cairo Jan. 20 to begin their semester of study at AUC. 
In a Jan. 29 emergency website announcement, AUC stated that, “due to the cir­cumstances in Egypt,” class­es and activities were can-celled until at least Feb. 2. 
The students in Cairo had 
see CAIRO/page 5 


AP An Egyptian tank enters Tahrir Square in Cairo with anti-Mubarak slogans painted in Arabic Sunday. Notre Dame will be evacuating students in its Cairo study abroad program. 



Innovation Park looks toward expansion 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Rich Carlton, a local entre­preneur, attended the ground­breaking ceremony at Notre Dame’s Innovation Park in 2008 as a member of the Chamber of Commerce for St. Joseph County. 
At the time, Carlton did not envision himself participating in the Park, but today he is the president and COO of Data Realty, one of 30 client com­panies at Innovation Park. 

“I saw it as an opportunity to be involved in a true com­munity partnership between the community and the University,” Carlton said. 
Innovation Park, located just south of Notre Dame’s campus, opened in October 2009 and provides short-term space and advisory services to entrepreneurs while they start new companies. Its client companies either have previous ties to the University or are looking to make con­nections to resources at Notre Dame. 
Dave Brenner, Innovation Park’s president and CEO, describes the Park as a bridge between the University and the marketplace. 

“We act as a commercializa­tion bridge between the University and the market­place,” Brenner said. “As a bridge, it’s not a final destina­tion. People go from one side to the other.” 
At Innovation Park, startup companies rent space for up to a year and are able to con­nect with Notre Dame stu­
see PARK/page 5 




Signatures support PSA petition 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Members of Notre Dame’s Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) and other student groups gathered Thursday at the kickoff event for the PSA-sponsored petition to add sex­ual orientation to the University’s nondiscrimination clause, but this year’s petition includes another goal for the group, senior and PSA treas­urer Mary Dewey said. 
“The petition to include sex­ual orientation in the nondis­crimination clause has been circulated nine times in total, but this year we added a state-
see PSA/page 6 



Observer elects new top editor 

Observer Staff Report 
The Observer General Board elected Sports Editor Douglas Farmer as the 2011-12 Editor­in-Chief Sunday. 
Farmer, a junior Program of Liberal Studies major with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, is a native of La Crosse, Wisc. 
A resident of Alumni Hall, Farmer has led several sports beats, including football, men’s basketball, hockey, baseball, women’s soc­cer and men’s lacrosse. 
“I look forward to the oppor­tunities and challenges this new role will bring me. Fortunately, I know I will have a talented and dedicated staff working with me every step of the way,” Farmer said. 
Farmer became Sports Editor in the spring of 2010 and led coverage of Irish football coach 

see EIC/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Hockey ties twice with Miami page 20  Women’s basketball wins over Villanova page 20  Iron and Wine page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, January 31, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Meaghan Veselik Kristen Durbin Michael Todisco Caitlin Housley Matthew DeFranks 

Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Ankur Chawla 

Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 

Who is your celebrity crush? What is your favorite TV Hargis: Jessica Alba ... before show? baby. Hargis: It’s between Dexter and 
Entourage. I love Dexter What’s you favorite part about because it’s really awesome and Notre Dame so far? I love Entourage because it is Hargis: Coming from sunny Nor-the ultimate life. Cal I would have to say frozen nose hairs. What is one of your nick­
names? What are your spring break Hargis:JC ... for reasons that plans? should not be printed. Hargis: I am going to road trip through California universities. 

Zachary Hargis 
freshm an St.Ed’s 


COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer A gaggle of geese take a stroll through a snow covered south quad Sunday. They, along with the many ducks on campus, must not have received the memo to head South for the winter. 


OFFBEAT 

Florida sandbar mischief A 16-year-old art student based on a fabrication,” continues admitted that he put the Los Angeles police Chief 
MIAMI — First, a baby piano on the sandbar in Charlie Beck said. “I am grand piano mysteriously Biscayne Bay as part of an extremely sorry about showed up on a Miami art project, and a crew that.” sandbar. A day after it was removed it Thursday. The The Jan. 19 incident had removed, a small table table for two has also been the hallmarks of a brazen with two chairs, place set-taken down. attack on law enforcement, tings, a bottle of wine and when Los Angeles Unified a chef statue appeared on Shooting and Manhunt School District police the now-famous strip of deemed hoax Officer Jeff Stenroos sand. LOS ANGELES — A claimed he had been shot 
The latest prank has offi-school police officer who by a man with a gray pony­cials worried the sandbar triggered a massive man-tail who had been breaking could become a target for hunt by saying he had been into cars. more mischief and they are shot in his bulletproof vest Hundreds of officers warning such activity is was regarded as a pariah were dispatched to scour illegal. The Florida Fish Friday by authorities who cars and yards as part of a and Wildlife Conservation deemed the shooting a massive dragnet. Commission says anyone hoax. Turns out, police said, caught leaving items on the “A lot of people were there never was a gunman. sandbar a few hundred inconvenienced that day, yards from shore will be particularly given the fact Information compiled arrested. that we now find out it was from the Associated Press. 

Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Bill Anthes of Pitzer College will deliver his lecture “Edgar Heap of Birds at Home and Abroad: Ethics in a World of Strange Strangers” today at 
4:30 p.m. The lecture will take place in 217 DeBartolo Hall. 
Raul Zurita will give a poet­ry reading today at 5 p.m. in 100 McKenna Hall. The read­ing is free and open to the public. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies will spon­sor the presentation “How to Put Together a Research Project” today at 6 p.m. in the Hammes Student Lounge of the Coleman Morse Center. 
The seminar, “High-per­formance Polymer Membrances in Fuel Cells and Gas Separation” is tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. The seminar will be conducted by Rulian Guo of Virginia Tech in room 129 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The Career Center will host a Diversity Reception Wednesday at noon For more information visit career­center.nd.edu 
A library workshop, “Find it in the Newspapers” will be held Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Hesburgh Lirary room 222. The workshop will be held by reference librarian Margaret Porter. 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair is Wednesday from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center. The fair is open to all undergraduate and graduate students from all majors. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday thursday friday 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

LOW 18 LOW 15 LOW 16 LOW 03 LOW 03 LOW 15 


Monday, January 31, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Saint Mary’s joins Cristo Rey national partnership 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
The Cristo Rey Network announced Jan. 18 that Saint Mary’s College is among its list 
of  14  National  University  
Partners.  
As  a  National  University  

Partner, Saint Mary’s has teamed up with the Cristo Rey Network of 24 high schools across the country to ensure that low-income students have an equal opportunity of obtaining a secondary education. 
“The partnerships demon­strate Cristo Rey’s ongoing com­mitment to ensure that all of the graduates of its network high schools have access to the aca­demic, social and financial sup­ports they need to complete a college degree,” Saint Mary’s media contact Gwen O’Brien said in a press release. 
As part of this partnership, Saint Mary’s sends admission counselors to recruit at nearly all of the network high schools. 
“This means we work with the network, the high school person­nel and other partners in open­ing doors to postsecondary edu­cation to their students,” Mona Bowe, vice president of Enrollment Management, said. 
“But it goes beyond that,” Bowe said. “We participate in the annual Summit, where we can exchange ideas with the guidance counselors and learn from them about their students and their success stories.” 
According to Bowe, Saint Mary’s alumnus Janae Renteria is now the guidance counselor for one of the Cristo Rey High Schools in Tucson, Ariz. The col­lege is very proud and honored to say they sponsored her to attend a national conference last fall. 
Saint Mary’s involvement with the Cristo Rey Network stems back even before the Network’s launch in 2001. Bowe said she visited the original Cristo Rey High School in the 1990s. 
“As I learned more about the high school, and about the net­work as it was formed, I realized how close their goal and mission were to ours,” Bowe said. “In particular, these caught my eye: learning in a context of faith, rigorous Catholic secondary edu­cation and a real world Corporate Work Study.” 
Saint Mary’s Office of Admissions has enrolled a num­ber of Cristo Rey students at the College, who have contributed their diverse views to the devel­oping community. 
Bowe said she is proud to note the contributions of the Cristo Rey students, and also expressed that the college gives the stu­dents something in return. 
“The partnership gives us the best of both worlds,” she said. “We [offer] Cristo Rey students an outstanding Catholic educa­tion paired with women’s leader­ship development, and in return, we get some of their best and brightest women to join our community of learners, and their experiences enrich our commu­nity.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 




Businessman advises students on leadership 
seek out what his real purpose in ship. Business leaders should be exhibit,” Albion said. “It does not wants people to develop a des-
By ANNA BOARINI 

life was. Throughout her battle, asking themselves why are they mean knowing everything.” tiny plan. 
News Writer 

he said his mother continued to here and what is their purpose He said business leaders are “Instead of being a conflicted 
run her socially responsible tex-as leaders, he said. Many people still human beings and they need achiever — that is, still trying to 
A visiting entreprenuer said his tile mill. focus too much on what career to have a commitment to the figure out who they are — you true passion is promoting busi-“Her connection to her work they want rather than who they growth of their people, not just should be a passionate striver ness careers that have a social and her impact was so phenome-are and how they can use their their business. A compassionate that has combined their passion impact. nal,” Albion said. “She knew why passions to become a better busi-leader has to look beyond their with a business plan,” he said. 
Dr. Mark Albion, one of the co-she was here — I didn’t yet know ness leader. company’s impact on the indus-Albion said figuring out who founders of Net Impact, a non-that.” In Albion’s book “True to try and look at the impact it has you are as a person and what profit business focused on global Albion has written seven Yourself,” he writes about how on the world. you want to accomplish in life student leadership, delivered the books, some of which made the leaders are there to serve others. “You have to look beyond the will create a better leader and keynote address for the Greater New York Times bestseller list, He said that to be a good leader, borders of your own company businessperson. Good Lecture Series at the was a professor at Harvard three characteristics are needed: and strive to do what is best for “The way you make your way Mendoza College of Business University and has founded mul-competence, commitment and the world,” he said. in the world is just by being you,” Friday. tiple businesses. compassion. Albion talked about MBAs he said. 
After watching his mother bat-Throughout the lecture, Albion “A competent leader is an struggling with monetary desires tle cancer and overcome a fatal talked about what he considers a example of the values that you and how to involve their passions Contact Anna Boarini at diagnosis, he said he decided to fundamental question of leader-want to see your employees with a business plan. He said he aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 31, 2011 


College hosts formal 
By KRYSTINA HARCOURT 
News Writer 
“Baby, It’s Cold Outside” was the theme of the Saint Mary’s College annual All School Formal, held Saturday night at the Century Center in down­town South Bend. 
“We assumed snow would be on the ground, especially in January, and we tried to think of songs that incorporated win­ter,” co-chair Brianna Lamp said. “We thought of ‘Baby It’s Cold Outside,’ and, since the song isn’t technically a Christmas song, we figured it would be a great choice for our theme.” 
Lamp and co-chair Kerriann Dooley put together a commit­tee comprised of five sopho­more and junior students to plan the event. The group met weekly, starting in September. 
Tickets went on sale Tuesday and were sold out by 5 p.m. Thursday. 
Lamp said they made several changes this year, including an increase in the limit on number of attendees, the venue location and security. 
The committee was given a budget of $16,000 by the Student Government Association to plan the event. The budget went towards secu­rity, decorations, transporta­tion, the venue, entertainment and food. 
“This year was the deciding factor on whether the formal would be held in the future,” Lamp said. “Since we had a larger budget to work with, we upped security and made sure every precaution was taken to curb intoxication. More South Bend police were brought in to monitor students.” 
All School Formal is usually held at Palais Royale, but the committee decided to change the venue to the Century Center. 
Junior Julia Humphrey thought there were numerous improvements from last year’s formal. 
“I really enjoyed the change of location,” Humphrey said. “It was a really relaxed setting at the Century Center. I also think that the bus system was more effective. Last year, it took for­ever to board buses and get to and from Saint Mary’s.” 
Senior Lisa Jaworski said she liked the changes. 
“I liked that the new venue was larger and had more space to move around,” Jaworski said. “The music was better this year as well. The DJ had some really good mixes.” 
The committee dealt with a few incidents dealing with intoxication, but overall, the event seemed to have fewer problems than last year, Lamp said. 
“With everything bad that happened last year, I decided to get involved this year to restore Resident Hall Association’s trust in the event,” Lamp said. “It’s my senior year and I wanted to make sure that this event con­tinued to happen in the future. I think our committee did great and the event turned out extremely well.” 
Contact Krystina Harcourt at kharco01@saintmarys.edu 



Campus celebrates Christian Unity Week 
Kirner has helped organize several choirs for the Prayer Service. Five choirs from across campus will be leading the music, including the Celebration Choir, Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, Totus Tuus Band of Four: 7 Catholic Fellowship, musicians from Iron Sharpens Iron Interdenominational Fellowship and Coro Primavera. 
“Each group will be highlight­ed individually, and we’ll also sing several joint pieces togeth­er,” she said. 
It’s important that members of the Notre Dame community share in all the similarities of Christian faith, have a chance to dialogue about differences with others and appreciate the nuances that each has to offer, Kirner said. 
An easy way to participate is to attend the Thursday night prayer service in the Basilica, she said. The organizers of Christian Unity Week hope, that with the time spent examining beliefs, all Christians can unite as one people. 
“We want students to realize that Christian Unity is some­thing worth celebrating and working toward, even though we probably won’t see it brought completely to fruition in our lifetimes,” Kirner said. “We want students to appreci­ate the validity of a wide variety of Christian expression, to be inspired by fellow students of different Christian expressions, to learn from each other, and primarily to realize that we are all one in Christ.” 

Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Christian Unity Week, a series of events hosted by Campus Ministry and the Department of Theology, works to help stu­dents and staff embark on a communal journey to come together in the Body of Christ through conversation and prayer. 
“About 2.1 billion people claim the name Christian, but these followers of Christ are divided into a wide variety of denominations,” Karen Kirner, associate director of the Folk and Celebration Choirs, said. “Different ways we can work towards unity include prayer, common work, witness and open dialogue.” 
Events for the week begin tonight with an Ecumenical Lecture concerning Eastern Catholics and their relationship with the Orthodox Church at 7 

p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
A talk sponsored by Four:7 Catholic Fellowship about unifi­cation of all Christians through the Body of Christ will take place Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. in the Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. 
History professors Mark Noll and Brad Gregory will lecture on the relationship between Evangelicals and Catholics Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. 
Though there will be a prayer service at 8 p.m. Friday in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel, the pinnacle of the week will be the Christian Unity Prayer Service Thursday night at 10 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Kirner said. 

Monday, January 31, 2011 The Observer  NEWS page 5 

Cairo 
continued from page 1 
no access to Internet or mobile phone connections last week, but Notre Dame’s Office of International Studies (OIS) received a Friday voicemail when AUC officials allowed students to make one-minute phone calls from landlines. 
In a website update direct­ed toward parents of stu ­dents in Cairo, OIS said the students were safe in their residences. 
EIC 
continued from page 1 
Brian Kelly’s first season as well as the Notre Dame women’s soccer team’s nation­al championship. 
“Douglas has done a tremendous job this year as Sports Editor, specifically in improving the feedback given to writers and increasing the amount of quality content on our website,” outgoing Editor­in-Chief Matt Gamber said. “I 
“OIS has received a voice­mail from one of our Cairo students, calling on behalf of all of them,” the note stated. “They are all safe at the stu­dent residence in Zamalek. … They are obeying the cur­few and, as instructed, have not ventured from their resi­dences nor in anyway been involved in any of the protests. There are AUC offi­cials in residence at Zamalek that are there to act as advi­sors to our students.” 
Notre Dame students also placed short phone calls Sunday when they learned they were leaving Cairo. 
have enjoyed working with Douglas over the past three years and know he will contin­ue to serve as a great leader and example for others at the paper.” 
Farmer said he expects to build upon The Observer’s “strong journalistic tradition” with the help of the rest of the Editorial Board in the coming year. 
“I anticipate a year of great experiences thanks to this new position,” he said. 
Farmer will take over as Editor-in-Chief on March 7. 

MEXICO 

Preliminary election places Aguirre ahead 
Associated Press 
ACAPULCO, Mexico — Both candidates for governor of the cartel-plagued state of Guerrero said they were confident of victo­ry as early returns trickled in late Sunday from an election shadowed by corruption scan­dals, political violence and the drug war. 
The vote in Guerrero, home to the resort city of Acapulco and a battleground for feuding drug gangs, was the culmination of an acrimonious campaign between two former party allies and sec-ond-cousins. The first of six gubernatorial elections this year in Mexico, it sets the stage for the 2012 presidential election. 
The first preliminary results gave an edge to Angel Aguirre of the leftist Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD. With 55 percent of polls reporting, Aguirre had about 57 percent of the vote, compared to some 42 percent for his rival, Manuel Anorve. 
“All the trends favor us in an irreversible manner,” Aguirre said earlier. 
Anorve, of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, made similar remarks. 
The preliminary count was to continue into the night, with a definitive result not to be announced until Wednesday. 


EGYPT 

Unrest spurs tourists’ fears 
Associated Press 

CAIRO, Egypt — Foreign governments stepped up their warnings Sunday about travel to Egypt, with several urging their citizens to evacuate as soon as possible amid uncer­tainty over where the Arab nation is headed after nearly a week of mass protests. 
The fears of foreign tourists mirrored those of many Egyptians. Dozens with the means to do so rented jets or hopped aboard their own planes in a mad dash that did little to boost confidence in the future of a country long viewed as a pillar of stability in a restive region. Those leaving included businessmen and celebrities. 
The United States, Canada, Switzerland, Turkey and the Netherlands issued advisories encouraging nationals already in Egypt to leave and telling those who planned trips there to reconsider. The 
U.S. Embassy in Cairo said it was making arrangements to transport Americans who want to leave to “safehaven locations in Europe.” Flights would begin Monday. 
Assistant U.S. Secretary of State Janice Jacobs said it will take several flights in the coming days to accommodate all Americans who want to leave. 
Jacobs, who is in charge of consular affairs, said the U.S. may also send planes to other cities in Egypt, such as Luxor, if there are a number of Americans stranded there. Americans taking the charter will be billed for the flight and must make their own travel arrangements home from Europe. 
Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Lawrence Cannon said its charter flights will begin as early as Monday to fly Canadians who wish to leave to locations in Europe. 
A growing number of coun­tries — including China, Australia, France, Germany, Belgium, Sweden, Finland, Russia and Poland — warned against travel to most, if not all, of Egypt. Arab nations, including Iraq, either sent in jets or offered to do so. 
“If I had a visa to anywhere, I’d join them. But that’s not going to happen,” said Mohammed Khaled, a 28­year-old Egyptian doctor. “Right now, I’d settle for a gun, but I can’t even find one of those.” 
Surging lawlessness on the streets after the much-reviled police essentially melted away prompted neighbors to form armed patrols. But crowds of men armed with shovels, sticks, clubs, chains, guns and even whips did little to project an image of stabili­ty. 
Compounding the problem was a continued Internet out­age after the government cut off service Friday to undercut protesters’ ability to organize demonstrations against President Hosni Mubarak. 
U.S. Embassy officials said they were unable to send text message alerts -which have been blocked nationwide since late Thursday -compli­cating efforts to distribute advisories. 
The unrest is sure to affect Egypt’s vital tourism sector, at least in the short-run. Tourism accounts for about 5 percent to 6 percent of GDP, making it one of the top four sources of foreign revenue. 


Park 
continued from page 1 
dents, faculty and research. 

Being at Innovation Park allowed Carlton to find stu­dent interns from Notre Dame. While he has been in business in South BenAd for more than 15 years, he made connections with the University for the first time when Data Realty, his tech­nology-based startup, came to Innovation Park in October. 
“The interaction that I get here with the students is not only energizing, I’m just thor­oughly impressed,” he said. 
Other client companies come to Innovation Park because they already have connections to Notre Dame. Les Ivie, president of F cubed, is developing a molecular detection device based on technology that Hsueh-Chia Chang, a Notre Dame chemi­cal and biomolecular engi­neering professor, invented. 
After Ivie decided to start F cubed based on Chang’s tech­nology of using carbon nan­otubes to attract and detect certain types of DNA, he came to Innovation Park because he could be close to research at Notre Dame. While he is based in Chicago, Ivie travels to South Bend three days each week. 
“It’s been good for us,” Ivie said. “Not only do we get sup­port from Innovation Park, but we get a lot of support from the local community.” 
Ivie said the common labo­ratory with special equipment at Innovation Park has been especially valuable in devel­oping a molecular detection device that can quickly and easily test liquid samples. Applications of his device include doctors being able to diagnose patients with condi­tions such as influenza or strep throat in 15 minutes as opposed to several hours. In addition, it could test lake water and quickly determine whether it is safe to swim. 
After F cubed is ready to move out of Innovation Park, Ivie said he plans to remain in South Bend. 
“My three top scientists that work at Innovation Park moved to South Bend, one of them from Pittsburgh, one of them from Raleigh-Durham and the third one from Austin, Texas,” he said. “So our intention is to graduate and stay in the local area.” 
Innovation Park is also “a good community of like-mind­ed companies,” Ivie said. 
Brenner said client compa­nies at Innovation Park often communicate and collaborate with one another because they find things in common. 
“That’s the secret sauce of what goes on in a park like this,” he said. “It’s very rare that a single individual has all the answers. They need to reach out to other people.” 
While all 30 client compa­nies at the Park, which include for-profit companies and non-profit social ven­tures, are startups, Brenner said he and his staff have learned to be flexible in advising each company. 
“Without any definitive data to base it, we really had assumed we would get com­panies in different stages of development but that there would be a number of them that would have common needs so it would be easy to shape programs,” he said. “What we’ve learned is that we have 30 companies in dif­ferent stages of development with different challenges.” 
Feedback from client com­panies has been very positive, Brenner said, and in the future Innovation Park could look to expand, although it is not yet at full occupancy. 
“We do have space here on this site for four buildings,” he said. “It’s an open, active issue sand we’re very pleased we have the space.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 31, 2011 
PSA 
continued from page 1 
ment about the recognition of AllianceND as an official club on campus,” Dewey said. 
AllianceND, the proposed campus gay-straight group, has applied for official club status 14 times since the 1990s but has been rejected by University administrators each time, senior and acting vice president of PSA Julia Duranti said. 
Past petitions have garnered over 2,700 student, faculty and staff signatures, Dewey said. PSA decided to include support for AllianceND in this year’s petition to make a more focused statement about the current environment on cam­pus regarding sexual orienta­tion. 
“We realized that there has­n’t been a positive response from the administration in the past, so we were trying to think of new approaches,” Dewey said. “It’s a demonstra­tion of support from a majority of the student body and faculty, but we’re mostly pushing for AllianceND to get official club status.” 
Dewey said the large number of signatures in support of adding sexual orientation to the nondiscrimination clause demonstrates the need and desire of both students and faculty to have an informal outlet for discussion between gay and straight members of the Notre Dame community, ideally in the form of AllianceND. 
“There’s a general level of discomfort for straight stu­dents in learning and talking about [sexual orientation],” Dewey said. “A lot of people don’t know what they think about it, so we want a space where people can meet each other and talk in a comfortable environment.” 
Duranti said the University has countered the push to make AllianceND an official club by emphasizing the exis­tence of the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning students — a University committee made up of students and faculty. 
There are currently 12 coun­cil members. 
“The University’s biggest argument against the recogni­tion of AllianceND is the Core Council, but it’s not really a space for gay and straight stu­dents to meet, talk about issues and form friendships,” Duranti said. “Core Council is directly controlled by the administration, so AllianceND would be an informal place for students to come together and break the ice about these issues.” 
Without official club status, AllianceND doesn’t have access to University funding, can’t meet officially in public places on campus and can’t set up a table at Activities Night, Duranti said. 
PSA also hopes to collect at least 3,000 signatures for the official presentation of the petition to the University administration at the end of March, junior and PSA co-president Jackie Emmanuel said. 
“While our most immediate goals for this campaign are changing, the nondiscrimina­tion clause and getting recog­nition for AllianceND, the over­all movement aims to create a more tolerant, accepting envi­ronment on campus for [les­bian, gay, bisexual and trans­gender] students,” Duranti said. 
Emmanuel emphasized the importance of the sexual ori­entation clause in creating a more comfortable environment for both students and faculty members. 
“Currently, much of campus doesn’t realize the trials gay faculty and students go through every day,” Emmanuel said. “Untenured faculty mem­bers may hide their sexual ori­entations for fear of being rejected from campus or losing their jobs with no explanation, and closeted students may have to hide who they are from their friends for fear of being cast out of their friend groups.” 
Boston College, Fordham University, Georgetown University and Saint Mary’s College, all Catholic universi­ties, include sexual orientation in their respective nondiscrimi­nation clauses. 
Duranti said the proposal to change the University’s nondis­crimination clause should not be construed as an attempt to challenge Church teachings. 
“There’s a misperception that we’re challenging Church doctrine, but it’s more of a question as to how strong the protections are for students who deal with harassment combined with an overall cul­ture that isn’t the most accept­ing,” Duranti said. “We’re try­ing to hold Notre Dame to its Catholic ideals of nondiscrimi­nation and universal love for all people, so Notre Dame has a long way to go to live up to that.” 
Dewey said the changes pro­posed by the petition may seem small but could prompt significant changes in the future. 
“It’s really not that contro­versial, and it’s a pretty small change, but it could go a long way in making a difference in campus culture,” Dewey said. “All of us love being at Notre Dame, so for most people the absence of AllianceND doesn’t matter much, but it’s impor­tant for LGBT students.” 
Emmanuel said several other student clubs are in favor of the petition, including MEChA, College Democrats and Feminist Voice, all of which have been helping to pass out petitions and to spread the word in general. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 



Monday, January 31, 2011 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
HAITI 

U.S. plans to continue aid 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — The United States has no plans to halt aid to earth­quake-ravaged Haiti in spite of a crisis over who will be the nation’s next leader but does insist that the presi­dent’s chosen successor be dropped from the race, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Sunday. 
Clinton arrived Sunday in the impoverished Caribbean nation for a brief visit. She met with President Rene Preval and earlier met with each of the three candidates jockeying to replace him. 
Only two candidates can go on to the delayed second round, now scheduled for March 20. The U.S. is backing an Organization of American States recommendation that the candidate from Preval’s party, government construc­tion official Jude Celestin, should be left out in favor of populist rival Michel Martelly. 
The top U.S. official at the United Nations, Susan Rice, said recently that “sustained support” from the United States required the OAS rec­ommendations be implement­ed. Many Haitian officials, including leaders of Preval’s Unity party and Martelly, interpreted that to mean the 
U.S. was threatening an embargo and cutting off aid. 
Clinton flatly rebuffed that suggestion. “We’re not talk­ing about any of that,” she said Sunday. 
“We have a deep commit­ment to the Haitian people,” she told reporters. “That goes to humanitarian aid, that goes to governance and democracy programs, that will be going to a cholera treatment center.” 

Asked if there were any set of circumstances that would prompt Washington to cut off aid, Clinton said, “At this point, no.” 
Still, she insisted that the United States would press the recommendations by interna­tional monitors after a disor­ganized, fraud-ridden first-round presidential vote in November. They determined that Preval’s preferred suc­cessor, Celestin, finished last and should drop out. Celestin has yet to do so. 
“We’re focused on helping the Haitian people,” Clinton said ahead of the meetings. “One of the ways we want to help them is by making sure that their political choices are respected.” 

Haiti is in a deepening and potentially destabilizing polit­ical crisis. The announcement of preliminary results from the disputed first round led to rioting in December. Final results are expected to be announced Wednesday. 
Just five days after, on Feb. 7, comes the constitutional end of Preval’s five-year term. 
A law passed by an expiring Senate last May would allow him to remain in power for an extra three months, but it is not clear if his government would continue to be recog­nized by donor countries. But Preval has said he does not want to hand power to an interim government. 
NETHERLANDS 

Dutch freeze contacts with Iran after hanging 
Associated Press 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The Dutch government has frozen official contacts with Iran to protest the hanging of a Dutch-Iranian woman, the Foreign Ministry said. 
Iranian Ambassador Gharib Abadi was informed of the sanctions on Saturday after he confirmed reports that Zahra Bahrami, 45, was executed in Tehran Saturday. 
His embassy later said the hanging was “an internal issue” that should have no impact on diplomatic rela­tions. 
Iranian state television reported Bahrami was hanged for possessing and selling drugs. The report said that initially Bahrami was arrested for committing “security crimes,” but it did not say what became of that case. 
Bahrami had been jailed in Iran since December 2009 after protests against President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's re-election. Protesters took to the streets, saying the vote was marred by fraud and that opposition leader Mir Hossein Mousavi was the rightful winner. 
The Iranian Embassy in a statement late Saturday described Bahrami as a mem­ber of an international drug trafficking ring, who traveled on Dutch, Iranian and Spanish passports with different per­sonal information. 
It said Bahrami — who was born in Iran, but gained Dutch citizenship after moving to the Netherlands — was accorded the legal rights of an Iranian citizen, but that Tehran does not recognize dual nationality. 
Dutch Foreign Ministry spokesman Bengt van Loosdrecht said Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal was “shocked, shattered by this act by a barbaric regime.” 
He added the hanging was especially shocking as Abadi had assured the Dutch minis­ter on Friday that Bahrami's legal avenues had not yet been exhausted. 
Dutch diplomats had been denied access to Bahrami while she was in prison because Iran refused to recog­nize her Dutch nationality. The Dutch government report­edly hired lawyers to defend her. 
The diplomatic freeze means Iranian embassy staff are for­bidden from meeting or hav­ing contact with Dutch offi­cials without prior written approval, Van Loosdrecht said. 
The Foreign Ministry also advised other dual citizens against traveling to Iran, as Dutch consular officials would now have no access to them if they are arrested. 
Van Loosdrecht said Rosenthal would raise the issue next week when European Union foreign min­isters meet in Brussels. The Netherlands will seek unspeci­fied “collective measures” against Iran, Van Loosdrecht said. 
GERMANY 

Ten injured in train crash; death toll could rise 
Associated Press possibilities, including technical 
failure and human error. State 

BERLIN — German authorities governor Wolfgang Boehmer, said Sunday that the death toll who visited the site Sunday, told could still rise from a head-on reporters one of the drivers may collision between a cargo train have missed a red traffic signal. and a passenger train that killed Police said it was too early to at least 10 people, injured 23 comment on a possible cause. others and left wreckage scat-“We are still speechless and tered across a frost-covered shocked by the images and the field. level of destruction,” said Holger 
The trains crashed in heavy Hoevelmann, the interior minis-fog late Saturday on a single-line ter of Saxony-Anhalt. track near the eastern German The passenger train operated village of Hordorf, close to by Harze Elbe Express was on Saxony-Anhalt's state capital its way from Magdeburg to Magdeburg, vaulting the passen-Halberstadt with about 50 pas­ger train from the track and tip-sengers aboard, moving at a ping it onto its side. The front speed of 62 mph (100 kph), rows of the first passenger com-when it crashed with the cargo partment were crushed and sev-train, which was going 50 mph eral seats lay outside the train. (80 kph). Both trains caught fire, but most The cargo train, run by Peine­of the dead were killed on Salzgitter, was carrying calcium impact, police said. carbonate, often used as a calci-
The crash is one of the worst um substitute or antacid. train accidents in Germany's his-Neither train operator could tory. immediately be reached for com­
“The crash was so strong that ment, but the head of Deutsche the passenger train was cata-Bahn, the national German rail-field. The dark imprints of some and they had to be taken by informing relatives. A phone hot­pulted off the tracks,” Armin way, told news agency DAPD of the bodies that had been ambulance instead. Most of the line was activated for family Friedrich, the police officer in that he was “deeply upset” by removed could be seen on the injured were so severely hurt members and friends, and psy­charge of the rescue efforts, said the accident. white frosty ground next to the that doctors fear the death toll chologists and ministers were on at a news conference in Hordorf, “Of course, we will do every-crash site. could rise, Hoevelmann added. the scene to counsel rescue per-about 125 miles (200 kilometers) thing possible to support all The noise of the collision was Several German media outlets sonnel. southwest of Berlin, Germany's those involved in this accident,” heard in the village of said the train driver and a con-Police said they were having capital. Nearly 200 police and Ruediger Grube said, adding Oschersleben, more than four ductor of the passenger train trouble identifying victims rescue workers were sent to the that he had contacted Harz-miles (about seven kilometers) were among the dead, but police because most of them were not crash site. Elbe-Express and offered help. away. did not confirm those reports. carrying ID. 
The cause of the crash was At the scene, mangled parts of Due to the heavy fog, rescue Two bodies have been identi-Chancellor Angela Merkel under investigation, and experts the blue and yellow passenger helicopters were not able to fly fied, but police did not want to expressed her condolences, say-said they were still looking at all train were scattered around the the injured to nearby hospitals release their identities before ing she too was shocked. 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, January 31, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Tradition 

Tradition. A word so synonymous with Notre Dame it applies to discussions of football and graces numerous articles of memorabilia in the Hammes Bookstore. 
But these trivial examples of Irish “tra­dition” pale in com­parison with the ubiquitous family tradition that per­vades every cam­pus residence hall and encompasses nearly the entire country. 
As an under­graduate admis-


Kristen Durbin 
sions tour guide, it is my express 
News 
responsibility to 

Production 
know myriad ran-
Editor 

dom facts about our beloved University, but an important statistic I fre­quently repeat in response to questions from students and parents involves the proportion of legacy students at Notre Dame. According to admissions coun­selors, the University prefers to keep the number of students who had at least one parent attend Notre Dame at about 25 percent of the undergraduate student body. 
That proportion often seems grossly inaccurate when meeting people who casually mention that their grandfather, parents, uncles, cousins and siblings went to Notre Dame and that their love for the school began in the womb. 
Not that I don’t buy into Notre Dame’s image as a university deeply rooted in tradition, especially in terms of Catholicism and football, but I honestly can’t think of another university to which whole generations of families flock, save for maybe Harvard. 
Although my parents aren’t Domers, my grandmother is a proud alumna of Saint Mary’s, and two of her brothers once called the Golden Dome home. This relatively “distant” connection to the University turned my decision to attend Notre Dame into the continuation of a 50­year-old “family tradition.” 
Now that my younger brother became an official member of the Class of 2015 last week, the contagious Notre Dame family tradition has lured yet another sib­ling to snowy South Bend. The fact that my brother turned down the possibility of receiving a substantial scholarship to Marquette and guaranteed admission into their dental school in the future says something about the magnetic pull of Notre Dame. But what exactly attracts people to the University? 
Obvious answers would include football (which will hopefully return to glory by the time I graduate), the University’s sta­tus as the best Catholic university in the world and the No. 1 undergraduate busi­ness school in the country. But these are simply the easiest reasons to put on paper. 
During my tours, it’s often difficult to effectively convey the unique feeling of community that Notre Dame students share, despite the fact that I feel connect­ed to the Notre Dame community every day. Maybe it’s the camaraderie the dorms foster or standing in a sea of green in the student section. 
Whatever it is, it brings 2,000 new Domers to campus each year and attracts 80,000 football fans on fall weekends. It brings families together and strengthens relationships between siblings. Most of all, it unites us all as part of the Notre Dame family legacy, and I can’t wait for my brother to feel that unique blend of tradition and community next year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Sticks and stones (and violent words and images) hurt 
In the defense of her violent language that has been blamed for inciting the shooting of Rep. Gabrielle Gifford, Sarah Palin said, “Acts of monstrous criminality stand on their own. They begin and end with the criminals who commit them, not collectively with all the citizens of a state, not with those who listen to talk radio, not with maps of swing dis­tricts used by both sides of the aisle, Alex Coccia not with law-abid­ing citizens who Shard of Glass respectfully exer­cise their First Amendment rights at campaign rallies, not with those who proudly voted in the last election.” 

Legally, Palin is correct. The only one to be prosecuted for the Tucson, Ariz. shootings will be Jared Lee Loughner. But Palin’s insistence on the crime end­ing with the criminal is naive, a fright­ening attitude for one who is presumed to be planning a run for the presidency, and it illustrates a serious problem in politics today: the lack of foresight among politicians. 
With such a position of influence and with an appeal to a large number of people in America who are impressed by her disposition, Sarah Palin has the responsibility to understand the possi­ble consequences of language such as “Don’t retreat; instead reload.” The use of the crosshair symbols on her “Take back the 20” map to designate the politicians who had voted for health care reform in conservative districts 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

was an enormous mistake. If it was not Sarah Palin’s mistake, it was the mis­take of those who work for her. Columnists who have defended Sarah Palin on both her gun imagery and the use of the crosshairs have pointed out that the “crosshair” is a symbol used by the U.S. Geographic Survey to designate “Principal Points” on topographic maps. However, if that were the case, the time for Sarah Palin to disavow the “crosshairs” imagery and take down her map was spring 2010 rather than after the Tucson shooting. Since she failed to do that, how can we believe that she and her team intended the symbol on her map to be the marker used by the U.S. Geographic Survey? In fact, in a November 2010 tweet, Sarah Palin referred to the image as the “‘bullseye’ icon used 2 target the 20 Obamacare-lovin’ incumbent seats” (twitter.com/SarahPalinUSA/sta­tus/29677744457#). When I took a look at Sarah Palin’s “Take back the 20” map, the first thing I saw were the crosshairs as targets. Was this because I had just read an article about them being as such? Perhaps. However, I think most people would say, “Those look like crosshair targets,” rather than, “Those look like the markers designated by the U.S. to indicate ‘principal points’ on a map.” 
I am not arguing that the language and images behind Sarah Palin’s midterm election campaign should have been censored externally, but that she should have moderated them herself. I believe in the First Amendment. However, I also believe that in any posi­tion of power, in any position in which one has influence over a group of peo­ple, government or otherwise, there exists the responsibility to act in ways that provide for the bolstering of a soci­ety in the best interest of all. Violent language and graphic images that allude to taking up arms are not parts of the positions of power. The use of what Nobel Prize economist Paul Krugman calls “eliminationist rhetoric” is counterproductive for society as a whole. If politicians like Sarah Palin claim to have the best interest of the country and the future of the country at heart, then the use of violent language which requires an eight-minute public justification makes the claim unbeliev­able. 
No, Sarah Palin. Criminal acts do not begin and end with just the criminal. They are the immediate responsibility of the one who commits them, but they must also be viewed within the context of society and those who lead it. Crime will be more common in a society that makes it seem as though such actions can be tolerated. A better society, one in which crime will still exist but in which it is clearly not tolerated, begins early on with the sentiment, “I will not raise my child to kill your child.” Politicians should use the same logic. Violence and words insinuating violence cannot be a part of America’s political system, and the line should be drawn now. With great power, comes great responsibility. For Sarah Palin and all politicians, it is the responsibility to influence those who listen to them to make America greater, not more violent. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Nothing fixes a thing so intenselyin the memory as the wishto forget it.” 
Michel de Montaigne French essayist 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Keep your broken arminside your sleeve.” 
Chinese proverb 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, January 31, 2011 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Gates the wrong choice for Commencement speaker 
Last week’s editorial endorsing the selection of Robert Gates as this year’s Commencement speaker failed to take into account the gravity of the United States’ current military engagements overseas and Secretary Gates’ role in those operations. As a senior graduating in May, I am troubled by Secretary Gates’ selection. Although he has had an impressive career marked by a number of praiseworthy accomplish­ments, Secretary Gates’ role in recent U.S. foreign policy decisions makes him an inappropriate choice for Commencement speaker. 
48,156 U.S. soldiers and civilian government employees have been killed or wounded in U.S. mili­tary operations in the Middle East as of Jan. 28, according to the Department of Defense. I, like many Americans, do not understand what purpose is served by our nation’s continued military presence in the Middle East, and I fear that our foreign policy does little to keep America safe. I would welcome a visit from Secretary Gates in an academic setting, but the Commencement is not a venue for inquiry or debate. His role in the ceremony and the University’s conferral of an honorary degree upon him will give the appearance of a tacit endorsement of the Bush and Obama administrations’ foreign policies, even if such an endorsement is not intended. 
I look forward to reflecting on my experiences at Notre Dame and celebrating everything I love about our University on my graduation day. I am disap­pointed, however, that the centerpiece of that day will be a speech delivered by one of the chief expo­nents of a foreign policy that I believe is deeply mis­guided. It is my hope that Secretary Gates’ selection as Commencement speaker will at least prompt those of us in the Notre Dame community to serious­ly consider the wisdom of the decisions he has par­ticipated in over the past four years. Though we may disagree in good faith about the necessity and justice of the United States’ recent military actions, we would do well to remember Jesus’ teaching, which lies at the heart of our University’s mission: “Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God.” 
Benjamin Linskey 
senior Duncan Hall Jan. 29 
UWIRE 

Merger risks press freedom 
Throughout my higher education I have heard cyber­space referred to as a place where consumers wield a great deal of power. My professors have cited blogging and social networking as tools that will ensure our Internet freedom. I have lived in this fantasy world, believing in earnest that maybe the power really had shifted from 
Mark Costigan 
the hands of the producers to the consumers. 
The Oregon 
Those days are over. 
Daily Emerald 

With the FCC approval of the Comcast-NBC Universal merger on January 18, any hope for net neutrality has been washed away with the sewage. Comcast owns more telecommunications lines and controls more Internet connections than any other service provider in the nation. 
The company has been caught slowing down traffic and even prioritizing data and information on its servers. 
And now it controls the face of that information. 
Comcast, as an Internet service provider, owns the framework and pipelines of the Internet in our country. The company is, in essence, a distributor and provider of the means by which we receive and transmit our infor­mation. This used to be a minor topic in our field of dis­course, but now we have reason to be seriously con­cerned. 
For example, take Tracy Record, who covers local news in the West Seattle neighborhood. 
In light of five major corporations owning the vast majority of American media, she and her husband have taken it upon themselves to cover local news in their neighborhood. 
Tracy writes the articles, her husband, Patrick, sells the ads and their middle school-aged son edits the photos. 
The family not only supports itself this way; they pro­vide relevant news to their community supported by local advertisers. 
Like many bloggers, they use WordPress, an extremely cheap Web publishing platform. 
Before this pinnacle merger, the family had a fair opportunity to distribute its information through the Internet. Using techniques like search engine optimiza­tion, they could inform and empower their community. 
Well, now the West Seattle blog will have to compete with a merged media and distribution company that can prioritize information. Interestingly enough, the Federal Communications Commission insists this merger is in the interest of consumers. 
When Comcast can silence its critics, it will be difficult for such a ludicrous statement to receive any backlash. 
Previous to this conjoining of two major media con­glomerates, we had hope for freedom of information. Our free speech rights in the United States were something many countries in the world could hardly fathom. 
“I was astounded by the freedom of speech you have here,” said Zedidi Oni, a native of the West African nation of Togo. “You can talk about the government and still go to sleep at night not being afraid if you will not wake up in the morning. In my country, you can’t really say any­thing or do anything against the government. Unless you want to risk your life or your family’s, you constantly remain living in fear.” 
We were a paradigm for freedom of speech. Now that speech can be controlled, manipulated or even silenced. 
The internet was the “fifth estate.” It was a forum for watchdogs to keep our “fourth estate” media in check. Techniques of web advertising were the Wild West, with technology entrepreneurs creating new markets for information on an hourly basis. 
But now we are entering a new world of cyberspace: a world where NBC Universal will be the vehicle for pro­pelling the economic interests of Comcast. 
A world where bloggers can be supressed, independent Web developers are imprisoned and information entre­preneurs are left fresh out of options. 
And one government organization is to blame. 
The FCC wields a great deal of power of who speaks to it. It regulates satellite, radio and TV transmissions. It controls ownership rules that most of the United States does not even know exist. 
These laws regulate how many television or radio sta­tions a single owner can own, or whether newspapers can own television stations, and how many. These are regulations that are supposed to ensure diverse owner­ship of media, which subsequently encourages a fairness of ideas. 
The concentration of media in the hands of fewer and fewer companies is not a new development, but the reforms in the last two decades have been astonishing. 
In 1983, more than 80 percent of the media was con­trolled by just 50 companies. By 1992, that number had been more than halved to 14. By 2010, the overwhelming majority of the mass media was owned by only five cor­porations. 
At this point, the FCC has relaxed ownership rules so much that fairness in media is nearly impossible. We have a set of changes that will move us in exactly in the wrong direction. 
Comcast-NBC can now dominate the dialogue of our communities, moving it in whatever direction that satis­fies its investors and advertisers. 
Alternative ideas from independent media companies will become nearly impossible, as Comcast can prioritize information at will. 
It will control the reservoir of information, the pipelines and the dams that stop it. 
I fear for the day when it buys Facebook or Google. 
This article was first published in the Jan. 28 issue of The Oregon Daily Emerald, the daily publication serving the University of Oregon. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Improv standout 
Dear Alvin, 

This is a shout-out to say how awesome you were Saturday night. Man, things were getting pretty slow with the “President of Egypt” skit that 3033 Improv troupe was trying to pull off, and then after intermission, when they invited you on stage, I was so happy that you agreed to join them. I have to say that hands down, you made my night the best night with the Humor Artists ever. Your quick thinking and witty replies to the dialogue had me and my friends rolling in the aisles. For those not present, you began as the humble waiter for a skit, but then showed your true talents as a babysitter in the following act. As you and your brother and sis­ter attempted to pick a movie to watch, you quickly devised a chocolate Domino’s pizza to resolve the situation! And when your friends were stuck in the airport terminal due to bad weather, you cheerfully declared, “The weath­er’s clearing up!” and flew the plane to Miami yourself. The best part, by far, was the Mariott Murder Mystery Party, when you effectively identified the murderer in a mere three sec­onds. Alvin, you showed great promise and poise as an improvisational performer Saturday night, and for that, we thank you. 
Your friend, 
Deborah Olmstead 
senior Welsh Family Hall Jan. 30 

Pet controversy 
Reading the recent article “Rectors’ pets call residence halls home” (Jan. 26) I was struck by the certain unfair quality inherent in the story. As a resident of Walsh, with a new rector this year, we did not have the good fortune of hav­ing a dog grandfathered in. By the new rule, we are now prohibited from owning one, much to the dismay of our rector and all of the girls in our dorm. It seems highly unfair that we should be excluded from this privilege and opportunity solely on the basis of circum­stance. There are numerous benefits that result from owning an animal, many of which are especially relevant to college living. Having a dog in the dorm would encourage responsi­bility, healthy living and overall wellness while offering a relaxing outlet to students. From issues of depression to grief counseling, dogs have proved effective in reducing stress, home­sickness and promoting well-being. In regards to allergies, being one of the oldest dorms on campus without much ventilation and totally lacking air conditioning, the addition of a dog would hardly have a significant effect on the air quality. With all of the positive effects, such a minor hypothetical difficulty seems trivial. Notre Dame has always striven to provide a multitude of resources to promote the health of its students, and it seems ridiculous that they should deny our dorms one of the possibly most beneficial. 
They say that dogs are man’s best friend. Well, the women of Walsh are waiting. 
Kat Leach 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
Jan. 27 


The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, January 31, 2011 

within the first minute. For the first time in his ca reer Beam made a record that sounds like it was actually made by a band, not just by someone with a guitar. This record is very musically diverse, incorporating everything from horns to a harp. 
Beam also uses bizarre-sound­ing guitar effects and even some electronic elements on “Kiss Each Other Clean.” This may lead some listeners to draw parallels to fel­low folkie Sufjan Steven’s latest album “The Age of Adz” released late last year, in which Stevens also used electronic elements to compliment what was generally a folk rock album otherwise. Beam also has bec ome a master at multi-tracking his own voice, in much the same vein as Bon Iver’s Justin Vernon. 
Finally, there are moments on the record, such as the last part 
of 
seven -minute closing epic “Your Fake Name Is Good Enough for Me,” that go for a “fuzzed­out” or “cluttered” feel, bringing to mind so -called “fuzz -folk ” artists such as Neutral Milk Hotel 

or 
The Microphones that saw their heyday at the beginning of the last decade. 


What makes this album great is undoubtedly Beam’s lyrics. A few lines from album highlight “Rabb it Will Run” shows what attracts listeners to Iron & Wine’s strange poetry: “We all live in grace at the end of the day/And we’ve armed all the children we thought we’d betrayed/And I still have a prayer, but too few occa­sions to pray.” 
Contact Chris Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 
By CHRIS COLLUM 
Scene Writer 

“Kiss Each Other Clean” is the 
fourth studio album by folk rock 
craft sman Sam Beam, the cre­
ative force behind Iron & Wine. 
After releasing a pair of albums 
and a few EPs that consisted 
largely of Beam’s acoustic strum­
ming and hushed melodies, he 
teamed up with numerous other 
musicians for th e politically 
charged “The Shepherd’s Dog,” 
released in 2007. 

“The Shepherd’s Dog” was very well received by most critics, and began to slowly expand Beam’s audience. This was in large part due to the album’s closing track, “Flightless Bird, American Mouth” in the “Twilight” movie and best-selling soundtrack. 
Like many independent artists 
who are di scovered through 
movie soundtracks, Iron & Wine’s 
first post-Twilight album comes 
on a major label for the first time. Despite this good news, the new label may be a cause of con­cern for longtime fans worried about Beam’s direction. 
Still, veteran fans need not 
worry, as Beam is as good as he 
has ever been, if not better. 
Album opener “Walking Far from 
Home” has been floating around 
on the Internet for a few months 
and acts as a manifesto for the 
album’s thematic elements. It is 
almost certainly one of Beam’s 
finest melodies to date. 

Bea m has always had a dis ­tinctly vivid writing style, and that certainly has not changed on this album. “Kiss Each Other Clean” discusses themes of youth, faith and love in one fell swoop, wit h a conspicuously pastoral tone. 
“Tree by the River” is a great ex ample of this. It is a tale of adolescent romance, presumably set in the South Carolina country­side in which Beam grew up. “I recall the sun in our faces/Stuck and leaning on braces/And being strangers to change” perfectly describes wha t he is singing about, and gives the listener a sense of his meaning as well. 
Avid Iron & Wine listeners may be wondering how similar or dif­ferent this new album is. “Walking Far from Home” should answer that question and quell doubts about the record’s quality 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, January 31, 2011 page 11 


By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Sofia Llompart 
Spotted: Working out at Rolfs 
Sofia hits the gym with style! Her matching 
shorts and shirt are perfect for a jog or a spin on the stationary bike. Her red sweater adds color to her outfit and is great for the weather. Sofia definitely knows how to accessorize when she exercises! Her oversize bag and iPod are essential for a good workout. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
Sometimes when I’m in one place for too long, I get a little restless. The world starts to feel like a stalled elevator, and I get a bit claustrophobic. No matter how much I love Notre Dame, some­times I just need to get away. I know that South Bend’s limitless array of exciting weekend activities is undeniable, but really, Laura there are only 
Mittelstaedt 

so many busy, snowy and endlessly gray 
Scene W riter 

days I can han­dle in a row. Also, I get bored of eating at the dining hall. 
This semester, I will be writing a regular column for those of you who, like me, have a bad case of wanderlust and need some ideas for places to go. This is your source for nearby travel destinations wor­thy of walking all the way out to the D6 parking lot, hopping in the car and leaving Notre Dame in the dust for a day or two. 
I will kick off this column with a three-part series on perhaps the most obvious local destination: Chicago. It always surprises me how rarely Notre Dame students go to Chicago because of its relative proximity. Chicago is a fantastic city with tons of things to do and really great food. Also, I swear it’s always a little sunnier there, and even if it isn’t, there’s just some­thing invigorating about being sur­rounded by buildings and people. Though I encourage you to explore Chicago on your own, especially in the neighborhoods north of down­town, I will spend the next three weeks focusing on fun things to do from museums to cupcake shops. 
First, Getting There 
Chicago is easily accessible from Notre Dame by train or car. The South Shore Line ($10.95 each way) leaves South Bend Regional Airport five times daily and arrives at Millennium Station in downtown Chicago about two and a half hours later. Though two and a half hours might sound a bit daunting, the ride goes by quickly, especially if you have a good book or friends with you. If you’re not into public transportation, Chicago is about an hour and 45 minutes away by car via I-80 and the Skyway. Parking can add up pretty quickly, and driv­ing around downtown can be a lit­tle scary if you’ve never driven in a large city before, but hey, if you want to, go for it. 
Parking in Chicago 
Finding parking in the city, espe­cially reasonably priced parking, can be tricky. Many department stores have discounted parking (about $12) if you make a purchase at the store (Nordstrom, Bloomingdale’s and Fox & Obel, for example). Otherwise, parking garage rates are generally between $20 and $30 per day. If you are in the north side neighborhoods (Lincoln Park, Wrigleyville, Uptown, etc.) there are streets with free parking from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., as well as metered spots ($1.50 per hour during the day; free between 9 p.m. and 8 a.m.). If you want more information about parking rates and hours, www.chicagome­ters.com is a great resource. 
Getting Around 
Chicago’s train system (the CTA) is efficient and runs regularly, so it is perfect for getting back and forth between downtown and north-side neighborhoods, or even just around downtown if the Windy City is too cold for walking. Single tickets are $2.25 and can be pur­chased with cash at kiosks in each of the train stations. If you think you’ll ride the train a lot, a day-pass ($5.75) is a good option. Refer to transitchicago.com for map and schedule information. 
A Tourist in Chicago 
I don’t want to spend too much time on touristy things to do in Chicago because they are easy enough to find on the Internet or in guidebooks. However, I do have a few recommendations if you’ve never been to the city before. 
The Art Institute of Chicago ($12) is one of my favorite museums. The permanent collection is outstanding and the new Modern Wing is impressive, making the Institute a great way to escape the cold for a few hours. 
A short walk from the Art Institute, Millennium Park is always a fun stop, even when it’s cold outside. In the winter, the park offers ice skating (free with a $10 skate rental) and features “The Bean:” a giant stainless steel mir­ror-like sculpture shaped like a jelly bean that never gets old. Finally, the Skydeck ($15.95) at the Willis Tower (formerly the Sears Tower) lets you see the city from 1,353 feet above street level, and you can even step into newly installed glass boxes that allow you to literally see the city beneath your feet — a bit scary, but fun. 
When it’s warmer, a myriad of free or inexpensive activities are offered in Millennium and Grant Park from free yoga to free con­certs and movies. See chicagoparkdistrict.com for fun things to do before heading into the city. 
So this, my friends, has been my very brief introduction to Chicago. Keep a look out for more articles in the next two weeks with recom­mendations for foodies and shopa­holics in Chicago and more. Until then, fellow Domers, keep wander­ing. 
Contact Laura Mittelstaedt at lmittels@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 31, 2011 
NBA 

Heat trio reunites in win over Oklahoma City 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Miami finally had its Big 3 of LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh reunited, and Oklahoma City’s top trio was at its best, too. 
Yet none of those stars came away with the biggest shot of the game. 
Eddie House hit the go ­ahead 3-pointer with 22.2 seconds left, then added two free throws to seal the Miami Heat’s 108-103 victory in a Sunday showcase in which their All -Star triumvirate played together for the first time in nearly three weeks. 
“Any time Eddie raises and shoots, you think it’s going in,” Wade said. “He’s one of those guys that look for the moment.” 
Wade scored 32 points, James added 23 points and 13 rebounds and Bosh had 20 points — and coach Erik Spoelstra pulled the right string by putting House into the lineup during a timeout after Kevin Durant’s jumper had put the Thunder up 103­102 with 34.3 seconds left. 
Wade missed a jumper from the left wing, Mike Miller snagged the rebound and kicked it out to James, who passed it over to House for a 3 on the right sideline that made it 105-103. 
“He’s a unique player because he’s ready and ignitable without rhythm min­utes. Not many players in this league, you can do that, ” Spoelstra said. “You throw him in, he hasn’t played, if he’s been sitting for a while, he feels like he’s hot.” 
Durant scored 33 points but missed a contested jumper along the left baseline with 15 seconds left that would’ve put the Thunder back on top. Jeff Green had 23 points and 11 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook added 21 points and 10 assists as Oklahoma City’s top three scorers all reached 20 points for just the third time this season. 
It still wasn’t enough to match a similar performance from Miami’s Big 3, who all eclipsed 20 points in the same game for the 11th time. The Heat are 9-2 when that hap­pens. 
“I don’t look at it as the ‘big three.’ They may look at it like that over there, but over here we’re a whole group,” Durant said. 
After House’s go-ahead 3, James contested Durant ’s attempt to tie it at the other end and Nick Collison swatted the rebound toward midcourt. Wade tracked it down and got fouled, hit his first free throw before missing the second, and that rebound was initially awarded to the Thunder after it went out of bounds under the basket with 6.9 seconds left. 
James walked back to the huddle saying confidently, “It’s our ball” — and a replay proved him right. The ball deflected off Collison, and House hit two free throws to close it out. 
“We don’t take moral victo­ries here. We wanted to win that game,” Durant said. “We had the game won and we just didn’t. Moral victories have been out the door for two years now.” 
Bosh had been sidelined four games with a sprained left ankle and Wade had missed two of those game due to migraine headaches and a wrist injury. Before that, James missed two games, also with a sprained left ankle. It had been since Jan. 12 since all three played together. 
“It felt good to have guys back. It threw us off a little bit early. We hadn’t played with each other for a while. But with Chris coming back early, to try to gut it out and go tonight, we needed just to get wins,” Wade said. “Hopefully, we can build on it.” 
The Heat had been scuf ­fling, losing five of six before beating Detroit by a point Friday night on James Jones’ disputed block of Austin Daye’s dunk at the buzzer. Oklahoma City, meanwhile, had lost three of four and then needed overtime to beat Minnesota and Washington — both in last place — in their last two games. 
Wade staked the Heat to their largest lead by spinning away from Westbrook for a jumper along the left baseline that made it 98-90 with 5:51 to play and finished a 13-2 run. 
But Wade was still upset after Serge Ibaka blocked his layup attempt on Miami’s next possession and drew a technical foul after Green got a fast -break layup at the other end that would start a 13-4 comeback for Oklahoma City. 
Westbrook and Durant each hit a pair of free throws to cut the deficit to one, and the Thunder got a chance to go ahead after Bosh’s missed jumper on a failed attempt to draw a foul against Durant — with the same rip move Durant uses frequently to catch opponents reaching in against him. 
Durant came around a screen and connected on a jumper from the top of the key with 34.3 seconds left to put Oklahoma City up 103­


102. It was one of only two shots Durant made in 10 sec­ond-half attempts, with most of his damage coming from foul line. He was 11 for 13 in the second half and finished 16 for 19. 
NHL 

Team Lidstrom comes back to win high-scoringAll-Star game 
ing a four-minute span of the the second pick to Lidstrom, and decked out in red hardly seemed remaining, Loui Eriksson sealed 
Associated Press 

third period to lift Team Lidstrom Stamkos scored the goal that to care that Sidney Crosby and it by scoring into an empty net at 
RALEIGH, N.C. — Sorry Team over Team Staal 11-10 on made it 6-6 in the second period. his Pittsburgh Penguins team-18:49. That insurance was neces-Staal, Team Lidstrom felt right at Sunday in the NHL All-Star Ward could hardly be blamed mate Evgeni Malkin were miss-sary because Staal gave the RBC home in Carolina. game. for the four goals he gave up in ing because of injuries. Center one more reason to yell 
Eric Staal had the No. 1 pick in Lidstrom can add this victory to the first. Pittsburgh’s Marc-Andre Staal’s club had a 4-0 lead in when he made it 11-10 with his the inaugural NHL All-Star fanta-the four Stanley Cup titles and six Fleury also allowed four in the the first, that was gone before fourth career All-Star goal with sy draft and the unconditional Norris trophies he has won with opening 20 minutes of a typically the intermission, and an 8-7 edge 34 seconds remaining. support of his hometown the Detroit Red Wings. defenseless All-Star game. after Kris Letang’s second goal Philadelphia’s Briere got one of Carolina Hurricanes fans behind Maybe Staal’s pick of One consolation for the Staals: early in the third. the injury replacement spots and him. Hurricanes goalie Cam Ward Chicago’s Patrick Sharp claimed Then Lidstrom’s club staged its made the most of it. Briere gave 
Still, he was left with a loss to a with the No. 1 selection in the MVP honors in a losing cause second comeback and grabbed a Team Lidstrom a 7-6 lead with proven winner — Nicklas fantasy draft wasn’t such a good after he posted a goal and two late third-period lead — only to 4:29 left in the second period and Lidstrom. idea, after all. Tampa Bay’s assists. have Team Staal attempt a rally. then tied it 8-8 at 9:57 into the 
Danny Briere, Jonathan Toews, Steven Stamkos, the league With the team in white named After Rick Nash brought Team final period with his third career and Martin St. Louis scored dur-leader with 38 goals, went with after Staal, the Carolina fans Staal within a goal with 4:49 All-Star goal. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Right next to the new Eddy Street  from $465 per bed.  For more information, visit ND's  Claire: We need a game plan, we  
FOR RENT  Commons  Swimming Pool  PERSONAL  website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu  need to map out exactly what we are going to say, because that is  
Walk to everything  the only way I will be able to hold it  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  Fitness Center  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  ———————————————  together while our babies look at us  
RENTAL:  Safe family oriented street.  with judgment and disgust.  
Tanning Beds.  Don't go it alone.  If you or someone you care about  
House for rent for  Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for  has been sexually assaulted, we  Phil: That's how they always look at  
graduation  additional info and photos  Notre Dame has many resources in  can help.  us.  
JPW  Clover Village and Clover Ridge.  place to assist you.  
weddings  ———————————————  ———————————————  
football, etc.  574.272.8124  If you or someone you love needs  For more information, visit Notre  
Walk to Campus Student Housing.  confidential support or assistance,  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  Phil: Why do I have to watch a  
Perfect location  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  French movie, I didn't do anything  
1, 2, and 3 bedrooms  www.clovervillageapartments.com  wrong.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Monday, January 31, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
St. John’s dominates Duke in upset victory 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK —Teams that beat Duke have reason to celebrate. Teams that blow Duke out of the building should be able to party all night. 
So, how long will the St. John’s players be allowed to celebrate Sunday’s 93-78 victory over No. 3 Duke—a game that wasn’t as close as the final score indicat­ed? 
“Coach Lav said we had two hours to celebrate and then we have to get ready for Rutgers,” senior forward Justin Burrell said, referring to first-year coach Steve Lavin and the Red Storm’s next opponent on Wednesday. 
Two hours? It will take longer than that just to go over the highlight plays of a game that St. John’s had won by halftime. Those last 20 minutes were just a formality. 
“I felt like we were ready. The guys wanted to play this game,” Duke guard Nolan Smith said. “We wanted to be here but they came out from the jump ball and kicked our butts.” 
It wasn’t that St. John’s (12-8) beat the Blue Devils (19-2), it was the way it happened. 
St. John’s was finishing a stretch of eight straight games against ranked teams. This win gave them three wins in that span. It was enough to have Lavin waving his arms to the crowd at a media timeout in the second half. 
“You’re caught up in the moment of the game and I want­ed St. John’s fans to come to the party in terms of supporting the players on the court,” Lavin said. 
“We had this arduous stretch of games and having lost five of six, at that moment it was just want­ing to jumper cable the crowd and bring energy for our players because they deserved a pat on the back and some appreciation for the yeoman’s effort and the cohesive brand of basketball they had been playing against the defending national champi­on.” 
The Red Storm, who had lost three straight and five of six, took control early and had a 46­25 lead at halftime. Duke, which came into the game shooting 40 percent from 3-point range, missed its first 10 shots from behind the arc and made one of 13 in the half. 
The Blue Devils’ overall shoot­ing wasn’t a whole lot better as they shot 29.6 percent (8 of 27) in the half—they entered the game shooting 48.1 percent from the field—and they were careless with the ball as well, committing 11 turnovers, one off their season average for a game. 
St. John’s had a lot to do with how poorly Duke played, using a three-quarter court trap to force the Blue Devils into low percent­age passes that almost all seemed to either be stolen by St. John’s or just thrown away. 
“It’s not an Xs and Os thing today,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. “I felt we were not ready to compete, we had blank expressions on our faces and guys weren’t talking and that’s my responsibility. Our pro­gram didn’t do well today and that is all our responsibilities.” 
There was plenty of praise to go around for the Red Storm, who gave the Big East a 6-1 record against teams ranked in the top 10 this season. They were 16 of 28 from the field 
(57.1 percent) in the first half, well above the 45.2 percent the Red Storm were shooting coming into the game. 
Dwight Hardy had 26 points for St. John’s, while Justin Brownlee had 20 points, nine rebounds and six assists and Paris Horne added 15 points and six assists. St. John’s shot 58.2 percent for the game (32 of 55) and was 26 of 33 from the free throw line. 
“I thought our team from the outset executed with precision on offense and brought great intensity to the defensive end of the floor,” Lavin said, “and we were able to maintain a high level of basketball for 40 min­utes and that was the differ­ence.” 
Duke’s loss continued the weekend of misery for members of the Top 25. On Saturday, four teams in the top 10 and 11 ranked teams overall lost. 
Smith led Duke with 32 points and Kyle Singler added 20. Duke finished 5 of 26 from 3-point range—they missed 21 of the first 22 attempts—and had 17 turnovers. 
“To sum it up they got whatev­er they wanted and we just weren’t able to bounce back and match them,” Singler said. 
The sellout crowd of 19,353 at Madison Square Garden—about 60 percent of whom were cheer­ing for St. John’s—seemed to be waiting for a run by the Blue Devils, who had won four straight since its loss at Florida State, that would make their nightmare half go away. 


St. John’s came out and scored the first two baskets of the sec­ond half— one on a dunk by D.J. Kennedy 10 seconds in, the other on a layup by Hardy off a nice pass from Dwayne Polee II—to take its biggest lead of the game, 50-25 1:04 into the sec­ond half. 
St. John’s had doubled Duke and the Red Storm managed to score enough the rest of the way to keep the Blue Devils at bay. The closest Duke would get would be 11 points after they hit four straights 3-pointers to pull to 87-76. 
“I was really excited,” said Burrell who had eight points and five rebounds. “I’m one of those guys who really enjoys college basketball and I was excited to be a part of this.” 
The Red Storm started their run against ranked teams with a 61-58 victory over then-No. 13 Georgetown. After losses to Notre Dame and Syracuse, they beat then-No. 9 Notre Dame 72­54 in a rematch. Losses to Louisville, Cincinnati and Georgetown preceded the win over Duke. All three wins were at Madison Square Garden. 
“This was an interesting stretch as a coach,” Lavin said. “I don’t think it had ever hap­pened. The mathematical proba­bilities have got to be one in a zillion. “We’ve had to temper things with them and be mindful of that frustration. The concern was that our players realize this conference is really tough and you can lose five of six and not be playing bad basketball.” 


PGA TOUR 

Woods starts season slow at Torrey Pines 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Tiger Woods began a new year with his worst season debut. 
Woods failed to birdie a par 5 for the second time this week and closed with a 3-over 75 on Sunday in the Farmers Insurance Open, ending his five-tournament winning streak at Torrey Pines with a middle-of­the-pack finish. 
“I have some work to do,” Woods said. “There’s no doubt about that.” 
The biggest surprise of his 74­75 on the South Course is that Woods had won seven times on this public course, including the 2008 U.S. Open. He had never finished out of the top 10 in the PGA Tour event at Torrey Pines. 
This week, he looked liked anyone else. 
Woods was out of the top 40 when he completed his final round, with the leaders just making the turn. He had never finished out of the top 10 in stroke play to start a season, and his worst result for a debut was two years ago in the Match Play Championship, where he lost in the second round and tied for 17th. 
That was his first event after missing eight months following reconstructive knee surgery. 
Woods opened Sunday with two short irons inside 10 feet, missing both birdie putts. On the par-4 fourth, he nearly holed a long birdie attempt, then missed the 3 ½ -foot par putt. 
“I hit it as pure as I could pos­sibly hit it starting out, and got nothing out of it,” Woods said. “As the round went on, I pro­gressively got worse with my golf swing. And ironically enough, felt better and better with the putter. So it’s one of those things.” 
But these things never seem to happen at Torrey Pines. 
Woods won the Buick Invitational four straight times starting in 2005. He had never finished more than four shots out of the lead, but he was 13 out when he finished, the kind of deficit he experienced so much of last year. 
Much more was expected con­sidering how Woods finished last year, putting together three of his best rounds at the Chevron World Challenge until blowing a four-shot lead on the final day and losing to U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell in a playoff. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2011 
TENNIS 

Djokovic wins Australian Open championship 
scream of a satisfaction. 
“Maybe there was a turning point in the whole match, that 5-4 game,” Djokovic said. “I was a bit fortunate, kind of anticipated well and read his intentions and played some great shots and great moments.” 
The first set had gone with serve until then, and Djokovic stepped up his intensity. That was the second in a seven-game win­ning sequence for Djokovic that took the match from Murray. 
“It is a big advantage mentally when you are a set up and you are getting to the second set and really going for the shots,” he said. “So it was great.” 
Murray started to lose focus as the service breaks tallied against him. He didn’t look sharp. He held his back and seemed to limp around, swearing under his breath as his unforced errors mounted and yelling at the people in his players box to keep quiet. 
At stages during the second set he repeatedly blinked and rubbed his eyes— maybe he just couldn’t believe what he was seeing. Murray said he didn’t have any ailments that caused him prob­lems in the match, and just con­ceded Djokovic was too good. 
“I would have liked to have played better. But, you know, I think he would have beaten every other player on the tour if he played like that tonight,” Murray said. “He served well. He didn’t make many mistakes from the back of the court. He moved real­ly, really well. He hit the ball very clean. That was it.” 
Murray said he was in a better state of mind after Sunday’s loss than he had been last year, when he was comprehensively out­played by Federer. 
“I look at the tournament as a whole, it was excellent,” he said. “I don’t think anyone would say that reaching a slam final is a bad achievement.” 
Djokovic said he sorted out some personal issues that were clouding his concentration after some disappointing losses in Melbourne and at the French Open last year, and it paid off with his run to the U.S. Open final— including a semifinal win over Federer. 
Now, he’s truly on a roll. 
“Something switched in my head, because I am very emotion­al on and off the court,” Djokovic said. “The things off court were not working for me, you know? It reflected on my game, on my pro­fessional tennis career. But then, 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Novak Djokovic gave his old friend Andy Murray a sympathetic hug and a few consoling words, then got on with the real celebrations. 
Djokovic walked to the middle of the court, tossed his racket into the crowd, then stripped off his shirt and shoes and hurled them, too. 
The 23-year-old Serb had plenty to celebrate after his 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 win over Murray in the Australian Open final on Sunday night. Djokovic’s second Australian title made him only the fourth active player on the men’s tour to win multiple majors. Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer have had a lock on the men’s side, winning 21 of the previous 23, while Lleyton Hewitt has two titles—the last coming at Wimbledon in 2002. 
“It’s been a fantastic tourna­ment for me,” Djokovic said. “I don’t want to fly up to the sky and say, ‘I am the best,’ or whatever. I cannot compare to Rafa and Roger’s success.” 
He’s the most successful player so far in 2011, though, and that’s what counts right now. 
“Certainly this will give me a lot of motivation for the continuation of the season, because to win a Grand Slam at the start of the season is the best start you can ask for,” he said. “It means a world to me. I’m still 23. I still have a lot of time to go.” 
Top-ranked Nadal came to Australia aiming to win a fourth consecutive major and complete a “Rafa Slam.” He lost in the quar­terfinals. Federer came in as the defending champion and lost to Djokovic in the semifinals. 
The loss for fifth-seeded Murray continued his horrible stretch in Grand Slam finals—he hasn’t won a set in three tries, including loss­es to Federer last year in Australia and at the 2009 U.S. Open. It also extended the long drought for British men at the majors that dates back to Fred Perry’s titles in 1936. 
Djokovic and Murray have been friends since they started playing each other at age 11 or 12, and often practice against each other. They’re even talking about play­ing doubles together. 
“I understand how he feels. It’s his third final and he didn’t get the title,” Djokovic said. “As I said on court, I really have big respect for him and his game, because I think he has everything that it takes to become a Grand Slam champion.” 
He thinks the pressure on Murray to break the British drought may weigh the Scotsman down. 
“It is in some ways a mental issue when you are facing a situa­tion, playing the finals of a Grand Slam, being so close to winning a title,” Djokovic said. “Every time you get it there, you know, you want to win it badly, but some things go wrong. 
“You’re thinking too much. You’re worrying too much in your head,” he added. “It’s a mental battle, definitely. Bottom line is that this is a very mental sport in the end.” 
That’s why he took his time to reflect after winning a 38-hit rally in the 10th game with a brilliant backhand that forced an error to set up set point on Murray’s serve. He closed his eyes tightly, clenched his fists and let out a you know, I settled some things in my head. It was all on me. I had to try to find the best possible solution and try to get back on the right track.” 


Sunday started with Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia and Daniel Nestor of Canada winning the mixed double doubles champi­onship, beating Chan Yung-jan of Taiwan and Paul Hanley of Australia 6-3, 3-6, 10-7. The day ended with Djokovic kissing the men’s singles trophy and holding it high for hundreds of Serbian fans decked out in red-white-and­blue clothes of all descriptions. 
He planned a night of celebra­tions, something he did long and hard after helping Serbia win its first Davis Cup title at the start of December. Since then, he has knuckled down to work. 
ND WOMEN’S TRACK 

Irish runners earn three wins at Indiana Relays 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish had three first-place finish­es to close out the Indiana Relays in Bloomington, Ind. Friday and Saturday. 
Notre Dame, who also had five sec-ond-place finishes, competed against Indiana, Michigan, Miami (Ohio), Missouri State and Southeast Missouri, among other schools. The Irish did not come out on top in any of their relays, but made a strong showing across the board in individual competitions. 
Junior Molly Hirt returned to her hometown of Bloomington with a bang, winning the 3000-meter race in 
9:57.62. Freshman Jaclyn Winkle won the 400-meter dash in 57.92, while sophomore Madeline Casanova fin­ished first in the shot put with a dis­tance of 13.72 meters. 
Sophomore Rebecca Tracy, who recorded the second-fastest mile time in the country last week, came in sixth in the mile at 4:47.70. Senior Natalie Johnson was third in the 600-meter, and freshman Michelle Brown fin­ished the 400-meter dash in fifth place. 
Brown has made a noticeably quick adjustment to competing in college track. 
“[For] Michelle, that was definitely a step in the right direction,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. “She’s a freshman, and a lot of times with freshmen, it takes them a while to figure out where they are. I thought this weekend was a reallynicecompetitiveeffort.” 
In the field events, the Irish had a pair of impressive finishes from senior Jasmine Williams’ fifth place finish in long jump at 5.56 meters and senior Rudy Atang’s third in shot put, with a distance of 15.10 meters. The week­end continued a strong line of success­ful indoor performances for Atang, who returned to the field after suffer­ing from a severe ankle injury. 
“Rudy missed most of the fall with ankle surgery,” Connelly said. “So the fact that she’s throwing so well this early is a real pleasant surprise.” 
The Indiana Relays were good preparation for later in the season, Connelly said. Not only were there many competitive squads, but compet­ing on the indoor track at Indiana will be beneficial for the future, as well. 
“One of the reasons we went down there is because it’s a 200-meter bank track, which, quite honestly, most of the country runs on,” Connelly said. “We’re kind of spoiled. We run on the huge 320-meter track all the time [at Notre Dame]. So one of the reasons we try to go to some meets on smaller tracks before the championship meets is to give them that kind of experi­ence.” 
The Irish are next in action at the Meyo Invitational Friday and Saturday attheLoftusSportsComplex. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


Monday, January 31, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
game at 5-5 with less than four and losing the shootout point, minutes remaining. Freshman Notre Dame was encouraged by 
Miami 
left wing Anders Lee earned its resiliency. three assists, while sophomore “Any time you’re playing 65 
continued from page 20 
center Riley Sheahan and junior minutes of that kind of hockey, 

“It was a great game,” right wing Billy Maday each you want to come out on top,” Jackson said. “I would assume scored once. Maday said. “[But] I think it was the fans enjoyed themselves. It “It was a fun game to be a great step for us to show that was back and forth all game involved in as a coach, but it we could come back from a two-long.” [was] a bit nerve-wracking,” goal deficit in that short of a 
A raucous sellout crowd of Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. time — it’s great character for 2,957 was on hand Friday for It looked bleak for Notre Dame our team.” “White-Out” Night, and the when senior RedHawk center It was evident that there was Notre Dame freshmen did their Andy Miele recorded his first no love lost between the best to give them their money’s goal and fourth point of the RedHawks and Irish, as there worth. Freshman wing Jeff night with just 9:29 remaining to were multiple post-whistle scuf-Costello got the Irish on the open up a 5-3 Miami lead. fles and a total of 10 penalties board first in the first period Sheahan’s goal merely two min-over the course of the game. The and freshman center T.J. Tynan utes later gave the Irish hope, penalties hurt Notre Dame, as tied the game 2-2 after a and Tynan’s equalizer sent the Miami converted on three of its RedHawk run and then complet-home crowd into a frenzy. four power play opportunities. ed a late comeback to tie the Despite not scoring in overtime “As long as we play with that 
physicality, it makes us a better team — as long as we don’t take unnecessary penalties,” Jackson said. “There were breakdowns that I didn’t like to see on the penalty kill.” 

The energy of Friday night gave way to a more refined and controlled, but equally tight, Saturday evening affair. Freshmen led the way yet again for the Irish, as Lee scored two in a row and setting the stage “If it was a hit to the head, it’s goals in a 2-2 tie and Tynan con-for Tynan’s walk-off winner. a penalty,” Jackson said. “I don’t verted the only goal of the “Steven Summerhays did what think it was an elbow necessari­shootout to give Notre Dame the he had to do in goal, which is ly from what I’ve been told. It’s shootout point. Junior defense-really all we need — make the unfortunate that we had to take man Sean Lorenz said the focus saves that you’re supposed to a penalty in the third period, Saturday was in tightening up make and make a few that because it’s one of the biggest leaky fundamentals that led to you’re not supposed to make,” things, one of the most impor­Friday’s wide-open play. Jackson said. “He did a good job tant things about winning a 
“We talked about last night, for us tonight and that’s impor-game like this is to not take that we needed to tighten up tant for our team.” penalties, especially as the game some of our puck decisions and The Irish appeared to take the progresses.” our play,” he said. “We came out upper hand midway through the With the shootout win, the and tried to do some of the little, third period when Sheahan Irish close the weekend with 44 simple things. We came out and scored what seemed to be a goal points in the CCHA, good for a executed well tonight.” to put the Irish up 3-1 on a one-point lead over Michigan, 
After conceding five goals breakaway. The goal was called though the Wolverines have two Friday night, sophomore Mike off, however, when Costello was games in hand on the Irish. Johnson gave way to freshman whistled for elbowing on a hit The Irish will now enter a bye Steve Summerhays in goal. right in front of the Irish bench. week, while preparing to take Summerhays performed well in Miami’s Alden Hirschfeld equal-on Bowling Green at home in regulation but shined in the cru-ized on the ensuing power play two weeks. cial shootout, stonewalling to cement the 2-2 final score. Miami’s Reilly Smith, Carter Jackson said the penalty was a Contact Chris Allen at Camper and Miele — three of tough blow to Notre Dame’s callen10@nd.edu and Allen college hockey’s best players — momentum. Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Doubles competition began with Rafael and Sabacinski in No. 3 dou-
Rafael 

bles, where they they flew past the continued from page 20 Bulldogs’ Elizabeth Epstein and Kim 
Szokol, 8-1. Frilling and Mathews at the beginning of the match. The secured the doubles victory for the final doubles match went unfin-Irish after a successful 8-5 match ished, as Arkansas had already against Vicky Brook and Lindsay taken the doubles point, despite by Clark, pulling ahead after a 4-4 tie in the Irish pair of freshman Jennifer the middle of the set. With the dou-Kellner and sophomore Chrissie bles point already landed, McGaffigan’s 6-5 lead against McGaffigan and Kellner’s 8-7 loss to Razorbacks Kate Lukomskaya and Stephanie Kent and Annie Sullivan Stephanie Roy. did not affect the overall score. 
Although Sunday pointed out “Our No. 3 team lost last week at some of the squad’s weaknesses, Illinois and we’ve worked with them Irish coach Jay Louderback said he a lot this week and they’ve played is hopeful for improvement. much better. They hadn’t played 
“We just got a little bit tight. As we together before so it was a new played higher ranked teams, that’s experience,” Louderback said. not going to be good, so hopefully “They played much better this week we’ll play a little better,” he said. which was exciting.” 
The Irish secured three of the six Frilling coasted past Brook in the singles victories, but not enough to No. 1 singles, taking the sets 6-1 and take the final decision. Mathews 6-2. McGaffigan found her first vic­
began the string of success, taking tory of the season at No. 4, taking Lukomskaya, 6-1, 6-0. Rafael, how-Sullivan 6-2 in both sets. Rafael ever, fell in both sets to Arkansas’s closed out the match for the Irish at Emily Cabone, 6-3, 6-0. number three, defeating freshman 
Ninth-ranked Frilling had little Blair Seiderman, 6-1, 7-5. trouble with No. 26 Tigu once they With the victory already in hand, played one-on-one, taking her sin-Mathews triumphed over Epstein, gles sets, 6-3, 6-1, after Tigu experi-6-0, 7-6, Kellner took Stevi Petrelli enced an ankle injury in the first set. 1-6, 6-2,1-0, and Sabacinski closed Sabacinski continued the momen-out the day with 7-6, 6-3 against tum by defeating Starkova, 6-4, 6-1. Szokol. After that, the Notre Dame’s luck “The two singles that lost last ran out when McGaffigan fell to week won today, which was good. It Paulson in the No. 4 match, 6-2, 6-4, was their first match of the year so it and Kellner fell 2-6, 6-1, 6-0 to Roy, was good for them to bounce back,” despite an early lead, at No. 5. Louderback said of Saturday’s play. 
The Irish entered the champi-Notre Dame will travel to North onship match with great energy Carolina this week, where they will after easily triumphing over 47th-face the University of North Carolina ranked Yale the day before. They Saturday and Wake Forest Sunday. won two of the three doubles com­petitions to earn the doubles point Contact Megan Finneran at before sweeping all six singles mfnnera@nd.edu and Matt matches. mrobison@nd.edu 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2011 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish split pair of matches at ITA Kick-Off Weekend 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 36 Irish went 1-1 this weekend at the ITA Kick-Off Weekend in Champaign, Ill., as they defeated No. 17 Oklahoma Friday before falling to No. 16 Illinois in the final round Saturday. 
“We played extremely well over this past weekend, the best we have played since the 2007 team went to No. 4 in late April,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “In both matches we fought relentlessly and competed as well as anyone can. Our doubles has turned into a strength, as we lost only one of the six doubles matches against two top 20 teams, both of whom are like­ly to end up in the top 10.” 
Notre Dame jumped out to an early 3-0 lead against Oklahoma after clinching the doubles point early. Victories from the No. 1 duo of seniors Stephen Havens and Tyler Davis, as well as at No. 2 with junior Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Spencer Talmadge secured the doubles point and allowed the third doubles match to go unfinished. 
In singles No. 122 Davis was able to earn a 6-2, 6-2 victory at No. 6 over John Warden. Fellow senior Dan Stahl earned the third Irish point at No. 3 singles with his victory over Laurentiu Gavrila, 6-3, 6-4. 
At No. 5 singles, junior Sam Keeton dropped the only com­pleted singles match for the Irish in a hard fought battle losing, 6-1, 7-6 (8), to Tsvetan Mihov. 
No. 104 junior Casey Watt clinched the victory for the Irish with a victory at No. 1 singles over No. 26 Ionut Beleleu. 
The Irish lost a hard-fought battle against the Illini, drop­ping the match 4-1 to round out the weekend. 
At No. 1 doubles, No. 47 Havens and Davis were defeated 8-1 by Dennis Nevolo and Johnny Hamui while the No. 2 doubles duo of Fitzgerald and Talmadge ran up a 6-0 lead before clinching an 8-3 victory to knot the dou­bles point at 1-1. 
“The doubles has been grat­ifying to see,” Bayliss said. “Fitzgerald and Talmadge have been a real strength for us. Davis-Havens and Watt-Andrews are quite good, with different styles. We need to keep building on this part of our team. We have played all matches to date without injured David Anderson [last year's No. 5] and Billy Pecor, who had a strong fall.” 
Watt and freshman Greg Andrews secured the doubles point for the Irish with a hard fought 9-7 victory at No. 3 doubles over Brian Alden and Stephen Hoh. 
Havens lost a tough match at No. 2 singles to KU Singh in three sets. Keeton also lost in three sets to Roy Kalmanovich. 
Watt faced Nevolo and lost also in three sets, and Andrews lost the final match to No. 121 Abe Souza to clinch the match for the Illini. 
The Irish will return home next weekend to host Duke at 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Notre Dame wins two of four at Invitational 
Squad earns wins over Denver and Iowa, fall to Ohio State and Northwestern at Shamrock Invitational 
By VICTORIA JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame closed the Shamrock Invitational with a 2-2 split Saturday, beat­ing Denver and Iowa and losing to Ohio State and Northwestern on the team’s Senior Day. 
The Irish (4 -7) defeated Denver by a final score of 253-117 and Iowa by a tally of 264-104. But Ohio State 
outscored 
Notre Dame 

197 
.5 -166. 5, and Northwestern overpowered the Irish 193.5-176.5 for its second victory over Notre Dame this season. 


Sophomore Kim Holden and senior Samantha 
M a x w e l l  l e d  t h e  N o t r e  
D a m e  o f f e n s i  v e l y  i n  t h e  
pool.  

Holden won both the 100­and 200 -yard backstroke races and placed second in the 100-yard butterfly. She also swam legs in the first-place 400 -yard medley relay and second -placed 200-yard medley relay. 
“Kim is a superstar. She works hard every day, and it shows when she races. She goes out there and gives it everything she has and steps up and gets the job done every time,” sen­ior Kellyn Kuhlke said. “We’re all really confident in her, and I think she ’s definitely gaining a lot more confidence. She’s just a good teammate, and we love to watch her race.” 
Maxwell also put in an 
outstanding performance, winning the 100 -yard breaststroke and 200-yard breaststroke with NCAA B-cut times. Maxwell also swam in 400-and 200-yard medley relays. 
Freshman Kelly Ryan and junior Amy Prestinario fin­ished out the 400 -yard 
relay squad, while Holden, Lauren Parisi, Scott and Maxwell and Prestinario Prestinario performed well, 
teamed up with sopho ­more Lauren Scott for the “Kim [Holden] is a 200-yard 
superstar. She works hard
medley. 
The relays every day, and it shows 
stood out as when she races. She goes some of the 
out there and gives it
most excit ­
everything she has.” 
ing events of the week ­end. In addi-Kellyn Kuhkle tion to the 
Irish senior
200 -and 400-yard medley relays, the 400 -yard free all of our finishing in a tie for second. The 400 ­and 800 ­yard free relays both finished in third. 
“I think 
our relays showed a lot of potential . We had a lot of con ­tenders in 
relays, so it was 
relay of Ryan, senior very competitive,” Holden 


noon and Toledo at 6 p.m. Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@stmarys.edu 
said. 
Meanwhile, sophomore Jenny Chiang and senior Heidi Grossman dominated the diving competition. The duo took first and second, respectively, in the three-meter diving competition Friday with scores of 
307.55 and 306.95. Chiang followed up the impressive showing with a second place finish in the one ­meter, scoring 290. 81 points. Grossman was close behind, finishing in third with a score of 290.20. 
“Chiang is a rockstar, ” Kuhlke said. “I know she and Heidi Grossman always battle it out and come away with good performances.” 
The Irish aren’t going to let their losses to Ohio State and Northwestern discourage them as they head into the championship season. Instead, they say they are looking forward to a possible rematch against these competitors, only this time on a larger stage. 
“Hopefully we’ll see a few 
of them at the NCAA’s, ” Holden said. 
The Irish will take on Ball State in the season’s final home meet Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Victoria Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


Monday, January 31, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
McGraw 
continued from page 20 
that relies a lot on their three-point shooting to just one three in each half … I think that may be the best defense we’ve ever played against them.” 
Seniors Becca Bruszewski and Devereaux Peters guid­ed the Irish defense, which has played an increasingly important 
grabbed four steals. 
“[The defense] came through very well, and I was happy with the three-point defense, in particular,” McGraw said. “That was something we worked on all week leading into the Villanova game, and everybody did a great job guarding the three -point line.” 
Peters shone again on offense with a team-high 20 points. Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins added 13 and junior guard Natalie Novosel chipped in 11. Bruszewski had 10. 
McGraw said she is impressed with Peters’ con­tinued strong performance. 
“I thought [Peters] was magnificent at Villanova and really had an All-America type of game. She played well and was consistent at both ends of floor,” Muffet said. “She also is in great shape and never looked tired, even though she was part of the press for most of the game. She’s been play­ing really well for us and she just continues to surpass my expectations.” 

Laura Sweeney had 14 points for Villanova, which has now suffered four-straight losses. 
Despite Peters’ 20-point game, Notre Dame’s mere 58 points was a season-low finish for the Irish, their 
role in the “I thought [Peters] was team’s suc ­
magnificent at
cess this sea-

Villanova and really 
son. Bruszewski had an All-America had a team ­
type of game.” 
high 10 rebounds, and Peters Muffet McGraw nine, as each Irish coach 
now done so 10 times this sea­son, including four of their fewest since losing 59 -44 to top-ranked Connecticut 
on March 8, 2010, in last season’s Big East Semifinals . 
H o l d i n g  i t s  
o p p o n e n t  t o  
l e s s  t h a n  5 0  

points was nothing new, however, as the team has 
“At the same time, it

first Big East came out opponents. was a great challenge flat,” she 
Villanova took said. “It will 
for us to see how we 

a five -point be good to 
would respond to

lead early in get right the first half, adversity on the back to but Notre Dame game mode 
road.” 

quickly brought with prac ­the advantage, tice Monday 
Muffet McGraw 

bringing the and then game to 32-20 Irish coach playing 
team allowing Villanova to close in on their lead, how­ever slight it was. “At the same time, it was a great challenge for us to see how we would respond to adver­sity on the road. Devereaux [Peters] made some big shots, Natalie [Novosel] and Skylar [Diggins] made some key free throws and Becca [Bruszewski] and [senior] Brittany [Mallory] each made a huge defensive stop at the end of the game, get­ting some critical steals to help us close it out.” 
The Irish are back in action at the Purcell Pavilion Tuesday against Syracuse (16-4, 4-3 Big East). 
McGraw is looking forward to getting her team back on their home court and on a more regular game sched­ule, which will begin Tuesday. 
“We really need to get back into a rhythm (of play­ing regularly). We had a 
whole week 
off before Vill anova and then we 

Irish at the half. 
The final numbers don’t reflect the Wildcat’s efforts to over ­come Notre Dame ’s lead heading into the second half, but they were never able to come closer than six. 
“I never thought we would lose, but we did have some opportunities that we let slip by, ” McGraw said of her Syracuse on Tuesday. I think we 
need to get back to playing more and trying to get back into same rhythm we had earlier.” 
Notre Dame will face the Orange Tuesday with a 7 
p.m. tip-off. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


ND MEN’S TRACK 

Notre Dame records seven wins at relays 
By JACK HEFFERNON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continued its strong season this weekend with seven total victories at the Indiana Relays in Bloomington, Ind. 
The Irish showed their depth this weekend in both distance and middle distance events, as well as in field events. Senior Spencer Carter and junior Joe Miller stood out in the distance events as Carter took first in the 5,000­meters and Miller won the 3,000-meter race. The Irish claimed the top-three spots in the 600-meter race as senior Kevin Labus took first and was followed by fifth-year Jack Howard and junior Mitch Lorenz, and sophomore Jeremy Rae took first in the 800-meters. 
Notre Dame’s 3,200-meter relay “B” squad took first while the “A” group came in second. 
Junior Kevin Schipper took first in the pole vault, besting the field with a clearance of 
5.20 meters. Junior Andy Hills also found the top podi­um spot with his 18.12-meter 
Duals 
continued from page 20 
“Our sabre girls set the tone for the weekend when they beat Northwestern’s squad 8-1 and made all the other weapons’ lives much easier,” he said. 
Sabre assistant coach Ian Farr said the Irish took a slightly different approach this weekend. 
“This weekend was more about getting a lot of new kids into competition,” he said. “Many of the starters didn’t fence much at all, so it was a real opportunity for some new faces.” 
Amongst the new faces was Marta Stepien, who finished the day 12-0. Farr said that he was extremely shot put throw. 
“I was pretty happy with my performance,” Hills said. “I’ve been waiting to have a good day for a few weeks now. It was really nice to throw well, and to throw an indoor personal best was especially satisfying.” 
Notre Dame’s depth will be critical as it advances to the end of the indoor season, especially with the annual Meyo Invitational taking place on campus next week­end. The Meyo meet is the last event before the Big East Championships, which the Irish took first in last year. Hills said he is confident his team can pull through once more. 
“We should have some big performances at the Meyo [Invitational], people always go really hard there,” Hills said. “After that, we’ll have Big East Championships, and that’s the one we really want. Hopefully we can repeat.” 
Notre Dame’s Meyo Invitational will begin at 5 
p.m. Friday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Jack Heffernon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Almeida (15-2) and sophomore Abigail Nichols (15-1) led the epee team. 
The men (18-1) also swept through the competition, com­peting Sunday. 
Kvaratskhelia said the most important story for the Irish was the return of Teddy Hodges, who battled back from a heart transplant just over a year ago. Hodges posted a 15-4 mark over the weekend. 
“Teddy is showing great courage and not giving up,” Kvaratskhelia said. “This [was] his coming out party and he [was] fencing phenomenally.” 
Senior epee captain Andy Seroff was pleased with the squad’s performance over the weekend. 
“I think I speak for everyone when I say we are at the top of 
our game,” he 
said. “We get a 
lot of teams 
from this area, 

pleased  with  “This weekend was  and you  never  
the perform-ance from the  more about getting a  know who will throw and  
s o p h o m o r e  lot of new kids into  upset  our way,  
sabreist. “ M a  r  t  a  competition.”  but we held  really our  
stepped in and fenced very well,” he said.  Ian Farr Irish sabre coach  ground this weekend.” S o p h o m o r e  

“She is emerg­ing into some­one who could really make an impact on the team.” 
Kvaratskhelia was also impressed by the performance from senior foilist Haley Reese. 
“Haley was dominant yester­day,” Kvaratskhelia said. “She is getting to the form we expected her to be in for this time of year.” 
Other strong performances from the women include junior Courtney Hurley and senior Ewa Nelip, who both posted 8­0 marks for the weekend. Senior Katie Heinzman (13-1) and freshman Adriana Camacho (11-0) led the Irish foilists, while junior Beatriz Grant Hodges 
(19-1) and jun­
ior Nicholas 
Crebs (20-1) led a strong foil squad for the Irish. 
Eight Irish epeeists posted at least five wins over the week­end, with seniors Brent Kelly and Greg Schoolcraft each posting eight wins and sopho­more Jack Piaso tallying seven. 
The men’s sabre team rested their starters and got a strong performance from freshman Carl Ianario (9-1) in its place. 
The Irish next compete at the Northwestern Duals this week­end. 
Contact Mike Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  62  
63  64  65  
66  67  68  

Monday, January 31, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 38 Loosened, as a 
1 Half of the 57-Down Dynamic Duo 39 Before, 7 331/3, e.g., for a poetically
record: Abbr. 40Eskimo boat 10 Envision 41 Miss ___ USA 13 Stir up 42 1986 Keanu 
14 Prefix with space Reeves film 15 Word after sales 44 Tip of a boot 

or income 46 Gets rigid 16 Second-stringer 47 Car in the 18 One thing ___ Playmates' 1958
hit “Beep Beep” 
time 53 Suffix with 
19 Window 
rational or civil
framework 
54 Someone who 
20 Milan opera 
gives you the 
house La ___ 
willies 21 Rapper ___ 55 Opened one's Wayne eyes in the 22 Compensation in morning bills and coins 59 Place 25 Put a cork in 60 Classic TV intro … or a hint to 
29 Mao ___-tung 

the starts of 16-, 30 “Great taste … 22-, 30-, 42- and less filling!” 47-Across sloganeer 63 Not con 34 Still red, as a 64 “What's ___ for steak me?” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

C  B  S  N  E  W  S  D  E  C  I  M  A  L  
R  A  T  A  T  A  T  E  M  A  N  A  T  E  
O  N  A  D  A  R  E  L  I  L  L  I  A  N  
C  A  T  A  L  I  N  A  I  S  L  A  N  D  
N  O  N  S  O  Y  
D  A  Z  I  N  G  D  O  I  N  J  A  M  
I  V  O  R  Y  A  R  N  O  P  U  R  E  
M  O  N  I  C  A  M  O  U  N  T  A  I  N  S  
L  I  E  S  D  E  M  S  I  N  C  A  S  
Y  D  S  R  U  S  E  S  N  E  E  Z  Y  
A  O  L  D  O  T  
A  N  I  T  A  R  A  C  E  T  R  A  C  K  
A  N  I  M  A  T  E  T  R  E  A  C  L  E  
D  O  N  A  T  E  S  E  N  D  P  L  A  Y  
D  N  A  T  E  S  T  T  O  S  S  U  P  S  

65 Magazinemanager66 Hankering
67 Banned insecticide, forshort 
68 Take down a peg or two 
Down 
1 Nickname for Barbara 2 Environs 3 A lot 4 A lot 5 ___ Wednesday 6 Just off the assembly line 7 Chart again 8 Church dignitary 9 Some eels 10 Like week-old bread 11 Dine at home 12 Glorify
14 Design feature over many a gate
17 Stupidhead22 Prompted23 Easter mo.,
often 24 Fish-tailed males 25 Porn 26 Fork prong27 Merrie ___ 
England
28 Base of a column 31 Hawaiian garland
32 Newspapercolumnist 
Kupcinet33 Golf peg35 Assists 36 Fulminate 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by C.W. Stewart  
37 Barely manages,with “out” 40 Consumer 42 Ram into from behind 43 ___ 1 (Me.-to-Fla. highway)45 Flower often used in a 31­Down 47 A bit cold 48 Sky-blue  49 Place atop 50 Kind of badgefor a Boy Scout 51 Reddish-purplebit in a salad 52 Records turningat 331/3 7­Across 55 Capriciousdesire  56 “Hold ___ yourhat!” 57 Shoelace problem 58 Brontë's “Jane ___” 61 ___ Bartlet,president on “The West Wing” 62 Poem of praise  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLDTUESDAY VAR ETY SHOW LAURA McGINN JUMBLE MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


YADIL  

 
 
 
 
 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 

KRABEM  

 
 
 
 
 
 

RUMAID  

 
 
 
 
 
 




©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.NIXEV 


All Rights Reserved. 
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
PLEASANDV LLE 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
“ ” 
A: A 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: YODEL SUITE RENDER BALLET Saturday’s 
Answer: What the captain gave the sailors — A “TALL” ORDER 







 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, January 31, 2011 page 20 
HOCKEY 
Irish skate to two draws withMiamioverweekend 
By CHRIS ALLEN and ALLAN JOSPEH 
Sports Writers 
No. 9 Notre Dame and No. 13/11 Miami just couldn’t get enough of each other this weekend, with extra time needed in both games of a weekend series at the Joyce Center. The teams battled to a thrilling 5-5 tie Friday night, with the RedHawks (14 -9-5, 11 -7-4-2 CCHA) earning the shootout point. 
Saturday night was a tense 2-2 affair, but the Irish (16­9-5, 13 -6-3-2 CCHA) pre ­vailed in the second shootout in as many days to cap an evenly battled weekend. 
It was a back -and -forth affair Friday night, with the Irish taking 1-0 and 3-2 leads as well as a 2-0 run to close the game, while Miami earned 2-1 and 5-3 leads 
see MIAMI/page 15 
All tied up 


COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer Irish freshman center Anders Lee skates up the ice against Miami (Ohio) Friday. Lee had three assists in Friday’s 5-5 thriller and both Irish goals in Saturday’s 2-2 tie. 
FENCING 
Both teams sweep field at duals 
By MIKE TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Both the Irish men’s and women’s squads survived the Notre Dame Duals unblemished over the weekend, each posting a perfect 8-0 record. 
The women (19-0) competed Saturday, improving their win­ning streak to 78 regular season matches, a new program record. Notre Dame registered victories over Lawrence (25-2), Detroit (27-0), Cleveland State (24-3), Florida (26-1), Air Force (21-6), Swarthmore (22-5), Wayne State (21-6) and seventh-ranked Northwestern (18-9). 
Assistant Coach Gia Kvaratskhelia said the women’s sabre team helped establish Notre Dame’s dominance in the tournament with an early win over highly ranked Northwestern. 
see DUALS/page 17 

MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Senior Eric Lex sets Irish diving record on Senior Day 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

setting a new Irish record while our own beds.” While all of Notre Dame’s vic-of winning individual events 
Sports Writer 

eclipsing the 400-point mark Notre Dame added six victo-tories for the weekend came and meets and placed an for the first time in program ries to Lex’s first place finish. from individual performances, emphasis instead on improving 
The Irish celebrated Senior history. Freshman Frank Dyer contin-the team’s relays performed for the post season, especially Day at home Saturday, defeat-Lex and his classmates were ued a successful rookie season, well in a series of close calls the upcoming Big East tourna­ing Denver 250-118 but falling excited not only at Lex’s new winning both the 200-yard and and season-best times. ment. to Iowa 194-174 in the record but also to swim in the the 100-yard freestyles. Seniors “I thought all of our relays “I think this meet put us in a Shamrock Invitational, allowing comforts of their home pool a Michael Sullivan and Raycroft did exceptionally well this great position for Big Easts,” Notre Dame (6-4) to split the final time. also recorded first-place times weekend,” Raycroft said. “I Raycroft said. “We had a lot of dual meet competition. “It’s always nice to compete in the 400-yard individual med-think all five relays had either solid swims this weekend, and 
The weekend’s biggest high-at our home pool, especially ley and 200-yard breaststroke, season best or close to season everything seems to be pointing light was senior diver Eric Lex’s after a lot of traveling in the respectively. Junior Petar best times, which is great for in the right direction for the record-setting performance recent weeks,” senior swimmer Petrovic took first in the 100-this time of year.” championship season.” from the 3-meter board. In the Joseph Raycroft said. “We're yard backstroke, as did The Irish team, following the final home event of his career, definitely more comfortable Christopher Johnson in the lead of Irish coach Tim Welsh, Contact Joseph Monardo Lex dove to a score of 405.5, here and it's great to sleep in 100-yard breaststroke. has downplayed the importance jmonardo@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Team earns win at Villanova 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
No. 9 Notre Dame topped another opponent Saturday night, defeating Villanova 58-43 on the road in a match that was not as easy as the final score makes it seem. 
But Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she was pleased with Notre Dame’s (18-4, 7-1 Big East) perform­ance, especially its defense. 
“I was really thrilled with the win. We knew it was going to be one of those games where we would score below our average,” McGraw said. “I thought we would score in 60s, but I was really pleased with our defense. To hold a team like Villanova 
see MCGRAW/page 17 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame drops first match of season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN and 
MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writers 

The No. 4 Irish went 1-1 at the ITA National Team Indoor qualify­ing tournament this weekend as they swept Yale 7-0 Saturday but fell 4-3 to No. 23 Arkansas Sunday in the championship round at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Sunday’s loss was the team’s first loss of the season. 
“We’re all definitely really bummed about the loss. I think that we all have a lot to take from the matches both team-wise and individually, and I think we’re all really working on moving for­ward,” junior Kristy Frilling said. 
After easily winning both the doubles and singles points Saturday, where the team two of the three doubles competitions and all six singles matches, Notre Dame was faced with a much stronger opponent in Arkansas and fell behind early, losing the doubles point. 
The first sign of defeat came when the No. 1 doubles pair of Frilling and junior Shannon Mathews struggled against the Razorback duo of Claudine Paulson and Anouk Tigu, losing 8­
2. Notre Dame’s No. 2 doubles pair, senior Kristen Rafael and freshman Julie Sabacinski, was unable to defeat Arkansas’s Jade Frampton and Valentina Starkova, falling 7-4 after taking a 4-1 lead 
see RAFAEL/page 15 






