
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Waste-Free Wednesdays promote sustainability 
Campus groups encourage students to waste less food through weekly ‘Clean Plate Club’ at dining halls 


By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
In September, Notre Dame stu­dents wasted an average of 4.63 ounces of food after each meal in the dining hall, said William Yar­brough, associate director in the Food Services Administration. 
“If 4,000 students eat a meal, that’s 1,157 pounds of food and beverage wasted for that meal,” Yarbrough said. 
In an effort to combat food and liquid waste at the Univer­sity, GreeND, Food Services and the Office of Sustainability part­nered together this year to spon­sor Waste-Free Wednesdays, a weekly event in the month of November that asks students to think about the food they throw out. 
Senior Elizabeth Davis, chair of the sustainability project, said Waste-Free Wednesdays will 


Community celebrates Día de los Muertos 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and South Bend community members commem­orated the lives of deceased loved ones at a Día de los Muer­tos celebration Tuesday eve­ning in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The event featured perfor­mances by student groups Ma­riachi ND, Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro and Coro Primavera de Nuestra Señora. It was spon­sored by the Institute for Latino Studies, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Snite Museum of Art. 
In Mexican tradition, Nov. 1 is the one day each year when the souls of the dead return to the mortal world, said sopho­more Briana Cortez, who per­formed with Mariachi ND and Coro Primavera. 
“It’s the one day where you can spend time with your fam­ily and friends that have passed on to the next life,” she said. “Instead of it being eerie, the way Halloween is portrayed, 

see MUERTOS/page 5 
take place in the dining halls from 6 to 7 p.m. every week in November. 
“The goal of Waste-Free Wednesdays is twofold,” Davis said. “One: to reduce the amount of fluid and food waste. Two: To raise awareness and have people feel empowered for not wasting.” 
The project began last year when Davis was on the Student Energy Advisory Board. She worked with ND Food Services, the eND Hunger Campaign, stu­dent government, GreeND, the Holy Cross Food Drive and the Office of Sustainability to create the project. 
“By the end, the results showed that we cut food waste in half and raised enough money to provide 6,300 meals in the South Bend community,” Davis said. “It really emphasized the season of giv­


see WASTE/page 5 
Film producer discusses mini-series 





SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
Film producer Lisa Chaundry, center, describes the process of making the PBS documentary mini­series, “Women, War and Peace.” The mini-series relates the stories of women involved in warfare. 
By ANNA BORINI 
News Writer 
Part four of the five part documentary mini-series, ti­tled “Women, War and Peace,” aired Tuesday on PBS. The se­ries, which focuses on women’s roles in warfare, was produced in part by Nina Chaundry, who spoke on a panel Tuesday about the documentaries. 
“The creators of the series, Pamela Hogan, Abigail Disney and Gini Reticker, first met about the project in the fall of 2007,” Chaundry said.  “They had each individually noticed a similar trend in reporting: a focus on the men and the guns and a dearth of stories about the women and families who are disproportionately targeted in today’s conflict zones — but seldom covered in news re­ports.” 
Chaundry said the idea for the film series was born after this conversation. 
“Disproportionate attention has been paid to men in conflict, and we hope that this series is the beginning of a dialogue and that more films and more reporting will look at conflict through women’s eyes,” she said. 
When choosing the stories to tell in the documentary, she said the producers and film­makers wanted to give under­reported stories the attention they deserve. 
“Deciding which conflicts to cover was one of the most diffi­cult decisions we had to make,” she said. “We researched sto­ries around the world, including Asia, Central America, Chech­nya, Georgia, Israel and Pales­tine, Northern Ireland, Congo, Sudan, Guinea as well as the stories in Bosnia, Colombia and Afghanistan.” 
After all their research was collected, the filmmakers de­cided to tell the story of how war had changed in the last 20 years since the end of the Cold War, Chaundry said. 
“Since the end of the Cold 
see COLD WAR/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Group votes on allocations page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Interview with William Mapother page 8 u Kelly looks to extend streak page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, November 2, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR STRANGEST TALENT? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Sam Gans Mel Flanagan Jack Hefferon Jillian Barwick Conor Kelly Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 63 LOW 46 


Emily Ehrman  Brandon West  Meredith Angell  Norah Robinson  CJ Kelly  Danny Jackson  
junior Badin  sophomore Fisher  junior Pangborn  freshman Lewis  senior Duncan  senior Dillion  
“I can ride a unicycle!”  “I can make dolphin noises.”  “I can whistle with my hands.”  “I can recognize cars by their headlights.”  “My ability to eat three pounds of gummy bears in one sitting.”  “I have an amazing voice. People say it’s a mix of Fergie and Jesus.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Sailor saved by mobile call after falling off boat 
AJACCIO, Corsica — French sailing star Flor­ence Arthaud fell off her boat during a pee break but rescuers whisked her from Mediterranean waters in the early hours of Sunday after she called her mother by mobile phone. 
Arthaud, winner in 1990 of the Route du Rhum sin­gle-handed transatlantic sailing race, was located and rescued near the island of Corsica thanks to a head­lamp and the GPS system on her phone. 
“I quite simply fell into the water while preparing to take a pee,” the 54-year-old told BFM television. 
Arthaud, alone on her 10-meter boat when she fell overboard, managed to hold her phone, protected by a plastic bag, above water and call her mother to raise the alarm. 
Cold cash given to woman instead of cold cuts 
BERLIN — A butcher shop employee in the German town of Braunschweig inad­vertently handed a custom­er a bag containing more than 2,000 euros ($2,835) in cold cash rather than the cold cuts she usually gets. 
The 79-year-old pensioner paid five euros for her pack­age of cold cuts and veal steaks. She said she was surprised to find more than she bargained for when she opened the package at home. 
She called the butcher shop but it had already closed. So she called the po­lice, who later returned it. 
The owner of the butcher shop had packed the day’s take in a paper bag and placed it, as he usually does, next to the cash register. The employee mistook it for the customer’s cold cuts and unwittingly handed her the package. 
The honest pensioner got a 100 euro reward from the butcher and a free basket of sausages. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Today till Friday, Nov. 4, there is an open-enrollment program titled, “Unleashing Your Leadership Potential,” offered by Executive Edu­cation, Mendoza College of Business. This program is for emerging leaders with 5 or more years of work experi­ence who wish to accelerate their transition to a greater leadership role. This event will take place in Giovanni Commons in the lower level of Mendoza College of Busi­ness. Application and accep­tance required. 
The blood drive continues today from 11 a.m. to 5:30 
p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Rec­reation Center. Register for a donation time online or by calling RecSports. 
This evening from 5 to 7 p.m., there is a lecture titled, “Nightwatch: Time, Emer­gency, and the French Revo­lution.” Marie-Helene Huet, from Princeton University, will be giving the lecture, with an introduction by Pro­fessor Julia Douthwaite. The event will take place in Room 112 in McKenna Hall. A re­ception will follow. 
Tonight from 6:30 to 7:30 
p.m. there will be an infor­mation session on the Catho­lic Social Traditions (CST) Minor in 234 Geddes Hall. Stop by the information ses­sion to learn more about the CST Minor. 
Watch the Women’s Bas­ketball team take on Wind­sor tonight at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 








HIGH 51 LOW 33 
HIGH 56 LOW 35 
HIGH 57 LOW 39 

Wednesday, November 2, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group votes on club allocations 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) met Tuesday to discuss budget 
allocations for clubs  on  cam­ 
pus,  including  two  appeals  
from campus clubs.  

Both the Biology Club and the Social Work Club appealed the allotments received from SGA. Every club on campus is given the option to appeal its allot­ment and bring the issue to one of the SGA meetings. 
Clubs can only appeal a de­cision “if a procedural error has been made by the finance committee,” according to SGA finance committee bylaws. 
After hearing the appeals, SGA members discussed as a group whether or not to grant appeals for both of the organi­zations. Many questions came up during the discussion. 

“What exactly is a sponsor­ship?” senior class vice presi­dent Noelle Radko asked. “I’m not sure exactly what it is, and I know there may be some confu­sion about that among different clubs.” 
Student body president Nicole Gans explained that sponsor­ships, according to the finance bylaws, “serve to cover recog­nized clubs and organizations’ expenses that are campus-wide events or travel-related.” 
“It is important for all of you and any club on campus to come to see me if you have questions. I’m always in the SGA office,” SGA Executive Treasurer Liz Busam said. “If anyone is ever unclear on anything concern­ing allotments or finances, you can ask.” 
SGA Executive Secretary Emma Brink echoed Busam’s offer. 
“If you hear of any clubs having lingering questions, you can tell them to visit the SGA office and we can explain things to them there,” Brink said. 
According to the bylaws of the SGA finance committee, the purpose of allotments is “to fund the ‘material’ expenses of the club,” including “equip­ment and material for regular operations.” SGA give student clubs the option of applying for sponsorship from SGA for oth­er expenses.
 SGA concluded its meeting by voting on the appeals.
 “I’m really proud of everyone for being able to make a deci­sion on allotments,” Gans said. “We were able to work through things pretty fast, so I’m happy that we were able to get all of our allotments finished.” 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 
Sorin Scholars engage in research, discussion 




By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
In the group’s second year on campus, the Sorin Scholars con­tinue to “act as catalysts” for un­dergraduate research and intel­lectual discussion outside of the classroom, said Philippe Collon, associate director of the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly En­gagement (CUSE) and the group’s faculty mentor. 
The Sorin Scholars, comprised of about 30 students per class, is the only University-wide honors program, Collon said. Students are chosen by recommendations from faculty advisors and teach­ers after their freshman year. 
Collon said the group, spon­sored by CUSE, formed last year to carry on University founder Fr. Edward Sorin’s legacy of aca­demic leadership. 
“We call them the Sorin Schol­ars [so] they would act as cata­lysts for all the other students at the University, like Fr. Sorin, who not only managed to create the University but was a really strong catalyst for getting things started and getting things off the ground,” Collon said. “We wanted these students to have Fr. Sorin as their exam­ple as being the 
real catalyst to “We call them the Sorin due University get students to Scholars [so] they would Indianapolis think early on act as catalysts for all last summer about scholarly and continue 
the other students at the 
engagement, research on 
University, like Fr. Sorin, 
undergradu-campus this 
who not only managed 
ate research fall. 
to create the University 
and making Kramer said 
but was a really strong 
the most out the benefits of their four catalyst for getting things he has gained years at Notre started and getting through the Dame.” things off the ground.” program will 
The objective help him dis-of the group is cern what to 
Philippe Collon 
to provide op-do after col-
director 
portunities for lege. 
Center for Undergraduate 
the students “I’m hoping involved to Scholarly Engagement to go to med 
CUSE also sponsors many other activities, such as monthly cof­fee house discussions, trips to see plays, ice cream socials and edu­cational workshops.
 “It is up to the students to de­fine what they want to do and how they want that research to be as fruitful as possible,” he said. 
Junior Michael Fronk said par­ticipating in these activities as a Sorin Scholar allows him to en­gage in intellectual dialogue out­side of the classroom. 
“It’s been really helpful and insightful in sparking engaging thinking,” Fronk said. 
Fronk, who is on the steering committee for the group, said the research opportunity he gained through Sorin Scholars was in­valuable. 
As an English and mathemat­ics major, Fronk said he received $3,000 to spend the summer in London studying Anglo-Caribbe­an culture and literature. 
“I made the connections that helped me to get the $3,000 grant to go abroad over the summer,” Fronk said. 
Junior chemistry major Patrick Kramer said he used his connec­tions through Sorin Scholars to perform chemistry research at Indiana Uni­versity Pur­
further sup­plement their academics through thought-pro­voking discussion and research, Collon said. 
“We want this to be an addi­tional opportunity for students to have mentors, to have a place to meet and to have opportunities to discuss and to grow, then, to become ambassadors of under­graduate research here on cam­pus,” he said. 
To accomplish these goals, CUSE chooses students from all colleges to participate in the group, provides a lounge for them and helps them coordinate research projects, Collon said. 
school eventu­
ally, but I don’t know if I want to combine that with clinical research,” Kramer said. “[Sorin Scholars] gave me a window to explore that opportu­nity and also to look at post-grad­uate opportunities involved with research.” 
Kramer said meeting new peo­ple through the group was just as beneficial as making important connections. 
“It’s a good group of people to collaborate with on different ideas,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, November 2, 2011 
SMC students sell popcorn for class 
Group participates in NaNoWriMo 



By JILL BARWICK 
News Writer 
While selling gourmet pop­corn may sound like an easy task to accomplish, the stu­dents of the Sales Management and Professional Selling course at Saint Mary’s College learned differently in a national colle­giate competition held during fall break. 
Robert Williams, assistant professor of Business and Eco­nomics at Saint Mary’s, said he wanted to gear the coursework for this semester toward real life experiences of profession­al selling, especially after he learned about this competition. 
“When I started preparing for this course, I looked around online to see if there was any­thing interesting ways to pro­fessionally sell,” Williams said. “I came across the National Team Selling Competition, which is held 
Students were given the first part of the contest a week be­fore the competition was to be held, which included the case material the team needed to start planning how they would sell their product. This is when they learned that their goal was to introduce a private-label popcorn line into their mock stores. 
“After receiving the case ma­terial, our class broke down into groups based on their in­dividual strengths using ap­proaches to sampling, packag­ing and social media plans for the product,” Kellogg said. 
Once at the competition, the teams met with mock buyers. The students then had to align their presentations to fit their buyers’ needs. 
Having about four hours to complete this task, the teams then presented their ideas for selling the pri­vate-label pop­corn and were 

at Indiana judged by sales 
“After receiving the 
University executives from 
case material, our 
in Bloom-Altria Group 
class broke down into 
ington, and Distribution 
groups based on their 
decided that, Company. 
individual strengths 
even though “I think, con-it was short using approaches to sidering the notice, the sampling, packaging time frame we course and social media plans had, it was a would be for the product.” very reward-designed to-ing experience ward com-for my students 
Kate Kellogg 
peting in to have par-
junior 
this competi-ticipated in this 
tion.” 
Williams said he knew the biggest challenge would be preparing in a short amount of time, because the competition took place over fall break. His class would also be competing against schools that have entire divisions on selling. 
“Even though I knew it was a short period of time to prepare, being close to where the com­petition was being held defi­nitely helped me decide to have my class participate,” Williams said. 
Kate Kellogg, a junior at Saint Mary’s and member of the team, knew that this would be a great learning experience for herself as an individual, as well as a good team building experi­ence. 
“It was hectic at times, try­ing to prepare material about a real-life selling situation, but it was definitely a great learning experience,” Kellogg said. 
competition,” 
Williams said. 
“They were em­phatic about my classes partici­pating in next year’s competi­tion.” 
Williams said after compet­ing this year, he and his stu­dents now know they must pick out the more important infor­mation given rather than what they think the judges will want to see. 
Though they did not place in the winners of the competition, some students said they look forward to next year. 
“I would definitely like to participate again next year in the competition,” Kellogg said. “Since it is mostly seniors in the class, it will be a good op­portunity for next year’s class to know what happens at the competition from a past partici­pant.” 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Every November, writers across the country put pen to paper in hopes of reaching 50,000 words during National Novel Writing Month (NaNoW­riMo). 
Second-year MFA student Betsy Cornwell is leading as­piring Notre Dame novelists in an on-campus writing group. 
Cornwell first participated in NaNoWriMo in 2008 when she was a junior undergraduate. 
“The draft I wrote in 2008, I am just now getting a book deal on,” she said. “Two publishing houses are actually bidding on it. This year, I’m doing a steam punk version of Cinderella and actually the publishing houses have offered preemptively on this one as well.” 
Cornwell’s book that is cur­rently being bid on is a young adult magical realism book, called “Tides.” 
“I was working at a teen magazine at the time, and we got all these letters about how they either hated things like Twilight or they liked it, but wanted to make it more liter­ary,” she said. “I said, ‘You know what, I agree, I’m going to try to do that.’” 
Cornwell teaches a fiction-writing course and has en­couraged her students to par­ticipate. Of her 15 students, 10 have chosen to write 50,000 words this November instead of turning in a final portfolio of all their work. 
“I really encourage people to do it, because you write this messy bad draft, and then you revise it,” she said. 
Cornwell said she believes people who have never written a novel or have no idea how to approach fiction writing benefit the most from NaNoWriMo. 


“People who think this is a big impossible thing, because it really is about plunging in without knowing what you’re doing and forcing yourself to do it,” she said. 
One of Cornwell’s students, senior Darsie Malynn decided to attempt the 50,000 word challenge. 
“I am attempting to do NaNoWriMo because it seems like a cool, challenging and re­warding project,” Malynn said. “Also if we do it, we are not re­quired to turn in a final portfo­lio for our class, so it’s hopefully not a completely unmanageable amount of writing.” 
Malynn is not the only stu­dent participating this month. Junior Leah Coming, the presi­dent of Notre Dame’s creative writing club, Mustard, is par­ticipating in her own way. 
“Mustard traditionally has done a couple write-ins during NaNoWriMo, but usually mem­bers do it on his or her own,” she said. 
Coming said she uses her ca­pacity as president of Mustard to help spread the word about more structured write-ins led by Cornwell in the University Writing Center. When Coming is not helping Cornwell get the word out about NaNoWriMo, she will also take part. 
“I’m doing pansy NaNo,” she said. ”I’m only doing 15,000 words [this November].” 
Coming said she decided to do a smaller word count be­cause she is already work­ing on a large project that she has chosen to extend during NaNoWriMo. 
“Usually when people do a NaNo, they come up with a crazy new plot, the plot twists and turns and they write total nonsense to get to the word count,” Coming said. “I figured if I reduced it, I would not be writing total nonsense to get the count.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, November 2, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Council discusses ND gameday music 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Following Saturday’s modi­fied canned, or recorded, music usage during the football game, the Council of Representatives focused its Tuesday meeting on reviewing student feedback and debating changes. 
Student body president Pat McCormick outlined what he perceived to be the general con­sensus on campus. 
“For those who follow the viewpoints and general con­versation, there seem to be two general views,” McCormick said. “One, that this is part of a longer trajectory that will put us in a place to modernize the Notre Dame football experi­ence while maintaining tradi­tion; and another that says we should prioritize tradition and continue to make that a princi­pal focus.” 
McCormick said student gov­ernment could help find a com­promise between the diverging perspectives. 
“It looks like we may take a more assertive role in offer­ing feedback to Gameday Op­erations,” he said. “There’s a huge opportunity to find mid­dle ground here ... How do we maintain tradition while creat­ing the best, competitive envi­ronment for our team?” 
At last week’s meeting, rep­resentatives discussed the im­plications of the canned music on the band members. First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership (FUEL) director Ricky Bevington outlined the results of a survey sent to the band. 
“It appeared that they kind of had a mixed review on the situation just like the rest of the student body,” Bevington said. “The important thing to the band is that, because they’re part of the gameday experi­ence, they should be part of the discussion. We need to make sure the gameday experience is more than just an athletic thing, that it considers a lot of students on campus.” 

Sophomore class president Nicholas Schilling offered some of the opinions he had person­ally gathered from band mem­bers. 
“One guy said he doesn’t want to get out there and bust his butt every night for a week just to have AC/DC play over him,” he said. “The other re­curring theme was the concern that when you start [changing gameday music traditions], where and how do you stop?” 
Junior class president Kevin Doherty said the band was not the only group on the field af­fected by the music. 
“I noticed that when the canned music was playing, the players got more excited ... I don’t see that as much with just the band on the field,” he said. “If we’re talking about interest groups to look at, I think play­ers on the field are important.” 
McCormick said Doherty’s observation was evident in player interviews. 
“Player excitement is support­ed by post-game interviews,” he said. “They commented that the atmosphere was much more electric and the canned music seemed to contribute to that.” 
Schilling argued for tradition over modernization. 
“I guess I’m more of a pur­ist in that I’m going to take the band over Guns ‘n Roses or AC/ DC any day,” he said. “The band is what makes Notre Dame dif­ferent.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Waste 
continued from page 1 
ing.” 
Yarbrough said this year GreeND, Food Services and the Office of Sustainability have been key supporters of the project. 
“Food Services provides nec­essary funding for marketing materials, the Office of Sustain­ability provides T-shirts and sup­port through a student intern — Elizabeth Davis — on their staff and GreeND provides volunteers to work with diners and measure the food and beverage,” he said. 
Davis said two volunteers sta­tioned at the dish line will give students raffle tickets if they do not have food or liquid waste on their trays. These students, members of the “Clean Plate Club,” can then enter the tickets into a box at the front of the din­ing hall for the chance to win 100 flex points, courtesy of Food Ser­vices. 
Weigh-ins will measure the de-
Cold War 
continued from page 1 
War, it has become more danger­ous to be a woman in a conflict zone than a soldier,” she said. 
The filmmakers wanted to make sure to demonstrate this was a global occurrence, Chaun­dry said. They did this by com­mitting to covering as many re­gions of the world as they could. 
The films focused on four countries, with a final piece ty­ing all the themes together and discussing how war has changed in a post-Cold War world. 
“I Came to Testify,” the first ep­isode of the mini-series, told the story of how 16 Bosnian women testified against their rapists in international court. 
“We decided on Bosnia, be­cause it was the first time that women were successful in get­ting rape prosecuted as a war crime, setting a major precedent in international law which is now being used globally,” Chaundry said. 
She said the process of finding and interviewing the women for “I Came to Testify” was a very delicate process. 
“Filmmaker Pamela Hogan and her associate producer Jes­sie Beauchaine initially reached out to the investigators and prosecutors that the women had trusted from The Hague,” Chaundry said. “When Hogan and Beauchaine first met the women, they then had to gain their trust, which was no easy task.” 
The women did not particular­ly want to talk to journalists and even suffered from headaches and other physical ills because telling their story is so trauma­tizing, Chaundry said. 
Chaundry said building rela­tionships with these women was difficult, but a journalist’s emo­tions can help build trust and rapport. 
“As journalists we are charged with being objective storytell­ers, but it’s impossible to check your emotions, especially when you are covering such intimate stories,” she said. “In fact, I find it’s important to allow yourself to have the emotions. It’s essential for building trust and rapport with the people you are filming.” 
The second week’s episode, “Pray the Devil Back to Hell,” was a film already made by Abi­gail Disney. 
“We already knew that the se­ries would include ‘Pray the Dev­il Back to Hell,’ the story of the women who came together and brought an end to the civil war in Liberia,” Chaundry said. 
Week three’s episode, “Peace Unveiled,” focused on Afghani­stan, where the filmmakers tell the story of female activists. 
“We felt obligated as Ameri­cans to tell the story of women in a conflict in which we were di­rectly involved,” she said. 
Filming in Afghanistan posed some very real security prob­lems, especially in the Kandahar region when interviewing wom­en’s rights activist Shahida Hus­sein, Chaundry said. 
“We exercised extreme caution in that case and respected the wishes of the activist Shahida Hussein,” she said. “At one point in the filming, she asked that she be filmed by an Afghan male who could then appear to others as a male relative and would then not draw too much attention to her or her family. At another time, dents to volunteer or suggest new ideas. 
“Volunteers get a shirt that says ‘wasted’ on the front. It’s a hilarious reward for only an hour’s volunteer work,” she said. “On the back it says ‘Waste-Free Wednesdays.’” 
Waste-Free Wednesdays worked in a positive way to change habits, she said. 
“You don’t want to guilt trip people,” Davis said. “You want to empower them not to waste. Whether you waste or not, you can work not to the next time.” 
Yarbrough said Waste-Free Wednesdays answered a social responsibility. 
“There are too many people in the U.S. and other parts of the world that are hungry. We sup­port the Hope Rescue Mission and the Center for the Homeless with leftover food from the meals we serve,” he said. “However, the foods that diners return on their trays is lost.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
she wanted a woman to film with her and we even experimented filming from behind the burqa!” 
While there were specific threats against the activists in Afghanistan, safety was a con­cern almost everywhere the mini-series was filmed, Chaun­dry said. 
“Threats were already a part of the daily lives of several of the women we feature in the series and I’m not sure if the threats in­tensified as a result of our film­ing, but we were aware through­out production — and even now 
— that it was a possibility,” she said. “The courage these women have shown in their lives and in sharing their stories with us is a responsibility that the entire team feels and one that we take very seriously.” 
The fourth episode in the se­ries, “The War We are Living,” focuses on a conflict in Colom­bia, which has displaced more people than any other place in the world, other than the Sudan, Chaundry said. 
“In Colombia, as in the rest of the world, the majority of the internally displaced people are women and their dependents,” she said. 
Throughout the filming pro­cess, the filmmakers wanted to make sure the women were not just portrayed as victims, Chaundry said. In many cases women are usually seen as such, and their work towards peace is undermined. 
“All of these women are taking personal risks, risks that jeop­ardize not only themselves but also their children and extended families,” she said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Muertos 
continued from page 1 
it’s more of a celebratory holi­day.” 
During Día de los Muertos celebrations, people create ofrendas, or altars, to honor the dead, Cortez said. 
“One thing everybody does is have ofrendas, which consists of putting food and flowers on the gravestones of your loved ones and in your home, so when the spirits come back to visit you they can eat [and] see the different images,” Cortez said. 
The Día de los Muertos cele­bration featured an ofrenda by internationally known Mexican crease in waste over the course of Waste-Free Wednesdays, Da­vis said. 
Yarbrough said food waste usually started off high in the fall and decreased as more edu­cation on waste was provided to students. 
“This year it started lower than last year at 4.63 ounces per diner, and I think this can be at­tributed to the work done by our volunteer students last year,” he said. “We started last year at 
6.27 ounces per diner and by the end of the year we were down to 
3.11 ounces.” 
Davis said the team working on Waste-Free Wednesdays planned to hold a Waste-Free Week in spring as well. She said she hoped the program would expand. 
“Future events could include a competition between different schools, or even just North and South to see who could waste less,” she said. “I think South would have to work hard because they’ve tended to waste more in the past.” 
Davis said she encouraged stu­
artist Ana Teresa Fernandez. The ofrenda included orange and yellow marigolds and small models of human skulls and bones. 
Fernandez also covered four ladders in black feathers and arranged them in a diamond shape in the Hesburgh Center to signify transportation be­tween the worlds of the living and the dead. 
“I wanted to play with the space and create almost an in­finity sign where you don’t know whether it’s going up or down,” Fernandez said at the celebra­tion. “Heaven’s supposed to be an allegorical space, but we get put under the ground [when we die].” 
The ladders symbolized the dead’s ability to lift themselves from the ground into heaven, Fernandez said. 
“I was taking the more utili­tarian ladders as a way for them to climb up and down and be able to wear wings and trans­port themselves,” she said. 
Cortez said the Día de los Muertos celebration included traditional Mexican elements, such as bread that is usually placed on ofrendas for the dead, as well as candles meant to ward off evil spirits. 
Fernandez’s ofrenda will be on display in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center through Thursday. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 2, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

NBA players overseas 
Looks like Kobe Bryant won’t be wear­ing the Laker purple and gold at all this year. No, he didn’t get traded, but the increasing hostilities between NBA own­ers and the Players Association is mak-Joe Wirth ing it more and more likely there will be no Sports Writer season this year. 
So, where will they play? 

Wherever the money is, and right now, the cash is overseas. 
Money is the only reason NBA stars are considering playing internationally. 
What once was reserved for collegiate players who could not make NBA rosters, Europe and other international locations have become attractive to elite stars because of lucrative contracts available. Many of the international teams are owned by wealthy companies and busi­ness owners who are more than willing to open their wallets to attract American talent. 
Yes, stars like Kevin Durant, Deron Williams and Dwight Howard will be paid handsomely and will, without a doubt, excel against inferior talent, but the cultural adjustment will be more than any paycheck can compensate for. 
NBA players are used to a cushy life­style. They play in beautiful arenas, stay at five-star hotels and travel from city to city on private jets. They live the good life. This, however, would not be the case if they play overseas. 
In international leagues, players will stay at flea-bitten motels and play in dark, 8,000-seat arenas with limited se­curity. In addition, they will play in front of certain anti-Jewish and anti-American audiences, especially in Turkey (where Williams plans to play). 
In an interview with ESPN’s Rick Reilly, former UCLA star Josh Shipp, who now plays for Galatasaray in the Turkish Basketball League, gave an account of his experience overseas. 
“I made a winning shot on the road one night,” said Shipp, “And next thing you know, I was getting pelted with batteries, cell phones, you name it. I had to run for it. But that’s nothing. I played with a guy who said they won a game on their rival’s court once and the whole crowd rushed the court. They had to punch people just to get into the locker room.” 
Kobe, has that ever happened to you after a buzzer-beater in Madison Square Garden? 
There is another story of Jimmy Baron, a former player at the University of Rhode Island who also plays in Turkey. He said in order to stop the team’s losing streak his Turkish coach superstitiously chopped off a goat’s head in the locker room. 
I do not think that is a part of Phil Jackson’s Zen coaching technique. 
Players like Bryant and Howard are grown men who can handle some of the distraction, but can you see them playing in Italy, in the equivalent of an American high school gym? 
How much money does it take to buy happiness? 
I understand the players want to play, but here is a message to those who are considering playing overseas: Try and negotiate with the owners instead of your travel agent. 
Contact Joe Wirth at       jwirth@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A persevering peace 
Recently I was fortunate to hear AFL­CIO president Richard Trumka give his analogy for any social movement: a dummy that is hit by a linebacker during practice. When the dummy is first hit, it recoils, pushing the line­backer back; how­ever, as the line­backer continues to push, he feels the dummy start to slide forward, and the harder he pushes, the faster and easier it begins to slide. Any social movement, Trumka meant, takes per­severance no matter how hard the sur­rounding forces cause it to recoil. 
In 2008, the peace sign — the symbol of the Peace Movement — turned 50. Only three years later in 2011, a prod­uct of that movement also turned 50: the Peace Corps. Notre Dame professor Gerard Rice termed it “the Bold Experi­ment,” and after 50 years, the Peace Corps is continuing to grow. Officially established March 1, 1961, by President John F. Kennedy, the Peace Corps has served in 139 countries, with more than 200,000 volunteers. In 2009, the number of applicants grew 18 percent from the number of applicants in 2008. The age group of volunteers over 55 is growing because of the desire of volun­teers to use their specialties in order to help a community. 
The requirements of Peace Corps vol­unteers are not easy. For entry into the Peace Corps volunteers must “prepare [themselves] … to make a commitment to serve abroad for a full term of 27 months” and “serve where the Peace Corps asks [them] to go, under condi­tions of hardship, if necessary, and 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
with the flexibility needed for effec­tive service.” For 50 years, the Peace Corps has been committed to develop­ing sustainable peace in a developing world. Professor George Lopez, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Chair in Peace Studies at Notre Dame, says that three things that the Peace Corps and its volunteers do extremely well in order to create real linkages to a sustainable peace are listening to the community needs rather than applying a deductive framework to a commu­nity whose needs differ from what the framework provides, focusing on creat­ing projects that can be sustained by the local people and creating an ethos that facilitates projects being passed on from village to village, area to area. 
Lopez says that Peace Corps vol­unteers display the great American values, “the importance of individuals making a difference and loyalty to the values of freedom and justice.” The Peace Corps reflects the characteris­tics that are possible for America as a whole to espouse. President Obama stated in his Anniversary proclamation the Peace Corps “remains an enduring symbol of our Nation’s commitment to encouraging progress, creating oppor­tunity and fostering mutual respect and understanding throughout the world.” 
These activities to which Peace Corps volunteers dedicate their time demon­strate heroism — heroism to represent America through one’s every action, heroism to fully integrate into a new and unique culture, heroism to take responsibility for not only his or herself, but also for the entire community in which the volunteer lives and heroism to give selflessly. By acknowledging fully the characteristics of courage, loyalty and heroism to the brave men and women who serve the United States of America through the Peace Corps, we begin to redefine the values of our society, not in action, but in deed. The Peace Corps volunteers represent the values we want other nations to see in America and we want to see in our own nation. 
The perseverance of the Peace Corps can be seen in part of the name itself: peace. The fact that “peace” stands to define the name of one of America’s greatest institutions is an enormous victory. Many in the early years of the Peace Corps’ existence did not view the word kindly. Sargent Shriver, the first Peace Corps director, said that he chose the word because peace “truly was our business.” Sargent Shriver and the Peace Corps began to plant the seeds of peace in countries around the world. The Peace Corps is the creation of ideal­ists, like John F. Kennedy, like Sargent Shriver, like the 200,000 plus who have volunteered. These idealists used the Peace Movement and slowly but surely pushed until the movement slid faster and faster in the right direction. 
The Peace Corps represents the great values of American society. The strength of the Peace Corps today is “miraculous,” according to Lopez, and a testament that a fundamentally sound structure will endure. When we think of how we, as a nation, want to be viewed around the world, we must look to the Peace Corps and the heroes who have paved the way for the Peace Movement in the last 50 years. Today, tomorrow and the next, thank a peace veteran and continue to plant the seeds of the ever-growing Peace Movement. Here’s to the next 50 years. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Drawing on my fine command of the English language, I said nothing.” 
Robert Benchley 
American author 

WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite kind of candy? 
Reese’s peanut butter cup Milky Way M&M’s Twizzlers 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, November 2, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Groupon — the financial crisis reincarnated 
Welcome to the Groupon Economy. We’ve entered a new age where coupon-clipping grandmas of the world live in harmony with 20-something-year-olds. Labeled by “Forbes Magazine” as the fastest growing com­pany ever, Groupon Marc Anthony merges internet re-Rosa tail with brick-and­mortar stores, pro-Bro Meets viding cost-conscious World customers staggering discounts for everyday products and services. 
But, to a handful of wary merchants, this is too good to be true. Originally hailed as the savior of small business, Groupon represents a machine that could cause the death of small busi­ness itself. And the “et tu Brute” of it all is that we’ve seen this story before: The fundamental mechanics behind the Groupon business model share a strik­ing similarity to those of the subprime mortgage industry. To make sure we’re on the same page, that’s not good. 
Groupon’s business model is nothing short of fascinating. Groupon is a daily deals site that sells heavily-discounted gift certificates for a variety of busi­nesses. Millions of users receive emails about Daily Deals, which feature prod­ucts or services at significant discounts. Users opt in for these deals, and once a threshold is reached, “the deal is on.” Thanks to the committed buying power of large groups, Groupon is able to offer discounts between 50 and 90 percent. 
Why would any merchant offer their products at unrecoverable low prices? Advertising. In theory, these heavy discounts lure in an untapped, price-sensitive market. The name of the game is to target on-the-fence consumers, get them into the store and ultimately convert this to repeat sales. This is especially beneficial for struggling local businesses, where immediate cash needs and a desire for new customers are high on their lists. 
The business model is touted as a “win-win-win.” Customers reap the benefits of insane bargains, businesses reap the benefits of repeat business and Groupon, all the while, gets a piece of the action. Unfortunately, it’s a model that’s severely flawed. Let’s see why: 
The average Groupon is 50 percent off of a normally-marked item. Right off the bat, any business just eliminated half its revenue. From there, Groupon pockets half of those sales just for just being Groupon, so what looks like 50 percent is actually only 25 percent for the retailer. Take this to the next level: Groupon pays a third of sales after five days, waits a month to pay 1/3 more and then waits another month before paying the last 1/3. An item that normally goes for $50 ultimately returns under $13 dollars for any given business, spread unevenly over a quarter of a year. Long story short: Businesses working with Groupon are being sold an advertising campaign that resembles a very, very expensive loan. With a Groupon, the business is given a small amount of cash over three months from the coupon sales from Groupon and in exchange, businesses must sell customers tremendously un­dercut products. 
This is a machine that Bernie Madoff would be smitten with. And worst of all, the goal that makes it worth it for busi­nesses — to target new repeatable sales 
— lacks any substance. The benefits should come in the form of a larger loyal market, but the reality is that Grou­pon buyers aren’t actually any of those promised loyal consumers. Instead, Groupon purchasers represent a price-sensitive, bargain hunting demographic with little to zero expressed loyalty in Groupon businesses, outside of that initial discount. 
Step back and take a deeper look into the mechanics. You begin to realize something eerily reminiscent of the mid­2000’s, when housing financing instru­ments were boundless. A keen look into the Groupon model reveals cash flow mechanics that parallel the subprime mortgage industry. Replace “business” with “mortgage-bearers,” “Groupon consumer” with “subprime mortgage investor” and “Groupon” with “security issuer” and it suddenly becomes an analogy for debt securities considering how cash flows between parties. Take a pen and paper and actually trace the money flow for both Groupon and MBS issuances. It’s mind-blowing because the mechanics are parallel. 
Sure, I could probably create analogies between the yogurt industry and Ponzi schemes if I wanted to, but the main point is to illustrate what happens when the Groupon ecosystem crumbles. It all comes down to the weakest link, which in this case is the struggling local busi­nesses that are resorting to advertise­ments. What happens if they go out of business because of the Groupon? What happens if they anticipate bankruptcy and refuse Groupons halfway through? In both cases, businesses and customers lose. And, in both instances, buyers flock to Groupon to make a claim against their purchase. Because Groupon constantly needs cash to finance new Groupons, rebating these customers would upset a truly vicarious cash flow balancing act. Slowly but surely, a machine too big to fail can suffer from the same incremen­tal micro-events that occurred during the housing crisis, collapsing Groupon and bankrupting thousands of small businesses whose Groupon account receivables well exceed their almost-nonexistent cash balances. 
Rational people would never submit to this. But thousands of struggling busi­nesses are doing so in record droves. You can’t fault them. Millions of consum­ers are buying Groupons because they’re worth it, building unprecedented buzz that small business owners have zero reason to question. 
Until now. 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior management entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Golden evening at the Golden Dome 
How is your love life?  Are you in a happy, long-term relationship?  Are you out and about, looking for a mate?  Or are you thinking there is no one out there for you and you’re thinking about giving up casting your net into the sea? 
Well, as the cold weather is approaching, there is the perennial turn to the dorm-and off-campus party.  From these flows the hook-up culture.  Even though Valentine’s Day is over three months away, Pillars and OADE, sponsored by the GRC, are hosting 49 ½ First Dates.  The event will consist of speed dating/“friending” and a panel dis­cussion on the role of healthy relationships. Delicious mocktails will be served through­out the evening by your wonderful peers. Come out to meet new friends and perhaps connect with your true love. 
All are invited, whether you are in a long-term relationship, are looking for love or friendship or are just curious as to the noise coming from the Ballroom in LaFun. Come on over on Wednesday night at 8 p.m 
— there’s a surprise in store.  We promise to have a fun-filled evening while consid­ering the role of healthy relationships in college students’ lives.  This will be a great way to celebrate healthy relationships in light of Sexual Violence Awareness Week, and how we as a community can work together to bring about the brighter side of things. 
Justin Sena 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Nov. 1 

Awareness benefits all 
The campus wide e-mail once a week cover­ing the latest sexual assault on campus has, unfortunately, become a little too familiar to us here at Notre Dame. On campus, while we know we are safe, there is always that statistical probability for which we can never be fully prepared. Although we can do our part to remain safe and use various strategies to caution against an undesirable incident, we definitely must never underestimate the traumatic experiences of those unfortunate enough to have lived through such a tragedy. 
This week, not only are we remembering and sympathizing with victims of sexual as­sault on campus, but we are also consciously making an extra effort towards preventing future assaults and understanding why this issue is so important. The Gender Relations Center, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Edu­cation, Campus Ministry and a host of other organizations on campus have come together to promote a week filled with fun activities, educational learning experiences and forums to have your voices heard. So go on out there and be a part of the Notre Dame spirit. Pro­vide a sense of community to those who need it most and let one another know that support is never far away. 
Do not fret over what has happened in the past, but use those lessons as important guid­ing stones in a quest for what is hopefully a positive and beneficial outcome for society as a whole. Share your knowledge and do not be afraid to ask hitherto unasked questions in your search for truth and justice. 
Nikitha Taniparti 
sophomore Badin Hall Oct. 31 
Lauren Studios under fire 
I’m not a big fan of protest — and I don’t plan to Occupy Wall Street now or in the near future — but when something’s wrong, it’s wrong and deserves to be addressed. 
One of the worst business practices I have seen is the Notre Dame/Lauren Studios affiliation providing seniors with yearbook pictures. For those unfamiliar, Notre Dame requires students wish­ing to appear in the yearbook to pay Lauren Studios for a sitting (aren’t these normally free with decent photographers?) and then offers opportunities to purchase overpriced prints. 
On top of the atypical charges, the quality of the Lauren Studio’s service is unacceptable. Not only were the sittings usually running 30-plus minutes late, but the photographers were terrible. No, I don’t want to say “Megan Fox” or “My best friend’s girlfriend” in or­der for you to shoot five times when I’m not ready and ship me out. 
Maybe I’m over-agitated about the quality. Anyone who knows me knows I have no potential for a good photo anyway. Let’s move on to step two in how to create the nastiest business possible: Mail out un-requested proofs to everyone and mandate they be returned at a specified time and place or else a student incurs a fee of $25 per un-retouched two-by-three proof. Sounds about right. Just for good measure, don’t mention the fee in any e-mails — hide it in the finer print of a brochure no one reads. Bingo! You owe Lauren Studios $250. Next time I take a picture I’m going to mail it to everyone and add a similar clause. I could make a lot of money! This is at best unethical, and at worst illegal. 
To Lauren Studios: Really? Your lack of photography skill is laughable, lack of business skill is sad and lack of morals is just plain wrong. 
To Notre Dame: Come on, you’ve gotta be smarter than this. I’m sure Lauren Studios is paying you well for the exclusive contract, but did you look over their practices? If you did, and you’re okay with it, I just lost respect for this great University. Let’s change it. 
Matt Jensen 
senior off campus Nov. 1 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 2, 2011 



BRANDY CERNE BC: If I can say so, you have a history of playing you think there are any themes in particular that will Scene Writer somewhat creepy characters. Are you drawn to those appeal to ND students? more sinister roles or are you drawn to the other roles? WM: Redemption and forgiveness are hallmarks of 
Actor and Notre Dame alumnus William Mapother is WM: No, I’m drawn to being employed. And it’s a Catholicism and Catholic education. That’s the first bringing his latest film, “Another Earth,” to the DeBar-very, very competitive business. It’s gotten even more thing. The second is the lead character is the same age tolo Performing Arts Center. Mapother plays a compos-competitive than ever in the last few years. And Holly-as most Notre Dame students. I think they will find her er who crosses paths with a young girl (Brit Marling) wood seeks to reduce risk. Nobody knows if a TV show situation very compelling. She is at the beginning of after a tragic accident, which coincides with the dis-or movie is going to be successful. That’s a very scary her life, and makes a mistake, and has to decide how to covery of another planet in the solar system that looks proposition for a business. One way to lessen the risk is cope with the consequences. just like Earth. After premiering at the Sundance Film to hire actors for roles you know they can play, so once BC: It seems like there will be many people who can Festival, “Another Earth” has played in limited release you get known for one thing, they are a bit reluctant to relate to that, especially as we’re making our transi­throughout the United States. let you try something else. And that’s one reason why tion into the real world. 
Mapother took the time to speak on the phone with a lot of actors like myself do smaller independent films WM: Yeah, and in addition, the story poses some Scene staff writer Brandy Cerne. because they trade on the value of your face and name, fascinating philosophical questions. You know, what’s 
Brandy Cerne: What is it like for you to return to and in exchange, you get to play different roles. And come out in science this year. One, we’re discovering campus? You’re coming back next weekend for the that brings us to “Another Earth.” I play a grieving fa-that there are new universes that we weren’t aware of screening. ther and husband. and similarly, a book by Brian Greene, a very esteemed 
William Mapother: I love coming back. I have very BC: What else drew you to the film? physicist has proposed parallel universes. When the fond memories of my time at ND. So I love coming WM: I hadn’t read a story like this. The genesis of my director and the star co-wrote the script they were un­back. It’s not only nostalgic, but it’s doubly enjoyable involvement is kind of an interesting story. December aware of that, but it dovetails nicely into the release of because I have an ongoing relationship with the Uni-of 2009 I was in New York at a Shakespeare lab at the this book and it’s gotten a lot of attention. versity in the form of coming back for shows and work-public theater that puts on Shakespeare in the Park. BC: Yeah, very timely. ing with the students, so it’s definitely gratifying. I’ve For a full summer, they teach you to play Shakespeare WM: Exactly, and it explores the question of what come back twice before. Once with a horror movie with soup to nuts. While I was there, I sent some casting would you do if you met yourself. Sarah Michelle Gellar called “The Grudge.” And then directors’ names to my manager and asked him to set BC: And then of course, I have to ask you about a couple years ago or so I came back with a documen-up meetings. A big part of being an actor is being a “Lost,” because for many fans, I would say that the role tary I narrated called “Mountaintop Removal” about self-starter. You have to be very proactive to look for of Ethan is pretty iconic. Even just remembering that that destructive coal-mining process. It covers eastern opportunities everywhere, so I thought as long as I’m in moment of when we found out you weren’t on the plane Kentucky and West Virginia. Both of those screened at New York I’m going to try and meet with some people. freaks me out. So what was it like to be a part of that DPAC and I did a Q&A after. I met with one casting director. There was construc-show? 
BC: You talked about your fond memories here, tion on the building, it was loud and dusty, a 20 min-WM: It’s tough to put into words and not sound cli­which most of us have at Notre Dame. What was your ute meeting. Very inauspicious. Two weeks later, they chéd or glib. It was lucky. And it was an honor. Given experience like here? sent me a script in L.A. and the offer basically was, the quality of a lot of mainstream entertainment, it 
WM: Well people often ask if I was happy there or if I “We’d like you to play this role, it is a first time direc-was an honor to be a part of “Lost,” which proved that liked it. The challenge in answering that is that I didn’t tor, the actress is so new she’s not even in [the Screen entertainment didn’t have to be dumbed down to be go anywhere else, so I have nothing to compare it to. Actors’ Guild] yet, and we’re going to pay you as little popular. But I did. I had some growing pains in my transition to as your union allows us. Are you interested?” So I read BC: I agree also, I was a big fan. What can we expect adulthood and Notre Dame was a very supportive envi-the script and liked the script, and I also liked the fact to see you in next? ronment for that. I lamented while I was there some of that I had never played a role like this. Also, the direc-WM: I have an independent film coming out in De-the homogeneity of the student population, but looking tor and the producer, who’s also the costar, sent along cember called “A Warrior’s Heart” in which I play a back I think it was helpful for me during my transition. footage they had already shot and I could see that the lacrosse coach. It stars two of the actors from the Twi-The student population now, I believe, is a lot more het-director and the lead actress knew what they were do-light series, Ashley Greene and Kellan Lutz. erogeneous than when I was there. The one thing that ing, even if they were new and young. And finally, I met BC: That also seems like a different role for you. stands out for me during my time at Notre Dame was with them in person and we got along like a house on WM: Yeah, it is a different role. And then in January, the friendships I made there and that I still maintain. fire. I’m in a Lifetime movie with Rob Lowe about Drew Pe-I was a member of a group of about 12 guys and we’re BC: You mentioned the wages. I know it was made terson, an infamous police officer in Illinois accused of still in close contact. It’s rare among old people I know for very little money, but it’s getting a lot of attention, killing two of his wives. who went to different universities. starting with the success at Sundance. How was your BC: I have seen the pictures of Rob Lowe and his new 
BC: Besides personally, do you think that ND pre-experience actually filming it? hair for that film. pared you for your career as an actor? WM: It was a fantastic experience. Our crew was so WM: It’s creepy how similar he looks. I also am the 
WM: Well, I spent four years there and I’m lucky small it could have fit in a station wagon. So while on cofounder of Slated.com, and we are doing something enough to get acting work, so I must have done some-the one hand that can be a disadvantage because you that’s never existed before. We’ve created an online thing right. It was inadvertent, because I didn’t study have to make compromises, on the other hand there platform for investing in film. We are bringing inves­acting at Notre Dame. I was an English major, and are some advantages. One is that it requires a lot of cre-tors and filmmakers together online. learning to understand and interpret text certainly ativity from the crew. Another is that with the smaller BC: How do you think that will change things in the prepared me for acting. crew and by using a digital camera, there’s really more industry? 
BC: And then you taught for a few years after gradu-time available for shooting instead of setting up the WM: Right now there is very little capital available ating, right? shot. Because what requires the most time usually on a for independent film, and yet, there are wealthy indi-
WM: Yes, after graduating I was first a production movie set is arranging the lights. Because the director viduals all around the country who would love to invest assistant, which is more commonly known as a peon. shot with natural light and because we used digital, in movies but they don’t know any filmmakers. They do everything on film sites. They are gophers the set up time was very short. Which meant that we “Another Earth” is screening at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. basically. And then I worked in development and that had more time to shoot, to explore, to improvise, to ex-this Friday, Nov. 4, with Mapother in attendance for an means reading scripts, working with writers, meet-periment. So I would far prefer having that opportunity introduction and Q&A. ing with agents. So after doing that for three years, I over making more money and having a fancy trailer. Mapother is also appearing on “The Mentalist” this thought that maybe I didn’t want to be in the movie BC: It has sci-fi elements but it’s not your typical sci-fi Thursday, Nov. 3, on CBS at 10 p.m. industry, so I taught junior high and high school in East film with huge CGI, why not? 
L.A. for a few years. WM: Yes! You know, women traditionally run away Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu BC: So what made you make the transition to acting? from sci-fi, so while we can’t deny the sci-fi elements, WM: I realized that teaching was not for me. It takes we’re fond of saying it’s a character drama with a sci-fi 
a very special person to be a teacher. I knew that intel-backdrop. It is really about the characters. Women in lectually, but it wasn’t until I experienced it that really particular really love this movie. You know, the lead sunk in. I went to New York for a while and directed a character is approximately your age. It’s a story of re­play. I took a couple of acting classes almost as a lark demption and forgiveness. To return to where you were and found them a hell of a lot more fun and a hell of a headed, you’re absolutely right that science fiction, es-lot more challenging than I expected. And challenging pecially in recent years, has become about explosions intellectually as well. And I came back to L.A. and was and big budgets, and this movie returns to what tradi­lucky enough to find one of the few good acting schools. tionally was science fiction, and that’s the exploration I went to a two-year acting school and started when I of ideas and alternatives. was 32. So I started much, much later than most actors. BC: It seems like it has really interesting themes. Do 
Photo Courtesy of Fox Searchlight Films 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, November 2, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

LAUREN CHVAL In the most over-the-top, cliché way imagin-Scene Writer able, Harry changed that for me. I drank in 
that first book faster than anything I had tast-
I was seven when I climbed into the green ed in my young life. I loved the world J.K. Row-rocking chair in our living room with Harry ling created for me, I loved the characters, I Potter’s first adventure. I didn’t enjoy reading loved magic — but most of all, I loved reading. much because my brother Craig, who trails I had already received all the lectures about me two years in age, had been reading longer how important reading was in my young life. and was much better at it. I liked to stick to Teachers, assemblies, “Reading Rainbow” — the things I was better at, like coloring and they all stressed to me with almost frantic ur­handwriting, and Craig could have those in-gency how FUN reading was supposed to be, consequential little skills like reading and all the while books just felt like more home-math. work for me to struggle through. 
The first page dragged for me, as did the And yet, books were never the same to me second and third. I flipped ahead to see how after Harry. “The Sorcerer’s Stone” shoved me long the first chapter was — 17 pages. The through the door to all literature, not just the daily routine of the Dursleys did nothing for kind written by J.K. Rowling. Almost over-me. Mr. Dursley drives to work, yells at peo-night, I developed a passion for characters ple, thinks about drills, buys a doughnut … and words and stories. I immersed myself in I groaned and scrambled out of the chair to Helen of Troy’s tragedy, the mysteries of Nan-return the book on the shelf. cy Drew, and the quaint tales of Laura Ingalls. 
“What are you doing?” my mother asked It is hard to remember a time after falling into sharply, coming out of nowhere as mothers do. Harry’s world when I didn’t have a bookmark 
“It’s boring,” I wailed, hoping the sheer pitch in between two pages somewhere. In the next of my complaint would deter her. few years, I would come to love stories and 
“That book is a gift from your grandma, characters so much that I wanted to create and you will read it. At least the first chapter, some of my own. missy.” So it was Harry Potter who turned me into a 
I sat back in the rocking chair, grumbling reader and then, eventually, a writer. And as about my Miss Manners mother. I still had life complicates itself, the economy crumbles, 14 pages to go, but it only took another four and everyone tries to sway me from sticking for Albus Dumbledore to show up on Privet it out as an English major, I remember that Drive. No one ever had to bully me into read-green rocking chair and the book that plucked ing again. me from my elementary school woes. 
If Hagrid rescued Harry from a life of mis-Over the years my parents moved us cross­ery with the Dursleys, he rescued me from country a couple of times, and somewhere second-grade nothingness. I was so shy that along the way, we got rid of the rocking chair. every social interaction had me horrifically But when I sat down to reread the first Harry anxious and so scattered that one moment I Potter book at the old age of 20, I realized it was obnoxiously correcting other kids’ re-was the same paperback copy my grandma sponses in class and the next forgetting to do bought me when I was seven. Some things, I my homework. I had no athletic talent to dis-guess, just stay with you forever. cover, no faithful sidekick to push me along 
— no great love of anything at all. Contact Lauren Chval at lchval@nd.edu 
CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Fred Nelson, president of the People’s Choice Awards and 1987 Notre Dame graduate, arrives at Notre Dame this week through the Film, Television and Theater Department to give a talk about what he has learned from movies, TV and music. 
Though the Film, Television and Theater major did not exist when Nelson attended Notre Dame, he took classes with the Department of American Studies and understands what issues FTT majors face. 
“I’m used to having to defend the notion that pop culture is a serious field of study,” said Nelson. “I had a lot of friends who were [in the Program of Liberal Studies] … while I was writing a paper on ‘Charlie’s Angels.’ So they’d give [me] a hard time and would tease me that it wasn’t going anywhere.” 
Nelson has worked in magazines, television, ad agencies and more, including positions at Time, Es­quire, Entertainment Weekly and Leo Burnett Adver­tising. He was co-executive producer of VH1’s “The World Series of Pop Culture” and has shared his en­tertainment expertise on “Access Hollywood,” “Enter­tainment Tonight,” E!, Bravo and network television stations. 
“Whenever there was a news report or talking heads shows to comment on pop culture, I became one of those people that producers would call,” Nelson said. “I ended up being on TV talking about my pop culture expertise.” 
He is currently president of the People’s Choice Awards that airs yearly on CBS. He is responsible for the whole franchise, including working on press conferences, hiring executive producers and working with sponsors and talent bookers; both producing TV and managing a franchise. 
Nelson’s talk, titled “Popular Culture is Not an Oxy­moron,” will provide tips for career advancement in film, television, theater, publishing and advertising. 
He said he hopes to give his talk about what he would have wanted to hear as a student attending a talk like this, giving wisdom from his past 25 years reflected by pop culture at the time and his career in the time. 
“I want to give little tidbits of wisdom I’ve gained over the years career-wise, tied back to what pop cul­ture taught us,” Nelson said. “My training at Notre Dame was education, supplemented by a really strong training program taught me to work in the business world.” 
With his many experiences in jobs involving media entertainment, Nelson has a lot to tell about different working environment for students hoping to pursue similar careers. 
“Because of the nature of the output, it’s just always different,” he said. “No two days are alike. You’re working on a variety of things and different levels of development.” 
Looking back, Nelson admitted he was naïve when he graduated, because it’s impossible to know some­thing until you do it. An important virtue Nelson learned through his experiences is the value of pa­tience. 
“One of the things I’ll talk about is about patience. I did find if you’re dedicated, hardworking and tal­ented, you’ll reach the level of success you deserve,” Nelson said. “We have the tendency to want it now. 
I found for me that I thought it would happen a lot sooner, that I wouldn’t have to have patience over the long haul, and that’s definitely not the case.” 
Another aspect of his career important to Nelson is loving what he does for a living. 
“For the most part, because you’re surrounded by like-minded people interested in the subject matter,” Nelson said. “No matter how hard you’re working it’s inherently fun.” 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: “Popular Culture is Not an Oxymoron” with Fred Nelson Where: Browning Cinema When: Thursday, Nov. 3, 4 p.m. How Much: Free, tickets available at Debartolo Performing Arts Center 
ticket office 
Learn More: performingarts.nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 2, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Pay day for Sabathia 
Carsten Charles Sabathia. It’s a big name, he’s a big man and now he’s got an even bigger contract than before. 
With the opportunity to test free agency and opt out of the final four years of his deal with the Yankees, in which he was slated to earn $92 million, CC agreed to an extension that will add one year and $30 million to his preexisting agreement. Al­ready 31 years old, Sabathia is now locked up through the 2016 season, by which time he will be $122 million richer. 
The deal that originally put Sabathia in pinstripes in 2008 was worth $161 million over seven years, paying the hefty lefty an average of $23 million per season. His new deal factors 
out to an  
average of  Joe Monardo  
$24.4 million  
each year.  Sports Writer  
If Sabathia  
tosses 240  

innings per year, he would be earning $101,666 per inning. That is almost $34,000 earned for every out. 
While the numbers of Sa­bathia’s deal seem to be more fitting as components of a GDP than as the salary of an indi­vidual, the agreement shouldn’t come as much of a surprise to anyone. 
Sabathia has recorded 59 wins for the Yankees over the past three seasons and earned a 19-8 record in 2011. CC’s 3.00 ERA last season was the second lowest mark of his 11-year ca­reer. In 2011, the massive start­er also accumulated his lowest totals for walks, runs, earned runs and home runs — and the highest strikeout total — of his three seasons in New York. All of this came in 237.1 innings pitched, his fifth straight year equaling at least 230 innings pitched in a season. 
Befitting of his build and stat­ure, the 6’7” hurler has earned a reputation and made a living as a workhorse (not because he is as big as some horses) and innings-eater (not only because he looks to eat plenty). It is a good thing that Sabathia has this to hang his hat on, because although his statistics place him among the realm of elite pitchers, they certainly do not set him apart. CC finished in the top five in innings pitched and wins for the 2011 season, but drifted towards the outskirts of the top 20, or even beyond, in most other categories. 
Despite the imperfections in the ace’s numbers, CC is of an immeasurable value to the Yankees. Well, then again, $122 million pretty much covers it. Behind their number one starter, the Bronx Bombers turn to unproven Ivan Nova and all-too-proven A.J. Burnett. Their lack of depth in the rota­tion undoubtedly contributed to the Yankees’ willingness to shell out big bucks to retain the lone bright spot of their starting staff. 
The circumstances surround­ing the extension set in place between Sabathia and the Yanks amounted to a perfect storm of sorts. A number of factors contributed to cre­ate the possibility, or even the necessity, of a monumental deal being reached between the two parties. 
Understandably, Sabathia’s success throughout his career and in his years with the Yan­kees encouraged the team to do whatever it took to hold on to the largest man in baseball. Due to the lack of production from their starting arms numbered two through five, the Yankees needed to secure someone to headline their staff that rarely misses time due to injury. With no other pitcher on the market this offseason approaching Sabathia’s ability or resume, the Yankees had no other viable options than to chase their star. And most obviously, the Yan­kees are absolutely loaded. Few teams would be able to match the type of money offered by the team from New York and even fewer teams would be willing to tie up that much money in a single player. 
But even with all the reasons that this deal makes sense, there are plenty of reasons it doesn’t. CC is seemingly past or, at best, at his prime. By 2016, when Sabathia will be in his upper 30s, it is highly doubtful that he will be worth anything near the $25 million he will be due. Especially for an athlete of Carsten’s size, maintaining a reasonable weight and staying in shape figure to be difficult tasks for one reaching the top of the proverbial “hill.” Already this year, Sabathia seems to have faded down the stretch, going 3-3 in the months of August and September before posting unsightly numbers in the postseason. CC allowed batters to hit .323 against him while he racked up a 2.08 WHIP and an ERA of 6.23 while the Yankees fell to the Tigers in the ALDS. 
But ultimately, it’s business as usual for the Yanks, and Sa­bathia will now be held to even higher standards than before. 30 wins sounds reasonable, right? 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.
   Contact Joe Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
NFL 
Governor rules out tax increase 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  — Gov. Mark Dayton ruled out a tax increase as a way to help pay for a new Minnesota Vikings stadium on Tuesday, blowing a $350 million hole in the team’s plan to build a $1.1 billion home in the suburbs north of the Twin Cities. 
Stadium supporters on the Ramsey County Board had proposed raising the county sales tax by half a cent to come up with the $350 mil­lion local share of the over­all cost. But Dayton, after conferring with leading lawmakers from both par­ties, said there is not enough support in the Legislature to exempt any proposed tax in­crease from a public vote — either in Ramsey County, or in Minneapolis if a stadium plan lands there instead. 
Without that exemption, a vote couldn’t be held until November 2012, long after the team wants construction to begin. And most observ­ers believe voters would re­ject any tax increase to fund a replacement for the Me­trodome, where the Vikings are in the final year of their lease. 
The stumbling block is like­ly to put renewed attention on three potential locations for a new stadium in downtown Minneapolis: the current Me­trodome site, and two sites near the Minnesota Twins’ Target Field. Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak quickly issued a press release af­ter Dayton’s announcement, calling his city “the best loca­tion for the Vikings, because it is the least expensive.” 
Dayton and others have said they take seriously the possibility that the Vikings will leave for another city without a new stadium. The governor said he doesn’t have a preference between Arden Hills and Minneapolis. But the Minneapolis sites are likely to offer a lower over­all price tag, since the Arden Hills land is a former Army ammunition plant, and ex­pected to carry significant added costs tied to environ­mental cleanup and trans­portation improvements. 
Vikings vice president Les­ter Bagley said the team’s focus remains on partnering with Ramsey County despite the setback. 
“We have to put our heads together with our partner and see how we can move this project forward,” Bagley said, adding. “We think we have the ideal site. There are finance options on the table to make this happen. We’re encouraged that our leaders believe this is an urgent situ­ation.” 

Bagley said the Vikings haven’t had any formal dis­cussions with Minneapolis leaders since focusing on Arden Hills. Ramsey County commissioners Rafael Ortega and Tony Bennett, the team’s two strongest allies on the county board, said in a state­ment they had always pre­ferred a payment method that spread the obligation wider than Ramsey County taxpay­ers, and that they would con­tinue to push that site despite the latest development. 
Under the Arden Hills pro­posal, the county was to con­tribute $350 million with the state putting in $300 million and the Vikings covering $407 million, plus any cost overruns. Dayton, who previ­ously pledged the state would not exceed $300 million, re­fused Tuesday to hold to that vow. 
“That assumed a local con­tribution of $350 million, and that’s not now available, so we have to go to Plan B at this point,” Dayton said. He said discussions would con­tinue on several, previously mentioned possibilities. 
Those include tax revenue from expanded gambling in one of several permutations: a brand new casino in down­town Minneapolis; the addi­tion of video slot machines at two horse-racing tracks near the Twin Cities; or allowing bars and restaurants to shift from offering paper pull-tabs to electronic ones. That lat­ter option alone has been estimated by legislative re­searchers to raise up to $42 million a year, and Dayton said he sees the strongest support coalescing around that approach. 
“I think the electronic pull-tabs probably has the most promise at this point in terms of drawing enough support in the Legislature,” Dayton said. “My sense is that’s probably the most immediately available and plausible source right now.” 
Another approach men­tioned recently is to divert money from the state’s so-called “Legacy” sales tax, approved by voters in 2008 to dedicate money to arts and cultural programs, out­door preservation and clean water initiatives. Dayton said that would not be his preferred approach but that he is not ready to rule it out, either. 
The Vikings have sought a replacement for the Metro-dome for years, calling the Minneapolis venue no lon­ger sufficiently profitable. In recent weeks, Dayton has thrown considerable weight behind the new stadium push; the Democratic gover­nor hoped to call a special legislative session before the end of the year to dispatch with the issue. 
Dayton said Tuesday he didn’t see the latest devel­opment as a setback, that it narrows the range of options in front of stadium support­ers and that he still hoped to call a special session ei­ther right before or just after Thanksgiving. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
I kept everything inside and even I bleed it out digging deeper I’m tired of being what you want me So give me reason 
PERSONAL 

though I tried, it all fell apart Just to throw it away to be To prove me wrong Just to throw it away To wash this memory clean What it meant to me will eventually Just to throw it away Feeling so faithless, lost under the Let the floods cross UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? be a memory of a time when I tried surface The distance in your eyes 
 Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame so hard I bleed it out  Give me reason 
has many resources in place to Don’t know what you’re expecting To fill this hole 
assist you. If you or someone you And got so far Go stop the show of me Connect this space between 
love needs confidential support Let it be enough to reach the truth 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue But in the end Choppy words and a sloppy flow Put under the pressure of walking in that lies 
Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at Shotgun opera lock and load your shoes Across this new divide 
1-2685. For more information, It doesn’t even matter Cock it back and then watch it go 
visit ND’s website at: http:// 

pregnancysupport@nd.edu -- Linkin Park “In The End” --Linkin Park “Bleed It Out” --Linkin Park “Numb” --Linkin Park “New Divide” 
Wednesday, November 2, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NHL 

Bruins halt losing streak, defeat Sens 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Johnny Boychuk and Daniel Paille scored 47 seconds apart to break open a tie game in the third period, and the Boston Bruins ended a three-game losing streak with a 5-3 win over the Ottawa Sena­tors on Tuesday night. 
Chris Kelly had a goal and an assist, and Zdeno Chara had two assists for the defending Stanley Cup champions, who finished the first month of the season with the worst record in the Eastern Conference (3-7). 
The Bruins also snapped the Senators’ six-game winning streak. 
Boston outshot Ottawa 16-7 in the second period and took a 3-2 lead on goals by Patrice Bergeron and Chris Kelly, then put in two more after Ottawa’s Jared Cowen tied it at 3-all on his first NHL goal with 14:56 left. 
Boychuk gave Boston a 4-3 lead with a slap shot from the point, and less than a minute lat­er Paille scored on a breakaway to put the Bruins up by two. 
That was a big enough cushion for Tim Thomas (4-4), who fin­ished with 23 saves. 
Craig Anderson (6-3) stopped 36 shots for Ottawa, which hadn’t lost since Oct. 18. 
Nick Foligno finished with a goal and two assists, and Ste­phane DaCosta had a goal and an assist for Ottawa. 
After getting outplayed in the second, the Senators grinded out the early part of the third and tied it when Folingo dropped a pass back to the point to Cow-en, who fired a slap shot past a screen of players and Thomas’ right pad. 
But Boychuk tied it on a blast from the point with 13:19 to go, and Paille took a pass from Shawn Thornton for a break­away and scored on Anderson with 12:42 left. 
Folingo gave Ottawa a 1-0 lead in the first period when he grabbed a loose puck and lofted a backhander off Thom­as’ blocker. The puck dropped behind him, and Bobby Butler crashed the net for Ottawa, oc­cupying Thomas and the Bruins as the puck trickled across the goal line. 
Milan Lucic tied it with a pow­er-play goal with 12:48 left in the first, lifting a rebound over An­derson, but Ottawa struck again barely a minute later. 
Folingo pounced on a loose puck and slid a backward pass between his legs to Stephane DaCosta, who poked a shot past Thomas as the details of Lucic’s goal were being announced to the crowd. 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles finish season at .500 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles closed out the regu­lar season with a strong 3-0 victo­ry over Hope College on Tuesday, securing their 10th victory of the season. 
“I think our work rate was in­credible this afternoon,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “Players really gave everything they had.” 
Saint Mary’s (10-10, 6-10 MIAA) scored within the first 10 min­utes of the first half when senior midfielder Taylor Paton aimed a corner kick at freshman defender Kerry Green, who secured her first collegiate goal. 
The Flying Dutch (12-7, 10-6) had two shots on goal in the first half, but Saint Mary’s freshman goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum blocked both. 
“Today we made the big stops where we needed them and con­verted well on offense,” Joyce said. 
Heading into the second half, Saint Mary’s countered another pair of shots from Hope before gaining the upper hand offensive­ly. Sophomore forward Kaitlin Tei­chman threaded a pass to fellow sophomore forward Jordan Dif­fenderfer, who buried the ball into the bottom right corner of the net. 
Rounding out the scoring, Dif­fenderfer dodged her defender and slipped a sideways pass to senior defender and co-captain Michelle Marshall, who scored the third and final goal of the game. Tues­day’s victory marked the first time in seven seasons Saint Mary’s de­feated Hope. 

“Having one of our seniors score in their last game with a few min­utes to go was icing on the cake,” Joyce said. 
Rosenbaum saved seven shots from the Flying Dutch and secured her second shutout of the season. 
“We played 19 players during the game and everyone played ex­ceptional,” Joyce said. “It was such a team effort.” 
While the Belles finished just one victory short of a winning sea­son, the Belles put together their best season in the last five years. They started 5-0 for the first time in program history and finished the season ranked sixth in the conference. They also had six shutouts between their two fresh­men goalies, Rosenbaum and Nat­alie Warner. 
“It’s the biggest win for the pro­gram since I’ve been here,” Joyce said. “We talk about how we’re competitive with the top schools, but until you really prove it, it is all talk.” 
Joyce, who completed his sec­ond season at the helm of the Belles with the win, said he in­tends to use the off-season pro­ductively in order to further his program’s success. 
“We’ve got to start thinking and training in the off-season like the top schools,” Joyce said. “I think we’re headed in the right direc­tion.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 2, 2011 
Opener 
continued from page 16 
beyond the arc. Though Abro­maitis will miss the first four regular season games due to eligibility issues, Irish coach Mike Brey said fans need to be aware of just how good of a player he is. 
“I hope our fans realize that [Abromaitis] is just a beauti­ful player to watch,” Brey said. “He’s one of the best players in the country . enjoy it. He was a rock for us tonight with young guys running all over the place at times. He kind of steadied us.” 
Despite only 23 minutes on the floor, junior forward Jack Cooley recorded a double-dou­ble in his first start in an Irish uniform, snatching a team-high 11 rebounds and chipping in 14 points. 
“I was really pleased with [Cooley] playing 23 minutes,” Brey said. “I think he could’ve played more. I thought [he] was pretty productive. I don’t think he ever got worn out, and we didn’t play him for too long a segment. It’s his first start, I have to remind myself of that. But he was really ready to go. I wish he could do what he did tonight [consistently]. That was a blueprint of what we could use . 14 and 11 in 23 minutes, and there were some guys bruised up on the other team and [he had] a couple blocked shots.” 
The third sure-starter for the Irish, sophomore point guard Eric Atkins, added 19 points and six assists in the Notre Dame victory. Brey said Atkins did a good job of embracing his role as a game manager while still managing to score. 
“I was really pleased with [Atkins] for the most part,” he said. “I think we need to work on him defensively, but in terms of running the team and finding ways to score, be­cause he’s going to need to do that, it was a really good night where he’s the guy. He had to be the guy and he gave us that. If you get a defensive rebound and get the ball to Eric Atkins, good things are going to hap­pen.” 
The Irish jumped out to a five-point lead early in the game and extended it to dou­ble-digits at the 3:40 mark in the first half, where the mar­gin remained for the rest of the game. The Cougars hung around, led by sophomore guard Brad Karp’s 25 points and nine rebounds. 
“I thought that was a good team for us to play because they’re older, they’ve played to­gether and they really run their stuff,” Brey said. “They really challenged us. We couldn’t guard them sometimes. We weren’t very good defensively sometimes, and then we had some good possessions, so I think it’s a great learning tape to watch. We’re really trying to evaluate our group.” 
Irish freshman Pat Con­naughton came out strong in his Notre Dame debut, finish­ing the game with seven points, including two three-pointers, and five rebounds. Brey said he was extremely excited about the freshman’s performance. 
“I was very pleased with Connaughton,” he said. “That’s how he’s practiced. He played a lot older than he is and he’s going to be important for us. When [he] played like he did in the first half, I really wanted to get him some minutes quickly with some key guys in a key part of the game, because I was really impressed and I thought that we really learned a lot there. He’s just not afraid of the lights . he loves it, and so I was pleased with that.” 
The two other Irish start­ers, junior guard Joey Brooks and sophomore guard Jerian Grant, struggled to get into a rhythm offensively, combining for just seven points on 2-for-13 shooting from the floor. 
Notre Dame played without senior Scott Martin, who was sidelined with an ankle in­jury. Martin averaged almost 10 points and five rebounds last season for the Irish, and Brey said he hopes Martin will be back for their next exhibi­tion game against Stonehill on Monday. 
“If it was a regular season game, we probably would have pushed it,” he said. “I’m not sure about next Monday. Cer­tainly we need him the first four games, so I’m trying to see if we can get him back in practice midweek next week as we go into that stretch with­out [Abromaitis]. He’s been through a lot of practices, so if we can give him a little time to tune up before that stretch, that’s the goal. 
“Here are some things to look at. It’s going to be little steps with this group. I’m kind of ex-final exhibition game Mon-cited to see how we go week to day before hosting Mississip­week, and now we’ve got one pi Valley State on Nov. 12 to under our belt, and we’ll try to start the regular season. learn from it.” 

Notre Dame will take on Contact Eric Prister at                   Stonehill in their second and eprister@nd.edu 
Canada 
continued from page 16 
Wright Memorial Tourna­ment in Toronto. They lost for the first time this season Sunday to the Regina Cou­gars of Alberta. 
The Lancers finished 34-2 last season, won their con­ference title and became national champions after winning the Canadian Inter-university Sport title, Can­ada’s version of the NCAA championships. 
Two players from Wind­sor’s team represented Can­ada at the World University Games. Former Lancer Rae­lyn Prince and current guard Miah-Marie Langlois made the trip to Asia to represent Canada. 
 “There is a lot of excite­ment building for us, and we have to see what we’re going to do,” McGraw said. 
The Irish tip off at 7 p.m. against the Lancers in their only exhibition game of the season. 
Contact Molly Sammon at          msammon@nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 2, 2011 

Clark 
continued from page 16 
had good solid defense in the first half. I thought we handled [Seton Hall] very well in that pe­riod.” 
Fittingly, the only score of the first half was delivered in the 30th minute by junior defender Grant Van De Casteele, who col­lected a loose ball at the top of Seton Hall’s box and slammed it past Pirate sophomore goal­keeper Anthony Reichwaldt with his left foot. 
“He definitely showed our strikers how to finish,” Clark said. “It was a really well-hit goal.” 
Not to be outdone, junior for­ward Ryan Finley answered for the strikers when he utilized a fantastic dribbling display to create space and notch a goal of his own in the 50th minute. Shortly after going up 2-0, the Irish escaped unharmed as Se­ton Hall freshman forward Jer­emy Witherspoon sent the Pi­rates’ best scoring opportunity of the day high of the net. 
“[In the] second half, we got off to a great start,” Clark said. “Perhaps I thought we almost relaxed too much because I felt that after that [second] goal we let them into the game just a little bit. But once the third goal came and then the fourth goal came, it was pretty comfortable for us.” 
Senior midfielder Michael Rose delivered the third goal for Notre Dame in the 68th min­ute as he sliced through the Se­ton Hall defense and netted the goal from close range. In the 74th minute, Finley scored the game’s final goal for his sec­ond of the day, giving him a team leading seven scores this season. For the Irish, the mul­titude of goals scored in the game signals a welcome devel­opment. 
“It was good to score goals, today,” senior defender Greg Klazura said. “That’s some­thing that we feel that we are capable of but at times we have been unable to do.” 
A common theme for the Irish in 2011 has been an in­ability to convert scoring chances into goals, but no such problem plagued the team Tuesday, even against a Seton Hall team coming off an upset over No. 7 Connecticut on Sun­day. 
“Seton Hall’s a pretty good team,” Klazura said. “Once we got on the board, and once we got on the board [again] in the second — it was Seton Hall’s last game of the season — so I think we kind of broke them a little bit once we scored that second goal. We also finished well today. We took advantage of our opportunities instead of getting a lot of them and not scoring one at all.” 
With the win, the Irish clinched the fourth seed in the Big East Blue Division. Had they lost, the Irish would have travelled to St. John’s for the first round of the conference tournament, but now will host Villanova on Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in Alumni Stadium. 
“That’s our next challenge,” Clark said. “If we win that, we would go to South Florida … on Sunday. But we’ve obviously got to beat Villanova first.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at         jmonardo@nd.edu 


Wake 
continued from page 16 
the best care. 
“But I think my philosophy is always about how you finish and not how you start. Clearly our teams have played well in November. You know, each year is a different year.” 
Wake Forest (5-3) will pres­ent a challenge for Notre Dame (5-3) defensively with its sev­eral playmakers, Kelly said. 
“I think [their receivers are] the strength of their football team,” he said. “There’s no question. [Redshirt junior re­ceiver Chris] Givens is a play-
Kubinski 
continued from page 14 
five good scores per round that we need in order to compete.” 
Tuesday thus brought to a close the fall season, as the Irish now enter into a three-month hiatus before the start of the spring season in Feb­ruary. The final tournament proved to be a microcosm of a disappointing fall for Kubin­ski and the Irish. 
The Irish did receive en­couraging performances Tuesday from seniors Max Scodro and Chris Walker, who both carded scores of one-un­der par. Though Scodro lost the opportunity for a high­light round with three bogeys on the back nine, the senior was once again a stalwart for the Irish. 
“Ever since Max won the Big East in the spring, he’s been a much better, more confident player,” Kubinski said. “He’s really a true number one maker. With [redshirt sopho­more running back Josh] Harris and [redshirt senior Brandon] Pendergrass at the running back position they’ve got a quarter­back now with a little bit more experience. Obviously getting the ball to their playmakers is how they call the game. 
“Each and every week we get different players, we get differ­ent skill sets,” Kelly said. “This is a deep and talented group that we’re going to be challenged with on the back end of our de­fense and on our linebacking corps. We’re going to have to ob­viously get the ball out of their hands quickly.” 
Kelly said the focus is on de­feating Wake Forest, rather than developing a “road war­rior” mentality with three of the final four games of the regular season away from Notre Dame Stadium. 
“We’re so far into it right now, you know, that we’re developing in areas that go to winning,” he said. “So we played well on the road. I like our maturity on the road. We’re really focused, so I didn’t talk much about [de­veloping a mentality]. I have in the past with other teams. But I think, you know, nine games into the season, they know what to do and how to do it.” 
The Demon Deacons and the Irish will kick-off in Winston-Sa­lem, N.C., on Saturday at 8 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at              aowens2@nd.edu 
for us where we didn’t always necessarily have one. Other than just a couple rounds, he’s played superbly this fall.” 
Sophomore Niall Platt chipped in with a +1 score on 
the round, making him, other than Scodro, the most consis­tent golfer for the Irish through the two-day tournament. Though he struggled at times during the fall, Platt has come on strong in the 
last couple tournaments and is playing as Notre Dame’s No. 2 behind Scodro. 
“Last year at times he was our number two, and I think a lot of his issues at the beginning of this year were due to the lengths of the courses we were playing and the conditions,” Kubinski said. “But he’s played a lot better of late.” 
Junior Paul McNamara and se­nior Tom Usher rounded out the five for the Irish with scores of +6 and +7 respectively. For Usher, who tied for the Big East indi­vidual championship title in 2010, the match ended a rough fall that 
“We’re looking to improve over the break and get ready for the spring. The offseason is arriving at a pretty good time for us.” 
Jim Kubinski Irish coach 
saw the senior try to recover from a hand in­jury sustained in the spring and imple­ment changes to his swing in the midst of a demanding schedule. 
With time now to re­group, Kubin­ski hopes that the offseason 
will give his team some needed rest and time for improvement 
“For Tom and for all of us, we’re looking to improve over the break and get ready for the spring,” Ku­binski said. “The offseason is ar­riving at a pretty good time for us.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at                 ckelly17@nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 2, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Wednesday, November 2, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly’s philosophy lies at the heart of late-season success 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Following a 56-14 thump­ing of Navy on Saturday, Notre Dame begins its final third of the season at Wake Forest aim­ing to continue the success of Brian Kelly-coached teams in November. 
The Irish coach, who is 21-6 in his last 27 games in Novem­ber and December, currently boasts a 13-game winning streak in November, a stretch that includes a 3-0 finish to the 2010 regular season. 
“I think if you’re mentally strong in November, your body feels good, your mind is right, you have a chance to carry that over on Saturdays,” Kelly said. “So we want to keep our guys fresh. We keep our practices to a minimum. We really try to take care of our guys from an injury standpoint and give them 
see WAKE/page 14 
Mr. November 

MEN’S GOLF 
Notre Dame concludes fall season 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After 36 holes of play Monday at the Royal Oaks Intercollegiate, the Irish sat in 11th place with one round to play in a tough 14-team field. After firing a second-round total of 289 Monday afternoon, the Irish and coach Jim Kubinski were hoping that a strong finish Tuesday could propel the Irish up the leaderboard. 
But at the end of the day and the tournament, 11th place was where the Irish would finish. No. 29 Texas A&M barely edged No. 27 Duke for the outright victory, winning by just two strokes. 
“I was disappointed by our play these past couple days and with our fall season in general.  The whole team is [disappointed],” Kubinski said. “We had a first great tournament in Minnesota, but after that we just struggled to achieve any consistency. We haven’t been getting the four or 
see KUBINSKI/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
McGraw’s squad takes on Canadian champs in exhibition 
By MOLLY SAMMON and we’ve set our goals high,” the Irish on the 12-person Tuesday’s opening exhibition against the Lancers, a new Sports Writer Irish coach Muffet McGraw squad that beat Taiwan 101-game, but throughout the sea-opponent for McGraw. 
said. “The summer especially 66 for the world champion son. “We were not able to get 

The last time the Irish took helped us get better.” title. Three new freshmen join any tape on [the Lancers], so the court, they finished their While most of the team took “Their summer games al-the team in guards Madi-all we have is their stats,” Mc­season six points shy of be-on individual workout re-lowed them to train and play son Cable and Whitney Hol-Graw said. “We’ll just have to coming national champions. gimes over the break, three at a high level,” McGraw said. loway and forward Markisha see how the game goes.” Looking to build upon its sec-members of the Irish squad “They all came back ready to Wright. From Windsor, Ontario, the ond place finish, Notre Dame played together for the United lead the team.” “Because we have so many Lancers (4-1) opened their starts fresh in an exhibition States in the World University With all but one member of returning players, we’re going season Oct. 14 and wrapped game tonight against Wind-Games in Shenzhen, China. last year’s team returning to to let the freshmen take their up their first competitive sor, the reigning Canadian Senior guard Natalie Novosel, play for the Irish, a similar-time and learn,” McGraw said. weekend with three wins and national champion, at the junior guard Skylar Diggins looking squad and momen-At the top of the preseason the top spot at the Darcel Purcell Pavilion. and fifth-year senior forward tum from last season’s suc-Big East rankings, the Irish 
“We have lot of confidence Devereaux Peters represented cess should help not only in will begin competitive play see CANADA/page 12 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Abromaitis, Atkins lead ND to win 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
It was a night of familiar fac­es for the Irish in their first ex­hibition game of the 2011-2012 campaign. 
The three active players on Notre Dame’s roster who saw significant playing time last season combined for just over two-thirds of the Irish points in their 90-72 victory over NAIA opponent St. Xavier Tuesday night. 
Fifth-year forward Tim Abro­maitis led all Irish scorers with 28 points, including three bas­kets on nine attempts from 
see OPENER/page 12 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish improve playoff seeding with victory 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After stumbling against West Virginia on Saturday, the Irish had to deliver in the regular season finale against Seton Hall to improve their positioning for the postseason. The Irish faithful can now breathe easily. Notre Dame delivered in a big way, racking up goal after goal in a 4-0 rout of the Pirates. 
No. 19 Notre Dame (9-4-4, 5-3-1 Big East) turned in its best offensive output of the season against Seton Hall (5-11-2, 1-8-0), putting an emphatic stamp on the 2011 regular season, improving the team’s seed for the Big East Tournament and helping to move the Irish toward secur­ing a spot in the NCAA tour­nament. The performance fea­tured an effective attack, but the team was equally impres­sive on defense, Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
“It was a very good perfor­mance,” he said. “I thought we 
see CLARK/page 14 






