the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Former Indiana Senator to speak at Forum 
Year-long discussion of common good and marketplace continues; speech to address role of government 
development of an equitable government contributes to the Conlon said Bayh’s public in the Forum would strength-

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
society, said Ed Conlon, asso-common good.” decision not to seek reelec-en the connection between 
News Writer 

ciate dean of the Mendoza Conlon said Bayh’s political tion in November 2010 came Notre Dame and the state of College of Business and chair-experience at both the state as a result of his growing Indiana. Former U.S. Senator Evan man of the and federal levels make him frustration with the function “It’s a good opportunity to Bayh will speak Thursday W o r k i n g 
well-suited to understand and of government and its role in have a person who is impor­about government’s role in Committee 
assess the challenges and American life. This sentiment tant to the state come to the marketplace, one of the for the 
opportunities that govern-relates to the discussion of Notre Dame,” Conlon said. themes of the Notre Dame N o t r e 
ment has in contributing to the government and the com-“When I talked to [Bayh] Forum’s year-long conversa-D a m e 
the common good and the mon good, Conlon said. about the Forum and what we tion about the global market-Forum. 
improvement of the economy, “[Bayh] was frustrated that had in mind, he resonated place and the common good. “ T h e 
especially in America. the government was no with the topic immediately Bayh, a Democrat who rep-c o m m o n 
“The connection between longer functioning as it and said it’s a great thing to resented Indiana in the good is the 
government and the common should, but because he’s not discuss.” Senate from 1999 to 2011 integrating good should be obvious to running for office, he’s at a In addition to Bayh’s lec­and served two terms as theme for people in that a government point where he can be an ture, a number of other Indiana’s governor, will con-the Forum, so we’ve looked at should improve the quality of honest critic and say what he events will continue the tinue the conversation in this it from a standpoint of the life of its citizens,” Conlon thinks with regard to this Forum dialogue this semester, year’s Forum events. He will marketplace, the professions said. “But the real question is topic,” Conlon said. including Friday’s annual present his views on the role and science and technology so how the government can Conlon said Bayh is an Green Summit, which will of government in relation to far,” Conlon said. “This is an make the best possible contri-important political voice in the common good and the opportunity to look at how butions to the common good.” Indiana and his participation see FORUM/page 5 




Professors rank in top 100chemists 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame professors Joan Brennecke and Prashant Kamat were earlier this month recog­nized in a ranking of the top 100 chemists of the past decade by the Times Higher Education Group. 
The ranking system considers the number of publications a given scientist produced and the number of citations those publica­tions received. Brennecke was ranked No. 45 with an average of 
74.26 citations per composition, and Kamat earned the No. 58 spot with 64.9 citations per com­position. 
Brennecke has been a professor at Notre Dame’s College of Engineering since 1989. Most of her work the Times Higher Education Group consulted was dedicated to developing ionic liq­uids for energy applications. 
“An ionic liquid is a salt much like table salt. However, they are in liquid form and kept at room temperature,” Brennecke said. “What is neat about them, and the feature which is essential to our research, is the fact that they contain no vapor pressure, so they do not evaporate.” 
Brennecke and her team use 
see CHEMISTS/page 4 



Exorcist: Possession is real 

TOM LA/The Observer 
Fr. Jeffrey Grob, an offcial exorcist of the Archdiocese of Chicago speaks at a lecture 
about exorcism Wednesday. 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Demonic possession is “still very real,” Fr. Jeffrey Grob said in a lecture on campus Wednesday night. 
Grob, one of the official exorcists of the Archdiocese of Chicago, delivered a lec­ture titled “Evil and the Healing Ministry of Exorcism” at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
He said he did not choose to become an exorcist but was appointed by Francis Cardinal George, Archbishop of Chicago. He joked about his profession to the full auditorium. 
“Anyone who wants to go into this line of work is out of their mind,” Grob said. “I’m still trying to figure out what I did to the Cardinal.” 
Grob described three causes of demonic posses­sion: through a habit of sin, through direct involvement with the occult and through trauma or abuse. 
In cases of trauma, it’s not the event itself that opens the door to posses­sion but rather the victim’s ability to move forward in the healing process, Grob said, which may create a relationship with “the dark­ness.” 
“I have never seen a case of genuine demonic posses­sion where there was not cooperation on some level,” Grob said. “Remember we have free will.” 
Grob has been an exorcist since 2006 and said he has developed “on some level a sixth sense” for identifying demonic possession. 
He listed the criteria that he uses to identify demonic possession. 
“I’m sure if you’ve seen the movies you’re familiar 
see EXORCISM/page 3 


ND grad to retire fromLogan 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Dan Harshman first came to South Bend as a football recruit for Ara Parseghian in the fall of 1964 and played defensive back and running back for four years, including the 1966 national champi­onship season. 
But he returned to South Bend in 1976 in a role not related to Notre Dame athlet­ics. Harshman began working at the Logan Center, a non -profit 
organiza ­tion that provid es resources for people with dis­abilities in 

Harshman 
the area. 
“It was just by luck,” Harshman, who will retire from his position as president and CEO of the Logan Center in December, said. “We had friends in the South Bend area. I came looking for a job, and I was able to get one. … It’s been home ever since.” 
Harshman became CEO in 
see LOGAN/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student Senate prepares for last month page 3  Men’s basketball wins shootout page 20  Matt Wertz at Legends 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer PAGE 2 Thursday, February 24, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SONG BEST DESCRIBES YOUR LI E RIGHT NOW? 





P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: 
Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 





TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Alan Joseph Alicia Smith Matt Robison Christian Myers Matthew Graphics DeFranks Sofia Iturbe Scene Photo Mary Claire Tom La O’Donnell Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 
Cleaning bill for missing snake on Mass. train 
BOSTON — A woman whose 3-foot-long snake slithered away from her in a Boston subway car and hid there for nearly a month has gotten a hefty cleaning bill. 
Transit officials want Allston, Mass., resident Melissa Moorhouse to pay $650 to cover the costs of dis­infecting and sanitizing the Red Line train to protect pas­sengers from germs such as salmonella that may have been left by a boa constrictor named Penelope. 
Moorhouse had traveled with the snake around her neck and lost it between sta­tions. The snake was spotted on the train earlier this month by a commuter. 
Brian Wysocki  Kallie Drexler  Shelley Kim  Paolo Garcia  
senior  junior  freshman  junior  
off campus  Walsh  McGlinn  off campus  

“‘Hell of a Life’  “‘On to the Next  “‘Most  “‘Pretty Boy  
by Kanye West”  One’ by Jay-Z”  Beautiful Girl in  Swag,’  
the Room’ by  obviously”  
Flight of the  
Conchords”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

The Boston Globe reported Tuesday the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority says some subway riders wrote in with health con­cerns. 
Moorhouse says she’ll pay more attention the next time she takes the snake out in public. 
Brazil woman finds gator behind couch after flood 
SAO PAULO — After flood­waters receded from her home, a Brazilian woman was shocked to find a most unwelcome house guest: a 5­foot (1.5-meter) alligator lying tamely in the living room as her 3-year-old son petted the reptile’s head. 
The animal apparently was washed inside by the high water Monday night, said Luiz Claudio Farias, a captain of firefighters in the north-central city of Parauapebas. 
When the woman went to clean up the following day, she saw the boy playing with something behind the couch, Farias said. It turned out to be a gator. 
Firefighters trapped the alligator and took it to a nearby environmental pre­serve, where they set it free. 
“Cities in this region were built very near rivers and the rain forests, which is why it is not uncommon to see animals like alligators and snakes entering peo­ple’s houses,” Farias said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Speakers from Crivella West, JSTOR and the Catholic Portal will describe and demonstrate text mining and visualization techniques today from 1 to 5 p.m. at the Eck Visitor Center 
Historian and master-flautist Galen Abdur-Razzaq will present a lecture titled “The History of Jazz with Galen” today from 3 to 6 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. His presentation will be followed by a public dinner andconcert from 6 to 9 p.m. at Legends Nightclub. The buffet dinner is free for the first 100 guests. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will hold a screening of the film “Last Train Home” from 7 to 9 p.m. tonight. The film chronicles the harrowing journey of one couple desperate to reunite with their estranged children dur­ing the Chinese New Year. The regular admission is $4 to $6 and $3 for students. 
Former U.S. Senator and Indiana Governor Evan Bayh will be speaking in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. tonight. His lecture “What role do government and politics play in the advancement of the com­mon good?” is a Notre Dame Forum event. Admission is free, but tickets must be reserved in advance and there is a limit of two tickets per peson. 
The Mendoza College of Business will host a prodution of the play “Proof” by David Auburn. It is a play about both mathematis and people. The show begins at 7:30 p.m. tonight. Regular admission is $15 and the student price is $10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
32 25 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 



CORRECTIONS 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday sunday monday 

In the Feb. 23 issue of the Observer, Nicholas Yulan was described as receiving 12 consecutive punches in his Bengal Bouts fight against William Hayman. Yulan threw the punches. In the Feb. 22 issue of The Observer, the headline “University students face felony charges” contained incorrect information. As stated in the article and South Bend Police logs, three students were arrested on felony charges. They were not charged with felonies. 

37 28 HIGH 31 3236 
The Observer regrets these errors. 


34 26 LOW 23 3120 







Thursday, February 24, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


STUDENT SENATE 

Grouppreparesforlastmonth 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate discussed pep rally improvement and student employment reform at Wednesday’s meeting, planning to make strides in these areas before the current student gov­ernment’s term ends April 1. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said the current student government officers will have their closing meeting soon with Game Day Operations in order to finalize next year’s pep rallies. 
“We’re giving them our final thoughts on pep rallies so they can make improvements for next year,” he said. 
Pasquerilla East senator Julie Doherty said there was an excessive amount of waiting at the 2010 rallies. 
“They lasted too long and took up too much time,” Doherty said. “It’s not as fun when you’re just waiting there for a while.” 
Off-Campus Concerns Chair Emily LeStrange said the changes at Irish Green this year were definitely a positive step. 
“It’s a lot more student-friend­ly in terms of players getting involved,” she said. “It’s more open to communicating with students.” 
LeStrange said the unlimited capacity and the stage are both important features of the loca­tion. 
But some senators said the lack of thunderous noise at Irish Green posed a problem. 
“At Irish Green the stage isn’t facing [DeBartolo Performing Arts Center], it faces the street so the sound doesn’t reverber­ate,” Siegfried senator Kevin McDermott said. 

Yiting Zheng, McGlinn sena­tor, said the indoor pep rallies solved this problem by packing many people inside and creat­ing a higher noise level. 
Ideas to bring older students to next year’s rallies included guest speakers, more variety and free food and T-shirts. 
Student body president Catherine Soler also discussed her plan to restructure student employment, especially the Notre Dame Job Board. 
The job board, which can be found through a link under the Student Academic tab on insideND, lists categories of both on-campus jobs, such as in athletics and food services, and jobs in the broader Notre Dame community, such as child care and clerical positions. 
Soler said the current board is rarely updated and hard to nav­igate. 
The Student Employment Office, a division of the Office of Financial Aid, manages the board but does not actively seek out student employment oppor­tunities to post, she said. 

“The current process is each department is sent a newsletter and if they have a job, they can contact the Student Employment Office which then puts it on job board,” Soler said. 
Once a position is filled, it is again the job of the department to inform the Student Employment Office to remove the position from the board. Soler said the departments do not regularly follow-up with this task, which makes the board rarely up-to-date. 
Some senators suggested moving the link to a more visi­ble place. Zheng said allowing students to upload their resumes directly to the site would improve contact between applicants and potential employers. 
With more than 40 percent of students employed on campus, Soler said, the job board should become a more effective tool. 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
Lecture encourages better body satisfaction 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s communica­tion professor Terri Russ encouraged women to believe “[their] bodies are amazing ” at a lecture Wednesday night. 
Russ’ speech, “Beautiful Body Battles or Why Are We All Chasing Unicorns? ” explained why body dissatis­faction occurs and urged stu­dents to fight against it. 
She said women’s negative view of their bodies is called “body dissatisfaction,” an issue that extends beyond the concept of body image. 
“Body image makes it sound like it’s an appearance issue,” Russ said. “When, in actuality, it’s so much more.” 
Her lecture focused on three aspects of female body image: what is natural, what is real and how women know what is natural or real. 
Russ said the woman ’s ideal of the perfect body size is significantly smaller than what is natural — the women’s ideal size is a six, while the man ’s ideal woman’s size is a 10 and the natural body size is 14. 
Women play body battle games with themselves, Russ said, such as “the mirror game,” “the food game” and “the clothing game.” 
“The mirror game” focuses on women’s tendency to pin­point their problem areas when they look in the mirror, she said. 
“Very rarely, if ever, do we step back and look at our whole image … what is most likely in proportion to the rest of our body looks out of proportion [when taken out of context],” Russ said. 
Food games refer not only 


Exorcism 
continued from page 1 
with them,” he said. 
He said one sign is the abili­ty to converse in languages a person did not otherwise know. 
Possessed individuals are also “able to reveal secrets about other people that no one else could know,” Grob said. 
He said demonic possession can also cause extraordinary strength. Grob said he once exorcised a “skeletal elderly woman who five strong men could not hold down.” 
People who are possessed also cannot tolerate sacred images or places, he said. 
“All of these things are par­lor tricks of the devil,” Grob said. “The devil is not on a level with God. He’s a cre­ation and must use what’s there. Demons are very good at manipulating reality.” 
Grob offered advice for pre­venting and avoiding posses­sion. 
“Demonic possession is rare,” he said. “For all the other stuff, what’s needed is prayer and the sacraments. Our Lord gave us these sacra­ments for a reason.” 
Grob said fear and isolation can contribute to possession and he recommended the to eating disorders, Russ said, but also to disordered eating habits. 
Lastly, Russ said women play “clothing games” when they allow clothes to domi­nate their lives. Women often refer to clothing size by stat­ing, “I’m an eight,” she said, when in reality, they should say, “I wear an eight.” 
“Clothing is a pivotal part of who we are and how we present ourselves to society … [but] here’s the dirty little secret of clothing sizes … they have no meaning,” Russ said. “You [become] that clothing number, but if that 
n u m b e r  h a s  n o  t a n g i b l e  
meaning, it says  a  lot about  
a person.”  

Women contribute to each other’s body dissatisfaction, Russ said, through habits such as what she called “the skinny greeting.” This greet­ing includes women telling each other they look great and asking each other whether they lost weight. Though seemingly harmless and positive, Russ said, this question can be detrimental to a woman’s notion of body dissatisfaction. 
Russ also encouraged audi­ence members to take steps toward overcoming body dis­satisfaction. 
“I believe that anything can be changed,” she said. 
Russ said students could eliminate “the skinny greet­ing, ” focus on health and change the way they talk about themselves to work through body dissatisfaction. 
“You have to be your whole self … and embrace that,” Russ said. “Say, and believe, ‘I am beautiful. I am more than my body.’” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Catholic sacrament of recon­ciliation as a means of resist­ing the devil. 
“If we are cooperating with the life of grace, we are pret­ty repulsive to the devil,” he said. “One good sacramental confession is more powerful than any number of exor ­cisms. … In confession, the creature stands before the creator and says, ‘I love you. I need you.’ And the devil can’t touch that.” 
Grob said that a possessed person still has a chance to be saved. 
“As long as there is life in the body,” he said, “there’s a chance for grace.” 
Students at the lecture said they enjoyed Grob’s delivery style and message. 
“I really liked [Grob],” sen­ior Samuel Kaulbach said after the lecture. “He was really down-to-earth. I liked how he was skeptical and did-n’t just spew fear. It was very comforting.” 
Senior Brittani Russell said she liked hearing about the Catholic Church’s means of combating possession. 
“I think it’s really scary to acknowledge that evil exists, but I think it’s important for us to know and to realize that the Church does have avenues to help us with this.” 
Contact Tony Rivera at rrivera3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 24, 2011 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOICATION 
President prepares for state of SGA address 
Chesley hopes transition between new and old administrations will be smoothest ever 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) discussed the end of the cur­rent administration’s term, including the state of SGA address and spring allotments, at Wednesday’s meeting. 
Student body president Rachael Chesley and student body vice president Laura Smith will deliver a state of SGA address at 5 p.m. Wednesday in the Student Center Lounge. The address will 
“We want students to care about their student government and to come to this meeting to really know what we do and what we have done,” Chesley said. 
The next president and vice president, for whom elections are today, will be invited to introduce themselves to the student body at the address. 
“Our goal is to have the smoothest turnover that SGA has ever experienced, from Friday when the new SGA pres­ident and vice president are elected to the end of our term,” Chesley said. “I think it should 
Chemists 
continued from page 1 
these ionic liquids to separate carbon dioxide from flue gas from power plants. 
“We cannot remove carbon dioxide because it is both incredi­bly expensive and energy ineffi­cient,” Brennecke said. “If we continue using current technolo­gy to remove carbon dioxide, 30 percent of the energy would be used from the particular power plant.” 
Brennecke said the ionic liq­uids she uses are less energy intensive, therefore making them less expensive. Instead of using 30 percent of the power plant’s energy with current technology, Brennecke’s ionic liquids use 15 to 22 percent. 
Professor Kamat, a faculty member of the College of Science, focuses his work on light and energy convulsion using mostly nanostructure materials. 
“The first step in controlling carbon emissions is to develop clean energy technology,” Kamat said. “Our research team uses various nanomaterials and assembles them in an orderly fashion to harvest light energy. We use these assemblies to develop next generation solar cells. The goal is to provide cheaper and more efficient ener­gy conversion systems than our current technology.” 
Fifth-year graduate student Kevin Tvrdy, who works with Kamat, said the reason for much of his professor’s success is his emphasis on recognizing new trends within the field of chem­istry. 
“Kamat has the ability to rec­ognize new trends in the fields of both chemistry and chemical engineering before most other people realize those trends,” Tvrdy said. “As a result, our group can do the new and up­and-coming research before everyone else does, an accom­plishment which designates us as leaders.” 
Second-year graduate student Sachidananda Krishnamurthy has worked with both Kamat and Brennecke. 
“They both display a lot of exu­berance and enthusiasm for their work,” Krishnamurthy said. “They provide a great example for their students.” 
Both professors attribute much of their success to Notre Dame. 
“Notre Dame has had several new initiatives including Provost’s Strategic Research Investment (SRI) during the past 10 years to enable researchers to carry out competitive research,” Kamat said. “Interaction with faculty members in other departments, the efforts of both undergraduate and graduate students, and research collaborations with leading scientists outside of cam­pus have all helped us to estab­lish a leading research program here at Notre Dame.” 
“This top-100 list comprises chemists across the world,” Brennecke said. “It says a lot about Notre Dame that we have two professors on such a list.” 
Kamat said that while both he and Brennecke have reached an exceptional milestone, their work is still not done. 
“It is always nice to have new undergraduates and graduate students coming in to our research laboratory,” Kamat said. “These researchers in the future can make a huge differ­ence in meeting the challenge of finding new ways to convert and store energy.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

replace weekly meeting.  the SGA  “As student body leaders, we will talk  be pretty smooth this year.” The transition  
“As student body leaders, we will talk about things we’ve worked on this  about things we’ve worked on this year, things that didn’t pan out, things we’ve  period between administrations affects the financial dead­lines for clubs’  
year, things that didn’t pan out, things we’ve a c c o m p l i s h e d  accomplished and things we hope continue in the future  spring allot-ments. In the weekly t r e a s u r e r ’ s  
and things we hope continue in the future under  under the next administration.”  report, SGA treasurer Meg Griffin discussed  
the next admin- the  deadlines  
i s t r a t i o n , ” Chesley said. “For instance, we would hope  Rachael Chesley student body president Saint Mary’s  the financial committee set. Spring allotment forms, sponsor- 
the next admin- ship and travel  
istration would  grant forms are  

consider holding the finance due March 7. Spring allotment seminar before the allotment appeals are due March 21. forms were sent. That is what “We made [the guideline happened this year, and it sheet] clear and concise,” would have been better had we Griffin said. had the finance seminar prior SGA will send a list of eligible to the sending out of forms.” items for spring allotments and 
Chesley said she hopes there the deadlines for paperwork is a larger turnout for the concerning spring allotments to address than there was at the all club leaders, Chesley said. It open forum held during the fall will also be available on the semester. Forming connections SGA website. to the student body is impor­tant to the administration, she Contact Megan Loney at said. mloney01@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, February 24, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Logan 
continued from page 1 
1978 and said he has seen many events and develop­ments in the past 33 years. 
“So many parts have been rewarding,” he said. “Working with so many different people, from parents and children to even the great staff I work with every day — add up all of these people, and it’s 

“So many parts
been agreat job.” Internati onal The Logan have been Summer Special Center began in Olympics, which 
rewarding.” 
1950, Harshman were held at Notre said. When the Dame and Saint Center celebrated Dan Harshman Mary’s. its 60th anniver-CEO “We had more sary in 2010, the Logan Center than 4,000 athletes 
first board presi­dent returned. 
“He’s 98 and liv­ing in Florida, but he came back and spoke,” Harshman said. 
Harshman said a book writ­ten about the Center for its anniversary, titled “VOICE: Disability and Ability at LOGAN,” showed connections between Notre Dame and the Center. These include student volunteers through the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and the involvement of University presidents. 
“Notre Dame has had some wonderful leaders,” he said. “[University President Emeritus] Fr. [Theodore] Hesburgh even dressed up as Santa Claus one year for the kids.” 
Under Harshman’s leader­ship, Notre Dame and the Logan Center have collaborat­ed on many projects, includ­ing the National Center for Law and the Handicapped, the first legal advocacy center in the country, said Harshman. 

“We’ve always had support from Notre Dame for what we’ve done,” he said. “The Center and the Notre Dame Law School came together [to assist Logan Center partici­pants.]” 
He also led the 
Logan Center dur­
ing the 1987 
and 20,000 volun­
teers. It took a 

whole week,” he said. “It was a great sporting event and a great event for the community. Many say it was the greatest event between Notre Dame and the community. Notre Dame is an important and good friend to Logan.” 
The job isn’t always easy, he said. Creating community awareness of issues pertain­ing to those with disabilities can be difficult sometimes. 
“The hardest part of the job is dealing with state and fed­eral funding,” he said. “It’s not just getting new funding, but dealing with the ups and downs of working with our current funding.” 
Harshman said even though he is retiring soon, he still has much to do, including prepar­ing for a new successor to the role of CEO. The current Board of Directors has put together a search committee, and he said a candidate might be selected as soon as next fall. 
“[The search] is going well but it will take a while,” he said. “It takes an organization like this about a year to find someone. We’re lucky we have a good board.” 
John Firth, chair of the Board of Directors and the search committee, said the planning for a new CEO is the most important thing any Board of Directors can do. 
“We are mindful of the mag­nitude of the task before us and confident that we will find the ideal person to build upon the remarkable legacy Dan is leaving to all of us,” Firth said. “It is important to recognize the valuable contri­butions that Dan has made to this community. There are many families, individuals and business leaders who will tell you that our community is a better place because Dan Harshman has been such an effective leader for Logan.” 
While Harshman said he is excited to spend more time with his family, he will miss the Logan Center. 
“The exciting part is Logan’s future,” he said. “There’s a whole to-do list. It’s always a challenge of public aware­ness, but we’re finding even more opportunities [for the community to hear about Logan]. 
“We’ll keep people thinking about going forward.” 
Contact Tony Rivera at rrivera3@nd.edu 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
center on the theme, “Purchasing Power.” 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business at Mendoza will also host a major conference in par tnership with the United Human Development Studies, took place Feb. 11 and 12 and continued the ongoing Forum dialogue by focusing on the theme, “Unleashing Human Potential: Global Citizens in Pursuit of the Common Good.” 
Conlon also said Mendoza’s Ten Years Hence speaker series, “Business for the Common Good,” provides a 
Nations Global  “This is a course that  unique opp or- 
C o m p a c t a n d t h e U n i t e d N a t i o n s P r i n c i p l e s f o r  picks out themes that are likely to shape the future over the  tunity for stu-dents from all d i s c i p l i n e s t o e n g a g e i n t h e  
R e s p o n s i b l e M a n a g e m e n t E d u c a t i o n titled, “The UN  next 10 years. It brings in people who are experts on the  Forum discus-sion during the s p r i n g s e m e s -ter.  
M i l l e n n i u m D e v e l o p m e n t G o a l s , T h e G l o b a l  subject matter or are highly involved in the issues at hand.”  “ T h i s i s a c o u r s e t h a t p i c k s o u t themes that are  
C o m p a c t ,  a n d  likely to shape  
T h e C o m m o n G o o d . ” T h e conference will t a k e p l a c e  Ed Conlon associate dean Mendoza College of  the future over t h e n e x t 1 0 years,” Conlon said. “It brings  
March 20 to 22  Business  i n p e o p le w ho  

and will address the moral purpose of business in advancing the global econo­my. 
An April event sponsored by the School of Architecture will examine the contribu­tions of architecture to the quality of life in the world, especially the effects of “new urbanism” on life in cities, Conlon said. 
The third annual student-led Human Development Conference, sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Ford Family Program in are experts on 
the subject matter or are highly involved in the issues at hand.” 
Bayh’s lecture, “Government and the Common Good,” will take place Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC). Tickets will be available to the public at the DPAC ticket office one hour prior to the event. Tickets are free but are limit­ed to two per person. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 24, 2011 
LIBYA 

Rebels gain ground overGadafi’scontrol 
Associated Press 
BENGHAZI — The scope of Moammar Gadhafi’s control was whittled away Wednesday as major Libyan cities and towns closer to the capital fell to the rebellion against his rule. In the east, now all but broken away, the opposition vowed to “liber­ate” Tripoli, where the Libyan leader is holed up with a force of militiamen roaming the streets and tanks guarding the out­skirts. 
International momentum was building for action to punish Gadhafi’s regime for the bloody crackdown it has unleashed against the uprising that began Feb. 15. 
President Barack Obama said the suffering and bloodshed in Libya “is outrageous and it is unacceptable,” and he directed his administration to prepare a full range of options, including possible sanctions that could freeze the assets and ban travel to the U.S. by Libyan officials. 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy raised the possibility of the European Union cutting off economic ties. 
Another proposal gaining some traction was for the United Nations to declare a no-fly zone over Libya to prevent it using warplanes to hit protesters. U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said that if reports of such strikes are con­firmed, “there’s an immediate need for that level of protection.” 
The New York-based Human Rights Watch has put the death toll for people killed in the vio­lence in Libya at nearly 300, according to a partial count. 
In Tripoli, Gadhafi’s strong­hold, protest organizers called for new rallies Thursday and Friday, raising the potential for a more bloody confrontation. 
In many neighborhoods of Tripoli, residents set up watch groups to keep militiamen out, barricading streets with con­crete blocks, metal and rocks, and searching those trying to enter, a Tripoli activist said. 
“Mercenaries are everywhere with weapons. You can’t open a window or door. Snipers hunt people,” said a Tripoli resident, who said she had spent the night in her home awake hearing gun­fire outside. “We are under siege, at the mercy of a man who is not a Muslim.” 
The extent of Gadhafi’s control over the country he has ruled for 41 years had been reduced to the western coastal region around Tripoli, the deserts to the south and parts of the center. 
After Gadhafi’s speech Tuesday night, militiamen flood­ed into Sabratha, a town west of Tripoli famed for nearby ancient Roman ruins, and battled gov­ernment opponents who had taken over, said one resident. Around 5,000 militiamen from neighboring towns, backed by army and police units, clashed with the rival group and drove them from the streets, he said. 
But his territory was being eroded. The opposition said Wednesday it had taken over Misrata, Libya’s third-largest city. 
Residents honked horns in cel­ebration and raised the pre-Gadhafi flags of the Libyan monarchy after several days of fighting that drove militiamen from the city, about 120 miles (200 kilometers) east of Tripoli, said Faraj al-Misrati, a local doc­tor. He said six people had been killed and 200 wounded in clash­es that began Feb. 18. 
Residents had formed commit­tees to clean the streets, protect the city and treat the wounded, he said. “The solidarity among the people here is amazing, even the disabled are helping out.” 
An audio statement posted on the Internet reportedly from armed forces officers in Misrata proclaimed “our total support” for the anti-Gadhafi movement. 
New videos posted by Libya’s opposition on Facebook also showed scores of anti-govern­ment protesters raising the pre-Gadhafi flag on a building in Zawiya, 30 miles (50 kilometers) west of Tripoli. The city is locat­ed near a key oil port and refineries on the Mediterranean. The footage couldn’t be inde­pendently confirmed. 
Government opponents were also in control in Zwara, a town about 30 miles (50 kilometers) from the Tunisian border in the west, after local army units sided with them and police fled, said one resident, a 25-year-old unemployed university graduate. “This man (Gadhafi) has reached the point that he’s saying he will bring armies from Africa. That means he is isolated,” he said. 
Gadhafi long kept his army weak and divided for fear of challenge, so in the fierce crack­down his regime has waged on the uprising, he has relied on militia groups, beefed up by fighters hired abroad. Meanwhile, army units in many places have sided with the rebel­lion. 
On Wednesday, two air force pilots jumped from parachutes from their Russian-made Sukhoi fighter jet and let it crash, rather than carry out orders to bomb opposition-held Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city, the website Qureyna reported, citing an unidentified officer in the air force control room. 
One of the pilots — identified by the report as Ali Omar Gadhafi — was from Gadhafi’s tribe, the Gadhadhfa, said Farag al-Maghrabi, who saw the pilots and the wreckage of the jet, which crashed in the desert out­side the key oil port of Breqa, about 440 miles (710 kilometers) east of Tripoli. 
The anti-Gadhafi forces and the mutinous army units that have joined them were consoli­dating their hold on nearly the entire eastern half of the 1,000­mile Mediterranean coastline, stretching from the Egyptian border to Ajdabiya, about 480 miles (800 kilometers) east of Tripoli, encroaching on key oil fields around the Gulf of Sidra. 
The U.N. Security Council held an emergency meeting that ended with a statement con­demning the crackdown, expressing “grave concern” and calling for an “immediate end to the violence” and steps to address the legitimate demands of the Libyan people. 
“The continuing brutal and bloody repression against the Libyan civilian population is revolting,” French President Nicolas Sarkozy said in a state­ment. “The international com­munity cannot remain a specta­tor to these massive violations of human rights.” 
Oil prices rise due to unrest inAfrica 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Oil hit $100 per barrel Wednesday for the first time in 2½ years as the unrest in Libya worsened, and gasoline prices in the 
U.S. climbed to nearly $3.20 a gallon, the highest level ever for February. 
Libya is the world’s 15th largest exporter of crude, accounting for 2 percent of global daily output. 
West Texas Intermediate crude fo r April delivery jumped $2.68, or 2.8 per­cent, to settle at $98.10 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Earlier in the day, prices hit triple digits for the first time since Oct. 2, 2008. West Texas Intermediate has soared 18 percent sin ce Valentine’s Day. 
The national average for a gallon of regular gasoline rose 2.3 cents Wednesday to $3.194, according to AAA, Wright Express and Oil Price Information Service. Gas has jumped 8.2 cents per gallon in the past month and $1.28 in the past year. 
Tom Kloza, publisher and chief oil analyst at Oil Price Information Service, said he expects gasoline prices will continue to rise in the next few months to between $3.25 and $3.75 per gallon as the spring driving season approaches. 
The uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt earlier this month already had markets on edge before protests escalated in Libya, which has the biggest oil reserves in Africa. The rebellion widened Wednesday as pro testers overwh elmed government buildings and advance d around Tripoli, the capital. 
French oil giant Total said it started to wind down its oil operations in Libya, where it produced an average of 55,000 barrels per day last year. That follows similar moves by other oil compa­nies. 
Libya’s biggest oil produc­er, Eni, idled operations that produce 244,000 barrels of oil and gas per day. Spain’s Repsol-YPF and Austrian oil company OMV also suspend­ed operations. Germany’s Wintershall said it shut down operations that produced up to 100,000 barrels of oil per day. Evacuations of oil com­pany employees and their families continue. 
Barclays Capital estimates that as much as 1 million barrels per day of production has been shut down so far. In January, Libya produced almost 1.7 million barrels per day of oil and natural gas liquids, according to the International Energy Agency. 
The production losses will be felt mostly in Europe. Ireland relies on Libya for 23 percent of its oil imports, while 22 percent of Italy’s oil imports are from Libya. The 
U.S. impor ted only about 51,000 barrels per day from Libya, less than 1 percent of its total crude imports. 
The International Energy Agency and Saudi Arabi a have pledged to make addi­tional oil available to cover any shortfall in world sup­plies, but that hasn’t eased tensions in oil markets. 
Larry Goldstein, a director at the Ene rgy Policy Research Foundation in Washington, said Libya’s oil is a high-quality variety that is used to produce products like gasoline, jet fuel and diesel. Some refineries won’t be able to ru n on Saudi Arabia’s lower-grade crude, so a sustained shutdown in Libya could start a bidding war for comparable kinds of crude. 
“That would raise product pri ces immediately,” Goldstein said. 
Analysts are watching sim­ilar protests in oil -rich Bahrain. Barclays analyst Helima Croft said the upris­ing in Bahrain could spill over to the eastern provinces 
of Saudi Arabia. While it proba bly won’t hurt the Saudi’s huge oil-production operations, “it’s going to make a lot of people nerv­ous,” Croft said. 
Major oil stocks rose in Wednesday trading. Exxon Mobil gained $1.63 to close at $87.07. ConocoPhillips added $1.96, or 2.6 percent, to close at $78.57. Chevron rose $1.95 to settle at $102.27. Occidental Petroleum rose 82 cents to close at $102.96. Marathon oil gained $1.47, or 3.1 per­cent, to close at $49.18. 
In other Nymex trading in March contracts, heating oil added 11.3 cents to settle at $2.9166 per gallon and gaso­line gained 12.1 cents to set­tle at $2.8677 per gallon. Natural gas picked up 2.9 cents to settle at $3.936 per 1,000 cubic feet. 
In London, Brent crude added $5.47, or 5 percent, to settle at $111.25 per barrel 
on the ICE Futures exchange. Brent, which is us ed to price oil in Asia, Europe and other global markets, passed the $100 mark on Jan. 31. 


Thursday, February 24, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Ind. Democrats protest bill 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — A political stalemate in Indiana showed no signs of ending anytime soon as House Democrats met privately Wednesday in an out­of-state hotel and Republicans refused to negotiate away their legislative agenda to lure them back. 
While the tactic mimicked one used a week earlier by Senate Democrats in Wisconsin who fled to delay a vote on an anti-union bill, the Indiana Democrats said their protest was not about one GOP-backed proposal but a slate of them. In both states, Democrats don’t have the votes to defeat the proposals, but by not showing up they can prevent the required quo­rum necessary to call the measures for a vote. 
“We want to see a little more cooperation on everything,” Patrick Bauer, the House Democratic leader, told reporters by phone from a hotel in Urbana, Ill. “I know they don’t think it’s necessary, but thank God the Constitution said you have a way of fighting tyranny.” 
Although Bauer declines to list all the sticking points, the vote that sparked Tuesday’s walkout involved Indiana’s “right-to-work” legislation that prohibits union membership from being a condition of employment. The walkout effectively killed that measure, but the Democrats were push­ing to end other aspects of Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels’ agenda, including aggressive education changes such as vouchers, the expansion of charter schools and restric­tions on teacher collective bar­gaining. 
House Speaker Brian Bosma said he talked to Bauer by phone Wednesday morning to tell him, “he needed to get back here.” 
“The negotiation takes place on the floor of the House,” Bosma said. “This isn’t the old back room deals that Rep. Bauer’s used to cutting.” 
Daniels had previously warned the right-to-work bill could become so politically charged that it could kill the chances of other, more impor­tant legislation. He wouldn’t say “told you so” Wednesday, but he did tell reporters he was surprised and disappoint­ed that Democrats simply did-n’t claim the right-to-work issue as a political victory and return to work on other mat­ters. 
“We will not be bullied or blackmailed out of pursuing the agenda we laid in front of the people of Indiana,” Daniels said. “That agenda is going to get voted on if it takes special sessions from now to New Year’s.” 
While the Wisconsin Democrats remain in an undis­closed location somewhere near Chicago, the 30-plus Indiana Democrats were dis­cussing negotiating strategy during a closed-door caucus session at a budget hotel in Urbana, closer to the Indiana border. 
“We thought we might spend a day or two in sunny south Urbana,” joked Democratic Rep. Win Moses 
The three-story hotel is less than two years old, but it sits near Interstate 74 in area with little to offer but gas stations and fast-food restaurants. 
After Bosma drew a standing ovation from Republican law­makers when he said he wouldn’t concede to Democrat demands, union members in the House gallery quickly started booing. Bosma later had the gallery cleared and said he may order it closed during House meetings later Wednesday because of the vocal demonstrations. 
Union groups planned rally events throughout the day at the Statehouse. 
“We’re getting our voices heard, which is our objective,” Indiana AFL-CIO President Nancy Guyott said. “We want to make sure it’s the people’s business that’s being done rather than the business of the large corporate CEOs.” 
The voucher bill faces a pro­cedural deadline Thursday, so if Democrats came back by then it could proceed. Bosma said he hoped that cooler heads prevail in the Democratic caucus and that at least enough members for a quorum would return to the Statehouse soon. 



The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Thursday, February 24, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The campus evolution of walking 
Aerosmith and Run DMC once sang, “Walk this Way.” John Mellencamp sang, “Walk Tall.” Even Unk once sang, “Walk It Out.” 

As I walk back from class, head­phones in, I feel like these Jack Hefferon men are speak­ing to me. My 
Sports 
bike has been 
Production 
buried under a 
Editor 

South Bend snowstorm yet again, and much of the past three gray months have been spent trudging to exotic locales like DeBart, Rolfs and the Pasquerilla Center. 
Over the past year, I’ve felt as if more and more of my life has been defined by this mode of travel, from when I began walking the links as a caddy last summer, to the New York-paced speed at which I blow by my more “chill” California friends on late-night Reckers runs. It seems as if it was almost destiny last summer when the “random” process of room assignments landed me in Carroll Hall (“We’re worth the walk!”), leaving me with plenty of path to cover. 
Looking now, walking seems to be something that defines the Notre Dame experience. We have places we want to walk (the for­bidden steam tunnels), places we refuse to walk (front steps of the Main Building) and places to walk with caution (Lyons Arch, or down­town South Bend). Walking around the lakes can cement a relation­ship with that special someone, and could even lead to a walk down the aisle in the distant future. 
Walks at Notre Dame have many speeds, ranging from the stumble to a Friday night cab, to the late­for-my-orgo-test-that-will-define­the-next-thirty-years-of-my-life power walk, to the near sprint from the football student section to South Dining Hall candlelit din­ners. 
Many of the best moments in my short sprint at Notre Dame have been while walking, whether it be while barefoot, savoring a beauti­ful Friday on South Quad or yelling myself hoarse while walking off the field after Utah, with Touchdown Jesus smiling down on us. I still find myself looking side­ways when I walk by Main Circle, and when I see the All-Stars of Notre Dame (Mary and Jesus and Sorin) align, it reminds me of pic­tures I’ve seen since I was little, and I still can’t believe it: I go to Notre Dame. 
And in the end, what’s the goal of every single student on campus? To walk across a stage at com­mencement, diploma in hand. 
The celebration of graduation may appear to be constantly marching towards us, often at a pace far too fast for our liking. But until then, as U2 once sang, walk on. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
n o t  ne c e s s ar i l y  t ho se  of  Th e  
Observer.  
C o n t a c t  J ack  H ef f e r o n  a t  
wheffero@nd.edu  

Arab world uprisings 
The massive revolutionary protests that have swept across the Middle East in recent weeks have spread like a wild­fire from country to country, inspiring the hopes of repressed and downtrod­den nations and inciting fear in the 
Ryan Williams 
hearts of autocrat­ic dictators throughout the freethoughts Arab world. The popular uprisings have already seen the overthrow of tyrants in Tunisia and Egypt and have critically endangered the oppressive regimes of several others in Libya, Bahrain and Yemen. In addition, the extraordinary courage and organiza­tional capacity of the protestors has spurred demonstrators in such distant places as Zimbabwe and China to stand up and demand democratic reforms in their own countries. Many observers have highlighted the almost entirely unforeseen nature of the protests, which have left many governments, including the United States, fumbling for a response to the rapidly changing situa­tion on the ground. As they work to for­mulate new policies and strategies to address the reawakened Middle East, there are several lessons that American policy makers should draw from this historic upheaval. 
The first is that the United States should never again be caught on the wrong side of a struggle for democracy. American policy makers have long argued that the United States has nei­ther friends nor allies, only interests. For years, Arab strongmen like Hosni Mubarak and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali served American interests well, keeping Islamic extremism at bay and providing a semblance of stability in a volatile region. That these tyrants achieved this stability through intimidation and vio-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
lent repression was immaterial, as the apparent costs of a free society — including a more uncertain supply of oil 
— far outweighed any potential benefits. In light of the sea change that has swept the Middle East in recent weeks, we now know that this strategy was fatally flawed, for it cast the United States as enablers of autocracy and oppression, forcing the administration to explain to protestors why it had supported the very forces of tyranny which were now trying to slaughter them in the streets. 
Some conservative commentators, such as Rush Limbaugh and Glenn Beck, have actually criticized President Obama for not doing enough to support Hosni Mubarak in Egypt, even as a vast majority of his own people forcefully demanded that he step down. They argue that Mubarak and other strong­men like him are allies of the United States that the president is “throwing under the bus,” and that they will likely be replaced by Islamist governments hostile to the U.S. Thankfully, not many reasonable people ever pay much atten­tion to what Mr. Beck and Mr. Limbaugh have to say, and there really is no rea­son for anyone to start now. In reality, American support for oppressive Arab regimes has been one of the primary contributing factors in the rise of the anti-Western sentiments that have per­vaded the Middle East. Demonstrating tangible support for the protestors and embracing the new democratic move­ments is the least the United States can do to atone for its past failures in the region. 
The Obama administration should also recognize that the uprisings in the Arab world present an historic opportunity to pressure Israel to abandon its illegal and unjustified settlement activity and return in good faith to the negotiating table with the Palestinians. The Israeli government now finds itself in the midst of tremendous regional uncertainty and instability, with almost no ability to fore­see how events will unfold in each of the Arab nations surrounding them. Thus, they have an increased incentive to negotiate now, while reasonable govern­ments still hold power in Jordan and the West Bank. Convincing the Israelis of this imperative, and persuading them to drop their preconditions to negotiation, is essential to ensuring a lasting peace in the Middle East and is something that President Obama has a unique opportu­nity to achieve. 
The most important lesson to draw from the recent events in the Middle East however, comes from the protes­tors themselves, and it is one that all Americans can and should appreciate. These demonstrators have proven their willingness to stand in front of water cannons and live bullets, mercenary thugs with clubs and professional sol­diers in tanks, all to attain basic human rights like freedom of expression and the right to a representative govern­ment. They have risen up against their oppressors and risked everything, even death, in order to ensure a better life for their children and their countrymen. This incredible patriotism should inspire us all, and make us think twice about those rights and liberties that we as Americans all too often take for granted. We are incredibly fortunate to live in a nation where freedom and protection are guaranteed, and it is our duty to ensure that all human beings have equal access to these same basic human rights. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you plan to watch the Oscars on Sunday night? Yes, but only to see what everyone's wearing Yes, definitely I can’t, but I want to No way, I wouldn’t ever get that time back Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you scatter thorns,don’t go barefoot.” 
Italian proverb 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Thursday, February 24, 2011 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Condemnation is baseless 
I would like to say a few things “inspired” by Allison Kincaid’s letter (“The whole story behind condemnation,” Feb. 23) on the roots of Catholic condemnation of homosexuality. First, citing Genesis 1 as the root of any Christian moral imperative is questionable in and of itself. Credit where credit is due, you do point out that no one in their right mind would take the first chapter of the Bible literally. But still, even to infer the immorality of homosexuality from a benign clause in such a wholly fictional fable — that is, Genesis 1 — is a distant leap in logic. Listen, I get it. I’m Catholic too, and I have been flooded with Catholic social teachings my entire life just like most people at this school. Gays are evil because when they do the dirty, nature doesn’t let them pop out kids nine months later. You can buy that logic if you want to, but in reality it was scraped together by Christians in an effort to justify their preexisting contempt for homosexu­ality. 
You don’t have to reach for meaning deep inside one of the Bible’s most absurd stories to find out that God, or rather, our Jewish and Christian forefathers hated homosexuality. Right there in Leviticus, next to the passage command­ing you not to wear clothes of more than two kinds of thread (that’s right, you yourself are liv­ing in sin walking around in that comfy Northface jacket), the divinely inspired authors tell us, “You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an abomination. ... If a man lies with a male as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination; they shall be put to death, their blood is upon them” (Lev. 18:22, 20:13). Also, in Paul’s letters to both the Romans and the Corinthians, you can find blatant repudi­ations of homosexuality. He tells us that homo­sexual acts are shameful, against God’s decree and that they will ultimately prevent one from going to heaven (Rom. 1:26–28 32; 1 Cor. 6:9–10). Ok, I’ll grant that our ancestors, who at the time embraced slavery, engaged in polygamy and generally subjugated women, also had a problem with homosexuals. 
What I’m driving at, though, is that clearly there are plenty of passages in the Bible where we are inspired to despise homosexuality. What the Bible doesn’t offer us, however, is any real reason why we should! In my mind, your reason­ing is essentially just like the Creation Stories — fabricated. By all means, derive any logic you want to support archaic, bigoted beliefs about homosexuality. But just understand that no cen­tral Biblical teaching actually supports your per­sonal disdain for gay people’s private acts of love. If anything, the New Testament’s principal teachings compel us to love all of humankind, including those who are born homosexuals (and who, consequently, are also created in God’s image), regardless of their beliefs and actions. Frankly, I find your interpretation dangerous. 
Characterizing any of our brothers and sisters as anything less than worthy of God’s love dehu­manizes them and promotes hate. Remember, “God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in them.” (1 John 4:16). And for the record, I doubt sincerely that God has any more of a problem with homosexuals expressing love in their own private way than he does when you or I do the same. 
Dan Scime 
senior off campus Feb. 23 

Closer reading is necessary 
I don’t usually react to Viewpoint articles in The Observer, but on Feb. 23 I read something so offensive I decided to write a response. In her letter “The whole story behind condemna­tion,” Ms. Kincaid claimed a union between two homosexuals was against God’s plan simply because they can’t procreate, and something about homosexuality somehow being a pagan tradition. I wonder if she realizes Christmas is rooted from a pagan tradition called Saturnalia. Anyways, suggesting that somehow being a homosexual is wrong and saying it’s not in “God’s plan” in a religious university with homosexuals is simply offensive and downright degrading. 
First she claims that the Bible can’t be taken literally, then in the next sentence does the same exact thing she claims people shouldn’t do. Are we to “find meaning” in Leviticus 27:1-7 where it states men are worth more than women monetarily? Or how about Deuteronomy 22:28-29, where a man who rapes a woman can pay 50 pieces of silver to her father and marry the girl? Besides the thousands among thou­sands of outdated oddities in the Bible, why do people find two passages and interpret them in a twisted way that supports their agenda? 
Okay, so let’s say that God’s depiction of a union is simply procreation between a man and a woman. Through that logic, are we to say that a heterosexual infertile couple in a union is as “sinful” as homosexuality? Since they cannot “make babies,” according to Ms. Kincaid’s view towards the world, how is their union justified under God? How about the elderly, who can’t procreate — can they not join in a union? How about the purposely childless? If they choose not to procreate, through Ms. Kincaid’s logic, their union is not in God’s plan. If procreation is the sole determining factor to a rightful rela­tionship, then why even call it a relationship? 
What about love? As a straight male who has several gay friends, it sincerely pains me to see that, in the 21st century, two people cannot express their love for each other without being degraded or mocked in society. Most of my gay friends are religious, and to denounce their love for God (probably the same God you all worship) and label it as second-rate compared to a het­erosexual’s relationship with God is disgusting and contradictory to the main doctrines of the Christian religion. 
If taken literally, the Bible has lots of crazy things that will leave your jaw dropping. My favorite is 2 Kings 2:23-24, where a bald guy summons two bears to maul 42 children. So if you think by taking two simple passages literal­ly can justify an anti-gay agenda, you might want to reread the Bible. 
Ben Kim 
sophomore Alumni Hall Feb. 23 


T-shirt passivity 
Recently, T-shirts with the slogan, “Gay? Fine by me,” have been circulating around campus as a way of showing faith and support for the gay com­munity of Notre Dame. While I believe the senti­ments which prompt the stand to be good, I see the movement as passive and possibly counter-produc­tive to the cause. 
The question of gay rights is a heated issue in this country. It is not one which is settled or one which will be resolved any time soon. In the United States homosexual people are targets of hate and blame who need more than passive acknowledge­ment. Imagine yourself in the civil rights era wear­ing a T-shirt which said, “Black? Fine by me.” “Jewish? Fine by me.” “Irish? Fine by me.” 
Issues of hate are not resolved with statements of general sentiment but powerful conviction set to action. Think of freedom riders, Tiananmen Square in 1989 or even J.C. — real change is not found in protest signs and T-shirt slogans but in the actions which people take. 
As students at one of the most influential univer­sities in the United States we should think of our­selves as future examples, people who will end in high societal positions which will affect the lives of people around us. With this in mind, we should always be trying to set a morally upright and just example; let us remember the golden rule. Don’t say that you are fine with homosexuality, prove it. Help a homosexual friend in the way you would like to be treated in a similar position. Don’t just sign a petition, write one. Don’t just donate, start a charity. 
So wear a T-shirt, but not just because your friends are. Believe in what it says and follow with action. 
Abigail Nichols 
sophomore Welsh Family Hall Feb. 21 
Remembering Gail 
It’s not uncommon for students and alumni of Notre Dame to express the sentiment that Our Lady’s University is like a home away from home. It’s a place where lifelong friendships are forged and memories that last a lifetime are experienced. For members of the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, this feeling of home was enhanced all the more by the Choir’s late, great director and our “surrogate mother,” Dr. Gail Walton. 
For generations of Liturgical Choir and Notre Dame Schola members, Gail was a light in our lives, teaching us much more than just the beauty of the Church’s rich liturgical traditions. Her patient and professional manner guided us to a deeper understanding of the Catholic faith through its timeless music. Despite being a supremely gifted musician and choral director, Gail kept the focus on the liturgy by fostering a prayerful atmosphere for anyone who might hear her choir perform, be it during Holy Week or any other occasion. Indeed, her selflessness served as a powerful example of humility and grace for all of her students. 
For those of us who performed under her capable direction, it’s hard to explain what a great fortune it was to sing for her. When I chat with fellow alumni about her, even now we stand in awe of the way that she could take a group of undergraduate and graduate students from disparate back­grounds, whip them into shape and show them how to make such beautiful music together. Year after year, however, that’s exactly what she did. 
Today, Feb. 24, marks the first anniversary of Gail’s untimely passing. For those of us who knew and loved Gail, Notre Dame will never be the same place without her wonderful presence. And though she is gone, her memory will live on with those of us whose lives she touched. 
Michael McAllister 
alumnus Class of 1998 Feb. 23 
The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Thursday, February 24, 2011 
“The History of Jazz with Galen Abdur-Razzaq”Hesburgh Center Auditorium3 p.m.Free  Project PinkLegends5 p.m.Free admission; all proceeds fromthe event benefit South Bend’s S-O-S Rape Crisis Center  Films and Faith Weekend Browning Cinema, DPAC6:30 p.m. “Ajami” 9:30 p.m. “A Serious Man” $3 for students, $4 for seniors, $5 for faculty/staff and $6 others  Notre Dame Symphonic Band andWinds Performance Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center3 p.m.Free  
Listen to a few jazz tunes, learn about the history of jazz music and enjoy a free dinner at “The History of Jazz with Galen Abdur-Razzaq,” compliments of the Multicultural Student Programs and Services in conjunction with Black History Month. Abdur-Razzaq is a talented flutist and speaker from Montclair, N.J., who has performed for more than 30 years.  Enjoy free desserts to benefit the South Bend S-O-S Rape Crisis Center in honor of Sexual Assault Awareness Week at Pangborn Hall’s event, “Project Pink.” The project features a fashion show, raffle and silent auction. The event will have a performance by the a cappella group Halftime and a spe­cial performance by BlackMagic.  Strengthen your faith this weekend by watching two films sponsored by the Departments of Theology and of Film, Television and Theatre. “Ajami” describes an Israeli community in which different religions coexist. “A Serious Man” details the struggles of a physics professor who undergoes a faith crisis after his wife suddenly demands a divorce.  Spend your Sunday afternoon enjoying a preparation concert for the Notre Dame Symphonic Band and Wind’s upcoming performance at Cleveland’s Severance Hall on May 17. The Notre Dame Symphonic Band and Winds performs domesti­cally and internationally. Take advantage of this free opportunity to see the band’s performance.  
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu  


SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Thursday, February 24, 2011 page 11 


By ADRIANA PRATT 
Associate Scene Editor 

“This just in: Matt Wertz to perform at Legends on 2/26,” Legends’ Twitter account eagerly announced two weeks ago. #SoExciting #LoveHim #NewMusic! 
Wertz, a 32-year-old singer and song­writer from Missouri, is most famous for his sin­gle “Everything’s Right,” which pre­miered on VH1 in 2009. He has hit the road with artists Jason Mraz, Gavin Degraw and Matt Nathanson, among others, and will start a 27-date tour March 25. 
Wertz’s songs have been fea­tured in movies like “My Super Ex-Girlfriend ” and “Employee of the Month,” and one of his latest sin­gles, “Everything Will Be Alright, ” aired on “One Tree Hill” earlier this week. 

After performing at Christian youth group Young Life con­certs, Wertz gained a strong fan base and toured with Jars of Clay. In 2001, he released the album “Somedays” and has since released a number of others including “Under Summer Sun” and “Everything in Between.” 
Wertz’s hit song “Everything’s Right” gained popularity on VH1 in 2009 and helped launch his name onto the mainstream musical charts. Wertz finds the material for his music from life experiences, mostly involving love and heartache. In an interview and performance for Vh1, Wertz laughed as he recalled the whimpering heartache he felt that inspired the song “5:19.” 


Wertz’s most recent album, “Weights & Wings,” will be available March 15. The themes for his new release falls along familiar lines and centers on per­sonal relation­ships, he 
told AOL. 
“It’s the idea that the heavy things in life and the transcen ­dent times are both equally important in propelling us on and through life,” Wertz told AOL about the title of his album, which he said was inspired by the meditation 
book he reads daily. 
With a degree in Industrial Design from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, it seemed unlikely that Wertz would pursue a musical career. However, in college, Wertz developed his pas­sion for music. He began writing 
songs his freshman year and has been per­form-ing for fans since. 
Wertz is taking that passion back to the stage at 10 p.m. Saturday. Jon McLaughlin will be making a surprise appearance with him in his band. After his Notre Dame performance, he’ll get back to work and start his tour, which will include performances with Train and Lifehouse. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 



SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 24, 2011 
NBA 

New Jersey gets Williams in trade from Jazz 
Carmelo Anthony, who was The Jazz were a perennial 
Associated Press 
acquired by the New York contender with Williams, but 

SALT LAKE CITY — The New Knicks as part of a blockbuster his reputation took a hit when Jersey Nets finally landed a deal with the Denver Nuggets. Hall of Fame coach Jerry big-name All-Star in a block-Jazz CEO Greg Miller said he Sloan retired one day after buster trade that gives them made the move because of a clashing with him during a point guard Deron Williams “gut feeling” that he wouldn’t game. and sends rookie Derrick be able to sign Williams to a Sloan, reached Wednesday Favors and point guard Devin long-term deal after next sea-morning at his second home in Harris to the Utah Jazz. son. Illinois, was aware of the trade 
The Jazz also will receive the “If you look at what hap-but didn’t want to say much. Nets’ first-round pick in 2011, pened with Phoenix, Toronto “I have no reaction to what which could be a lottery pick, and Cleveland ... they all lost the Jazz are doing. We wish cash, and Golden State’s 2012 their marquee player and had him well,” Sloan said of first-round draft pick. very little if anything to show Williams. “We wish the Jazz 
“I feel Deron Williams is the for it,” Miller said. “This trade well. Good luck to Deron.” best point guard in the NBA,” allows us to be competitive Miller insisted Sloan’s retire-Nets general manager Billy now and beyond the 2012 sea-ment and Williams’ trade were King said in officially announc-son.” not connected. ing the blockbuster deal Asked how he would be able “There’s no need to make a Wednesday afternoon. to market a team in Salt Lake villain out of this,” Miller said. 
“I spoke with Deron and he’s City without a star, Miller said “Deron is a very competitive, excited about it. He under-with “classic Jazz basketball.” driven individual. Jerry was as stands where we are and “It’s lunchpail, work boots ... well. They undoubtedly had a where we want to go. In this and everybody’s got to over-number of conflicts over the league, you win with point achieve, which we’ve been course of their careers. But guards. Jason Kidd turned this known to do for many years,” this doesn’t directly tie into franchise around when he Miller said. “And who knows, that. These are separate came and we feel Deron can we may have a star player events.” do the same thing.” before any of us realizes it.” Miller reiterated that the 
The Nets now hope Williams Harris, a former All-Star Jazz have always been about have to work our way through 2012 free agent class along will sign a contract extension point guard, and Favors, the structure, order, discipline and it.” with 2008 Olympic teammates with them, which they can No. 3 pick in the draft, were respect. Williams was as shocked as Dwight Howard and Chris offer this summer. If so, he part of the package the Nets “One of the things that will anyone, and was expecting to Paul. would become the face of their were offering the Nuggets all always be the case as long as play at Dallas Wednesday New Jersey has been desper­franchise when they move into season for Anthony. our family has anything to say night. He learned about the ate to make its first score their new arena in Brooklyn “Everybody was talking about it is we will support our deal watching television at the under new owner Mikhail for the 2012-13 season. about getting longer and ath-coach first and players second hotel gym before Wednesday’s Prokhorov. The Nets talked 
The 6-foot-3 Williams was letic and when are you going ,” he said. shootaround, and shared a with LeBron James, Dwyane selected third overall in the to get one of these guys,” said That doesn’t mean new Jazz laugh with teammates initially Wade and Chris Bosh last sum-first round of the 2005 NBA Jazz GM Kevin O’Connor, who coach Ty Corbin isn’t in a thinking it was just another mer and when that failed they draft by Utah from Illinois. He hinted that he may not be done tough spot. rumor. turned their attention to is in his sixth NBA season and dealing before Thursday after-Corbin received the news as Then he officially got word Anthony. They quickly holds career averages of 17.3 noon’s trade deadline. “We got he left for a shootaround in from the Jazz. bounced back from the disap­points, 3.2 rebounds and 9.1 one now (in Favors) and we’ll Dallas, where the Jazz were “I know it’s a hard pill to pointment of missing out on assists. see how he progresses. He’s facing the Mavericks on swallow,” Jazz guard Raja Bell him with Williams. 
In 439 career games, includ-not a finished product but at Wednesday night. said he told a shocked Williams joins the exodus of ing 406 starts, he has shot least it’s somebody we can “My initial reaction is that Williams. “Regardless of what top West players heading East, .466 from the field, .358 from build on.” I’m going to miss Deron. He your relationship was with the following Amare Stoudemire’s 3-point range and .808 from Both GMs said they discussed was a good player for us,” team or fan base when you get move from Phoenix to New the free throw line. In 44 a deal several weeks ago, but Corbin said. “I’ve been with traded, it’s still tough.” York and Anthony’s deal to the career postseason games, it only came to fruition after him his entire time in the NBA Miller said his entire conver-Knicks. The Jazz are only a Williams has averaged 21.1 the Nets lost out on Anthony. as an assistant coach and now sation with Williams lasted half-game ahead of Memphis points, 3.7 rebounds, 9.6 O’Connor acknowledged cash as a head coach for a few about 30 seconds, and he for the final playoff spot in the assists and 1.2 steals. was part of the deal and that games, and we’re going to wished him well. West and will have to try to 
The deal came two days the maximum that can change miss him. I wish him well as Williams was expected to be hold on without their best after the Nets failed to land hands is $3 million. he moves forward, and we’ll one of the headliners of the player. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Caltech snaps record 310-game conference losing streak 
lost every Southern California gram, and this win is another Caltech finished the season 5-of humor about their athletic 
Associated Press 
Intercollegiate Athletic step towards meeting these 20, its best record in 15 years. struggles, but they still celebrat-

PASADENA, Calif. — Caltech Conference game they had objectives.” The Beavers went 0-25 last sea-ed at the Braun Athletic Center ended its 310-game conference played since Jan. 23, 1985. Caltech is a famed private son and hadn’t won more than after Occidental missed its des­losing streak in men’s basketball “I hope that everyone who has research university with a heavy one game in any of their previous peration shot at the buzzer. Tuesday night, beating participated in Caltech men’s emphasis on science and engi-eight seasons — but back in Not everything is looking up Occidental College 46-45 in its basketball is able to celebrate a neering. The school has just 950 2007, Caltech ended an NCAA-athletically at Caltech: The season finale. little bit tonight,” Caltech coach undergraduates and doesn’t give record 207-game losing streak women’s basketball team fin-
Ryan Elmquist hit the go-ahead Oliver Eslinger said. “We still out athletic scholarships, but 31 with a victory over Bard College ished its season 0-25, losing to free throw with 3 seconds left for have goals and aspirations that alumni and faculty have won the of New York. Occidental 82-35 on Tuesday the Division III Beavers, who had we want to accomplish as a pro-Nobel Prize. The Beavers have a great sense night. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
ND/SMC couple in Dallas, Texas seeks full-time nanny for 15 months beginning June 2011. 
If interested, please email 
hdawson1@hotmail.com. ——————————————— 

FOR SALE 
HOUSE FOR SALE $380,000 3 bedroom/3.5 bath builders show­case home is loaded with thou­sands in extras that you must see to believe. 
Located just minutes from Notre Dame in a villa style community this unbelievably beautiful ranch is cen­trally located to dining and shop­ping. ——————————————— Call Ron at 574-261-0939 for more information and to schedule a show­ing. ——————————————— Stop Renting -
Invest your money! 
3 bedrooms, 2 baths, all appliances, 
jillrobinson@century21abbey.com. 574-250-9980 ——————————————— 
FOR RENT 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: House for rent for graduation/JPW/weddings,football, etc. Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons-walk to everything-safe family oriented street. 
Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for additional info and photos ——————————————— OFF-CAMPUS Housing. 
Best luxury options at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings, Oak Hill and North Shore Club. 
CES Property Management. 
Call 574-298-4206, www.cespm.info ——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu ———————————————— 
NOTICES 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
———————————————— 

Thursday, February 24, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 

Pacers win on late dunk; Sixers drop Wizards 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana Pacers picked up right where they left off before the All-Star break. 
With Brandon Rush providing late-game dramatics, and sec-ond-year forward Tyler Hansbrough scoring 21 points, the Pacers remained one of the NBA’s hottest February teams with a 102-101 victory over the Detroit Pistons on Wednesday 
night. Granger drew a double-team courage tonight,” Pistons coach “They’re not all going to be and found Rush — who scored John Kuester said. “We faced a 
pretty,” Pacers interim coach nine points starting for injured team that was scrappy. In the 
Frank Vogel said. “Sometimes Mike Dunleavy — for a dunk in second half, I thought we did an 
you have to grind it out and get traffic with 5.4 seconds remain-outstanding job.” 
the ‘W.’” ing. Rodney Stuckey drove the The ‘W’ — and Rush’s dra-“We were one play away from lane on the Pistons possession 
matics — came on a late-game winning the game,” said Pistons after Rush’s dunk, but his pass 
dunk. forward Tracy McGrady, who out of bounds secured the victo-With 11.1 seconds remaining, had 10 of his 16 points in the ry for Indiana, which won for 
Austin Daye’s 17-foot jump shot second half. the ninth time in 12 games 
gave the Pistons their first lead The Pistons rallied from a 16-since Vogel took over for Jim 
since the first quarter, but on point second-half deficit. O’Brien in late January. 
the ensuing possession, Danny “Our guys showed a lot of “That was huge,” said Pacers forward Josh McRoberts, who combined with Hansbrough to give the Pacers 31 points and 13 rebounds from the power forward position. “We are gaining confidence and are learning how to win and close games out. We will be playing top teams and we have to make top plays to win these games.” Hansbrough had a team high 12 rebounds, with eight coming on the offensive end for Indiana, which held a tenuous lead much of the fourth quarter before the final back-and-forth sequence. On Indiana’s game-winning play, Kuester said McGrady played solid defense on Granger, who had 17 of his 18 points in the second half. “What we had done was a great job on Granger,” Kuester said. “He had a great stop and then all of a sudden, we loaded and Rush slashed behind our guys and I didn’t think he could find him, but he did. It was a great play.” Greg Monroe scored seven of his career-high 27 points in the third quarter for the Pistons and Granger scored 10 of his points during the fourth quar­ter. “Greg Monroe had a terrific night,” Vogel said. “We couldn’t stop him.” The victory allowed Indiana to remain one of the league’s hottest teams. The Pacers, who won seven of 10 games before the All-Star break, have won their two games coming out of the break, having won in Washington, 113­96, Tuesday. McGrady had 16 points and and Ben Wallace had 10 



rebounds for Detroit, which shot 48.8 percent and 50.0 per­cent from 3-point range, but lost for a 10th time in 14 games. 
“It felt good to be in the game like that, but I’d rather come out with a win,” Monroe said. “We have to play the whole game like we did the fourth quarter and we might have a different outcome.” 
Point guard Darren Collison had 11 points and six assists, and rookie Paul George added 10 points each for Indiana, which shot 44.2 percent from the field despite making just 3 of 17 3-point field goals. 
“It was a team effort and a big win,” said George, who had two alley-oop dunks in the fourth quarter. “When teams make runs at you and you can answer the bell ring them up, that’s playing NBA basketball.” 
76ers 117, Wizards 94 
The Philadelphia 76ers kept adding to their huge lead while the Washington Wizards were in the process of adding three new players. 
The distraction stemming from the trade was evident on the court, especially during a woeful second half. 
“When word got around, guys kind of lost their concentra­tion,” Washington coach Flip Saunders said. 
Jrue Holiday scored 20 points, Thaddeus Young had 18 points and 10 rebounds and Philadelphia beat the Wizards on Wednesday night. 
Elton Brand and Evan Turner added 15 points apiece for the Sixers (28-29), who eclipsed last season’s win total of 27. Marreese Speights had 14, Jodie Meeks finished with 12 and Andre Iguodala 10. 
Philadelphia, which has won 11 of 15, improved to 18-9 at home. 
“It was a big win for us,” Brand said. “We’re playing with a whole lot of confidence now.” 
John Wall had 21 points and 12 assists for the Wizards, while Trevor Booker tied his career high with 21 points. Andray Blatche had 16 and Nick Young chipped in with 15. 
Washington (15-41), one of the worst teams in the league, has lost three straight. With its season long gone, it made a trade during the game to stock up for the future. 
The Wizards sent guard Kirk Hinrich and forward Hilton Armstrong to the Atlanta Hawks for guards Mike Bibby and Jordan Crawford, forward Maurice Evans and a 2011 first-round draft choice. 
“It was a pretty tough thing to hear,” Wall said. “Kirk’s a veter­an guy who taught me an awful lot about NBA basketball. I’ll really miss him. And Hilton was a good friend, too. I wish them both well.” 
Hinrich and Armstrong were on the bench for the whole first half, but never came out of the locker room after halftime. 
“I think when the deadline is over, guys will have a sense of relief,” Saunders said. 
Meanwhile, Iguodala has been linked to a number of trade sce­narios in recent weeks. The trade deadline is 3 p.m. ET on Thursday. 
“I like our team,” Sixers presi­dent Rod Thorn said before the game. “Does that mean we wouldn’t do something if the opportunity presented itself? No, we’ll look at everything.” 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 24, 2011 
MLB 

Wainwright hurts elbow in training 
Associated Press 
JUPITER, Fla. — Adam Wainwright, a 20-game winner for the Cardinals a year ago and the runner-up for the NL Cy Young Award, was sent back to St. Louis on Wednesday for tests on his injured right elbow amid concern that he could be sidelined for the season. 
General manager John Mozeliak said “things do not look encouraging” for the right-han­der, who injured his elbow while throwing batting practice Monday. 
Mozeliak stopped short of say­ing Wainwright would need sea­son-ending Tommy John surgery. 
“I don’t want to speculate, but obviously ligament damage, that’s usually what it results in,” he said. 
The 29-year-old Wainwright began feeling soreness on Monday. Trainers examined him Tuesday and Wainwright flew back to St. Louis to meet with team doctors on Wednesday. 
“It appears to not be good,” manager Tony La Russa said. “We’ll see, though.” 
The news comes one day after the Cardinals learned utility infielder Nick Punto will miss eight to 12 weeks because of a sports hernia that will require surgery. 
Wainwright’s injury is much more significant. Losing him would leave a big hole in what looked to be a stable starting rota­tion heading into camp. Chris Carpenter, Kyle Lohse, Jaime Garica and Jake Westbrook have all had arm surgery during their careers. 
There are few pitchers avail­able on the free-agent market, with Kevin Millwood probably the best known. 
“It’s going to be tough to replace a guy who wins 20 games, but you never know,” first baseman Albert Pujols said. “One of these young kids could step up like Jaime did last year.” 
The 6-foot-7 Wainwright went 20-11 with a 2.42 ERA last sea­son, finishing behind Philadelphia’s Roy Halladay in Cy Young balloting while making his first All-Star team. His 2.93 ERA since 2007 trails only Halladay, and no NL pitcher threw more than Wainwright’s 463 1-3 innings during the past two sea­sons. 
La Russa said he doesn’t believe the injury is related to the sore­ness Wainwright felt toward the end of last season, when he didn’t pitch in September. He said it’s more likely related to minor issues Wainwright had in 1998 and 2004. 



Thursday, February 24, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

Griffn 
continued from page 16 
advantage of his long arms, repeatedly jabbing Frick. It did-n’t take Frick long to respond, however, and he knocked Yi off balance after trapping the Sorin College freshman against the ropes. Yi batted away a power­ful punch from Frick early in the second round, and battled his way out of a dangerous situ­ation after being backed into the ropes. The Siegfried sopho­more again went on the attack at the beginning of the third round, but Yi successfully fend­ed off Frick’s efforts to take control of the fight and was named the winner by unani­mous decision. 
Chris Sarkis def. Evan Wray 
Sarkis advanced by a medical scratch. 
Daniel Hyzak def. James Hasson 
Hyzak got off to a rough start, becoming off balance and hop­ping around before being out on the ropes by the off campus senior Hasson. The off-campus law student Hyzak rebounded, however, throwing some impressive connecting right jabs. Hasson’s agility enabled him to duck Hyzak’s punches before throwing a huge right hook of his own about midway through the second round. The rest of the round was highlight­ed by close-range body shots. A hotly contested third round saw the two fighters exchange jabs before Hyzak was able to con­nect on a couple jabs near the end of the fight. Hyzak earned the right to go to the semifinals in a tough split-decison victory over Hasson. 
Brian “Caesar” Salat def. Jordan Smith 
In a defensive oriented first round full of hands up and ducking, neither fighter was able to get any clean shots on the other. When the off campus senior Smith got put on the ropes in the second round, he was able to escape and land a powerful left jab on the Zahm sophomore Salat. The two right-handers traded a series of left jabs before Salat broke through with a potent left hook. In a close bout, Salat emerged with the split decision win. 
Heavyweight Division 
John “The Broker” Baumann def. Nolan “Caveman” Welsh 
The first heavyweight match of the 81st Bengal Bouts did not disappoint. The tall and lanky off-campus MBA student Baumann used his lightning-quick hands to pound the off-campus sophomore Welsh early on, landing right hook after right hook. In the second round, Welsh tried to flip the script by first bull-rushing Baumann into the corner before throwing – and landing some – left upper­cuts and right jabs. Baumann responded, however, with thun­derous uppercuts of his own, rocking Welsh and his long, flowing locks. The MBA student continued in the third round, unleashing a right hook onslaught that knocked the sophomore’s mouthpiece put and to the mat. Baumann took the unanimous decision to advance to the semifinals. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu, Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu, Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu and Matthew DeFranks at mdefranks@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 
Clay ready to return to field 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Senior Alexia Clay is eager to get back on the field fol­lowing a shoulder surgery seven months ago that ended her 2010 season. 
The Indiana native started her career at the Tennessee before joining the Irish, and redshirted her sophomore season. 
“I chose to transfer here though because Notre Dame softball has always been a good program and they would let me get the education I wanted,” Clay said. “Not to mention the tradition and school atmosphere are unbeatable in comparison to other schools.” 
After starting at catcher her junior year, she suffered a shoulder injury that ended her senior season. Now, as a fifth-year senior, Clay is ready to make an impact on the team once again. 
“I’m feeling really good,” Clay said. “I’ve never had surgery before so it’s kind of interesting seeing how it feels [after rehab]. It feels so much better than it felt before. It’s just nice to be back on the field.” 
Clay’s shoulder has given her trouble for several years. 
“I have struggled with shoulder problems since late in my high school career and it finally caught up to me near the end of my college career,” Clay said. “I played last season injured and was­n’t really able to catch. It also affected my hitting, which was difficult for me because that is my favorite part of the game.” 
Clay said the hardest part about college play is the schedule. 
“We play 56 games in the regular season, then at least five more in postseason,” Clay said. “We travel all over the country to play and we prac­tice about three to four hours a day. Not to mention we have a lot of early morning condi­tioning and lifting sessions, and I don’t think anyone is a morning person at 4:20 am.” 
Even with the grueling schedule, Clay doesn’t regret her choice to play college softball. 
“My favorite part about softball is being able to take batting practice outside late in the day,” Clay said. “It’s really calming to just go hit and enjoy the weather ... Not the February weather in South Bend. I’m talking about the nice warm spring evenings that Fr. Sorin proba­bly saw when he decided to found Notre Dame.” 
Clay is eager to see what her final season will bring to the Irish. 
“We have a lot of great players and things are swing­ing up for us this year,” Clay said. “I’m excited to see where we go and what we do together and I’m excited to be a part of it in my last year. 
Clay thinks that the key to the success this year will be the team’s attitude. 
“I think that our team has a lot of spirit,” Clay said. “We’ve had a lot of power in the past and there are always going to be people that are more talented than you and I think our spirit is something that is going to help us pull through.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
NFL 
League looks at safety rules again 
comments came about 12 hours after the league said it would unveil a revised side­line protocol for concussion testing on Friday. 
After the full committee broke late Wednesday, McKay returned about an hour later to meet with the coaches’ subcommittee. Attendees included Steelers coach Mike Tomlin, Bengals coach Marvin Lewis, Eagles coach Andy Reid, Rams coach Steve Spagnuolo, Ravens coach John Harbaugh and Browns president Mike Holmgren. 
Tomlin, Lewis and Spagnuolo all declined to comment on the discussions following a nearly three-hour session. 
McKay said the No. 1 topic during that portion was play­er fines, though he heard no complaints from coaches — even those who had players openly critical of the league’s increased fines for hits to the head last season. 
“They wanted a discussion and an understanding of the fine system itself and how it all operates,” McKay told The Associated Press. “I’ve been one who individually believes that the fine system works pretty well for us. It’s intend­ed to deter conduct, and I think when you look at the number of repeat offenders we have, it works pretty well for us.” 
Another topic under review is what constitutes a catch. 
The national debate over that rule began in September, when Detroit Lions receiver Calvin Johnson leaped for a catch and got two feet and a knee in the end zone before the football hit the ground and he let it go. It was ruled incomplete, 
The play could have been a game-winner. Instead, Detroit lost 19-14. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The NFL’s competition committee wants football to be a safer game. 
It’s going to take a little while longer to figure out how to do it effectively. 
Committee members spent most of Thursday afternoon meeting in Indianapolis, site of the league’s annual scout­ing combine, and discussed everything from player safety to what constitutes a catch. No formal proposals have been made, and none may be forthcoming until the com­mittee’s next scheduled meet­ing in Florida. 
Clearly, though, protecting players is among the hottest topics on the league’s agenda 
— after collective bargaining agreement negotiations. 
“Every year different tactics come into the game, and guys are taught different ways to play the game,” said Atlanta Falcons president Rich McKay, the longtime co-chair of the committee. “When that happens, I think we have to talk about how we deal with that. Do we have a proposal? Not yet. Do I anticipate one? I sure do.” 
McKay wouldn’t speculate on possible changes, but his 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 24, 2011 
Alphonse Harding ended up earning the unani-Neither fighter could establish mous decision. 
Bennett 
control early in the first round, as both fighters did not land Tyler “Tuna” Plantz def. Rich 
continued from page 17 

many punches. Towards the end “Scooter” Neville Severyn was named the winner of the round, the senior Garcia Both Plantz and Neville came of the rousing bout by unani-began to take the lead against out aggressive, and each landed mous decision. the freshman Harding, with a combos and punches early. As 
series of jabs and combos. At the first round continued, the Greg Bennett def. Daniel “The the end of the round, Garcia freshman Plantz knocked his Conquistador” Balcarcel landed a hard punch to the fellow freshman Neville to the 
Bennett, a junior, and head of Harding, cutting him, corner ropes with a number of Balcarcel, a sophomore, each and postponing the match punches, and caused the refer-took similar styles in the first briefly. ee to briefly stop the fight. round. Both competitors Early in the second round, Early in the second round, attempted numerous large Garcia landed another hard Plantz continued his control, punches, but neither landed uppercut against Harding, cut-landing a series of combos, and many, as both were too far ting him once more, and leading knocking Neville against the apart from each other, with a to the referee deciding to stop ropes. Late in the round, Neville defensive strategy, and the the contest 15 seconds into the responded with a series of jabs round finished even. second round. to make it closer. 
In the second round, Bennett In the third round, Plantz con-came out aggressive, landing a Adrian “Yo Adrian” Moreno tinued the aggressiveness, barrage of punches and pushing def. Paul “Paul from the Hall” knocking out Neville’s mouth-Balcarcel back against the Barron piece after a few hooks. The Macomber advanced due to a Both seniors came out strong, ropes. Balcarcel responded Moreno, a junior, and Barron, delay to clean the mouthpiece medical scratch. with neither being able to gain strongly, landing some jabs of a freshman, each began the seemed to energize Neville, as an advantage early in the first his own, but Bennett ended the first round conservatively. he landed a series of punches Bill “The Italian Stallion” round. Later in the round, round on top, as he took control Toward the middle of the round after that. Plantz’ strong first Straccia def. Matt “Don’t Tell Doran used a few punches and near the end. Moreno landed a big hook and second rounds were more My Mom” Stolze evasive footwork to take the 
The third round lacked the against Barron that cut the than enough to carry him to a In a battle between off-cam-upper hand. intensity of the second as each Alumni resident, briefly stop-unanimous victory, however. pus seniors, Straccia came out Griffin began the second boxer took a careful approach. ping the match just before the swinging in the first round, round strong with a series of Balcarcel landed some jabs late first round concluded. Moreno 192 pounds hammering Stolze with a string jabs. But as the round wore on, in the round, but it was not ended the round with the lead of powerful left jabs. He was Doran began to take control enough to win, as Bennett was in points. Tim “The Brick” Wallace def. also able to avoid many of with uppercuts to the body and awarded the match by split Moreno began the second Pat Handy Stolze’s punches with his quick-combos to the head, eventually decision. round aggressively. However, Wallace opened the first ness and agility, darting and knocking Doran to the ropes 
Barron landed a hard uppercut, round aggressively, but Handy ducking out of the way. The just before the bell. Robert “I’m All Jacked Up on to knock Moreno against the ducked many of his swings. attack only continued in the In the third round, Griffin Mountain Dew” Manfreda def. ropes. Moreno soon countered Handy lunged in for a big punch second round, with Straccia came out aggressive. However, Kevin Kray with another large punch, cut-early in the second round, and showcasing his repertoire with towards the middle of the 
Early in the round, neither ting Barron again. After the fought his way out after being right hooks and uppercuts, forc-round, Griffin injured his ankle. fighter attempted to do too match resumed, a third punch trapped against the ropes. ing the referee to count. The Griffin decided to fight through much, with few heavy punches again caused Barron to get cut, However, his next punches fight, however, continued. In the the pain, but near the end of the thrown. However, as the round and the referee stopped the glanced off the body of his third round, a flurry by Straccia round the referee decided to continued, the sophomore contest one minute and 14 sec-opponent. Both fighters held forced Stolze against the ropes stop the contest, ruling that Manfreda began to take control, onds into the second round, back at the beginning of the before Stolze escaped. With a Griffin was too injured to con-by knocking Kray, a senior, to with Moreno the victor. third round, and it wasn’t until grunt with every punch, tinue. the ropes on three separate the round was half over that Straccia forced Stolze to adjust occasions. 182 pounds “The Brick” landed hits on his headgear on numerous 198 pounds 
The second round began simi-Handy. The extremely evenly-occasions before ultimately larly to how the first round William “The Captain” Paape fought match was decided in grabbing a unanimous decision Daniel Yi def. Eric “What the” ended, as Manfreda knocked def. Matt Enzweiler favor of Wallace by a split deci-victory. Frick Kray into the corner again. Enzweiler made first contact sion. Yi began the match by taking Manfreda continued to hold in what proved to be an evenly Alex Macomber def. Jack Mike “The Bringer of Rain” control of the match, landing a matched first round. The Dillon Johnson Doran def. Pat “Ryan” Griffin see GRIFFIN/page 15 series of punches. sophomore again landed the 
In the third, Kray came out first hit in the second round, but strong, trying to even the Paape was able to escape after match, and landed a few jabs backing into the ropes. “The successfully. He continued his Captain” took command in the strong round by landing some third round, backing Enzweiler uppercuts, but he could not into a corner and deflecting make up enough of the deficit, many of the Dillon resident’s and Manfreda won by split deci-blows. Paape was declared the sion. winner by unanimous decision. 
176 pounds Tom “Son of Ted” Carnevale 
def. Rob “All Gloves No Love” Giacomo Minafra def. Brian Cimino “Half Man, Half Hair” O’Connor Carnevale quickly took com-
O’Connor went in for the early mand of the match by backing hits, by Minafra was the first to Cimino into a corner in the first make serious contact, and the seconds of the bout, and the law Zahm junior was able to dodge student remained stuck in the most of O’Connor’s swipes. The corner for the rest of the com-senior tried to trap Minafra in a petition. Cimino tumbled to the corner in the opening seconds ground after a body shot early of the second round, but the in the second round, and the Zahmbie was the one to land match had to be paused while punches instead. O’Connor was the law student received med-finally able to make contact ical attention later in the round. with his opponent in the third The referee stopped the contest round, but it was not enough to in the third round after Cimino win the match, and Minafra was knocked to the ground by a won by unanimous decision blow to the head, making 
Carnevale the winner. Dominic “Warsaw Urciuoli, a senior, landed Warhammer” Golab def. some combos early in the first Joseph “Bag o’ Donuts” round, to take control, and Sweeney DiPiero, a sophomore, respond-
Golab ducked several early ed with some jabs. However, as punches from Sweeney and the first round continued, went on the offensive, landing Urciuoli landed some big several body shots on the soph-punches and uppercuts, and omore from Siegfried. The sen-gained full control of the match. ior began the second round by DiPiero came out aggressively blocking a punch from Sweeney, in the second round, and landed and took control of the round a few combos successfully. But from there. The “Warsaw as the round continued, Urciuoli Warhammer” remained in con-landed a large number of heavy trol through the end of the third punches. round, repeatedly battering the Urciuoli, not content to stand Siegfried sophomore’s head on back with the lead, came out his way to being declared the aggressively in the third round, victor by unanimous decision. and landed many hooks and 
jabs, to continue his strong per-Bernardo “Blue” Garcia def. formance for the match. He 



Thursday, February 24, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
In this battle of senior fight-the third round saw Iandolo ers, Powers quickly gained an dominate, connecting on six 
Bouts 
advantage with his combination jabs in a row at one point and punch that alternated between eight jabs in a row at another. 
continued from page 20 

Howell’s body and head. In the He also managed to move contact with Labriola in the first round, Powers had his Bishop against the ropes, where third round, but the junior opponent in retreat with this he continued to connect on seemed impervious to the move and delivered many pow-punches. Iandolo won the fight blows, and Labriola was named erful body shots. The second in a unanimous decision. the winner by split decision. round saw more of the same as 
Powers’ random mix between 167 Pounds Ryan Alberdi def. Dan “The body and head punches left Polish Hammer” Jasinski Howell off balance and unable Richard “Mr. Glass” McAvoy 
Alberdi got off to a quick to counter. In the third round, def. Daniel Griess start, immediately going on the Powers’ shots to the face caused McAvoy took control early in attack against Jasinski. The law the referee to stop the bout to the first round, backing Griess student attempted to turn the give Howell an eight-second into the ropes in the first few tables and chased Alberdi into a recovery. When the match seconds. Griess gained momen­corner in the last seconds of the resumed, Powers continued to tum after a wild swipe from first round, but the Sorin dominate and advanced to the McAvoy failed to make contact, College sophomore fought his semifinals with a unanimous and Griess, a freshman from way out of danger. “The Polish decision victory. Keenan, ended the first round Hammer” started the second by landing a blow on the law onslaught from Healy, respond-and land a large number of round on the offensive, but his Mark “Ridin’ Solo” Iandolo student’s forehead. McAvoy ing with a hook that left the punches towards the end of the blows were deflected by def. Patrick “Boom Boom” regained control of the match in sophomore from Duncan round, and earn the unanimous Alberdi. In the third round, the Bishop the second round when he sprawled on the ground. Joe decision. sophomore lunged forward to Iandolo proved to be the backed the freshman into the then closed the first round with try and strike Jasinski, leaving aggressor in the first round of ropes and then into a corner. a barrage that trapped Healy in 170 Pounds him vulnerable to a hook that the fight, connecting on numer-Griess came out strong in the a corner. Joe was knocked off knocked him off balance and ous blows to Bishop’s face. The final round, even backing balance early in the second Connor “The Skeletor” Skelly onto the mat. Alberdi quickly senior used a quick two-punch McAvoy into a corner, but round, and Healy slipped and def. Daniel “Dan Dan recovered and ended the bout combination move to send McAvoy was declared the win-fell just a few seconds later, but Revolution” Chapman with an offensive barrage. The Bishop, a sophomore, into ner of the bout by split decision. Joe regained momentum when Both fighters bided their time judges awarded Alberdi the vic-retreat. In the second round, Jake “One Blow” Joe def. he cornered the Duncan sopho-in the opening seconds of the tory by unanimous decision. Bishop managed to find some John Healy more for the second time in as bout, as Skelly attempted to use 
Robert Powers def. Terry success in landing left-handed The Sorin College sophomore many rounds. Healy began to his considerable arm span to 
“Twinkletoes” Howell jabs to Iandolo’s face. However, Joe was unfazed by the early show signs of fatigue in the make contact with Chapman, third round, and Joe became but the Stanford junior blocked the victor by unanimous deci-most of early jabs. “The sion. Skeletor” opened the second 
round by fending off an offen-Brian “Yeah, Cool Beans” Salvi sive barrage from Chapman, def. William “I Sunk Your and retaliated with a straight Battleship” Hull punch that landed on the side of 
Hull, a senior, came out Chapman’s head. The Stanford aggressive against the law stu-junior dealt a few blows to dent Salvi, landing a few jabs Skelly’s abdomen early in the early. However, later in the first third round, but he was repaid round, Salvi landed a big right with an audible punch to the hook, knocking Hull to the mat face, and “The Skeletor” was and leading the referee to stop declared the winner by unani­the match, with Salvi victorious mous decision. by the referee stopping the con­test. Nick Severyn def. Joseph 
“Send in the Troll” Garrity David “Mountain Man” Cray Severyn waited a few def. Christopher “Fuhaluvus” moments before unleashing a LaCosta barrage on Garrity, who imme-
The junior LaCosta came out diately returned the favor, and in the first round aggressive, the two flew around the ring landing a few successful jabs. trading punches for the rest of The senior Cray responded with the first round. Garrity, a junior some combinations of his own, from Dillon, tried to land the leading to an even first round. first punch of the second round, 
The second round consisted of but he was countered by more heavy punches, as Cray Severyn, who quickly took con-and LaCosta each knocked the trol of the round. Garrity again other back a few times with threw the first punch of the some big hooks. third round, but Severyn 
The third round began evenly. returned the junior’s effort with However, as the round contin-a thunderous blow to the face. ued LaCosta began to tire. Cray was able to take an advantage see BENNETT/page 16 





page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 24, 2011 
Flood 
continued from page 20 
every last ounce of his energy at practice each day, or his almost daily extra workout, he's devot­ing the rest of the time to chem­ical engineering.” 
From the start of his collegiate rowing career, Flood has made an impression. He sat 6-seat in the Novice 8+ that won gold at the American Collegiate Rowing Associate (ACRA) National Championship Regatta. He con­tinued to improve during the offseason and moved up to the Varsity 8+ as a sophomore, and continues to row in the top boat for the Irish. 
“My best experience here at Notre Dame was winning ACRA my freshman year,” Flood said. “It was a very competitive race and a very competitive season, but to get to come out on top in the last race of the year after 
Brooks 
continued from page 20 
the ball inbounds to escape with a win.” 
Abromaitis opened the game with 15 points in the first 6:13, carrying Notre Dame (22-5, 11-4) to an 18-10 lead over the Friars (14-14, 3-12). In the end, though, his 28 total points, along with senior guard Ben Hansbrough’s 32, were barely enough to outdo Brooks’ efforts. 
“[Brooks has] such a great demeanor,” Brey said. “We tried a little bit of everything and just about everyone guarded him. The nice thing that Ben [Hansbrough] did was at least those were two-point shots. I 
played all 40 minutes of the contest. He added five rebounds and four assists to his all-but-solo per­formance. 
Friars guard Vincent Council followed Brooks with 13 
Usher 
continued from page 20 
the challenges of trying to com­pete with teams that compete year round. 
“It’s certainly nice to have a couple months off after the fall season, but we have to get ready for the spring,” Usher said. “That means hard work­outs and travel. We travel to Scottsdale (Ariz.) next week to train.” 
Dedication to his craft was what brought Usher to the United States, and he hopes that same dedication will not only lead the Irish onward to victory, but also give him a shot at a professional career. Having passed up the chance to go pro in Europe to pursue his degree, Usher has his an eye on making a pro tour in the U.S. after grad­uation. 
“Going professional is defi­nitely one of my top goals,” Usher said. “I would love to stay in the United States.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
being the underdog was a great experience.” 
Flood carried the momentum into his junior season, when he qualified to receive a sponsored trip to compete in the World Indoor Rowing Championships. He did not disappoint, finishing first in the Collegiate Lightweight category. Last weekend, he participated in the event again, and actually improved upon last year’s score, earning him top honors again, as well as a fourth-place finish overall and second in the under­23 category. His performance earned him the distinction of being the top American light­weight. 
“I greatly improved on my time from last year,” Flood said. “Right now my 2k time is the fastest of any American light­weight this year.” 
While Flood has already accomplished more than most rowers can dream of, he says he is not yet satisfied. With seven of the top eight rowers back for another season, his goals are not unrealistic. 
“My individual and team goals for the season are the same,” he said. “Our goal is to win every race.” 
As the captain of one of the nation’s top teams and the fastest rower in school history, Flood plans on continuing with the sport after graduation. 
“After graduating, I am going to try out for the national team again,” Flood said. “My short-term goal is to make the squad for either the World Championships or the Pan-American games. Long-term, I hope to continue my training as a resident athlete and ultimately go to the Olympics.” 
If anything can be learned from Flood’s career up to this point, it is to never count him out. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
points of his own. “We got the ball to the right Notre Dame held an 81-70 people,” Brey said. “Ben made 
lead with 4:46 remaining but made just one more shot from “We wanted to get the field, as 
low-post touches and I
Brooks and Providence think that set the tone 
slipped into vari-for us and got us the 
ous zones and sti­
lead.” 
fled Notre Dame’s attack. 
“I’ve been in so Mike Brey many of these,” Irish coach Brey said. “You just have a feeling on the road you are going to have big free throws. That is just a great team win because the game sit­uations we were in, we can’t simu­late those in practice. It’s nice to have them down the stretch.” 
The Irish shot 40.9 percent from 

was afraid of 3s “You just have a free throws in lead,” he said. “That’s just going in.” feeling on the road you that time span, good for our offense. I think Brooks shot leading him to that is why we shot it so well, 
are going to have to
6-of-10 from a career-high because we flattened the 
hold them off.” 
deep and 20-of-point total, defense with low-post touches. 28 overall, hit and the Irish “I’m thrilled to escape with 6-of-10 free made 11 of 16. an 11th league win and stay in 
Mike Brey 
throws and Two of those the race and stay in good posi-
Irish coach 
Weather 
continued from page 18 
While it is hard to think of playing golf — a sport that usually requires a course covering several acres — while confined indoors, the Rolfs Family All-Season Varsity Golf Facility at the Warren Golf Course allows the Irish to hone their skills and stay in tip-top shape, even when the weather fails to cooperate. 
The facility, which the men’s and women’s teams share, houses a pitch and chip area and a practice bunker. in addition to a large putting green. 
“We have one of the best indoor facilities in the coun­try,” senior captain Katie Conway said. “We can really practice every shot imagina­ble from right around the green.” 
The members of the golf team can also perfect their tee shots without having to leave the building. 
“We can hit from inside onto the driving range, which is outside in the snow,” fresh­man Nicole Zhang said. 
The Rolfs facility, which originally opened in 2006, is regularly improved in order to give the Irish every possi­ble advantage. The latest renovation, which was com­pleted last week, added sev­eral new lies and types of synthetic grass to better sim­ulate conditions the team might see on a course during competition. 
Traditionally, northern schools have not been able to compete with the golf pro­grams blessed with warm weather, especially during the spring season following the long winter layoff. But the Irish believe that their winter training will help them defy conventional logic and compete successfully against some of the country’s top teams. 
“We may not be able to play outside, but our facility certainly allows us to stay in top form during the rough South Bend winters,” Conway said. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

to hold them off. You aren’t going to win by 20, especially with a kid like Brooks in a zone which I’ve never seen 
before.” 
Hansbrough 
converted six deep and 56.1 percent overall. Brey said the hot shooting stemmed from their offensive philosophy for the night. 
“We wanted to get low-post touches and I think that set the tone for us and got us the 
misses came with one sec­ond remaining 
on the clock and Abromaitis on the line. After the second miss off the back of the rim, Brooks’ three-quarter court heave flew wide. 
tion in the league.” 
Notre Dame next defends its league position against Seton Hall at Purcell Pavilion Saturday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 24, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Ancient gathering place 6 ID card issuer 
9 Drink whose namemeans “little water” 
14Subatomic particle 15“Rocky ___” 16Mesmerizingdesigns 17Jai alai catcher 18Fool 19Insinuate 
20With 54-Across,opposite of 18­Across 
23Male swan 24Chinese for 
“water” 25Launches 26Part of a 
preconception? 28It's breath-taking 30To be, to Benicio 31Tea option 
33Putting one'sfoot in one's mouth, e.g. 
35Opposite of 32­Down 
40Odysseus saw himasashade in the underworld 

41Gulliver in Lilliput, e.g. 43Mythical monster 45First option 48Ancient Greek vessel 
49Nickname for baseball's Leo Durocher 
51End 53Fish tale,
essentially 54See 20-Across 57Onetime 

Facebook president Parkerand others 
58It may be takenatagun range 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


59Stumped, after“up”61“All the King'sMen”woman 62Big campinginits. 63Send, astoa specialist64Vertical 65NBC fixture since '75 66Prefix with sound 
Down 
1 2 letters 2 Reviews 3 Veal shank dish 
inunristorante 4 March org.? 5 Writer Nin 6 Obsolescent 
alternative to broadband 7 Opposite of 58­Across 8 Woodworkingclass holder 
9 Ostensible backdrop of the2003romanà clef “The Devil Wears Prada” 
10Many aHandel work 11Kind of case 
12Bowl for mixingwine and water in ancient Greece 
13Court figs.21“Oh, I see” 22Worthless matter 23Cape ___ 27World-famous 
institution in Rochester, Minn. 
EUGENIA LAST 
WILL SHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  

Puzzle by Michael Shteyman 
29Ring holder …or 39Mastermind 49Thé cup, maybe receiver? 
42XXX part 50Feature of many 32Much 43“This can't be aring34Flying hazard good” 
52Centipede 36Painter Fra 44Newly fashioned maker
Filippo___ 46Like abody
37Instant temperature of 55Neiman Marcus messaging 98.6° competitorpioneer 47Org. that rates 56L.A.-to­
38“Carmina members of Jacksonville rte. 
Burana” Congresson composer their liberalism 60Time onearth 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute; or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD
SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
JUMBLE
THE MATING RITUAL 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Thursday, February 24, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Brooks and done 
Road trip fnishes  
with win at Providence  
By DOUGLAS FARMER  
Sports Editor  
Irish fourth-year forward  
Tim Abrom ai tis bega n the  
night at a record pace, but it  
wa s Prov ide n c e gu ard  
Marshon Brooks who ended  
the night with the most points  
in single-game Big East histo­ 
ry.  
Still, Notre Dame slipped  
past its host in a high-scoring  
94-93 affair Wednesday night.  
Brooks, the nation’s second- 
highest scorer, entered half­ 
time with 17 points. A second- 
half explosion of 35 points,  
in cludi ng 11 in t h e fina l  
minute, brought his tally to  
52.  
“Marshon Brooks was fabu­ 
lou s t o n ig h t ,” Ir ish coa c h  
Mike Brey said in his post- 
game radio interview. “I’m  
just thrilled we withstood it,  
and made free throws and got  GRANT TOBIN/The Observer  
see BROOKS/page 18  Senior guard Ben Hansbrough looks to pass during an 89-79 overtime win over Louisville Feb. 9 in the Purcell Pavilion. Hansbrough had 32 points in a 94-93 victory over Providence Wednesday.  

CLUB SPORTS 
Flood sets sights on NCAAtitle 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
When Greg Flood joined the Notre Dame club rowing team, he had aspirations to be an elite player on a strong team. Now, though, the Irish senior has even higher hopes — to win a national championship and eventually to compete in the Olympics. 
While a student at Jenks High School in Tulsa, Okla., Flood’s main focus was not even on the sport that he has blossomed in at the collegiate level. Rather, he concentrated on playing baseball. For Flood, however, it has always been about giving maximum effort no matter what the task at hand is. 
“Greg is one of the most focused people I know,” rowing club president Michael Wagner said. “When he doesn't spend 
see FLOOD/page 18 
MEN’S GOLF 

Usher passes up career in England to play for Irish 
years at Oxford University and who dream of a chance to pur-That might be an understate-Kubinski said. “No one’s heart 
By CONOR KELLY 
potentially turn pro in Europe, sue a degree in the United States ment. After seeing a solid was really in it.” 
Sports Writer 

to pursue his degree at Notre while continuing with their amount of action as a freshman, That loss has been a huge Dame. The young man from sport. Usher contracted a scout-Usher, who resides in O’Neill motivator for Usher and the The Oxford program is across the pond did not waste ing service, one often used by Hall, blossomed as a sophomore, Irish, who have their sights set arguably the most prestigious time in establishing his presence Irish men’s soccer coach Bobby nearly winning both the team on not only a Big East champi­study abroad program offered at on the Irish roster. Clark, to assemble a portfolio to and individual Big East champi-onship but also regional and Notre Dame. Though many “In England, there are no col-show to American college coach-onships for Notre Dame. After national championships. Usher aspiring scholars apply, very few legiate sports,” Usher said. “So es. losing the team title to led the Irish into all five tourna­are accepted. One might say my options were either turn pro “It was initially tough to evalu-Georgetown on the 18th green, ments in the fall, posting a 72.93 you would have to be a fool to at 18 or study at university. I ate Tom because of the limited Usher was forced to come back round average while posting a turn down Oxford. didn’t want to have to choose chances we had to see him in a playoff for the individual team-high six rounds with 
Tell that to Tom Usher, the between golf and academics.” play,” Irish men’s golf coach title. under-par scores. With the onset Irish junior golfer from The path that Usher followed James Kubinski said. “But he “It really wasn’t fair to make of winter, Usher acknowledges Bradford, England, who passed to South Bend is one familiar to ended up selling himself and has them come out and play after up a chance to study for four student-athletes across Europe been a huge contributor for us.” that heartbreaking loss,” see USHER/page 18 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Boxers advance to semis 
By MATT UNGER, VICKY 
JACOBSEN, SAM GANS and 
MATTHEW DEFRANKS 
Sports Writers 
160 pounds 
Matthew “It’s Almost Wake Week” Labriola def. Alec “Pretty Boy” MacDonell 
Labriola and MacDonell danced around the ring in an evenly matched first round, but the junior Labriola got down to business in the second round, landing several body shots on the freshman MacDonell. The Sorin College freshman finally took advantage of his long wingspan and closed out the second round with a resound­ing punch to Labriola’s mouth. 
see BOUTS/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Winter weather poses challenges for golfers 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The biggest challenge for Notre Dame in the offseason isn’t practice schedules or conditioning. It’s the daunt­ing South Bend winter weather — a challenge Notre Dame’s southern competitors do not have to address. 
Since a dusting of snow can make a round of golf a near impossibility, long-distance travel remains a fact of life for student-athletes who attend school in the north. Although the No. 15 Irish did not go on a training trip dur­ing winter break like some other varsity squads, the Irish regularly travel to tour­naments held in warm locales during the winter months. This year’s schedule includes stops in Kaneohe, Hawaii; Stockbridge and Athens, Ga.; and Palm Harbor, Fla., in addition to the Central District Invitational in Parrish, Fla., this past week. 
But the team still faces the challenge of finding a way to train productively when they return from competition or risk falling behind their com­petition from schools in warm climates. 
The solution? Practice inside. 
see WEATHER/page 18 







