the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘This is a chance to celebrate’ 
ND joins community to commemerate Robinson Community Learning Center’s 10th year 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
The Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) cele­brated its 10th Anniversary Friday. 
The Center was established under the tenure of University President Fr. Emeritus Edward “Monk” Malloy. 
“This is a chance to cele­brate and recognize that great things happen when good peo­ple pull together their knowl­edge and resources to help the young, old and everyone in between,” Malloy said at a cel­ebration Friday. 
The accomplishments and collaborations of the Center were on full display Friday night at an open house held for the community. 
“It is always important to set ambitious goals, but also important to celebrate our successes,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said. 
Some of the programs based at the RCLC are a Lego Robotics team, an entrepre­neurship program and a youth Shakespeare troupe. 
Charell Lucky, a student that participates in the youth Shakespeare troupe, per­formed Sonnet 40 and a scene from Henry VI. 
“The RCLC is a blessing for me and my family,” Lucky said. 
Take Ten, a violence preven­tion program in local public schools also celebrated. The RCLC is home to the program, which serves 16 schools in the South Bend Mishawaka com­munity, as well as the Center for the Homeless, all Boys and Girls clubs and community centers. 
John Hess, a local principal, received the James A. Kapsa award for his work with Take Ten. 
“Take Ten works best when the principal steps up and is strong and instrumental to making Take Ten a success,” Ellen Kyes, director of the 


Jenkins chosen for commission 
Observer Staff Report 
University president Fr. John Jenkins was recently appoint­ed to a national commission that will examine the future of teaching and research in the humanities and social sci­ences. 
The Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences, created by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AAAS), is co-chaired by Richard Brodhead, presi­dent of Duke University, and John Rowe, chair and chief executive officer of Exelon Corp. The commission includes prominent Americans from the humanities, social sciences, physical and life sciences, business, law, philanthropy, the arts and the media. 
The commission was spurred by a bipartisan request from 
U.S. Sens. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Reps. Tom Petri (R-Wisc.) and David Price (D­N.C.). They presented the com­mission with the following charge: 
“What are the top 10 actions that Congress, state govern-

see JENKINS/page 6 


Take Ten program, said while presenting the award. 
Two members of the RCLC received an award for their participation. Isaiah Crudup won the James A. Roemer award presented to a youth participant that has excelled in the Center’s programs and Alfreda Redding won the Dr. Dale O. Grayson award honor­ing an adult in the RCLC edu­cation programs. 
The Renelda Robinson award, named after the com­munity member whose name also sits over the RCLC, is given to a community volun­teer that promotes learning and relationship building. Bridgett Mitchell received the award and was described as a volunteer who not only does the job, but does it with kind­ness. 
Two members of the Notre Dame community were also honored. Junior Caitlin Kinser 
see ROBINSON/page 6 


Campus heightens assault awareness 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Students can learn about sexual assault prevention and campus resources as part of Sexual Assault Awareness Week, which began Sunday and will con­tinue until next Sunday. 
Elizabeth Moriarty, assis­tant director of the Gender Relations Center, said the week raises awareness of rape and sexual assault in the Notre Dame community, shows support for survivors and highlights education and prevention efforts on cam­pus. 
“We want to give [students] ideas about how we can pre­vent rape and sexual assault from happening and give hope to people that have been victimized,” Moriarty said. “There is a community that wants to help them in their healing process.” 
Moriarty said the campus needs to acknowledge sexual assault and demonstrate care and concern. 
The Gender Relations Center organizes Sexual Assault Awareness Week as 
see WEEK/page 7 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Seventh Generation founder speaks page 3  Fashion by Felicia page 11  Men’s basketball loses to West Virginia page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, February 21, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Amanda Gray Chris Allen Nicole Toczauer Sam Gans 
Caitlin Housley Megan Golden 


Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Ankur Chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 

What do you think Victoria’s secret really is? Rosenfeld: I think that it is that Victoria is really Victor. 

What do you think of the weather outside? Rosenfeld: I think it’s very wet. 
What’s your favorite movie? Rosenfeld: My favorite movie is “It’s a Wondeful Life,” because my family always watches it during Christmas time. 

What is your favorite pick up line? Rosenfeld: None, because pick up lines aren’t good. 
What are you doing for Spring Break? Rosenfeld: I plan on going to LA with Maureen Flaherty to go tan­ning and meet movie stars. 
Hope Rosenfeld 
freshman Ryan 


DAN JACOBS/The Observer An orchestra accompanied this year’s Junior Parents Weekend Mass on Saturday evening. During this mass, students and parents listened to a homily given by Fr. Tom Doyle, vice president for Student Affairs. 
OFFBEAT 

Man arrested for skiing uphill 
JACKSON, Wyo. — A 78­year-old retired doctor was handcuffed and hauled away on a toboggan for ski­ing uphill in Wyoming, but he won’t face charges. 
Roland Fleck of Jackson was arrested the morning of Feb. 5 after refusing ski patrollers’ orders to stop. Jackson Hole Resort officials say avalanche danger and the presence of grooming machines made it unsafe. 
Skiers can get uphill with snow-gripping “skins” on their skis, among other methods. 
The Jackson Hole News & Guide says Fleck was jailed on charges of trespass, interference, unsafe skiing 



Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Student government and the committee on sexual assault prevention will distribute free T-shirts around campus today to raise awareness of sexual assault. T-shirts will be given out 9 a.m. to 9:45 a.m. at the North entrance of DeBartolo, 11 a.m. to noon at the Field House Mall and 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. in the LaFortune elevator lobby. 
An international career night will be held today at 4:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for Internation Studies. It is free and open to the stu­dents. 
Rosette Muzigo-Morrison will lecture Tuesday on “Achieving Peace through Justice: Reflections on International Criminal Tribunals” at 4 p.m. The lecture will be in the Hesburgh Center for Internation Studies and is free and open to the public. 
The Gender Relations Center will host A Time to Heal dinner Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The dinner features students, faculty, and staff speaking about healing from sexual assault. RSVP required. Contact the Gender Relations Center. 
Theatre: “Proof” will show Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $10 for students, $12 for seniors, and $15 regular. 
Fr. Jeffrey Grob will lecture Wednesday on Exorcism in the Catholic Church. The lecture is entitled “Evil and the Healing Ministry of Exorcism” and is scheduled at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

and theft of services. 

Resort officials say they won’t press charges because Fleck’s removal resolved their complaint. Sheriff Jim Whalen says he sees no need for prosecution. 
Knife removed from man’s head four years after injury 
BEIJING — Surgeons in southern China successfully removed a rusty, 4-inch (10­centimeter) knife from the skull of a man who said it had been stuck in there for four years, the hospital said Friday. 
Li Fuyan, 30, had been suffering from severe headaches, bad breath and breathing difficulties but never knew the cause of his discomfort, said the senior official at the Yuxi City People’s Hospital in Yunnan Province. 
Li told doctors he had been stabbed in the lower right jaw by a robber four years ago and the blade broke off inside his head without anyone realizing it, said the director of the hos­pital’s Communist Party committee’s office who would only give his sur­name, He. 
Surgeons worked cau­tiously to remove the badly-corroded blade without shattering it, He said. The hospital’s website also reported the successful sur­gery. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Monday, February 21, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Parents spend weekend with juniors on campus 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
For the past three days, Notre Dame juniors and parents roamed campus to experience events offered by this year’s cele­bration of the annual Junior Parents Weekend (JPW). 
“A lot of families come. It’s like another football weekend,” JPW 2011 chairperson Erin Connors said. 
The weekend began Friday evening, Connors said, with an Opening Gala that featured a cash bar, DJ and photographer. 
“I loved the Gala because we got dinner with our family first and you got to see everyone’s parents,” she said. “People would say, ‘You look so much like your mom or your dad.’” 
Parents and juniors attended 
“It’s an exhausting process, but it’s a treat having my parents in town and it was a lot of fun.” 
Drew Davis junior 
college workshops Saturday morning, Connors said. In the workshops, parents learned about what their sons and daughters have studied the past three years. 
Junior Stephanie Ruas went to the Mendoza presentation with her parents. 
“I introduced them to once of my professors and then we went off to a breakout group for mar­keting,” she said. 
Later, juniors and parents emerged from dorms Saturday evening clad in formal attire for the mass and President’s Dinner with University President Fr. John Jenkins. More than 4,000 people attended, Connors said. Fr. Tom Doyle, vice president for Student Affairs, gave a homily accompanied by an opening and closing prayer by University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy and Ryan Hall rector Breyan Tornifolio. 
Sunday, parents said goodbye at the Closing Brunch where University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh gave a clos­ing benediction. Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Alumni 


“I really wanted to show them was how I spent my time,” she said. “They met all of my friends.” 
As parents returned home, campus activity settled down once again and juniors prepared for the week ahead. 
“It’s an exhausting process,” junior Drew Davis said. “But it’s a treat having my parents in town and it was a lot of fun. 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Association, also gave a farewell speech. 
While activities and academic presentations were major com­ponents of the weekend, Ruas said showing her parents how she lived on campus was the most important part. 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 21, 2011 



College urges students to love their bodies 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
This week, members of Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) are reminding others of the importance of lov­ing their bodies. 
Love Your Body Week was the idea of Saint Mary’s junior Laura Glaub, SGA’s student services commissioner. A communication major and women’s studies minor, Glaub noticed how often body dissatisfaction appeared in her coursework. 
Not long after, Glaub noticed that some of her friends were demonstrating the same body dissatisfactions, and she wanted to make a change. She decided to create Love Your Body week. 
“I want to empower my peers,” Glaub said, “and I want to show them that they are beautiful no matter what.” 
Glaub plans to empower her peers through a series of lec­tures, activities and student pre­sentations. 
Today at noon, Dr. Susan Alexander, Saint Mary’s profes­sor of sociology, will speak on “Disrupting Body Dysmorphia: Media Literacy as a Method of Addressing Women’s Body Image Issues” in conference room A in the Student Center. 
Judy Fean, the Director of Campus Ministry, and Regina Wilson, Assistant Director of Campus ministry will give a lec­ture entitled, “Women and the Church: Father, May I Love My Body?” at 5 p.m. in the same location. 
A Saint Mary’s student will discuss her own struggles with eating disorders at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. She will 
speak alongside of a panel on 
eating  disorders  on  “Biting  
Back.”  
Glaub  said  the  discussion  

would be very powerful. This student has yet to reveal her eating disorder to the general public, but she wants to share her stories with others now. 
The rest of the week is packed with events, including a presen­tation by Connie Adams of the Belles Against Violence Office at 
12:15 p.m. Tuesday in confer­ence room A. 
Also on Tuesday, students are encouraged to relieve stress by laughing with clinical exercise psychologist, wellness coach, and certified laughter leader/laughter yoga instructor Mary Labuzienski at 6 p.m. in conference room a of the Student Center. 
“Mary says we all need fifteen minutes of laughter each day to remain healthy, so I wanted peo­ple to get their laugh in for the day,” Glaub said. 
This event is especially fun and eye opening, Glaub said, because it teaches students “you don’t need to be on a treadmill to love your body.” 
Later that night, Professor Bettina Spencer and Saint Mary’s student Gina Storti will give a lecture, “Love Your Body? Body Image at SMC compared to ND,” at 7 p.m. in Vander Vennet. 
Dr. Terri Russ, a professor of communication studies at Saint Mary’s will give two lectures on Wednesday, one at noon in con­ference room A in the Student Center, and the other at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. Her first lecture is entitled “Mother, May I Love My Body?” and the second is, “Beautiful Body Battles, Why Are We All Chasing Unicorns?” 


Students can attend a Fashion Show sponsored by Flourish at 6 
p.m. Thursday in the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
At 8 p.m., the Student’s Activity Board will show the film “Eat Pray Love” in Vander Vennet. 
The week wraps up with a presentation by Saint Mary’s senior Christina Grasso. Grasso will present her senior compre­hensive project entitled, “The Cult of Thinness in Fashion Industry” at noon in conference room A in the Student Center. 
The presentation will highlight interviews with models and fashion industry professionals Grasso has worked with in the past, and their views on the con­cept of thinness in the fashion world. 
Grasso has interned with Elite Model Management during New York Fashion Week in 2010 and 2011. She also interned with Nanette Lepore at the most recent fashion week in February. 

These internships have altered her perception of the fashion world and its impact on the pub­lic. 
“We only see the finished product — the glossy images of seemingly flawless women,” Grasso said. “What most people do not see, though, is the heavy preparation that goes into a photo or runway show — the hours of hair and makeup and photo editing. 
“Fashion, at its core, is a busi­ness and its purpose is to sell clothing. But somewhere along the line, it has become less about selling confectionary designs and more about selling a body-type as a utopian lifestyle. I am absolutely in love with the fashion industry, but I have to be mindful of my own innate values.” 
Grasso stresses the impor­tance of Love Your Body Week on an all-women’s campus. 
“In today’s society as a whole there is an idea that there is only one kind of beauty, and that perfection is the vehicle to suc­cess and happiness,” Grasso said. “It is in this relentless pur­suit, though, that we find any­thing but. Quirks and so-called imperfections are what make a person interesting, unique [and] beautiful.” 
Grasso also said this week is especially important because it provides an open forum for women to talk about their con­cerns, achievements and aspira­tions. 
SGA will also be distributing T-shirts and buttons in the Student Center today and during Grasso’s presentation at no cost to the students. 
“I don’t want people to have to pay to love their body,” Glaub said. 
All events are free and open to the public. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chous101@saintmarys.edu 



Seventh Generation founder discusses responsible business 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Jeffrey Hollender, co-founder and former CEO of Seventh Generation, brought his ideas about socially responsible busi­ness practices to the Mendoza College of Business Friday. 
Hollender’s lecture, “The Future of American Business,” was part of Ten Years Hence Speaker Series, which explores ideas likely to affect society and business for the next decade. 
Hollender, a career entrepre­neur, started two businesses prior to co-founding Seventh Generation, a company that pro­duces organic cleaning products. He started Seventh Generation with the vision of creating a new kind of company — one focused on being both ethical and sustain­able. 
According to Hollender, these ethical and sustainable practices included employee ownership, radical transparency, organic inputs and products and pay equality. 
Hollender believes in the merits of employee ownership. He said there are many studies and sta­tistics supporting the concept that employees are more productive and engaged when they have some level of ownership in the company they work for. 
Radical transparency is another concept Hollender enacted at Seventh Generation. According to Hollender, radical transparency is a business sharing both its suc­cesses and its mistakes with investors and the public. 
“[Radical transparency] is diffi­cult to maintain,” he said. “Most companies only talk about what they are doing well ... We in the business world usually don’t like to dwell on our mistakes.” 
Organic inputs and products was the center of Seventh Generation’s sustainability com­mitment. They produce toilet paper made from recycled mate­rials, non-chlorine bleach, phos­phate free cleaning products and more. 
Hollender’s concept of pay equality is that CEO’s and other business executives are being paid too much. As CEO of Seventh Generation he limited his pay to 17 times the pay of the lowest wage employee in the company. 
“Let me tell you, you pay a lot more attention to the lowest paid workers when their wage deter­mines your own salary,” Hollender said. 
In 2008, Hollender stepped down after eight years as CEO of Seventh Generation but contin­ued to work for the company. Then, about sixth months ago he was fired from Seventh Generation, which he attributes to disagreements about the direc­tion of the company between himself and the board of direc­tors. 
“[Being fired] is an experience I plan to learn from ... At Seventh Generation I worked to make the company an exception to the rule,” he said. “Now, I want to dedicate the rest of my life to changing the rules.” 
Hollender now works as an author, speaker, consultant and activist. He has consulted with corporations such as Microsoft and Wal-Mart. He is a board member of Greenpeace U.S., the Environmental Health Fund and Verité, a workers’ rights organi­zation. 
Hollender is also co-founder of the American Sustainable Business Council, a coalition of business leaders committed to sustainability and changing busi­ness practices. 
In regards to the current eco­nomic situation, Hollender brought up the high unemploy­ment rate and the growing income gap as major concerns. 
“The income gap here in America is greater than in either Egypt or Tunisia,” he said. “In fact, today one in seven Americans is using food stamps.” 
However, the “rules” were the main focus of Hollender’s assess­ment of the current economic sit­uation. 
“We have a system that pro­vides incentives for businesses to do the wrong thing,” Hollender said. 
Hollender pointed to the exam­ple of America’s third largest pro­ducer of solar panels moving to China because the Chinese gov­ernment invests very heavily in renewable energy technologies. 
He also said that the American government subsidies are hurting producers of organic products. He explained that Seventh Generation toilet paper costs more than non-organic brands because the government subsi­dizes new timber to the point where it is cheaper than recycled materials. 
This problem is mirrored in the retail industry, according to Hollender. Hollender said some retailers tend to mark-up organic products to a greater extent than other products. Hollender said he believes that, until there is parity in pricing, organic products will not be able to compete. However, he believes there is a trend away from this practice. 

“Target, for instance, has done a great job pricing green prod­ucts in parity with other prod­ucts,” Hollender said. 
Government subsidies of petro­leum products are also a big problem, Hollender said. He said he thinks these subsidies should be gradually removed so that there is incentive for more envi­ronmentally friendly alternatives and for a change in consumer behavior. 
“I think that gas should cost six or seven dollars,” he said. “There are many benefits and the only negative is that low-income indi­viduals are most affected; that would have to somehow be off­set.” 
Another problem, according to Hollender, is that society pays for air and water pollution rather than the corporations causing the pollution. 
One concept Hollender advanced is full-cost accounting. According to Hollender, full-cost accounting is the notion that product prices should reflect all costs of production, including environmental, energy and tradi­tional cost factors. 
“If we had full-cost accounting, bad products would cost more and good products would cost less,” he said. “Right now it is the other way around.” 
He pointed to the Mondragon Corporation in Spain, which has had great success with worker-owned cooperative businesses. According to Hollender, this suc­cessful business model is current­ly being used to revitalize busi­ness in Cleveland, Ohio, through the Evergreen Cooperative Development Project. 
According to Hollender, the cooperative businesses in the Evergreen Project are guaran­teed revenue from other member businesses. For example, a hospi­tal pledged to use a local laundry service for all of their laundry needs and to get all of their food from a local greenhouse. 
Hollender said the project has been successful so far because the biggest risk facing small busi­ness is the uncertainty of rev­enue. The guaranteed revenue within the Evergreen Project has allowed many new small busi­nesses to start up. 
As many as 50 other U.S. cities are looking at the Cleveland model, according to Hollender. 
Most of Hollender’s current work is focused on transitioning businesses as they exist now to sustainable business models. He said he sees this as a critical part of solving America’s business problems. 
Hollender finished by calling upon the business students in the audience to work on addressing the types of issues he discussed. 
“The world needs you. It will be up to all of you to help these companies transition to the sus­tainable business models of the future,” he said. “How much of your life are you willing to dedi­cate to solving these problems.” 
Contact Christian Myers at 
cmyers8@nd.edu 

Monday, February 21, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 21, 2011 

Robinson 
continued from page 1 
received the Rev. Don McNeill 
C.S.C. award, which is pre­sented to a Notre Dame stu­dent volunteer, for her dedica­tion to the Shakespeare pro­gram at the center. The Arthur Quigly award is given to a dis­tinguished Notre Dame faculty or staff member. This year’s recipient was Nicole MacLaughlin, a professor of English that partnered youth participants in the Shakespeare troupe and her students. She also received a grant that allowed her to take 25 Notre Dame and 16 RCLC students to Chicago to see Romeo and Juliet. 
“[The RCLC is the] heart and home of the east side,” Jasmine Brown, RCLC adviso­ry board co-chair, said. “We need to be the visionaries of the future and the philanthro­pists of tomorrow.” 

Jay Caponigro, the current Notre Dame director of com­munity engagement and first director of the RCLC, said he is confident the RCLC will contin­ue on strong due to the great people and community that make the center what it is. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
ments, universities, founda­tions, educators, individual benefactors and others should take now to maintain national excellence in humanities and social scientific scholarship and education, and to achieve long-term national goals for our intellectual and economic months, the press release said. Its members will focus on edu­cation, research and the insti­tutions critical to advancing the humanities and social sci­ences in the nation. The com­mission will draw on past research efforts, the experi­ence and expertise of its multi­disciplinary members and data from its Humanities Indicators to analyze the nation’s excel­lence in the humanities and 
social sciences. 
Jenkins was 


well-being; for a stronger, more vibrant  “The liberal arts give us important insight  elected to the AAAS in 2010. Other members  
civil  society;  into our past, present  of the commis­ 
and for the suc­cess of cultural  and future.”  sion are Amy Gutmann, John  
diplomacy in the 21st centu- Fr. John Jenkins  Hennessy, John Sexton, Donna  
ry?”  University president  Shalala  and  

“The humani­ties and social sciences are often seen as hav­ing little application to the real world in which we live,” Jenkins said. “I couldn’t dis­agree more. The liberal arts give us important insight into our past, present and future — in politics, religion, the econo­my, education and other areas of our collective culture — and are integral to being an informed and contributing citi­zen of the world.” 
The commission expects to publish a report in 18 to 24 
David Skorton, 
the presidents of the University of Pennsylvania and Stanford, New York, Miami and Cornell Universities, respectively; Robert Berdahl, president of the Association of American Universities; docu­mentarian Ken Burns; musi­cian Emmy Lou Harris; retired Supreme Court Justice David Souter; actor John Lithgow; director George Lucas; and Charles Vest, president of the National Academy of Engineering and former presi­dent of MIT. 


Monday, February 21, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
may choose to receive the Relations Center initiative,” Committee. She was heavily will not stand for sexual Anointing of the Sick at this Moriarty said. involved in planning Sexual assault, McGrogan said. 

Week 

Mass. Sunday, the liturgies in Assault Awareness Week and These squares will become continued from page 1 Take Back the Night will campus Masses will focus on will speak at the A Time to part of a quilt that McGrogan 
not be part of Sexual Assault healing from sexual violence. Heal Dinner. hopes will be complete by the part of its violence preven-Awareness Week this year, On Tuesday, the Gender “I’m going to be talking Gender Relations Center ’s tion initiative, Moriarty said. Moriarty said. This event Relations Center will host the about how people can over-Festival on the Quad on the The Center recruits student includes a march as a public annual A Time to Heal Dinner come what is sometimes awk-last day of classes. government, clubs and statement against sexual at which community mem -ward about talking about McGrogan said she hopes organizations, athletic teams assault, a speak-out for peo-bers can discuss issues relat-sexual assault in order to Sexual Assault Awareness and academic ple to tell their ed to sexual assault. take an active role in pre-Week will enable survivors of departments to stories and a “A Time to Heal [is] a venting it,” McGrogan said. “I sexual violence to gain a co-sponsor “A lot of times it’s a public gathering unique oppor-think the com-sense of community and take events. celebrating that tunity for peo-munal aspect is a step in their healing 
private and internal

“A lot of people can join ple to hear fac-very important processes. She also hopes 
“I think the
times it’s a pri-issue that people deal together in the ulty, students in something students that have not been 
communal aspect is
vate and inter-with.” fight against and staff speak like a dinner for directly affected by sexual nal issue that sexual assault. about healing very important A Time to assault will gain a better people deal Take Back the from sexual Heal.” understanding of how sexual 
in something like a
Elizabeth Moriarty 

with,” Moriarty Night will be assault from M c G r o g a n assault affects the Notre 
dinner for A Time to 
said. “Trying to assistant director April 28 this their own per-helped plan the Dame community. increase Gender Relations Center year. spectives” Heal.” student govern-Moriarty said students and understanding Moriarty said Moriarty said. ment initiatives faculty are working to make 
of that is one another impor-“Talking about of Sexual Notre Dame a safer place. 
Mariah McGrogan
of the main issues of the tant difference this year is rape and sexu-A s s a u l t “The good news is that we 
co-chair
week.” the Gender Relations Center’s al assault can A w a r e n e s s have the power to make a 
The Gender Relations effort to involve other cam-be very chal -Gender Issues Week. These difference, to stop these Center will host a Mass of pus groups in the events. lenging. [A Committee events include a things from happening and to Healing in Dillon Hall “We’re really trying to be Time to Heal self -defense better support those who Wednesday. This is the first more intentional about is] people hav-class, T-shirt have survived rape and sexu­year that Sexual Assault reaching out to other depart-ing a conversation sitting distributions and the You Are al assault,” Moriarty said. “I Awareness Week has included ments and student groups to around the dinner table. In Not Alone Reception. hope that [survivors] know a Mass at which the liturgy is get them involved [and] to try the Christian community, The You Are Not Alone that there are people here devoted to healing from rape to make this a campus initia-that ’s a pretty important Reception is an initiative in that want to help them ... so and sexual assault. Victims tive instead of just a Gender metaphor.” which student organizations, they know they’re not alone.” 
Senior Mariah McGrogan is residence halls, departments 
co-chair of the student gov-and offices will create quilt Contact Marisa Iati at  
ernment Gender Issues squares to say Notre Dame miati@nd.edu 

EGYPT 

Libyan leader warns of civil war 

Associated Press 
CAIRO — After anti-govern­ment unrest spread to the Libyan capital and protesters seized mili­tary bases and weapons Sunday, Moammar Gadhafi’s son went on state television to proclaim that his father remained in charge with the army’s backing and would “fight until the last man, the last woman, the last bullet.” 
Seif al-Islam Gadhafi, in the regime’s first comments on the six days of demonstrations, warned the protesters that they risked igniting a civil war in which Libya’s oil wealth “will be burned.” 
The speech followed a fierce crackdown by security forces who fired on thousands of demonstra­tors and funeral marchers in the eastern city of Benghazi in a bloody cycle of violence that killed 60 people on Sunday alone, according to a doctor in one city hospital. Since the six days of unrest began, more than 200 peo­ple have been killed, according to medical officials, human rights groups and exiled dissidents. 

Lybia’s response has been the harshest of any Arab country that has been wracked by the protests that toppled long-serving leaders in neighboring Tunisia and Egypt. But Gadhafi’s son said his father would prevail. 
“We are not Tunisia and Egypt,” he said. “Moammar Gadhafi, our leader, is leading the battle in Tripoli, and we are with him. 
“The armed forces are with him. Tens of thousands are head­ing here to be with him. We will fight until the last man, the last woman, the last bullet,” he said in a rambling and sometimes con­fused speech of nearly 40 min­utes. 
Although the elder Gadhafi did not appear, his son has often been put forward as the regime’s face of reform. 
Western countries have expressed concern at the rising violence against demonstrators in Libya. British Foreign Secretary William Hague said he spoke to Seif al-Islam by phone and told him that the country must embark on “dialogue and imple­ment reforms,” the Foreign Office said. 
In his speech, the younger Gadhafi conceded the army made some mistakes during the protests because the troops were not trained to deal with demon­strators, but he added that the number of dead had been exag­gerated, giving a death toll of 84. 
He offered to put forward reforms within days that he described as a “historic national initiative” and said the regime was willing to remove some restrictions and begin discussions for a constitution. He offered to change a number of laws, includ­ing those covering the media and the penal code. 
Dressed in a dark business suit and tie, Seif al-Islam wagged his finger frequently as he delivered his warnings. He said that if protests continued, Libya would slide back to “colonial” rule. “You will get Americans and European fleets coming your way and they will occupy you. 
He threatened to “eradicate the pockets of sedition” and said the army will play a main role in restoring order. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, February 21, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Tackle hugs 
Walking around campus, you see peo­ple huddled in groups, scurrying from building to building. 
You see couples holding hands and friends sharing earbuds, jamming out to music. You hear shouts and screams and laughter between friends. 
I’m always fasci­nated by how we can create bonds like this. 
We show up freshman year with no relationship to 

Nicole Toczauer 
anyone and by the time second semes­ter rolls around, we 
News 
Production 
each have a net-
Editor 
work of individuals 
we relate to. 
From the best friend to the study buddy to that person you always run into in the dining hall, each relationship has its own set of rules, inside jokes and unsaid real­izations. 
Now, humor me with a blast from the not-so-distant past. 
Rewind to August, press pause and observe: 
I’m in Reckers watching a girl tackle a guy with a hug. I see friends hugging. They’re back on their turf, ready for a new year. I think to myself, “Will I have something like that next year?” 
Fast forward to meeting my room­mates: 
We’ve gone through general “Where are you from?” questions and such. Now what? 
Fast forward a bit more to the first snowfall: 
We’re running through frozen Stonehenge, across North’s tundra and into a completely manic state of happi­ness. We get back, pump up the music, and prep for whatever crazy adventure we’ll have next. 
Somehow from that first meeting, these three girls have become some of my clos­est friends ever. 
Our walls are littered with posters we’ve snagged off walls, a bear from the Huddle (it holds crackers) named Carlos and orange streamers strung from the ceiling. We’re an insane, wonderful little family. 
Across campus, I’ve met people and then have found out that their roommate is a pretty cool person. Later I realize that actually, their entire dorm is amazing. It becomes a third home to me (after California and Farley of course!) 
There are people I can’t even remem­ber originally talking to, but have some­how formed a link with. At North Dining Hall, I always say hi to one of the work­ers, Paul. We talk about our weeks; I ask about his walks and he says he’ll pray for my studies. 
How does this happen? When “hello” become “let’s hang out?” When does hanging out forge a relationship so close that nothing needs to be said? Where you can silently communicate complex con­versations in a single second? 
I don’t know. Maybe it begins with a smile, survival of a comedically horrific experience or a quiet moment of appreci­ation. It could be anything. 
But it’s comforting to know that we can revert to a little kid state, that simple per­spective where everyone is a possible friend. 
I’m just thankful that fate, God or pure chance has introduced me to so many wonderful people. I know that next year, I’ll be one of those people in Reckers attacking their friends with hugs. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

The Notre Dame need to belong 
It begins from the very first moment of Freshman Orientation, shortly after you make that first step onto campus and immediately know this is the place for you, and it con­tinues all the way through your four years at Notre Dame. That of which I write is the need to belong, the Notre Dame need to belong. Sure, every human wants to belong Kevin Kimberly to something and be apart of Bursting the something, but Bubble what measures are necessary to truly achieve it? 

I have found throughout the years that at the core, students at Notre Dame are very diverse. We come from thousands of different places and have thousands of different experiences to talk about, but some­how we seem to tuck that away in the midst of our time here. Forming friend groups freshman year, becom­ing comfortable in our dorms and fit­ting in with our section, trying to find that significant other (earlier than we probably should anyways) — all times when we focus on adjusting our beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors to fit those we seek acceptance from. What’s the point? Who are these people coming to know? 
As cheesy and cliché as it may be, is there really something wrong with being who you are? Is it really that different or difficult to be different? Because in altering who you are, you lose who you are; you lose the ‘me’ part of yourself, the meaning behind you. And eventually that person you were becomes lost and this new per­sona takes its place without you even realizing. Of course people change, but to do so for the wrong reasons is the issue. 
Take for example the dorm stereo­types on campus. Let me guess how amazed you are that each dorm seems to have a certain type of guy or girl that fits the mold. Sorry to break it to you, but ResLife’s random placement is not that genius. Dorm stereotypes are not formed by the residents put in but by the residents that come out. What I mean here is that far too often we see that we can become cool or popular and fit in if we act like everyone around us. We see it and we emulate it just like those before us and thus continue the trend. We form the stereotypes, not some random computer genera­tor. 
One way this issue has become amplified here is through the obses­sive use of labels. Too many times we rush to label someone entirely based on their political views, reli­gious beliefs, ethnicity or thoughts on particular issues (and so on). Now, these and many other things certainly contribute to one’s person­ality and who they are, and it is because of this that we are not required to be like everyone else who may share a characteristic with us. For example, and take it from me, I know every white person is not the same as every other white per­son. Nor is every liberal or Catholic the same either. Nor should they be! Our excessive need to use labels again forms the stereotypes on cam­pus; we see people as a name under a certain header instead of that header under their name as a part of who they are. 
Possibly this is not just an issue at Notre Dame; in fact, I would proba­bly take a good guess and say it is not, but I can only speak for this campus. I know on some — well, most — occasions I tend to invoke sarcasm and humor to make my point, but I think this is a serious issue worth consideration by Notre Dame students. The obsessive need to fit in has become such a key com­ponent of campus life that we are not only veering off in the search for who we are but we are depriving others around us. Perhaps the ever so prevalent topics of the lack of diversity or the loss of identity at Notre Dame have to do with … each one of us? Perhaps. 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Story behind condemnation 
In Chris Damien’s article “Acting for love,” (Feb. 16) he mentions the Church’s stance on gay marriage while debating against homosexual love. Here, I will argue against this discrimination and against any mod­ern practice of homosexual condem­nation we find in the Bible. 
It is clear that homosexuality is denounced in the Bible because of its affiliation with pagan activity. The Book of Leviticus contains the most explicit denunciations of homosexu­ality. In both chapters 18 and 20, it is stated that a man shall not lie with another man as with a woman. 
To put this in context, we need to understand these chapters of Leviticus as a whole. Chapter 18 of Leviticus begins with, “You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, … and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan. …You shall not fol­low their statutes. My ordinances you shall observe and my statues you shall keep …” (Lev. 18:3-4). Chapter 20 begins similarly with God distin­guishing His people from those of a pagan god and their worshipping activities. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The man who tries to prove hisbelief superior to the faith ofanother does not know the meaningof religion.” 
Hazrat Inayat Khan Sufist exemplar 
In this larger context, the laws of these Leviticus chapters exist because they set the Hebrew people apart from non-Israelites by their behavior. As the pagan people included homosexual activity in their orgies and religious ceremonies, homosexuality became taboo for the Israelites. The Hebrew God would want his Israelite people to be differ­ent from those around them so that He too would become more distin­guished. To help clarify, keep in mind that the Hebrew word for “holy” — ”kadosh” — means “separate” or “different.” Since many gods were worshipped at this time, a distinctive people would result in a distinctive 
— and possibly superior — God. 
The New Testament also attacks homosexuality with similar reasoning to that of the Old Testament. In Romans 1:26-27, Paul denounces the lust and passion for members of the same sex that overwhelms pagan men and women in their orgies. Yet, a noted difference between this pas­sage and the Leviticus passages is that Paul disapproves of not only male homosexual activity but also lesbian activity. This distinction gives more credit to the theory that homo­sexuality is sinful because of its pagan affiliation. If unfruitfulness were the reason for its sinful nature, lesbian sexual activity would have been condemned in Leviticus as well as gay male activity. Hence, Paul, like the Book of Leviticus, denounces homosexuality because of its connec­tion with pagan worship, not lack of fertility. 

While the Church and Christianity place emphasis on many rules and ways of life that ameliorate society, it appears to me that forbidding homo­sexual love and activity is a trivial law amongst the countless laws in Leviticus that were made to separate the Israelites from pagans. As we don’t follow many of these laws today, I see no reason to believe based on the Bible that homosexuali­ty is an unnatural or detrimental sexual orientation. 
Ethan Bailey 
sophomore Morrissey Manor Feb. 17 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The game of life is the game ofboomerangs. Our thoughts, deeds and words return to us sooner or later, with astounding accuracy.” 
Florence Shinn 
U.S. artist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, February 21, 2011 page 9 
The ring of life 
My heart pounded vehemently against the walls of my chest. I felt it would never stand still again. I tried to align my mind, my body, my heart, to face what I was about to. I had nowhere to stand and nowhere to hide. My heart 
Sukesh Shekar 
told my head, this time no. My head 
Guest 
told my heart, let it 
Columnist 
go. They applied some Vaseline on my face and treated my nose, to help with cuts and blood. They cloaked and hooded me. Yes sir, it was me. I went out back to get out my gun, and yes sir, you haven’t met me. A priest from the missions thanked us and blessed us in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. I took my brother by the glove, stood tall and remembered what we stood for. I wished him good luck and prayed that we walk away stronger men than those who were about to enter the ring of life. On this mind and on this heart, I aligned myself to do what I had to. On my feet I looked out, night has always pushed on day. You must know life to see decay, but I won’t run. I’m scared of what’s behind and what’s before, but this we are — an everlasting vibe. 
Every year the money raised by the Bengal Bouts serves humanitarian ends in country far away. The strong bodies that fight in this ring of life are not much different than the weak bodies that we fight for in that ring of life. Whisk away those petty differences — country, language, color and creed. Strip me down and you shall find that I am no different than you. We both feel the need to eat, breathe, sleep, love, be loved and find meaning. Au contraire, we are the same. We generate hypothe­sis to quell the imagination, assuage our curiosity and relinquish an ill-suited ideal. I am a pacifist; I think it is our true nature. If we were meant to fight, we would have evolved with sharper teeth and talons. Instead, we have evolved with immaculate brains: a hun­dred billion neurons with a quadrillion synapses. We must have evolved to think and I think the only reason we fight in the ring of life is in search of truth. How could I ever validate fighting another man? It isn’t me. Today was dif­ferent though, I was not about to fight another man, but I was going to fight for another man, and that I can fight for. 

It went so fast. I cannot delineate the details because it happened so fast. I did not give up, I faltered but was unafraid. Spare me your judgments; I stand alone in this winter as the clouds obscure my thought. I am on my feet and the water creeps to my chest. Raining down on me as I look over the hill, we shoot until we are still. Into obscurity we fight and bleed, but I will hold on, hold on ‘til judgment comes. I will hold on, I will hold on, I will hold ‘til my head rolls or the bell tolls. I did not win, but how could I have lost? These bloodshot eyes saw no good. Watch what you say — wasted times, broken dreams and vio­lent colors so obscene, my heart knows no reprieve. Fists do not betray, dismay or enslave you, they will set you free. The beauty of a fist is that it is made to be. They said serve God, love God and your friends. Lived and bruised, we are friends. You know me and I know you; oh, man is a funny thing! 
I walked away from the ring having indelibly etched the constitution of my moral fiber. The fears and faults melted away as I know to live my life as it is meant to be. I felt infinite. It is remark­able that we can ever know what we are, but rarely is it possible to deter­mine what we can be. Often, I have to deal with three people: the person I think I am, the person others think I am and then there is the person I really am. The only person I face in the ring is my true self and I find the truth about myself. I was afraid of what I would find in my heart, but I found a truth instead. I am a fighter, not a particularly good one, but I am a fighter. In the ring of life, there is the one who fights and one who does not. I fought today and I am happy I did. I did not fight any enemy either, rather a brother. I was proud to stand with him as we stood by our namesake — The Fighting Irish. 
What would you fight for? The Irish pugilists fight for education, health and subsistence of our less fortunate Bengal cousins. While our cousins may lack a few means, they are not short of spirit. I hope in lending them our sprit, they will lend us their spirit. What are you afraid of? Whatever it is, face it, and you will walk out the other side a better man. In the ring of life, there are no losers. Losers do not make it that far. We beat our bodies and make it our slave so that one day we may stand tall, our heads held high, not ashamed that we lost, but proud that we fought. The Bouts here are the purest form of competition there is, for the purest reasons there are. The man in the arena reigns supreme, but he is not alone in this. We will tell the night when you lose your sight and whisper to you in your corner — as brothers we stand to hold your hand, we are not alone in this. Go to the Bouts and stand by your man in his corner. He is not a timid soul who knows neither victory nor defeat. He stands tall and fights for us all. 
Sukesh Shekar is a graduate student studying chemistry and biochemistry.. He can be reached at Sukesh.Shekar.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Political bias in the academy 
At last month’s Society for Personality and Social Psychology’s conference, University of Virginia social psychologist Jonathan Haidt began his lecture on bias in academia by polling the audience. He 
Joseph 
first asked the 1,000 some-odd Nawrocki members of the 
Guest 
audience to indi-
Columnist 
cate, by a show of hands, who would self-identify as a political liberal. According to him, about 80 percent of the audience responded in the affirma­tive. He then asked who would self-identify as a centrist or libertarian, to which he received a few dozen responses. When Haidt finally arrived at the question of who would self-iden­tify as a political conservative, he saw a grand total of three hands, or 0.3 per­cent of those in attendance. 
Reminding the audience that 40 per­cent of all Americans self-identify as conservative, he observed that this out­come of his audience poll represents “a statistically impossible lack of diversi­ty.” In his subsequent talk Haidt, him­self a moderate liberal, proceeded to argue that scholars in the field of social psychology belong to a “tribal-moral community” that holds certain liberal political values as “sacred.” By “sacred values,” Haidt is referring to those val­ues that “a moral community implicitly or explicitly treats as possessing infi­nite or transcendental significance.” As such, these values “preclude tradeoffs,” and consequently, when we inquire into issues surrounding these values, “we use our reasoning not to find the truth, but to find ways to defend what we hold sacred.” This is a problem, says Haidt, because, “when conservatives are entirely absent (as opposed to sim­ply underrepresented), then there is nobody to speak up, nobody to chal­lenge predominant ideas, and our sci­ence suffers.” 

Haidt reports that among those in attendance at his talk, the response was overwhelmingly positive. One should not find this surprising. From their own research social psychologists are well aware of the risks of group think and the power of perceptual screens. Nevertheless, it is a testament to their academic integrity. 
In the last two weeks, Haidt’s thesis has reverberated far beyond the walls of the San Antonio auditorium in which it was first presented. It has received coverage in many of the most promi­nent media outlets, including the New York Times, the Atlantic, NPR and the Wall Street Journal. Those in the media have been a good deal less sympathetic than the scholars in attendance. Many, such as Paul Krugman, seem to miss the point of Haidt’s argument entirely, and attack Haidt for equating ideology with race and wanting diversity for diversity’s sake. 
Yet Haidt is not arguing that the social sciences should be more recep­tive to conservatives simply because conservatives are under-represented, nor because political differences are analogous to racial differences, but because the presence of more conser­vatives in social science circles would enhance the quality of research. Social scientists, unlike hard scientists, study people and society. In order to perform their science well, social scientists must actually understand the subjects of their research. But if one lives in a “tribal-moral community” that never questions its “sacred values” and ostra­cizes those who hold opinions that would threaten such values, then one rarely has the opportunity to dialogue with or understand those whom one has deemed to be “outsiders.” This becomes particularly problematic when one considers that social scientists spill much ink on the outgroup in question here: conservatives. 
For instance, scan any syllabus for Introduction to Political Psychology and you will find weeks dedicated to ques­tions such as: what kind of tempera­ment leads one to become a conserva­tive?; and what constitutes the “Authoritarian (read: Conservative) Personality.” If the social scientists who conduct such research view conserva­tives as some sort of exotic hold-over from Neolithic times, or, worse yet, the enemy within that must be uprooted in order to make civilization safe for future generations, then one ought to have serious concerns about the objec­tivity of their research. A second type of response typical of liberal columnists such as Eric Alterman comes in the form of variations on the theme: But conservatives are less open to honest inquiry! This argument, however, con­tradicts itself. In order to be a valid sociological explanation for the absence of conservatives in Academia, it would have to be the case that those who enter academia with liberal opin­ions never change their opinions dur­ing the course of their careers, which would itself suggest the same aversion to inquiry that is being attributed to conservatives. 
While statistically speaking many individuals do inherit their political opinions from their families and com­munities, this ought not to be the case for academics. Rather, academics ought constantly to be evaluating and re-evaluating their opinions in light of new information and differing perspec­tives. Of course, many do not do this. It is far easier simply to accept the received wisdom of one’s peers, whether that wisdom comes in the form of historical narratives, method­ological assumptions or, yes, political opinions. After all, it takes a lot more work to challenge a received historical narrative or methodological assump­tion and offer an alternative than it does just to parrot what others say. For this reason, those who deviate from “orthodox” political opinions (whatever they may be) in the academy often hold more sophisticated political opinions than those who merely adopt the posi­tions of their peers, and in this regard better represent the ideals of the acad­emy. 
Haidt has undoubtedly identified a problem in the academy. Because prac­tically all fields in the Humanities and Social Sciences touch upon the political 
— even in my field of Medieval History there are a number of important mono­graphs explicitly inspired by political convictions — the absence of some political perspectives leaves us all the poorer. To rectify this, we need first to dispel the notion that conservatives are close-minded. Further, when scholars of any political bent encounter preju­dice (and I think it is much rarer than some would claim), we need to respond with the same shock and horror that we would respond to bigotry against other minority groups. 
Finally, conservatives for their part need to be more vocal in the academy. As Haidt found in the response to his paper, prejudice against conservatives in the academy really isn’t as bad as many make it out to be. 
Joseph Nawrocki is a graduate student studying history.. He can be reached at nawrocki.4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Seeing as how the permacloud is now probably back until April, you’ll have plenty of grey in your life. 
Fill this space with something more interesting. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, February 21, 2011 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, February 21, 2011 page 11 


Billy Ocean once sang “When once part of a dastardly tumble the goin’ gets tough, the tough get involving high heels, a very eye­goin’.” Well, where I come from catching orange straw bag, a when the going gets tough, the fruity drink and an Italian pop tough get their stilettos. star — all in front of a beach full 
Yes, I can 
of people (feel free to pester me just hear 
for more details). But they can, your mind, 
like the paintings of the Louvre, dear reader, 
inspire us to do it our own high-screaming in 
heeled way, the American way: collegiate 
bigger and better! fashionista 
When choosing a stiletto there fervor as it 
are two things to consider: fit and finds itself 
height. Never buy a high heel too at this small or too big. No more than crossroads half an inch should be between of the fash-the toes and the front of the shoe ion jungle. — this will be highly evident if the You can feel your feet throbbing item in question is a peep-toe or a in pleasure and pain even as you sandal. No more than a quarter of imagine that most amazing, jaw an inch between your heel and dropping high-the back of the shoe heeled creation you 
— this avoids coveted on your last 
uncomfortable blis­weekend jaunt to 
ters on the balls of the Mall. You say: 
your feet. Never buy But high heels are 
a pair of heels that for crazy nights 
is too high for you. dancing away my 
The smallest stiletto latest exam cares, 
will usually be for interviews in 
about 3.5 inches which they must be 
high, while for the a sleek counterpart 
sky-scraping to my boring, “take­
desirous among us, me-seriously-even­
5 inches should do. though-I’m-a-
Examine your calf secret-glitter-nail­
muscle while trying polish-wearing-die­
it on — too much hard-fashion-wor­
tension (i.e. looking shipper-who-hopes­
as if you are about she-fails-this-inter­
to sprint) is not view-so-she-can-go­
good, but “relaxed work-at-VOGUE” 
tension” is the look black suit. 
we’re going for. A Sashay into class platform stiletto
Emily Newton models 
in a high pair of heels may give you a better
the stilleto. 
that proclaim my sense of security. embrace and presentation of my Wear a pair of stilettos with aesthetic appearance to be just as jeans and a sweater to spice up a important as my mind which I casual look, pair them with fish-spend evening upon 
nets to toughen up evening cramming with 
an elegant walk-historical, mathemati­
ing short, or go all cal and scientific facts? 
out and pair them Actually, why the heck 
with your best not? 
dress. Color is a If there was ever one 
free-for-all. Match kernel of inspiration 
them to your bag, we could take from 
don’t match them our European coun­
to your bag, what­terparts it would be ever you choose their dedication to their entire no one will be able to look away selves: the dedication to put on as you make campus your own that extra layer of red lipstick catwalk. Forever 21 currently has when running to the open-air a pair of red stilettos with a flirty market, to spritz on Chanel No. 5 bow for a cool $26.80. Tough while on their way to swiftly pick never looked so chic. up a bottle of wine for dinner, to put on killer heels even though The views expressed in this 17th century cobblestones threat-column are those of the author en them on every street. and not necessarily those of The 
Now, mind you, I’m not saying Observer. these same counterparts are ele-Contact Felicia Caponigri at gant all the time. I myself was fcaponig@nd.edu 


MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Catherine Flately Spotted: LaFortune 
After a fun weekend, Catherine is getting ready 
to start a new and busy school week with style. She layers many dark toned tops that go perfect­ly with her black winter jacket. She also made the great choice of wearing a cool printed scarf. To complete the look, her bright red rain boots add color and a little bit of fun to her outfit. Catherine looks effortlessly chic! 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 21, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish women snap conference title streak at 14 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s streak of Big East Championship dominance came to an end Saturday when the Irish finished the champi­onship meet with 655.5 points, second to Louisville’s 820.5. 
Though the Irish (5-7) were disappointed to see their run of 14 consecutive conference titles snapped at Louisville’s Wright Natatorium, strong individual performances and a second-place finish gave Notre Dame plenty to be proud of. 
“It was hard to lose to Louisville, but honestly we came together as a team and we had a great time at the meet,” senior swimmer Katie Casey said. “We’ve had a really long last year, so I think the fact that we performed well at the meet is something to be really excited about.” 
The strong swimming of sophomore Kim Holden and freshman Kelly Ryan buoyed the Irish throughout the meet. 
Holden won both the 100-yard and 200-yard backstroke, the second year in a row she swept the events. Her 200­yard time of 1:55.18 broke the school record that she set last season. She also became the first female Big East swimmer to swim the 100-yard back­stroke in under 53 seconds after finishing with a time of 52.99, a feat made all the more impressive by the fact that she trailed her competi­tion by over a second half way through the race. 
Holden also took third place in the 100-yard butterfly, claiming an NCAA B-cut time along with Casey, who finished in fourth place. 
Holden was joined in the spotlight by Ryan, who was outstanding in her first Big East Championship meet. 
Ryan took the 200-yard freestyle in dominating fash­ion, winning her first Big East title after leading the field for the entire four-pool length race. Ryan also won the 100­yard freestyle with a NCAA B-cut time of 49.73. She beat out second-place finisher Aileen Cole of Louisville and team­mate Amy Prestinario, a junior who finished third with anoth­er NCAA B-cut performance. 
Ryan also scored points in the 200-yard backstroke, com­ing in third place, and anchored both the victorious 400-yard freestyle and medley relays. The 400-yard freestyle relay, one of the last events of the meet, was a highlight of the week for Notre Dame. 
“We already knew that we going to get second overall in the meet, but they won the last relay and it was really exciting to watch and a great swim,” Casey said. 
The relay squad, which fea­tured Prestinario, senior Lauren Parisi and sophomore Lauren Scott in addition to Ryan, trailed Louisville for the first three legs of the race. But Ryan stole the lead from the home team on the on the last lap, allowing the Irish to finish the day with a victory. 
The Irish were also encour­aged by the return of head coach Brian Barnes, who has been away for much of the season for personal reasons. 

“It was awesome to have him back. He came back about a week and a half before we left, and then he was there for the entire weekend,” Casey said. “It was really nice to have him back coaching us and telling us 

of the championships. So 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
going into the swimming 
Sports Writer 
section, the Irish had a lead . However, a strong 
For the second consecu -conference field and a swift tive season, Notre Dame Louisville team overcame finished as the runner-up that lead. in the Big East champi -“It’s always a very intense 
onships behind Louisvill e, who hosted 
“[Frank Dyer’s] season 
this year ’s 
has just been one
tournament, as swimmers wonderful achievement set six school 
after another. He just
records in the 
had a marvelous, 
four-day event. marvelous meet.” “The team performed 
Tim Welsh 
quite well, ” 
Irish coach
Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “I meas-meet,” Welsh said. “Louisville is very strong and they have been for a number of years.” 
Louisville took the crown with 917 points. The Irish finished with 713.5, ahead of Pittsburgh at 503 and 
ure this by lifetime best West Virginia at 470 in the times: in terms of the num-11-team field. ber of personal best times, “There ’s some improve ­lifetime best times. We had ment throughout the con ­those all over the place.” ference, “ Welsh said . “I 
The previous weekend, thought that the field did a Notre Dame captured first very nice job as well.” place in the diving portion All five Notre Dame relay teams met the NCAA con ­sideration standard, and several individuals met the requirements as well. 
The most impressive overall performance of the event was turned in by freshman Frank Dyer. With a strong season already under his belt, Dyer came into the championships and claimed four Big East hon-
o r s  a n d  a  c h a n c e  t o  c o m  - 
p e t e  i n  t h e  N C A A  t o u r n a  - 
ment.  

“That was just spectacu­lar,” Welsh said. “His sea­son has just been one won­derful achievement after another. He just had a mar­velous, marvelous meet.” 
Other than Dyer, several 
other Notre Dame swim ­mers made notable per ­formances in individual events. 
In the 200 -yard back ­stroke, junior Petar Petrovic took fourth place and senior Michael Sullivan took fifth . Behind them were senior Christopher Wills in seventh and fresh­man Bertie Nel in eighth. 

In an event in which Dyer finished third, sophomore Kevin Overholt took sixth in the 100 -yard freestyle. Sophomore Bill Bass took fifth in the 200 -yard but ­terfly. 
Up next for the Irish who have qualified are the to have our eyes on the pool. It made the team come together.” 
Notre Dame will learn which swimmers have qualified for the NCAA Championships with­in two weeks. The champi­onship meet will begin on March 17 in Austin, Texas. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame takes second at Big East tournament 

NCAA Zone Diving Championships March 11 ­13 in Columbus, Oh., and the NCAA Championships held March 24 -26 in Minneapolis. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 
Stop Renting - Invest your money! 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, all appliances, jillrobinson@century21abbey.com. 
574-250-9980 
———————————————— 
FOR RENT 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: House for rent for gradua­tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons-walk to everything-safe family oriented street. Email nd­house@sbcglobal.net for additional info and photos 
———————————————— OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxury 

options at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings, Oak Hill and North Shore Club. CES Property Management. Call 574-298-4206, www.cespm.info 
———————————————— 
NOTICES 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu ———————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu ———————————————— 
PERSONAL 
MENTOR NEEDED: 17 year old male diagnosed w/epilepsy. Has a difficult time relating to peers and is looking for guidance from someone who has experienced this condition. Contact Donna (mom) @ Williams.306@nd.edu. 
———————————————— 
WANTED 
ND/SMC couple in Dallas, Texas 
seeks full-time nanny for 15 months 
beginning June 2011. If interested, 
please email 
hdawson1@hotmail.com. 
———————————————— 

Monday, February 21, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 

Team finishes second in attempt to defend title 
Big East Championships held in 
By JOE WIRTH 
Akron, Ohio. 
Sports Writer 
Connecticut took the champi­onship with 136.75 points The The Irish failed to defend their Irish did not repeat their indoor 2010 Big East title this past championship run of the last weekend, placing second at the year, but their second place fin­

ish with 132 points was still very impressive. 
One of the bright spots in Notre Dame’s performance was in the 4x800-meter relay. With a team comprised of seniors Kevin Labus and Jack Howard, junior Johnathan Shawel and sopho­more Jeremy Rae, the Irish set Big East and track records with their 7:25.31 time — the fastest posted time in the nation this year in the event. 
After the record-setting relay, the Irish pulled to within six points of the Huskies and were poised to take over the lead with only the 4x400-meter relay remaining on the race slate. The Irish earned five points out of the race, but Connecticut regis­tered 3.75 points — enough for them to clinch the champi­onship. 

Despite not winning the indoor championships, the Irish still won many Big East titles and earned multiple all-Big East honors throughout the season. 
The Irish excelled in the 1,000-meter event, registering the top two finishers. Shawel crossed the finish line first with a time of 2:26.94 and junior Jordan Carlson, who also earned an all-Big East selection, came across less than one second later with a time of 2:27.47. 
Freshman Patrick Feeney won the Big East title in the 400­meter dash, registering a time of 
48.11. Feeney had to hold off Villanova sophomore Carlton Bowers down the stretch to take home the crown. 
Senior Denes Veres was all-Big East in the shotput with a throw of 17.33 meters. This all-Big East selection is the sixth such honors Veres has earned in his four years in South Bend. 
The Irish will be in action next at home for the Alex Wilson Invitational Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
NFL 

Tense labor negotiations continue 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Federally mediated negotiations toward a new NFL labor deal lasted about eight hours Sunday, the third consecutive day the league and its players’ union met to try to find common ground before the current contract expires. 
NFL Players Association execu­tive director DeMaurice Smith didn’t stop for questions as he left the Washington office of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, a U.S. gov­ernment agency, shortly after 6 

p.m. He and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell arrived within minutes of each other, shortly before 10 a.m. 
After months of slow and some­times contentious bargaining, the sides have met for a total of more than 20 hours since Friday in front of George Cohen, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. 
Because both sides agreed to Cohen’s request that they not comment publicly on these nego­tiations, it’s not clear what, if any, progress is being made. 
aYou know we’re not going to give you any information,” NFL outside lawyer Bob Batterman said as he left with three league executives. “I can’t say anything, other than the fact that we are meeting.” 
Batterman, who represented the NHL when it lost its entire 2004-05 season to a lockout, then referred to Cohen as a “first-class mediator.” 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 21, 2011 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Team splits with Michigan, UNC 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 23 Irish split their matches this weekend at home, falling to No. 27 Michigan, and defeating No. 24 North Carolina. 
The Irish started off both matches winning the doubles point in each for the 10th and 11th times this season having only lost the doubles point once — to No. 1 Virginia. 
“We are playing better doubles this season because we return all of last year’s starters and the experience has been helpful, particularly in making match adjustments,” head coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Additionally, some of our guys are becoming much better around the net and have bought into solid princi­ples.” 
In the first match of the weekend the Irish lost to the Wolverines by a 4-3 final score. 
Junior Niall Fitzgerald earned vic­tories for the Irish at No. 2 doubles and No. 6 singles. 
Freshman Greg Andrews and jun­ior Casey Watt earned their first vic­tory at No. 3 doubles defeating Shaun Bernstein and Chris Cha 8-6. 
Fitzgerald teamed with sophomore Spencer Talmadge to claim the dou­bles point for the Irish. 
No. 77 Watt fell in singles to No. 48 Evan King at No. 1 singles to knot the match at one by a score of 6-2, 6-1. 
No. 54 Jason Jung defeated senior Stephen Havens at No. 2 singles 6-3, 6-1. 
Senior Tyler Davis fell to Barrett Franks at No. 5 singles to give Michigan a 3-1 advantage. 
Andrews picked up Notre Dame’s first singles win on the day at No. 4 singles defeating Justin Rossi 6-4, 7­5. 
Dan Stahl lost the final singles match for the Irish to Bernstein 7-6 (10-8), 6-4 at No. 3. 
In the second match on the week­end the Irish defeated North Carolina by a score of 5-1. 
The Irish again claimed the dou­bles point winning at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles. 
No. 20 Brennan Boyajian and Jose Hernandez of North Carolina defeat­ed Davis and Havens 8-4. 
No. 51 Niall Fitzgerald and Spencer Talmadge defeated Stefan Hardy and Zach Hunter 8-3 at No. 2 doubles. 
Watt and Andrews also defeated William Parker and Cameron Ahari by the same score. 
Andrews defeated Ahari 6-2, 6-4 at No. 4 singles to give the Irish a 2-0 advantage before North Carolina got on the board. 
No. 30 Hernandez defeated No. 77 Watt to give the Tar Heels their only victory of the day. 
Stahl was able to defeat No. 101 Boyajian in a three set match at No. 3 singles 4-6, 6-2, 6-1 to give the Irish a 3-1 advantage. 
After dropping the first set 6-2, sophomore Blas Moros came back to claim the next two 6-2, 6-0, over Kyle Baker. 
Havens defeated Hardy in another three setter 5-7, 7-5, 1-0 at No. 2, while Fitzgerald fell at No. 5 singles 6-7, 7-5, 1-0 to Parker. 
The Irish will next head to the Blue-Gray National Classic in Birmingham, Ala. this coming week­end. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
Associated Press 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — Trevor Bayne finally made a mistake. Fortunately for him, it didn’t happen until he missed the turn pulling into Victory Lane at the Daytona 500. 
The youngest driver to win the Great American Race gave the historic Wood Brothers team its fifth Daytona 500 victo­ry — its first since 1976 with David Pearson — and Bayne did it in a No. 21 Ford that was retrofitted to resemble Pearson’s famed ride. 
In just his second Sprint Cup start, the 20-year-old Bayne stunned NASCAR’s biggest names with a thrilling overtime win Sunday at Daytona International Speedway, holding off Carl Edwards after fan favorite Dale Earnhardt Jr. crashed in NASCAR’s first attempt at a green-white-check­ered flag finish. 
“Our first 500, are you kid­ding me?” said Bayne, who needed directions to Victory Lane. “Wow. This is unbeliev­able.” 
Unbelievable, indeed. 

Just one day after celebrating his 20th birthday and leaving his teenage years behind, the aw-shucks Tennessean who shaves once a week and consid­ers “Rugrats” his favorite TV show captured the sport’s biggest race. 
When he found himself at the front, and victory just two laps away, he never thought it would last. Bayne was content just to say he had been leading at the start of the green-white-check­ered. 
“I’m a little bit worried that one of them is going to come after me tonight,” he said. “I’m going to have to sleep with one eye open. That’s why I said I felt a little undeserving. I’m leading, and I’m saying, ‘Who can I push?’“ 
Bayne thought for sure Tony Stewart or someone else would attempt to pass. 
Nobody did. 
“We get to turn four, and we were still leading the band,” he said. “It seemed a little bit too easy there at the end.” 
The rookie had been great throughout Speedweeks, even proving his mettle by pushing four-time champion Jeff Gordon for most of a qualifying race, a performance Bayne said con­vinced the veterans he could be trusted on the track. 
“I figured they had a chance after seeing that boy race in the 150s,” said Pearson, who will be 

NBA 
Bryant wins MVP as WesttakesAll-Stargame 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Kobe Bryant always shines brightest among the stars, especially in his hometown. 
Bryant brought Showtime back to the All-Star game, scor­ing 37 points and tying a record with his fourth MVP award, leading the Western Conference to a 148-143 victo­ry over the East on Sunday night. 
Returning to the game he dominates after a one-year absence, Bryant added 14 rebounds in a spectacular per­formance in front of the usual celebrity-filled crowd that turns out to see his Lakers at Staples Center. 
“It feels great, being at home here and playing in front of the home crowd,” Bryant said after receiving the MVP trophy. “This will be my last All-Star game in front of these home fans, so it feels good to do it.” 
Kevin Durant chipped in 34 points, scoring five straight after the East cut a 17-point deficit after three quarters to two points with 2:34 to play. The NBA scoring leader added the clinching free throws after the East got back within three in the final seconds. 
LeBron James powered the East rally, finishing with 29 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists to join Michael Jordan as the only players with a triple-double in the All-Star game. Amare Stoudemire also scored 29, but Miami’s Dwyane Wade, the MVP of the East’s win last year, had to leave with an ankle injury after scoring 14. 
Plenty of Hollywood giants were sitting courtside, but Bryant’s popularity here can rival most of them. This week, he became the first athlete to have his handprints and foot­prints put in concrete outside Hollywood’s famed Grauman’s Chinese Theater. 
He told fans to “enjoy the show” before the tip, and as always he delivered a good one. 
Always more about focus than fun, Bryant had 21 points by the time Rihanna came out for her halftime performance, putting him halfway to Wilt Chamberlain’s record from 1962, the year of his 100-point game. 
“You could tell he started out from the start, he wanted to get the MVP,” Stoudemire said. “He was not passing the ball, at all. But that’s Kobe.” 
NASCAR 

20-year-old Bayne wins at Daytona 
inducted into the Hall of Fame in May. “I talked to him this morning. I told him to keep his head straight and not to do any­thing crazy. I told him to stay relaxed. I’m proud of him.” 
With the win Bayne breaks Gordon’s mark as the youngest winner in Daytona 500 history. Gordon was 25 when he won the 500 in 1997. 
“I think it’s very cool. Trevor’s a good kid, and I love the Wood Brothers,” Gordon said. “I’m really happy for him. And I think it’s great for the sport. To have a young talent like that — he’s got that spark, you know?” 
The victory for NASCAR pio­neers Leonard and Glen Wood ended a 10-year-losing streak and came the week of the 10th anniversary of Dale Earnhardt’s fatal accident on the last lap of the 2001 Daytona 500. 


Monday, February 21, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
ND SOFTBALL 

Team sweeps 5 games at UCF Invitational 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
On the heels of a 5-0 sweep in the UCF Invitational in Florida over the weekend, the Irish return to South Bend with the 2011 season off to an auspi­cious start. 
In the tournament opener the Irish faced Miami (Ohio), and three freshmen cracked the starting lineup: infielder Chloe Saganowich, outfielder Lauren Stuhr and pitcher and infielder Laura Winter. The freshman pitcher stepped up by finishing out the fifth inning with a strikeout, leaving the path open for the team to take a 3-2 lead, which it held onto for the remainder of the matchup. Starting pitcher Jackie Bowe, a sophomore, contributed three strikeouts of her own in her 4.2 innings pitched. 
Notre Dame brought confi­dence from the season-opening victory into its next matchup against the hosting Central Florida Knights. The numerous Irish veterans took the lead this time, including senior pitcher Jody Valdivia who did not allow a single runner on base until the fourth. Notre Dame’s nine hits on the day were a collective effort with hitters including jun­ior Dani Miller, sophomore Amy Buntin and seniors Katie Fleury, Heather Johnson and Brianna Jorgensborg, whose sacrifice fly brought the team to its final margin of 5-3. 

After a successful Day One of the Invitational for the Irish, they took on the University of Illinois-Chicago in what turned into a complete win for Notre Dame. Junior Alexa Maldonado took charge on offense, going 2­for-2 at the plate with a pair of runs. Strong pitching from Winter and relief from Bowe allowed just one run for the Flames, resulting in a final score of 4-1. 

Once again charging out of the gates, the Irish stunned Delaware with seven runs in the bottom half of the first inning in their fourth game. The Blue Hens were never able to recov­er from Notre Dame’s balanced attack from Fleury, Maldonado, Jorgensborg, sophomore Kathryn Lux and junior Kasey O’Connor. Sophomore pitcher Brittany O’Donnell was nearly perfect in her three innings on the mound, giving up no hits and walking one. The Blue Hens were overpowered, as the Irish won by an 11-0 margin in just five innings. 
In the team’s final matchup in Orlando, it faced Miami (Ohio) for a second time, this time led by the offensive efforts of Maldonado, who brought in a runner on a fourth-inning home run. This time the Irish scored in each of the first two innings to give themselves a comfort­able leg up on the Redhawks. The team finished up the week­end with a dominant 4-1 victo­ry. 
Notre Dame’s next series of games will be Feb. 26-27 at the College of Charleston Invitational. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
PGA 

Baddeley victorious at Riviera 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Finally a winner again, Aaron Baddeley raised his arms when his last putt dropped into the cup Sunday in the Northern Trust Open as his wife and two young daughters came over to share the moment. 
They might have been among the few cheering him on at Riviera. 
Baddeley could hear chants of “Freddie!” at every turn, and it got even louder when Fred Couples birdied the opening three holes to take the lead. Unfazed, Baddeley cared only about a victory that was just as meaningful to him. 


“I thought Freddie was going to be tough today because win­ning is a skill, and Freddie has been winning quite often recent­ly,” Baddeley said. “When he got off to a good start, I was like, ‘Freddie looks like he’s going to have one of those days where he’s going to play great.’ I was still just trying to focus on my game, and try to do what I need­ed to do.” 
He did just enough. 
In a battle of generations, the 29-year-old Australian made his best putt after his only big mis­take and closed with a 2-under 69 to hold off Vijay Singh and Couples, and win for the first time in four years. 
Baddeley wound up with a two-shot win over Singh, who turns 48 on Tuesday. The big Fijian closed with a 69 for his best finish in more than two years. Couples, who still had hope on the 16th, bogeyed two of the last three holes and shot 73 to tie for seventh in his bid to become the PGA Tour’s oldest winner in more than 35 years. 
“I’m a golfer, so I’m disap­pointed,” Couples said. 
With his tender back, it only took one hole for the 51-year-old Couples to fall apart. Tied for the lead, he pushed his tee shot into the barranca to the right of the seventh fairway in grass so thick he had trouble finding his ball. Couples gave it a ferocious whack, and the ball came out to the left and into a bunker. He wound up making double bogey, a three-shot swing when Baddeley holed a 20-footer for birdie from the fringe. 
“I just didn’t feel the same after that,” Couples said. “I did-n’t really hurt myself, but I never hit a shot, and I just got it around. I mean, I couldn’t hit an iron. I hit a few good drives, but I was afraid to hit the ground, hitting it that hard out of that stuff. I did get off to a good start, and that was where it ended. 
“It’s nothing bad,” he said. “I’m not having any excuse. It’s just after that point, I never hit a shot.” 
It was the third career PGA Tour win for Baddeley, whose game had slipped so much that he had plunged to No. 224 in the world. This isn’t enough to get back into the top 50, but at least he can book a trip to Augusta National in April for the Masters. 
Singh, who only three weeks ago had fallen out of the top 100 in the world for the first time in more than 21 years, had his highest finish since he won the Deutsche Bank Championship in 2008 on his way to the FedEx Cup. Despite back-to-back bogeys on the back nine, he gave himself a chance to the very end. 
Singh said it was the best week with the putter in his career, which would include his 2000 Masters victory. He took only 105 putts for the week, including just one three-putt in the second round. 
“That’s a great, great thing to have when you’re putting well,” Singh said. “I haven’t done that for a long, long time. This is going to get me some places.” 
Baddeley, who finished at 12­under 272, won for the first time since the 2007 Phoenix Open. He had been one of the early proponents of the “Stack & Tilt” swing method until deciding to go back to his old teacher, Dale Lynch, two years ago. His goal was to be able to move the ball both ways without having to think about it, and the swing held up just fine on a sunny afternoon along Sunset Boulevard. 
“To be honest, it felt like com­ing home,” Baddeley said of his return to Lynch, his first coach as a teenager in Australia. “Dale and I have spent a lot of hours together, and at times it’s been frustrating, but like I said, that end product ... we knew what we were working toward, and that was the key.” 
Kevin Na made good putts on the last two holes for a 71 that put him alone in third place. 
Couples was showing his age on the practice range, where his back is so tender that he only warms up with a driver and fairway metals to stay more upright. With a driver in hand, he teed up two balls at a time to keep from stooping over. 
On the course, he looked like the Couples of old. 
Couples opened with three straight birdies to bring Riviera to life, just like the old days. He chipped in for birdie from just off the second green, pointing his club to the cup with his left hand in a pose that has become familiar over the years. Then came a 20-foot birdie on the third to give him the outright lead. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 21, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish fnish eighth in Big East 
By SAM GANS winning is an impressive feat Sports Writer itself, Tracy’s youth and par­ticipation in other events 
Led by a first place finish makes the win even more from sophomore Rebecca impressive. Tracy in the mile, the Irish “We’re really proud of her. finished in eighth place at the And she’s young — she’s only Big East Championships this a sophomore, so she did a weekend. wonderful 
The Irish job,” Piane earned 56 said. “And 
points in the “They competed very not only was 14-team meet, she in the 
well. We have a long way 
which took mile, she 
to go, but it was a good,
place in was also the Akron, Ohio. solid performance for leadoff leg Louisville fin-in the dis ­
them.” 
ished first, tance med ­with 110 ley and ran points. Joe Piane a leg in the 
Irish coach Irish coach two-mil e Joe Piane said relay. She he was did a fantas­pleased with tic job.” the team’s effort and result. The Irish had a number of 
“They competed very well,” other strong performances, Piane said. “We have a long which included two other mil-way to go, but it was a good, ers who scored at the meet: solid performance for them.” freshman Alex Aragon (fifth; 
Tracy, who set the second-4:54.66) and senior Marissa fastest mile time in the nation Treece (eighth, 5:01.39). In earlier in the season, won the addition, senior Rudy Atang event with a time of 4:46.61, finished sixth in the shotput, narrowly edging Villanova with a distance of 14.73 freshman Emily Lipari, who meters. finished at 4:46.80. Though the Big East 
Piane mentioned that, while Championships were a strong performance for the Irish, there is not much time to dwell on them, as they return home for the Alex Wilson Invitational in two weeks. 
“[The Wilson] is a good meet, it really is,” Piane said. “There are always a lot of national qualifiers [that come] out of that meet.” 
While there are many quali­ty runners competing in the meet, it’s also an important meet for another reason, as it marks the last time runners can qualify for the NCAA Championships the following week. 
“For the Wilson Invitational, we have to fig­ure out where we want to put kids and if we want to try to get a distance medley quali­fied [for the NCAA Championships] or run indi­viduals in individual events,” Piane said. “And frankly that decision won’t be made until later on this week.” 
The Alex Wilson Invitational will take place on March 4-5 at the Loftus Sports Complex. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish head to Florida for tourney 
to be a little tough, because 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
today [Sunday] was the first 
Sports Writer 
day we played on grass, but I think we’re pretty mentally The Notre Dame women’s strong and we’ ve been 
golf team will escape the wet and blus­tery weather of South Bend as they com ­pete in the Central District Invitational. The tourna ­ment, hosted by Michigan State, will be held at the River Wild erness 
“Our goals are the same as the tournaments in the fall, which is just to win and do our best.” 
Nicole Zhang freshman 
preparing for a while so I think we’ll do well.” 
The Irish will face stiff com­petition from 14 other squads, includ­ing the hosts, No. 18 Michigan State. Other ranked 
opponents include Kent State, Iowa State, Arkansas 
and 
Country Club in Parrish, Fla., Monday and Tuesday. 
The event will be the first of the spring season for the Irish, who were 53 -11 against Division I opponents this past fall. Notre Dame is currently ranked No. 15 in the country, the highest rank­ing in program history. 
The Irish, who last compet­ed in the Alamo Invitational last November, will attempt to continue their strong play from the fall after the long winter layoff. 
“Our goals are the same as the tournaments in the fall, which is just to win and do our best,” freshman golfer Nicole Zhang said. “It’s going 
h o l e s  e o n  M o n d a y,  a n d  a  
t h i r d  a n d  f i n a l  r o u n d  o n  
Tuesday.  

The Irish squad will feature four golfers in addition to Zhang: seniors Katie Conway and So -Hyun Park, junior Becca Huffer and freshmen Kristina Nhim. 
Notre Dame will hope for a strong performance from Zhang, who is currently the No. 20 ranked women’s col­lege golfer, the highest rank­ing of any freshman. 
Zhang said that neither she nor her teammates are wor­ried about the pressure that comes along with a larger profile and higher rankings. 
“It ’s good to know your 
LSU. Notre Dame faced other mem­bers of the Central District Invitational field 18 times during the fall season, winning 14 times. 
“I think all the teams are [com­petitive], because it ’s a pretty strong field, but in particular LSU, because they are 

“I think all the teams are [competitive], because it’s a pretty strong feld.” 
Nicole Zhang freshman 
standi ng and it’s nice to know how all of 
our hard work is pay­ing off, ” Zhang said. “I think it’s fine, and it also moti ­vates us to get to the first posi ­tion.” 
The Irish 

r a n k e d  p r e t t y  h i g h ,  a n d  w i l l  t e e  o f f  a t  8  a . m .  o n  
Arkansas is ranked ahead of  Monday.  
us as well,” said Zhang.  
The tournament will stretch  
over two days. The teams will  Contact Vicky Jacobsen at  
each play two rounds of 18  vjacobse@nd.edu  


Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
team’s effort. 
“We’re not playing for moral victories,” she said. “I’m proud of the way they played and compet­ed. There were plenty of key plays that we wished we had made. We had chances.” 
Although the Irish did have chances, the long stretches spent defending the Northwestern attack may have contributed to Notre Dame squandering some of its early opportunities for goals. 
“A couple of the early posses­sions we rushed,” Coyne said. “Once we settled down and start­ed finding the open player that gave us confidence.” 
Another source of confidence for the Irish was the home crowd, a group that numbered over 700 and whose cheers were enhanced by the indoor setting. 
“I thought [the game] had a good atmosphere, the noise was great,” Coyne said. “We had a good turnout for an early game.” 
The Wildcats now lead the all-time series between the two schools 11-2, including 11 straight dating back to 2004. However, Coyne said the game was compet­itive and could have gone either way, and that her players were not thinking of the streak on Saturday. 
“This is the best we’ve played them since 2004,” she said. “They called a timeout late, you could tell they were still worried we could come back and win the game. Truthfully, we don’t care about anything other than step­ping on the field and competing with them.” 
Despite boasting a losing record, Coyne said she doesn’t worry about her squad’s direction. 
“The girls are ready to put the losing streak behind them,” she said. “They left the locker room (after the game) on Saturday motivated. They have the mentali­ty, heart and attitude of a champi­on. Those are intangibles. I told them if they didn’t have the right attitude this would be a much tougher hill to climb, but they want to win.” 
Notre Dame takes this confi­dence on the road for its next 
game,  a  matchup  against  
Duquesne  in  Pittsburgh  on  
Saturday.  

Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Monday, February 21, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Sophomore Skylar Diggins and junior guard Natalie 
Irish 
Novosel led the way with 22 and 18 points, respectively. 
continued from page 20 
The rest of the team scored only 17 points in the loss. 
such a high level for the With the defeat, Notre team this season, was Dame falls one game behind essentially a non -factor DePaul for second place in because of the play of the the Big East. The two teams Huskies and Notre Dame’s will conclude the regular early foul trouble. season against each other 
“I think the foul trouble in in Chicago, Ill., in the con-the first half hurt,” McGraw clusion of a brutal four-said. “I think they are a big game stretch for the Irish. presence on defense. Maya The second game of that Moore is the leader down stretch comes this Tuesday, there.” when Notre Dame travels to 
Moore, the Big East ’s West Virginia to battle the Preseason Player of the Mountaineers. Year, scored 12 points and “We’re looking forward to recorded seven rebounds in West Virginia now, ” 34 minutes. The senior All-McGraw said. “We need to American anchored a put this game behind us strong Huskies defense that and focus on finishing sec-held the Irish to fewer than ond in the conference. We 60 points for only the sec-really need to focus on ond time this season. Senior these final three games.” forwards Devereaux Peters The matchup between the and Becca Bruszewski com-Irish and Mountaineers will bined for only eight points tip off at 7 p.m. Tuesday in in the contest. Morgantown, W.Va. 
The Irish backcourt was forced to step up and spark Contact Andrew Owens at the Notre Dame offense. aowens2@nd.edu 

both contributed as well. So, the pipes for Jackson’s Irish. this weekend was a little “I thought Steven played a
Jackson 

more about our depth.” good game. He hasn’t had as On the other end of the ice, much work as much, but I
continued from page 20 

another sophomore stood on thought he made some big his head and helped deliver saves at big moments,” 
coach Jeff Jackson said. Notre Dame the big win. Jackson said. “I was pleased “We turned the puck over a Johnson faced 15 shots in a with both efforts [from bit too much, but I thought we first period filled with puck Johnson and Summerhays].” settled down and played miscues — and stopped them Jackson said the two goal-extremely well after that.” all. Jackson said Johnson’s tenders, who have split time 
Though freshman goal-scor-performance helped the Irish the past three weekends, will ers Anders Lee and T.J. Tynan stay in the game. continued to be evaluated have powered the Irish “Mike was stellar on Friday. based on their play. offense in multiple games, the Early on, we were a little bit “It’s still a work in progress Irish sophomore class provid-loose with the puck,” Jackson for me, because I’ve never ed the offense in a 3-2 win said. “He played extremely really rotated goalies before. I Friday night — with goals well. I thought he did a great think they’re both playing from defender Sam Calabrese, job of holding us in there well. I think it’ll be a matter wing Nick Larson and center until we got our feet under-of seeing who’s playing well. Riley Sheahan. Without goals neath us.” It’ll just be a matter of mak­from Tynan and Lee — who With the CCHA home -ice ing the decision when the lead the team with 19 apiece already clinched, the Irish time comes,” he said. “We’re 
— the Irish relied on bal -offense struck early and often getting closer to the playoffs; anced scoring on the week-Saturday as goals from somebody’s going to have to end. Larson, Gerths and a trio of step forward. If they’re both 
“Those situations are going seniors — center Ben Ryan, playing that well, maybe they to happen. We need our other defenseman Joe Lavin and both play. Right now I think guys to step up. I thought that wing Calle Ridderwall — scor-Mike’s still the guy. He has David Gerths’ line, with Nick ing goals in a 5-2 win that that opportunity to show that Larson and Mike Voran, kept the Irish in first place in he can win in the playoffs. played extremely well on the the CCHA standings. “In the meantime, Steven’s weekend,” Jackson said. “I Summerhays got the start in doing a good job of being pre­thought [senior center Ben goal and made a career-high pared in case he does go in.” Ryan]’s line and [sophomore 29 saves, underlining the With the win, the Irish are center Riley Sheahan]’s line dynamic situation between assured of a top-four finish in 

the CCHA, and the home-ice in the second round of the CCHA playoffs that comes with that finish. 
“That’s one of our goals for the season, to finish in the top four of the conference and we’re guaranteed to be in the top two right now,” Jackson said. “I think that just gives us the week to prepare and maybe get some guys healed up a little bit. We can prepare for an opponent that we can somewhat predict.” 
Heading into the final week­end series of the season against Western Michigan, the Irish hold a one-point lead in the standings over Michigan for first place, and Jackson said the team will play the series with a couple goals in mind. 
“Our priority right now is to make sure we go into the playoffs playing well. If we win first place, that’s a real feather in the cap for this group of kids, ” he said. “Being so young, I don’t think anybody would have given them that respect.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 




page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 21, 2011 
Duke 
continued from page 20 
good possessions because whoever has the ball the most, that’s a good thing for them,” Brenneman said. 
The Irish worked hard in practice last week to win faceoffs and to extend their 
offensive possessions. Corrigan praised the work of Irish assistant coach Brian Fisher who worked with the attack unit in practice. 
Against the Blue Devils, Notre Dame had the advan­tage 13-9 in faceoffs, 
“Coach Fisher worked really hard with two great kids, [senior midfielder] Jake Marmul and [freshman midfielder] Liam O’Connor.” Corrigan said. “[Fisher] truly does a great job working with them.” 
The Irish return to action at Penn State next Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


Brey 
continued from page 20 

centrate as well, we didn't chase down loose balls as well and it made them believe and their crowd believe. It's a tough one to get a win in. It is a great atmosphere.” 
The Irish took control in the opening minutes, jump­ing out to a 9-4 lead just under six minutes into the contest. Senior guard Scott Martin scored seven of Notre Dame’s first eleven points to help the Irish overcome a slow start. In the opening frame, Notre Dame held West Virginia to just 28.6 percent shooting from the field, which was the lowest shoot­ing percentage of a Big East opponent in a half this sea­son. 
The Mountaineers’ cold shooting would not carry over to the second half, how­ever, as West Virginia shot 54 percent from the field in the closing period and used a 19­8 run to open the second half that put it ahead for good. 
After scores from fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis and senior forward Carleton Scott to open the second half, Mountaineers junior guard Darryl “Truck” Bryant hit a 3-pointer to tie the game at 
31. On the ensuing posses­sion, senior guard Joe Mazzulla made a layup to put the Mountaineers ahead for good. Following his layup, Mazzulla found Bryant for another three -pointer to extend the West Virginia lead to 36-31. Bryant finished with 24 points in the game while Mazzulla added 16. 

Throughout the second half, the Irish continued to battle back, but the Mountaineers seemed to answer each time Notre Dame cut into the lead. With just under 13 minutes to play in the game, senior forward Tyrone Nash hit a layup to pull the Irish within five, the closest they would come to regaining the lead after Bryant put the Mountaineers ahead. West Virginia answered right back on the next possession, however, as junior forward Kevin Jones hit a 3-pointer to put West Virginia up by eight. 
“We tried to make a couple rounds, but they hit some big shots,” Brey said. “Guys hit big threes at key times to make us never feel we could close the gap. They were really good today.” 
The Irish struggled with foul trouble in the game, as Abromaitis and senior guard Ben Hansbrough, who led the Irish with 19 points, both fouled out while Martin had four fouls. 
Notre Dame returns to the court on Wednesday when it hits the road again to face Providence. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


Monday, February 21, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 

JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, February 21, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Mountain blues 
Notre Dame experiences 

frstdefeatineightgames  
By MIKE GOTIMER  
Sports Writer  
No. 8 Notre Dame’s seven- 
game winning streak came to  
a h a l t S a t ur d a y a fte r t h e  
I ris h ’s 72-5 8 lo ss t o We s t  
Virginia.  
The Irish (21-5, 10-4 Big  
East), who led 27-26 at the  
half, had won their previous  
17 games in which they led at  
the half. The Mountaineers  
(17-9, 8-6), however, needed  
a s t a t e m e n t w i n ov e r a  
ranked opponent to improve  
t h e i r N C A A To u r na m e n t  
résumé and used a 46-point  
second half to get it. Irish  
c o ac h M i k e B r e y k new i t  
w o u l d b e t ou gh t o w i n i n  
Morgantown.  
“Second shots hurt us at key  
times, specifically in the first  
five minutes of the second  
half,” Brey said. “We didn't  
defend as well, we didn’t con- JULIE HERDER/The Observer  
see BREY/page 18  Senior guard Scott Mar tin attempts Louisville Feb. 9.  a  shot during  a  89-79 over time win against  

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish fall to powerful Wildcats 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fell to 1-2 on the sea­son with its second straight loss to a nationally ranked opponent on Saturday. No. 2 Northwestern defeated the No. 10 Irish 14-11 in the Loftus Center behind three goals from sophomore Erin Fitzgerald and nine saves from junior goal­keeper Brianne LoManto, as the Wildcats continued to torment the Irish after knocking them out of the NCAA tournament last season. 
Junior attack Maggie Tamasitis paced the Irish offense with five points and four assists, matching career highs. Her day was not enough to overcome Northwestern’s 22-5 advantage on draws, which allowed the Wildcats to dominate possession the entire game. Notre Dame head coach Tracy Coyne was frustrated with the loss but could not fault her team’s effort. 
see WILDCATS/page 16 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame takes down Duke in title game rematch 
By MEGAN GOLDEN Sports Writer  made four saves, and Duke g o a l i e D a n W i g r i z e r a l s o r e c o r d e d f o u r s a v e s . B o t h  high five points, but he was was pleased with the team’s q u i c k t o c r e d i t h i s t e a m -overall performance. mates for their performance. “I thought we did a really  spectacular performance by the Irish defense against a lively Duke offense.  
offenses, though, came on in  “I really benefited from  a  great job in the first quarter  “I  am  especially proud of  
In  a  rematch of last  sea-the second quarter.  long day of good things all  o f  b a t t l i n g  u n t i l  i t  r e a l l y  the defense and goalie John  
son’s national championship  The Irish quickly trailed 2­ d a y, ”  B r e n n e m a n  s a i d .  o p e n e d  u p , ”  h e  s a i d .  “ I  Kemp,” he said. “For them to  
game, the No. 6 Irish domi­ 0 in the second quarter, but  “There  were  a  lot of other  thought  we  did really well  s t o p  a  t e a m  l i k e  t h i s  t h a t  
nated No. 5 Duke for  a  12-7  thanks to two first half goals  people doing good things.”  the whole day.”  s c o r e d  2 0  g o a l s  a  w e e k  
victory in their season open- b y  j u n i o r  a t t a c k  S e a n  Notre Dame led 7-4 head- Stepping into the shoes of  before, that  was  huge. They  
er at the inaugural Sunshine  Rogers, Notre Dame carried  i n g  i n t o t h e f i n a l q u a r t e r,  graduated goalkeeper Scott  stepped up.”  
Classic in Jacksonville, Fla.,  a  4-2 lead into the second  d u r i n g  w h i c h  t h e y  n e t t e d  Rodgers, who now plays pro- T h e  I r i s h  d e f e n s e  t o o k  
as  the Notre Dame offense  half.  five goals to finish the victo­ f e s s i o n a l  l a c r o s s e ,  I r i s h  advantage of the Blue Devil’s  
came  to life in  a  big way in  Irish senior midfielder and  r y.  T h e  I r i s h  t o t a l e d  3 8  g o ali e J oh n K e mp s t e p p e d  15 turnovers in the game.  
the fourth quarter.  co-captain Zach Brenneman  shots, while the Blue Devils  up for Notre Dame and gath­ “We tried  to  manufacture  
In the first quarter sopho­ led the team with three goals  h ad 32 shots in the ga me .  ered 10  saves  in the victory.  
m o r e  g o a l i e  J o h n  K e m p  and two assists for a career- Irish coach Kevin Corrigan  Brenneman pointed  out  the  see DUKE/page 18  

HOCKEY 

Irish remain in CCHA lead 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Going into their weekend series with Ferris State, the No. 10 Irish only needed one point between the two games to clinch home-ice in the sec­ond round of the CCHA play­offs. They got that point — and five more — with two strong goaltending perform­ances from sophomore Mike Johnson and freshman Steven Summerhays and balanced goal scoring in a sweep of the Bulldogs in Big Rapids, Mich. 
“I was really pleased with the way we played. I thought Ferris came out with a lot of jump on Friday night, gave us some real problems,” Irish 
see JACKSON/page 17 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame loses to Huskies 78-57 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
In January, Connecticut’s NCAA record 90-game win­ning streak had just been snapped, and the Irish were trying to give the Huskies their second loss in three games. The strong effort of the Huskies in the final two minutes led to a 79-76 vic­tory in a heartbreaking defeat for Notre Dame. 
This time, Connecticut dominated throughout the contest and denied the Irish a chance for revenge. 
Huskies guard Bria Hartley exploded for 29 points and five assists in the contest. The freshman made 10 of her 16 attempts from the field, including a 5-9 effort from behind the arc. Her performance in the second half helped No. 2 Connecticut (26-1, 13-0 Big East) pull away from the No. 8 Irish (22-5, 11-2) for a 78-57 victory in Storrs, Conn. 
“We obviously did a poor job guarding [Hartley], ” Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. “She was open in transition and made some important buckets for them.” 
The Irish frontcourt, which has performed at 
see IRISH/page 17 





