
Arts and Letters sees decline in enrollment 
By JOHN CAMERON to a lesser degree in sciences, the job market and misplaced College of Arts and Letters are “People think if they major News Writer and the sharp increase in busi-concerns about the suitability not able to add a supplemen-in English, for example, they ness,” McGreevy said. “It’s re-of a liberal arts major com-tary major in business, he said. won’t find a good job, but our The College of Arts and Let-ally [the Mendoza College of] pared to the necessity of a busi-McGreevy said the perceived English majors get all types ters at Notre Dame has seen Business where the growth is.” ness degree. limitations on an Arts and Let-of different jobs,” he said. “If the greatest decline in enroll-In 2008, 35 percent of stu-“It’s as complex as the eco-ters graduate are unfounded you want to go to professional ment over the past few years as dents declared a major in Arts nomic crisis and job anxiety, as worried students are misled or graduate school, we have students choose to pursue busi-and Letters at the end of their Mendoza’s No. 1 ranking and into pursuing majors deemed a lot of people doing that. For ness over the liberal arts, Dean first year, while 29 percent the structural issue where stu-more practical. students looking into full-time of the College John McGreevy chose to enter Mendoza. By dents from business can double “The data on Arts and Let-service, we have a lot of stu­said. 2010, the portion of students major in Arts and Letters but ters students getting jobs is dents doing that. Or those go-
While the decline has been choosing liberal arts majors not the other way around,” he really encouraging,” he said. ing into the paid labor force, we gradual, McGreevy said the had declined to 27 percent, and said. “Unemployment isn’t any dif-have a lot of students doing that trend is concerning. the fraction electing business Students who enroll in the ferent between students in Arts too.” 
“Last year’s enrollment was had risen to 34 percent, ac-Mendoza College of Business and Letters and business.” McGreevy said he hoped not that different [from this cording to a First Year of Stud-have the option of adding a sec-McGreevy dismissed the no-more students caught up in the year’s], but we are worried ies report. ond major in the College of Arts tion that business majors have trend toward business-ori about the decline in enroll-McGreevy attributed the and Letters, while students more professional flexibility ment in Arts and Letters, and trend to students’ fears about whose primary major is in the than Arts and Letters students. see COLLEGE/page 5 
Memoir tells story of a leader’s life 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
With a lifetime of stories, Uni­versity President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy said he had an obligation to write them down. 
“Anyone in a leadership posi­tion has an obligation to leave some account of his or her lead­ership,” he said. 
The second volume of Malloy’s three-volume memoir, “Monk’s Tale: Way Stations on the Jour­ney,” was published this month by the University of Notre Dame Press, according to a University press release. 
This volume focuses on Mal­loy’s time spent at the University from 1974 to 1986, the years pre­ceding his tenure as president. 
“Monk Malloy’s candid and re­vealing book could well be titled ‘The Making of A Catholic Col­lege President,’” Columbia Uni­versity’s Joseph Califano, Jr. said in a review. “It is a moving story of Monk’s personal growth from priest and professor to president of Notre Dame. 


“Along the way, Monk provides a rare inside look at Catholic higher education in America and its bruising battles with the Vati­can over the meaning of Catholic identity in our pluralistic society,” he said. “It’s a story that makes you proud to be a Catholic.” 
The positive feedback and re­views are gratifying, Malloy said. 
“I never set out to write a New York Times bestseller,” he said. “I meant to tell my story.” 
The book, though not yet a bestseller, begins to tell its story with the cover image. A younger Malloy, basketball mid-dribble, plays on the basketball courts that used to be behind Walsh Hall during “Monk’s Hoops,” a regu­lar, informal basketball game he
held throughout his time as pro­fessor and president. 
“I look a lot younger then than 


see MONK/page 5 
SMC hosts activities night 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Hundreds of students crowded Library Green Wednesday evening to at­tend the first outdoor Activ­ity Fair at Saint Mary’s Col­lege. 
A variety of clubs and organizations sponsored booths to recruit new mem­bers from the Saint Mary’s community. 
Student Government Cam­pus Clubs Commissioner Cassie Palmer, along with the staff of the Student In­volvement and Multicultural 
see ACTIVITIES/page 6 


Police, community and students discuss safety 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
With the football season fast approaching, students and community members had the opportunity to ask a panel of po­lice representatives questions concerning underage drinking, safety and off-campus parties at the annual Student Safety Summit Wednesday. 
“We really do want students to know that we are really con­cerned for their safety, and police departments are con­cerned for your safety,” Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) Sergeant Keri Kei Shibata said. 
The Safety Summit, which featured the Saint Joseph County Sheriff and represen­tatives from NDSP, the South Bend Police Department and the Indiana Excise Police, em­phasized cooperation between the University and police en­forcement. 
“How the police treat you will be dictated by how you treat the police, ” St. Joseph County Sheriff Mike Grzegorek said. 
NDSP Assistant Director Dave Chapman said students play an important role in safety on campus. 
“Take care of each other … If you see something out of the or­dinary call us,” he said. “We’d rather show up for 99 false alarms than miss one real one.” 
Chapman said students also can prevent most on-campus crime by locking their doors and not letting strangers into their dorms, as almost all thefts do not involve forced entry. 
“Notre Dame students are the nicest around … [Burglars] just stand outside the door un­til a student comes up to swipe their card, they say their girl­friend lives inside,” Chapman said. “Then they go in and try doors until they find one that’s unlocked.” 
Chapman also said if someone 


see SAFETY/page 3 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor researches mothers and babies page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u In Euphoric Company page 10 u Women’s soccer goalies page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Thursday, September 1, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE DANCE MOVE AND CAN YOU DO IT? 










www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Emily Schrank  Andrew Owens  
Anna Boarini  Cory Bernard  
Tori Roeck  Vicky Jacobsen  
Graphics  Scene  
Elisa De Castro  Alex Kilpatrick  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Mackenzie Sain  Amber Galik  

Cathy Ryan Murphy  Chris Wynkoop  Emily  Alex La  
Chukwulebe junior  grad student  Geiger-Medina  freshman  
sophomore Alumni  off-campus  freshman  Sorin  
Walsh  Breen Phillips  
“Stanky Leg  “The Bus  “The Worm  
“The Shopping ... yeah ... oh  Driver, and yes  “The Jerk, but  and no I cannot  
Cart” yeah!”  I can do it.”  I’m not good at  do it.”  
it!”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Boston public bathroom turns into sandwich shop
   BOSTON — A former bathroom in the nation’s oldest public park is being converted into a sandwich shop. 
The 660-square-foot Pink Palace restroom was built on Boston Common in the 1920s. It hasn’t been used as a restroom since the 1970s. 
Boston officials an­nounced Wednesday that Mayor Thomas Menino signed a 15-year lease with the Orlando, Fla.-based Earl of Sandwich chain for a takeout operation at the site. 
Earl of Sandwich will pay $50,000 annually. It will renovate the interior of the mausoleum-like structure for use as a kitchen, with storage and prep areas. 

The goal is to open the shop as early as next spring. 
The Boston Common was set aside as public land in 1640. The restroom is called the Pink Palace because of the pinkish hue of its ma­sonry. 
Atheists say they get kudos for church billboard 
MANSFIELD, Ohio — An Ohio atheist group says it has been commended by some people for a billboard put up by a church’s pastor. 
The road sign in Mans­field features the statement “There is no God” in capital letters. Below that, it says, “Don’t believe everything you hear.” 
Pastor Frank Moore of McElroy Road Church of Christ tells the Mansfield News Journal he wanted to honor God with an ad that would get people thinking. He says he remembered how his parents always advised him not to believe every­thing people told him. 
The Mansfield-based Mid Ohio Atheists says it has been contacted and con­gratulated by people incor­rectly thinking it put up the billboard. The group says it wants to thank the church for, as the atheists say, “ad­vertising our thoughts.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF
   The film “Meek’s Cutoff” about the early days of the Oregon Trail will be shown in the DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center today at 
6:30 p.m. and tonight at 
9:30p.m. Tickets are $3 for students.
   Professional pianist Paivi Ekroth will be performing a free piano recital tonight at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The recital, sponsored by the Department of Music, will feature works by Bach, Beethoven and Brahms. 
   There will be an inter­est meeting for Baraka Bouts, the women’s boxing tournament that helps fight poverty in east Africa, to­night at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
   The LaFortune Student Center will host a free Open House tonight at 10 p.m. where students can tour the building and meet the students and staff in offices and departments there. Free food and prizes will be available for students. 
   There will be an Iron Sharpens Iron Interdenom­inational Ministry meeting tonight at 10 p.m. in 329 Coleman-Morse Center. 
   There will be a Protestant Student Welcome Session tonight at 11:15 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 







CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thursday, September 1, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



CWIL celebrates 10th anniversary 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
2011 marks the 10th anni­versary of the Center for Wom­en’s Intercultural Leadership (CWIL), which educates women at Saint Mary’s College and de­velops their leadership skills. 
The center was founded in 2001 with a grant from the Lil­ly Endowment, CWIL Director Elaine Meyer-Lee, said. 
“The Lilly Endowment was giving out a series of transfor­mation grants to build upon a college’s strengths,” she said. “We have 

“We have a long history of 
a long history multiple dis-
of women’s women’s and intercultural ciplines, but and intercul-leadership and this center focuses on tural leader-allows us to foster the women’s stud-ship and this intercultural competence ies, leadership center allows that is so critical to and intercul­
us to foster the tural educa­
the next generation 
intercultural tion. The 
of women leaders.” 
competence conference that is so criti-brings guest 
Elaine Meyer-Lee 
cal to the next speakers, film generation of CWIL Director series and 
ences, mentoring and a self-de­signed project. 
“This [intercultural leader­ship certificate] is an umbrella that brings together in an e-portfolio all the work a student has done in a concrete way to show future employers or grad­uate schools how they are an in­tercultural leader,” Meyer-Lee said. 
CWIL is also responsible for a variety of on campus events each year.  They host a bi-an­nual Women’s Intercultural Leadership Conference that creates a forum for dia­logue across 
women lead­ers.” 
Meyer -Lee said CWIL of­fers the Saint Mary’s community a variety of events on campus, as well as study abroad programs and re­search opportunities. 
The Center is based around the core components of leader­ship education, global educa­tion and research, she said. 
Some initiatives, like the Women’s Entrepreneurship Ini­tiative, give students the ability to work with a female business owner in the community and create a business plan, Meyer-Lee said. 
CWIL also works with in­coming international students, sponsors the Around the World Club and has grants available for both study abroad and un­dergraduate research, she said. 
In addition, CWIL sponsors the certificate in intercultural leadership, Meyer-Lee said. This certificate brings together courses, study abroad experi­artists togeth­
er to discuss 
these issues. 
Meyer-Lee 
said CWIL is unique because of its interdis­ciplinary nature. 
“We really do have connec­tions with all the departments across campus,” she said. “The wide range of research is excit­ing,” she said. “It’s a very un­usual combination — the inter­section of gender and culture in one center.” 
While CWIL truly believes in their intercultural mission, Meyer-Lee said it also complete­ly supports the Catholic mission of both the College and the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross. 
“Throughout our history we have connected with them,” Meyer-Lee said. “We feel in­debted to them, they have been involved in intercultural lead­ership and education from the very beginning.” 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


McKenna researches breastfeeding 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 

Breastfeeding might be more important for a child’s health, and possibly even survival, than many people realize. 
Jim McKenna, professor of Anthropology and director of the Mother-Baby Behav­ioral Sleep Laboratory, said a study showed about 70 per­cent of white women breast­feed, while only about 26 to 30 percent of African-American women do. 
For every six white babies that die in St. Joseph County, 30 African-American babies die, he said. 
McKenna called this statistic “shocking.” 
That’s why on Thursday, in collaboration with nursing staff at Memorial Hospital and Women, Infants and Children (WIC) professionals, McKenna will begin a research project to determine why black women in the area don’t breastfeed. The team will hold a series of focus groups downtown with Afri­can-American women of vary­ing ages, pregnant, with and without babies. 
“It could be an economic factor, work issues, family is­sues,” McKenna said. “We’re really trying to figure out in a local way what seems to be the constraints that confront our citizens here.” 
McKenna said not all deaths are related to bottle-feeding, but feeding choice is one pos­sible factor that could help ex­plain the significant disparity in survival between white and black babies. 
The project is called Health Disparities in St. Joseph Coun­ty: Understanding Why Black Women Don’t Breastfeed, and is funded through the Ganey Community Grant. 
McKenna said the proj­ect has been in the works for about a year and a half. It was the hospital’s original plan and idea, and he was invited to be a part of the team. 
The project isn’t just theo­retical — McKenna said it’s in­tended to be applied. 
“The real purpose of this is to actually implement a pro­gram based on these findings,” he said. “More education, may­be some things the county can put money toward to promote the ability of black women to decide to breastfeed.” 
McKenna said that poverty and routines of the daily work­force might be one reason why black women do not breast feed. Women in poverty are often forced to be away from home to work, making it ex­tremely difficult to breastfeed. 
“It could be that this poverty issue doesn’t create the kind of stability that permits people to be able to commit to this particular behavior,” he said. “It’s very difficult to be able to breastfeed their babies under these kind of circumstances.” 
He also said there could be a cultural element to the prob­lem. Though purely specula­tive, he said breastfeeding might have negative associa­tions for black women, dating back to when they were forced to breastfeed the children of white slave owners. 
“That heresy has a legacy that can be passed on from generation to generation,” he said. 
Studies have shown, McKen­na said, that across all ethnic groups and religious groups, as the economic status of a woman increases, so does the likelihood that she breast­feeds. 
McKenna said breastfeeding benefits the health of both the mother and the baby. 
“[It] establishes a better at­tachment relationship, con­tributes to immunity baby’s lifetime, helps prevent breast cancer,” he said. “That’s really great for moms.” 
He said there are even some suggestions that breast milk helps prevent certain kinds of childhood cancers. 
McKenna recently sent an email asking students for help in conducting the discussion sessions. 
He said he was initially wor­ried not many students would volunteer, but he received an “overwhelming response” from students. 
“I’m just so thrilled,” he said. “I must have had about 35 re­sponses within an hour. People are very interested in the is­sue, I was very impressed with the lovely kinds of statements students [made.]” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
frey Walters said. 
All of the police departments emphasized the importance of positive relationships with students, saying Notre Dame parties and students are not targeted on purpose. 
Walters said South Bend Police always go to parties in response to neighbor com­plaints. 
“We’d rather be doing other things,” Walters said. 
Although with the upcom­ing football game, many stu­dents may be suspicious of the Excise Police, Indiana Excise Police Sgt. Aly Taylor said they are not targeting the Univer­sity, just doing their job. 
“We’re not here to pick on Notre Dame,” Taylor said. “We are here to regulate and en­force tobacco and alcohol laws for the state of Indiana.” 
The panel urged underage students to be honest and up­front with the police. 
“Don’t flee,” Taylor said. “Don’t lock the door. Don’t hide inside for three hours.” 
Respectful students are more likely to get off with a warning, and failing to co­operate by either lying about identification or trying to flee make programs that can clear criminal records impossible, Gregorek said. 
“Your best bet is to admit your wrongdoing because ly­ing makes it worse,” Grzeg­orek said. 
As the first game of the sea­son approaches, Grzegorek said it is important for stu­dents to remember they repre­sent the University. 
Notre Dame opens its sea­son Saturday against South Florida. 
Contact abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 

Safety 
continued from page 1 

needs medical attention or if a sexual assault has occurred, underage students should not hesitate to call NDSP.
 “We don’t care about your intoxication, we care about getting you help,” Chapman said. 
Members of the panel said students also put themselves at risk by walking at night. Taking a taxi is always safer than being on foot, as intoxi­cated students make easy tar­gets, they said. 
“Criminals in town know the routes home from bars and parties,” Shibata said. “They may be hanging out in those areas waiting.” 
Members of the panel said if walking is the only option, never do it alone, and if con­fronted by a stranger, avoid acting scared. 
“Look them in the eye, don’t let them make you look in­timidated,” South Bend Police Department Division Chief Jef­


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS XXXX, XXXX XX, 2011 Thursday, September 1, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 


College 
continued from page 1 

“One thing we’re pushing is economics, which is our fast­est growing major,” he said. “I think it’s a fantastic major, it’s really rigorous.” 
As Notre Dame is one of only a few prestigious universities offering an undergraduate business program, McGreevy said the Ivy League gives proof 
to the successes of liberal arts majors. 
“Most places don’t actu­ally have undergraduate busi­ness. Look at Harvard, Yale or Princeton,” he said. “The history and political science and classics majors still all do well.” 
McGreevy said he worries students who prioritize what they think will benefit their careers, rather than their minds, may regret it later. 
“I get really sad when I hear someone 20 years out of col­lege say they wish they had studied something else,” he said. “You only get one chance at college.” 
McGreevy said any Notre Dame student graduates with the skills necessary to achieve professionally. 
“The most important piece of advice is to study what you love, what will make you work hard,” he said. “Our students are competitive with any oth­ers in the country.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Senate sets goals for academic year 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate kicked off the school year with a meet­ing at Irish Green Wednesday evening, away from its usual home in LaFortune Student Center. 
“I believe this is the first Senate meeting ever at Irish Green, so you can check that off your bucket list,” student body president Pat McCor­mick said. 
The group spent their time discussing goals the various committees have for the year. 
Jason Lovell, University Affairs chair, updated the other members on the De-Bartolo Hall lounge renova­tion. Although the University ran into problems with con­tractors and materials this summer, he said hopefully it would not set the project back too far. 
“It still looks like it will be ready for use in mid to late September, with a few oth­er things being added after that,” Lovell said. 
Lovell said his committee is also looking into setting up an alternative-style debate to promote college leadership. 
“It could be between quads or dorms,” he said. “It would be in a political debate style, on issues that we could get sponsored by USA Today or The New York Times.” 
Social Concerns Chair El­len Carroll said her commit­tee will promote a “Home Be­yond the Dome” theme for the school year. 
“We’re thinking about the kind of legacy we want to leave behind,” Carroll said. “We want to be a welcoming community, not just to stu-
Monk 
continued from page 1 
I do now,” he said with a laugh. “The editors wanted this pic­ture because it captures a bit of my years. I could have a pic­ture of me in the classroom, or some big meeting, but they thought this was representa­tive of the spirit of the book.” 
Malloy said this volume pro­gresses chronologically, like the first volume, but some­times breaks out of the chro­nology to talk about a specific subject, like his time spent liv­ing in Sorin College or his time in external projects, such as Ex Corde Ecclesiae, an apos­tolic constitution for Catholic universities penned by Pope John Paul II. 
“When you’re reliving your life, you see the friendships, the decisive processes that led you down one path,” he said. “For example, one of the main reasons I added the external activities to this volume is so I could focus the entirety of vol­ume three on my time as presi­dent.” 
The next volume will be ready in about two years, Mal­loy said. 
“The first two volumes are paving the way for the third,” he said. “The motivation for the project always was to share a bit of my perspective dents on campus, but to our neighbors in South Bend and to other college communi­ties.” 
Carroll also mentioned the possibility of a series of events commemorating the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11. Potential events include hold­ing a outdoor mass at night and screening Divided We Fall,” a film about the hate crimes that occurred in the aftermath of Sept. 11. 
The goal of the Constitu­ent Services committee is to improve communications be­tween the student body and student government, Chair Heather Eaton said. 
“We want people to feel like they can communicate with us and we can answer, not just that they e-mail us and we say ‘thanks’ and then they never hear anything back,” she said. 
Eaton said the first Whine Wednesday of the school year will take place Wednesday, and the theme will be resi­dence life and university af­fairs. 
Residence Life Chair John Sanders said his commit­tee is planning on tackling a few different issues this year. A Flex-10 meal plan is one idea being thrown around. Under this plan, students would receive only ten meals per week, but they would be given a greater amount of flex points. 
“I’m working on getting each member of the com­mittee to work on a sepa­rate thing,” Sanders said. “Regardless of how small it seems, if you want to do it, you should try.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
on my years at Notre Dame.” 
Malloy said his favorite part of this volume is his chapter on Sorin College. 
“I had a lot of material to work with,” he said. 
Malloy just celebrated his 32nd year living in the dorm. 
“It’s a mix of moving, per­sonal and fun stories,” he said. “It is part of the allure of the residential tradition of Notre Dame.” 
Malloy said this portion of his memoir fits well with another work written about residential life — former Sorin College Rector Fr. James King’s book, “Known By Name: Inside the Halls of Notre Dame,” which tells similar tales of residence life on campus. 
“In a sense, what I did was complimentary to his book,” he said. 
Malloy said some sections, such as the residence life chapter, would speak to every­one, while others will attract a very specific reader. 
“All autobiography is an op­portunity for someone to share his or her life,” he said. 
“I’m teaching a course this semester on autobiography and biography that I’ve taught many years as a First Year Seminar. They all have to write their biography. Essentially, I’m doing the same thing.” 
Contact amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Thursday, September 1, 2011 
U.S.prepares for anniversary of 9/11 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — As the na­tion prepares for the 10-year anniversary of the 9/11 attacks 
— a date al-Qaida has cited as a potential opportunity to strike again — security is in­tensifying at airports, train stations, nuclear plants and major sporting arenas around the country. 
“At this point there is no spe­cific credible threat, but that doesn’t mean we are relaxing at all in terms of our vigilance,” said John Brennan, President Barack Obama’s homeland se­curity and counterterrorism adviser. 
“We are concerned about the lone actors that are out there, we are concerned that al-Qa­ida or others may try to take advantage of the 9/11 anniver­sary events,” Brennan told The Associated Press on Wednes­day. 
“We’re looking at all differ­ent angles — what might have been planned for a while, we’re still looking for indications that there might be something out there, but we are very in­terested in seeing whether or not there’s any indication whatsoever of a lone actor and that’s much more difficult to pick up.” 
The security ramp-up around the country under­scores a shift in policing fo­cus since the attacks a decade ago. Officers and emergency responders have been trained in detecting suspicious activ­ity that could uncover a ter­ror plot, aware that the threat has changed in part from an organized large-scale attack using airliners as missiles to the potential for smaller, less sophisticated operations car­ried out by affiliated groups or individuals. 
Metropolitan areas are on alert. 
“Throughout the city, wheth­er it’s the ports or the airports or venues or whatever, you will see an increase in aware­ness, an increase in resources at strategic places,” said Mark Eisenman, assistant chief over the homeland security com­mand for the Police Depart­ment in Houston, home to the country’s largest port. “We are certainly aware of the threats and the concerns, and we’re much more willing to share in­formation than probably ever in the past.” 
Some of the first information gleaned from Osama bin Lad­en’s compound after he was killed in May indicated that, as recently as February 2010, al-Qaida considered plans to attack the U.S. on the 10th an­niversary of the 9/11 airliner strikes. But counterterrorism officials say they believe that planning never got beyond the initial phase and they have no recent intelligence pointing to an active plot. 
On Wednesday, vendors at Los Angeles’ regional transit hub, Union Station, were being briefed by law enforcement on ways to be aware of suspicious activities over the next few weeks, said Commander Pat Jordan, chief of the transit ser­vices bureau at the L.A. County Sheriff’s Department. 
There will be increased law enforcement presence on L.A. transit systems during the “threat window,” with bomb sniffing dogs, and random bag­gage searches, he said, adding, “You can’t be complacent.” 
Transit employees in L.A., like riders around the coun­try, are told that if they see something, they should say something. And three weeks ago, the department held an exercise with an active shooter scenario similar to the tactics terrorists used in the deadly 2008 attacks in Mumbai. In the transit environment, Jor­dan said, some of the greatest threats could come from gun­men and the use of explosives hidden in backpacks. 
“Our role at the local level has become much more im­portant over the past year, as we realized the potential for the insider, domestic threat 
— somebody who is already here in the United States,” said Washington Metropolitan Po­lice Department Chief Cathy Lanier. These insiders, already living inside the country, would have a shorter planning cycle than a terrorist organization plotting to attack the U.S. from overseas, she said, and there­fore local law enforcement of­ficers are critical in catching a plot in their community before it’s too late. 
In Phoenix, police will be do­ing more patrols around the region’s nuclear power plant, airports and other critical sites that, if attacked, could affect the city, said Bill Wick­ers, sergeant at the homeland defense bureau of the Phoenix Police Department. Messages on the department’s internal television station include re­minders of what constitutes suspicious activity, such as someone making drawing a di­agram of a piece of important infrastructure or someone wearing a heavy coat while it’s 115 degrees outside. 
“The heat’s been turned up,” Wickers said. 
And there’s a rapid response team of hazardous material technicians, special weapons and tactics and bomb opera­tors ready to go, Wickers said, adding that the city used fed­eral money that became avail­able after 9/11 to help fund that team and other counter-terrorism measures. 
In Florida, there will be ex­tended staffing at the state’s fusion center — an intelli­gence-sharing operation es­tablished after 9/11 that places law enforcement from around the state, as well as represen­tatives from the FBI, Home­land Security Department and Transportation Security Ad­ministration in one building, said the center’s director, Rob­ert LeFiles. 
The police chief in Arling­ton, Va., home to the Pentagon, which was attacked on 9/11, called the weeks surround­ing the anniversary a time of heightened awareness. 
“Ten years ago changed the world for us, and we should all be consciously aware of what’s going on around us,” said Douglas Scott. 
New Yorkers will see more police officers on patrol in and around ground zero, where the World Trade Center tow­ers stood, said Police Depart­ment spokesman Paul Browne. The department also plans an increased show of force in the subways, always considered a potential terror target. 
April. Seniors Mona Rodriguez 
Activities 
and Arianne Rodriguez are 

continued from page 1 co-presidents of the club and 
were prompted to start Femi-Services (SIMS) Office, was nists United after taking a responsible for planning the Women’s Studies course. event. “We were both in Women’s 
“Activities Night is a chance Studies last fall and we real-for all the student clubs, as ized being an all women’s in-well as academic depart-stitution that we didn’t have ments and any sort of community feminist outreach or-club,” Mona ganizations, Rodriguez to showcase said. “We their work found it a 
in an ef-“It was a good way to disservice to fort to boost get involved and get our school.” member-out of my room.” In addition ship and in-to hosting volvement,” discussions 
Matie Ohms 
Palmer, a and guest 
first year 
senior, said. speakers on This year, women’s is-we have a sues, Femi­wide range nists United of clubs also works and orga-with the nization s Young Wom­not only from Saint Mary’s, en’s Christian Association and but also Notre Dame and the the Belles Against Violence South Bend community at-Office to provide students with tending the event.” an opportunity to be involved 
The Activity Fair also fea-both on campus and in the tured many clubs and orga-community, Mona Rodriguez nizations new to campus this said. year, Palmer said. “We’re about activism. 
Feminists United is a new We’re not just going to talk club that was approved in about women’s issues, but we want to do something about them,” Arianne Rodriguez said. 

School Age Mother’s Pen Pal Program is another orga­nization new to campus this year. The program pairs Saint Mary’s students with a high school-aged young mother in the area. 
“I just wanted to create a role model to inspire girls and empower young mothers in our community,” junior and president of the program Lau­ra Corrigan said. 
First year Grace Harvey at­tended the Activity Fair and explored Italian Club, Friends with Sisters and Healthy Body, Healthy Mind. 
“I’m interested in nutrition, especially being healthy in college,” Harvey said. 
Other students signed up for clubs pertaining to their ma­jors. 
First year Cecily Medina, who hopes to become an en­gineer, took interest in the Society for Women Engineers, while first year Matie Ohms signed up for Dance Marathon and Math Club. 
“It was a good way to get involved and get out of my room,” Ohms said. 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 

XXXX, XXXX XX, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 Thursday, September 1, 2011 

The Jurgen Era 
It’s finally here. He’s finally here. Could you imagine waiting for Santa Claus for five years — knowing that he really is coming one day — but just not know­ing when? 
Well he’s finally here — equipped with an Augustus Gloop accent — with a long-awaited present for Sam’s Army, presents for the likes of 


Andrew Gastelum 
Landon Donovan and Clint Dempsey 

Sports Writer 
and presently in charge of every­thing U.S. Soccer. 

Jurgen Klinsmann has arrived, the German coach who famously led his kinsman to third place at the 2006 World Cup with a group of kids who could have been classified into two categories: who-is-that and what-are-they-doing-here. 
The move created a buzz bigger than Mesut Ozil’s eyes and a mood more in­tense than Donovan’s death glare. Why? Because we finally got him. 
Immediately after the 2006 World Cup, the shallow high-school relationship be­tween Klinsmann and U.S. Soccer began. Talking here, courting there, rumors swirling above, genuine intent within, but still no deal. 
So what did U.S. Soccer President Sunil Gulati do when Klinsmann asked for total control of the program? He hired Bob Bradley. Yeah, that’ll show him, hire the coach of Chivas USA. Sure Bradley’s team’s provided some of the greatest memories American soccer fans will ever posses, but did Bradley? 
Let’s start with the classic Landon Donovan goal to put the U.S. through to the knockout stages. It was definitely a great moment, but it was against Algeria and it took them 90 minutes to score against the group’s last place team. 
How about that huge comeback against Slovenia at last year’s World Cup? Due to tactical and borderline-idiotic positional issues (such as start­ing Donovan at central mid-fielder), the 
U.S.
 was down 2-0 early against a weak Slovenian team that barely got into the World Cup in the first place. The 1-1 “win” against powerhouse England? The 

U.S.
 was shut out on their own accord, needing a beautiful assist from British goalkeeper Robert Green to score. 


That era of American soccer — or lack thereof — needed a change, an infusion of foreign genius that truly understood the game, yet more importantly, the American game. Klinsmann lives in Cali­fornia and even served as a consultant to Toronto FC in the MLS. But now he has come, and the future of U.S. Soccer looks like a bar of Kinder chocolate: sweet with a good mix of German intuition and American manufacturing. Never has it looked this optimistic, not with the silent Bradley, nor with the five-year old accent of his predecessor Bruce Arena. 
Soccer has turned a corner in this country. It’s not there yet, but just hir­ing Klinsmann shows that U.S. Soccer is serious now, ready to compete. They could have just hired another MLS coach (Carlos de los Cobos anyone?). 
Who knows, this place could turn into a soccer country after all. Don’t think so? Just look at the millions of Facebook statuses and tweets from the Women’s World Cup final. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

These strangers are the friends you haven’t met yet 
“From Christ the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part does its work.” (Ephesians 4:15-16) 
All of us here have known the common, uncomfortable experience of arriving here on campus as a stranger: Those first days of moving in, traveling with a pack of other rookies to one planned activity after another, surreptitiously glancing at a campus map 
to make sure that first weekend here  Kate Barrett  DeBartolo is, in fact, “over that way.” I remember looking down North Quad during my and marveling, “I can look around at about 200 people right now and I haven’t known a  
single one of them We all long to feel  Faithpoint  for more than a day or two.” welcome when we become part of a new community. There’s nothing more awkward  
than feeling that  you’re the only one in the room with no one to talk to, the only one who doesn’t get the  

joke, understand the tradition or know at least most of the other people. But sometimes the hardest part is getting started: the of­fering or accepting of invitations, the trying of new things while surrounded by new roommates, classmates or teammates. 
St. Benedict of Nursia, a monk from sixth century Italy, basically invented the concept of a monastery, a place where men or women could live in community and commit themselves to God and to each other. To guide the monks who followed him, Benedict wrote a book which directed the Benedictines in their individual lives and, perhaps even more importantly, in how to live well together. 
Many other monastic communities and guidebooks have flourished since Benedict’s, but even after 1500 years, “The Rule of St. Benedict” remains the most influential monastic guide in all of Christianity. 
One of St. Benedict’s highest priorities included the insistence on making his monasteries places of hospitality. One of his most famous rules regards the importance of welcome: “All guests who arrive should be received as Christ, for he himself will say, ‘I was a stranger and you took me in.’” 
Remember the awkward kid in high school who always seemed to get left behind when the group would mobilize? Maybe you were that not-quite-included person, or maybe you were part of the pack who left that person behind. Maybe, on the other hand, you were the brave soul who dared to go back and invite the loner to join the gang. Every day — probably many times a day — each one of us has an opportunity to offer a welcome, to invite, to make our community bigger and better and stronger, simply by how we treat each other. 
Yet forming true community takes work. It’s one thing to cheerfully greet your friends on the quad or to give directions with an enthusiastic smile to the sight-seers who have wandered on to campus or the South Florida fans who will arrive soon. However, to move beyond the superficial layer of friendly welcome toward true community means patiently attending to your oh-so-shy room­mate or including the guy down the hall even though he kind of irritates you. In this Sunday’s gospel, Jesus points out the ongoing work arising from community life: we must return to each other again and again to insist that wrongs are righted, misunder­standings cleared up, injustices redressed. For then, Christ concludes, “Where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am in the midst of them” (Matthew 18:20). 
Our own Blessed Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, expressed his hope for the community of Holy Cross and perhaps for what Notre Dame might become as well: “Let us stand in closely united ranks and … let us live in such a man­ner that, as it sees the members of our family, the world may say of us as it was said of the first Christians: ‘See how they love one another!’ This is the most ardent desire of my heart.” 
Those of you who have been here for a while, be welcomers. If you’re new, accept invitations, even from strangers, and offer a few of your own. Even if you’ve only been here a few weeks, remember that before you know it you’ll be on a Frosh-O committee or in hall government or the president of a club on campus, welcoming someone newer than you. 
Let us “grow and build up the body of Christ in love,” as St. Paul wrote to the Ephesians, as each of us commits ourselves to the work of a hospitable community. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you think you can “Play: Work that you enjoy win, you can win. Faith doing for nothing.” is necessary to victory.” 
Evan Esar William Hazlitt American humorist English essayist 
Thursday, September 1, 2011 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Hammock Rights 
One of my friends recently was approached by an NDSP officer while enjoying a beautiful after­noon in his hammock on North Quad.  The officer informed him that hammocks are prohibited from being hung between trees on the quads, and she forced him to take his down.  This violation of human liberty, therefore, begs for a brief celebration of the hammock in all of its glory. 
The hammock is more than a relaxation contraption; it is a ce­lestial experience.  It allows one to temporarily transcend the bound­aries of this world to blissfully frolic amidst the clouds of heaven. 
This modern miracle, displayed through mid-air flotation, traces its roots to Jesus walking on wa­ter. Many biblical scholars assert that Christ Himself was born in a hammock.  Hammocks, therefore, provide their users with spiritual peace and allow them to mirror the life of their Lord and Savior. 
As United States citizens, we re­joice over the connection between the hammock and our American identity.  Nothing depicts Ameri­can freedom like spending a lazy afternoon relaxing in one’s ham­mock.  This display of patriotism celebrates our unalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
For God, Country and Notre Dame: take a moment to hang your hammock, kick back, relax and become lost in the beauty of life. 
Matt Povlock 
junior Stanford Hall Aug. 31 
Psyched 
Being the Psych-O that I am, I have been nothing short of euphor­ic after having read the articles by Ms. O’Donnell (“Pineapples,” Aug. 
30) and Mr. Straka (“The Pineap­ple Bandwagon,” Aug. 31). 
“Psych” is a criminally (pun intended) underrated show, and I was delighted to discover I was not the only one on campus who appreciated its unique brand of quirkiness. 
So delighted, in fact, I would like to suggest that Oct. 12, all of us Psych-O’s meet somewhere and watch the season premiere togeth­er. Unless, of course, you would rather be a “myopic chihuahua” and miss out. 
To the rest of you, I highly rec­ommend giving “Psych” a chance. Granted, there is no guarantee you will fall in love with the series, but I find it very hard to believe that anyone could resist a Shawn Spencer’s unique witticisms: “I’ll crack your case like an egg. Then we’ll make omelets with shallots ... and JUSTICE.” 
Carolyn Hassett 
sophomore Lewis Hall Aug. 31 
UWIRE 

Without Steve Jobs, uncertainty at Apple 
When Legally Blonde’s Elle Woods decides to shed her party-girl demeanor to become a serious Harvard Law School student, her first purchase is a tangerine Apple iBook. 
While the Hana N. Rouse 
make and model of the Harvard Crimson products have 
changed since the movie was released in 2001, the Apple brand has grown more and more popular in higher education. But with Steve Jobs announcing his departure as CEO of Apple last week, many question whether the company will continue to flourish. 
In recent years, Apple products have be­come ubiquitous college campuses. A 2008 study by the research firm Student Monitor found that of the college students that owned laptop computers, 27 percent owned Macs and 24 percent owned Dells. A survey of 125 colleges by Group Logic, Inc. found that Mac usage on campuses increased by 18 percent between 2009 and 2010 and is expected to rise by about 20 percent over the next five years. 
A quick glance around a typical Harvard lecture hall, where the rows are often dot­ted with a mosaic of one-bite apples, shows that the College is not exempt from the trend. While Harvard Technology Services sells both Apple and Dell products, only Apple products are sold on-location. Dell products are ordered directly from the manufacturer. 

Salespeople at Harvard’s computer store in the basement of the Science Center de­clined to comment on the number of Apple and Dell computers sold to students. 
According to Hal B. Gregersen, a profes­sor of leadership at INSEAD—an interna­tional graduate business school—Apple products appeal to college students largely because of “a combination of both function­ality and fashion.” 
“The devices that Apple builds are much more than simply functional devices. They have a strong aesthetic component,” said Paul L. Saffo ’76, a technology forecaster and an associate professor at Stanford. “Apple has always resonated with the younger demographic.” 
For many, the Apple brand and Steve Jobs have become synonymous. Under the guidance of its turtleneck-wearing and blue jeans-clad chieftain, Apple transformed industry after industry with products that few expected to succeed. 
It remains to be seen if Apple can maintain the momentum it acquired under Jobs and continue to attract to a younger demographic. “I think very little is going to change,” said Harvard Business School Senior Associate Dean David B. Yoffie. “The fundamental aspects of products are going to continue to be very popular on college campuses. The products are still going to have that cool factor because of their features and user interface. Steve Jobs’ departure is not going to have that big of an immediate impact.” 
Experts interviewed for this article said that because Apple has long anticipated Jobs’ departure, the company has built a strong network of senior executives who are ready carry on his vision. 
“Executives at Apple … are going to have to step up and fill some of the roles that Jobs was filling,” said tech analyst and col­umnist Jeff Kagan. “Frankly, I don’t know if they will.” 
“But I hope they will,” he added. 
This article originally ran in the Aug. 31 version of the Harvard Crimson, the newspaper serving Harvard University. 

Hispanics now most-represented minority in higher education 
Hispanic enrollment in North American colleges and universities has increased by 24 percent from 2009 to 2010, according to a report from the Pew Hispanic Center re­leased last week. This Ana Mir increase 
has made Cavalier Daily Hispanic students the largest minority group in colleges, surpassing their black counterparts. 
The Hispanic population in the commonwealth has grown 91.7 percent since 2000, according to 
U.S.
 Census Bureau data released in February.  Between 1998 and 2008, 

U.
 Virginia’s Hispanic undergradu­ate population rose 128 percent to 


4.6 percent of the overall population. Hispanic representation among full-time faculty increased by 50 per­cent to make up 1.3 percent of those employees. 
Richard Fry, senior research as­sociate for the Pew Hispanic Center, composed the report by analyzing data from the census. He focused mainly on college students in the 18 to 24 age group and said, although Hispanic enrollment has increased for both community, two-year and four-year colleges, blacks are still the largest minority in two-year colleges. 
Fry attributed the increase to both population growth and rising educa­tional attainment. 
“In some ways, it’s not surprising that the number of young Hispan­ics in college is going up,” Fry said. “After all, the Census Bureau and others tell us Hispanics are a grow­ing population. And they are.” 
The percent increase in the greater population of Hispanics, however, was only seven percent, far less than that in higher education. One reason for the discrepancy between popula­tion growth rates and enrollment rates is that more Hispanic students are graduating high school, Fry said. 

“In 2009, about 70 percent of young Hispanics had finished high school,” he said. “In 2010, 73 percent had fin­ished high school. One year, up three percentage points.” 
In addition, Fry said more young people, regardless of racial back­ground, find going to college impor­tant. 
“More youth, whether they are white, African American or Hispanic, are going to college.” Fry said. “And one reason for that is because college is increasingly valuable. It used to be the case back in the ’70s that if you were a college graduate, you [earned] about 10 percent more than the high-school graduate. Now that earning is about 50 percent. The value of educa­tion has increased in the job market.” 
Fry also noted the state of the economy, which encourages people to attend college to increase their job skills and become more employable when facing a competitive job mar­ket. 
“Hopefully sooner or later the youth job market will begin to improve, and there might be a slight drop off in college enrollment,” he said. “Some students, called ‘marginal students,’ are not committed to college. They’d rather be working.” 
Although Hispanic enrollment in colleges has increased, the Hispanic graduation rate for college students is significantly low. Fry said about 13 percent of Hispanics aged 25 to 29 who have attended college have bach­elor’s degrees. One possible explana­tion is that many Hispanic students go to community colleges, where bachelor’s degrees are much harder to achieve, regardless of ethnic back­ground. 
Differences between various four-year colleges and universities may also affect the graduation rate, Fry added. 
“Some are more academically selective than others and have higher graduation rates,” Fry said. “Whites tend to go to the more academically selective schools. So I’m pointing out a couple things: [Hispanic students] disproportionately go to community colleges and schools with lower de­gree rates.” 
Fry also pointed to socioeconomic status as a factor in graduation rates, noting the importance of being able to afford staying in college for the time required to complete a degree. 
Marcela Chavan-Matviuk, a board member of the Virginia Latino Higher Education Network, said the average Virginia private institution or state university has a 3 to 4 percent Latino enrollment. The Virginia school with the largest Hispanic enrollment is George Mason University with 5.2 percent in 2008. 
“It is extremely important we in­crease the levels of Hispanic enroll­ment at our universities,” Chavan-Matviuk said. “Not only including them in systems, but keeping them in the system until they graduate. So it’s a double-edged sword that colleges and universities have to handle now.” 
Alexa Proffitt, chair of the Latino Student Alliance at U. Virginia, said she has noticed a difference in the number of Hispanic students in the class of 2012 compared to the class of 2015. 
“I think that specifically at U.Va.,” she said, “the fourth-year numbers for Hispanics is very low, under 200. For the first years, it’s 400.” 
This article originally ran in the Aug. 31 version of the Cavalier Daily, the newspaper serving the University of Virginia. 
Thursday, September 1, 2011 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

During May’s Antostal, student-band In Euphoric Company hit Legends night­club to play in their first Battle of the Bands. The band will be back Thursday to celebrate the release of its first offi­cial, full-length album, “People to Re­member, People to Forget.” 
In Euphoric Company will perform with fellow student-band Ratboy and the show promises to be one you won’t want to miss. Not only that, but if you show up with friends, speak to the band after the show to grab a free CD. 
In Euphoric Company began under Notre Dame junior Tyler Eto and his high school classmate Gerek Edrosolan. While Edrosolan headed to Creighton in Omaha, Nebraska for college, the two continued to compose songs together via email. Eto then expanded the band at Notre Dame in 2010, bringing in now-juniors Lacey Cochran, Kino Lee and Duncan Smith. 
Smith, the drummer, said the band’s name came from the members’ desire for a group of close friends and relation­ships. 
“We are looking for a group of people where you don’t feel distant,” Smith said. “These are the friends that we hope to be with. We want to be in euphoric com­pany.” 
After performing in Midwest-based cities throughout their sophomore year, Eto, Edrosolan and Smith spent the sum­mer in Sacramento, Calif. working on their first official album. They worked to­gether, bouncing ideas for songs off each other, but mostly building off songs they had performed during the year together. At the end of the summer, Lee and Co­chran came out to record the songs. 
The band chose to record their album independently rather than using a pro­fessional company. Smith said the ex­perience often felt like drowning, as the band members had to throw themselves into the job with little previous experi­ence. Bassist Lee agreed, calling it a learning experience. 
“I think we learned a lot more by not having a professional engineer,” Lee said, adding that the members devel­oped a more intimate understanding of the group through the whole process. 

The end result, “People to Remem­ber, People to Forget,” came out beau­tifully. Recorded without professionals, the album has a raw and emotional feel. Drawing inspiration from bands like Lo­cal Natives and Bon Iver, the album falls into the ambient pop genre, with a touch of folk. The emphasis is on the instru­mentalism, creating a sublime, relaxing feeling. 
Gorgeous voices complement the soft, slow instrumental sections. Various band members provide vocals at differ­ent points in songs that create a nice contrast and add a hint of diversity to each song. Whether relaxing after a long day of work or kicking off a weekend of fun, this album provides a great musical backdrop. 
Smith’s favorite song off the albums is the final track, “Life and Times.” He said he particularly enjoys the powerful spo­ken word part at the end, which follows a strong instrumental beginning.  Lee, on the other hand, said he likes “Semes­ters” because he considers it the most fun to perform, with all the instruments needed.  Other tracks to check out are “Cult Fiction” and “Fields.” 
The concert at Legends represents the album release party for the band. Offi­cially, “People to Remember, People to Forget” came out two weekends ago, but this is the first time the band has per­formed together since the release.  They already have quite a few gigs set up for the rest of the semester in Indianapolis and Muncie, Ind., as well as Chicago, but they are looking forward to this release concert. 
So be sure to check out this new band from Notre Dame. The music is awe­some, and Legends always puts on a great show. Plus, who doesn’t love a free CD just for hanging out with friends and listening to great music? 
For more information, check out the band’s Facebook page, as well as www. ineuphoriccompany.bandcamp.com, where the album is available for stream­ing and downloading. 
Contact Mary Claire o’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 
Thursday, September 1, 2011 

In Euphoric Company Legends of Notre Dame 10 p.m. Free with Student ID Gabriel Iglesias South Quad 10 p.m. Free 

Get a hot and fluffy start on your weekend with the biggest comedy show of the year. This Mexican comedi­an has appeared on Comedy Central and “Good Morning America.” Join your fellow students on South Quad for a hilarious night with Gabriel Iglesias. 

SUB Movie – “Thor” DeBartolo 101 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. $3 with Student ID 
With plenty of action, romance and fantasy to go around, “Thor” is the per­fect movie for comic book lovers or friends seeking some Norse mythology eye candy. And as always, a classic date night out for those looking for affordable entertainment. 
Michiana Celtic Festival Howard Park 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. $5 
Cultural pride abounds in downtown South Bend. Come for Irish dancing, sheep dogs, Clydesdale Horses, Scottish Cattle, Highland games, tug of war, bagpipe and Celtic bands, children’s activi­ties, food, drink, enter­tainment and more! 

By STEPHANIE WALZ seen him as a finalist on NBC’s Scene Writer “Last Comic Standing” in 2006 
or on Nickelodeon’s “All That.” 

If you’re looking to add a Since then, Iglesias made little “fluff” to your weekend, frequent appearances on Com­you’re in luck.  The hilarious edy Central with his famous Gabriel Iglesias, or as he likes to stand-up routines and was call himself, “Fluffy,” will be on featured on “Jimmy Kimmel campus this Friday to entertain Live,” “The Tonight Show with us with his nationally famous Jay Leno,” and “Good Morning stand-up routine. America,” to name a few.  
Iglesias brings his Mexican Iglesias provides comedy heritage alive on stage and in-that entertains people of all tegrates it into his comedic rou-ages, which has contributed to tines. He accompanies his paro-his booming popularity over the dies of everyday situations with last few years. Ranging from precise sound effects, spot-on stories about being pulled over impersonations and engaging by the cops to anecdotes about storytelling. By making light of his girlfriend and family, his daily issues people can relate material brings something for to, he has captured the hearts everyone because we’ve all of millions and certainly never been there at some point. fails to keep the audiences in Bringing humor to everyday stitches. life, Iglesias and his electrifying 
Originally from southern comedy will be on our very own California, Iglesias is now tak-South Quad. ing the United States by storm. So, if the Dillon Hall Pep Ral-He currently has two sold out ly doesn’t give you the laughs tours nationwide, “I’m Not Fat you’re looking for, grab some … I’m Fluffy” and “Hot and friends and a blanket and come Fluffy,” coining the term “fluffy” see Iglesias for a real comedy fix to describe his weight.  Friday night. 
Iglesias got his start on the Galavision TV show “Que Lo-Contact Stephanie walz at swalz@ 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

cos!” but you may also have nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Thursday, September 1, 2011 
MLB 

Prosecutors drop remaining charges against Bonds 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Fed­eral prosecutors on Wednes­day dropped all the remain­ing charges against Barry Bonds, days after a judge upheld the slugger’s convic­tion on an obstruction of jus­tice count. 
The U.S. attorney’s office in San Francisco filed court papers informing U.S. Dis­trict Judge Susan Illston it was dismissing the three charges of making false statements still pending against Bonds, Major League Baseball’s all-time home runs leader. A jury dead­locked on the three counts at Bonds’ trial in April. 
The deadline for prosecu­tors to start the process for a retrial on those charges was about 30 days away. Now, Bonds won’t face a new trial on accusations that he lied to a grand jury back in 2003 when he testified that he never knowingly received steroids or human growth hormone from trainer Greg Anderson, and that no one other than his doctors ever injected him with anything. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella declined com­ment. 
Bonds’ lawyer, Allen Ruby, said that his client’s legal team was focused on the slugger’s sentencing hearing in December. Ruby declined to discuss whether Bonds intended to appeal the ob­struction conviction. 
Bonds was among the big­gest stars convicted as a re­sult of an investigation into the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BALCO) steroids ring, a probe headed by fed­eral agent Jeff Novitzky that also ensnared Olympic gold 
medal-winning track  star  
Marion Jones.  
Bonds  was  initially  

charged in November 2007 with lying to the grand jury during a December 2003 ap­pearance when he testified that his personal trainer misled him into believing the designer steroids and performance enhancing drugs he was taking were legal supplements. 
A majority of jurors this year voted to acquit him on charges he lied when he de­nied knowingly taking ste­roids and human growth hormone. The jurors voted 11-1 to convict him for deny­ing that anyone other than his doctor ever injected him. 
Bonds faces a maximum of 10 years in prison, though federal guidelines recom­mend a sentence of 15 to 21 months. 
Illston, who upheld the obstruction count last Fri­day, also is free to impose a lesser sentence, which she did after two previous tri­als involving a champion cyclist and track coach each convicted of lying in cases that grew out of the BALCO probe. Cyclist Tammy Thom­as and track coach Trevor Graham each received sen­tences of house arrest. 
Bonds, Thomas and Gra­ham were the only three BALCO figures who pleaded not guilty and went to trial on charges of lying about performance enhancing drugs. 
Prosecutors on Wednesday dismissed the counts “with­out prejudice,” meaning they could reinstate the charges before the statute of limi­tations expires. However, that’s a routine legal maneu­ver when dismissing crimi­nal charges and dropped cases are rarely reinstated. 
Attorney William Keane, who represented Thomas, said it’s highly unlikely prosecutors will reinstate the charges, and that he expects Bonds won’t go to prison even though prosecu­tors are expected to argue for that. 
“Given that the core part of the case hung and given the other sentences in the BALCO cases,” Keane said, “Bonds has a reasonably good chance of avoiding prison time.” 

Peter Keane, a Golden Gate University law profes­sor, said he was “a little sur­prised” that prosecutors de­cided to drop the charge on which jurors voted 11-1 to convict Bonds. 
“But at the end of the day, he’s a convicted felon and was shown to have obstruct­ed a federal grand jury,” Ke­ane said. “The prosecutors won.” 
MLB 

Rangers acquire Treanor and Gonzalez in separate deals 
Associated Press Gonzalez was 2-2 with a said. “They’re catching him (2010-11). season with the Royals, bat­
4.27 ERA in 49 relief appear-at a great time. He’s familiar “I’m excited. I’m going to go ting .226 in 65 games, includ-
ARLINGTON, Texas — AL ances this season for Balti-with the American League, so out there and I’m going to try ing a team-high 62 starts at West-leading Texas made a more, which traded the Texas there should be little transi-to win the championship now, catcher. Treanor had been on pair of trades Wednesday to native to the Rangers for a tion. He’s obviously familiar and especially right now that the concussion disabled list strengthen its roster for the player to be named. with the state of Texas. So I’m feeling good,” Gonzalez since July 31, but had since stretch run, acquiring reliev-“We weren’t necessarily it’s a really good situation for said. “The bad part is obvious-played seven games at Dou­er Mike Gonzalez and bring-looking to land just any left-them.” ly I wanted to do more here in ble-A Northwest Arkansas on ing back catcher Matt Tre-hander,” Daniels said. “It had The Rangers also recalled Baltimore. ... I’m going to go an injury rehab assignment. anor. to be the right guy, with the right-hander Wilmer Font to Texas and see what these “He brings experience, he’s 
Treanor was with the Rang-ability to get both lefties and and placed him on the 60-day guys are about over there. If been with these guys before, ers last season when they won righties out. We felt Mike was disabled list, and designated they’re anything like Tommy he brings energy,” Washing-their first AL pennant and above the line. ... He seems to right-hander Tim Wood for (Hunter), I’m going to be all ton said. “We’re happy to have he set a career high with 82 have locked in right now.” assignment. right.” him back.” games played. Texas traded Gonzalez has made 13 con-Font hasn’t pitched this sea-Just before the non-waiver After the Rangers added him to Kansas City at the end secutive scoreless appearanc-son after undergoing Tommy trade deadline last month, catcher Yorvit Torrealba and of spring training for cash, es since July 22, allowing only John surgery last October. the Rangers got right-hander Mike Napoli last winter, Tre­then got him back from the five hits over 12 1-3 innings in Wood was acquired from Koji Uehara from Baltimore anor became the third catcher Royals for cash. that span. Pittsburgh on Aug. 18, but had for Hunter and infielder Chris in spring training. Napoli also 
“We know Matt,” general “Gonzo is going to be a really a 9.64 ERA in four relief ap-Davis. has been a designated hitter manager Jon Daniels said. nice piece for Ron Washington pearances at Triple-A Round The deals for Gonzalez and played first base this sea­“We’ll get a third catcher for and the Rangers. He’s pitch-Rock since then. and Treanor were completed son for Texas. September. He’s just the right ing as good as any American Gonzalez has a 2.89 ERA hours before the deadline for “It allows Wash some flex-fit for us. He’s a good fit in League reliever, left-hander, in 380 career appearances players to be eligible for the ibility when he wants to DH the clubhouse who knows our reliever period,” Baltimore for Pittsburgh (2003-06), At-postseason roster. one of the catchers,” Daniels pitchers.” manager Buck Showalter lanta (2007-09) and Baltimore Treanor spent the entire said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Time share for sale by orig. owner at Varsity Club (5 minutes from NDU). 
Available for football dates and/or grad. week. 
Contact Mark at: 
847-715-9699. 

FOR RENT 
One bedroom unit w/ fullsize fridge, oven, etc. (can sleep 4) available for rent graduation week 05/13 - 05/20/2012. Unit is located 5 minutes from NDU at the Varsity Club. Contact Mark at 847-715­9699. 
3BR 2BA or entire house for rent for ND football. 2 miles from campus. $350 per bedroom or $1000 for entire house. Fri 5:00 pm through Sun 2:00 pm. Responsible parties call 574-286-0321 YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO LIVE HERE! Beautifully Renovated 4-5bed/2bath Home Walk to Campus! Off of Eddy St. Priced to Rent Quickly! Call Mike 615-419­2892 
TICKETS 
BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY GAMES - GAs only. Call 574-277­1659 
WANTED 

CHILDCARE FOR ALL ND FOOTBALL GAMES NOT GOING TO THE ND FOOTBALL GAMES?? ND &amp; SMC GRADUATES LOOKING FOR RESPONSIBLE BABYSITTER FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES! TIMES WOULD BE FRIDAY’S 6PM &amp; SATURDAY’S ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME TIME. APPROXIMATELY 5 CHILDREN DEPENDING ON GAME, AGES FROM 3 TO 11. LOCATED IN DUBLIN VILLAGE JUST NORTH OF SMC. IF INTERESTED CALL BRIDGET AT 312-446-2322! EMAIL BKSEMMER@GMAIL.COM 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Looking to start bible study group. 10 lesson premillennial dispensational viewpoint covering entire bible in 1 hour sessions. Call Tom 574-876-8928 Tessie, ‘Nuff Said McGreevy shouted We’re not here to mess around Boston, you know we love you madly Hear the crowd roar to your sound Don’t blame us if we ever doubt you You know we couldn’t live without you Tessie, you are the only, only, only 
Made you look! 
And hopefully made you smile too. 
Now we can only hope the Opening Charge will be more exciting than this. 
And if not, Discharge is always reliable. 

Thursday, September 1, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MLB 

Tigers complete eighth inning rally to top Royals 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — The Kansas City Royals probably should be riding a three-game winning streak into Thursday’s series finale against Detroit. 
Instead, thanks to two blown eighth-inning leads, Kansas City needs a victory just to split the four-game set with the first-place Tigers. 
“We just need to find a way to close out these games,” said rookie third baseman Mike Moustakas, who went 1 for 4 in Kansas City’s 5-4 loss on Wednesday. 
This time, Kansas City led 4-2 going into the eighth, but Blake Wood (5-2) couldn’t get the clean inning the Royals needed to hand things over to closer Joakim Soria. 
Austin Jackson sparked the winning rally with a leadoff triple for his fourth hit of the game. Ramon Santiago followed with a sacrifice fly. 
With one out and Delmon Young on first, Victor Martinez hit a tying double into left-center. Alex Gordon made a diving attempt on the ball but couldn’t haul it in. 
“Alex made the dive, and I couldn’t tell if he got it or not until I saw Melky (Cabrera) running after the ball,” Royals manager Ned Yost said. “He covered a lot of ground to even get close to that.” 
Alex Avila was intentionally walked before Wilson Betemit hit a liner into the right-field corner to drive in pinch-runner Brennan Boesch. Jeff Francoeur cut down Avila at the plate to end the inning. 
“It was a combination of bad pitches by me and good swings by them,” Wood said. “I threw Wilson a slider down and in, and he just dropped the bat head on it.” 
The Tigers acquired the journeyman Betemit from the Royals on July 20. 
“I know Blake throws hard, so I was looking for something I could hit,” Betemit said. “He threw me a slider, and I put a great swing on it.” 
The Royals put two runners on in the ninth, but Jose Valverde retired Alcides Escobar for his 40th save in 40 chances. 
“Every time you lose a one-run game, you hate it,” Yost said. “We had a two-run lead and we couldn’t hold it in the eighth.” 
Eric Hosmer had a pair of solo homers for Kansas City, which has dropped four of six. Hosmer connected in the second and the fourth, hitting a drive to right on a 1-2 pitch each time. 


“You tell yourself you don’t want to go down swinging and I got two pitches that were up,” he said. “But good teams find ways to win games in the later innings, and that’s what they did.” 
Kansas City added two more runs in the sixth to take a 4-2 lead. Gordon hit a 
leadoff single and scored on Cabrera’s double. Cabrera then scored when Young couldn’t Billy Butler’s drive to left and misplayed it again while trying to pick it up. 
Jackson scored each of Detroit’s first two runs, on Young’s sacrifice fly in the first and Nate Adcock’s wild pitch in the third. 
Royals rookie Johnny Giavotella made four highlight-reel plays at second base, and Gordon robbed Avila with a leaping catch as he crashed into the fence in left. 
“When I talked to Ned a couple days ago, he said he was very happy that his players aren’t just hitters — they play defense,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Thursday, September 1, 2011 
MLB 

Indians top A’s in 16 keep pace in AL Central race 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — The Cleve­land Indians are performing drama like no other team — and is one believing it’s destined for something much more. 
“Maybe it is our year,” reliev­er Frank Herrmann said. 
Jack Hannahan’s single with one out in the 16th inning scored sliding pinch-runner Cord Phelps from second base and gave Cleveland a 4-3 win over the Oakland Athletics on Wednesday night, moving the bend-but-don’t break Indians back into second place in the AL Central. 
A season of comebacks, inju­ries and late-inning heroics has a new chapter. 
“These guys aren’t giving up,” Indians manager Manny Acta said. “That’s good.” 
Jim Thome singled with one out in the 16th off Josh Outman (3-4), the A’s eighth pitcher, and was replaced by Phelps. Carlos Santana lined a single to center before Hannahan, who hit two solo homers, singled to right. Phelps never slowed as he was waved around by third-base coach Steve Smith and was able to slip headfirst under the tag of catcher Kurt Suzuki, who had to jump to catch right fielder David DeJesus’ strong throw. 
“It was all in slow motion,” Smith said. “I sent him and then I said, ‘Uh, oh.’” 
The play was close, but plate umpire Bruce Dreckman ruled Phelps was safe and the A’s didn’t argue. 
“The replays are showing he was out,” Oakland manager Bob Melvin said. “It was im­possible to see from my angle. There’s nothing we can do about it now.” 
Suzuki was certain he got Phelps, but didn’t know where the rookie was in relation to the plate. 
“It was a close play, one of those things where you can’t tell if he was safe,” the catch­er said. “I tagged him. I know that. It’s too bad to lose after we battled so hard.” 
Hannahan was mobbed by the Indians, who won for the 17th time in their last at-bat at home, jumped Chicago in the division and stayed 5½ games behind first-place Detroit. It was Cleveland’s 11th walk-off win at home, the Indians’ 13th one-run game in August and 46th this season. 
“I was just trying to stay up the middle,” Hannahan ex­plained of his game-winning single. “To be honest with you I didn’t think about swing­ing away (for another homer). Those hits had happened so long ago in that game that I for­got what happened.” 
It was also the longest game in Cleveland since May 7, 1995 
— when the Indians went to the World Series for the first time since 1954. 
“We keep pulling out games like this,” said Herrmann (4-0), who worked four perfect in­nings. “Things are falling into place for us or we’re making them fall into place.” 
The marathon featured a Progressive Field record 34 strikeouts — 19 by Oakland pitchers, who also combined for eight perfect innings from the seventh to 15th. 
The A’s threatened in the 10th, 11th and 12th, but couldn’t push the go-ahead run across. They stranded six runners in the three innings, leaving the bases loaded in the 12th against Chad Durbin, who got out of the one-out jam by striking out Ryan Sweeney and retiring DeJesus on a pop to short. 
Suzuki homered for Oak­land, which dropped its fifth straight. 
The Indians didn’t gain any ground on the Tigers, but for a change they did get a positive medical report. 
Designated hitter Travis Haf­ner received some “encourag­ing news” about his strained foot tendon from doctors, and Acta expects the slugger to re­turn this season. Hafner has been out since Aug. 21, when he was injured trying to stretch a single during a game in Detroit. 

Acta does not have a time­table for Hafner’s return, but said when the cleanup hitter does come back, he will share DH duties with Thome. Also, Indians outfielder Grady Size-more began a rehab stint at Double-A Akron, and as long as he doesn’t have any setbacks, he could rejoin the club soon. 
Hannahan’s second homer off starter Rich Harden, a tow­ering shot off the foul pole in right, tied it 3-3 in the sixth. 


MLB 

Montero’s home run lifts Arizona to win over Colorado 
ing seven earned runs in 60 in-can stay in the game for a long nings. time.” 
“I think there’s probably may-Arizona had two runners be just a little bit of internal thrown out at home and Colo­competition,” Collmenter said. rado one. “No one wants to be the guy Fowler led off the game that messes it up. We want to with a double, took third on a keep it going.” groundout, but was thrown out 
Sean Burroughs had a pinch-by strong-armed left fielder Ge-hit RBI single for the Diamond-rardo Parra trying to score on backs, who maintained a six-Carlos Gonzalez’s fly ball. game lead over second-place Willie Bloomquist singled and San Francisco in the NL West. Justin Upton was hit by a pitch The Giants beat the Chicago ahead of Montero’s one-out Cubs 4-0 earlier in the day. homer — his 14th of the season Arizona opens a three-game se-— on a 1-0 pitch from Rogers. ries in San Francisco on Friday Seth Smith doubled with two night. outs, then scored on Eliezer 
Dexter Fowler, without a Alfonzo’s single in the Rock-home run all season before this ies’ second. Montero threw out series, hit a solo shot for the sec-Alfonzo trying to take second ond straight night for Colorado. on the play, ending the inning. 
The rookie Collmenter, 3-1 in Fowler’s two-out homer, on a his last five starts, allowed five 1-2 pitch from Collmenter, cut hits, struck out three, walked Arizona’s lead to 3-2 in the none and hit a batter. Four third. Arizona relievers blanked Colo-Aaron Hill, who saved a run rado for the last three innings, with a diving stop in the fourth, capped by J.J. Putz in the ninth doubled with two outs for Ari-for his 35th save in 39 tries. zona in the sixth, then Parra 
“They are swinging the bats was walked intentionally. Bur-well and their pitchers are roughs, pinch-hitting for Col-making their pitches,” Fowler lmenter, singled up the middle said. “Put all that together you off Rogers’ glove to bring in Hill got a good team. We had some and make it 4-2. 

Associated Press 13 hits, we scored four runs. things we talked about we can opportunities and didn’t capi-Ryan Roberts tried to score There were people out there to do a better job at,” Tracy said, talize on them and came out on from first on Montero’s double 
PHOENIX — Colorado man-be knocked in, we just couldn’t “because it has been our down-the bottom.” to left in the seventh, but the ager Jim Tracy was lament-do it. They took one swing in the fall all season long. All season The Rockies, swept for the left fielder Smith threw the cut­ing more of the same after the first inning as our starter was long it has been our downfall.” fifth time this season, have lost off to second baseman Mark El-Rockies were beaten 4-2 by trying to settle in and it is the Josh Collmenter (9-8) limited five of six. Esmil Rogers (6-4) lis. Alfonzo took the relay throw the Arizona Diamondbacks on difference in the game.” the Rockies to two runs in six gave up four runs and seven and made the tag at the plate Wednesday night. Miguel Montero’s second innings as the Diamondbacks hits in six innings to drop to 0-3 for the out. Parra was easily 
The chances were there. The three-run homer in as many set a franchise record with 12 in his last four starts. thrown out trying to score after clutch hits weren’t. The result nights — in the first inning — consecutive home wins. The “I will try to find out what an errant throw to third in the was a three-game sweep at the provided all the offense the nine-game overall streak is Ari-happens in the first inning,” eighth. hands of the surprising NL West Diamondbacks needed in their zona’s longest since a franchise-Rogers said. “The last couple Upton was hit by a pitch for leaders and the Rockies’ fifth ninth straight victory. best 12 straight from June 18-of starts I had a little control. the 16th time, tied with Wash-loss in six games. Colorado was 1 for 7 with 30, 2003. That is what happened tonight. ington’s Danny Espinosa for 
“Once again tonight we got runners in scoring position. The Diamondbacks’ starting I need to find out what I can do most in the NL. Parra’s nine eight hits, we scored two runs,” “We have a month of baseball pitchers have a 1.05 ERA dur-better. After the first inning ev-outfield assists this season are Tracy said. “Last night we got left and hopefully some of the ing the winning streak, allow-erything was good and I think I a career-high. 
Thursday, September 1, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
MLB 

Giants make significant personnel moves after losses 
Associated Press than $15 million in the com-ally it was coming,” Mark 
bined contracts of Rowand DeRosa said of the shake-

SAN FRANCISCO — With and Tejada. up. “We didn’t know who, or his club falling further out “I don’t expect anything. when it was coming. At some of playoff contention by the We’ll see what happens. point something had to be day, Giants general man-We’ve got the whole day to done.” ager Brian Sabean started work on it,” Sabean said. A 15-year big league veter-making sweeping changes The GM didn’t find any an, Tejada won the 2002 AL Wednesday. takers before the 9 p.m. lo-MVP across San Francisco 
Outfielder Aaron Rowand cal time deadline for trading Bay with the Oakland Ath­and infielder Miguel Tejada either player for them to be letics. were designated for assign-playoff-eligible. “I just thank them for the ment by the defending World Rowand, the team’s sec-opportunity,” Tejada said Series champions, who trail ond-highest paid player be-in a brief phone interview. first-place Arizona by a sea-hind pitcher Barry Zito, is Asked if he saw the move son-high six games in the making $12 million this sea-coming, he said: “I don’t pay NL West race. The Giants son and was due the same attention, I just try to play beat the Chicago Cubs 4-0 for 2012 — but money wasn’t baseball.” to avoid a sweep and end a an issue in the decision with “Everybody knows what I three-game losing streak, Rowand. can do in this game, what I while the D-backs beat Colo-“Ownership was apprised can do on a baseball field,” rado 4-2 at home on Wednes-throughout the process. That Tejada said later. “I would day night. wasn’t a problem,” Sabean have liked (to help the Giants 
Arizona visits for a crucial said. “He was given an op-win). It just did not happen.” three-game weekend series portunity. ... Did it turn out Rowand had cleaned out starting Friday night. the way we wanted to in the his locker by late Wednes­
“We’re at a spot in the end? Obviously not. But it’s day morning, shaking hands season where we have to do time for both parties to move with several teammates be-some damage control with on.” fore he left the ballpark. the roster. A couple things The 34-year-old Rowand “I wish things would have played into it. In both cases, was batting .233 with four turned out differently,” Row-there was diminished play-home runs and 21 RBIs in and said in a text message. ing time, diminished roles,” 108 games. He was hitless “I thank the Giants for the Phillies. manager Bruce Bochy said. Sabean said. “If this stays in seven at-bats during the opportunity. And, more than The news was tough for “We’ve dug ourselves a pret­ugly, we’ve got to turn the current homestand and was anything else, I’m going to Burrell to take, but he un-ty good hole here but it’s a page, look at some other mired in a 1-for-24 (.042) miss my teammates and derstood, too. gritty group, and we’ll keep people and get ready for next slump dating to Aug. 13. He wish each and every one of “Some moves had to be fighting until the end.” year, and try to win and de-hasn’t drawn a walk since them the best.” made for us to get back on The Giants still hope to get velop at the same time.” July 5. Also Wednesday, San Fran-track, hopefully,” he said. struggling $126 million lefty 


Sabean worked to try to The 37-year-old Tejada re-cisco recalled outfielder Pat “This team needed some Zito back from foot and ankle move both players to other ceived a $6.5 million, one-Burrell from a rehab assign-changes.” injuries by mid-September clubs within the day so they year deal in December to ment and reinstated him Wednesday’s win was only for the stretch run. He was could “continue their ca-join the Giants. He was bat-from the 15-day disabled list the sixth victory in 16 games left off the postseason roster reers.” The Giants have 10 ting .239 with four homers after he missed 43 games for San Francisco, which for all three rounds last fall. days to trade or release each and 26 RBIs in 91 games. He with a mid-right foot strain. finished up August at 11-Sabean wouldn’t say player, but would have had was 4 for 20 since being ac-The club also purchased the 18 with 78 runs — the low-whether the Giants might to trade them to a contender tivated from the 15-day dis-contract of infielder Brett est monthly runs total since be willing to also part ways before Thursday for them to abled list Aug. 16 after miss-Pill from Triple-A Fresno. the Giants scored 77 in April with the pitcher, in the fifth be eligible for another team’s ing 25 games with a lower Burrell and Rowand are 2009. season of his seven-year postseason roster. Still, San abdominal strain. longtime friends. They “We still believe we can deal, and take on his huge Francisco is absorbing more “I think we knew eventu-played together with the climb back in this thing,” contract at some point. 

matches. The top four teams in conference regular sea-
Looking 
son play will compete for the 
continued from page 20 MIAA’s automatic Division III 
tournament berth at the start 
Before MIAA play opens of November. 
Sept. 14, the Belles will face The season begins Friday 
four non-conference foes. against Defiance College at 5 
Once Saint Mary’s starts p.m. 
conference play, they will face 
each of its eight opponents Contact Matt Unger at 
twice in home-and-home munger@nd.edu 




page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NBA 

Clock running out on NBA lockout 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — There’s still time for a deal to keep the entire NBA season intact, though it’s running out. 
And with that in mind, own­ers and players realize it’s time to stop talking about each other, and start talking to each other. 
They returned to the bargain­ing table Wednesday, meeting for about six hours in just their second bargaining session since the league’s lockout began on July 1. 
“Everyone loses if we don’t reach an agreement, that’s something that I think has al­ways been understood,” union president Derek Fisher of the Lakers said. “But as we ap­proach Sept. 1 and obviously the training camp schedule to start on Oct. 1, the urgency is just con­tinuing to build and increase on both sides, and we’re going to remain focused on finding a way to get this done.” 
Neither side offered any spe­cifics or would say if progress was made, but said they plan many more meetings in hopes of having basketball begin without interruption. 
“I don’t see any benefit to characterizing our positions,” Deputy Commissioner Adam Sil­ver said, a thought repeated fre­quently by both sides. 
“I will say we are not apart in terms of an agreed urgency on getting a deal done and we’re not apart on the need to avoid missing games and we’re not apart on the agreed impact that will have, not just on our teams and our players, but the commu­nities in which they operate in as well.” 
Commissioner David Stern and San Antonio owner Peter Holt, head of the labor relations committee, also represented the owners at a Manhattan hotel. Executive director Billy Hunter and attorney Ron Klempner at­tended from the union. 
The sides hadn’t met since Aug. 1, despite saying they hoped to follow that with mul­tiple sessions before the end of the month. They are far apart on major issues, but Stern said there is “clearly enough time” to make a deal that would allow the regular season to open as scheduled on Nov. 1. 
He added he has no timetable for when cancelations might be necessary. The NBA quickly shot down a report this week they would happen at an owners meeting on Sept. 15. 
“We don’t have any deadlines in mind,” Stern said. “We just have meetings in mind and dis­cussions in mind.” 
Neither side would say when or where the next meetings would take place, indicating a desire for a level of privacy that has been largely absent in the process. Stern was critical of the players while meeting with the media after the Aug. 1 session, and Fisher said “things seem to get spun out of control, either by us or by them” whenever they talk specifics in the press. 
“So we’re just going to focus on the deal. That’s all we can do,” Fisher said. “We feel it’s the best way to respect the process, to just try to do a better job of staying clear of that type of situ­ation. 
“We just feel that a little bit less — or a lot less — of talking outside of the room and more talking inside of the room is bet­ter for everyone,” he added. 
Fisher said there were no new proposals for a new deal. The players made the last one on June 30, an offer the league said would have increased average player salaries to nearly $7 mil­lion in the sixth year. 
Owners, seeking significant salary reductions from the play­ers after losing hundreds of mil­lions of dollars in each year of the previous CBA, imposed the lockout hours later, and nothing much has happened since. 
Stern set Labor Day week­end as an unofficial deadline for when progress needed to be made during an ESPN.com pod­cast earlier this month. 
So, is he satisfied? 
“We had a meeting before Labor Day and agreed that we would continue to meet,” Stern said. 
Following the schedule from the 1998 lockout, the only time the NBA lost games to a work stoppage, the NBA has a couple of weeks before anything is in jeopardy. The start of camps, then scheduled for Oct. 5, were postponed on Sept. 24, and the first preseason games weren’t called off until Oct. 6. 
The first exhibition games this year are set for Oct. 9, and may­be they can still happen. 
“It’s very obvious that coming out of the lockout being July 1 and into this part of August, it’s very clear both sides are feeling a sense of urgency,” Fisher said. “We’re very focused on getting a deal done and that’s how we’ll proceed from this point going forward.” 
The Observer u SPortS 
TENNIS 

Williams withdraws from Open 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — The U.S. 
Open’s most stunning loss 
Wednesday was bigger than 
just the Grand Slam tourna­
ment, with Venus Williams 
withdrawing and revealing 
she’s suffering from an auto­
immune disease. 

The seven-time major cham­
pion said in a statement that 
she was recently diagnosed 
with Sjogren’s Syndrome, “an 
ongoing medical condition that 
affects my energy level and 
causes fatigue and joint pain.” 
The 31-year-old Williams 
pulled out of two hard-court 
tuneup tournaments this sum­
mer because she was not feel­
ing well. But she came back at 
Flushing Meadows, and in her 
first match in two months, Wil­
liams beat Vesna Dolonts 6-4, 
6-3 on Monday. 

She was supposed to play 
22nd-seeded Sabine Lisicki in 
the second round. Instead, the 
women’s field is even more un­
certain. 

“I think she’s a tough girl 
and I think she’ll come back,” 
said Lisicki, who saw Williams 
on Wednesday wearing match 
clothing and was surprised to 
learn she’d withdrawn. 

Before the news broke that 
the older Williams sister was 
out, Vera Zvonareva was al­
ready happy just to advance. 
In a wide-open women’s draw, 
that counts for a lot — and that 
Thursday, September 1, 2011 

withdrew because of illness before his first-round match. 
The Swede was scheduled to face qualifier Louk Sorensen in the first round. “Lucky los­er” Rogerio Dutra da Silva of Brazil took his spot and made it to the second round, win­ning when Sorensen retired because of cramps. 
Soderling’s agent said in a statement that he started feeling “really bad” Tuesday night with stomach pain and a headache, and a doctor recom­mended he not play. 
One American teen pulled a big upset on the women’s side, while another couldn’t hold onto a lead. 
Christina McHale reached the third round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time, beating eighth-seeded Marion Bartoli in straight sets. 

became even more true with Williams’ exit. 
The second-seeded Russian needed three ragged sets to reach the third round, beating 69th-ranked Kateryna Bonda­renko 7-5, 3-6, 6-3. With the winners of the last four major tournaments missing from the second round, players with a lot of Grand Slam experience are in short supply. Zvonareva has that, losing in the final at Wimbledon and here at Flush­ing Meadows in 2010. 
“I wouldn’t say I’m pleased with the quality of tennis I showed, but I’m pleased the way I handled the match,” said Zvonareva, who overcame 46 unforced errors. 
A two-time Grand Slam run­ner-up on the men’s side didn’t even get started at the Open. Sixth-seeded Robin Soderling 


Thursday, September 1, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Irish women’s runners take off at the start of the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 1 last year. The squad returns to the Crusader Invitational where they took first in 2010. 
Rookies 
continued from page 20 
their first collegiate competi­tion this weekend. A handful of upperclassmen, including sophomores Patrick Lesie­wicz, Kevin Jacobs and Pat­rick Smith and junior Jeffrey MacMillan, will also compete. 
A year ago, the Irish domi­nated the field in Valparaiso, finishing first with just 16 points. Notre Dame — ranked fourth in the Great Lakes re­gion this season — placed eight runners in the top-nine last year. Piane, however, said this year will be much tough­er. 
“Marquette was not there last year. Now that they are, it is a significantly better meet,” Piane said. “They were right behind us in Big Easts last year. If they run their top ranked people, it could be a great meet.” 
The women’s team will also return to the Crusader Invita­tional to defend their crown after nipping Western Michi­gan by one point, 26-27 at last year’s meet. 
The men’s and women’s teams combined to claim each of the top 11 spots, with then-junior Gena Bleyer giv­ing Notre Dame the victory by finishing 13 seconds before Western Michigan’s Elizaveta Boudreau. 
“This meet we use to see where people are at. It will be a mix between new people and freshmen,” Irish women’s coach Tim Connelly said. “We want to win every time we go out there but we have a long, long year ahead of us.” 
Senior Suzanna Sullivan, who led the Irish last year by running a 18:17.50 time in Valparaiso, returns to lead the squad along with junior Jessica Rydberg, a top runner two years ago who is back af­ter an injury ended her 2010 campaign. 
“We’re not going to over-race anyone,” Connelly said. “[The runners] benefit from lining up and competing. You’ll see some people who aren’t so experienced.” 
Debuting for the Irish — ranked sixth in the Great Lakes region — will be fresh­men Emily Frydrych, Gabby Gonzales, Katherine Stultz and Katie Moran. 
This year’s Crusader Invita­tional will include Valparaiso, Marquette and Wisconsin-Green Bay on the men’s side with Western Michigan added on the women’s side. 
The Irish start their season when the race begins at 6 p.m. Friday in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




 The Belles are looking to im­prove upon their 2010 record of 
Features 
5-21. The only participant in the 
continued from page 20 2011 Mount Union Invitational that Saint Mary’s faced last year is Hope, the source of two 3-0 
three leaders in kills. Returning Belles defeats last season. from injury and looking to lead “We have nowhere to go but the team’s freshmen is senior up,” Kuschel said. “We’ve been setter Danie Brink, who is back in the gym since Aug. 18, get-after less than a year recovering ting a lot of touches on the ball from a torn ACL. and doing a lot of team building. 
“It’s very exciting for our of-Everyone’s been working hard in fense,” Kuschel said. “[Our other the gym.” starters are] junior outside hitter The Belles will begin the tour-Stephanie Bodien, junior middle nament Friday at 4 p.m. when hitter Allison Zandarski, sopho-they face Mount Union. more middle hitter Christi Wyble, and our senior libero Meg Rose is Contact laura Coletti at our go-to defensive player.” lcoletti@nd.edu 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

From left to right, junior goalkeeper Maddie Fox, junior forward Lindsay Brown and sophomore midfielder Rebecca Twining lock arms before Notre Dame’s season opener. 
Opener 
continued from page 20 
in practice and time in the preseason matches. Mean­while Voigt was sidelined with an ankle injury she sustained while playing in Germany. When the Aug. 19 home opener against Wis­consin arrived, it was Fox who earned the start in the net, recording three saves and her first solo shutout. 
“[Fox and Jasper] were our keepers in the preseason, and it was clear that Maddie had the upper hand there,” Waldrum said. “We started her against Wisconsin, and she played very well for us.” 
While Fox had claimed the job after the preseason, Voigt returned shortly be­fore the game against the 
Badgers, and immediately she’s better with balls in started making up for lost the air. She probably would 
time. Voigt, the na­tion’s No. 1 goa lkeep ­er recruit, showed so much prog­ress that last week­end she got the nod to start against two of Notre Dame’s big­gest match-ups all year: No. 2 North Carolina and No. 21 Duke at the Caro­lina Classic. 
“[Fox] is a great shot stopper, especially in tight.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
have got­ten the start against Wis­consin if we thought she was ready.” 
With Voigt at the back, the Irish took to the field in Car­olina. 
However, their week­end took a turn for the worse af­ter a heart­breaking 2-1 loss to the Tar Heels in 
“[Fox] is a great shot stop-overtime, and was totally per, especially in tight,” soured with a thorough 3-1 Waldrum said. “But [Voigt] beating at the hands of the has a bit more height, and Blue Devils. 
Despite the results, Wal-while Voigt may have the drum was pleased with his starting spot for now, Wal­
young goal­keeper’s play. 
“ [ Vo ig t] played very well this weekend,” Wald rum said. “Maybe one of the goals she could have handled dif­ferently, but there’s not much she could have done. There wasn’t a lot 
“[Voigt] played very well this weekend. Maybe one of the goals she could have handled differently, but there’s not much she could have done.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
of help from the 10 people in front of her.” 
Heading forward now, the Irish will look to right the ship this weekend against Tulsa and Indiana. And drum insist­ed all three goalies need to stay sharp and keep im­proving. 
“[Voigt] is going to be our start­er for this weekend, ” he said. “If she contin­ues to play well, then you could say it’s her job to lose. The big thing is 
to keep Maddie ready at the drop of the hat, and she’s done that so far.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 1, 2011 





____________________ 
Thursday, September 1, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Goal searching 
Defending champs still looking for replacement for graduated star Weiss 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Over the course of last year’s national champion­ship season, one of the sure things for Notre Dame was goalkeeper Nikki Weiss. Weiss had the size and poise to lead the team from the back line, and started every game through the national championship run. 
While Weiss’ presence in the goal may have been the winning difference for the team last season, her graduation now leaves Irish coach Randy Waldrum with a unique dilemma. 
“It’s always tough when you lose someone with that much experience,” Waldrum said. “It’s probably hardest with goalies, because while field players change more frequently within the play of the game, the backup goalie doesn’t see a lot of meaning­ful minutes.” 
With Weiss gone, the Irish now have three goalkeeping candidates. The lone return­er is junior Maddie Fox, who only gave up an own-goal in her first two seasons. Join­ing her on the roster are highly touted freshmen Sar­ah Voigt and Jennifer Jas­per. 
It has been said that a team with two goalkeepers has no goalkeeper at all, and three would only muddle the situation further. For the moment though, Waldrum has no problem with having three keepers in the mix. 
“You want a competition,” he said. “It’s great to have them pushing each other. As we get deeper into the season we’ll want a definite starter, but for the next few weeks, it’s still an open as­sessment.” 
That assessment began in the summer preseason. Fox and Jasper battled for the top spot, splitting reps 
see OPENER/page 18 


SMC SOCCER 

Experienced squad expects to improve in MIAA competition 
By MATT UNGER “We return most of our “She’s a natural center mid-ing strong at all 11 positions lowing day, the team takes on Sports Writer starters and impact players fielder and got stronger as the on the field, as he believed Thiel College from the same 
which should help us out to a season went on,” Joyce said. weaknesses at some positions location. 
Although the program has fast start,” Joyce said. “They “We’re looking for her to be-cost the Belles in close games “We’re looking for a 2-0 struggled in recent years, know what it takes to win and come one of the elite players last season. He also expects start this weekend,” Joyce Belles coach Michael Joyce be successful in the [MIAA] in the league.” contributions from freshman said. “We’d like to get in the expects his squad to improve conference.” Senior co-captain midfield-defender Kerry Green. rhythm of winning and suc­this year and make great Joyce expects big contribu-er and forward Katelyn Ton-“[Green] has looked very im-cess, so we expect it every strides toward competing in tions from returning starter do-Steele led the team with pressive in practices so far,” time we play. “ conference play. and sophomore midfielder four goals last season, and Joyce said. “She’s athletic, Following this weekend’s 
In Joyce’s first year with the Mollie Valencia, who was an Joyce expects her to continue a great tackler and can play Defiance Classic, Saint Mary’s Belles program in 2010, the All-MIAA selection last sea-her offensive role. Senior de-great balls out of the back.” returns Tuesday for their team finished 3-16, but the son. Valencia tied for second fender Michelle Marshall will The Belles start their sea-home opener against Man-coach hopes those losses will in scoring on the team with serve as the other co-captain. son Friday at Defiance Classic chester College. lead to a growing experience three goals and tied for first While on the recruiting in Ohio, where they will face in 2011. in assists with two. trail, Joyce emphasized be-host Defiance College. The fol-see LOOKING/page 15 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Piane gives veterans a break 
By MATTHEW DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will open its season this weekend during the Crusader Invitational host­ed by Valparaiso on Friday. 
Fresh faces will lead the No. 23 Irish men’s squad in the meet. No members that ran in the NCAAs will compete in this race, Irish coach Joe Pi­ane said. 
“This is an opportunity for some kids to race at the colle­giate distance,” Piane said. “I don’t want to race some of the older guys quite yet.” 
Freshmen Jason Hoard and Christopher Quinn will see 
see ROOKIES/page 17 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles travel to Ohio for stiff competition 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles are back in ac­tion Friday as they begin their season with a trip to Alliance, Ohio for the Mount Union Invi­tational. 
Along with host Mount Union and Saint Mary’s, the tour­nament features nationally-ranked Hope, Mount Saint Jo­seph, Case Western Reserve, Allegheny, and Geneva. The two-day tournament is back this year after a one-year ab­sence and promises to be com­petitive, according to third-year Belles coach Toni Kuschel. 
“Our competition’s going to be very tough,” she said. “We’re going to be facing some nation­al contenders and we’re going to be expecting a lot from a lot of freshman. They’ll be getting some playing time this week­end as we try to figure out our starting rotation and get ready to face Kalamazoo next Tues­day when we start conference play.” 
The squad is stacked with an eight-member freshman class, but also features several key veterans, including a 1,000 ca­reer dig player and the top 
see FEATURES/page 17 





