The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Doyle reorganizes Student Affairs 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle did not waste time making changes to his department after he as­sumed his position last year. 
Doyle immediately evaluated the 41 total offices under the Office of Student Affairs, and designed a new structure for the department that took effect June 1. 
“I thought about what the structure of Student Affairs needed to be, and I felt it re­ally needed to reflect what my mission and the mission of the congregation of Holy Cross is,” Doyle said. “How do we help students develop into a sense of whole being?” 

The Office of Student Affairs is now broken into five divisions 
— Residential Life, Mission and Integration, Student Services, Finance and Operations and Student Development. 
“The Office of Student Affairs 


see AFFAIRS/page 5 




By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Students swarmed the Joyce Center Fieldhouse to sign up for campus clubs and organizations during Activities Night 2011 Tuesday. 
The Student Activities Office (SAO) sponsored the annual event, allowing students to ex­plore the University’s 298 under­graduate groups. 


SAO holds annual student activities night 
SAO Assistant Director Brian Fremeau said the office esti­mated an attendance of around 4,000 students. 
“It could have been higher even. If you count the partici­pants at the tables, that could add another 500,” he said. “It’s one of the largest events of the calendar year for student events.” 
First-year students repre­
see SAO/page 4 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


COR discusses student safety 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
In the wake of the party busts, student arrests and alcohol-re­lated citations that marked the 2010-11 school year, the Council of Representatives (COR) kicked off its first fall meeting with an update on student safety Tues­day. 
“We’re really trying to be de­liberate in the first thing we address by making sure all our bases are covered with student safety,” student body president Pat McCormick said. 
Though the first weekend of the fall has historically seen a spike in police-related incidents, student body vice president Brett Rocheleau was pleased to inform the group that no student arrests had yet occurred. 
TOM YOUNG/The Observer 
“It’s great news coming from 

Pat McCormick, left, and Brett Rocheleau update the Council of see COR/page 4 Representatives Tuesday on their recent safety talks with police. 

Garcia listed in fair condition after surgery 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
After a facial surgery Tues­day morning, a hospital spokes­woman said the Notre Dame se­nior who fell from his third-floor apartment window last week is in fair condi­tion at Me­morial Hos­pital. 
Marcus Garcia was listed in critical con­dition after his accident early Thursday morning, Me­morial representative Maggie Scroope said. The hospital’s scale of four possible ratings ranges from critical to good condition. 

Garcia, 21, fell from his apart­ment window in The Foundry Lofts and Apartments around 
4:30 a.m. Thursday. An em­ployee at a local bar saw Garcia fall as she left work for the night and called 911. 
Garcia fluctuated be­tween “critical” and “serious” throughout the weekend but progressed to “fair” early this week, Scroope said. 
Kimberly and Juan Garcia, Marcus’ parents, updated his Facebook page frequently after the accident, and a post Tues­day morning continued to re­flect their optimism about his recovery. 
“They are getting Marcus ready for surgery,” the post stated. “This in itself is amaz­ing that he and his body are ready for this next big progres­
see GARCIA/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Urban Outfitters opens for business page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u The 90’s Are All That page 10 u Brian Kelly anticipates South Florida page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S THE COOLEST CLUB ON CAMPUS? 






www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Katie Walsh Peter Freeby Robert Blume 
sophomore freshman junior Breen Phillips Pulte Duncan 
“The “The “Engineering Equestrian Leprechaun without Club.” Legion.” Borders.” 
Emily Baker 

sophomore Breen Phillips 
“Women’s boxing.” 
Andrew Brady 
sophomore Duncan 
“Squash Club.” 
Paul Mundaden 
junior Duncan 
“Rec Sports.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Amanda Gray Mel Flanagan Jillian Barwick 

Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 

Photo 
Suzanna Pratt 


Sports 

Molly Sammon Katherine Heit Joseph Wirth 

Scene 

Marissa Forbes 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 

Italy town mints own money to fight austerity
 ROME — A small town in central Italy is trying to go independent and mint its own money in protest at government austerity cuts.
 Filettino has only around 550 people, but instead of merging with neighbouring Trevi, mayor Luca Sellari is trying to go it alone and set up a “principality” along the lines of the famous re­public of San Marino to the north.
 He has started minting Filettino’s own bank cur­rency, the “Fiorito,” with his photo on the back, which he says is already being used by the townsfolk.
 “We aim to achieve real autonomy from Italy and we have the financial resourc­es to do it,” Sellari said in an interview on the town’s website.
 Mayors plan a protest in Milan on Monday although media reports say the gov­ernment is preparing sig­nificant changes to the bud­get, including a substantial dilution of the proposals on local government. 
Boy trapped in bus after driver forgets him 
BERLIN — An eight-year­old boy was inadvertently locked inside a school bus for more than 12 hours on a steamy hot day in the east­ern German town of Cott­bus after the driver forgot about him, German daily Bild reported on Friday. 
The boy got on the bus at his home in the morning but did not show up for school. After dropping the children off, the bus driver returned to the bus company’s trans­port lot but did not notice that the one young passen­ger was still on board. 
“The bus was parked far away and wasn’t very vis­ible from the office,” po­lice spokesperson Torsten Wendt was quoted saying. It was only when his mother anxiously called the au­thorities that boy’s disap­pearance was noticed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
“The Epic and the Inti­mate:” French Drawings from the John D. Reilly Col­lection Exhibit are current­ly on display at the Snite Museum of Art today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The draw­ings offer visitors an oppor­tunity to explore the range of media employed. Admis­sion is free to all. 
Today from 4 to 5 p.m. join Professor David Ben­nett in room 118 Niewland Science Hall for the Physics Colloquium: Finding the Cool Planets with Gravita­tional Microlensing. This lecture is free and open to the public. 
There will be a Catechist Information Session this evening from 6 to 7 p.m. in room 330 Coleman Morse hosted by Campus Ministry. Catechist Formation offers students an opportunity to learn about the catecheti­cal ministry and to teach religion in local parish programs. The event is free and open to the public. 
NDSP, the Community Relations Office and Stu­dent Government are co­sponsoring a Student Safety Summit on the Irish Green tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. Representatives of the area police agencies will talk about safety, the commu­nity and law enforcement and resources available to students. Food and soft drinks will be provided. There will also be drawings for door prizes donated by area vendors. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH 82 LOW 66 
HIGH 94 LOW 72 
HIGH 98 LOW 71 
HIGH 84 LOW 65 
HIGH 79 LOW 54 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY GAMEDAY SUNDAY 











CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Outfitters welcomes students 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
Students often complain about lackluster shopping op­tions in South Bend, but the recent opening of Urban Out­fitters at Eddy Street Commons marks a new retail choice for even the savviest shoppers. 
The store, which opened Thursday, is a welcome addi­tion to the other Eddy Street Commons shops, junior Shan­non Hughes said after brows­ing clothing racks between classes. 
“It’s really exciting to have a more trendy store around here,” she said. “University Park Mall has some good op­tions, but the location of Urban Outfitters is so much more con­venient.” 
Eddy Street Commons, locat­ed within walking distance of Notre Dame campus, has made shopping easier, Hughes said. 
“This is great for the un­derclassmen, and especially the freshmen, who can’t have cars on campus,” Hughes said. “They don’t have to worry about taking a bus or finding a ride.” 
Store Manager Erik Zim­merman said business has been steady since the retailer’s opening. 
“I hope to see a surge of activity from the visitors on campus this upcoming football weekend,” he said. 
Eddy Street Commons’ new­est outlet not only provides an exciting new shopping location for students, but also signi­fies the expansion of the Com­mons, Lori Wick, Eddy Street Commons marketing director said. 



“We’ve seen a lot of devel­opment in the last few years,” Wick said. “Hopefully it will continue to grow in years to come.” 
Wick also named a few new businesses that will open in the coming months. 
“McAlister’s Deli is set to open in September, and Broth­ers Bar & Grill will be open­ing at the end of October,” she said. 
Another business, whose name has yet to be announced, will likely open its doors at Eddy Street Commons this fall as well. 
“With all the new shops, Eddy Street is starting to be­come another hangout for stu­dents,” Wick said. 
In the past, students have expressed a need for such a “hangout,” an off-campus place of their own where they do not have to worry about dis­turbing the residents of South Bend, junior Kathryn Ander­sen said. 
“Notre Dame doesn’t re­ally have its own college town around it, like so many other schools do,” she said. “There are plenty of little stores spread throughout South Bend, but the people who live here probably don’t appreciate us taking over their town.” 
Many people see Eddy Street Commons as a simple solution, she said. 
“Hopefully it will continue to develop so we can have more of our own place, with bars, shops and restaurants,” An­dersen said. 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 
BAVO/SGA picnic kicks off semester 
By ABBY FORNEY and CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer and Saint Mary’s Editor 
Students gathered to decorate t-shirts, make crafts and speak out about violence at the Saint Mary’s College Belle’s Against Violence Office (BAVO) and Stu­dent Government Association (SGA) kick-off event Tuesday. 
The event, themed “Because You’re Worth It,” focused on reaching students through food and activities, and reinforced BAVO’s connection with the SGA. 
Angela Berra, student chair of the BAVO event, said the com­mittee wanted to tackle a heavy topic while still having fun. 
“[The] goal for the kick-off event was to bring the Belles Against Violence Office and our passion to raise awareness about the issues of sexual as­sault, relationship violence and stalking to the Saint Mary’s community in a different and fun way.” 
With a DJ blaring empow­ering songs like Katy Perry’s “Firework” and a modern re­mixed version of “Hit the Road, Jack,” the event was hard to miss. As part of the awareness initiatives, a clothesline draped with shirts hung between two trees. One shirt said, “Fall Back on Your SMC Sisters: You Are Not Alone.” 
First year Madeline Havril­la and sophomore Kira Ter­rill decorated t-shirts for the clothesline project to show their respect for victims of violence. 
“We stumbled out onto it here, and it looked like fun,” Havrilla said. 
Other activities included a photo booth, yoga, craft proj­ects and a barbeque. 
Senior Anabel Castaneda said the event was an impor­tant step in increasing aware­ness. 
“Not a lot of people are aware of these injustices, or they don’t want to admit that it happens here on campus,” she said. “We live in a bubble, but we’re com­ing together as a community.” 
Students involved with BAVO spoke about the different ac­tivities the office sponsors throughout the year, including the Clothesline Project, SAFE self-defense classes and Green Dot, a class on violence inter­vention. 
Senior Bridget Gartenmayer said she was happy to see BAVO and SGA reaching out to the community so early. 
“The BAVO/SGA picnic was a fantastic way to gather the en­tire Saint Mary’s community to teach about both BAVO and SGA services,” she said. “Both offic­es offer many helpful resources for students. Many students are unaware of the significant help BAVO and SGA can provide stu­dents, so it’s great that they are spreading the word early.” 
Gartenmayer’s reaction was just what Berra was looking for. 
“[I] hope that students will take away the knowledge of the BAVO office and our services of­fered,” she said. “We also want everyone to know that even though we cover some contro­versial topics, we can do it in a fun and exciting way. We are a great resource on campus and are willing to help.” 
Contact Abby Forney at aforne01@saintmarys.edu and Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

even though I’m not really from mizing Activities Night” event for was a popular event. It was open club. Erin Hattler, co-president Texas,” he said. “I’m going to participating clubs Aug. 24. to all and non-mandatory,” Fre-of ND-8, said her club created 
SAO 

look at a bunch more clubs — I’m “Activities Night is an annual meau said. “Many of the new committees for their members to continued from page 1 just getting started here.” event, so in a sense it is pre-groups took advantage of that join. She said she hopes this will Belles from Saint Mary’s Col-pared for throughout the year. more than others.” help ND-8 progress even further 
lege also made their way over to This year we held a meeting to One group representative who as a group. sented the majority of attendees look into organizations at Notre discuss how to take advantage attended the meeting was Alex “We’re giving everyone roles. investigating the academic, ath-Dame. of following Coccia, co-Having everyone involved will letic, cultural, media and service “Especially as a freshman, up with inter-president of help us in the fight against wom­
“The room can be 
associations, Fremeau said. it’s really to get out there and ested students the Progres-en trafficking,” Hattler said. “If 
overwhelming with all sive Student 
Upperclassmen attended the do stuff,” freshman Annemarie and retain-people work towards it together, event as well, though there was Loessberg said. “I’m looking at ing them,” he that is going on, but this Alliance. Coc-we might even be having a one-a certain en-Anthropol -said. “Groups isn’t the one shot to get cia said the credit course next semester.” thusiasm ex-ogy club, Ara-are more con-involved or sign up for a meeting was While the excitement of join­hibited by the “Activities Night is an bic club and scious of the group. You can connect e s p e c ia l l y ing clubs and organizations freshmen, he annual event, so in a I guess what-need to engage to those groups through helpful when reached a high during Activities said. ever else I see students in the different club Night, Fremeau said he suggests 
sense it is prepared for our office or directly 
“I think the out there.” club now.” mem b er s students continue with enthusi­
throughout the year. This by contacting them.” 
excitement for Loessberg Clubs who spoke about asm past the evening. 
year we held a meeting 
the first year is said she didn’t attended the the experi-“The room can be overwhelm-
to discuss how to take Brian Fremeau 
evident at Ac-believe at-d i s c u s s i o n ences they had ing with all that is going on, but 
advantage of following up assistant director 
tivities Night. tending meet-learned to ef-at previous Ac-this isn’t the one shot to get in-Many students with interested students ings on Notre fectively or-Student Activities Office tivities Nights. volved or sign up for a group,” he are trying to and retaining them.” Dame’s cam-ganize a table “To help said. “You can connect to those find ways to pus would be and showcase recruit mem-groups through our office or di­get involved,” Brian Fremeau too difficult. the principles of their group, bers we have candy at the table. rectly by contacting them.” he said. “That “They have according to Fremeau. Visual One thing we will do in terms of Every recognized club and 
assistant director 
e n t h u s i a s m the bus all day, representation was a key topic, maintaining a group of dedicat-organization on campus has in-
Student Activities Office 
is key to the so it should be as was gauging the true interest ed people is to have one-on-one formation available on the SAO night.” pretty easy,” students had in the group, rather interactions to gauge how much website at sao.nd.edu. Fremeau 
F r e s h m a n she said. “I’ll than simply collecting names. He they want to contribute to the said he encourages any students Devin Duffy said he came to Ac-definitely make it work for some-said the meeting stressed active club,” he said. “There was also interested in joining an activ­tivities Night with an open mind thing they don’t have at SMC.” involvement and moving orga-one suggestion of sending out ity to visit and look through the when considering which groups To prepare for students such as nizations forward with student-Christmas cards that I liked.” various descriptions. to join. Duffy and Loessberg interested driven momentum. Other clubs also considered 
“I signed up for Chess Club, in joining these organizations, “We didn’t have 100 percent how they would maintain mem-Contact Nicole Toczauer at Mock Trial Club and Texas Club Fremeau said SAO held a “Maxi-participation, but it definitely bers once they signed up for the ntoczaue@nd.edu 

SCHILLER LIN/The Observer 

Club leaders try to persuade interested students to join their groups at Activities Night on Tuesday in the Joyce Center. Activities Night, sponsored by SAO, featured 298 undergraduate clubs. 
COR 
continued from page 1 
last year, when at this time we had nearly 80 arrests,” he said. “Now, we have zero to date.” 
Drawing statistics from a sto­ry in Monday’s South Bend Tri­bune, chief of staff Claire Sokas reported only two student cita­tions from a total of 56 given in the area this weekend. 
The drop in citations may be due in part to a recent police policy change outlined in an Aug. 11 email to students from student government. 
The email stated police “will exercise discretion in address­ing complaints regarding stu­dent gatherings ... If there are no outward signs of underage drinking, public urination, ex­treme littering, traffic obstruc­tions or disrespect, the dis­patched officers will most likely issue a warning to the house in­stead of immediately issuing ci­tations and/or making arrests.” 
Rocheleau discussed two re­ported incidents of student par­ties attracting police attention this week. He said the officers acted in accordance with the new policy. 
“They did exactly what they said they’d do. They got the first [noise disturbance] call, came by and told [the residents] to quiet down. They didn’t get a second call, so they didn’t come back,” he said. “The second party was out of control, so they didn’t give a warning, but they didn’t make any arrests, they just gave a noise citation.” 
While the policy of discretion may relieve some students, So­kas emphasized the warnings will only be offered once to each house, not for each party. 
“Some people are under the 
impression the warnings are good for the en­tire year,” she said. “The way we’ve been in­terpreting this is that it’s for the first call to the house of the year, that it’s a warning.” 
Rocheleau reminded members that the discretionary 
“This procedure has been put in place by SBPD, and the [Saint Joseph] County and [Indiana State] Excise Police have not guaranteed they’ll follow it,” he said. “For game days, [excise po­lice] will be on campus.” 
Beyond negotiations with lo­cal law enforcement, McCor­mick said he hopes to increase student safety through educa­tional events such as the Student 

“It’s slightly vague in that they said they can break up the party on first call or they can give a warning. It’s completely at their discretion.” 
Brett Rocheleau student body vice president 
nature of 
the policy leaves no clear stan­dards as far as which parties get warned and which get busted. 
“It’s slightly vague in that they said they can break up the par­ty on first call or they can give a warning,” he said. “It’s com­pletely at their discretion.” 
McCormick also specified that the policy is limited to the South Bend Police Department (SBPD), and students should not expect similar warnings before receiv­ing citations at tailgates and other events. 
Safety Summit, which takes place today at 6 p.m. on the Irish Green. Area police agencies will offer presenta­tions, followed by a question-and -answer 
session.  
“  W  e  ’  v  e  
changed  the  

location so it’s 
more accessible,” he said. “We hope this is another way for us to facilitate communication.” 
Regardless of how informed students are about drinking laws, police policies and off-campus safety tips, Sokas said students choosing to drink un­derage can never count on law enforcement being lenient or is­suing a warning. 
“It’s a privilege and not a right,” she said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Affairs 
continued from page 1 
isn’t 41 things,” Doyle said. “It’s one. And the one thing it needs to be is integrity, from the Lat­in ‘integral,’ or whole … The structure tries to reflect what I think is how we put all these things together.” 
The reordered office will work more efficiently toward the University’s mission, Doyle said. 
“You’re part of the mission that was started by Fr. Moreau and Fr. Sorin about educating people in the fullest and most whole sense of the way. That’s what people come to work for,” Doyle said. “They want to come to work because they want to have an impact on the world, and there’s no better people to work with than Notre Dame students.” 
‘Unified diversity’ 
The most significant change Doyle made was splitting the former Office of Residence Life and Housing into two divisions 
– Residential Life and Student Development. 
The Residential Life branch incorporates the Office of Housing, Doyle said. Student Development includes the Stu­dent Activities Office and the Office of Residence Life, which handles student conduct and discipline. 
Doyle said he combined the Office of Student Activities and the disciplinary Office of Residence Life because the two branches work for the same goal. 

“It’s the same stuff,” Doyle said. “It’s about development. It’s about working and grow­ing from the strengths that you have but also about working from the stumbles and falls that you have.” 
Doyle said the name for the Office of Residence Life, the di­vision that deals with student conduct, might change in the future to avoid confusion with the Residential Life branch, which deals with housing. 
Residential Life 
Heather Rakozcy Russell, former director of the Gender Relations Center, began her position as the associate vice president for Residential Life in 
April. Her posi­tion encompass­es management of all hall staff, planning for resi­dential facilities and the Office of Housing. 
“My areas to oversee are the 31 rectors, which are 29 under­graduate and two graduate, as well as the Office of Housing,” Russell said.  “The Office of Residence Life is going to the conduct office re-report to one person,” Russell said. “That’s a big switch … Part of Fr. Tom’s vision is to have one person who would be the linchpin over all of the rec­tors, one voice who would be communicating the same mes­sage and the same account­ability to all of the rectors.” 
Russell, the former rector of Pangborn Hall, said her mes­sage is one of “unified diver­sity.” 
“I think there are things that are unique to the halls that should stay unique to the halls,” Russell said. “I also think a big part of my job is to help iden­tify the universals that should cut across and define all resi­dential life to which all rectors 
“We see it as an opportunity to take a look at how our office functions, what we do well and what we want to improve. We can make sure everything we do is intentional.” 
Kathleen O’Leary director Office of Residential Life 
porting to Brian Coughlin, and housing reports to me.” 
Before the reorganization, Russell said groups of five or six rectors reported to sepa­rate people in the Office of Stu­dent Affairs. 
“With regard to my job in particular, the new configura­tion is that all the rectors now are account­able. They are the hallmarks of what we hope build up the halls.” 
Russell talk­ed personally with each of the rectors to identify what did and did not work in each hall. She said she would also host discus­sions with hall staff through­out the year to talk about these 

issues candidly and in a group. 
“I think in a very simple way, people could say residen­tial life is about where you sleep at night,” Russell said. “But I think those of us who have lived in the system there know that it is something very unique, very special, very dif­ferent than that. It’s about the formation of the students.” 
Student Development 
Brian Coughlin now serves as the associate vice presi­dent of Student Development. His office includes the student conduct branch in the Office of Residence Life, run by Kath­leen O’Leary. 
As the school year begins, O’Leary called the new struc­ture “fruitful and positive.” 
“We see it as an opportunity to take a look at how our of­fice functions, what we do well and what we want to improve,” O’Leary said. “We can make sure everything we do is inten­tional.” 
O’Leary said the office would spend the year field­ing feedback from members of the Notre Dame community, benchmarking against peer institutions and hosting focus groups to discuss its policies. 
“In the coming year, we are going to be getting feedback from students, staff, faculty, parents and alumni,” O’Leary said. “We are looking at how we improve the work we do. It’s an open book right now.” 
The Office of Residence Life deals specifically with con­duct, but O’Leary said her staff wants to help students take full advantage of their time at Notre Dame. 
“I would hope students would know those people in our office and in the Office of Student Af­fairs have the same end goal of seeing their success at Notre Dame, seeing them go forward in the world with the same suc­cess,” O’Leary said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Garcia 
continued from page 1 
sive step. Please pray like never before for the three specialized surgeons’ minds, hands and hearts that they will be guided by God.” 
Garcia is able to communi­cate with his family and friends by writing messages on a white board, Kimberly Garcia said. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said many of Gar­cia’s friends gathered to pray for his recovery in his former residence hall Monday. 
“The overflowing crowd that came to Fisher Hall for Mass [Monday night] is a testament to the impact that he has had on the lives of so many members of our Notre Dame family,” McCor­mick said. “We are praying for him and will keep the prayers going until he is safely back home.” 
Students can sign a get-well card for Garcia in the student government office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Cen­ter until Friday. 
The Senior Class Council sent an email to the Class of 2012 about the card Tuesday. 
“As you all know, one of our fellow classmates, Marcus Gar­cia, is in the hospital recover­ing from an accident that hap­pened last Thursday,” the email stated. “Please keep him in your thoughts and prayers during the next couple of weeks … Let’s show Marcus he is not alone in this difficult time.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at  mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Three killed in oil explosion 
Associated Press 
CHEYENNE — Authori­ties won’t be able positively to identify the three workers killed in an oilfield explosion in eastern Wyoming until autopsies are performed on them, a company spokeswom­an said Tuesday. 
The blast occurred Monday at an oil production site on a private ranch, about 40 miles northeast of Casper. 
It came as the men worked on a fuel line supplying a heater treatment facility that separates oil from water as the substances are pumped from the ground, said Dennis Neill, spokesman for Samson Resources Co. in Tulsa, Okla. 
The blast sparked a 10-acre fire before it was brought un­der control. 
The names of the men killed have not yet been released. The workers were employed by contractors that Samson had hired to bring an oil well back into production at the site, Neill said. The well wasn’t in­volved in the explosion or the fire on the Hornbuckle Ranch. 
“Obviously we’re very con­cerned about the family and friends in this situation,” Neill said. 
Tina Wells, spokeswoman for Samson, issued a state­ment Tuesday saying that the bodies of the men would be taken to Colorado for autopsy and positive identification. She said she didn’t know how long it would take to identify them. 

“It takes an autopsy to get a positive identification in this case,” Wells said. “And the au­thorities will not release any notification to you of who the victims might be until they have very definitive, positive identification.” 
Wells said the men worked for two local construction companies, identified as Wild West Construction and Double D Welding and Fabrication. Officials with the companies and Converse County Coroner Ross Gorman could not imme­diately be reached Tuesday for comment. 
Wells said Samson has ceased construction work on other facilities in Wyoming until a preliminary cause of the explosion can be deter­mined. 
Wyoming, a top energy-producing state, for years has ranked among the highest states in terms of per capita workplace fatalities. Wyoming lost its title as the deadliest state in the nation for work­ers to Montana last summer, largely due to a slowdown in Wyoming’s gas industry. 
The Wyoming State Senate rejected a bill early last year that would have increased em­ployer penalties for workplace safety violations. Then-Gov. 
Dave Freudenthal had urged passage of the bill, which in­dustry groups supported. 
The Wyoming Department of Workforce Services report­ed last week that the number of occupational fatalities in the state rose to 34 last year 
— an increase of nearly 79 percent from the prior year. Of those 34 deaths, 10 were in the natural resources and mining sector. A new federal ranking of state workplace death rates based on per full-time worker will be available next spring, said Sara Saulcy, senior economist with work­force services. 
According to preliminary figures from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, fatal work injuries nationwide in the pri­vate mining industry, which includes the oil and gas in­dustry, increased by 74 per­cent nationwide last year to 172 deaths. Of that number, fatalities in the oil and gas in­dustry accounted for 106, or about three-fifths, of the fatal work injuries. In 2009, 66 of the 99 mining industry deaths nationwide were in the oil and gas fields, according to BLS data. 
J.D. Danni, manager of the Wyoming Occupational Safety & Health Administration pro­gram, said Tuesday that Sam­son hasn’t received any cita­tions from the state in recent years. 
Obama encourages private hiring 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Limited in his ability to create jobs through direct spending, Presi­dent Barack Obama is consid­ering measures to encourage the private sector to free up its cash reserves and hire more workers to ease the nation’s unemployment crush. 
As Obama prepares to unveil a new jobs agenda next week, his aides are reviewing options that would provide tax incen­tives to employers who expand their payrolls. That approach is a more indirect effort to spur the economy and relies less on government intervention and massive public works projects. 
Among the proposals cir­culating in the White House is a $33 billion tax credit that Obama first proposed early last year but that Congress whittled into a smaller one-year pack­age. 
Under one version of the plan, employers would receive a tax credit of up to $5,000, subtracted from their share of federal payroll taxes, for every net new hire. White House of­ficials caution that the over­all jobs plan is still subject to change. 

The tax credit, however, is a relatively untested idea. Con­gress passed a version in March 2010, known as the HIRE Act, which provided $13 billion in tax credits to qualified employ­ers who hired new workers. But there is no government data to track its success. 
“The HIRE Act was very small,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analyt­ics and an occasional adviser to Democrats and Republicans. “It really didn’t add to pay­rolls.” 
“It would have to be bigger,” he added. “Something more along the lines that the Obama administration proposed in 2010.” 
While promising a major jobs package, Obama is hamstrung by budget cuts and a tight debt ceiling that he had a hand in negotiating. 
As a result, economists pre­dict that while the president’s initiatives could eliminate some drag on the economy and maintain the status quo, they won’t be enough to propel it to new heights 
Still, Obama on Wednesday predicted his plan could push the economy to grow 1 percent to 1.5 percent faster. 
“That could mean half a million to a million additional jobs,” he said Tuesday in an in­terview with radio talk show host Tom Joyner. 
Obama’s jobs package is designed to supplement oth­er proposals already in the pipeline, including free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama and the renewal of a highway construc­tion bill. 

US flight schools still scrutinized after 9/11 

Associated Press 
ORMOND BEACH — Ten years after the 9/11 attacks, govern­ment screening has made it harder for foreign students to enroll in civilian flight schools as a handful of the hijackers did, banking on America be­ing inviting and a place to learn quickly. 
But the most rigorous checks don’t apply to all students and instructors, so schools and trainers have to be especially alert to weed out would-be ter­rorists. 
“Prior to 9/11, I wouldn’t have had the phone number and name of my local FBI agent posted on my wall. I do,” said Patrick Murphy, director of training at Sunrise Aviation in Ormond Beach, Fla., near Day­tona Beach. 
Hundreds of U.S. flight schools fiercely compete for students. In Florida, some still pitch the good weather as a way for students to fly more often and finish programs faster. The 9/11 hijackers sought out U.S. schools partly because they were seen as requiring shorter training periods. 
Florida schools have rea­son to be careful: Three of the 9/11 hijackers were simulating flights in large jets within six months of arriving for training in Venice, Fla., along the Gulf Coast. Mohamed Atta, the oper­ational leader of the hijackings, and Marwan al Shehhi enrolled in an accelerated pilot program at Huffman Aviation, while Ziad Jarrah entered a private pilot program nearby. 
The terrorists obtained li­censes and certifications de­spite rowdy behavior and poor performance at times. 
The U.S. commission that in­vestigated the attacks said in its report that Atta and Shehhi quickly took solo flights and passed a private pilot airman test. The two later enrolled at another school, where an in­structor said the two were rude and aggressive, and sometimes even fought to take over the controls during training flights. They failed an instruments rat­ing exam. Undeterred, they re­turned to Huffman. Meanwhile, Jarrah received a single-engine private pilot certificate. 
Hani Hanjour obtained his private pilot license after about three months of training in Ari­zona. Several more months of training yielded a commercial pilot certificate, issued by the Federal Aviation Administra­tion. In early 2001, he started training on a Boeing 737 simu­lator. An instructor found his work substandard and advised him to quit, but he continued and finished the training just 5½ months before the attacks, the commission said. 
Today, it would be tougher for the four men to enter U.S. flight schools. 
There is a stricter visa pro­cess for foreign students seek­ing flight training in the U.S. They cannot start until the Transportation Security Ad­ministration, created after Sept. 11 to protect U.S. air travel, runs a fingerprint-based criminal background check with the FBI’s help and runs their names against terrorist watch lists. TSA inspectors visit FAA-certified flight schools at least once a year to make sure students have proper documen­tation verifying their identities and haven’t overstayed their visas. 
Plus, TSA shares intelligence with other agencies and has other layers of security to catch people before they can do harm even if they slipped through the cracks and were able to get flight training in the U.S. 
The stepped-up measures involving flight schools are not foolproof or uniform, however. 
There are numerous flight in­structors with access to planes and simulators who don’t all get an annual TSA visit, and are subject only to random TSA in­spections if they train only U.S. citizens. The TSA has access to a database of all student pilots that is maintained by the FAA. But TSA said it only runs the names of U.S.-citizen students against watch lists, and not necessarily before those stu­dents can start their programs. 
TSA said the fingerprint­ing and criminal background checks done on foreign students before they can enter U.S. flight schools are not done on U.S. cit­izens. TransPac Aviation Acad­emy in Phoenix tells domestic applicants they need proof of citizenship, a high school di­ploma or college transcripts, a medical card, a driver’s license and any pilot licenses already held. Other schools do the same, said Tom Lippincott, TransPac’s vice president of business de­velopment. 
And one security measure never employed by the govern­ment, despite interest from the 9/11 commission, was re­quiring that transponders that help officials locate commer­cial planes can’t be turned off as the hijackers did. The FAA said if there is an electrical fire or malfunction, pilots must be able to turn off the transponder for safety reasons. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Everybody loses when schools break rules 
Back to the gridiron! As the college football season kicks off this weekend, the NCAA, its member institutions and fans can breathe a temporary sigh of relief. The public eye on the sport shifts away from rules violations and toward action on 
Matt Unger
the field. Top­ics such as “Will 

Sports Writer 
Notre Dame take the leap toward a BCS berth in Brian Kelly’s second season?” or “Can Oklahoma or another elite program end the SEC’s stronghold on the national championship?” offer a lighter fare in comparison to the ques­tions that have rocked the sport the past few seasons. 
These topics that should dominate any discussion of college football have been upstaged by off-the-field issues involving rules violations. 
While opposing fans love to see rival programs crushed by the authority of the NCAA, the overall health of the sport suffers when programs break rules. Granted, there was no sympa­thy in this part of the college football world for seeing Reggie Bush exposed for accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in gifts and Pete Carroll’s legacy tarnished for committing viola­tions and escaping to the NFL. 
Many were also thrilled to see mighty Ohio State fall flat on its face after a decade of dominance in the Big Ten. (Growing up as an Ohio State fan, it was a little painful seeing Jim Tres­sel and company exposed for major violations.) 
Even in last year’s national champi­onship game, commentators remained cynical on whether Auburn would be able to keep its title in the wake of Cam Newton allegations. 
Miami (FL) has recently managed to top them all, with stories of rogue boosters showering star athletes with gifts that have invoked mentioning of the death penalty. 
Rules violations have always oc­curred in the NCAA, with the most infamous example involving Southern Methodist University’s payment of play­ers warranting the death penalty for its football program in the 1980s. 
However, the number of violations is alarming for every college football program, whether they abide by the rules or not. The reasons for the prob­lems are numerous and stem from a detailed and sometimes contradictory NCAA bylaws system that schools and coaches struggle to track along with gifts offered to players in college towns and cities. 
The solutions are not simple and may require the NCAA to rework its bylaws, allow stipends for student athletes, etc. But for now, the integrity of the game suffers when even the controversy of the BCS is upstaged by rules’ viola­tions. 
Here’s hoping this season is less about which programs will next be stripped of national championships and more about the outcomes on the field. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Unger at      munger3@nd.edu 

Years ago, when “return to glory” was meant to address the anticipated football accomplishments of Tyrone Willingham, Ty gave a speech at the Washington game pep rally which I will never forget, and so I start with that: 
A man got the chance to visit both heaven and hell be­fore he died. For travel reasons he decided to visit hell first. When he ar­rived, he saw a group of people huddled around a cauldron of stew. This stew was their food. However, each person was starving with a disintegrating body, be­cause each person had a very long spoon that was so long it could not reach one’s own mouth. And so, in hell, each person continued to starve. 
Then the man went to heaven, and the scene was the same. A group of people was huddled around the cauldron, with their long spoons. But instead of attempt­ing to feed themselves, all those in the circle fed the people next to them, for the spoon reached that far. 
Ty used this story to talk about team­work — that helping the one next to us is what allows us to survive — making me think of the idea embodied by a phrase spoken in Zimbabwe, “Ndakasimba Kana Makasimbawo,” or “I am strong if you are strong.” 
In hell, it was the selfishness of the condemned that forced them to remain so. In heaven, it was the generosity of the saved that granted them eternal happi­ness. These images of the beyond, that timeless void which we constantly try to understand, can be applied to our cur­rent lives, which can themselves become narrow voids if the selfishness of hell does creep into our dispositions. The scene from heaven is the goal, and the scene from hell is what we all, some more than others, fall victims to every once in awhile. 
When I was in Uganda this summer, I did not come across a Ty. I did, however, come across an entire community that 

Alex Coccia 
Shard of Glass 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it from a religious conviction.” 
Blaise Pascal French mathematician 
Eva’s broom 
embodies the belief in his story. Anyone who has traveled abroad to Uganda, who has stayed with someone in a village, who has visited the homes of people who have nothing but the roofs over their heads, can attest to the generosity of the community. Generosity there is the rule, not the exception. 
Gerda Weissmann Klein, a Holocaust survivor, tells the story of her friend who “found a raspberry in the concentration camp and carried it in her pocket all day” to give to Gerda that night on a leaf. “Imagine a world,” she says, “in which your entire possession is one raspberry and you give it to your friend.” This world exists. It’s a world whose inhabitants own little, but give more. 
Generosity such as I experienced in Uganda is difficult to accept, but under­stood in the context of their world-view, it is humbling. The people in the com­munity are hospitable and welcoming even if it inconveniences them. Although, that’s my Westernized, narrow-focused self speaking. 
For them, there is no question of incon­venience, nor did it seem like a concept which ever crossed their minds. Whenev­er I would visit a home to meet different families, I was given a gift as a symbol of their generosity and welcoming nature. Multiple people told me before my trip to expect their generosity. 
My favorite experience — and it is very hard to choose — was one at the end of my trip. It was the last day at the Prima­ry school in the village, and many of the kids brought things from home to give to me — avocados, pineapples, sugarcane, mangos, eggs and a live chicken. 
One girl, a student in Primary 4, pre­sented me with a broom. Many house­holds have these types of brooms, which they use to brush the loose dirt off of the path leading to the home. The resources to make these brooms — different reeds, leaves and straw — are available, but the process of making them is very time con­suming. 
The broom that Betty presented to me was not only so nicely woven and tied to­gether, but two names were also woven into the handle — a feat that takes great skill, time and artistic inclination. One name was mine, Alex. The other, Eva. Eva is Betty’s little sister. Although Betty had made it, she made it for me on behalf of her sister, Eva. It was not Betty’s, nor did she want the recognition of having made such a beautiful piece of functional art. She made it as a gift on behalf of her younger sister. 

Danielle Guilfoyle, a junior Veterinary Science major, told me about a similar experience of generosity she had while in Honduras at the Nuestros Pequeños Her­manos orphanage. Her first interaction with the children was at dinnertime. 
Everyone sat in a circle to eat. After a moment of silence before the meal, every­one quickly began eating. When someone finished, he or she would look to the next person and offer the other child the rest of the food. If neither of the children on either side needed the food, the child would get up and walk around the circle, offering his or her food to another child. 
In this true-life embodiment of Ty’s message, the kids displayed selfless gen­erosity. It is just something that they do. It runs deeply in their culture. 
As Danielle said, “They think about their lives within the context of an entire group” — their community, which, look­ing in on from outside, seems a lot like heaven. 
And it is not just people in Uganda or Honduras. There are plenty of places in the world, I imagine, whose inhabitants too view guests and others as a blessing. So why even mention them? Why even mention Betty, when she did not ask for nor want any recognition for what she did on behalf of her sister? 
I mention them as a source of inspira­tion for us. No one asked the children to get up and walk around the circle offer­ing their food. It was something they did, no questions, no qualms and no com­plaints. Their love is what we owe each other – as human beings, as members of a community, which, all too often, loses sight of Ty’s vision of heaven. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
WEEKLY POLL 
What are you doing before the game on Saturday? 
a) Eating free food at tailgates 
b) Playing cornhole 
c) Painting my body green 
d) All of the above 
Vote by Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Statistic without merit 
I’m not really a Rick Perry fan. I’m simply not. But that doesn’t change the fact that he has recently been accused of having a terrible health care system in the state of Texas. That accusation has been “justified” with the fact that 26 percent of Texas citizens lack health care. Unfortunately for these accusers, some statistics have little merit. 
Mr. Perry actually has a very solid health care system. For example, the free market has made health care cheaper in Texas than in most other states, even adjusting for the cost of living. The growth of premium costs in the state has in­creased for individual plans by only four percent from 2003 to 2009. This is 20 percent less than the national average (five percent), and 44 percent less than Mitt Romney’s government-run and mandated health care in Massachusetts (7.1 per­cent). Yes, that’s 7.1 percent to four percent. Yay for state-run health care! 
People who think that Texas is just cheap in health care spending are also misguided. There is a larger percentage of people on Medicaid in Tex­as than in the nation as a whole (16 percent as op­posed to 15.7 percent). Despite this, Texas saves a considerable amount of money on Medicaid costs due to the state’s relatively cheap health care. The state spends only 5.1 percent of its budget on Med­icaid, as opposed to 15.7 percent nationwide and 
28.9 percent in Massachusetts, and this is despite the fact that a slightly larger percentage of Texans are on Medicaid than in other states. 
“But 26 percent of Texans don’t have health insurance,” some may cry out, desperately trying to swing the argument back to their side. Don’t worry here either, as this statistic’s actual signifi­cance is blown completely out of proportion. 
Approximately one-third of that 26 percent con­sists of illegal immigrants, while a decent num­ber more are the children of illegal immigrants. These people aren’t even United States citizens, let alone Texans. Why should the state be criti­cized for not being able to accommodate them? That 26 percent also includes anybody who has not had health insurance, even for a day, over the past two years. That means that if you dropped your health care insurance for a month while you were transitioning to the best health care cover­age in the entire world, you would be included in this 26 percent of “uninsured” citizens. Logical, right? 
Also, you can’t forget about the fact that some people simply don’t want to pay for health insur­ance. This is especially true in 20-30 year-olds, who are in the best shape of their life. They don’t mind taking the risk of not paying for coverage, and you know what? It normally pays off. There’s also the fact that you can rest assured that a siz­able chunk of that 26 percent isn’t going without their cell phone, their internet service, their cable 
T.V. etc. So while advocates of state run health care or anti-Perry people may try to make that 26 percent seem more significant than it really is, common sense and logic makes the number far less worthy of our attention, especially consider­ing Texas’s above average health care system. Al­though statistics may be an excellent way to make a point, just make sure those statistics actually have merit. 
Nicholas Frecker 
freshman Stanford Hall Aug. 29 
The pineapple bandwagon 
I would just like to thank Ms. O’Donnell for her article regarding the TV show Psych (“Pine­apples,” Aug. 30). They must have hired some­one clever at USA because in the past decade or so, the network has churned out a handful of extremely entertaining shows, Psych being my personal favorite. In a world where prime time T.V. is dominated by countless crime dramas that take themselves just a little too seriously (and one conspicuous imitation cough­TheMentalist-cough), Psych serves as a welcom­ing breath of pineapple-scented fresh air. The unorthodox antics of faux psychic Mr. Spencer combined with the delightfully uptight nature of Mr. Burton always keep me chuckling. 
And then there’s the witty banter. Oh, the witty banter. Laced with references ranging from 80’s music and cancelled sitcoms to B-list celebrities and the Pittsburgh Steelers, Shawn and Gus certainly keep the dialogue colorful. To get my girlfriend interested in the show, I pointed out that the interaction between Shawn and Gus has the same quick pace and back-and­forth sass demonstrated by the characters on one of her favorite shows, Gilmore Girls. She’s also now hooked on the show and we are both eagerly anticipating the return on Oct. 12. On that evening, I will grab my official pineapple pillow and enjoy the show as my Shawn and Gus bobbleheads look on approvingly. Oct. 12 at 10 p.m., channel 51 on ND cable. 
Brett Straka 
junior Siegfried Hall Aug. 30 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Size doesn’t matter 
Students of Notre Dame, 
Have you ever felt that pang of guilt when you throw away half a plate of food at the dining hall? Have you ever eaten until you are so full that you feel miserable? Do you feel remorse when you continually don’t use all of the meals on your meal plan? We have the perfect way to ease your unease. Three words: Wednesday Lunch Fast. 
Many of you have probably heard whispers about this mysterious group of masochistic do-gooders, but you may not know the whole truth. Allow me to clear up the confu­sion. Wednesday Lunch Fast does NOT mean you actually go without food. You do NOT have to sit in a circle to pray and sing kumbaya or pledge yourself to a life to poverty, chastity and obedience. You ONLY have to give up one meal per week from your meal plan and not swipe into the din­ing halls during lunch on Wednesdays. That simple. You can still use your flex points. Take it as an opportunity to explore some of the many excellent cafés scattered around campus that you otherwise would have never tried. 
If you have read a newspaper or watched the news any­time in the last month, then you are well aware of the hor­rible famine that is ongoing throughout the Horn of Africa. Any aid, no matter how miniscule, can go a long way to alleviate the suffering of these people. Last year alone, we were able to give $28,000 to international and local chari­ties working to end hunger. ALL of these funds were raised from the Wednesday Lunch Fast. 
Please seriously consider this easy way to give back. Sign up for the fast at both dining halls from Sept. 7 to 8 be­tween 5 and 7 p.m. Email whc@nd.edu with any questions. 
Sparknotes: 
-Eat 13 dining hall meals per week instead of 14. 
-Help feed the poor and hungry of our world. 
Peace, 
Spencer Bruce 
junior off campus 
Kristen Kelly 
junior McGlinn Hall 
Rebecca Kibler 
junior Pasquerilla East Hall Aug. 29 
The real Perry 
I was so glad to see the opinion column about Rick Perry. As a resident of Texas, let me tell you what Rick Perry doesn’t want you to know: Rick Perry’s claim on Texas jobs is not true. Texas jobs, mostly in Houston, have largely come from the oil and gas industry. Perry has had nothing to do with that — Houston’s economy has historically been boom or bust, depending on oil and gas. Additionally, the state and federal government is responsible for creating a large portion of jobs. How interesting that Perry claims these jobs as his “miracle” while bashing government.
 Also, you should know he tried to mandate the HPV vac­cine for all 12-year-old girls. Is that supposed to be less gov­ernment in our lives? Even the legislature shot down that one. It all made sense when Texans learned that one of Perry’s top aides used to work for Big Pharma.
 His claim to less government in our lives is even more ridiculous when you look at the number of toll roads in Texas. Perry can’t get enough of them. He was willing to sell Texas land to a foreign country in order to build a ‘Trans Texas’ toll road. Thank goodness, the legislature stopped him on that one, too.
 Furthermore, his association with evangelical pastors, sev­eral of whom are extremists (Rev. Hagee called the Catholic church a ‘whore of Babylon’), is offensive. All you have to do is look to the Middle East for the result of that kind of behavior. Do we really want a candidate who aligns himself with such divisive radicals? Hence, there is talk in my local parish about forming a group, “CATHOLICS AGAINST RICK PERRY.”
 His record on education is dismal: Texas SAT scores rank 49th nationally in verbal skills and 45th in math.
 Perry doesn’t care about Texans who are out of work, and we have more than eight percent. He took TARP money, but turned down the federal unemployment money, then bor­rowed it from his buddies at Frost bank, costing the state more in interest charges. Talk about cutting off your nose to spite your face — this man is as sneaky as he is deceptive. We certainly don’t need his brand of government for the rest of America. 
Susan Knapp 
parent of 2007 grad Aug. 30 


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


NASCAR 

Kentucky Speedway to address traffic problems 
Associated Press 
SPARTA, Ky. — A Kentucky racetrack is turning some farm­land into parking to avoid a re­peat of the gridlock that marred an inaugural Sprint Cup Series event and shifted attention from the roaring racecars to the idling cars as irate fans missed the race. 
Officials at Speedway Motors-ports Inc., which owns and oper­ates the track, said Tuesday they have acquired a 143-acre tract that will boost available parking by 35 percent to accommodate huge crowds that surpassed 100,000 for last month’s long-awaited Sprint Cup race. 
Work was under way during the track’s announcement, as a weathered barn was leveled on the property and earth-moving equipment chugged to begin converting the farmland into a parking lot. 
“We didn’t do things as well as we had hoped on race day,” said Kentucky Speedway Gener­al Manager Mark Simendinger. “But now you can see the com­mitment that we have to make sure that this never happens again 
The state will assist with an estimated $3.6 million in road improvements aimed at improv­ing traffic flow. 
The projects include widen­ing a southbound ramp shoulder off nearby Interstate 71 to allow three lanes of traffic to exit onto a state highway that winds past the speedway. The state also will widen more than a half-mile of that state highway to five lanes and will construct a pedestrian tunnel beneath the highway. 
Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear predicted the improvements “will take care of a big part of the logjam.” 
Beshear, who is in the midst of a re-election campaign, has boasted of Kentucky landing the coveted Sprint Cup race on his watch. The race attracted more than 107,000 visitors and state officials have estimated an eco­nomic impact of up to $150 mil­lion. 
“We will speed up and help solve the challenge of getting fans into the speedway and make the races in 2012 and be­yond a much smoother experi­ence,” Beshear said in joining track officials at the announce­ment. 
The investments by the track and state drew an all-important nod of approval from a top NAS­CAR official. 
“We believe improvements like these are necessary in or­der to ensure that our fans have the opportunity for an enjoy­able race experience,” NASCAR President Mike Helton said in a statement. “We appreciate these efforts and will continue to mon­itor the progress that is being made.” 
Kerry Tharp, a NASCAR spokesman who attended the announcement, said afterward that NASCAR “made it very clear” to Kentucky Speedway officials that the traffic woes needed to be resolved. He said the announcement, coming about seven weeks after the race, “bodes well for the future here, for future events in NAS­CAR racing.” 
“What has to happen now is a successful execution of all of these plans,” Tharp said in an interview. “And we have confi­dence that that’s going to hap­pen.” 
The Kentucky track gets an­other shot this season in October when it holds Truck Series and IndyCar races. 
The track has hired a profes­sional parking service with ex­perience managing parking at prominent motorsports venues. The track also plans to hire a traffic engineering service to help design traffic management plans 
In all, the track said it expects to spend about $7.5 million to expand parking, improve exist­ing lots and improve traffic ser­vices. Simendinger said the ex­tra parking will be ready before next year’s big race. 
“We have been completely fo­cused on making sure that that traffic issue does not happen again,” Simendinger said. 
Kentucky Speedway had held Truck Series and Nationwide Series races in the past without massive congestion on I-71. The state spent millions of dollars over the last decade to improve the infrastructure around the venue in hopes of one day get­ting a Cup date. 
But the specter of brake lights stretching for miles spoiled the track’s coming out party as host of the Sprint Cup event. Vehicles were stuck in gridlock for hours on I-71, then inched along over­stuffed access roads. 
Many fans said that once they got to the gate, they were turned away because the track had run out of parking. 
NFL 

Gore and 49ers reach agreement on contract extension 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. — Frank Gore has his new deal from the San Francisco 49ers, 13 days before the season opener. Just as he wished it. 
Agent Jason Rosenhaus told The Associated Press on Tues­day that Gore had agreed to terms on a new three-year contract extension that keeps him with the team through 2014. 
Gore is set to make $21 mil­lion, with $13.5 million in guaranteed money. 
The team hadn’t made a formal announcement. That likely will come Wednesday ahead of the Niners’ exhibi­tion finale Thursday night at San Diego. 
Gore said earlier Tuesday that his primary agent, Drew Rosenhaus, had a productive, all-day meeting with team brass Monday. Gore said he instructed Rosenhaus to con­tact him when there was what he considered a “fair” offer on the table. 
“Positive that they met face to face,” Gore said. “Drew felt good about everything, (about) the talk.” 
The 28-year-old Gore, third on San Francisco’s career rushing list heading into his seventh NFL season, had re­peatedly said he wanted a new long-term deal before the Sept. 11 season opener against Seattle. 
Both sides had been throw­ing around plenty of praise for the other party. 49ers team President Jed York and gen­eral manager Trent Baalke said they wanted Gore to be a “49er for life.” 
Gore said he even spoke to Baalke about working for the organization when he’s done playing. 
“I told Drew, man, just call me when he feels right, when he feels what’s fair for both sides,” Gore said. “Hopefully I can be a Niner. I want to be here for my whole career. Our GM said he wanted me here for my whole career. Hopeful­ly my side, their side can get it done.” 
They did. 
New coach Jim Harbaugh wouldn’t address Gore’s un­settled contract situation dur­ing his afternoon media avail­ability. 
“Frank is a true 49er. I’ve said that from when I first got here,” Harbaugh said. “That’s how I thought I would feel about Frank Gore. Now, I know how I feel about Frank Gore. The guy is awesome. Somebody should do a mov­ie. Somebody should do the Frank Gore story, because it’s an awesome story.” 
Gore didn’t play in last Sat­urday’s 30-7 loss to the Hous­ton Texans, and Harbaugh wouldn’t say whether he would play in Thursday night’s exhi­bition finale at San Diego. It’s nothing new for him to sit, as Gore has rarely played during the preseason in the past. 
Gore, who missed the final five games last season with a broken right hip, held out for the first four days of training camp, but has been his ener­getic, focused self on the field ever since. 
There have been no signs of his 2010 injury, either. Gore hurt the hip in a Monday night game at Arizona on Nov. 29. 
“I haven’t noticed any lack of focus,” quarterback Alex Smith said. “He’s all in. He’s here. He’s been a part of ev­erything. Jumped in full go, so I’m not really thinking or paying attention to any of that other stuff.” 
Gore sought a contract com­parable to the $43 million, five-year deal running back DeAngelo Williams — 20 days older than San Francisco’s star — recently received from the Carolina Panthers. That includes $21 million guaran­teed. Williams missed the fi­nal 10 games last year with a sprained right foot. 
Gore needs 931 yards to be­come the franchise’s all-time leading rusher. While that is a goal, he also wants to have a big year to help turn the 49ers around after eight straight seasons without a playoff berth or winning record. 
He ran for 853 yards and three touchdowns last year before getting hurt in his sixth NFL season. Gore also caught 46 passes for 452 yards and two TDs. His 24 100-yard rushing games are the most in 49ers history. 


FOR RENT  YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO LIVE HERE!  TICKETS  PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone.  
B&amp;B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents. 10 min from campus. 574-272-5640 3BR 2BA or entire house for rent or ND football. 2 miles from campus. $350 per bedroom or $1000 for entire house. Fri 5:00 pm through Sun 2:00 pm. Responsible parties call 574-286-0321  Beautifully Renovated 4-5bed/2bath Home Walk to Campus! Off of Eddy St. Priced to Rent Quickly! Call Mike 615-419-2892  BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY GAMES GAs only. Call 574-277-1659  Looking to start bible study group. 10 lesson premillennial dispensational viewpoint covering entire bible in 1 hour sessions. Call Tom 574-876-8928  Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s webste at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  

The 49ers rewarded two other key players with long­term contracts last year. 
Tight end Vernon Davis signed a five-year extension worth $37 million overall, in­cluding $34 million guaran­teed, a night before the 2010 season opener. That made him the highest-paid tight end in NFL history. 
“FREE NUGGET” 
“We out.” -Jersey 
“I cannot answer you that.” 
“WInning” 
“You gotta ditch the goggles.” 
-unknown 

U.S. OPEN 

Djokovic, Wozniacki bring superior games 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Didn’t take too long to see that Novak Djokov­ic’s right shoulder is feeling fine. 
Which was good, because he was on court for less than an hour Tuesday. 
He began his first-round match at the U.S. Open with a 121 mph service winner. Four points later, he closed that game with a 120 mph ace. He whipped forehands exactly where he wanted them. He re­turned well, too. 
Playing his first match since Aug. 21, when he quit because of a sore and tired shoulder, the top-seed­ed Djokovic began set­ting aside round match Tuesday night — atop the rankings. Djokovic is on his way to compiling one of the greatest seasons in tennis history, particularly if he can earn his first championship at the U.S. Open, where in the past four years he’s lost twice in the final and twice in the semifinals. 
“This year has been tremen­dous — best so far in my ca­reer — and there has been a lot of talk about history-mak­ing and this incredible run,” Djokovic said. 
His showing Tuesday was the most noteworthy development in the men’s draw during an afternoon session that includ­ed a second consecutive first-round departure 


any ques-from the U.S. 
“Today I didn’t feel any 
tions about Open by the 
pain. I served well, 
his fitness sixth-seeded 
and I played well, so 
for Flushing French Open 
I have no concern.” 
Meadows, champi on building a Li Na. Since 6-0, 5-1 lead Novak Djokovic becoming 
before quali-Men’s U.S. Open participant China’s first 
fier  Conor  
Niland of Ire­ 
land  stopped  
after 44 min­ 
utes.  Niland  
had food poisoning.  
“Great  opening  perfor­ 
mance,”  Djokovic  declared.  

“Today I didn’t feel any pain. I served well, and I played well, so I have no concern.” 
He improved to 58-2 with nine titles in 2011, including at Wimbledon and the Australian Open, allowing the 24-year-old Serb to overtake Rafael Nad­al — the defending U.S. Open champion who played his first-major singles 
champion at 
Paris in June, 
Li has gone 
5-6, exiting in the second round at Wim­bledon, then losing 6-2, 7-5 to 53rd-ranked Simona Halep of Romania on Tuesday. 
“Terrible feeling,” Li said. “I really want to do well after Ro­land Garros. But, I mean, it’s not easy to do. Always easy to say, ‘I want to do, I would like to do,’ but always lose early. Now I even lose all the confi­dence on the court. I was feel­ing, ‘Oh, tennis just too tough for me.’” 
It’s the first time in 40 years that none of the women’s champions at a season’s first three Grand Slam tournaments reached the second round at the U.S. Open. Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova lost her first-round match Monday, while Australian Open cham­pion Kim Clijsters withdrew because of a stomach muscle injury. 
The active leader for wom­en’s Grand Slam titles, Serena Williams, was to follow Nadal in Arthur Ashe Stadium on Tuesday night. 
Earlier, top-seeded Caro­line Wozniacki — who’s been ranked No. 1 for most of the past year but is still in search of Grand Slam trophy No. 1 — defeated 125th-ranked Nuria Llagostera Vives of Spain 6-3, 6-1. 
Afterward, Wozniacki was asked about criticisms that she lacks a big-time shot. 
“They can say what they want,” said Wozniacki, who is dating U.S. Open golf cham­pion Rory Mc-Ilroy. “I’m the type of player I am.” 
eliminated 6-7 (6), 6-3, 6-0, 2-6, 6-2 by Nikolay Davydenko of Russia, who was a U.S. Open semifinalist in 2006 and 2007 and once was ranked No. 3 but now is 39th. 
Winners included No. 5 Da­vid Ferrer, No. 11 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, No. 17 Jurgen Melzer and Americans James Blake and Donald Young. 
Tsonga’s next opponent is Sergei Bubka, the son of the pole-vault world record-holder of the same name, who is a qualifier ranked 207th and won his first Grand Slam match Tuesday. 
Bubka and Djokovic are the same age and both live in Mon­te Carlo, so they have practiced together on occasion. Djokov­ic didn’t do much in the way of hitting tennis balls in 


Among the past major winners who a d v a n c e d  “They can say what they want. I’m the type of player I am.”  the time since he decided he couldn’t con­tinue while  
Tuesday were 2010 French  Caroline Wozniacki  trailing in the second set of  
Open pion esca  cham-Franc-Schia­ Women’s U.S. Open participant  the Cincinnati Masters final against Andy  
vone,  who  Murray.  
overcame  16  “Th rough- 
double-faults,  out the whole  
including four  week  I  was  

in her last service game; 2008 carrying the pain and discom-French Open champion Ana fort in my shoulder,” Djokovic Ivanovic, whose blood pres-said. “After Cincinnati, I took sure was checked by a trainer some time off. I did everything at the final changeover and to recover the shoulder.” said afterward she felt over-Against Niland, Djokovic whelmed while thinking about won the first seven games. Af­the recent death of her grand-ter Niland finally got on the father; and two-time Grand scoreboard, Djokovic took the Slam champion Svetlana last 16 points they played. Kuznetsova. As well as Djokovic played, 
Other winners included No. the 197th-ranked Niland — 4 Victoria Azarenka, No. 10 no man representing Ireland Andrea Petkovic, No. 11 Jele-played at the U.S. Open in the na Jankovic and three young Open era until this year — Americans: Sloane Stephens, wasn’t able to provide much CoCo Vandeweghe and Vania resistance after whatever King. caused him problems at dinner 
Two seeded men lost during Sunday night. the day: No. 16 Mikhail You-“We’re thinking it was either zhny was beaten by Ernests salad or a pork dish,” Niland Gulbis of Latvia 6-2, 6-4, 6-4, said. “We’re not giving away and No. 32 Ivan Dodig was the name of the restaurant.” 

NFL 

Recharged, Vick promises strong showing 
Associated Press back Player of the Year in 2010 
after winning eight of 11 starts, 

PHILADELPHIA — Michael throwing a career-high 21 Vick shared some laughs, and touchdown passes and rush-offered up an occasional smile. ing for nine more. But despite But for the most part, his Tues-engineering a memorable 38­day press conference announc-31 comeback win over the New ing his new contract was han-York Giants that ultimately led dled the same way he’s handled to the NFC East title in Decem­everything since he landed in ber, Vick and the Eagles were Philadelphia two years ago. dumped at home a month later 
All business. in the playoffs by the Green Bay 
“The common goal is to bring Packers, 21-16, in the wild-card that ring back to the city of round. Philadelphia. That’s why we But this year, knowing he’ll play,” Vick said. “That’s what open the season as the starter, we’re all working for. As a com-and knowing he has perhaps petitor, I don’t feel my career the most name-heavy roster in will be complete without that.” the league on his side, it ap-
And so begins the next phase pears like it’s Super Bowl or in one of the league’s more re-bust. markable comeback stories. Which is why coach Andy With the business of his new, Reid and Co. are more than six-year, $100 million contract happy to see the quarterback out of the way, it’s time for Vick happy. and the rest of the star-laden “This is a great story all Eagles to shoot for that elusive the way through,” Reid said. Super Bowl title. “This is really what America’s 
The Eagles won the 1960 NFL all about. Second chance and championship, but have been to Mike took full advantage of 
just two Super  that. And then  
Bowls  since,  when he  was  
losing both.  given  a  sec- 
Not that there’s any pressure or anything. “It’s a lot of  “The common goal is to bring that ring back to the city of Philadelphia. That’s why we play.”  ond chance to start in the National Foot­ball League, he took full  
money, how ever you look  MIchael Vick  a d v a n t a g e of that and  
at it,” said. Vick  “Obvi- Eagles quarterback  turned it into this.”  
ously, it’s go- And  the  
ing  to  cre­ next  stop  —  
ate  a  lot  of  after a detour  

demands. I know what comes vs. the New York Jets in the pre­along with it, and I know how season finale on Thursday — to handle it.” will be a week from Sunday in 
Vick, 31, became the Eagles’ St. Louis, where Vick will make backup quarterback when they his first opening-day start in traded Donovan McNabb to the five years vs. the Rams. Washington Redskins after the “(I) go back in time and think 2009 season, and he became about how hard it’s been over the starter last September af-the last two years,” he said. ter replacing an injured Kevin “But (despite) the sacrifices I Kolb. had to make and what I had to 
He was named NFL Come-give up, it’s been all worth it.” 
But, in the end, will he be worth the money? The Eagles retained his rights by signing him to a one-year, $16 million franchise tag in the offseason, but his new contract now runs through 2016. It’s a bold state­ment for a franchise that has had its share of big-name quar­terbacks in the past, only to walk away empty handed. 
It’s clear, though, they see something different this time around. 
Eagles president Joe Banner concurs. 
“When you give a player a contract, you’re betting on the future, and you’re using the evidence of what he’s done to that point to evaluate your fu­ture projection,” he said. “And if we didn’t think Michael was somebody capable of leading this team to a Super Bowl, we never would have given him that contract. 
“Now, our judgment has to be right, and he has to get on the field and prove that. But we wouldn’t be making this type of investment if we didn’t view him that way.” 


Vick’s deal makes him the third-highest-paid player in the NFL, behind only New Eng­land Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning. And the former No. 1 overall pick who served 19 months in a federal penitentiary at Leaven­worth, Kan., on felony dogfight­ing charges before joining the Eagles, is now the first player in NFL history to sign more than one $100 million contract in his career. 
On Dec. 23, 2004, with the Falcons on their way to the NFC Championship game, where they lost to the Eagles, Vick signed a 10-year deal worth $130 million. But he played only 32 games under that deal before legal problems derailed his career. 
“I’ve learned ... don’t take any­thing for granted,” Vick said. “I did that at one point when I had the big contract in Atlanta. And I think that will definitely help me now in understanding what’s most important and how to move forward in my life.” 
Whether that life includes a Super Bowl title remains to be seen. But one thing’s for sure. As much talent as this roster has, and as much hype as it’s caused, the Eagles will be pre­pared for anything, win, lose, or draw. 
“You don’t give out contracts this size and have no fear. There are too many things in life,” Banner said. “You can have a car accident. There is always fear when you have contracts of this magnitude because the im­pact of being wrong is so huge. 
“But as far as Michael being who he is today, we’re very con­fident. He is what he is 24 hours a day when we’re with him, and we’re confident in the person he is now.” 
MLB 

Santiago’s homer gives Tigers 2-1 win over Royals 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Ramon Santiago hit a solo homer in the bottom of the 10th inning to give the De­troit Tigers a 2-1 win over the Kansas City Royals on Tuesday night. 
Santiago, who entered the game in the eighth as a pinch-runner, lifted Aaron Crow’s pitch over the right-field wall for only his fourth homer of the year. Joaquin Benoit (4-3) pitched two innings for the Ti­gers, matching his longest out­ing of the season. 
Crow (3-4) struck out Wilson Betemit with the bases loaded to end the ninth, and he got the first out of the 10th before allowing Santiago’s surprising homer. 
Detroit starter Doug Fister retired the first 18 hitters he faced. He ended up allowing a run and four hits over 7 2-3 in­nings. He struck out six. 
Fister was traded from Seat­tle to Detroit on July 30 as the Tigers tried to bolster their ro­tation for the stretch run. He re­ceived only 2.63 runs of support per nine innings with the Mari­ners, and he must have felt as though he was back with them Tuesday when he took a perfect game into the seventh but end­ed up with a no-decision. 
Alex Gordon ended Fister’s bid with a leadoff double in the seventh. After Gordon moved to third on a sacrifice, Billy Butler drove him in with a sac fly to give the Royals a 1-0 lead. 
The Tigers tied it in the eighth on Magglio Ordonez’s two-out RBI single off reliever Greg Hol­land. 
Kansas City starter Jeff Fran­cis allowed two hits in 6 1-3 in­nings before being pulled with two on in the seventh. Holland retired Victor Martinez and Alex Avila to end the threat. 
Holland has allowed only one of his 29 inherited runners to score this season, but he stayed in the game for the eighth in­ning and the Tigers managed to tie it. With men on first and third and two outs, Ordonez singled up the middle to make it 1-1. 
The Royals had missed a chance to pad their lead in the top of the eighth when they put men on second and third with one out. Shortstop Jhonny Per­alta fielded Alcides Escobar’s grounder and threw home to catch Mike Moustakas trying to score. Phil Coke then relieved Fister and struck out Gordon. 
Detroit nearly won it in the ninth when Louis Coleman al­lowed three straight two-out walks, but Crow came in and got out of the jam. 
Notes: In his last three starts, Fister has allowed two runs in 21 2-3 innings. ... Martinez’s hard grounder in the ninth handcuffed first baseman Eric Hosmer, but the ball bounced off him and over to second baseman Chris Getz, who threw back to Hosmer covering first for an odd 3-4-3 groundout. ... It was Benoit’s third outing of more than an inning this sea­son. ... The Tigers and Royals will finish their four-game se­ries with day games Wednesday and Thursday. Rick Porcello takes the mound for Detroit on Wednesday against Felipe Pau­lino. The Tigers are 9-5 against Kansas City this season. 


MLB 

Rookies lead Astros to an easy victory over Pirates 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Don’t feel too sorry for the young Astros. A slew of rookies is helping Hous­ton’s future seem a bit brighter. 
Rookie Henry Sosa allowed two hits and struck out seven over six innings, Matt Downs got his league-leading 12th pinch-hit RBI and the Astros rallied for an 8-2 win over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Tuesday night. 
Sosa was one of six rookies in the starting lineup that helped push the Astros to their sixth victory in seven home games. 
Sosa got his second straight major league victory. J.D. Mar­tinez drove in three runs, giv­ing him 28 for the month — the most for an Astros rookie in any calendar year and third all-time for NL rookies in August. Jose Altuve hit his second major league homer and drove in two runs. 
What they started in the mi­nor leagues, they are continu­ing at the major league level. 
“It’s no doubt when a guy comes up, especially from Dou­ble-A, he has some guys he’s familiar with,” Astros manager Brad Mills said. “J.D. was with us for a while in spring train­ing. 
“At the same time, he spent the first four or five months with those guys. When he came up here it’s good to have some­one you know. All that breeds unity.” 
Altuve homered in the fifth against Charlie Morton (9-8) to tie it 2-2 and the Astros broke loose with six runs in the sixth on seven hits — a season best for an inning. 
Downs pinch hit for Sosa and singled to left for the go-ahead run. Altuve added an RBI sin­gle, Martinez drove in two runs with a single, and Carlos Lee and Jimmy Paredes also had run-scoring hits in the inning. 
“We are pushing each other all the time trying to make each other better,” Martinez said. 
“We are confident. “We have that confidence that we can tell each other, ‘What are you do­ing. Let’s go.’ We’ve played with each other so long. We want nothing but the best for each other. It’s nice to have.” 
Sosa walked Ronny Cedeno to start the third inning. Cedeno was sacrificed to second and scored on Alex Presley’s long single to center. 
Martinez also had an RBI hit in the seventh. He went 3 for 5 to lead Houston’s 13-hit attack. 


U.S. OPEN 

Wozniacki’s new coach remains a mystery 
Associated Press started dating this summer? name names, Wozniacki is 
“You know, he has some-clearly looking for another gear 
NEW YORK — It’s funny what thing I’m looking for and I have and a few more weapons as she questions some people will and something he’s looking for,” she tries to add to a resume that in­won’t answer. said. “He wants to be No. 1. So cludes 46 of the last 47 weeks 
Take the world’s top-ranked it’s good to have something on at No. 1 but no major champi­tennis player, Caroline Wozni-each other.” onships and only one trip to a acki. Does the No. 1 ranking, when Grand Slam final. viewed as a 
Her boyfriend? Sure, she’s it’s not accompanied by a ma-rough summer, losing her first been seeing Rory McIlory of jor title, feel like a burden or an match at both Toronto and Cin­late. honor? cinnati — considered key lead-
Her new coach? Well, that, “I’m trying to stay up there as ups to the year’s last Grand Wozniacki insists, must remain long as possible, and it doesn’t Slam. But last week, she won a mystery. really matter what people are for the fourth straight year at 
Wozniacki opened her latest saying,” she said. “No one can New Haven, and suddenly, the quest for her ever take that critics seem more like alarm-first Grand “I’m trying to stay up away from ists. 
Slam title me.” “I know that I’m back on 
there as long as possible, 
with a 6-3, 6-1 And why track,” she said. “I know that 
and it doesn’t really 
victory over not end the everyone has to write their sto­
matter what people are 
Nuria Llagos-su sp e n s e ries. I think we should move on. 
saying. No one can ever 
tera Vives of and tell us Ask me about something else, Spain on Tues-take that away from me.” who that something more interesting.” day. It was a new coach of There wasn’t much interest-drama -free Caroline Wozniacki yours is? ing about this match, except — steady groundstrokes and can be. afternoon in “ Y e a h , maybe for the observation that long points, made longer on a Wozniacki isn’t listening. 
Women’s U.S. Open 
Arthur Ashe well, I have to Wozniacki didn’t need to bring surface that players say has “They can say what they 
participant 
Stadium that respect him, out any new weapons to defeat been playing slower this year. want,” she said. “I’m the type left the most as well,” she Llagostera Vives, the diminu-A number of the ex-players of player I am. I’ve won a lot interesting stuff for the post-said. “So if he wants to be in tive counterpuncher ranked who now work as analysts on of tournaments. I’m No. 1 in match interview. the background and not have 125th and playing her first sin-TV say Wozniacki’s kind of the world, and of course I can 
How were things going with his name out, I have to respect gles match on the U.S. Open game isn’t suited to winning still improve. There are a lot McIlroy, golf’s reigning U.S. that.” main show court. Grand Slams, especially not the of things to my game I can still Open champion whom she Though she’s refusing to This was typical Wozniacki kind of grind that the U.S. Open improve, but everyone can.” 

MLB 

White Sox bullpen dominates over Twins offense 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Alejandro De Aza helped the Chicago White Sox survive a stormy few in­nings. The bullpen took care of the rest. 
De Aza drove in a career-high four runs to lead the White Sox to their fifth straight win, 8-6 over the Minnesota Twins on Tuesday night. 
Chicago overcame a pair of three-run deficits in the mid­dle innings, going ahead with a five-run fifth before holding on with the help of 4 1-3 shut­out innings by the bullpen. 
De Aza’s three-run homer in the fourth tied it 3-all. He also walked and scored two runs. Paul Konerko doubled, scored twice and had an RBI during Chicago’s decisive five-run rally. 
“Yeah it feels great because anyway I can try to help the team, it’s going to feel good,” De Aza said. 
Will Ohman (1-3) got the win and Sergio Santos struck out the side in the ninth for his 28th save. 
“I think the bullpen is one of the strongest things we’ve got all year long, the most con­sistent,” White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. “That’s a big part of American League baseball.” 
The comebacks got starter Zach Stewart off the hook after he allowed six runs and seven hits in 4 2-3 innings. 
“I wasn’t really happy with (the outing),” Stewart said. “I just didn’t feel like I pitched very good. We did a great job of battling back.” 
Jason Kubel hit a three-run homer for Minnesota, which fell 23 games below .500 for the first time since the end of the 200 season. The Twins are 6-21 this month, ensuring the worst August in franchise his­tory. 
Twins starter Anthony Swar­zak (3-5) allowed eight runs 
— six earned — over 4 1-3 in­nings. 
“They got guys on and got them in, and that’s what it’s all about,” Swarzak said. 
The White Sox remained five games behind first-place De­troit in the AL Central. The Ti­gers beat Kansas City 2-1 in 10 innings earlier Tuesday. 
The game came to life in the fourth with three straight three-run frames and Chica­go’s wild five-run fifth — which erased a 6-3 deficit. 
The White Sox sent 10 bat­ters to the plate in the inning and were helped by an error and two hit batsmen. Michael Cuddyer threw the ball away on what might have been an inning-ending double play, opening the floodgates for Chi­cago. 
“You finally score some runs, but as you see, defensively we didn’t make enough plays again and you give it back to them,” Minnesota manager Ron Gardenhire said. “Those are the frustrating things.” 
Konerko had an RBI double. Two runs scored on Cuddyer’s miscue to tie the game 6-all. The go-ahead run scored when reliever Alex Burnett hit Gor­don Beckham on the helmet with the bases loaded. 
Kubel launched a drive into the back of the Twins’ bullpen in right field, putting Minneso­ta ahead 3-0 in the fourth. 
Chicago came right back with De Aza’s three-run shot into the same bullpen. 
“When (De Aza) hit the home run, I knew (we) were going to get some energy in the dug­out, right away,” Guillen said. “Seems like he’s been doing everything the team needs him to do.” 
Stewart couldn’t take advan­tage of the second chance, giv­ing up three runs and exiting in the fifth. Joe Mauer laced a two-run double and scored on Cuddyer’s single. 
After 14 runs were scored in two innings, Chicago’s bullpen quieted the game down. Ohm-an got the last out of the fifth, Jason Frasor threw a scoreless sixth and Chris Sale struck out four over two scoreless frames, setting up Santos. 
“Everyone of the guys in our bullpen I think can be a closer and throw the ninth,” Santos said. “We feel like that’s our strong point. ... We’re kind of going on all cylinders right now.” 

MLB 

Marlins’ Dobbs visits injured fan in hospital 
Associated Press  tests and everything. He’s run  It’s just natural. You see a kid  was kept overnight.  viously the doctors are giving  
down, he’s hurting, but he’s on  with a pool of blood in his lap  According to Dobbs, the boy  them a very positive progno- 
NEW YORK — Before head- the mend, thank God. Thank  holding up a towel to his face  said he never saw the ball com- sis.”  
ing  to  the  ballpark Tuesday,  God it wasn’t any worse.”  as he’s being carted off, it’s not  ing at him because another  One of the reasons Dobbs  
Greg Dobbs stopped at the hos- Shalomoff  was  released  a good sight,” he said.  fan jumped up in front of him  was so shaken up is that he  
pital.  about 8 p.m. on Tuesday night,  The boy was hurt in the  trying to catch it, blocking his  has two children of his own,  
The Marlins third baseman  according  to  ninth  inning  view.  a 4-year-old girl and a 1-year­ 
wanted to visit 12-year-old Eli  Atiya  But- when  Dobbs  “He said it was just like a  old boy.  
Shalomoff, who was hit in the  ler,  assistant  hooked a line  flash, just boom. He had no  “That’s one of the things I  
face by a line drive Monday during a game between Florida and the New York Mets. Dobbs said he went to Elm- director of public affairs at Elmhurst Hospital.  “He said it was just like a flash, just boom. He had no idea.”  drive into the r i g h t -f iel d seats, just be­yond a photo  idea,” Dobbs said. The infielder said he has a couple of ideas for a care pack­age that he wants to send to  told her,” Dobbs said, referring to the boy’s mother. “As a par­ent, I completely understand. I completely empathize. It’s a  
hurst Hospital and spent a lit­tle more than an hour with the boy and his family. He said the  In addition to the concus­sion, Dobbs  Greg Dobbs Marlins infielder  well next to the New York dugout. Sta- the boy, who is more of a Yan­kees fan than a Mets backer, Dobbs said.  parent’s worst nightmare.” Dobbs spoke with the boy’s mother after the doubleheader  
boy was doing OK after he was  said the boy  dium  medi­ “He loves soccer, he wants  Monday and again early Tues- 
struck square in the face by  has a broken  cal  workers  to try out for hockey. I asked  day for an update and to make  
Dobbs’ foul liner in the open- nose  and  a  immediately  his favorite players. We shared  sure it would be OK to visit.  
ing game of a doubleheader at  fractured sinus. But he said  tended to the boy, who was  photos of his family, my fam­ “I’m not just a guy in a uni- 
Citi Field.  doctors do not anticipate any  bleeding heavily. Accompanied  ily and stuff. He’s a really neat  form playing a game. We’re all  
“He’s in as good spirits as  permanent damage, which was  by his mother, he was carted  little kid,” Dobbs added. “It  human. When an unfortunate  
he can be,” Dobbs said. “He’s  a big sigh of relief for Dobbs.  away in a wheelchair after the  was fun. It was good. The mom  thing happens like that and  
tired,  obviously.  He’s  deal­ “Absolutely. You think of the  game and taken in an ambu­ and dad were very upbeat, they  you impact someone’s life, you  
ing with a concussion, all the  worst, but you pray for the best.  lance to the hospital, where he  were very positive because ob- should show you care.”  

MLB 

Sabathia guides Yankees to victory over Red Sox 
Associated Press improved to 3-13 this season 0-4 with a 7.20 ERA against a swinging Jarrod Saltalamac-Scutaro, New York added Cer­against the Red Sox, who still the Red Sox this year, and 17-3 chia with a pitch — the fourth velli’s solo homer in the fifth BOSTON — CC Sabathia fi-lead the AL East by one-half with a 2.40 ERA against the hit batter of the game. “It’s not and Derek Jeter’s run-scoring nally snapped out of his Red game. rest of baseball. He allowed like me to blow my top, but it’s double play in the seventh that 
Sox funk, and it took an extra “It’s always a big game when two runs on 10 hits and two an important game. This is a made it 5-2. 
effort to do it. you’re playing the team you’re walks; only once in his career huge game, a huge series.” The Red Sox had 13 hits The big Yankees left-hand-chasing,” Sabathia said, con-has he thrown more than 128 Mariano Rivera finished the in all, but Saltalamacchia 
er struck out 10 on Tuesday ceding to reporters that he had pitches. ninth for his 35th save. stranded seven and Adrian 
night, throwing a season-high grown tired of the reminders “He got big outs when he John Lackey (12-10) allowed Gonzalez stranded five; each 
128 pitches in six innings to of his struggles against Bos-had to, and that’s CC,” said five runs — four earned — on struck out three times. It was 
beat Boston for the first time ton. “Of course, when you guys Yankees manager Joe Girardi, seven hits and four walks, also a rough day at the plate 
in five tries and lead New York won’t stop talking about it.” who was ejected with one out striking out three. Nick Swish-for Jorge Posada, who left five 
to a 5-2 victory. The Yankees Sabathia (18-7) had been to go after Mariano Rivera hit er had three hits, and Fran-men on and grounded into a cisco Cervelli hit a solo homer pair of double plays, and Jeter, in the fifth, clapping as he who returned after missing crossed the plate. That may two games with a bruised have been why, when he came kneecap, grounded out five up again in the seventh, Lack-times. ey hit him in the back, spark-Notes: Game 2 of the series ing a bench-clearing stare-will match Phil Hughes and down. Josh Beckett. Beckett is 3-0 vs. “I totally the Yankees understand this season how it could in four starts. look that Hughes is way. Guy hit coming off a
“It’s always a big game 
a home run. rocky start 
when you’re playing the 
Next at-bat, against Oak-
team you’re chasing.” 
first pitch, land, when you hit him,” he allowed Saltalamac-CC Sabathia six earned chia said. Yankees pitcher runs in 2 2-3 “We had no innings of a intent on hit-22-9 Yankees ting him. victory. ... It just hap-Keegan Brad­pened that way.” ley, a Vermont native who won 
After getting hit, Cervelli the PGA Championship this moved toward the mound as month, threw out the ceremo­the dugouts slowly emptied nial first pitch and gave a big and home plate umpire Ed fist pump afterward. ... Red Rapuano tried to maintain or-Sox knuckleballer Tim Wake­der. There was nothing more field won’t pitch in the up-than jawing back and forth, coming series against Texas. and in the end Yankees pitch-Instead he’ll make his start ing coach Larry Rothschild against Toronto. Andrew Mill-was ejected. er, Erik Bedard and Lackey 
In the first inning, Curtis will face the Rangers. ... Man-Granderson took one off the ager Terry Francona said RHP end of the bat — or the hand, Clay Buchholz, on the 60-day depending on whom you be-disabled list with a stress lieve — and then Sabathia fracture on his back, threw 25 plunked Jacoby Ellsbury to times from 60 feet and did well lead off the bottom half. in the limited workout. Fran­
“It’s part of the game,” Cer-cona said Buchholz will con­
velli said. “Yankees-Boston, tinue to rehabilitate slowly. 
everybody wants to win.” “Whether this turns into him 
New York took a 1-0 lead in pitching (this season) or not, the second and made it 3-0 we don’t know, but it’s still ex-in the fourth when Robinson citing in the fact that he’s done Cano hit an RBI double and so well to this point.” ... Yan­scored on Eric Chavez’s single. kees 3B Alex Rodriguez was After Boston cut the lead to out of the lineup, one day after 3-2 on Carl Crawford’s homer receiving a cortisone injection and an RBI double by Marco for his sprained left thumb. 


For now, Frilling and Mathews have been leading 
Tefft 
practices and conditioning 

continued from page 20 workouts for the fall tourna­ments, which begin Oct.  1. Mathews said Tefft’s return to “Once we start with the 

the program should be a seam-coaches, we’re going to be get-less transition from player to ting ready for the fall tourna­coach. ments as well as improving our 
“She knows our team chemis-conditioning and getting a good try,” Mathews said. “She’s going base for our lifting that can take 
to come in and  us through the  
fit  perfectly,  entire season,”  
and it isn’t go- Mathews said.  
ing to take her any time to ad­just.”  “They see her All-American banner when  M a t h ew s said all of the girls are eager  
Tefft is eager to see first- we practice. They can’t wait to have her as  to meet their new coach.  
hand how her former team- part of the team.”  “Even girls  the who  
mates have grown in her absence.  Shannon Mathews senior co-captain  haven’t met her are excit­ed,” Mathews  
“Sh a n n o n  said. “They see  
and  Kristy  her All-Ameri­ 
have both im­ can  banner  
proved  a  lot  when we prac­ 

since their freshman year,” tice. They all can’t wait to have Tefft said. “We will look for the her as a part of the team.” same level of leadership from them this year as co-captains.” Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
McHugh 
continued from page 20 
nally thought I would stay and play in California, but Notre Dame contacted me, I visited and I loved it.” 
Part of Notre Dame’s West Coast access stems from asso­ciate head coach Robin Davis, formerly the head coach at Boi­se State and a former beach volleyball and 

AVP tour play-“I loved Coach Davis, said. “We er. McHugh and he was a big commiser ­committed to part of getting me ate over the Boise State be-winter and 
to Notre Dame.” 
fore ultimately talk about choosing Notre all the things 
Andrea McHugh 
Dame. we miss from “I loved sophomore hitter back home. 
Coach Davis, and he was a big part of getting me to Notre Dame,” McHugh said. “It also didn’t hurt that there were a bunch of California girls already on the team.” 
While a school like the Uni­versity of Texas has a football roster comprised almost ex­clusively of in-state talent, the Irish are more comparable to the Northwestern women’s la­crosse team than to the Long­horns. Winners of six of the last seven national championships, the Wildcats’ roster features 11 players from Long Island, N.Y. 
For the coaches, regardless of geography, recruiting is sim­ply a matter of going where the best athletes are. For the Cali­fornians, coming to a team that features players with similar backgrounds is a little bit of home in snowy South Bend. 
“I love having teammates 
from Cali-
for n ia,” 
McHugh 
They were 
definitely a 
huge part of what brought me here and what makes me so comfortable here.” 
Through the long winter months, the Californians now proudly call Notre Dame their home, and the Irish coaching staff is happy to have them. 
Contact Conor Kelley at ckelley17@nd.edu 
Scodro 
continued from page 20 
still have a lot to learn. 

Coming into the season, Scodro ranks as one of the top golfers in Notre Dame’s history and boasts the third best career shot average of just under 74. The senior has also been listed on the all-Big East team in each of his three years and earned the title of Big East Player of the Year last season. 
Yet something was still left unchecked on his college to-do list: the U.S. Amateur na­tional championship. 
“[The national champion­ships] are on every college golfer’s checklist,” Scodro said. “It’s just something that you have got to do. It meant a lot to me with all of the things that I have accomplished, but it was something for me to do on a personal level.” 
This year was his last chance to represent Notre Dame at the U.S. Amateur na­tional championship, one of the biggest stages for a colle­giate golfer. 
Scodro played at the British Amateur national champion­ship, where he missed the cut after the first few days of ac­tion. The international expe­rience, Scodro said, shaped his game and kept him fo­cused on the big prize. 
“The tournament had a huge field with early cuts, and I just sort of played myself out of it,” Scodro said. “But it made me more patient in my approach, and it definitely helped me to keep moving on.” 
Scodro’s shot at the U.S. Amateurs came during a two-day amateur qualifying event in Michigan, where only the top three golfers from the re­gion advanced to the national championship. But it seemed as though, once again, the righty shot himself out of the competition by carding a 75 (+5) on the first day.
 But rather than immediate­ly folding, Scodro pushed for­ward with a simple approach. 
“I definitely knew that it was going to be one shot at a time,” Scodro said. “I just needed to try to keep it going and clean up my game a little bit.” 
And that he did as the Ping All-Midwest selection rat­tled off a 67 (-3) on the same course the next day to place him in a three-way playoff for only two remaining spots. One phenomenal chip shot later sent the senior into the opening rounds of the na­tional championship, adding a check to the list. 
“It seemed like a basic chip, so I played it aggressive be­cause I knew that I could do it,” he said. 
But the result of his U.S. Amateurs appearance was a draw against the No. 1 amateur golfer in the world, UCLA’s Patrick Cantlay — a 21st place finisher at the U.S. Open, ahead of Phil Mickelson and Ernie Els among others. 
“I was pretty excited to go up against the number one [amateur golfer],” Scodro said. “It was a good opportu­nity to measure myself to a player of that caliber.” 
Though Scodro lost to Cantlay in the next round, the experience was indispens­able, especially for a veteran returning to defend a Big East title and looking to add more hardware to an already ex­tensive collection. 
“Amateurs was just an amazing learning experience for me,” he said. “Hopefully now we can repeat with a Big East championship and fight for that national title.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Kelly 
continued from page 20 
31-26 victory over Clemson in the Meineke Car Care Bowl on Dec. 31. 
“As it relates to players, you start with B.J. Daniels, the quarterback,” Kelly said. 
“When I was in the Big East we had to try to defend B.J. Daniels, and it’s a challenge to say the least. He’s extremely athletic, he can throw the foot­ball. Here’s a young man that obviously has a lot of confi­dence and momentum coming into the season.” 
In order to simulate Daniels’ dynamic style of play, Kelly said the scout team has used freshman Everett Golson and sophomore Andrew Hendrix in practice. 
“When you’re dealing with a quarterback that’s a dual-threat with the ability to run, you have to go over all those things that put the ball in his hands, whether it be option, or read-option, or sprint-out,” he said. “Everett and Andrew cer­tainly assist in that prepara­tion. Both of them have helped this week in preparing for B.J. Daniels because they’re both guys you have to defend as it relates to running the ball.” 
In the end, Kelly’s familiar­ity with South Florida may give Notre Dame the advantage in the first meeting between the two programs, particularly on the defensive side of the ball. As the former coach of the Bearcats, Kelly led then-No. 8 Cincinnati to a 34-17 victory over then-No. 21 South Florida on the road Oct. 15, 2009, limit­ing Daniels to 284 yards of of­fense and two touchdowns. 
“Purdue was a lot different for me last year because I had not played Purdue,” Kelly said. “If you’re stacking up openers, I’m a little more familiar with South Florida and coach Holtz and his style of offense and de­fense. We’re always going to be ready for that exotic play.” 
Contact Christopher Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 




DAVID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 


____________________ 
FOOTBALL 

Challenges Ahead 
Kelly discusses the challenges in facing a fresh team for upcoming season opener 
By CHRISTOPHER MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
As far as home openers are concerned, Notre Dame has en­joyed an .844 winning percent­age and has recorded a victory in nine of its last 10 contests, including a 23-12 victory over Purdue last season. 
As far as Irish coach Brian Kelly is concerned, 2011 is a new season, South Florida is a potential BCS contender and Bulls coach Skip Holtz is a for­midable opponent because of his track record not his lineage. 
“South Florida is going to be a great challenge for us,” Kelly said. “It starts with their head coach Skip Holtz. He’s done a very good job in a short pe­riod of time. What people need to understand is that he’s had great experience as a head coach. A lot of publications have picked them to be a BCS team, a big challenge for us in the opener.” 
While many have earmarked Saturday’s contest as the re­turn of former Irish coach Lou Holtz’s son to Notre Dame, where he served as a player in 1986 and an assistant coach from 1990-93, Kelly main­tained that his players have re­mained focused on the task at hand earning the first win of the season. 
“We were locked in pretty good [Monday]. I think we’ve taken breaks at the right time for our team not to be stale mentally, and I think those breaks have allowed us to have a lot of energy in our practices,” Kelly said. “We know that it can be a grind, but once it’s game week, it changes everything.” 
The task will be made es­pecially difficult by the excep­tional talent of Bulls quarter­back B.J. Daniels. Entering his junior season, Daniels has amassed 4,576 yards of total offense and 36 touchdowns in his first two full seasons, which was capped by an MVP-performance in South Florida’s 
see KELLY/page 18 


WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Former Irish All-American rejoins team as assistant coach 
By KATIE HEIT ing to Notre Dame as a coach,” Shannon Mathews and Kristy used to having her as a team-Back in South Bend, Tefft is Sports Writer Tefft said. “Notre Dame has one Frilling were freshmen when mate, friend, and partner,” excited to make the transition of the best athletic departments Tefft was a senior. Frilling said. “I know I’m going from her familiar role of player 
Former Notre Dame All-in the country, so it is such an “[Tefft] was one of the hard-to want to just hang out with to the unknown role of being a American Kelcy Tefft will begin honor to be part of it.” est workers on our team that her, but now we’ll have to have part of the coaching staff. her new position as the assis-Tefft graduated from Notre year,” Mathews said. “She was a bit more of a professional re-“I’m thrilled to be working for tant coach for the Irish when Dame with an incredible im-such a great leader. It’s just lationship. But it will still be Coach Louderback,” Tefft said, practices commence Friday. pact on the women’s tennis kind of an awesome experience great because she is a close referring to Irish head coach 
As 2009 graduate of Notre program. She was a two-time to have her bookend my college friend and I’m really looking Jay Louderback, who coached Dame, Tefft is no stranger to the All-American and a two-time career.” forward to seeing her again.” her through all four years at team. She holds the school re-participant in both the NCAA Frilling served as Tefft’s final Tefft left the University of Tul-Notre Dame. “I look forward to cord for most career wins (265) Singles Championship and collegiate doubles partner, as sa where she spent two years learning more from him, but and was named Big East Player NCAA Doubles Championship. the pair ultimately reached a as an assistant coach for the now as a coach rather than a of the Year during her senior Tefft also has several per-No. 2 national ranking. Golden Hurricane. In 2010, Tul-player.” season. sonal experiences with current “It definitely will be a bit sa broke into the ITA national 
“I’m very excited to be return-team members. Senior captains weird at times because I’m so polls at No. 19 with Tefft’s help. see TEFFT/page 18 
MEN’S GOLF 

Scodro looks for top golf title 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Three years went by fast for senior Max Scodro — too fast. 
The awards piled up, as did the priceless experience gained from golf tournaments as a freshman that seem so far away to the Chicago native now. 
“It’s pretty crazy seeing the freshmen come in each year,” Scodro said. “I just remember being in that same spot, trying to do whatever I could for the team. It definitely flew by.” 
A veteran senior equipped with a sage-like mentality of the game, Scodro claims to 
see SCODRO/page 18 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
California girls run to play for Coach Brown 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
While Notre Dame volley­ball may not have the same visibility as NCAA football or basketball for nationwide recruiting each year, the pro­gram has recently gained at­tention by locating a particu­lar geographical niche with a pool of talented players. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown found her gold mine in the Golden State.  Of the 14 cur­rent players on the Notre Dame roster, six hail from California and call the West Coast home. 
The influx of talented play­ers from California has grown in recent years, such as soph­omore outside hitter Andrea McHugh, who hails from Yor­ba Linda, Calif. McHugh, the reigning Big East Freshman of the Year, was named the conference’s first Player of the Week for the 2011 season. 
“I started playing volleyball in the eighth grade, and it re­ally just took off from there,” McHugh said. “You start play­ing on better and better club teams, and the competition gets pretty intense. I origi­
see MCHUGH/page 18 






