
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Fighting Irish take flight 
ROTC revives Notre Dame Pilot Initiative, offers students ground course in basics of aviation 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Students fascinated by game day flyovers will have a chance to get an inside look at what it takes to fly next semester. The Notre Dame Pilot Initiative, an academic program intended to teach students about the fun­damentals of flight, will return this spring. 
The three-credit course, Principles of Flight, is specifi­cally designed to help aspirant pilots pass the written portion of the Federal Aviation Admin­istration’s (FAA) private pilot certification test. 
Jay Burns, a cadet captain in the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) and certified ground instructor, is leading the effort to bring back the course. He said the class will use much of the same material that helped him pass the FAA test. 
“I learned to fly from this material when I was still a 



Profs discuss adult stem cell research at Vatican 
By JESSICA STOLLER­CONRAD 
News Writer 
Though the Roman Catholic Church remains firmly against fetal stem cell research, two Notre Dame scholars visited the Vatican last week to discuss the option of adult stem cell re­search. 
Biological sciences profes­sor David Hyde and Program of Liberal Studies professor Phil­lip Sloan discussed the scien­tific feasibility and moral im­plications of adult stem cells at the International Vatican Con­ference’s forum, “Adult Stem Cells: Science and the Future of Man and Culture.” 
Sloan said adult stem cells are of interest to conference at­tendees because of their ability to offer medical benefit without the moral consequences of us­ing fetal tissue. 
“There is enormous prom­ise that has developed in adult stem cell biology,” Sloan said. “[Conference organizers] are very interested in finding ways in which this can be done with­out the destruction of human embryos.” 
The conference was a prod­uct of the Vatican-funded $1 million, five-year research and education partnership between NeoStem, a company that spe­cializes in cell therapies, and the Pontifical Council for Cul­ture.  The event hosted 350 specialists in the fields of stem 


see VATICAN/page 5 

sophomore in high school, and it certainly helped me pass my FAA written exam to get my private pilot certificate,” Burns said. “I felt that I was more ad­vanced because I’ve had a bet­ter background and a deeper understanding of the different concepts that you deal with in aviation.” 
Burns said he would incorpo­rate additional material used by Joe Friel, a former Air Force ROTC student who led the class the last time it was offered. 
Friel, now a program man­ager at Avidyne, the leading provider of cockpit instrumen­tation for small aircrafts, said he and Newcamp developed the curriculum to offer students an insight into the practical appli­cation of flight concepts. 
“We tried to bring ma­terial that was appro­priate, but that was in-dept h enough to give stu­dents a real apprecia ­tion for the concepts,” Friel said. “More than just memorizing for the tests, we wanted them to really under­stand what was making the plan fly.” 

When the initiative began, Friel said primarily AFROTC students were interested. The second semester, however, he was surprised by a drastic change in class makeup. 
“We taught some that did want to be pilots and some that didn’t,” Friel said.  “One girl that signed up for our course was an artist who drew some of the materials that we used, and who had signed up for the class because she had fam­


see FLIGHT/page 5 


Church revises Roman Missal 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 

The Roman Missal, the book of Mass prayer and ritual, is being given a new English translation intended to pre­pare the Church for an era of liturgical renewal, the chap­lain of the College of Saint Mary Magdalen said at a Wednesday evening lecture. 
Fr. Neil J. Roy said the new translation will take effect Nov. 27, the first Sunday of Ad­vent. 
“The liturgy exercises a formative influence on us as Catholic Christians, so I think it’s very wise of you to take the time to understand what is taking place and how we might benefit from it,” he said. 
The principles governing the updated translation of the Missal appear in the Vatican’s document “Liturgiam authen-precise theological and liturgi­cal language to express theo­logical truths in the context of the Sacred Liturgy,” Roy said. “The liturgy must express what the Church believes.” 

ticam,”  which  was  issued  in  
2001, Roy said.  
“The  instruction  demands  

“Liturgiam authenticam” 
urges prudence and attention 
to prayer, as well as an exact 
translation of the Latin text 
that is free from ideological in-
see MISSAL/page 5 



By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 

ND8, a student group fight­ing poverty in the Third World, hoped to lure students away from the dining halls Wednes­day and over to Eddy Street to support a fundraising event held at Five Guys. 
Ten percent of proceeds from sales between 5 p.m. and 10 
p.m. benefitted Second Chance, a Toledo, Ohio based organiza­tion supporting the victims of domestic sex trafficking. 
Sophomore Erin Hattler, ND8 co-president, said the organiza­


ND8 holds fundraiser at Five Guys 
tion aims to combat trafficking through advocacy. 
“Second Chance is a social service program that provides comprehensive services to vic­tims of domestic sex trafficking and prostitution, specializing in women and children,” Hat­tler said. “It focuses on raising community awareness, and try­ing to end exploitation through advocacy, securing resources for treatment and training for first responders.” 
Sophomore John Gibbons, co-president of ND8, said the group chose Second Chance because it directly addresses the challeng­es that trap victims in the cycle of trafficking.
 “Often, victims of sex traf­ficking are likely to go back into sex trafficking because they don’t know what else to do, and there aren’t enough resources devoted to helping them,” Gib­bons said. “Second Chance pro­vides a place where they can get away from everything, eventu­ally brining them back to soci­ety and something of a normal life.” 
Bill Purcell, associate direc­tor for Catholic Social Tradition 

see FIVE GUYS/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC students share conference experience page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Black Images page 8 u Men’s basketball deafeats Sam Houston St. page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, November 17, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE ETHNIC FOOD? 


Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Charles Xu  Nancy Zhu  Golnaz Karbasian  Ali Vahdati  Nikita Taniparti  
sophomore  senior  grad student  grad student  sophomore  
off campus  Walsh  Fischer O’Hara-Grace  Fischer O’Hara-Grace  Badin  
“Myself!”  “Charles Xu.”  “Persian Zereshk  “Lamb shish kabobs.”  “Tom Yum soup  
Polo.”  from Thailand.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Prison with more cats than inmates set to close 
BELLE GLADE, Fla. — Authorities say dozens of cats that sneaked into a South Florida prison will be found new homes be­fore the facility closes next month. 
As many as 80 cats have burrowed under fences and taken up residence at the state-run prison in Belle Glade. Prisoners have been feeding the animals, even though rules prohibit that. 
The 1,000-inmate prison closes Dec. 1. Officials tell The Palm Beach Post that as of Monday, there are more cats than prison­ers at the facility. Just 69 inmates remain awaiting transfers. 

Palm Beach County ani­mal control officers are removing the cats so they won’t starve when the pris­on closes. They’re offering to waive adoption fees to find them new homes. 
Some of the cats have been euthanized be­cause they were feral and couldn’t be adopted. 
Teen rescued after 10 hours in chimney 
NORCROSS, Ga. — Atlan­ta-area authorities say a teenage burglary suspect was pulled from a chimney by firefighters after being stuck there for more than 10 hours. 
Police say the 17-year-old boy was taken into custody after being freed from the chimney around 1:30 p.m. 
Tuesday at a home in Nor-cross, northeast of Atlanta. 
Gwinnett County police Cpl. Jake Smith tells The Atlanta Journal-Constitu­tion the teen was charged with burglary and giving false information to a po­lice officer. 
Smith said a neighbor heard someone yelling for help from her neighbor’s chimney. 
Authorities tell the Gwin­nett Daily Post the teen was screaming when fire crews arrived and told the fire­fighters he had been stuck there since 3 a.m. Tuesday. 
Firefighters freed him by lowering a rope from the top of the chimney. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Professor Zana Citak of Middle East Technical Uni­versity will give a talk titled “Religion, Ethnicity and Transnationalism: Turkish Islam in Europe” today at 
12:30 p.m. in room C103 in the Hesburgh Center for In­ternational Studies. 
Professor Victoria Tin­bor Hui of the Kellogg Insti­tute will give a lecture titled “What Does Chinese His­tory Tell Us About China’s Rise?” today at 4 p.m. in room C103 in the Hesburth Center for International Studies. 
Photographer Nandita Ra­man will be discussing her suite of photographs titled “Cinema Play House” to­day at 6:30 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. Her award-winning suite is 14 large-format black and white pho­tographs of old cinema halls in India built between 1930­1960. 
TransPose’s fall dance performance titled “Illumi­nate: A Study in Dance and Light” will take place to­night at 7:30 p.m. in LaFor­tune Ballroom. 
The Thai film titled “Un­cle Boonmee Who Can Re­call His Past Lives” will screen  tonight at 8 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The SUB movie for tonight is “Cowboys and Aliens.” It will screen in 101 DeBartolo Hall at 10 p.m., and tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
John Cameron Anna Boarini Tori Roeck 

Graphics 
Elisa DeCastro 

Photo 
Mackenzie Sain 


Sports 

Kelsey Manning Joseph Monardo Laura Coletti 

Scene 

Alexandra Kilpatrick 

Viewpoint 


LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 30 LOW 28 

HIGH 50 LOW 41 
HIGH 51 LOW 41 

HIGH 42 LOW 30 
HIGH 45 LOW 29 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
Meghan Thomassen 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 










Thursday, November 17, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 3 

STUDENT SENATE 



Group debates COR merger 
SMC students share conference experience 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate debated the feasibility of streamlining student government by merg­ing with the Council of Repre­sentatives (COR) at its meet­ing Wednesday. 
Oversight committee chair Ben Noe said the merger would make student govern­ment more effective by con­
solidating meet­ings and making the group more representative of the entire stu­dent body. 
“It would help cut down on the amount of neces­sary waste that goes into all the student govern­ment meetings,” Noe said. “It would also help those involved in COR who may not have a voice in the policy pro­
cess. It would give them a voice and a vote.” 
Student body vice presi­dent Brett Rocheleau said the change would eliminate COR and add eight new vot­ing members to Senate — the four class presidents, the off-campus president, the chair of the Student Union Board, the president of the Club Co­ordination Council and the Student Union treasurer. 
These extra voices would improve the dialogue at Stu­dent Senate meetings, student body president Pat McCor­mick said. 
“Wouldn’t it be cool to see 
Keough senator Andrew Anderson questioned wheth­er it would be fair to give voting powers to some of the suggested additional mem­bers, as a number of them are appointed rather than elected. 
While officers such as the Student Union treasurer are not elected, McCormick said they could still bring valuable viewpoints to Senate. 
“The idea would be that in having them here, they would be able to provide the per­spectives of the other impor­tant branches of the Student Union,” he said. 
Rocheleau said that though representation is a concern, the merger is primarily aimed at improving effectiveness. 
“While representation is a question, it isn’t the main focus of the fusion,” he said. “The fusion is trying to be more effective and have bet­ter meetings than we cur­rently have in the two sepa­rate meetings.” 
Walsh senator Elizabeth Owers, who also sits on COR, said the change would re­move the great deal of overlap experienced by students who attend more than one meet­ing per week. 
“Anything that’s not dis­cussed at COR, it’s discussed at Senate, then we get those updates at Hall Council too,” she said. “Plus if you’re sit­ting in three meetings a week, each one might not feel so important. But if you’re down to one, it makes it feel really important.” 

Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

if we could expand represen­tativeness in the Senate to re­ally get Senate to be more of a deliberative body, to include the class perspectives and other perspectives?” he said. 
McCormick said the com­mittee chair updates, which typically occur during the first 20 minutes of Senate, would be eliminated from the meet­ings in order for the group to focus more on addressing 
“Wouldn’t it be cool to see if we could expand representativeness in the Senate to really get Senate to be more of a deliberative body, to include the class perspectives and other perspectives?” 
Pat McCormick student body president 
student body 
issues.  
“There  is  
going  to  be  
a  little  bit  

more clarity at meetings,” he said. “This will really be the time for us to discuss the issues of the day for the student body.” 
The fusion would also of­fer students, especially those living 

off campus, better represen­tation in the policy branch of student government, McCor­mick said. 
“[Off-campus senator] Hel­en Costa represents 1500 stu­dents, while each other sena­tor represents approximately 300,” McCormick said. “Even though we have the halls cov­ered in Senate, we really don’t have off-campus students covered.” 
The additions of the off-campus president and the senior class president would ensure the needs of off-cam­pus students receive greater attention. 


By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Three Saint Mary’s students shared the insights they gained from attending an internation­al women’s issues conference this summer at a presentation held at the Student Center on Wednesday. 
“Global Women’s Worlds Con­gress: SMC Student Reflections and Experiences” offered Abby Henning, Alayne Riege and Gen Spittler a platform to discuss their experience at the Global Women’s Worlds Congress in Ottawa, Canada, this July.
 Sonalini Sapra, professor of political science and women’s studies, said the women ven­tured to Canada to get a clos­er look at the field of women’s studies and activism in a global context. 
“I really wanted students to be exposed to global women’s issues,” Sapra said. “Thanks to the Center for Women’s Inter-cultural Leadership (CWIL), I was able to take the three stu­dents with me to experience these issues firsthand. CWIL provided the funding for them to join me at the conference.” 
The 30th annual conference welcomed 2,000 attendees and 800 presenters from 92 coun­tries, focusing on a variety of women’s issues, including mili­tarism, fundamentalism and neo-liberalism. 
“The conference did a great job of addressing some of the issues women’s conferences 


Five Guys 
continued from page 1 
and Practice at the Center for Social Concerns, came to eat at Five Guys to support ND8’s ef­forts. 
“Our whole family came to support the work against hu­man trafficking, which often gets hidden in today’s society,” Purcell said. “This was a great way to benefit the local commu­nity’s economy, to get something to eat and to help the universal problem of human trafficking.” 
Freshman Erin O’Brien con­fessed to having dual motives for eating dinner at Five Guys. 
“It’s for a good cause and a good excuse to go get great food off campus,” she said. 

leave off the table normally,” Sapra said. “Issues like inclu­sivity, the creation of Young Women’s Leadership Teams and panels about aboriginal women’s rights were discussed that are not usually brought up.” 
Riege, a senior Psychology and Women’s Studies double major, said she was especially intrigued by the discussion of aboriginal women in Canada and the resemblance they bore to Native Americans in the United States. 
“We participated in a solidar­ity march in support of the 582 missing and murdered aborigi­nal women and girls in Cana­da,” Riege said. “This topic was a focal point of the conference.” 
Spittler, a junior Nursing and Women’s Studies major, said being in the presence of such influential figures and activists had an immense impact on the students. 
“In the morning we would go to the main conference and listen to some amazing femi­nists,” Spittler said. “Listening to some of their experiences was definitely inspiring.” 
Spittler said the conference highlighted the need for young women to continue the work of the women’s rights movement. 
“I realized that there are def­initely not enough young femi­nists in the world after attend­ing this conference,” she said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Hesburgh Library librarian Elizabeth Van Jacob brought her daughter Jemma to Five Guys in support of the event. Jemma, a student at John Adams High School, said she was glad to see the issue being addressed. 
“While studying through home schooling a few years ago, I read about this issue,” Jemma Van Jacob said. “It’s good to act locally to tackle this issue.” 
Elizabeth Van Jacob said the gravity of the problem demands attention. 
“I can’t believe that this is­sue is still going on and that it’s going on in the United States,” Elizabeth said. “This affects a lot of adolescent girls and boys, and we are completely opposed to this sort of violence.” 


Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 




Thursday, November 17, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 5 



College hosts panel on empowerment of Muslim women 
By CEALY GLOVER 
News Writer 
Scholars approached the hot-button issue of women’s rights in the Muslim world at a panel held Tuesday at Saint Mary’s College in the Vander Vennet Theatre. 
Three members of the panel,“Women and Empower­ment in the Muslim World: Var­ied Perspectives,” shared per­spectives on why women in the Muslim world often are treated as inferior to men. 
Nabila Feroz Bhatti, women’s rights activist and native Paki­stani, discussed the social and political forces opposing gender equality in Pakistan. 
“Pakistan is the third most dangerous country for women’s rights,” Bhatti said. “Today, Paki­stani women are facing socio­economic and political challenges in their struggle for equality.” 
Arabic professor Soraya Wirth said Islam is not inherently op­posed to gender equality, espe­cially with regard to education. 
“Islam recognizes men and women as … equal but differ­ent,” Wirth said.  “According to the Quran, all people, men and women, are expected to obtain knowledge.” 
Wirth said the Quran does not require that a woman take her husband’s last name, that a man punish his wife physically or that a woman wear a hijab, the tradi­tional Muslim head covering. 

The Quran also depicts women as being equally worthy of enter­ing heaven, she said. 
“The Quran says that all should enter into paradise.  It doesn’t say ‘men’ should enter, but ‘all,’” Wirth said. 
Dr. Roy Seitz, a marine physi­cian previously stationed in Af­ghanistan, analyzed the issue from a militaristic standpoint. He attributed much of the injustice against women to the Taliban. 
“Although my perspective is limited to the rural areas of Af­ghanistan, the Taliban seemed to be directly related to the violence that occurred with both men and women,” Seitz said. 
Seitz said he had little interac­tion with the Afghan women, who were more inclined to speak with the female Marines. 
“The women steered clear of us and I really felt like they didn’t want our help.  It seemed like they were, in a way, scared that we would westernize them,” Dr. Seitz said. 
Seitz relayed an anecdote of an encounter with a woman and child in Afghanistan as evidence of Afghani women’s attitude to­ward the West. 
“I remember one day when we were traveling through a town and a woman was on the side of the road with her child,” Seitz said.  “Immediately when we passed her she hid her child behind her back.  It was like she didn’t want the child to even see us.” 
Senior Jessica Cross said the panel offered an interesting com­plement to her coursework on the topic. 
“This panel was a great addi­tion to the Gender and Politics course I am currently taking,” she said.  “The panel did a great job at showing different perspec­tives on women in Pakistan, Af­ghanistan, and [under] Islam in general.” 

Contact Cealy Glover at cglove01@saintmarys.edu 


of peace. Mass attendees will more opportunity for that.” 
so powerful and so multi-di-



Missal 

now respond “and with your Reactions to the new Eng-

Vatican 

mensional that an oath is nec­spirit,” rather than the current lish translation have varied 
essary to maintain and ethical continued from page 1 “and also with you.” Roy said greatly, Roy said. While some 
continued from page 1 framework?” Sloan said. the new wording reflects the parishes gradually integrated 
Hyde, who studies tissue re­fluence, Roy said. The transla-priest’s spirit of ordination. the changes into the Mass, oth­
cell research and bioethics. generation, said the conference tion is not creative innovation, Roy said the Church will ers are waiting until the Nov. 
“The purpose of the con-was a unique opportunity to but rather, a faithful and accu-be referred to using feminine 27 deadline in the hopes that 
ference was to show that the get feedback and input from rate rendering of the original pronouns instead of “it.” This the Holy See will revoke the 
Church actually has a very pos-scholars across disciplines. text. change identifies the Church changes.  
itive attitude toward science “[The conference was] very “[The new translation pro-as a dynamic institution rather Roy said he thinks the 
and technology, and the image eye-opening from the stand­vides] a sort of formal equiva-than an inanimate object. changes are beneficial as some 
of the Church as being opposed point of where adult stem cell lence rather than a dynamic “Now [the Church] has a cer-meaning was lost in the 1970 
to developments in science and therapies actually stand,” he equivalence [to the Latin text],” tain life, a certain quality, a English translation of the Mis-
medicine and biotechnology said. “[It fostered] private dis-Roy said. “The new translation certain character,” Roy said. sal. 
are simply false,” Sloan said. cussions among individuals does succeed in observing the Roy said the new translation “Let’s use these [new words] 
He said critics of the con-about where we stand in our principles that the original text also places greater focus on for a while and let’s test them,” 
ference described presenters work. We made some impor­must be translated integrally.” the role of music in the liturgy. he said. “Let’s see how the 
as “overly-enthusiastic” about tant contacts that will poten-The changes also provide “We should think about Church grows with them. Lit-
the possibilities for adult stem tially affect the directions of a clearer sense of sacredness singing the Mass, rather than urgy is formative. There are 
cells, but he said the presenters our research.” and a greater openness to mys-singing at the Mass,” he said. good things that will come.” 
supporting the research based While Hyde praised the way tery, Roy said. “It’s good to chant the Mass as 
their statements on sound evi-the conference facilitated dia-One change applies to the re-a practice, so you’ll find that Contact Marisa Iati at 
dence. logue, he said the program­sponse to the priest’s greeting in the new Missal. You’ll have miati@nd.edu 
“I think they were actually ming could have focused more able to demonstrate that they on the hard science. have had remarkable success “I don’t believe that the use already in things with leukemia of human embryonic stem and lupus therapies,” he said. cells was explored in sufficient “I don’t think there was any at-depth,” Hyde said. “They could tempt to discount difficulties or have had more of a discussion make excessive promises.” about the concerns of using 
Sloan’s presentation, “Should human embryonic stem cells, the Hippocratic Oath Be Ex-not just from the Church’s side, tended to Life Sciences?” fo-but also from a scientific stand­cused on the moral implica-point.” tions and necessary guidelines for biological research. Contact Jessica Stoller-Conrad at 
“Is this new kind of research jstolle1@nd.edu 
have more of the background 


Flight 

knowledge that corresponds to understanding flying, so this continued from page 1 class will help me by giving me 
that knowledge,” she said. ily members who flew and she Jordan Hoover, another AF-wanted more of an apprecia-ROTC sophomore, said he is tion of flying.” taking the class to get exposure 
Colonel Andrew Cernicky, a to material he may later see in professor of Aerospace Stud-the Air Force’s pilot training. ies, a U.S. Air Force pilot and “I’m fairly sure that I want to a graduate of Notre Dame’s be a pilot,” Hoover said.  “[The ROTC program, will co-lead course] will give me the expe­the course with Burns. rience to know for sure that’s 
Cernicky said he was excited what I want to do, and I’ll have when Burns approached him seen the material that I would with his plans for revitalizing encounter in pilot training.” the initiative, both because he Now retired Colonel Mike took the course as an under-Zenk, who oversaw the pro-graduate and because it of-gram when it was under Fri­fered an opportunity to expose el’s leadership, said the origi­students to the fundamentals nal class material included of flight for the first time. many of the elements taught 
“This class should demystify at ground school.  Students the process of flying and make learned the basics of aero­it completely understandable,” dynamics, FAA rules about Cernicky said.  “You don’t need airspaces, airport and flight to be a scientist or mathemati-operations, communications cian to take this course, any-with ground crews, safety pre­one at ND can take it that has cautions and pilot navigation an interest in understanding skills. how aircraft fly.” “The biggest benefit [of the 
Mary Hession, a sophomore class] is taking that first step in Notre Dame’s Air Force towards actually being able ROTC, said she is glad the to fly an airplane,” Zenk said. course is designed to be acces-“To help spark that interest or sible to those without previous to take their first step towards experience. As a Russian ma-a dream that they have is the jor, she said the course would best reason to take the class.” be a good introduction to a more technical area of study. Contact Nicole Michels at 
“All of the technical majors nmichels@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, November 17, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 



My college coffee maker saga 
Coffee. 

I live and breathe for a good cup of coffee. 
I know the best place and cheap­est places to get coffee on campus, and I have a 22-oz. refillable travel mug that is so tall, I have to lift the ca­rafes in Waddick’s onto the counter in order to fit my mug under the spout. 
Most of my Flex Points are spent on plain black coffee. 

I am such a coffee snob that my history with coffee makers on campus (like my history with Meijer goldfish) is long and complex. 
My freshman year, I had a Keurig single-cup coffee maker that woke up my roommate at 8 a.m. every Mon­day, Wednesday and Friday, but en­sured I was wide awake for my 8:30 
a.m. Italian class. 

The glorious Keurig machine produced at least four cups of coffee per day, dramatically shortening its lifespan. 
Notre Dame’s hard-as-nails water left a white film in the water reser­voir, eventually clogging the brewing system. 
My supply of Extra Bold Fair Trade French roast single serving pod cof­fee was cut off. 
This was a blessing in disguise, since although the Keurig made fan­tastic coffee, it only made 6 oz. at a time — not nearly enough to sustain my six-cups-per-day habit. 
Enter the French press, purchased at Starbucks in LaFortune for 25 well-invested Flex Points. 
“One cup” in the French press is equivalent to five cups in the Keurig. On bad days, I drink two presses of coffee, plus Huddle or Reckers coffee on the way to class and Waddick’s when my terrorism class ends early. 
The crown jewel of my college coffee saga was a freshly-roasted Brazilian/Kona blend shipped by my father, who appreciates good coffee even more than I do. 
These coffee beans arrived during midterms week, packaged in a Ziploc bag and so potent that the cardboard box they were shipped in smelled like coffee. 
I ate a few beans straight from the bag, and enjoyed the best coffee of my life for the next month. 
The saddest day this semester was the morning I brewed the last of my Kona coffee. 
Pumpkin Spice Green Mountain coffee from Waddicks is great, but can never compare to the taste of Kona coffee brewed in a dorm room at 9 o’clock in the morning. 
Writing this column has made me realize exactly how much coffee I consume, but I’m not worried about stunting my growth, staining my teeth or messing up my heart rate. 
What I really want right now is a good cup of coffee. 
Contact Suzanna Pratt at      spratt2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Suzanna Pratt 
Associate Photo Editor 

This is tough love 
Sometimes I do feel as if Jesus is saying to us patiently, but emphati­cally, “Pay. Attention. To. Me.” I believe that this week, between two Sundays of very straightforward gospel read­ings, is one of those times. Kate Barrett 
Last Sunday he told us, “Make the Faithpoint most of the gifts God has given you, or you — useless and lazy — will be thrown out into the darkness.” 
This Sunday he will warn, “Take care of those who need you the most, or you will certainly go off to eternal punishment.” These passages from Matthew’s gospel contain some of Je­sus’ most frank, forthright commands to his disciples, which means of course that today we must understand that he is speaking to each of us. 
I can remember hearing this Sun­day’s gospel reading as a child, and actually enjoying it. I think I liked the familiarity of it: as soon as the priest read the part where Jesus says, “He will place the sheep on his left and the goats on his right,” I knew what was coming. 
I liked the rhythm and the repetition I knew would come — “I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, a stranger and you welcomed me, naked and you clothed me, ill and you cared for me, in prison and you visited me,” and then later, “I was hungry and you gave me no food, thirsty and you gave me no drink … ” 
It was even set to music, which gave 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

us the opportunity to sing those engag­ing, poetic phrases, rather than simply listen to them. 
As I grew older and came to under­stand more clearly the meaning of Jesus’ instructions to his disciples, I realized the complexity of this reading called me to a deeper, more substan­tive response than simply finding it as appealing as a familiar acquaintance I met up with every so often at Mass. 
So this reading is what tough love sounds like. On the one hand, we rest the foundations of our lives and beliefs on the faithful knowledge that God loves us wholly and unconditionally, and yet on the other hand the same limitless love of God calls us to unself­ishness, and demands that we live for others. 
God’s love insists, in fact, that with every cell in our bodies we attempt to imitate the way God loves us in the way we treat not only our family and friends, but those we might be tempted to overlook. In the hungry and thirsty poor, in the lonely outcasts living on the edges of our communities, in the prisoner who needs our compassionate presence, Jesus is unavoidably present and pleads with us to love as he loves. 
If these demands make us uncom­fortable, we might be tempted to think to ourselves, “At least after this Sunday, Advent begins. Now we’ll hear some comforting, heartwarming sto­ries about Jesus’ birth in Bethlehem.” 
Nope, not so fast. 
Throughout the first three weeks of Advent (that’s a whopping 75 percent of the season, if you’re counting) the gospels continue to bring us more warnings: “Keep awake!” “The one more powerful than I is coming!” “Make straight the way of the Lord!” 
The ancient Israelites, guided by their belief in their covenant promises with God, anticipated that God would break into human history in a way that would change everything — and he did, in the person of Jesus Christ. Our anticipation has a different character:  we await the return of Christ at the end of time. 
When we celebrate the birth of the baby Jesus, we have to ask the Jesus who died and rose for us to show us, over and over, how we are to make straight the path for his coming again. 
The Good News — and it is good news, even if it is of the demanding, uncomfortable, tough love variety — is that God is not trying to trick us into eternal damnation. He does not wish unsuspecting errors or oversights upon us, moments when we fail to notice his presence in the lonely, the poor or the imprisoned. If we choose to unite ourselves to his intimate love for us, through finding him not only in our prayer and worship, but in tending the sheep of God’s flock as lovingly as he does, we will truly find, as Jesus states at the end of Sunday’s gospel, eternal life. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Em­maus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is only one thing a philosopher can be relied upon to do, and that is to contradict other philosophers.” 
William James 
U.S. philosopher & psychologist 



WEEKLY POLL 
Would you wear a Fanny pack? 

Of course. Of course not. Only if it’s the latest trend. This shouldn’t be a question. 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Thursday, November 17, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



Underneath Halloween costumes 
The purpose of this column is to help create an atmosphere where critically engaging our culture becomes the norm. When we are intentional about this, we are able to clearly delineate those behaviors that fit us and those David Moss which do not. 
This then leads Dr. D @ to our community the GRC being able to discuss relationship-based topics thoughtfully, honestly and cou­rageously. 
The end result of this process is an environment where healthy dialogue, personal introspection and culture change (if desired) are real possibili­ties. It is an expectation of human na­ture that we typically follow the tradi­tions of those who have gone before us. 
This is true of the Notre Dame com­munity. Some of our traditions are of great value and flow naturally from the founding tenets of this institution. There are other traditions, however, that make one wonder about the un­derlying mechanisms that keep them alive. 
Let us consider the beloved tradition of dressing up (or down as the case may be) for Halloween. 
We should all be concerned about issues that hinder our ability to build authentic relationships in our com­munity. I have talked with a number of individuals who label dressing up for Halloween as a “harmless way to relax” from the pressures of academia. 
No argument here. When I was an undergraduate, I participated fully in my share of costume parties. I must say, however, that the style of cos­tumes has changed drastically over the years. 
Although there are some students who still choose “traditional” cos­tumes, the “cover as little as possible” motif has become a common occur­rence. As individuals who are grow­ing into manhood and womanhood, it is important to feel attractive and desired. I get it. 
But we sometimes cross “the line” when we adopt the norms of popular media to determine our attractiveness. The current social environment has certain assumptions and expectations for attracting positive attention, and this influences greatly how we think others “want us” to look or behave. 
By following these well-established, but unwritten rules, we actively participate in objectifying ourselves and others. Among other characteris­tics, this can take the form of women showing more skin than they normally would and men adopting a nonchalant, emotionally distant form of relating. 
Objectification is ubiquitous in our society. How ironic that although ex­tremely common, we have a hard time recognizing it. 
This was never more salient to me than when I was recently walk­ing through the mall with one of my daughters, and she commented on her displeasure with one of her body parts. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Extraterrestrial intelligence 
Normally I wouldn’t succumb to the pressures of expressing my opinion through a Viewpoint article. However, this topic is of great importance for both Catholics and atheists, Republicans and Democrats and all who find themselves living on this planet. The subject I would like to address concerns the search extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI).
    For years, many men and women have explored the heavens in search of intelligent beings other than ourselves. Dangers exist in such curiosity that could end civilization as we know it. 
Let me posit the scenario that we did in fact contact other intelligent beings. If these entities can comprehend and reply to our communications, there is a good chance that they posses the same, if not more, intellectual capacity than ourselves. The implications could not only mean greater technology, but could also mean something much more grave.
    Who is to say that this alien race shares the same ethical and moral val­ues that we share as humans? Who is to say, once contacted, these intelligent beings would not want to enslave us or exterminate our species, much as we want to get rid of household pests? These are just a few of the many implica­tions of extraterrestrial contact. To quote Professor Stephen Hawking, “We only have to look at ourselves to see how intelligent life might develop into something we wouldn’t want to meet.”
    Any activities related to SETI should be ceased immediately. Perhaps there was something to “Alien,” “Independence Day,” “War of the Worlds,” “Signs,” “Invasion of the Body Snatchers,” “Mars Attacks!,” “The Blob,” “Mon­sters vs. Aliens” and the list goes on. 
If you ask me, I am just fine remaining intelligently alone on this planet. 
Walker Anderson 
senior off campus Nov. 16 

I am grateful that she was willing to discuss her perceptions with me in some detail and that I was able to point out both real and impossible to attain (air brushing, plastic-like skin, computer generated perfection) ver­sions of beauty in the mall. 
Crisis averted ... for now. 
From music videos, to posters on our walls, to video game characters, to “sex sells” advertisements, objectifica­tion distorts the entirety of the human experience by emphasizing only the physical component of the person. 
For a fuller explanation, I encour­age you to check out the film “Killing Us Softly” which is available for your use from the Gender Relations Center resource library. 
The ultimate expression of objectifi­cation is the production and consump­tion of pornography. Pope John Paul II has been quoted as saying, “The problem with pornography is not that it shows too much, but that it shows too little.” 
I agree with this statement com­pletely. Focusing on only the physical is disrespectful and inadequate in representing the marvelous, incredible and mysterious nature of God’s human creation. 
As beings created for both vertical (with God) and horizontal (with each other) relationships, it is in our best interest to recognize that our acqui­escence to popular culture does not always yield the quality of relationship we desire. 
I think I am on safe ground when I say that most of us are looking for ver­tical and horizontal relationships that are meaningful and authentic.  This is a lofty goal, but one that is attainable. A necessary part of this process will be our ability to pay close attention to the scripts we bring to life. 
Without circumspection, these scripts often lead us down the path of objectification and become the water we swim in. 
All is well when the tide is high, but when the water recedes we are left gasping for air. How unfortunate it is that in many cases, these scripts determine our life experience instead of the other way around. 
This is where the courage piece talked about earlier comes in.  When you recognize a maladaptive script in your life or in the life of a friend, will you have the courage to swim against the tide? 
May God bless us with this kind of personal honesty and authentic friend­ship. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
Rachel Kellogg also contributed to this article. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Defending reform efforts 
Dear Mr. Bangs, 
I read your Letter to the Editor “Christie isn’t helping” on Nov. 14, and I feel it ignores crucial facts regarding our state’s educational system. 
You first claim that Governor Christie “began his tenure with a vicious attack on school­teachers […] as overcompensated.” The governor has consistently remarked that his rhetoric is aimed at the leadership of the teachers’ union. 
Second, he claims that because teachers earn a solid middle class salary, they could contribute more to their benefits. According to Census data from 2009, New Jersey teachers earned an average salary of $63,100 per year, which is 22.9 percent above the national average of $51,400. 
Consequently, New Jersey teachers are the fourth highest paid in the nation. This leads me to the real focus of Governor Christie’s reform efforts, pension and healthcare benefits. 
This past summer, a Democratic State Assembly and Senate passed sweeping public employee reforms. 
Teachers must now pay 7.5 percent into their pensions up from 5.0 percent. Addition­ally, the retirement age for new teachers increased to 65, up from 60. Health benefits will be paid for in a tiered system based on a teacher’s salary. These reforms tackled the $120 billion unfunded and unsustainable liability New Jersey taxpayers were facing in coming years. 
You respond that the Governor should have raised taxes in response to this shortfall, but this ignores the fact that New Jersey residents already face some of the highest state and local taxes in the country.  In 2010, the average property tax bill was $7,281, the high­est in the nation. Raising taxes would hurt middle class workers, such as teachers, the most. 
The governor has been called a bully, deemed too blunt and overly harsh and even com­pared to Hitler by a national union leader. Yet, all of this ignores that as of this September, 
54.0 percent of New Jersey voters approved of his performance. 
Governor Christie merely disputes that there is a more affordable approach to New Jersey’s excellent educational system. His reforms reflect his pragmatic approach to gov­erning, an approach that makes union benefits fiscally sustainable in a way our country’s politicians often fail to do. 
Sincerely, 
Andrew Kristiansen 
senior off campus Nov. 15 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, November 17, 2011 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

The Black Cultural Arts Council will produce its annual fall show, Black Images, after the Bos­ton College football game Saturday. Every year Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students entertain audiences with their talents and skills for this family-friendly production. 
This year’s show, called “One Night Only,” will not feature a specific theme, but rather a diverse array of performances. For the first time in its history, Black Images will be a talent competi­tion rather than just a showcase. The audience will decide who they thought had the best perfor­mance, and the winner will be awarded a prize. 
Film, Television and Theatre faculty member Brian McLaughlin will host, and for another first, the show will feature a live disc jockey, DJ 3J. 
Vice president of the Black Cultural Arts Coun­cil, junior Purterson Justilien, said he is excited to participate in a production brought to Notre Dame by a long line of talent. 
“I’m hoping this new format will blow everyone away,” said Justilien. “There are a few surprises we have in store for the audience and I know ev­eryone who attends will enjoy themselves.” 
First Class Ladies and First Class Fellas, Proj­ect Fresh, Dance Africa and Voices of Faith will all perform. Over half a dozen singers, dancers and rappers will also participate. 
One of the solo acts performing Saturday is sophomore Chinelo Onyeador, who will play the violin and also dance with Dance Africa. On­yeador said it is important to participate in events like these to battle stereotypes on campus. 
“A lot of times students at Notre Dame have this stigma about black students on campus,” Onyeador said. “I feel like people think we’re all the same and this is an opportunity to show that we aren’t. There’s a variety of talents in the black community and this is the perfect place for every­one to showcase these talents. We’ve been blessed with a place that is comfortable for everyone.” 
Nneka Ekechukwu, a Pasquerilla East senior Dance Africa member, said diversity is repre­sented in the group. 
“In our group you can see that ‘black’ means so many different things, whether one is from Vir­ginia or Nigeria,” said Ekechukwu. “Our dance is a mixture of traditional cultural songs to more contemporary music from different parts of Af­rica that incorporates a lot of hip movement, be­cause no matter what part of Africa someone is from, the hip action is something we all have in common.” 
Fellow Dance Africa member senior Kenenna Amuzie said it is important to represent the di­verse African community. 
“I am really looking forward to sharing part of the many beauties of African culture with the Af­rican American community on campus and the greater Notre Dame community,” Amuzie said. 
Amuzie is also a singer in the student led faith organization Voices of Faith, a regular act in the Black Images showcase. 
“Black Images is one of the many wonderful op­portunities through which Voices is able to show what the choir is all about, while praising God through our uplifting music,” said Amuzie. 
First Class Steppers, a step-dancing, percussive dance group will perform, using their entire bod­ies as instruments to produce complex rhythms and sounds. 
“Our purpose or mission has always been to showcase to and educate the Notre Dame com­munity, as well as the greater area of South Bend, on the African-American tradition and culture of stepping, a modern form of traditional African dance,” said senior co-president Brittany Suggs. “Black Images has always encouraged the Afri­can, African American and Caribbean ethnici­ties of the Black Notre Dame community to dis­play their cultures, talents and gifts in order to create an enriching experience for all whom at­tend the show.” 
Ramon Chandler, a Saint Mary’s College first year, will both perform with Project Fresh and belly dance as a solo act. 
“I am excited to show people the true mean­ing of belly dancing, which calls for the finding of oneself and the building of confidence,” said Chandler. “I think being in Black Images is im­portant because it showcases everyone no matter what race they are, and gives them a chance to show their talent.” 
Proceeds from ticket sales benefit the Frazier Thompson Scholarship Fund. 
Black Images: One Night Only takes place in Washington Hall on Saturday, Nov. 19 at 9 p.m. after the Boston College football game. Pre-sale tickets can be purchased in the LaFortune Box Office for $8 and at the door the night of the show for $10. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 





On Campus 

What: Black Images: One Night Only Who: Black Cultural Arts Council Where: Washington Hall When: Saturday, Nov. 19 at 9 p.m. How much: $8 for pre-sale tickets purchased at the LaFortune Box Office, $10 at the door 


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Thursday, November 17, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
“Goodfellas” Legends Midnight Free 

You’ve always wanted to see this classic Scorsese gangster film, right? Legends has you covered. Make your way over to Legends  to join your fellow Domers for a viewing of this strikingly realistic depiction of organized crime. 
Hypnotist Tom DeLuca Washington Hall 9 p.m. Free 
Tom DeLuca has been hyp­notizing — literally — the Notre Dame campus for years. He’s back, so bring out your favorite friends to volunteer to be hypnotized. You’ll be shocked at what Tom gets them to do. 

“Cowboys and Aliens” DeBartolo 101 8 and 11 p.m. $3 
Brought to you by the direc­tor of “Iron Man,” this hybrid Western-science fiction film features Harrison Ford and Daniel Craig as two guys in the Old West who must battle aliens to save their frontier town. 
“Provenance” Philbin Studio Theatre 
2:30 and 7:30 p.m. $5 for students, $10 regular admission 
Written by Notre Dame Moreau Fellow Anne Garcia-Romero, this story about the Mexican heritage of two sis­ters allows the Notre Dame community to see a play in its first on-stage incarnation. 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

Take a minute and think about the last few songs you heard on your favor­ite Top 40 radio station. If you’re read­ing this online, check out the most pop­ular singles on iTunes or the Billboard Top 100. There’s quite a bit of country music on there. In fact, 28 songs on the Billboard chart are country. 
From Taylor Swift and her teen angst songs to Toby Keith’s patriotic tunes, country music has secured a spot in today’s pop music. These artists have become such an enormous part of the music landscape that it’s almost hard to ignore or escape them. It’s not unusual to hear “Just a Kiss” by Lady Antebel­lum, no. 27 according to Billboard, played right behind Jason DeRulo’s “It Girl” on U93 these days. 
The appearance of country music on the pop scene is recent. Before Car­rie Underwood won “American Idol” in 2005 and Taylor Swift released her self-titled debut album in 2006, the only country songs most people knew were one or two Kenny Chesney and Johnny Cash tunes. Artists like Garth Brooks, Shania Twain and Faith Hill had platinum-selling albums in the 90s, but their songs stayed mostly in the country genre with little overlap into popular music. 
Many people associated country with hicks singing about their trucks, coon dogs and their women that left them. It was stereotyped and looked down on as a subpar genre of music by many, and sometimes still is. 
I’ll be honest, I fell victim to the ste­reotypes. I hated country music on prin­ciple and wouldn’t even listen to Taylor Swift. When I got my roommate assign­ment the summer before freshman year, I freaked out when I found out one of my roommates was from Texas. Using my 21st technology, I stalked her on Face­book and discovered her love of country music and “Twilight,” two of my least favorite things. I thanked my lucky stars my other roommate was from New York 

— at least she was from the Northeast, she had to be relatively normal. 
Four years later, I’m still friends with both roommates and have lived with the Texan for all four years. And while she’ll never get me to crack open a “Twilight” book, I’m addicted to country music. 
As much I like to think I’m unique, I’m definitely not in this case. Country music used to be contained to the South, but now you can find people from all over the U.S. with a country music sta­tion on their radio presets. It’s surpris­ing to see how far the country genre has spread in popularity — it has enveloped people you would never expect. 
Maybe it’s the deep gravelly voices on the handsome male singers or the con­sistent theme of stubborn individualism in songs like “Country Boy Can Survive” by Hank Williams, Jr. that make the genre so appealing now. Maybe it’s the abundance of gorgeous blonde females. However it came about, country is big now. You can buy a country edition of People Magazine and find a country mu­sic festival in almost any major city. 
Sure, none of the songs on the Bill­board chart are above no. 20 — though that might change when T. Swift releas­es her next album in 2012. And it’ll be a while before I hear one of these songs at Feve. But nevertheless, country music is making its mark on today’s music scene. 
I guess the title of Brantley Gilbert’s new single, “Country Must Be Country Wide,” speaks the truth. Fittingly, his song is at no. 53 according to Billboard. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
ELISA DE CASTRO  | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 17, 2011 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Fear the beard 
It’s that time of the year again. It is the middle of November, which means the leaves are disappearing and surprisingly, so are the beards. This is No-Shave November, Mo­vember, Noshember or whatever you want to call it but the beards and ‘staches are becoming fewer and fewer. 
Maybe to some of you it doesn’t look right, it itches or it is patchier than the Chicago Bears offensive line. Even Andrew Luck shaved his lumber­jack beard and Stan­ford pro­ceeded to lose to Or­egon. Co­incidence? I think not. So to encour ­age and inspire the few of you beard connoisseurs left, here are the top 10 beards/mus­taches in sports history — all of whom have had successful careers that clearly would not have been possible without their whiskers. 
No. 10: Larry Bird 
Okay sure, the Hick from French Lick’s white-on-white ‘stache was practically invisible, but that is what made it so great. Bird’s blond invisi­stache first flew into the picture at Indiana State, where he led the Syc­amores to the NCAA championship game. Oh and did I mention he won three NBA titles with the Celtics? 
No. 9: Brett Keisel 
In 2010, the Steelers’ defensive end grew out his beard for eight months, making its encore per­formance at Super Bowl XLV. The beard almost had a mind of its own and probably trapped as much leftover food as Keisel did quarter­backs. Curly and outrageous, the essence of man was discovered (and has over 35,000 likes on Facebook). 
No. 8: Any European NBA player 
Whether they even know it is there, we will never know. But from Pau Gasol’s neck beard to Dirk’s goatee to Vlade Divac’s beard that looked like it never grew, Europe is without a doubt the leader in raising men’s health awareness. 
No. 7: Baron Davis 
Despite moonlighting as Kanye West, the Cavaliers point guard finds time to run an offense and is known most for leading the No. 8 seed Warriors over the heavily fa­vored Mavericks in the 2007 “We Believe” playoffs. Thunder forward James Harden is a disciple of Davis and it is a proven fact the Most Inter­esting Man in the World fashioned his beard after the Baron. 
No. 6: George Parros 
NHL players are known for grow­ing playoff beards to show team uni­ty, but Parros’ teams don’t need to. His ‘stache/soul patch combo makes the enforcer one of hockey’s most feared players. Oh, and you can fol­low him on Twitter @stache16. 

Andrew Gastelum 
Sports Writer 
No. 5: Brian Wilson 
The San Francisco Giants clos­er’s beard is as unpredictable as the flamethrower himself, and intimidated so many hitters in the 2010 World Series that the Giants took home the title. And apparently the beard has taken a liking to Taco Bell and was the mastermind behind the onesie tuxedo at the ESPY’s. 
No. 4: Johnny Damon 
The center fielder/caveman was Boston’s savior in 2004. The Beard hit two home runs in Game 7 of the ALCS against the hated Yankees to get them to the World Series, leading the Sox to their first title in 86 years and break­ing the Curse of the Bambino. 
No. 3: The Ryder Cup Cigar Guy/Bobby Valentine 
Both were impersonations and both were fake Groucho Marx ‘staches, but that doesn’t mean they can’t be celebrated. The Cigar Guy took the 2010 Ryder Cup by storm as he stood in the background of each Tiger Woods tee-off with an orange-wig, cigar and a mustache that had more hair than Landon Donovan. The Cigar Guy became an internet sensation, appearing in classic pictures from Muhammed Ali’s knockdown of Sonny Liston to the Mona Lisa. Meanwhile, Valen­tine, as manager of the Mets, was ejected from a game in 1999 and went down in sporting lore by re­turning to the dugout disguised in a casual fishing hat, glasses and fake mustache. 
No. 2: Adam Morrison 
This trash-stache led the Lak­ers to two-straight NBA titles in 2009 and 2010. The year they released Morrison, the franchise was swept in the second round and Phil Jackson retired. And the mustache (if you can call it that) is good for catching tears, right Gonzaga? 
No. 1: Rollie Fingers 
The waxy handlebar is more than just a mustache; it is an identity. Originally grown to receive a $300 bonus from the Oakland A’s owner, the ‘stache became an icon of facial hair in sports. Consider him the Daniel Boone of sports ‘staches. 
If you “moustache”, there is a point to all of this. This month represents a great cause, raising awareness for  prostate cancer: a disease that takes the lives of over 30,000 men each year. One in every six men will be diag­nosed with prostate cancer and beard-a-thons are taking place all over the country. These ath­letes above participated, just in­directly. But it is that time of the year again, time to show our sup­port. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Record of McQuery report not found 
Associated Press 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — Penn State campus police and their counterparts in State College said Wednes­day that they had no record of Mike McQueary reporting an alleged sexual assault by Jerry Sandusky on a 10-year­old boy in a campus shower. 
The details ran counter to McQueary’s claims in an email to former teammates and made available to The Associated Press this week. 
McQueary, then a graduate assistant, wrote in the email that he had discussions with police about what he saw. In the email, McQueary did not specify which police department he spoke to. 
State College borough po­lice chief Tom King said Mc-Queary didn’t make a re­port to his department. 
Campus police referred questions on the Sandusky case to the university’s public information office. 
“At this point we have no re­cord of any police report be­ing filed in 2002” by McQueary in connection with the San­dusky case, university spokes­woman Annemarie Mountz said, adding police searched their records Wednesday. 
The football building is on university property, so campus police would have been the most likely to respond for a police call. 
Mountz also noted the 23-page grand jury report was the state attorney general’s summary of testimony, so it’s unclear what McQueary’s full testimony was. 
The news came after a new judge was assigned to handle the child sex abuse charges against Sandusky, whose tele­vised defense earlier this week drew a rebuke from a law­yer for one of his accusers. 
The change removed a State College judge with ties to a char­ity founded by Sandusky for at-risk children, The Second Mile. 
Harrisburg attorney Ben Andreozzi said he repre­sents a client who will testify against Sandusky, who is ac­cused of abusing eight boys, some on campus, over 15 years. 
“I am appalled by the fact that Mr. Sandusky has elected to re-victimize these young men at a time when they should be healing,” Andreozzi said in a statement released by his of­fice. “He fully intends to testify that he was severely sexually assaulted by Mr. Sandusky.” 
Sandusky’s lawyer, Joe Amendola, appeared with him on NBC’s “Rock Center” on Monday night and cast doubt on the evidence in the case. 
“We anticipate we’re go­ing to have at least several of those kids come forward and say, ‘This never happened. This is me. This is the allegation. It never occurred,’” Amendola said. 

Andreozzi said he has his “fin­ger on the pulse” of the case and knows of no accusers changing their stories or refusing to testify. 
“To the contrary, others are ac­tually coming forward, and I will have more information for you later this week,” Andreozzi said. 
Sandusky, 67, appeared on the show by phone and said he had showered with boys but never molested them. 
Sandusky is due in court on Dec. 7, and the Administrative Office of Pennsylvania Courts announced that a Westmoreland County se­nior district judge would preside over his preliminary hearing. Robert E. Scott is taking over the hearing from Centre County District Judge Leslie Dutchcot. 
Dutchcot has donated money to The Second Mile, where authori­ties say Sandusky met his victims. 
The  office  said  Scott  
has  no  known  ties  to  Penn  
State  or The  Second  Mile.  

Amendola defended the de­cision to have his client go on television, telling the Cen­tre Daily Times on Wednes­day the move was designed to demonstrate he had a defense. 
“The more people who hear him explain that he didn’t com­mit the acts of which he’s been charged, the better off he’s going to be down the road,” Amendola told the newspaper. 
It remains unclear how many accusers have surfaced more than a week after state police and the attorney general’s of­fice said at a news conference they were seeking additional potential victims and witnesses. 
State police spokeswoman Maria Finn said investigators have told her that published ac­counts reporting how many people have come forward are inaccurate and they are not dis­closing their internal figures. 
Some plaintiffs’ lawyers are starting to advertise on their websites for potential Sandusky victims, vowing to get justice. Jeff Anderson, a St. Paul, Minn., attorney, has long represented clergy abuse victims and told The Associated Press that he has been retained by several people he de­scribed as Sandusky victims. 

“There’s a great deal of fury and confusion,” particularly be­cause Sandusky is free on bail, Anderson said. “Getting (them) help and cooperating with law enforcement is our first priority.” 
The “time for reckoning,” in the form of civil lawsuits, will come later, Anderson said. 
Anderson declined to say whether his clients are among the eight boys who were labeled as victims in the grand jury report. 
Berks County lawyer Jay Abramowitch, who has represent­ed about 150 child sex victims, many of them in clergy abuse cas­es, said he is following the Penn State case closely. He declined to say if he was representing any­one accusing Sandusky of abuse. 
“The real significance of what happened in the Sandusky situa­tion is that people are beginning to understand the cover-up that goes on in any structural organi­zation that employs a pedophile,” he said. “And that’s why these pedophiles are running wild.” 
“What’s the answer? One of the answers is to allow these victims the right to go to court and file suit against not only the pedophile but the group that employed them ... and didn’t do anything,” Abramowitch said. 
Abramowitch long fought to get around the legal time limit for victims to sue the Roman Catholic Church for decades-old abuse. In 2005, the Pennsylva­nia Supreme Court rejected his argument that the suits should go through on grounds the church had concealed the abuse. 
In State College, Penn State an­nounced a physician and mem­ber of its board of trustees who played football and wrestled for the school would serve as act­ing athletic director. The school named Dr. David M. Joyner, an orthopedic surgeon who special­izes in sports medicine and a business consultant, as the inter­im replacement for Tim Curley. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL The Gettysburg Address: Now we are engaged in a great But, in a larger sense, we can not civil war, testing whether that dedicate -- we can not consecrate that from these honored dead we 
nation, or any nation so conceived -- we can not hallow -- this It is for us the living, rather, to be take increased devotion to that 
and so dedicated, can long ground. The brave men, living and dedicated here to the unfinished cause for which they gave the last UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t endure. We are met on a great dead, who struggled here, have work which they who fought full measure of devotion -- that we go it alone. Notre Dame has many Four score and seven years ago battle-field of that war. We have consecrated it, far above our poor here have thus far so nobly here highly resolve that these dead resources in place to assist you. our fathers brought forth on this come to dedicate a portion of that power to add or detract. advanced. It is rather for us to be shall not have died in vain -- that If you or someone you love needs continent, a new nation, conceived field, as a final resting place for here dedicated to the great task this nation, under God, shall have confidential support or assistance, in Liberty, and dedicated to those who here gave their lives The world will little note, nor long remaining before us --a new birth of freedom -- and that please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 the proposition that all men are that that nation might live. It is remember what we say here, but government of the people, by the or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more created equal. altogether fitting and proper that it can never forget what they did people, for the people, shall not information, visit ND’s website at: we should do this. here. perish from the earth. 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

page 11 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, November 17, 2011 
NASCAR 



Johnson disappointed with Sprint Cup finish 

Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Just a few weeks after winning his first NASCAR championship, Jimmie Johnson was goofing around with his friends when he decided to climb atop a golf cart during a charity event. As he pretended to surf, Johnson fell off the cart and broke his wrist. 
Concerned that such a silly inci­dent could tarnish his reputation, or anger his team and sponsors, he lied about the circumstances of the accident. 
Of course, the truth eventually came out, and Johnson was even more embarrassed. 
So began a journey of personal growth and maturation for one of NASCAR’s greatest drivers. For some athletes, that means ton­ing down the nightlife and focus­ing on the job. For Johnson, it’s been more about balancing the two sides of personality — the talented, super ambitious driver and the guy who likes to have a good time. 
In the early morning after his fourth championship, Johnson was found asleep on the curb outside his South Beach hotel when the car service arrived to take him to what ended up being a grueling day of media appear­ances for a hungover champion. 
The next year, his first as a fa­ther, he rolled his pants legs up and stood in the sand and surf surrounded by his five champion­ship trophies in a quiet moment of reflection at sunrise. 
There won’t be such a celebra­tion for Johnson this year. His record run of five consecutive championships came to an end with a whimper last weekend at Phoenix, where he crossed the finish line in 14th and was math­ematically eliminated from title contention. Sunday will mark the first time since the Chase for the Sprint Cup championship format began in 2004 that Johnson won’t be eligible to win the title heading into the season finale at Home-stead-Miami Speedway. 
“I’m definitely disappointed, but that’s motor sports,” Johnson said. “It’s a very tough business. What we did over the last five years was absolutely spectacu­lar. Being on top for as long as we have been takes a lot of effort to maintain that. 
“It just takes a lot out of you. So this will be a nice winter to unplug and relax and dissect the different areas of the race team and come back stronger.” 
Nobody has been stronger the last five years — more, maybe, if you go back to 2003, when he finished second in the final points standings. 
He won eight races in 2004, the first year of the Chase, and fin­ished eight points behind champi­on Kurt Busch. The next year, he went to Homestead ranked sec­ond and with leader Tony Stewart in reach, only to crash out of the race with a tire issue and finish a distant fifth in the final stand­ings. 
Johnson left Homestead pos­sessed. 
“The pressure I put on myself to win a championship was so great, it was like life or death in 2006,” Johnson said. “I watched two great opportunities pass me by in ‘04 and ‘05, and I wasn’t sure I was going to get another chance at a championship. So it was really like life or death for me in ‘06. Then when I won one, then came trying to chill out a little bit and learn to enjoy racing and enjoy the challenges and learn­ing how to be more confident and comfortable in my own skin.” 
He’s the first to admit it’s not been an easy road. 
Johnson, a 35-year-old Califor­nian, worked his entire life trying to wow sponsors into giving him the money he needed to pursue a racing career. It required him to be buttoned-up, the consummate professional and constant sales­man. It left him guarded, and for a long time didn’t help him get the on-track success he craved. 
He was collecting a paycheck, but he didn’t start picking up wins until he signed with Hendrick Mo­torsports in late 2001. Even with that big break, Johnson kept a clear distinction between work and play that created the stereo­type of a “plain, vanilla driver.” 
Here we are now, five cham­pionships, 55 victories and more than $108 million in purse win­nings, and Johnson is that guy sparring with hateful fans on Twitter and unafraid to speak his mind. 
“The last five years, from a pro­fessional standpoint, the biggest thing has just been the confidence I now have in my own shoes,” he said. “The race track has always been who I am, and I spent the majority of my life as like a “B’’ or “C’’ driver. You don’t build a lot of confidence being a mid-packer. 
“So being able to prove to my­self, to our industry, what I’m ca­pable of, it’s helped me gain a lot of confidence in myself, in my role in the sport and how I fit into the sport. It’s also allowed me to have a lot more fun.” 
Yet it’s still a struggle some­times, evidenced last month when Johnson said IndyCar should not be racing on ovals in the wake of two-time Indianapolis 500 win­ner Dan Wheldon’s death. He meant high-banked ovals, but because he wasn’t clear, and be­cause he’s currently the face of motorsports, his words spread throughout the industry and drew heavy criticism from some racing icons. 
“That was a really tough week for me. I was only speaking out of concern for my friends in the sport, and boy, did it get turned around,” he said. “It’s so conflict­ing at times because, sometimes, I’ll say or do something and it will go unnoticed. At times my success is criticized, at times my focus is criticized, and there’s all these mixed signals and you never know where the masses are because it’s always moving around. 
“Maybe because I’ve always been so far in my head about be­ing concerned about what I’ve said, that, I didn’t notice how it could blow up. And as I’ve re­laxed a lot more and learned to be comfortable speaking my opinion 
—
 I feel I’ve earned the right to speak my opinion — you still get these eye-opening moments that are like ‘Whoa, that really back­fired!’” 

Johnson goes into Homestead ranked fifth in the standings, and when Sunday’s race concludes, ei­ther Carl Edwards or Tony Stew­art will officially end his reign. He’s motivated to move up in the standings — Johnson has never finished lower than fifth in points 

—
 and he’s anxious to sit down with crew chief Chad Knaus to figure out how they can get back to the top of NASCAR. 



page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, November 17, 2011 

FIFA 


Blatter addresses anger over interview 
Associated Press 
GENEVA — Sepp Blatter faced a wave of angry criticism Wednesday after the FIFA pres­ident downplayed the problem of racist abuse on the pitch and said players involved in such spats should settle the issue with a handshake. 
The comments in a TV inter­view sparked a furious back­lash in England, where two top players are being investigated for racially insulting opponents during recent Premier League games. Blatter quickly issued a statement saying he had been “misunderstood,” but by then he had already drawn heavy condemnation from players and pundits in Britain. 
Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand — whose broth­er Anton was the target of an alleged slur by England captain John Terry — was one of the most outspoken critics, saying on Twitter that he was “aston­ished” by Blatter’s comments. 
“Sepp Blatter your comments on racism are so condescend­ing its almost laughable. If fans shout racist chants but shake our hands is that ok?” Ferdinand wrote. “I feel stupid for thinking that football was taking a leading role against racism.....it seems it was just on mute for a while.” 
In an in­terview with 

“I am committed to on 
broadcaster field of play,” 
fighting this plague and 
Al -Jazeera, he wrote. 
Blatter said kicking it out of football.” “This does not football has mean that, in no problem Sepp Blatter general, there with racism is racism on 
FIFA president 
and down­played the recent allega­tions of abuse on the field. He said comments are often made in anger dur­ing games but then “forgotten” after the final whistle. Blat­ter went on to suggest that if league officials have to deal with an issue or complaint then they should “bring two people together and say ‘Shake hands.’” 
The comments come on the same day that Liverpool for­ward Luis Suarez was charged by the English Football Asso­ciation with racially abusing Manchester United defender Patrice Evra, who is black. 
Evra told French TV that Su­arez used a racist slur “at least 10 times” during United’s 1-1 draw at Liverpool in the Pre­mier League. 
Liverpool said Suarez will plead not guilty and insisted that the club is “fully support­ive of Luis in this matter.” 
Terry has said his comments were taken out of context, but is being investigated by the FA and London police. 
Gordon Taylor, the chief ex­ecutive of England’s players’ union, said Blatter’s comments were “insensitive and inappro­priate at this time.” 
“It’s ironic that Sepp Blat­ter should come out and talk like that because we’ve worked hard to get FIFA to have anti-racism on the agenda,” Taylor said. “As the president of FIFA he’s got to be shouting from the top of the hills that it’s unac­ceptable on the pitch. We want players to set an example to the rest of the world and particu­larly the supporters.” 
Seeking to calm a growing furor, Blatter issued a state­ment to try to clarify his com­ments, saying he is taking rac­ism seriously. 
“I am committed to fighting this plague and kicking it out of football,” Blatter said. “What I wanted to express is that, as football players, during a match, you have ‘battles’ with your opponents, and some­times things are done which are wrong. 
“But, normally, at the end of the match, you apologize to your opponent if you had a con­frontation during the match, you shake hands, and when the game is over, it is over.” 
The statement was posted on FIFA’s website underneath a picture from 2009 of Blat­ter embracing Tokyo Sexwale, a black South African govern­ment minister and former Rob­ben Island prisoner. 
The FIFA president had ear­lier turned to Twitter trying to calm the growing anger in England. 
“Racism and discrimina­tion of any kind have no place in football,” Blatter wrote. “I have said this many times be­fore, and I will say it again and again.” 
“However, - and it is not an excuse - sometimes, in the heat 
of the mo­
ment, things 
are said and 
done the 
the field of 
play.” 
Despite 
backtracking, Blatter still faced renewed calls for his resignation in Britain — where he was already unpopu­lar following allegations of cor­ruption within FIFA in relation to England’s failed bid to host the 2018 World Cup. 
“Blatter needs to apologize at the very least, resign at the very best,” wrote Daily Tele­graph columnist Henry Winter. 
In the interview with Al-Jazeera, Blatter sought to de­fuse suggestions that racism and discrimination were prob­lems in world football. 
“During a match you may make a movement towards somebody or you may say something to somebody who is not exactly looking like you, but at the end of the day it is for­gotten,” Blatter insisted. “Rac­ism is if there are spectators or, outside the field of play, there are movements to discrimina­tion, but, on the field of play, I deny that there is racism.” 
However, in further evidence that suggests racism persists in football stadiums, UEFA will on Thursday prosecute a case in which England was the vic­tim of alleged discrimination. 
The Bulgarian football feder­ation has been charged after its fans allegedly directed verbal abuse at England players dur­ing a European Championship qualifier in Sofia in September. 
English anti-racism group Kick It Out said Blatter’s com­ments “don’t help in the ulti­mate goal of kicking racism out football and making it a dis­crimination free zone.” 
MLB 



Future of Astros in NL uncertain 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON  — Major League Baseball told Houston busi­nessman Jim Crane it would not approve his purchase of the Astros unless he agreed to move the team to the Ameri­can League, The Associated Press has learned. 
Crane was forced to agree to move the sale along, a per­son familiar with the nego­tiations said Wednesday on condition of anonymity be­cause no official announce­ment has been made by MLB or the Astros. Approval of the sale could be announced as early as Thursday at a meet­ing of baseball executives in Milwaukee. 
Crane reportedly agreed to the move in exchange for a drop in the sales price valued earlier this year at $680 mil­lion. The person who spoke to the AP could not confirm the sales price. 
The MLB Players Asso­ciation believes two 15-team leagues would create a more proportionate schedule and has urged baseball to make the switch. With schedules for next season already complet­ed, the earliest such a move could take place is 2013. 
Time is running out for ap­proval of the deal: Crane has said that his offer, which was announced on May 16 expires Nov. 30. 
An MLB spokesman did not immediately return messages seeking comment, though Commissioner Bud Selig ad­dressed an Astros’ move dur­ing a Twitter chat on Monday. 
“For 15/15 realignment, Houston would be the team moving to AL West. Would create more fairness in baseball,” Selig tweeted via the Colorado Rock­ies Twitter feed. He also added that “15 teams in each league would necessitate interleague play every day but it will be bet­ter schedule overall.” 

The Astros currently play in the six-team NL Central. The AL West is the only league in the majors with four teams (Rang­ers, Angels, Athletics and Mari­ners). 
The Astros would be in a di­vision with in-state rival Texas. But fans are unhappy that the other three teams are all on the West Coast, meaning many road games would routinely end past midnight Central time. 
Drayton McLane bought the team in November 1992 for about $117 million and put the fran­chise up for sale in November. He turned down an offer from Crane to buy the team in 2008. 
The $680 million sale price is the second-highest in major league history, trailing the $845 million purchase of the Chicago Cubs by the Ricketts family two years ago. The $660 million sale of the Boston Red Sox in 2002 currently is second. Like the As­tros’ deal, the Cubs and Red Sox transactions included related en­tities. 
A major selling point in Hous­ton was the Astros’ share in a new deal with the NBA’s Hous­ton Rockets to create a regional sports network that will begin airing Rockets games in 2012 and the Astros in 2013. Crane has said the team’s 30-year lease at Minute Maid Park, which is owned by the Harris County Houston Sports Authority, will remain intact under his owner­ship. 
Crane, who founded a Hous­ton-based logistics company in 2008, is also the chairman and chief executive of Crane Capital, a private equity fund company. In 2009, he was in the running to buy the Cubs and last summer teamed with Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban in an un­successful bid to buy the Texas Rangers. 


Thursday, November 17, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 


Mathews 
continued from page 16 
“Obviously we have to contin­ue working day in and day out to achieve those goals,” Mathews said. “We need to come to prac­tice and give it everything we can. It’s the little things that are going to lead us to our ultimate goals for the team.” 
As her Irish career comes to an end, so does Mathews’ ca-
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Sophomore guard Jerian Grant drives to the hoop for the Irish in their 74-41 win over Sam Houston State in the JACC. 
percent shooting while forcing 18 turnovers. The Irish took ad­vantage of Sam Houston State’s sloppy play with 25 points off turnovers. 
Sophomore guard Jerian Grant provided a second half spark for the Irish, scoring 11 of his 17 points in the final period on six-for-six shooting. Mean­while, the Irish bench added 33 points for the game, led by Con­naughton. 
“Coming in, I didn’t expect to do this my second or third game. Then again, playing with my teammates, they really believed that I could do it,” Connaughton said. “Nothing really [surprises me] because the guys I practice against every day are some of the best players in the country. And playing [a game] is just an­other day of work.” 
The freshman showed off his athleticism in his breakout performance, finishing a two­on-two fast break with a slam-dunk after Grant slipped him a behind-the-back pass with 3:38 left in the game. One minute lat­er, Grant electrified the crowd with a thunderous slam-dunk after a full-court pass from ju­nior forward Mike Broghammer. 
Senior forward Marcus James led the way for Sam Houston State with 16 points and eight rebounds, but it wasn’t enough for the struggling Bearkats as the Irish extended their home winning streak to 22 games. 
The Irish will take on Dela­ware State this Friday before heading to Kansas City on Mon­day for the CBE Classic semifinal game against Missouri. 

Contact Andrew Gastelum at agestel1@nd.edu 
reer as a com­petitive tennis player. 
“I’ve been playing tennis since I was 8 or 9,” Mathews said. “I’ve been doing it for so long and it’s been such a huge part of my 

“I’m not going to hang up the racket forever, but I definitely won’t be playing as competitively as in the past.” 
Shannon Mathews 
Irish senior captain 
well and we’re working so hard day in and day out for the same goals.” 
In prepara­tion for her fi­nal campaign, 
Mathews  re­ 
flected  on  her  
experience  at  

Notre Dame. 
life that it’s sad that it’s kind of coming to an end, but that just makes me want to work even harder and end my time at Notre Dame and my chapter of really competitive tennis in my life on a really good note.” 
Next year, Mathews will work as a financial services consul­tant in Chicago, but said she has no intention of giving up tennis completely. 
“I’m not going to hang up the racket forever, but I definitely won’t be playing as competitive­ly as in the past,” Mathews said. “Moving forward, tennis will be in my future, just in a different way than it has in the past.” 
Mathews said that she will es­pecially miss the team aspect of collegiate tennis. 
“Growing up, tennis is really individual,” Mathews said. “It’s mostly singles and you’re kind of on your own. Coming to college is just such an amazing experi­ence, having seven other girls on the team. We get along so 
According to the senior, it is her bond with her teammates that has been the most rewarding part of her college career. 
“Building those amazing rela­tionships that I’ve had has been amazing,” Mathews said. “I still keep in contact with teammates who are doing things all over the country. Those relationships have been so special to me.” 


Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Brey 
continued from page 16 

into early foul trouble when junior forward and leading-scorer Steven Werner com­mitted three fouls within the first two minutes of the game. Coming into the contest, Wer­ner was averaging 20 points and 16 rebounds per game. Thanks to the three early fouls though, the junior was replaced by freshman center Michael Holyfield, who picked up four fouls of his own in the first half. 
After Sam Houston State cut the Notre Dame lead to one with eight-and-a-half minutes left in the first half, the Irish went on a 23-2 run to end the half, including an eight-minute stretch in which they did not allow a single point. 
“I hope [the team is taking on a defensive role],” Brey said. “We have certainly talk­ed about that. Through today, [the question is] whether we can be mature to rely on our defense when the offensive stuff isn’t going great. I would like us to really embrace that.” 
From the tip-off, the Irish cracked down defensively, holding the Bearkats to 34 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 



Scarlet Knights defeat BC, Maryland rolls over Towson 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY, N.J.  — Khadi­jah Rushdan and Monique Oli­ver each scored 15 points to help No. 15 Rutgers beat Boston College 74-58 on Wednesday night. Rutgers extended its lead to ian Stringer had five freshmen 

The Scarlet Knights (2-0) 20-6 midway through the first on the floor for most of the run. jumped out to a 13-2 lead, a half as Boston College missed After a timeout, the Hall of run capped by a 3-pointer from 12 of its first 13 shots. Tiffany Fame coach put her upperclass-Erica Wheeler. Kristen Doherty Ruffin scored five points during men back in and the Scarlet hit the Eagles’ (1-1) first basket a 7-0 run that pulled the Eagles Knights went on a 16-2 run over a minute later. to 20-13. Rutgers coach C. Viv-the next 4 minutes to regain control. Rutgers led by 17 at the half and BC could only get within five the rest of the game. 
Rutgers’ talented freshmen class continues to impress early in the season. Betnijah Laney, Briyona Canty and Syessence Davis all fueled the late run in the first half. They scored 10 straight points, including back-to-back layups by Canty. The group has provided energy, enthusiasm and, most impor­tantly, depth. Laney followed her 18-point debut with nine on Wednesday night. 
Trailing 45-26, the Eagles rallied behind Katie Zenevitch. The sophomore forward scored 11 points during a 17-6 burst, including a 3-pointer. Deidra Smith’s layup with 8:33 left cut Rutgers’ lead to 51-46. 
Rushdan answered with a 3-pointer on the other end, ig­niting a 12-2 run to put the game away. 
Zenevitch finished with a ca-reer-high 15 points, while Tessa Holt added 12 for Boston Col­lege, which beat Fairleigh Dick­inson in its opener. 



Maryland 82, Towson 46 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. — Freshman Brene Moseley scored 26 points, Laurin Mincy had 15 and No. 10 Maryland dominated in-state foe Towson on both ends of the court in an 82-46 victory Wednesday night. 
The Terrapins (3-0) shot 58 percent from the field, limited the Tigers to 27 percent shoot­ing and finished with a 48-30 rebounding advantage. Mary­land used a 16-point run to take a 39-15 lead with five minutes left in the first half and coasted to the finish. 
Moseley, a 5-foot-7 guard, went 10 for 15 from the floor and made all five of her free throws. Moseley missed her entire se­nior season in high school after tearing a ligament in her right knee, and although she wears a brace on the court, it’s apparent she’s made a full recovery. 
Alyssa Thomas scored 14 points for the Terrapins, who showed no sign of a letdown af­ter Sunday’s 72-53 rout of then-No. 10 Georgetown. 
Deree Fooks and Nyree Wil­liams each scored eight points for Towson (1-1). The Tigers beat Maryland in 2009, but lost to the Terrapins 74-42 last sea­son and are 0-9 in College Park. 
Despite committing turnovers on its first two possessions, Towson kept it close for nearly six minutes. Maryland then used successive 3-pointers by Moseley and Mincy to go up 13­7, and minutes later Kim Rodg­ers connected from beyond the arc to push the margin to 10. 
It was 23-15 before the Terra­pins rattled off 16 consecutive points, a burst that included a pair of 3-pointers by Moseley and two baskets by Thomas. At that point, Maryland was 15 for 24 from the floor, including 6 for 8 from long range. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, November 17, 2011 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Irish sophomore goalie Steven Summerhays protects the net in Notre Dame’s 5-4 home win over Alaska on Friday. 


Johnson 
continued from page 16 
good, healthy relationship. This weekend he played great and I was rooting him on, and he was rooting me on Tuesday. We have a really good relationship and I think that’s a lot better than oth­er goalies you hear about that might not like each other.” 
With the success the pair has been having, Jackson has been left with a tough decision on who to start this Friday in a crucial matchup against No. 3 Boston College. 
“I think [Summerhays] de­serves another start, it’s just a matter of when it’s going to be,” Jackson said. “I always evaluate based on practice performance and game performance. It’s kind of a last-minute decision for me. I don’t know [who will start] yet. I may start against BC.” 
And while it’s doubtful that Jackson will call his own num­ber on Friday, Summerhays ex­pects the start to go to Johnson, but remains ready for an oppor­tunity at any time. 
“I think [the situation with] me and Johnson is unique be­cause not every college has two guys who could probably start, whereas here I think we both know we’re both capable of starting, so I think that comple­tion between us pushes us to be better every day,” he said. “So I want to be in that position, given the opportunity and chance to show the team and this school and everyone that I can be the starting guy.” 
Regardless of who earns the start on Friday though, both goaltenders will need to be on their game to shut down the high-flying Eagles attack. 
“Their forwards are probably the most talented in the nation,” Summerhays said. “It’s going to be a really offensive game, so we’re going to have to shut their top line down and that comes with good defensive play, special teams and of course goaltend­ing. We’ve got to be at our best.” 
The Irish will return to the ice Friday against Boston Col­lege. The puck will drop at the Compton Family Ice Arena at 
7:35p.m. 

Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 





Wright 
continued from page 16 
Wright and Peters will be to lead the Irish as they try to put forth a strong defensive performance against Hartford (2-0) and lock down junior forward Ruthanne Doherty, McGraw said. In the Hawks’ 54-45 victory over Long Island in the tournament’s sec­ond round, Doherty poured in 18 points and swallowed up 12 rebounds for a double-double of her own. 
“She’s a really good player,” McGraw said of Doherty. “I think she is a matchup chal­lenge for us because she’s got good size, and yet she plays like a guard and she’s a really good shooter and she can do so many things. That’s a challenge that we worked on a little bit [in practice], but we are going to need a lot of really good team defense.” 
The Irish have had success on the defensive end thus far, piling up 54 steals and holding their opponents to just .370 shooting over the last two games. 
In the tournament’s other semifinal game, No. 1 Baylor (2-0) hosts No. 22 UCLA (2-0) tonight at 8 p.m. The champion­ship game will be played Sun­day to determine the 2011 Pre­season WNIT champion. 
For the Irish, the preseason tournament creates an atmo­sphere that can provide more immediate goals and increase motivation and focus, McGraw said. She also noted that the tournament gives Notre Dame a small taste for the postseason NCAA tournament. 
“I think that starting off with a tournament does give you a little more motivation early in the season, that there is some tangible reward after the game 
— that you would get to ad­vance,” she said. “So it is simi­lar to the NCAA tournament in that way.” 
Notre Dame will try to im­prove to 3-0 and advance to the tournament semifinals when the team tips off its semifinal contest with Hartford at 7 p.m. today in the Purcell Pavilion. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 17, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


HENRy ARNOLD 

JON REPINE 

EXPND 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, November 17, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 







Rise and shine 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
With sophomore point guard Eric Atkins and fifth-year for­ward Tim Abromaitis out, Notre Dame got an unexpected boost from freshman guard Pat Con­naughton’s 24 points en route to a 74-41 victory over Sam Hous­ton State in the Progressive CBE Classic regional round Wednes­day night. 
Atkins, Notre Dame’s lead­ing scorer, didn’t even make the Irish bench because he was sick with the flu, while junior guard Joey Brooks left the game near the end of the first half with flu-like symptoms. With the four-game suspension of Abromaitis due to eligibility issues, this left the Irish with just eight players. 
“I was nervous coming into the game [with two starters out],” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “I had Big East butterflies. I don’t know my team yet. It is kind of fun and exciting to try and figure it out. I told them the first day, ‘We are going to need all of you to play and get a part of it.’ As you get further into the season, that can all change at some point but for right now, I want all of those guys’ heads good because you don’t know where things are going to go. And they have been good so far.” 
Connaughton rose to the occa­sion, scoring 17 of his 24 points on five 3-pointers in the first half. With 3:54 remaining in the first, the freshman brought the crowd to its feet when his back-to-back 3-pointers led to his eighth-straight point for the Irish. 
“To be honest [attacking the basket] is usually what my game is,” Connaughton said. “Coach Brey always tells me when I am open to shoot it and not worry about it. That’s what I did tonight and that is just how it worked out. [The first 3-pointer] is a con­fidence builder. When you hit the first one and then hit the second one, it [becomes], ‘Okay we are just playing basketball.’” 
Meanwhile the Bearkats got 


see BREY/page 13 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Freshman guard Pat Connaughton elevates for a jumper in Notre Dame’s 74-41 win over Sam Houston State on Wednesday. Connaughton led the Irish with 24 points on the night. 

HOCKEY 

Two goaltenders vie for net time, thrive on competition 
By JACK HEFFERON stopped their team admirably so that the competition between back up. son bounced right back with Sports Writer far this year. Johnson and Summerhays “The defense did a good job a midweek win over Western The tandem has been a big wasn’t as close as he had hoped, letting me see the shots,” Sum-Michigan. Johnson said he was It is a problem with no solu-reason why No. 4 Notre Dame (8-as Johnson led the team through merhays said. “And coming in pushed to be his best because of tion, or it is no problem at all 2-2, 6-1-2 CCHA) has won its past five games without defeat. Af-cold, you want to be able to take Summerhays’ performance, and depending on your point of view. three games and is unbeaten in ter surrendering four goals in a the first couple of shots nice and that the competition is good for 
The dilemma for Irish coach its last eight. For a team looking chaotic opening period against easy and play your game and get both of them and the team. Jeff Jackson is how to fit two to improve upon their Frozen Alaska though, Jackson sent in settled into the game like that, “We push each other every very talented goaltenders into a Four appearance last year, opti-Summerhays, who shut out the that had been so high-scoring. day in practice to get better, but crease that holds only one at a mizing the production out of the Nanooks the rest of the way to So they did a good job letting me at the same time we both want time. Both junior Mike Johnson goaltender position may be the earn the 5-4 victory. Summer-settle in that game, and I think the best for each other,” John-and sophomore Steven Summer-extra push the Irish need. hays earned the start and the the confidence I gained there son said. “So I think it’s a really hays have made big saves, post-As recently as two and a half victory the next night, and the carried into the next night.” ed requisite numbers and back-weeks ago, Jackson commented competition appeared to tighten On Tuesday though, John-see JOHNSON/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish head into semifinal game 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After securing one of the big­gest margins of victory in school history their last time out, the Irish will retake the court in the semifinals of the Preseason WNIT against Hartford tonight. 
No. 2 Notre Dame (2-0) enters the contest having rolled to a 99­34 victory over Indiana State on Sunday in a performance that relied on contributions from a variety of sources. Six play­ers scored in double figures for the Irish as the team’s offensive depth was on full display, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
“I think we are much harder to guard when we have a team [comprised of players] that can all really score. We have great balance in our offense,” Mc­Graw said. “I don’t think I would be surprised if anybody was the leading scorer of the starting five, or really even the top six. I think everybody is capable of a big game, but we are a really 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Mathews looks for strong career finish 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
For senior captain Shan­non Mathews, her final sea­son at Notre Dame means the culmination of a lifetime of competitive tennis and the chance to leave it all on the court. 
Mathews is one of two Irish seniors on the team, the oth­er being doubles partner and fellow captain Kristy Frill­ing. Frilling and Mathews have been teammates for the last four years and, entering their final season, are look­ing to make their mark on the University. 
“Going into our senior year, we definitely want to put everything out there,” Mathews said. “It’s our last spring season and it’s our last season playing for Notre Dame, and both of us are going to put our heart and soul into every match every time we’re on the court.” 

Mathews, who has received All-Big East honors in each of her years at Notre Dame, is ea­ger to keep up her streak of suc­cess. The Irish have won the Big East Championship every year that Mathews and Frilling have been a part of the team, and Mathews said she plans on con­tinuing that streak. 
“We would love to win an­other Big East Championship,” Mathews said. “Our ultimate goal is to bring home a national championship for Notre Dame.” 
As the Irish enter the win­ter off-season, Mathews said the focus will be maintaining the squad’s work ethic and off-court conditioning. 

see MATHEWS/page 13 


unselfish team right now and that makes us a lot harder to guard.” 
The Irish were led in the scor­ing column by sophomore guard Kayla McBride’s 16 points Sun­day, but junior guard Skylar Dig-gins, graduate student forward Devereaux Peters and freshman forward Markisha Wright each contributed 14 points. Wright added 11 rebounds to notch a double-double for the night. 

Tonight, the primary task for 
see WRIGHT/page 14 



