the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University integrates sustainability into academics 
MBAprogram listed as one of nation’s top 16 for “green” industries 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame prides itself on its top-ranked undergraduate programs in the Mendoza College of Business, but the University has more than just its programs to be proud of — the sustainable reputation of the College’s MBA program has also grabbed nation-wide attention. 
In its April article “A Sustainable Degree,” Entrepreneur magazine listed Notre Dame among 16 of the nation’s top business schools for MBA students seeking careers in “green” industries. 
The magazine selected MBA programs based on a survey of administrators and students at 325 graduate schools of busi­ness during the 2009-10 school year, Director of MBA Admissions Brian Lohr said. 
“Even though this is a listing, not a ranking, of graduate business schools, our selection means that we are one of the 
see GREEN /page 6 




ND creates two new environmental minors for fall 2011 semester 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
In response to students’ growing concern over environmental issues, the University announced the creation two new minors, Energy Studies and Sustainability, each of which will be offered to all undergraduate students beginning in the fall of 2011. 
Rebecca Hicks, research, educa­tion and outreach program man­ager for the Notre Dame Sustainable Energy Initiative (SEI), will oversee the Energy Studies minor. Assistant research profes­sor of biological sciences Maria Miglietta will serve as the director of the Sustainability minor. 
Hicks said the Energy Studies minor was developed by a com­mittee of students and faculty members who conducted a survey of student interest and determined what courses would be appropri­ate for the minor. 
“After examining all of this infor­mation, they concluded the minor should be open to all students on campus,” she said. “It will have 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | The Observer 
see MINORS/page 5 



Students split on Mac vs. PC 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Sophomore couple Colin Slaggert and Jill Giunco only disagree about one thing: their computers. Giunco prefers her Mac to past com­puters, while Slaggert has always favored a PC. 
“I think Macs are confus­ing, and I don’t know how to find anything on them,” Slaggert said. “Also, I like how you can right-click [on a PC].” 
But which computer is more popular at Notre Dame? 
Jonathan Hall, manager of the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) Computer Store and Service Center, said the answer is not com­pletely clear. Although the store tends to sell more Macs to students, OIT’s Service Center repairs many more PCs than Macs. 
“I think the reason we do see a higher percentage of Mac sales is that there is an academic discount on the Mac product versus buying through Apple,” Hall said. “You save money going through your educational institution.” 

Hall said the store sells a majority of their new com­puters to incoming freshmen during the back-to-school period. Apple offers incen­tives to students purchasing Macs during this time, like 

see MAC/page 6 


ND names honorary degree recipients 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame will award 12 hon­orary degrees at this year’s Commencement, in addition to the honorary degree it will give com­mencement speaker Robert M. Gates, the University announced Tuesday. 
Gates, the U.S. secretary of defense, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. The other recipients will be honored with degrees in law, science and engi­neering. 
Charles F. Lennon, associate vice president for University relations, will receive a doctor of laws degree before he retires in June. Lennon served the University for over 30 years as the executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Under his leadership, the association grew from 151 to 276 alumni clubs around the world. 
Lou Holtz, famed Irish football coach from 1986 to 1996, will be awarded a doctor of laws degree. 
Holtz led Notre Dame to the 1988 national championship and is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame. On three occasions during his tenure as coach, Notre Dame held the highest graduation rate among Division I-A football programs. An active philanthro­pist, Holtz works with the Touching Tiny Lives Foundation and the Women’s Care Center of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
The University will also award Shirin Ebadi, recipient of the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize, an honorary doctor of laws degree. As an Iranian lawyer and the first woman justice in the history of the Iranian judicial system, Ebadi founded the Defenders of Human Rights Center in Iran. She received the Nobel Peace Prize for her sig­nificant and pioneering efforts for democracy and human rights for women, children and refugees. 
Michael J. Brennan, a leading 
see STAFF/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor receives grant for research page 3  How interesting is your ND experience? page 12  Women’s basketball page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S THE WEIRDEST FOOD YOU’VE EVER EATEN?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITOR: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kristen Durbin Andrew Owens Melissa Flanagan Megan Finneran Marisa Iati Megan Golden 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Megan Kozak 
OFFBEAT 
Criminal feigns femininity to get mattress 
BOISE, Idaho — A Montana man who mim­icked a female voice is exchanging his ill-gotten Tempur-Pedic mattress for a cot in a federal prison. 
The U.S. attorney's office in Idaho says 60­year-old Ricky Vaughn Barry of Hamilton, Mont., was sentenced Wednesday to a year and a day in prison for impersonating his ex-wife when speaking to company representa­tives. 
The calls to open a line of credit and order a $4,000 bed and sheets were recorded. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Mitchell in Boise 

Airi Kobayashi  Long Tran  Lucy Eckard  Pat Mines  Neil O'Dougherty  
junior off  sophomore  junior  junior  sophomore  
campus  Dillon  Ryan  Keenan  Keenan  

“Deep-fried “Duck eggs.” “Cow cheek. “Throw up.” “A whole box frog legs.” Straight off the of Milk Bone head. South dog biscuits.”Africa 2010.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

said the case against the former Coeur d’Alene res­ident developed after his ex-wife pulled her credit report and found accounts used to purchase the bed and a laptop. 
The federal charges did not include the laptop purchase, but both items were sold to help pay just over $7,700 in restitution. 
Boy cries gunfire to cover for ripped pants 
SALT LAKE CITY — Police say a 14-year-old Utah boy was trying to cover up for falling and ripping his new pants when he reported a bullet grazed him. 
South Salt Lake police Sgt. Mikael Wersland told the Salt Lake Tribune that the teen reported the shooting Tuesday evening. Police say about 10 wit­nesses told them they did not hear any gunfire in the area at the time. 
Wersland says the boy “fell down and tore the knee” of his pants, but lied about being grazed by a bullet because he didn't want to get into trouble. The sergeant says the teen only suffered a “scrape where he fell down.” 
The boy has not been identified. It was not immediately known whether he would be charged with any crime. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Today from 12 to 1 p.m. in Geddes Hall Paul Ocobock of the Kellogg Institute will pres­ent a labor research work­shop about colonial Kenya. He will discuss migration, wage labor and working life from 1920 to 1963. 
The TransPose Dance Experience will take place today at 6 p.m. in Stinson-Remick Hall. Dance pieces exploring the effects of 20th and 21st century technology will be performed. The event is free. 
The Notre Dame Student Players will present Joss Whedon's Emmy-Award win­ning online musical sensation Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog Live! tonight at 6 p.m. at the Washington Hall Lab Theater. The show is about an aspiring villain that wants to get into the Evil League of Evil. Tickets are $5. 
Comedian and Notre Dame alumnus Owen Smith will perform at Legends tonight from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. The event is free. Owens has appeared on “Everybody Hates Chris” and “Comedy Central’s Chocolate News.” 
The Notre Dame Creative Writing program is hosting Women Writers Festival Does Nonfiction on Monday and Tuesday. Two women writers will read on Monday at 7:30 
p.m. 
and two women writers will read on Tuesday at 7:30 

p.m. 
Both readings will be in McKenna Hall. The writers will be on a panel on Tuesday at 2 p.m. in 100-104 McKenna Hall. 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight saturday sunday monday tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 

A March 24 article, "Aerospace chair dies at 
50," reported a Mass of remembrance would be celebrated March 25. The correct date for the Mass is April 1. 


38 29 HIGH 3938 4041 
The Observer regrets this error. 


23 22 LOW 2225 2830 













Professor receives grant for new study 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
What makes humans unique? 
This age-old question has gar­nered anthropology professor Agustin Fuentes a $197,000 grant to conduct the Human Natures Project, a study geared toward finding similarities between different disciplines in the discussion on human uniqueness. 
“I’ve realized over the past couple of decades that many different disciplines have differ­ent ways of asking the same questions,” Fuentes said. “My project is to get people to understand the whole picture and push the discussion for­ward with more interaction and 
participants.” 
He said the preliminary effort of the project is to determine whether the disciplines of anthropology, biology, psycholo­gy, philosophy and theology are similar in their perspectives on human nature. The project will focus on taking narrative threads from interdisciplinary conversations and understand­ing how they overlap, Fuentes said. 
“My hypothesis is that there’s space for all of these or parts of all of them to get together,” Fuentes said. “One part of that is, I think, an interface between human evolution, culture and biology.” 
The John Templeton Foundation has pledged to fund Fuentes’s ethnographic investi­gation, and Fuentes said he plans to hire a team of under­graduate, graduate and post­doctoral research students once the grant becomes effective June 1. 
Fuentes said he will spend most of the next year traveling the world to interview individu­als who write about human uniqueness. He said he believes he will uncover more similari­ties through these interviews and discussions than in reading published material on the sub­ject of human nature. 
“Publishing keeps you stuck in a discipline, but talking allows more engagement and flexibili­ty,” Fuentes said. “All these people write books and articles, but what you print isn’t always what you believe.” 
In discussing human nature, behavior and motivation, Fuentes said he believes each discipline finds part of the truth, but still falls short of defining humans as a whole. He com­pared this issue to an old folk­tale about six blindfolded men touching different parts of an elephant. 
A man who touched the ele­phant’s tail thought it was a snake, while another believed its tusk was a spear. Fuentes said their interpretations were not completely wrong, but their conclusions were inaccurate because they were unable to see the whole picture. 
“If you stick a bunch of people around an elephant with blind­folds on, they will think it’s dif­ferent things, and I think this is what’s going on with the differ­ent disciplines,” he said. “My project is trying to take all of the blindfolds off.” 
Fuentes said he hopes to elim­inate shortsightedness between the disciplines by widening the forum of discussion and high­lighting similarities between dif­ferent areas of study. He said Notre Dame is the perfect place to begin the Human Natures Project because the University provides individuals from each of the five disciplines who can help him achieve his goal. 
Fuentes also said the University’s academic reputa­tion and financial connections helped make his project a reali­ty. 
“I’m also really thankful to the John Templeton Foundation for sponsoring this,” Fuentes said. “You propose it and it’s a little adventurous, but at Notre Dame you can receive help to research this.” 
Ultimately, Fuentes said he is not trying to discover what con­stitutes human uniqueness. Instead, he said he hopes to find ways for people to pursue the topic more effectively and begin to think across the disciplines in new ways. 
Most people agree human nature is a relevant and impor­tant topic, Fuentes said. But he said the real question is whether or not people actually agree on what human nature is, how they discuss it and how it contributes to their understand­ing of the world. 
“I think there’s something in human cultures and the mind — how they work and function,” he said. “We have a connection to the world around us and to other animals, but there’s some­thing else that makes humans especially interesting.” 


SMC professor utilizes greenhouse 
By OLIVIA BRACH 
News Writer 

For several years the Saint Mary’s College greenhouse remained a relatively unused campus building, but students and faculty alike have begun using the building more fre­quently over the past two years. 
Rebuilt in 1986, the green­house was mainly used by the Grounds department of the College’s Facilities Operations Division to grow many of the flowers prior to their planting on the Saint Mary’s campus, assistant biology professor Cassie Majetic said. 
But the greenhouse is cur­rently experiencing additional traffic as the home base for Majetic’s research on floral odor. Majetic’s plant subjects occupy roughly half the green­house, while the Grounds department maintains control of the remaining space. 
Majetic, a second-year pro­fessor at the College, is con­ducting research on the scent of flowers and its relationship to other features of flowering plants. She also studies the effects of changes in floral scents on the color of a plant’s flowers by conducting chemical analyses of the plants. 
“In general, I’m interested in what shapes floral scent, both ecologically and evolutionarily,” Majetic said. “I break scents apart to study their chemical characteristics and how they affect other characteristics of the plants.” 
At this point in her research of the phlox family of flowers, Majetic said she has found that the scent of flowers in this group actually affects the color of the flowers. 


Majetic said she also researches the influence of flo­ral odor on the process of polli­nation. She said she examines the preferences of pollinators for certain types of flowers based on their odors and col­ors. 
“For agricultural plants that rely on pollinators, these pref­erences can mean the differ­ence between success of a crop and failure,” Majetic said. “If a pollinator prefers one plant over another, you could eventu­ally lose a whole plant species.” 
In order to facilitate her ongoing research, Majetic said she has worked very hard to bring about restorations to the greenhouse. The most impor­tant of these proposed changes was the development of a func­tional means of regulating the greenhouse temperature, she said. 
The greenhouse now has a swamp cooler, a device that pumps well water into the building and also helps to cool the greenhouse during the hot summer months, Majetic said. 

Although current student use of the greenhouse is relatively minimal, Majetic said she hopes that trend will change in the future. She said she has recent­ly begun working with two Saint Mary’s students, including junior Brittany Sinka, who assist her with various aspects of her research projects. 
In the future, Majetic hopes to actively incorporate the use of the greenhouse into new class-related projects. 
Contact Olivia Brach at obrach01@saintmarys.edu 


Get in the Game! 
Earn a full 1% Cash Back on every purchase you make, no restrictions, no exceptions. 
Apply Today! 

H 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR). 1% cash back is paid out annually in January and is not applicable for cash advances or balance transfers.Not valid on delinquent, over limit, or closed accounts. Independent of the University. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Club discusses immigration 
By MONA RODRIGUEZ 
News Writer 
In support of its Action Week, the La Fuerza club at Saint Mary’s College screened the film “Dying to Live” and initiat­ed discussion on immigration Thursday. 
The film, which was pro­duced by Notre Dame associate professor of theology Fr. Daniel Groody, focused on the hard­ships immigrants to the United States face, La Fuerza presi­dent Brianda Salas said. Groody, who also serves as director of the Center for Latino Spirituality and Culture at Notre Dame, led the discus­sion following the film screen­ing. 
“We decided to get Groody to speak because he’s the produc­er of ‘Dying to Live,’ and his mission is to create awareness about the struggles immigrants face,” La Fuerza vice president Denise Lopez said. 
Salas said Groody’s personal mission relates directly to that of La Fuerza. 
“La Fuerza’s mission is to create awareness about issues that affect our community as a whole,” Salas said. “For that reason, we dedicated ‘Knowledge is power, Action is key,’ as our motto for the week.” 
Salas said the film tied in with the club’s motto in that it followed immigrants as they traveled the treacherous mountains to get to Arizona. The film also highlighted the reasons people choose to make the dangerous journey, espe­cially the financial benefits and the opportunities for a better life. 

“We want people to know there are faces behind immi­gration,” Salas said. 
During the post-film discus­sion, Groody covered various aspects of immigration, from the importance of accurate education to the magnitude of immigration as a social issue. 
“A number as big as the pop­ulation of Brazil is migrating. It’s a huge issue,” Groody said. “To dismiss and disregard migrants not only deprives them, but dehumanizes us.” 
Groody also tried to dispel myths about immigration dur­ing the discussion. 
“The Lou Dobbs and Rush Limbaughs of the world place an emphasis on people’s fears,” Groody said. 
Groody also provided stu­dents with advice as to how students can personally address the issues surrounding immigration. 
“The first thing is education and the need to dispel immi­gration myths,” Groody said. “Advocacy and outreach are two other ways to get involved.” 
Groody said people should have concerned regard for those who are seen as insignifi­cant in society. 
“Anywhere we can recognize the dignity of a human being is the first form of action we can take,” Groody said. 
Junior Arianne Rodriguez said the video and discussion were empowering. 
“I think it’s important to con­stantly remind ourselves of the suffering of other people so we can be their voice,” Rodriguez said. “It’s not about politics, it’s about people.” 
Sophomore Molly Moskwinski said Jessica Wrobleski, visiting assistant professor of religious studies, uses Groody’s book, “Globalization, Spirituality, and Justice,” to facilitate class dis­cussion on Catholic Social Thought. 
“It was great to put a face to the text we’ve been using all year,” Moskwinski said. “Fr. Groody is very well-spoken, and he makes me want to change the world.” 
Salas said La Fuerza was happy with the event’s atten­dance. 
“We are grateful for the sup­port at tonight’s event,” Salas said. “It encouraged great dia­logue for people who want to know the facts and make a change.” 
Contact Mona Rodriguez at mrodri01@saintmarys.edu 

Getting Acquainted with Catholic Charities 


Fr. Larry Snyder, President of Catholic Charities USA will discuss: 
V V -level positions 
Monday, March 28, 2011 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Pizza Provided 
Giovanini Commons, Lower Level Mendoza College of Business 



Staff 
continued from page 1 
pioneer in the field of modern finance, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from the University. Brennan is a professor emeritus of finance at UCLA and the London Business School. His research in financial markets and work in corporate finance signifi­cantly impacted the development of finance as a science. 
John W. Glynn, a 1962 graduate of Notre Dame, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. Glynn is founder and president of Glynn Capital Management, a California venture capital invest­ment firm, and a member of the University’s Board of Trustees. Glynn and his wife endowed a chair in literature at Notre Dame, and their family made a leader­ship gift to expand and fortify the Glynn Family Honors Program through the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science. 
Jacqueline Novogratz will also be awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. Novogratz is the founder and chief executive offi­cer of the Acumen Fund. The Fund, a global nonprofit venture, has invested more than $40 mil­lion in over 35 companies in developing countries. 
Notre Dame will award Bishop Gerald Kicanas an honorary doc­tor of laws degree as well. The bishop of Tucson, Ariz., Kicanas was a past vice president of the 
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. As a proponent of Catholic education, he partnered with Notre Dame’s Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) to estab­lish three ACE Academy schools in the Diocese of Tucson. 
Huguette Labelle, a global leader in anti-corruption efforts, will also receive an honorary doc­tor of laws degree. Labelle chairs the board of Transparency International, an organization that promotes transparency in international politics and busi­ness. She is also a member of the board of the United Nations 
Minors 
continued from page 1 
both a technical track and a non­technical track to meet the needs and interests of as many students as possible.” 
Hicks said the Energy Studies minor is being offered for two key reasons. 
“First, meeting the world’s ener­gy demands in an environmentally responsible fashion is arguably one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century,” she said. “We feel that to meet this challenge, Notre Dame must play a key role in preparing leaders from all disci­plines who understand the com­plexity of it.” 
Stewardship of the earth is an important component of the Catholic faith and provided anoth­er reason to create the minor, Hicks said. 
She said many students have already taken an interest in the Energy Studies minor. 
“We want to be sure those inter­ests are met with a valuable, sys­tematic course of study that will provide key information needed for students to be both well-informed Global Compact, an initiative for businesses to promote standards of human rights, labor, environ­ment and anti-corruption. 
Mary Beth O’Brien will be hon­ored with a doctor of laws degree. O’Brien dedicates herself to the work of the Ladies of Charity USA (LSUSA), the American affiliate of an international organization that responds to the needs of the poor. She served as the president of the organization, a representative to the United Nations for the International Association of Charities, a trustee of Catholic Charities USA and a member of the American Housing Foundation. All six of her children are Notre Dame graduates. 
John C. Mather, a co-recipient of the 2006 Nobel Prize for physics, will be awarded an hon­orary doctor of science degree. He is a senior anthropologist in the Observational Cosmology Laboratory at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center and senior project scientist for the James Webb Space Telescope. Mather received the Nobel Prize along with George Smoot for their development of a satellite project to study the early universe. 
French mathematician Laurent Lafforgue will also receive an honorary doctor of science degree. Lafforgue is a professor at the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques. He received the 2002 Fields Medal, the mathe­matical equivalent of the Nobel Prize. 
The University will award Michael D. Griffin an honorary doctor of engineering degree. From April 2005 to January 2009, Griffin served as the 11th NASA administrator, where he oversaw work on the future of human spaceflight, the fate of the Hubble telescope and the agency’s role in understanding climate change. Since leaving NASA, he joined the faculty in mechanical and aero­space engineering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville. 
Commencement will be cele­brated May 22 in the Notre Dame Stadium. 
citizens and leaders in solving energy challenges,” Hicks said. 
Miglietta said a team of faculty members from various University departments collaborated to devel­op the Sustainability minor. 
“They put their vision into a pro­posal that was approved by the College of Science Council and by the University Academic Council this past fall,” she said. 
Miglietta said students enrolled in the minor will be required to take a gateway course in “Principles of Sustainability” and submit a plan for a capstone expe­rience involving research, service learning or a campus project. 
The minor will prepare students to serve as leaders in their com­munities by making constructive contributions to the development of more sustainable practices, she said. 
“Sustainability implies meeting current human needs in a way that preserves natural capital for future generations,” she said. “One of the greatest challenges we face is thus establishing a new relationship with the environment.” 
Miglietta said she expects that the minor will attract a group of diverse students from all majors with a common interest in environ­mental issues and sustainable development. 
Students interested in both the Energy Studies and Sustainability minors may contact Hicks and Miglietta for more information and to discuss course selection and approval. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


“He said the company is world,” Lohr said. “If we can schools do anything like this, Management, Inc. to develop a attracted to Notre Dame stu-show we’re a leader in that and it’s an innovative part of sustainable process for incor-
Green 

dents because they bring an area, that will impact our continued from page 1 excellent skill applicantpoolin 
set and ethical apositiveway.” best programs in the country business deci-The availabili­forstudentsseekingcareers in sion making to ty of sustainable
“This generation is

sustainable industries,” Lohr the table,” Lohr research oppor­said. said. “They are really in tune with tunitiesalsofac-The selection process took able to consider sustainable, ‘green’ tored into several factors into account, how business practices within Entrepreneur’s including the availability of decisions impact organizations and selection of courses on sustainability and notonlythebot-how they can impact “green” MBA careercenterguidanceforstu-tomlinebutalso programs, Lohr
the world.” 

dents interested in “green” the local com-said. MBA stu­jobs. Notre Dame’s varied munityandecol-dents at Notre
Brian Lohr 

course offerings and career ogy.” Dame have the
MBA Admissions director 

planning resources qualified C o m p a n i e s opportunity to theMBAprogramtobeconsid-value the strong participate in eredforEntrepreneur’slisting, ethical mindset r e s e a r c h Lohrsaid. of Notre Dame through elective 
“We offer courses like Ethics students, especially in relation courses,andseveralprofessors in Finance and Banking, toissuesofsustainability,Lohr are conducting research relat-Sustainability in Business, and said. edtosustainablebusiness. Corporate Citizenship and “What company wouldn’t Assistant professor of Sustainability, all of which want to be part of a relation-Management Corey Angst is relate directly to sustainable ship with Notre Dame?” Lohr currently studying the func­business and industry,” Lohr said.“Theethosofthisplaceis tionality of paperless class-said. “The Career Center also one that people want to be rooms through the use of e-provides stu-aroundbecause readers, Lohr said. Associate dents with we do things professor of Management Matt access to the right way, Bloom and visiting assistant opportunities and we’re ethi-professor of Management Ante in ‘green’ “What company cal in practices Glavas studied the effects of industries and wouldn’t want to be ofbusiness.” workingfor“green”companies to Notre Dame part of a relationship This week, on employee motivation and alumni who with Notre Dame? The Notre Dame jobsatisfaction. work in those contributed to Director of MBA Program
ethos of this place is
fields.” the discourse Initiatives Bill Brennan said
one that people want to
G e n e r a l on sustainable theprogramdistinguishesitself
be around because we
Electric Co., a business by from other MBA programs by
do things the right way,
major “green” hosting a con-offering interterm intensive
and we’re ethical in
i n d u s t r y ference titled, courses to students prior to leader, is the practices of business.” “The U.N. midtermbreakeachsemester. No.1recruiter M i l l e n n i u m These four-day, two-credit of Notre Dame Brian Lohr D e v e l o p m e n t experiential learning courses MBA students. MBA Admissions director Goals: The offer students the opportunity Their current Global Compact to solve real problems for work in devel-and the major corporations in small oping sustain-C o m m o n groups, learn cutting-edge, able energy Good.” Aspects critical skills and apply their technologies ties in with the of the conference focused on time and talents to resolve MBAprogram’srecentlyrecog-sustainability and global citi-social issues in cooperation nized “green” reputation, Lohr zenshiponthepartofmultina-with nonprofit foundations, said. tional businesses and invest-Brennansaid. 
Lohr said GE chairman and ment, topics that reflect the “Every year, I poll the new CEOJeffImmeltspoketoNotre growing interest in sustainable class of MBA students about Dame MBA students at the GE business,Lohrsaid. the interterm intensives, and Live Forum in October 2009 “This generation is really in roughly 70 percent of them about the company’s strong tune with sustainable, ‘green’ chose Notre Dame partly relationship with the practices within organizations because of that aspect of the University. and how they can impact the program,” Brennan said. “Few ourcurriculum.” porating waste from dairy 
Brennan said the interterm farms into sources of energy, platform ties directly into Brennansaid. developments in sustainable He said he believes Notre business, especially when stu-Dame’sreputationasa“green” dents work with companies business school can only 
like GE, IBM,  improve  the  
Boeing  and  prospects  for  
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters to solve real-life problemsrelated to sustainability and corporate citizenship. “It’s a win-win  “There’s no doubt there will be more focus on sustainability and corporate citizenship in society as a whole.”  thefuture. “There’s no doubt there will be more focus onsustainability and corporate citizenship in society as a  
s  i t  u  a  t i  o n  whole, and we  
because compa­nies get a fresh  Bill Brennan director  are very well-positioned as a  
p e r s p e c t i v e , while students  MBA Program Initiatives  business school to participate in  
getgreatexperi­ that  area  
ential learning  because  of  

opportunities,” Brennan said. things we are already doing,” “The people we partner with he said. “It fits into the value the experience, and we Catholic character andmission workwiththemtodevelopnew of the University, so I can only business strategies, especially see that being enhanced and intheareaofsustainability.” continuing to evolve in the 
In one of several interterm future.” intensivecoursesofferedinthe past, a group of students Contact Kristen Durbin at worked with Dairy kdurbin@nd.edu 
Store Your Stuff (574) 203-0572 
6482 Brick Road,South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass,

Over the Summer! 
Many Sizes      24/7 Coded Access     Sophisticated Surveillance      Packing Supplies     Climate Control Options7MinutesfromCampus 
Get April 
FREE 
With a 4 month lease 
Hassle-Free Leasing! Call Today! 
Limited time only. Restrictions apply. 

www.ministoragedepot.com 
David Yeh, director of have a Mac cluster, and stu-Information Technologies for dents use PCs when classes
Mac 
the Mendoza College of are conducted in computer 

continued from page 1 Business, said labs, Yeh said. 
thehighsalesof However, stu ­
EDDY
YOCAANNLI
YOUCA 
TWYCKENHAM
• Spectacular views of c 

lats & Estates with up to 7 bedrooms “alumni quad” 
EX 
EN
EXTENDED O
ED 

TU
THISFRIDIDAAYY,SATATURDAYAY & SUNDAYAY 
PENHOUSEHOURS 
THI 

 

receiving a free iPod with the Macs do not dents who wish purchase of a computer, Hall reflect whether “I like that it [my to use Mac 
THE

CLOSES 
VE      TOCCAAMP
     AMPU
  US!
  
T

said. or not they can computers may
computer] weighs ten

Hall said PC sales are likely be used in all bring them to
pounds. It helps me 
exercise when I don’t

lower than Mac sales at the academic situa-
OIT Computer Store because tions. class and run 
themparallelto 








have time to get to

studentsdonotfeelcompelled “In the thelabPCs.
the gym.”
to take advantage of discount younger gener-Although not 
A I
PHASE 
ù 
' 7 
ù 
PH I
PHASEI 


/ 
·4 Bedrooms 
·4½ Baths 
· Patio & Deck 

6 

opportunities offered by PC ation,wedosee a business 
Colin Slaggert

manufacturers. an increase in major, Slaggert 
“On the PC side, there’s so students adapt-sophomore said he prefers 
much more competition out ing some of the his PC because 
there,” he said. “There’s not Mac devices,” he is comfort-asbigofachaseforthatulti-he said. able with its 
matediscount.” “However, many of the soft-features. He said he also val-
Butwhenitcomestorepair-wareapplicationsarestillnot uesitssubstantialsize. 
ing computers 100 percent “I like that it weighs ten 
at the service c o m p a t i b l e pounds,” Slaggert said. “It center, many with the Macs. helps me exercise when I more PC-own-It depends on don’t have time to get to the
“Although we have
ing students 
the facet of gym.” 

seen an increase in 
seek assistance 
business.” Giunco said she appreciates 

ampus –
 7 Bedr
· 7Bedrooms
Tennis
across from EckTennis

the amount of 



 
for computer 
AlthoughMac her computer’s compact size 
· 6½ Baths

students buying
problems than 
Mac 
owners, OS and and weight for easy trans-
• ToTown Homes,F 
·on the Q Quad!

Macs, I don’t beleive 
Windows are portation to class. She said 
the two most shehasneverneededtoruna

that means there’s a
Hallsaid. 
• Own a home on the

“Although we higher number of Macs common com-program on her Mac that can 

H Q 
ù 

have seen an on campus.” puteroperating onlyrunonPCs. 


increase in the systems, Yeh Giuncoalsosaidsheprefers 
DOUGLAS 
BULLA 

amount of stu-Jonathan Hall said Notre the user-friendly interface of 
dents buying Dame does not Macs. 
NoNottre
otrre

manager 
Daammee
Dam
Macs, I don’t 
believe that 
limit itself to “Youcancloseitandopenit 
N 
DUNN

OIT Computer Store 
Cammppuus Eck
Caamp
supporting just again and be right where you 
Tennis 

means there’s those two. werebefore,”shesaid.“When 
a higher num-Notre Dame I closed my PC, all my work 
ber of Macs on also supports a would get lost and it would 
JJAACC Soccer Lacrosse 
(574) 607-4271
Football StStadium
tadium 

VANESSVANESS info@IvyQuad.com
Quad.com 
EDISON 

23 
wwww.IvyQ.IvyQuad.co
Quad.com
uad.com

campus,” Hall said. “I do variety of others, including turnoff.” 
thinktherearemorePCssim-Linux,whichisprimarilyused ply because we fix more of torunengineeringprograms. Contact Melissa Flanagan at 
Call David at (574) 607-4271 today!
them.” Mendoza currently does not mfanag3@nd.edu 
Judge returns crown to Texas beauty queen 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — A 17-year­old Texas beauty queen allegedly told to “get off the tacos” after gaining weight has had her crown returned by a judge after a jury ruled that she was wrongly stripped of her title. 
Domonique Ramirez won her lawsuit against the Miss San Antonio pageant, Luis Vera Jr., her attorney, told The Associated Press 
“She won 100 percent,” Vera said. 
Judge Barbara Nellermoe then restored Ramirez’s crown, clearing the way for her to compete for Miss Texas and Miss America, according Court Clerk Grace Montalvo. After deliberating 11.5 hours over two days in the weeklong trial, the Bexar County jury of five men and seven women found that pageant officials, not Ramirez, breached the con­tract. 
“It’s a sad day for us. We think the judge and jury made a huge mistake,” pageant director Linda Woods said. “It’s an injustice for the city of San Antonio, it allows young kids to breach contracts and violate authority without any conse­quences ... It sends the wrong message.” 
Consequently, Woods said she would not personally pro­mote or support Ramirez in her bid for Miss Texas. 
“I’m sorry, there’s no way I would represent her as talent. She’s trouble,” Woods said. 
The size-2 teenager was fired in January over allega­tions of weight gain and bad behavior. Pageant officials tes­tified that Ramirez showed up to a bikini photo shoot over­weight and made pictures “unusable.” 
But pageant officials claimed weight wasn’t the issue. Instead, they said the 5-foot-8, 129-pound teenager was unre­liable, chronically showing up late for events such as grocery store openings, and violated her contract in ways ranging from not writing thank-you notes to blowing off a physical fitness program and vocal les­sons. It all added up to insub­ordination and breach of con­tract, they said. 
Ramirez denied gaining weight or being late. 
After the verdict, pageant attorney Ben Wallis told the San Antonio Express-News that the verdict would cause confusion and that the Miss Texas pageant could refuse to invite Ramirez. He declined to say if the pageant would appeal, only saying that the pageant has “contingency plans.” 
Jury foreman Jesse Sanchez told the Express-News that the verdict was “a hard decision” and that jurors found interest in the case “overwhelming.” He declined to say why dam­ages and fees weren’t awarded to Ramirez. 
There was no immediate word on what would become of Ashley Dixon. Ramirez’s run­ner-up was crowned Miss San Antonio in a courtroom last month after a judge refused Ramirez’s efforts to obtain a temporary injunction stopping the pageant from naming a new winner. 
Judge Nellermoe suggested that community donors provide college scholarships for both Ramirez and Dixon, who have each had their crowns taken away in this dispute. 
Immediately after the trial, Ramirez went to Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church to place the crown on its altar as a gift to the patroness. 
“She’s the queen of all queens, the keeper of all crowns. I wanted to give my crown to her,” Ramirez said, adding that she could buy a replacement crown for the upcoming Fiesta and Miss Texas appearances that go with the title. “I just wanted to send a message I’m very grate­ful and she has answered my prayers.” 
Asked if she had any advice to other young women, Ramirez cautioned them to always carefully read any con­tract they sign and, she added jokingly: “Don’t go eating tacos in the morning.” 

FAAquestionslandingsafety 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Should jetliners be landing with only a single air traffic controller on duty — even if he’s awake? 
Federal officials are grap­pling with that question fol­lowing the safe landing of two jetliners this week with no help from the lone air traffic supervisor on duty at Washington’s Reagan National Airport. He’s been suspended, and safety investigators say he has acknowledged he was asleep. 
The incident comes nearly five years after a fatal crash in Kentucky in which a con­troller was working alone. Accident investigators said that controller was most likely suffering from fatigue, although they placed respon­sibility for the crash that took 49 lives on the pilots. 
Still, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association warned at the time against putting controllers alone on shifts and assigning tiring work schedules. 
The union’s president, Paul Rinaldi, made the same point again on Thursday: “One-per­son shifts are unsafe. Period.” 
The Reagan National inci­dent, around midnight Tuesday night, has sent administration officials scram­bling to assure the public that safety isn’t being compro­mised. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has ordered an examination of controller staffing at airports across the nation, and he directed that two controllers staff the midnight shift in Washington from now on. 
Federal Aviation Administration chief Randy Babbitt said he was investigat­ing the incident, but he also said that at “no point was either plane out of radar con­tact, and our back-up system kicked in to ensure the safe landing of both airplanes.” 
The National Transportation Safety Board has opened its own investigation, and the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has added yet another investiga­tion. 
The issue is likely to land in Congress’ lap next week when the House is expected take up a Republican-drafted bill that would cut $4 billion over four years from the FAA. The agency says it needs more money, not less. 
A House bill already calls for a National Academy of Sciences study of controller staffing. A Senate-passed ver­sion of the bill also would require a study. 
“The incident at Reagan National Airport is troubling and of great concern,” said Rep. Nick Rahall, D-W.Va., the senior Democrat on the trans­portation committee. “We must deal with the immediate safety and security concerns of this critical airspace.” 
Besides Reagan National, at least two other airports in the Washington region — in Richmond, Va., and at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland — are also staffed by a single controller overnight. Among other air­ports identified by the con­trollers’ union as staffed by one controller overnight were San Diego International and Sacramento International in California, Tucson International in Arizona, Reno-Tahoe International in Nevada and Ft. Lauderdale Executive in Florida. 
The Washington controller, who hasn’t been identified, was on his fourth straight overnight shift, from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., the NTSB said. 
Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D­N.J., cited this week’s incident while pressing LaHood for an increase in the number of fully certified controllers assigned to the tower at Newark’s Liberty International Airport. He said the airport is supposed to have 35 to 40 cer­tified controllers, but its tower is currently staffed with 26 certified controllers and eight trainees. 
“The last thing airline pas­sengers should have to worry about is whether there is any­one working in the air traffic control tower below,” Lautenberg said Thursday. 
But some aviation safety experts say perhaps too much is being made of this week’s incident. 

ugh-Naughton Irish Studies
KeKeough aughton Institute fonstitute for Irish Studies Announces 

TwTwowo Ne h StudiesStudies Class Fallsses fo all 201011New Iris es for F 
IRST 0362 The Irish Language Lyre Irish Language Lyri Song radition
IRST 30362 Th c Song Tra itio TR 9:30-10:4
TR 9:30-10:45 CaCathal GoGoan 
! Fo mer ead of Irish Teilifís Éiei fís Éireanneann
Former Head o roadcaster Ra dióster Raidió Te
f Irish Broadca lifís 

IRST on tions
ST 43511 Irish Connection 
MWMW 3:0:00-4:1-4:15 
Denis O"Hearn 
! isiting Professofessor of Soof Sociology
! Visiting Pr ology 

facebook.com/ndirishstudies
facebook.com/ndirishstudies
m/ 
“It’s not outrageous for the agency to avoid putting a sec­ond six-figure employee into a tower where they may only work a dozen airplanes in a shift,” said Bill Voss, president of the Flight Safety Foundation of Alexandria, Va., and a former air traffic con­troller. 
The airport, in Arlington, Va., just across the Potomac River from Washington, typi­cally has four to five sched­uled landings between mid­night and 6 a.m. plus a few unscheduled takeoffs or land­ings, FAA officials said. 
Rep. John Mica, R-Fla., the transportation committee chairman, called LaHood’s decision to add a second con­troller to the midnight shift when there is so little traffic “a typical bureaucratic response.” 
Planes, including smaller airliners, land frequently at small airports where there are no towers and no controllers. 
But Greg Elwood of Winchester, Va., who worked 29 years as a controller before retiring last October, said he feels FAA should have two controllers on duty for the same reason airlines put two pilots in cockpits when a sin­gle pilot is capable of flying the plane alone — it’s a safety hedge against the unforeseen. 
“For sure the work (on an overnight shift) is incredibly easy. It’s really not work, you are more of a watchman so to speak,” Elwood, 57, said in an interview. 
But with a single controller on duty, he said, an airport tower goes unattended every time the controller leaves even to go to the bathroom. 
“In the towers where I have worked, you had to walk down a flight of steps to go to the bathroom — there’s no bath­room in the cab (tower work­room),” Elwood said. “It’s like the cockpit of an airplane. It’s a workplace.” 
The greatest risk to planes landing at night without con­troller assistance at a big air­port like Washington’s is that they might collide with equip­ment or maintenance workers since most runway mainte­nance work is performed 
overnight, Elwood said. 
“That’s when they’re chang­ing the light bulbs and patch­ing the runway,” he said. “A pilot can’t see the whole run­way at night.” 

Write news. 
E-mail mdoyle11@nd.edu 

!"#$%&&'(#$)&$*+,#-.-/,0/1#$2,3'44')+4$'4$$ 
!"#$%&'&!($)"*'$(*&+,-$ 
5%6$!78$9*::86$2;<$;8=!$9>7%%?$@826$ 

.//012341567$38310390:$56016:$34$ ;44/<==3>?1771567@6>@:>A=45ABCA1>:$$$ $ 
Teen may be tried as adult 

Associated Press 
EDMONTON, Ky. — A Kentucky couple who took in an incorrigible 15-year-old relative now accused of killing them had put their foot down when he wanted to date a 12-year-old girl, police and family members said. 
An adult son found Gary and Barbara Holloway dead in their bed Tuesday. Soon after, police issued an Amber Alert for the teen who was living with them and for the girlfriend the couple had for­bidden him to see. Police said they feared both might be in grave danger. 
A day later, in one of the strangest cases to arise from the system designed to find abducted children, the 15­year-old was charged with murdering his cousin and her husband, who welcomed him into their home three months ago when his mother said she could no longer control him. 
“They gave him everything in the world,” said Elizabeth Osborn, a friend of the Holloways’ son, Stephen. “He kept getting suspended from school, and they still gave him everything.” 
The teen now faces juvenile charges, but prosecutors said on Thursday that they plan to ask a judge to have him tried as an adult. The adult charges would carry harsher penalties if he is convicted. 
Family members said the boy was an eighth-grader at the local middle school and habitually got in trouble for bringing cigarettes to school, bullying other children and talking back to his teachers. 
Barbara Holloway, his sec­ond cousin, had taken him in three months ago, said her sister, Ruby Whitehead. Family members said his father is in prison. 

“He’s always been aban­doned his whole life,” said Osborn. “... I guess the first people who showed him love, he didn’t know how to take it.” 
Barbara Holloway would sometimes have to pick him up an hour after school had started because he had been suspended. 
Then there was the rela­tionship with the 12-year-old, which Osborn said both the Holloways and the girl’s mother tried to end. There was no indication the girl was involved in the killing, and police said she was released after they questioned her. 
“We had been trying to fight it and keep them apart,” Osborn said. “Barb had grounded him from seeing her or talking to her.” 
The state medical examin­er’s office said Wednesday preliminary autopsy results showed Gary Holloway, 50, died from multiple gunshot wounds and Barbara Holloway, 51, died of a single gunshot wound. 
Authorities caught up with the teen and his girlfriend a few hours after the Amber Alert was issued. A volunteer firefighter spotted them in the couple’s stolen car, the 15­year-old behind the wheel. 
The teen was being held at the Adair County Youth Development Center. Besides murder, he is charged with fleeing and evading, wanton endangerment, criminal mis­chief, reckless driving and driving without a license. Authorities have not said whether he will be charged as an adult. The Associated Press generally does not iden­tify juveniles charged with crimes. 
Osborn said she and Stephen Holloway discovered the bodies Tuesday when they went to check on the couple because they could not reach them on the phone. She said $1,000 had been taken and someone had dropped off the couple’s dog at an adult day care center. 
Osborn and Holloway called police, who issued the Amber Alert, which described the Holloways’ car. Volunteer firefighter Moe Hensley told The Associated Press he heard the alert several times on his way home, then spot­ted the car and called a dis­patcher, who contacted state police. 
There was a short chase when police tried to pull the car over about 15 miles from where the Holloways were found, and the 15-year-old drove off the road. Police say he and the 12-year-old ran away but were caught quick­ly. 
Police defended issuing the alert, saying they did not know exactly what had hap­pened. 
“We had to consider every possible scenario, the possi­bility that they were perpe­trators as well as victims,” state police trooper Bill Gregory said. 
Whitehead, Barbara Holloway’s sister, questioned the decision to issue the Amber Alert. 
“It should have been more like, ‘We need these two peo­ple caught right away,’” she said. “... Not an Amber Alert that made people think they were in danger because they were never in danger.” 


BELGIUM 

NATO begins takeover of fight against Libya 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS — NATO agreed late Thursday to take over part of the military opera­tions against Libya — enforcement of the no -fly zone — after days of hard bargaining among its mem­bers. But the toughest and most controversial portion of the operation — attacks on the ground — will continue to be led by the U.S., which has been anxious to give up the lead role. 
NATO Secretary -General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who announced the agreement in Brussels, said the alliance could eventually take more responsibility, “but that deci­sion has not been reached yet.” It appeared that some NATO members balked at any involvement in attacks on ground targets, something the alliance’s sole Muslim member, Turkey, has resisted. 
In Washington, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton praised NATO for taking over the no-fly zone, even though the U.S. had hoped the alliance would take full con­trol of the military operation authorized by the United Nations, including the protec­tion of Libyan civilians and supporting humanitarian aid efforts on the ground. The operation cost the U.S. close to $1 billion in less than a week, and has drawn criti­cism in Congress from mem­bers of both parties. 
NATO said late Thursday that it expected to commence enforcement of the no -fly zone within two to three days. The operation will be commanded from Naples by Adm. Samuel J. Locklear. 
NATO also agreed to launch military planning for a broad­er mandate, including a “no-drive” zone that would pre­vent Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi’s armor and artillery from moving against rebels his forces had been routing before the coalition’s air assault began late last week. 
“If we are led to hit tanks, it is because the tanks target the civilians, ” French President Nicolas Sarkozy said, adding that Gadhafi troops stationed tanks in neighborhoods to provoke civilian casualties. 
The North Atlantic Council is scheduled to meet on Sunday to consider the broader plans. 
“Without prejudging delib­erations, I would expect a decision in coming days, ” Fogh Rasmussen said. 
Diplomats also have drawn up plans to put political supervision of NATO’s effort in the hands of a broader international coalition. U.S., European, and Arab and African officials have been invited to London next week to work out the details. 
“The political coordination cannot be only NATO because there are countries there that are not members of NATO,” Sarkozy said. 
U.S. weapons are being used less frequently than they were when airstrikes began. French fighter jets used deep inside Libya on Thursday hit aircraft and a crossroads mil­itary base. 
“Nearly all, some 75 per­cent of the combat air patrol missions in support of the no-fly zone, are now being exe­cuted by our coalition part­ners,” Navy Vice Adm. William Gortney, told reporters Thursday at the Pentagon. Other countries were handling less than 10 percent of such missions Sunday, he said. 
The U.S. will continue to fly combat missions as needed, but its role will mainly be in support missions such as refueling allied planes and providing aerial surveillance of Libya, Gortney said. 
Allies have especially sought military assistance from Arab countries, seeking to avoid an all-Western mili­tary presence. Qatar is expected to begin flying air patrols this weekend, and on Thursday Clinton praised a second Arab nation, the United Arab Emirates, after it agreed to deploy 12 planes. 
NATO’s top decision-making body, the North Atlantic Council, had been struggling for six days to reach an agreement on using its mili­tary command and control capability to coordinate the operation in Libya. 
Senior Obama administra­tion officials said the break­through came in a four-way telephone call with Clinton and the foreign ministers of Britain, France and Turkey. The four worked out the way forward, which included the immediate transfer of com­mand and control of the no-fly zone over Libya, and by early next week of the rest of the U.N.-mandated mission. 
The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity to dis­cuss sensitive military plan­ning, said the actual han­dover of the no -fly zone would occur in one or two days. 
Turkey’s parliament on Thursday authorized the gov­ernment to participate in mil­itary operations in Libya, including the no-fly zone. 
Libya’s air force has been effectively neutralized. Briefing reporters in Tripoli late Thursday, Libyan Deputy Foreign Minister Khaled Kaim said no Libyan planes have been in the air since the no-fly zone was declared. 
But the rebels demanding Gadhafi’s ouster after 42 years in power remain less organized and less heavily armed than Gadhafi’s forces, and they have had trouble taking full advantage of the international airstrikes. A 
U.N. arms embargo blocks the rebels and the govern­ment from getting more weapons. 
The rebels were so strapped Thursday that they handed out sneakers — and not guns — at one of their checkpoints. 
“We are facing cannons, T­72 and T-92 tanks, so what do we need? We need anti­tank weapons, things like that,” said Col. Ahmed Omar Bani, a military spokesman told reporters in Benghazi, the de facto rebel capital. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, March 25, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Observer fever 

On Wednesday night, I had a minor crisis in The Observer offices: we ran out of purple pens. Normally, this would not be an issue. Purple isn’t even my favorite color — blue is, if you were wondering. In fact, I do not even own one purple article of clothing, including under­wear (I just checked). Why was the absence of pur­ple ink in my life such a travesty? Simple: Justin 

Sam Stryker 
Bieber’s favorite color is purple. 
This time last 

News Editor
year, the Biebs was a celebrity, but certainly no superstar. I remember one time in the spring, a high-pitched voice emanated from the radio in the fourth floor bathroom of Knott Hall. At first, I thought I was listening to any run of the mill female pop star. I was mistaken — it was Justin. Justin was something for preteen girls, like my little sister, but not me. 
Over time, however, I came down with the (Bieber) Fever, and I came down with it hard. Between hearing his jams at parties, dances, even the dining hall, the little Canuck with swag grew on me. Never say never … to try something you previously discounted. 
This is not the only time I made the mistake of rejecting something I would end up loving. Coffee? I used to scoff at my friend Maureen for drinking it every day. Now I practically have a Starbucks opened in my stomach. During high school, I made a point of not wearing jeans because I thought they gave me a rash. Today? Well, let’s just say I have been wearing the same pair of jeans the last three days. The biggest thing I have tried which I pre­viously rejected was the Bat House at the Bronx Zoo. My mother had to drag me in, kicking and screaming. Yet to this day, I am obsessed with all things creepy and crawly. 
The reason I am rambling about Justin Bieber and my grungy jeans is because you wouldn’t be reading this inside column if it wasn’t for me giving things I previously rejected a chance. In high school, most of my friends wrote for our school newspaper. At one point or another, they all told me I should write for the newspaper. I lis­tened — sort of. At the time, I thought journalism was for people who liked to write a little bit too much. 
However, when I came to Notre Dame, I suddenly had a lot more free hours in my day. It took me a while to figure out how to use them, but even­tually, I decided to give The Observer a shot. It sucked me in, and as cliché as it sounds, my life hasn’t been the same ever since. There has been lost sleep, hair pulled out, and missed social opportunities, but I love what I do here. 
I guess what I am trying to say is this — it may be a prepubescent teenybopper, or maybe the independ­ent student publication at one of the most prestigious universities in America. Regardless of what the opportunity is, give it a chance. You never know what you’re going to get out of it. 
Now excuse me while I go and find some purple pens. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Observing contradictions during Lent 
It is an unfortunate fact that greedy, self-serving, mean-spirited people abound around us daily in our society. Personal contradictions range from the subtle to the out­landish. For example, twice yearly — during the Christmas season and Lent — a humanist organization purchases advertising titled, “What Humanists Think,” and places it on the Metro buses in Washington, D.C. Their mes­sage proclaims that some people do not have to believe in God to be good. Yet during the past two years, as rou­tinely as those posters appear on the divider wall behind the driver’s seat, intolerant so-called “good” Christians inevitably deface and destroy them by adding biblical citations or crossing off Gary Caruso the words, “do not.” 

Undoubtedly, Lent is a personal con-Capitol tradiction for me. I usually transform Comments into a 40-day curmudgeon as I attempt to forego treats, change habits or lose weight. This year I unwisely tackled all three goals, and fear that this col­umn may sound more like an Andy Rooney rant than an inner self-examination. Try my best; I sometimes forget to order fish on Fridays. Most interestingly, several events thus far have heightened my awareness as though a greater power spread icing on my Lenten proverbial cake. Regardless of my initial expectations and goals, the unseen paths of Lent forever twist within my current trek. 
On Wednesday, the worlds of life and death — central to our Lenten sacrificial awareness — collided for two of my close, fellow Notre Dame alumni. While Mike Paulius (‘73) celebrated another birthday, Bill Delaney (‘76) traveled to a hospital following the death of his mother. For me, and many Catholics, the cognizance of living and dying simply lurks, mostly unnoticed, in the corners of our consciousness until we lose someone we love. For some, only organized religion seems to periodically prod serious notions of life and death from within the depths of our souls to the forefront of our thoughts. 
But is organized religion the only catalyst? Others would argue that the mere humanist movement’s fights against what they perceive as religious bias, strategically unveiled to coincide with Christmas and Lent (like when the early Church created Christmas to coincide with the Pagan Winter Solstice), also elevate serious universal notions for good liv­ing and of the consequences of dying. Surely my Baptist coworker who hums religious hymns daily at her desk but oftentimes crashes other divisions’ pizza lunches to pilfer two plates of food could use any Christian, Pagan or Humanist self-awareness sessions that are open-minded and inclusive. 
However, in my experience, most Catholic religious purists prefer to purge progressive-thinking members with a “take it or leave it” attitude. They walk a rigid line seeking to return to the theological history embodied in neo-scholasticism and biblical literalism. They stood in opposition to the Second Vatican Council reforms that embraced modernism and sought to renew the Church by restoring unity among all Christians and a dialogue with a contemporary world. 
Today, they too oftentimes contradict themselves for politi­cal expediency. They praise the professed pro-life stands of some politicians who oppose abortion but who send convicts to their deaths by refusing requests for clemency. Specifically, 1976 Notre Dame graduate and current Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell last year refused to grant clemency (life) for convicted murderer Teresa Lewis, evaluated with an IQ of about 70. In his statement to deny clemency, McDonnell cited “no compelling reason to set aside the sentence.” 
If life itself is not a compelling reason to spare the life of even a prisoner, it is no wonder religion is on the decline throughout the globe. Recently, the American Physical Society met in Dallas where it unveiled the study, “A mathe­matical model of social group competition with application to the growth of religious non-affiliation.” A group of mathe­maticians analyzed available (not asked in the U.S.) census data trends throughout the past century. They predict that in the future, organized religion will nearly vanish from nine Western-style democracies — the Netherlands, Ireland, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland, Finland, Austria and the Czech Republic. 
They found evidence of a herd mentality among respon­dents who are drifting away from religion, not unlike the majority of churches in our hemisphere with less than 200 worshipers who conversely only favor their style of pure doc­trine. As obvious contradictions and scandals unfold world­wide within various religions, religion generally is losing importance. Trends show that as religious affiliation declines to nearly nonexistent numbers in the countries studied, it is more attractive for those citizens to be part of the majority rather than a minority — more popular to not be a churchgo­er. 
On the most basic level, it really comes down to each indi­vidual’s level of acceptance of others, regardless of how imperfect an individual. It also helps before ordering Friday’s lunch to remember that a Cuban sandwich is meaty, not fishy. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The fruit of labor 
At first I greatly appreciated your piece (“Where idealism and realism don’t intersect,” Mar. 24) as satire, but eventually I became worried that you were serious. I am responding to what I am afraid are your actual opinions. 
Instead of joining a union, Mark wants the average American worker to fight for his/her rights by independently suing his/her employer. As such disputes are resolved in the American legal system, where lawsuits drag on for years and cost tens of thou­sands of dollars, and where teams of corporate lawyers can easi­ly outlast individuals who can’t pay outrageous legal fees in what often become legal wars of attrition, I think the average American worker would be thrilled by this suggestion! Who needs a union to pay for lawsuits on his/her behalf? This is America — we are free to bankrupt ourselves fighting in vain for what’s right, thank you very much! 
Mark says unions discourage employers from staying in the United States. Indeed, the sub-human working conditions in many developing countries are very attractive to employers. We should be ashamed of ourselves for not aiming to be just as attractive. How can we convince employers they can treat American workers like animals? Mark suggests we support right-to-work legislation, which is a step in the right direction! 
To the maligned “left-wingers, lifetime union members and subscribers to Catholic social teaching,” in solidarity I leave you with the words of Abraham Lincoln: “Labor is prior to, and inde­pendent of, capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor, and could never have existed if labor had not first existed. Labor is the superior of capital, and deserves much the higher considera­tion.” 
Mikey Pilger 
freshman Fisher Hall Mar. 24 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The world is moving so fast these days that the man who says it can’t be done is generally interrupted by someone doing it.” 
Harry Emerson Fosdick 
U.S. clergyman 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Every day brings a chance for you to draw in a breath, kick off your shoes and dance.” 
Oprah Winfrey American TV host 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, March 25, 2011 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Looking forward to a tight topic at God Debate II 
The upcoming God Debate II between Sam Harris and William Lane Craig has me even more excited than I was last year. The title “Is Good from God?” already has something that last year’s debate was lacking: a tight topic. 
Here’s why I think this debate will be interesting and original: “Is Good from God?” presumes the concept of “good.” So often, we pit atheists and Christians in a battle of moral relativism versus moral absolutism, and the dialogue is entirely unproductive. The two worldviews hold such absolutely different premises — one that thinks that judgments of good and bad have consequence, and another that thinks that only evolutionary progress and regress run the show. Not only are these two camps speaking different languages, but they’re speaking about differ­ent universes with entirely different rules. 
Now, someone correct me if I speak too boldly, but I think that the vast majority of us recognize intuitively the general goodness or badness of an action. We may explain it in any number of ways, but when we shove a man in front of a train, we intuit that there must have been a better course of action (even if he was going for our turkey sandwich). 
William Lane Craig has spoken on the relationship of morality and religion dozens of times. His 2005 article, “The Indispensability of Theological meta-Ethical Foundations for Morality,” lays out his argument succinctly. He writes that “objective morality” is expressed in relation to us in the form of divine com­mands which constitute our moral duties or obligations. Far from being arbi­trary, these commands flow necessarily from His moral nature. 
Sam Harris is also well-practiced in this debate topic. In his 2010 book, “The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values,” Harris writes that “values reduce to facts about the well-being of conscious creatures” and “given that there are facts — real facts — to be known about how conscious creatures can experience the worst possible misery and the greatest possible well-being, it is objectively true to say that there are right and wrong answers to moral questions, whether or not we can always answer these questions in prac­tice.” 
Notice that in this debate, Sam Harris and William Lane Craig begin with this same premise — that actions can be objectively good or bad! 
I think it’s a starting point with extraordinary potential. As an atheist, I am tired of being typecast as the moral relativist who thinks that mankind is delu­sional and progress is illusory. On the contrary, I think it is quite dangerous to believe that no individual is ever responsible for how he defines the rules of con­duct! I think ethics is a perfectly natural system that can be reasoned out as soon as two parties realize that they are interdependent. With constant confrontation and collaboration, we can reason out ethical standards that work properly for all occasions. My Christian classmates also find the “good” to be reasonable and right, though they see these moral values as having necessary origins in God. 
This is a far more interesting debate than the open-ended “Is there God?” It takes a particular case study which we mostly agree upon “goodness and bad­ness” and makes it an issue for unpacking that more complicated question. 
Mary Buechler 
junior Lewis Hall Mar. 24 

“The God Debate” 
Next month, Notre Dame is hosting round two of “The God Debate.” Those who organized this forum are to be applauded, for I can think of no subject of more fundamental importance than the question of the existence of God. However, the choice of speakers both this year and last leaves me a bit perplexed. 
Last year, “The God Debate” pitted Christopher Hitchens who, although by no means a philosopher, is certainly one of the finest contemporary stylists and one of the most interesting public intellectuals of his generation, against Dinesh D’Souza, for whom I cannot come up with a more suitable appellation than “con­servative hack.” This year standards have fallen on both sides. Taking up the mantle of atheism now is Sam Harris, a second-rate polemicist and CEO of Project Reason. On the theist side, the impossible seems to have occurred: a less adept defender of theism than D’Souza has been found in Prof. William Lane Craig, a creationist at Biola University. 
Based on the choice of interlocutors for these events, one can draw two conclu­sions: 
First, it appears that those who organize the event are either unserious, naïve or both. When discussing such profound matters as the existence of God and the origin of goodness, one should find commensurately profound commentators. Save perhaps for Hitchens, this has not happened. Of course, doing so might require moving beyond the “New Atheists” and their popular critics, which would admittedly diminish the sex appeal of the event, but at least it would pre­vent the debate from devolving into cheap verbal barbs and cookie-cutter “proofs.” 
Second, it would seem that those who organize the event do not take the theist position seriously. With all of the fine Christian scholars at Notre Dame, includ­ing some such as Brad Gregory who have written on the subject of the “New Atheism,” why bother flying in D’Souza and Craig? And if you insist on expend­ing the resources necessary to fly someone in, why not choose a more reputable critic of the “New Atheism,” such as David Bentley Hart? 
While time is certainly tight, I would urge those who are in charge of “The God Debate” to change the bill for the evening. If the debate must be between a popu­lar “New Atheist” and a theist critic, then you should, in the name of academic integrity, replace Craig with someone like Brad Gregory or David Bentley Hart. 
Joseph Nawrocki 
graduate student off-campus Mar. 24 

Going further 
I could not agree more with Mr. Mark Easley (“Where idealism and realism don’t intersect,” Mar. 24) in his assessment that unions “are outdated vehicles of progress.” In fact, I only wish Mr. Easley went further in his demand to remove unions from both the private and public sphere. In the name of almighty efficiency, why not remove all restrictions on child labor laws as well? After all, before that pesky federal government interfered, their tiny hands were better suited for work in textile mills. All of America’s youngsters could be getting an early start on their 401(k)s! Who needs that government-imposed obstacle to competitiveness, minimum wage laws? And just think of how competitive America could be if we returned to those halcyon days of the industrial revolution before those mobs otherwise known as “unions” demanded a TWO-DAY weekend. I can only hope and pray that someday the government will impose better protections against the unions that drive their companies overseas and will continue to support our hostage and battle-weary CEOs whose annual bonuses only rank in the millions of dollars. 
Claire Brosnihan 
senior Pasquerilla East Hall Mar. 24 

An analysis of Rebecca Black’s song “Friday” 
The decline in American culture becomes apparent when looking at and judging the popular music of the day. Rebecca Black’s hit song “Friday” makes light of this degrada­tion of American civilization and highlights our stupidity as a people. The failure to read and understand the obvious deeper meaning of this song is simply atrocious, and points out major gaps in our education and schooling. In order to attempt to facilitate creativi­ty and critical thinking within our schools, I will attempt to dissect and to shine a light of knowledge on the forbidden metaphorical corners of the first verse and chorus of Rebecca Black’s song. 
In the opening lines of the song, Rebecca Black repeats the word “Yeah” approxi­mately 12 times. This number 12 obviously hearkens back to the 12 Disciples, represen­tatives of the 12 Tribes of Israel, and her refrain of “yeah” signals an acceptance. Black is making two important points here — she accepts Christ as her Savior, and she accepts Israel as a sovereign nation. 
Rebecca’s song really takes off with the first verse. She sings “Seven a.m. waking up the morning / Gotta be fresh / Gotta go downstairs / Gotta have my bowl / Gotta have cereal / Seein’ everything the time is goin’ / Tickin’ on and on, everybody’s rushin / Gotta get down to the bus stop / Gotta catch my bus, I see my friends.” 
This verse begins to highlight the struggles that Rebecca Black deals with and her outlook on society as a whole. Her repetition of the word “gotta” shows that she is sim­ply going through the motions — forcing herself to do the tasks that society expects of her. When she talks about the time, continuously “tickin’ on and on,” she is commenting on the fact that the fast-paced, demanding society has turned her “necessary” tasks into something monotonous, leaving her with no time to stop and admire the world around her. However, when she sees her friends waiting at the bus stop, this is what gives her life. Without her friends, she would be but an empty husk, but her friends transform her. 
Rebecca Black then sings “Kickin’ in the front seat / Sittin’ in the back seat / Gotta make my mind up / which seat can I take?” This is Rebecca’s commentary on her socioeconomic status and the decline of the American middle class. The “seats” are a metaphor for the American class system — there are only the front seat (upper class), where her friends are “kickin’,” a synonym for relaxing, and the back seat (lower class), where her friends are “sittin,” a word that does not invoke the same relaxing connota­tion. She asks the listener, “which seat can I take,” making the class distinction seem like an arbitrary choice, where if one performs one’s necessary societal tasks, one can have their choice of either the front or the back seat. 
Rebecca now launches into her refrain. “It’s Friday, Friday / Gotta get down on Friday / Everybody’s lookin’ forward to the weekend / Partyin’ Partyin’ Yeah! Partyin’ Partyin’ Yeah! / Fun Fun Fun Fun / Lookin’ forward to the weekend.” The repetition found in this chorus is crucial here. She repeats this line twice, cementing this refrain into the minds of the listeners that what they are hearing is the true Rebecca Black. Her repetition of the words “Friday” and “weekend” showcase Rebecca’s excitement at the arrival of the weekend — a time where she breaks free of the societal demands. This is much like when she sees her friends at the bus stop — she is invigorated. Her plans, something that she must do, are also repeated. She must “party” and she must have “fun.” This is repeated with excitement, with much more energy than what she had to do in the first verse — conform to society’s demands. Doing what she wants for a change gives her new life, the only reason why she “wakes up at seven a.m.” during the week. Finally, the repetition of the final line, “Lookin’ forward to the weekend,” solidifies the belief that without the weekend, Rebecca Black would be but a robot, destined for a life of monotony. 
Indeed, Rebecca Black’s song contains more than what immediately meets the eye. It is a daring commentary on societal constraints, religion and the American class system. Her songwriting is simply brilliant and fearless. However, like any good poet, her mean­ing is not immediately clear, but needs critical thinking to peel back the layers. I hope that one day the average American citizen will reach this level of intellect. Only then will we regain our status as a world superpower. 
Mick Hammock 
sophomore Knott Hall Mar. 24 

Be creative. Send a letter to the editor. 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Friday, March 25, 2011 



BAR RELA Attended Hip Hop Night at Lege Sang karaoke at Club 23 [10 po Attempted to win trivia night a 
[5 points, 10 points for a win] 
Had a Papa Smurf at Between t Bought a $4 pitcher of beer at C Went to Mulligan’s or Oyster Ba 
Wednesday [10 points] Been in the cage at Fever [15 po 
Had your ID taken at Finny’s [2 Went to the Backer after a footb Got arrested [or hit in the face] 

BAD IDE Gotten a ResLife [5 points each Lost your ND ID [5 points for ea Been kicked out of an ND footb Been in a physical fight [10 poin Gotten a drinking ticket [15 poi additional one] Put a bike in a tree [10 points] 
THE NOT-SO-THRILLING LIFE 
Never played hooky [-15 points] 
Stayed in on a weekend night to do laundry [­10 points] Never been late to class [-10 points] 
Never asked for an assignment extension [-15] Never dressed up for Halloween [-15 points] 
Always been the DD [-10 points] Been kicked out of a dance [10 Been arrested [20 points] Played Full Beer Flip Cup [10 p Spent a night in prison [30 poin 

Walked up the stairs in front of [20 points] Walked back to campus alone a Gone to the campus cemetery a 
Cheated on an exam [10 points 
Fooled around in one of the aca points] 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, March 25, 2011 page 13 


GOOD STORIES 
Went to class drunk on St. Patrick’s Day [10 points] 
Done a “Walk of Shame” [5 points] 
Been quoted for the “Question of the Day” [10 points] Attended a Dome Dance [15 points] 
Won Bengal or Baraka Bouts [35 points] 
Had something blessed by Father Hesburgh [15 points] Been inside the football locker room [10 points] Been to Duck Island [10 points] 
Attended PigTostal [5 points each time] 
Had a “Darty” [day party] on a snow day [15 points] 
Been woken up by a fire alarm and forced to go outside in the middle of the night [5 points] 
Kissed/was the leprechaun [25 points] Talked yourself out of a ResLife/arrest [15 points] Hooked up with someone in the middle of a party 
or bar [5 points] 
Met Taylor Swift on campus [15 points] Shook hands with President Jenkins [10 points] 
Painted your body for a football game [15 points] 
he Buns [10 points] Corby’s [5 points] ar after bowling on 
oints] 0 points] ball game [10 points] at CJ’s [20 points] 

EA? 
] ach time] all game [10 points] nts] ints, add 5 for each 
points] 
oints] nts] the main building 
at night [10 points] at night [10 points] ] ademic buildings [15 
EVERYONE IS DOING IT 
Gone to a themed dorm party [5 points] 
Attended an off-campus party [5 points] Been to Drummer’s Circle [5 points] Played Bookstore Basketball [5 points] 
Been to a SUB movie [5 points] 
Fallen while doing pushups in the Stadium [10 points] Slept over at The Stain [10 points] Lit a candle at the Grotto [5 points] 
Rubbed Knute Rockne’s nose at the Rock [5 points] Attended Carrol Christmas [10 points] Gone to an SYR [5 points] 
Attended a major party at another school [10 points] 
Bought more than two pizzas at Reckers for you and your friends [10 points] 
Broke Parietals [10 points] 
Finished the night at Nick’s Patio [5 points] Been to the Keenan Revue [5 points each time] Attended an “Ugly Sweater” Party [5 points] Taken 21 shots on your 21st birthday [21 
points, plus one for every extra shot] 
Done a beer bong [10 points] Done a keg stand [10 points] Attempted the Hesburgh Challenge [15 points] 
Attended 40s at 4 [10 points] 
FINAL SCORING: 
0-100 Welcome to Weenieville; ie, your life needs a makeover asap! It’s time to let go and make life more interesting… college is too short to stay in this range very long! 
101-200 There have been a few thrills here and there, but you could definitely use more excitement. Maybe implement the “never say no” policy for a bit and see how that treats you. 
201-275 Not too bad, but nothing to get too excited about. Not sug­gesting you get arrested, but if you’re feeling crazy, why not visit Duck Island after Climbing Stepan? 
276-350 People might not call you reckless, but you’ve had your average share of thrills. A few more points couldn’t hurt, but for the meantime good for you. 
351-425 Safe to say life is interesting. Keep up the momentum… You’re a king! 
426-500 For better or worse, life is certainly exciting! It’s guaranteed you have a number of stories that start out “remember that time when...” 
501-575 At this point no one can consider you dull. But depending on how you racked up those points, it might be wise to slow down. But then again, this is still college! 
576-675 College or reckless? Awesome Awesome Awsome! 
676+ Let’s just say it’s a wonder you made it this far… 
Photos Courtesy of Observer File Photos BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

NBA 

Knicks confident Carmelo trade will pay off with time 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Jerry West believes the Carmelo Anthony trade was good for the Knicks and Nuggets, though neither may know how beneficial for a while. 
Knicks fans may be ques­tioning that as their team continues to falter. The highs and lows they feel are just part of sports, though. For West, they became a health risk. 
Watching the teams he assembled as one of the NBA’s best executives caused too much stress for someone bat­tling a heart condition. He could handle the anxiety and any pain as a Hall of Fame player, but not once he no longer had any control over the outcome. 
“When it affects you the way it affects me, and it affects moods, mood swings, lack of sleep, I feel enormous stress and pressure,” West said in a phone interview. “I didn’t feel that as a player. I did not feel that. I just felt these different palpitations where sometimes it felt that your heart was Denver go 11-4 since dealing beating completely out of your its superstar, but West said chest and every once in a it’s too early for the panic while you get a little light-surrounding the Knicks. headed. “You can’t judge a trade by 
“That wasn’t what I felt as that, and it also gives them an executive. I felt this frus-building blocks,” West said tration, anxi -before the ety.” game. “They 
West was in got not only New York on Carmelo, they Wednesday to “They got not only got a tremen­discuss his Carmelo, they got a dous player in fight against tremendous player in Chauncey atrial fibrilla-Chauncey Billups.” Billups. He’s tion and to really good and 
Jerry West 
encourage peo-so they got two ple to get facts NBA Hall of Fame inductee really good about the dis-players out of ease early. He it, but they wasn’t diag -haven’t played nosed until long after his together that long so I don’t playing days, but said medical say it’s patience, I think to me advances have made early it’s understandable that they detection far easier now. wouldn’t come in and burn 
He also got to check in on the house down as far as win-the Knicks, who fell to 7-10 ning games.” since acquiring Anthony and West constructed champion 35-36 for the season with a Lakers teams in the 1980s 111-99 loss to the Orlando and 2000s, then built a con-Magic. tending team in Memphis 
They’ve fallen to seventh before retiring in 2007, so he place in the Eastern knows about making difficult Conference while watching deals, and understands the results may not come quickly. 
“Regardless of how people try to read trades — Denver is playing well, they certainly have more depth now than they had before — but the reality of a trade like this, you’re not going to be able to judge this until next year or two years from now,” he said. “Which team is going to pros­per the most, which team is going to make progress to the ultimate goal of any fran ­chise, and that’s to win cham­pionships.” 
Because he was on the East Coast, West was unable to see the Lakers’ triple-overtime victory over Phoenix on Tuesday. He likely wouldn’t have watched it even if he were still running the Lakers. 
“I would probably be out in the parking lot ready to kill a player when he made a terri­ble mistake, and the same player makes the winning basket and you feel good about him again,” West said. “It brings up all kind of differ­ent emotions when you have this arrhythmia problem I have and also the things I’ve had to do to cope with it, and those kinds of moments were the ones that were set it off even more so.” 
AFib is the most common form of heart arrhythmia, affecting an estimated 2.5 million Americans. It causes a rapid or irregular heart rhythm and can lead to stroke or heart failure, along with other conditions. There may not be pain like West experi­ences, making it unknown to many sufferers. 
“I feel the symptoms, where a lot of people never feel it and that’s where it’s most dangerous,” he said, “because it can be fatal if you don’t get treated and if you don’t do the right things to help battle this disease.” 
West only disclosed his con­dition two years ago, but he wants others to be aware and discuss it sooner. There is a website, www.AFStat.com, which includes an evaluator that allows people to see if they might be at risk, as well as information on medical costs and a place where visi­tors can share their stories. 
NFL 

Rookie NFL coaches unable to contact players 
2010. So their handicap isn’t situation winds up being.” 
Associated Press 
quite as severe. The longer the work stop-

NEW ORLEANS — Welcome Still, the lockout is a hin-page, though, the more difficult to the NFL head coaching fra-drance as all eight of them try it will be for the new guys. ternity, gentlemen. By the way, to rebuild struggling teams. Except in Dallas and Cleveland, you can’t talk to your players, “It’s given us a little disad-the quarterback scenario is in install new schemes or go after vantage,” Rivera said. “You flux. It’s possible the starter free agents right now. want to have the team around whenever the season begins — 
That’s not exactly what the and your veteran guys so you if there is a 2011 season — isn’t rookie coaches bargained for. get a sense or a feel for what even on the roster in San With the lockout, it’s what they do. There will always be a Francisco, Minnesota, they’ve got. learning curve and now it’s Tennessee or Carolina. 
It’s a most damaging dynamic steeper.” New coordinators in most of to teams starting anew such as More like a slippery slope. those cities have little familiari­the 49ers, Browns, Panthers Rivera couldn’t put in place his ty with their players. No matter and Broncos who went com-offensive and defensive sys-how quick a study they might pletely outside their organiza-tems. He can’t identify who the be, an assistant coach’s film tion to hire a new head man. At key players will be on his roster work doesn’t replace hands-on least Denver grabbed a grizzled because of all the turnover teaching. veteran in John Fox, who won a required in Carolina. He can’t “The coaches are getting conference title during his nine chase free agents to fill some of plenty of time to get ready for with the Panthers and losing “But again, these things are seasons in charge in Carolina. the massive holes on both lines. that,” Munchak said with a the 2004 Super Bowl to New not rocket science.” Jim Harbaugh in San Teams aren’t exactly dead in chuckle. “You have to be smart England. They can be complex, though, Francisco, Pat Shurmur in the water because all 32 of about it. Let your staff do what “Retread,” he said with a loud when someone is coming from Cleveland and Ron Rivera in them are preparing for the it does best, let your coordina-laugh. the college ranks and has been Carolina are newbies. draft, which was protected tors do what they are comfort-“I had a chance to meet our out of the NFL since 2003. 
The new coaches in under the collective bargaining able with, nothing drastic. You players early on. I’ve watched Harbaugh, who spent 14 years Tennessee (Mike Munchak), agreement that expired on don’t want to be switching from plenty of tape. I think system-as a pro quarterback for five Oakland (Hue Jackson), March 11. But it’s hardly busi-a 4-3 defense to a 3-4.” wise offensively we’re not much teams, comes from coaching Minnesota (Leslie Frazier) and ness as usual. Oops. That’s almost what Fox different since our offensive bloodlines. His father Jack has Dallas (Jason Garrett) either “We have to be fluid, be ready is doing as he moves from coordinator from a year ago spent more than four decades were with those organizations as time goes on,” Rivera said. Carolina to Denver; the Broncos will be back again. Defensively on the sideline, and brother last year or, in Frazier’s and “The bottom line that we talk are switching to the 4-3. we’ve got some (coaches) back, John has led the Ravens to the Garrett’s cases, actually took about is we have to be ready to But Fox also knows his way but there’s no doubt we’ve got playoffs in all three seasons in over as interim coaches in play and adjust to whatever the around the league, going 73-71 an adjustment as we go 4-3. charge in Baltimore. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
WANTED  FOR SALE  Jaimison Residence Condominium 3 BR, 2 Bath, 2 story, 2nd floor  NOTICES  Michael Scott: Ladies and gentle­man, I have some bad news.  
entrance condominium with no  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  Meredith was hit by a car.  
access except the front door, in the  go it alone. Notre Dame has many  Oscar: Where?  
Jamison Residence on Ivy Road,  resources in place to assist you. If  Michael Scott: It happened this  
17702 Douglas Rd South Bend  walking distance to ND Stadium.  you or someone you love needs  morning in the parking lot. I took her  
Earn Extra Money Students needed  Newly Renovated 3 Bed/2 Full Bath  Central air conditioning. Great place  If you or someone you care about  confidential support or assistance,  to the hospital. And the doctors tried  
ASAP. Earn up to $150 per day  2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek Lots of  for football weekends. Can sleep up  has been sexually assaulted, we  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  to save her, life, they did the best  
being a Mystery Shopper. No  Parking Walk to Campus 50+  to 12 comfortably with bunk beds.  can help. For more information, visit  For more information, visit ND's  they could. And she is going to be  
Experience Required. Call 1-888­ Photos on web 17702douglas.com  Full kitchen, and fireplace in the liv- Notre Dames website:  website at: http://pregnancysup­ ok.  
534-5008  574-876-8596  ing room. $250.000. Available on  http://csap.nd.edu  port@nd.edu  Stanley: What is wrong with you?  
June 1st, 2011. Call 239-877-1625  Why would you have to phrase is  
or email spocknd1@aol.com with  like that?  
inquiries.  
————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Walker guides UConn past SDSU in semis 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. — The leg­end of Kemba Walker is grow­ing bigger with each postseason feat for the Connecticut Huskies, who are on the brink of another trip to the Final Four. 
Walker scored 22 of his 36 points in another dynamic sec­ond-half performance, relent­lessly driving UConn down the stretch in a 74-67 victory over San Diego State in the West regional semifinals Thursday night. 
Freshman Jeremy Lamb added 24 points and hit a clutch 3-pointer with 1:43 left for the third-seeded Huskies (29-9), who won five games in five days to capture the Big East tourna­ment and now are going to an NCAA regional final for the 10th time. 
Walker, the fearless playmak­er from the Bronx generously listed at 6-foot-1, scored 12 consecutive points for the Huskies down the stretch. 
UConn advanced to Saturday’s regional final against the win­ner of top-seeded Duke’s meet­ing with Arizona later at Honda Center. 
With four 3-pointers and a lit­tle veteran savvy to draw a run-stopping technical foul against San Diego State’s Jamaal Franklin in the second half, Walker outdueled Aztecs point guard D.J. Gay, who scored 16 points and trimmed UConn’s second-half lead to 65-64 on a 3-pointer with 2:53 to play. 
Lamb replied with his 3, and his emphatic last-second dunk set off a celebration in the sec­tion of thoroughly outnumbered UConn fans at Honda Center, just 90 minutes up the inter­state from San Diego. 
Gay scored 16 points for the second-seeded Aztecs (34-3), who couldn’t quite catch up to the Huskies down the stretch. Kawhi Leonard had 12 points and nine rebounds but never dominated inside, while Billy White added 14 points and Malcolm Thomas had 13 points and eight rebounds. 
Walker scored 14 points in the first half to stake UConn to a 36-27 lead during a 19-5 run, but the Aztecs replied with an 11-2 surge early in the second half. Thousands of San Diego State fans who sold out every home game on campus this sea­son turned the Honda Center into Montezuma Mesa North, singing along to their favorite pep-band songs and thoroughly drowning out the UConn cross-country travelers. 
Walker’s layup put UConn up 40-32 early in the second half, but the Aztecs finally remem­bered they’re bigger and taller than the Huskies, repeatedly using their advantages to set up open shots while keeping Walker’s teammates from get­ting comfortable. 
Gay’s free throws put the Aztecs ahead 43-42 with 13 minutes left, and back-to-back buckets put San Diego State up 53-49 with 9:19 to play — but Walker even managed to turn that to the Huskies’ advantage. 
After Franklin made a steal and fed White for a layup, Franklin and Walker exchanged a little trash talk. On the way back to their benches moments later, Franklin and Walker bumped shoulders — and Walker went crashing to the floor, drawing a technical foul and hitting both free throws. 
Except for two regular-season meetings with BYU, the Aztecs were perfect throughout the winningest season in school his­tory. San Diego State obliterated the school record for victories and won the Mountain West tournament before knocking off Northern Colorado and Temple for its first two NCAA tourna­ment victories. 
But UConn’s road was rockier, with a 9-9 regular-season mark in the Big East. With three freshmen in their starting line­up, most expected the Huskies to need another year before contending for big prizes. 
UConn has been streaking ever since its regular season ended with four losses in five games. After Walker drove them to the Big East tourna­ment title in dramatic fashion, and the Huskies knocked off Bucknell and Cincinnati in the first two rounds behind Walker, Huskies, who also came out of who already has obliterated the this region during their runs to single-season school scoring the 1999 and 2004 national record. titles, along with their trip to 


The West Coast vibe suits the the 2009 Final Four. 

WTA 

Sole U.S. player remains 

No. 11 Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 2006 champion, swept Simona Halep 6-0, 6-4. 
In men’s play, Kei Nishikori advanced to a second-round match Saturday against top-ranked Rafael Nadal by beat­ing Jeremy Chardy 7-6 (5), 6-2. Radek Stepanek will next play Roger Federer after beating Fabio Fognini 6-3, 7-6 (5). Pablo Cuevas will face 2010 champion Andy Roddick next after defeating Michael Berrer 6­4, 7-6 (2). 
Mattek-Sands has ties to South Florida, and she gave 20 tickets for her match to friends and relatives. But the home-court advantage didn’t help, and neither did her typically flashy outfit, which included silver sneakers, knee -high socks and eye black. 
She fell to 1-16 against top-10 players. 
Such is the state of U.S. tennis. But the 26-year-old Mattek-Sands said the out­look for the next generation 

move. is promising. “We’ll have a top-10 player “I think we have a lot of 
again.” good juniors coming up,” she Seeded players were in said. “I don’t think it’s as 
action for the first time after drastic as everyone makes it 
having byes in the open­ing round. Among those eliminat ­ed were No. 10 Sh ahar Peer, No. 13 Flavia Pennetta and No. 18 Nadia Petrova. 
Peer 
“It’s baby steps. It’s a lot better than it was a year ago. We’re making progess. A lot of the younger generation is starting to make their move.” 
Mary Joe Fernandez 
U.S. Fed Cup captain 
seem. But we definitely want to get some Americans up in the top 20.” 
Wozniacki, coming off her 14th career title last week at Indian Wells, erased eight of the 10 break points she faced. Wozniacki hit only five win­ners but com-

was beaten by Anabel Medina Garrigues 6-2, 6-2. Pennetta lost to Iveta Benesova 6-3, 6-0. Petrova retired because of dizziness trailing Sabine Lisicki 4-6, 6­3, 3-1. 
No. 4 Sam Stosur beat Zheng Jie 6-2, 6-1, and No. 6 Jelena Jankovic eliminated Monica Niculescu 6-3, 6-1. 
mitted just 15 unforced errors to 49 for Mattek ­Sands. 
“Bethanie is a tough player to play,” Wozniacki said. “You never know what to expect from her, and she’s going for her shots no matter where she’s standing on the court, and it’s difficult to get the rhythm.” 


Maldonado 
continued from page 24 
good team and a great team are getting the small, impor­tant things done.” 
Maldonado has been out of commission due to an injury since the team’s participa­tion in the Judi Garman Classic in California over spring break, during which the Irish (16 -6) went 4-4 against tough competition. The time off has left Maldonado more than ready to return to the field. 
“I’ve been going easy for the past week due to a minor back injury, but I hope that this good amount of rest should have me ready to go for the game tomorrow, ” Maldonado said. 
Named Big East Player of the Week in late February, the junior from Short Hills, N.J., is one of the best hit­ters and a key member of the Irish offense. 
The downtime due to the cancellation of Wednesday’s games has allowed the Irish to practice their fundamen­tals and think about the upcoming game against the Huskies (10-11). 
When asked about their success so far and their hopes for the remainder of the season, Maldonado was optimistic about the direc­tion the team is headed. She recognized their potential as well as the work it will take to fulfill it. 
“So far our season has been good,” Maldonado said. “We have found things we need to work on in order to play consistently at the next level. We definitely have the potential to make it past regionals — we just have to put everything together.” 
Notre Dame faces Northern Illinois in its first home game at Melissa Cook Stadium today at 5 p.m. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Three days into the Sony Ericsson Open, only one American remains in the women’s draw — Uzbekistan -born Varvara Lepchenko. 
Three U.S. women lost in the second round Thursday, including Bethanie Mattek-Sands, who was eliminated by No. 1-ranked Caroline Wozniacki, 6-2, 7-5. With Serena and Venus Williams sidelined for health reasons, Mattek-Sands was the high­est-ranked American in the draw at No. 43. 
American qualifier Jamie Hampton lost to No. 21-seed­ed Andrea Petkovic 6-2, 7-5, and American Melanie Oudin was beaten by No. 29 Daniela Hantuchova 6-1, 6-3. 
“Without the Williams sis­ters, it definitely adds some pressure for us for sure, especially for tournaments in the States,” said Oudin, a surprise U.S. Open quarterfi­nalist in 2009. “Everyone is going to keep trying. It’s not like we’re all getting down on ourselves.” 
The lone American left was the No. 82 -ranked Lepchenko, who has lived in the United States since 2000 and became a citizen this year. She plays a second-round match Friday. 
Only seven Americans made the 96-player women’s field, including two wild cards and two qualifiers — a reflection of the decline in 
U.S. 
tennis fortunes in recent years. 

“We all hear it, because people do say it,” Oudin said. “But all of us are trying to push each other to move up in the rankings together. That would be good.” 

U.S. 
Fed Cup captain Mary Joe Fernandez found cause for encouragement in some results at Key Biscayne. Sloane Stephens, 18, and Jamie Hampton, 21, made the draw through qualifying, and four American women won their opening match. 


“It’s baby steps,” Fernandez said. “It’s a lot better than it was a year ago. We’re making progress. A lot of the younger genera­tion is starting to make their 


Sooners 
continued from page 24 
nament in four years. It should be interesting.” 
The Irish met and beat the Sooners in the second round of the 2008 NCAA tourna­ment, a game that also went to overtime. 
Oklahoma knocked off No. 3-seed Miami over the week­end to advance to the second weekend of play. Sophomore guard Whitney Hand pow­ered the Sooners with 27 points, five rebounds and four assists in the winning effort. Hand, senior forward Carlee Roethlisberger and freshman guard Aaryn Ellenberg contributed 11 made 3-pointers in the game. 
Senior guard Danielle Robinson, who scored 18 points in the matchup against the Hurricanes, leads the team with an average of 
18.4 points per game. 
“We need to challenge them on the perimeter,” McGraw said. “We’ve been defending the perimeter bet­ter lately. It should be a great matchup.” 
Frontcourt domination is key for the Irish to get to the Final Four. 
The emergence of fresh­man forward Natalie Achonwa during the past few weeks, along with powerful play from senior forwards Devereaux Peters and Becca Bruszewski, have highlighted Notre Dame’s frontcourt capabilities this tournament. 

“Rebounding is key,” McGraw said. 
The Irish and the Sooners will hit the court in Dayton, Ohio, at 2 p.m. Saturday. The winner will advance to play either No. 1-seed Tennessee 

or No. 4-seed Ohio State Monday, with a trip to the Final Four on the line. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
MLB 

Ross fghts for a spot in Oakland rotation 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — Tyson Ross is making it hard on his manager. 
Bob Geren needs to pick a fifth starter, and Ross hasn’t done anything to eliminate himself from consideration. 
Well, almost anything. He did finally give up a run on Thursday, in another stellar outing in Oakland’s 15-7 win over Arizona. 
“He’s throwing the ball well,” Geren said. “He was so efficient today.” 
Ross gave up one run on four hits in 5 2-3 innings. It was the first run the 6-foot-6 right-han­der has allowed in 15 1-3 innings this spring. 
“I liked the command of his fastball,” Geren said. “That’s the key to his success. The velocity and movement is always there.” 
Kurt Suzuki and David DeJesus each had three RBIs and Kevin Kouzmanoff hit a solo home run and added an RBI single for Oakland. 
Ross is in contention with Brandon McCarthy and Bobby Cramer. McCarthy has a 3.05 ERA, 14 strikeouts and zero walks in 20 2-3 innings this spring. Cramer has an 8.25 ERA with five strikeouts and four walks in 12 innings. 
“My sinker was pretty good when (catcher Suzuki) called it, and I threw some changeups in there to get them off balance and my slider had some bite to it,” Ross said. 
Geren said he’s not ready to announce a role for Ross yet. 
“We’re just running everybody out there and letting them have success and will sort it out at the end,” he said. 
Arizona’s Joe Saunders had another tough start, allowing five runs on six hits in five innings. He struck out four but also walked four. Saunders has given up 19 runs in 13 2-3 innings. David Winfree led the Diamondbacks with two RBIs. 
“I felt good. The first two innings went pretty smooth,” said Saunders, who retired the first six batters he faced. “The third inning, I had some tough things 
— a couple broken-bat hits, a couple walks. There was only on hard-hit ball in that inning. Got through that then made on bad pitch to Kouzmanoff (to lead off the fourth). Other than that, I threw the ball pretty well.” 
NHL 

Final weeks of season important for bottom teams 
ences. It promises to be a frantic The Canucks stretched their Red Wings coach Mike Babcock, ninth-place Carolina Hurricanes, 
Associated Press 

final 2½ weeks that will deter-lead over the Red Wings to 10 a Stanley Cup champion and who are on the outside looking 
NEW YORK — The Detroit Red mine who gets the first crack to points on Wednesday night with a three-time finalist. “But what the in. 
Wings know what it’s like to knock off the Canucks, Red 2-1 win at Detroit. Vancouver is measure is going to be for them New York lost that season-end­
carry such expectations into the Wings and other prime con-up by eight points on Eastern is what they do in playoff time — ing shootout to Philadelphia last 
postseason. The Vancouver tenders. Conference-leading Philadelphia, just like it is for us.” year and missed the playoffs by 
Canucks do not. “Obviously, if we’re going to looking to wrap up its first The Red Wings have captured that scant point. The Rangers That’s what makes the upcom-wind up on top of the conference, Presidents’ Trophy. the Presidents’ Trophy, given to carried a season-best, five-game 
ing Stanley Cup playoffs as wide we should be the favorites,” said However, finishing first overall the team with the best regular-winning streak into Thursday 
open as can be. NHL leading scorer Daniel Sedin doesn’t guarantee playoff success season record, six times since it night’s game against Ottawa. While the top of the NHL stand-of the Canucks. “If we can play — especially for a team that isn’t was created for the 1985-86 sea-“Continuing to get points will 
ings seems settled, much is to be this good for 82 games, we used to a target on its back. son. They went on to win the lock down that playoff spot, and 
decided at the bottom of the should be able to do it in the “You see their record, you don’t Stanley Cup only twice. everything else is a bonus,” for-
Eastern and Western confer-playoffs.” win every night by accident,” said There have been just seven ward Brandon Dubinsky said. teams in 24 seasons to win both “We knew we had to get on a bit trophies. The Red Wings have as of a roll to create separation and many titles — two — in years solidify our playoff spot.” they didn’t nab the Presidents’ The Sabres have played well Trophy as those in which they down the stretch. With star goalie did. Ryan Miller leading the way, they In the East last year, the con-easily could be this year’s eighth­ference finals featured the sev-seeded upstart to scare — and enth-seeded Flyers, who didn’t even beat — the powerhouses. secure a playoff spot until win-“The playoff race is great. It’s ning a shootout on the final day been great for hockey, it’s been of the season, and the eighth-real good for us,” Sabres coach seeded Montreal Canadiens. Lindy Ruff said. “The compete The Flyers aren’t facing any-level inside the games has been where near that kind of drama awesome because there hasn’t this year. Their only concern is been a team that’s been out of it. staying in first over the hard-Every team is right there.” charging Washington Capitals, With teams having anywhere who were just one point back from eight to 10 games left Thursday with eight games before the season ends on April remaining — two fewer than 10, only six of 30 entered Philadelphia. Thursday more than 10 points Washington, and star captain out of a playoff spot. There were Alex Ovechkin, know all too well 20 teams within five points. about playoff pitfalls following a In the West, 10th-place Calgary stellar regular season. The was only 10 points behind No. 2 Capitals had the NHL’s best Detroit and three points out of record this time last year before fifth. None of that will matter if being bounced out by the they can’t get over the hump into Canadiens in the first round the top eight. despite holding a 3-1 series lead. “You look at that three through The Canadiens are trying to eight and that can really change hold off the New York Rangers the next two weeks,” said for-for sixth in the East. New York ward Dany Heatley of the third-has opened a bit of a cushion as place San Jose Sharks. “You want it looks to return to the playoffs to have the highest seed as possi­after a one-year absence. The ble, obviously, for home ice and Rangers started Thursday three things like that. As far as who points behind Montreal, but only your matchup is going to be, it’s three points ahead of the Buffalo going to be a tough series no Sabres and six in front of the matter who it is.” 

Travel 
continued from page 24 
[mechanics] and it allowed us to practice on our field for the first time this season.” 
As of late, the Irish have struggled to find consistency at the plate. This has translated into a recent skid, as they have gone winless (0-3-1) in their past four contests. The strug­gling offense averages 3.7 runs per game and features a team batting average of .235. Aoki remains patient though, and said he is focusing on making the necessary improvements as the Irish begin Big East play. 
“We are working at getting the bats going,” Coach Aoki said. “We continue to get bet­ter at it, but it’s a matter of timely hitting that we have struggled with. Along with that, our defense has been adequate, but not great.” 
The Irish could use some timely hitting — and fast. The Hoyas are averaging 7.7 runs per game and boast six players with batting averages above .300 to Notre Dame’s one, freshman first baseman Trey Mancini (.333). The Georgetown bats are led by junior right fielder Rand Ravnaas, who is third in the Big East with a .409 average and second with five home runs. The dual-threat junior also leads the conference in hits (36) and stolen bases (17). 
To combat the potent Georgetown lineup, the Irish will send senior right-hander Brian Dupra (2-2) to the hill. The senior has been Notre Dame’s most consistent arm this year, posting an earned run average of 2.38, comple­mented by 35 strikeouts, third most in the Big East. 

But the right-hander strug­gled in his last start, an 11-2 loss to Iowa Saturday where he gave up six runs —all in the second inning — and 12 hits over five innings. Dupra will face off against fellow senior right-hander Alex Meyer (3-1) in tonight’s series opener. 
The Irish bats have the opportunity to break out of their slump against a Hoyas pitching staff that has strug­gled with control, giving up 13 home runs and 76 walks to go along with a combined earned run average of 4.10. 
“Any opportunity to play in the conference is important,” Aoki said. “We have been play­ing for the past month, so it’s not early in the year anymore, but it is important to continue to improve.” 
Notre Dame will host Georgetown at Frank Eck Stadium tonight at 5:35 p.m. and Saturday at 2:05 p.m. The series will conclude Sunday at 
1:05 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Seniors 
continued from page 24 

ed a foundation for strong performance. 
“I would say the seniors as a whole, [by showing] good leadership, being good role models on the team, working hard, focusing on details and not being distracted, are doing an excellent job and I think they’re a key to how we’ve trained this year and how we’ve performed so far.” 
The Irish will compete against Indiana and Purdue in Indianapolis Sunday, with races beginning at 10 a.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish seek to even record 

By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Despite a No. 10 national ranking to begin the season, a 3-4 start has dropped the Irish out of the top-25. Starting this weekend, the squad looks to make the necessary adjust­ments to break back in. 
Despite their troubles, the Irish can reach .500 with a victory against Hofstra Sunday. 

Notre Dame pulled out a 13­12 win against the Pride last year thanks to senior captain Shaylyn Blaney’s career-high six goals, including the game winner. Fellow senior captain Jackie Doherty said Hofstra will be a difficult matchup. 
“Hofstra is an athletic team,” she said. “I expect that they’ll give us a tough game.” 
The Irish failed to score in the second half of regulation during their double-overtime game against Cornell Sunday, losing 6-5. Against the Pride, they will look to get their offense back on track. 
Doherty said doing so will take some more careful attacking. 
“One of the big keys is once we get possession, holding on to the ball a little longer,” Doherty said. “We’re definitely a fast-break team, but we need to work on being more patient at times.” 
As a leader on a struggling team, Doherty said she assumes some responsibility and looks for ways to improve. 
“I feel really disappointed about how we’ve started,” she said. “Obviously none of us imagined it going this way. As a captain, I have to look at how my leadership could change and how we can get better and get back to playing how we know we can play.” 
According to Doherty, the disappointing start has fueled additional competition in practice. She said her role as captain is to present a good example for her teammates in order to reach a level of con­sistency. 
“At this point, everyone’s playing for a starting spot in practice,” Doherty said. “We’ve had glimpses of great play, but we need to be more consistent. I just try to lead by example by going 100 percent in every game and every prac­tice and letting people know what’s acceptable, and then trying to correct mistakes.” 
The Irish will take on Hofstra (3-5) in New York Sunday at noon. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


FENCING 

ND kicks off strong start at championships 

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame showed no signs of being rattled by the high expectations placed on them prior to the NCAA championships, as the Irish asserted themselves as the team to beat on day one of the competition at Ohio State. 
Notre Dame registered 61 points on the first day of action, which gave them an eight point lead over second place Penn State and a 21 point lead of the next closest competition, St. John’s. Ohio State and Harvard both have 39 points to round out the top five. 
The Irish had four out ­standing individual perform­ances from seniors Avery Zuck, Barron Nydam, junior Reggie Bentley and freshman Ariel DeSmet. Each fencer registered at least 10 wins and DeSmet led the team with 12 victories. 
DeSmet and Bentley led the way in the foil, while Zuck and Nydam tallied their points in the saber competi­tion. 
The Irish also received contributions from sopho­more James Kaull and senior Brent Kelly, who is partici­pating in his first NCAA championships, in the epee competition. Kaull finished the day with an impressive 9-5 record and Kelly tallied a record of 8-6. 
The men’s portion of the championships will finish on Friday. The top four finishers in each competition will par­ticipate in semifinal 15-touch bouts to determine the indi­vidual champions. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Florida edges BYU 83-74 in overtime 

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — BYU had the best scorer on the court. Florida had the best team. 
Alex Tyus scored 19 points and grabbed 17 rebounds as Florida beat BYU 83-74 in over­time Thursday night, chasing Jimmer Fredette and the Cougars out of the NCAA tour­nament. 
While Fredette was the star attraction, scoring 32 points on 11 for 29 shooting in the final game of his college career, Florida countered with balance. 
Kenny Boynton added 17 points while Erving Walker and Chandler Parsons both scored 
16. Boynton and Parsons each hit 3-pointers in overtime as Florida outscored BYU 15-6. 
Fredette made just 3 of 15 from 3-point range and had to work for his points against Florida’s physical defense. By the end of the game, he had a bandage on his chin from a blow in the second half, but the baskets kept coming until he was held scoreless in overtime. 
When the outcome became apparent with one minute remaining, BYU coach Dave Rose subbed out Fredette, bringing a standing ovation from the crowd. 
Florida (29-7) eliminated BYU (32-5) and reached its first regional final since 2007. 
The Gators led for much of the first half, but BYU rallied to tie the game at 36 by halftime. 
Florida was almost unstop­pable early, making 10 of its first 13 shots and leading by 10 points early. But the Gators cooled dramatically from that point, making just 4 of 13 from the field and 1 of 6 from the free-throw line in the first half. 
Fredette, who came into the game as the nation’s leading scorer at 28.8 points per game, missed his first six shots from the field. But the Cougars were able to tread water thanks to Jackson Emery and Stephen Rogers, who combined to hit five 3-pointers in the first half. 
Fredette was held scoreless for nearly 14 minutes before hitting a layup with 6:17 remaining in the first half. He made four of his next seven shots to finish the half with 10 points. 
The Gators double-teamed Fredette occasionally, but usu­ally guarded him one-on-one with Kenny Boynton or Scottie Wilbekin. Fredette was bumped several times while trying to finish layups, and two of his first three shots were blocked. 
But fouls were hard to come by, despite Fredette’s occasional glares toward officials and the anger from the vastly pro-BYU crowd at New Orleans Arena. 
By midway through the sec­ond half, Fredette’s chin was bleeding and he came out of a timeout sporting a white band­age. But it didn’t stop him. 
He brought the crowd to its feet with 4:56 remaining, nail­ing a 3-pointer from 30 feet away to tie the game at 63. 
But Florida wasn’t rattled, making several big shots. Tyus did the vast majority of his damage in the most cruical moments, with 12 points and 11 rebounds after halftime. 
The Gators had the last shot in regulation, but Parsons missed a contested layup with one second remaining. 
Compared to the tense final moments of the second half, overtime was anticlimatic. Tyus hit a layup and Boynton made a short jumper to give Florida a 72-68 lead and the Gators cruised from there as Fredette’s 3-pointers wouldn’t fall. 
BYU beat Florida 99-92 in double overtime in the first round of last year’s NCAA Tournament. 
BYU finished the season with the most wins in school history and made the round of 16 for the first time since 1981, when another famous Cougars guard, Danny Ainge, was the star. 
TRACK & FIELD 

Irish succeed in Alabama 
The Alabama Relays began on Thursday, and although the Irish only had four ath­letes in the competition, each came ready to play. 
The Irish featured three athletes finish in the top-20 in the men’s decathlon at the event. Senior Justin Schneider came in second place, sophomore Dean Odegard came in seventh place and fellow sophomore Alex Bavis finished in 19th place. 
Junior Maddie Buttinger stood out on the women’s 
s i d e  b y  c o m i n g  i n t h i r d  
p l a c e  o v e r a l l  i n  t h e  
decathlon.  

22 athletes travel to Palo Alto, Calif., for the Stanford Invitational that takes place Friday and Saturday. The Notre Dame distance run­ners will have a chance to qualify for NCAA regionals during the competition. 
Notre Dame’s All ­American distance medley relay team will be compet­ing at Stanford as well. Graduate student and 2009 cross country All-American Lindsey Ferguson will be participating for the Irish. 
The Arizona State Invitational held on Friday and Saturday also provides an opportunity for the sprinters and field competi­tors, 23 in all, to qualify for the regionals. 
All -American freshman Patrick Feeney leads the sprinters in the relay, while senior Rudy Atang hopes to finish his illustrious shot-putting career at Notre Dame strong with an NCAA berth. 


als. The contests should pro-
Observer Staff Report 

vide a glimpse of how the 
The Irish travel to differ-team stacks up against elite ent regions of the country competition with the Big this weekend to participate East championships quickly in three separate invitation-approaching. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

No. 19 Irish struggle against No. 20 Georgia Tech 
Observer Staff Report 
A trip to Atlanta concluded in disappointment, as the Irish fell 5-2 to Georgia Tech. Singles brought the most surprising out­comes of the day, with freshmen stepping forward to earn victories as third-ranked junior Kristy Frilling fell for the first time in singles play this season. 
The No. 19 Irish entered the competition with a 9-7 record hot off a 5-2 win over Tennessee. No. 
20 Georgia Tech carried a 7-5 record into the match following a 4-3 triumph over No. 14 Vanderbilt. The Yellow Jackets have three ranked singles ath­letes, the highest of which is No. 49 Jillian O’Neill. 
The Yellow Jackets put away the Irish Thursday, taking the doubles point and four of six sin­gles matches. The No. 1 singles match began the downward spi­ral, as Frilling fell to O’Neill 6-3, 6-0. 
From there, the Irish struggled to find a rhythm. On the No. 2 court, No. 38 junior Shannon Mathews fell to No. 82 Viet Ha Ngo 6-4, 7-6. Senior Kristen Rafael was unable to overcome No. 83 junior Caroline Lilley in the No. 3 singles match, falling 7-6, 6­
2. Sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan faced sophomore Elizabeth Kilborn in No. 5 singles, but after three sets fell 6-1, 4-6 and 6-2. 
Despite the difficulties the 



upperclassmen faced, two Irish freshmen managed to find suc­cess. 
Freshman Jennifer Kellner, now ranked No. 107, moved up to the No. 4 singles spot and faced sen­ior Sasha Krupina. The first set went in Krupina’s favor, when she took six points to Kellner’s four. After that, Kellner took the match, winning the remaining two sets 7­6 and 10-8. 
At the No. 6 spot, freshman Julie Sabacinski took both sets against junior Lynn Blau 7-6, 6-3. 
In doubles play, the No. 33 pair of Frilling and Mathews pulled out a victory, the lone doubles win for the Irish. The pair defeated Ha Ngo and O’Neill 8-6 at the No. 1 spot. McGaffigan and Rafael lost a close 9-8 match to Krupina and Kilborn, while Kellner and Sabacinski were unable to carry forward their singles wins, falling to Blau and Lilley 8-3. 
The Irish have a break this weekend and resume play at home April 1 against Long Beach State at 4 p.m. 
NHL 

Predators end Ducks’ four-game win streak 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Sergei Kostitsyn scored two goals, both in the first period, as the Nashville Predators beat the Anaheim Ducks 5-4 on Thursday night. 
Nick Spaling, Jordin Tootoo and David Legwand also scored for Nashville, which has won five straight games. Tootoo and Spaling each added an assist. 
Teemu Selanne scored two power-play goals, and Corey Perry also had two goals for Anaheim, which had its four-game winning streak stopped. 
With 1:40 left in the second period, Tootoo took a shot in the slot that bounced off the leg pads of Dan Ellis and into the net to give the Predators a 4-1 lead. 
The Predators stretched the lead to 5-1 in the third period as Legwand scored a short-handed goal that bounced off the far post and in at 9:29. 
Anaheim scored 10 seconds later on the power play as Selanne skated in and shot the puck just under the cross bar. At 15:24, Selanne struck again on the power play as the puck bounced off the stick of Nashville’s Ryan Suter and into the net. 
Perry was credited with his 42nd goal with 27 seconds left as the puck bounced off the skate of Suter and went in under the crossbar. 
For the second game in a row, the Predators opened the scor­ing. At 2:04 of the first period Patric Hornqvist took a shot from the left side of the net. The puck bounced off Anaheim goalie Jonas Hiller and bounced around in front of the goal. Kostitsyn tapped it into the open side of the net as Hiller was slow to recover after stopping Hornqvist’s shot. 
Spaling gave the Predators a 2­0 lead at the 11:18 mark. Jonathon Blum took a shot that went wide to the left of the net and bounced off the back wall. Spaling skated in from the left side and shot the puck under Hiller’s outstretched leg pad from close range. 
Kostitsyn scored his second goal of the night 19 seconds later. Hornqvist took a shot from inside the right board above the faceoff circle. Kostitsyn, sta­tioned in front of the goal, redi­rected the puck into the net. 
After that goal, Oilers coach Randy Carlyle removed Hiller from the game and replaced him with Ellis, a former Predators goaltender. Hiller faced seven shots. 

NFL 

Auburn employees fle racial lawsuit 

Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. — Nine workers in the Auburn University athletic depart­ment who were laid off or reassigned filed a federal lawsuit Thursday accusing the school of racial discrimi­nation. 
The lawsuit against the uni­versity was filed in U.S. District Court. Five of the for­mer custodial workers were laid off last May. Four others were moved to other depart­ments during a reorganiza­tion after Auburn moved from Beard-Eaves Coliseum to the smaller new Auburn Arena, plaintiffs attorney Curtis Chandler Jr. said. 
Overall, 10 of the 11 employees who lost their ath­letic department jobs during reorganization were black, according to the lawsuit, which said that only one black employee who wasn’t a coach moved to the new building. 
“It just hits you in the face that it’s so overwhelmingly absurd and ridiculous that Auburn would do that,” said Montgomery attorney Julian McPhillips, who is represent­ing the plaintiffs. 
University spokesman Mike Clardy said school attorneys could not comment until they have seen the lawsuit. 
The suit seeks compensa­tory and punitive damages, court costs, and restoration of their old jobs with back pay and benefits. 
“All plaintiffs aver that the race discrimination practiced against them has been sys­tematic, endemic and reflec­tive of a long-term practice of intentional race discrimina­tion practiced by defendant Auburn University against black employees, especially in the Athletic Department,” the suit states. 
It alleges discrimination against them in receiving promotions and in their pay level compared to white employees, who also allegedly were allowed more overtime than black employees. But the complaints also range from a receptionist not for­warding email to a black employee and the allocation of football tickets. 
All the employees filed com­plaints against Auburn with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission last June, according to the law­suit. McPhillips said EEOC has not acted on the com ­plaints or sent a right-to-sue notification, but cited another statute that he said allows the suits to go forward. 
McPhillips said only 2 per­cent of Auburn’s athletic department employees, excluding coaches, were black before the reorganiza­tion. There were no fulltime black employees, the suit said, in turf management, media relations, marketing, sports medicine, athletic training, equipment, the tick­et office and recruiting. 
Six of the plaintiffs attended a news conference at McPhillips’ office, two wear­ing Auburn shirts. 
Plaintiff Curtis Chandler Jr., who has worked for Auburn for some 17 years, became the athletic department ’s maintenance superintendent in 2000 and was transferred last October to the Student Activities Center, the lawsuit said. Chandler, who said he did not receive a pay cut, contends he has been harassed and moved to a lesser job in retaliation for his EEOC complaint. According to that filing, he was making $39,289 as of June. 
The lawsuit also said Chandler was not interviewed for a supervisor’s position at the new arena, which went to a white employee with no supervisory experience. 
The other plaintiffs are: Antonio Floyd, Walter Hughley, Teresa Ligon, Eddie 
J. Mackey, Ernest Ross, Pamela Oliver, Sizzy Townsend and Marquetia Williams. 
Williams and Townsend both said they were offered jobs at the same pay with an 
outside contractor for six months and lower pay and no benefits for the first year. Both said they declined and are still unemployed. Williams said she lost her mobile home and car to fore­closure. 
Mackey said he was demot­ed. Floyd said the transfer left him and the other remaining employees unable to receive the overtime pay that came with the sporting events at the coliseum. 
“You can base your income off that,” Floyd said, “but when they take all that way from you, you’re back down to ground zero.” 


Rogers 
continued from page 22 

Rogers to capture a victory, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said this year’s squad has room for improvement. 
“We’re not going to beat ourselves up,” Corrigan said, “but we just need to keep working to be the team that we think we can be, and I do not want our guys to settle for less than what we think we can be as a team…we know we can play better, and hope­fully we are all focused and working on doing that.” 
The team’s competitiveness, a trait that has proven incred­ibly valuable against higher-level opposition, has sustained Notre Dame’s perfect record despite imperfect play. 
Four of Notre Dame’s first five opponents are currently ranked in the top-20 national­ly, and the fifth, Drexel, has received multiple votes for a national ranking. 
“Competitively, our guys have done a great job,” Corrigan said. “I am excited for them that they have found a way to do that.” 
Consistently finding them­selves in tight match-ups with talented teams, the Irish rely on outhustling the opposition to tough out the win. 
“Our big thing is always working hard, playing as hard as we can,” freshman faceoff specialist Liam O’Connor said. “Sometimes we are not play­ing that well but we always try to make the hustle play and get the next ground ball.” 
Their extensive experience in tight situations should give the Irish a decided advantage over Rutgers if the game proves close. The Scarlet Knights’ seven games have been decided by an average of 
7.7 goals per game difference between the winner and loser. For the Irish, that number is 2.6. 
“I think [our experience] helps us a lot when it gets down to the wire,” O’Connor said. “We tend to keep our poise in the fourth quarter in those close games and make sure that we keep ourselves under control and make sure we have enough poise to make that last play, to get that last goal.” 
Still, Corrigan realizes that Rutgers will offer a substan­tial challenge to his battle-tested Irish team. 
“They are a young team, but they are very well-coached,” Corrigan said. “They have a really good sense of them­selves and how they want to play, so I think we will see a kind of ball-control game where they will try to limit the possessions and make us work at both ends of the field, probably not dissimilar to what we just saw with the Ohio State game.” 
Corrigan says he hopes his team will show improvement from Wednesday’s game against the Buckeyes. In par­ticular, he wants to see his players demonstrate increased consistency on both offense and defense. 
“I think our offensive con­sistency and our ability to fin­ish our opportunities are the two things that I’d like to see us improve on the most,” he said. “Defensively, [the goal is] just to play 60 minutes. I think we have played some outstanding defense at times but then we have given up some goals and runs and I would like to see us eliminate that.” 
The Irish will take the field against Rutgers Saturday at noon. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  
21  22  23  
24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  
55  56  
57  58  


CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Crossbar supporter 9 2009 “Survivor” setting 14 Attempt 
16 Like wearingsocks on yourhands 
17 “Be that as it may …” 
18 Four-time presidentialcandidate 
19 “Isn't that so?,” to Rousseau 20 Roman leader? 
21 Sci-fi beeper 
22 Old doctor's supply 
24 Milquetoast ofold comics 
28 Stop order? 
29 Return a letter, say 
32 Venezuela's ___ Margarita 
33 2008 greatesthits album that includes the song “ProudMary” 
34 Palindromic name high onthe Forbes billionaires list 
35 Indicator of second thoughts 
36 Statement of resignation 
37 Peevish 
39 Knife injury 
40 Touch screen toucher 
41 Certifies 
43 They support TVviewers 
48 Take temporarily 
49 Creator of strange worlds 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


53 Unseen “Mork & Mindy” character 
54 Totals 
55 Common praenomenamong Roman emperors 
56 Bright schoolmember 
57 Blank ___ 
58 Considers beneath one's notice 
Down 
1 African soccer powerhousepopularly known as the Black Stars 
2 Gun show? 3 Stop order? 4 Slower than 
adagio 5 Bird in a Sean O'Casey title 6 Baddie in Perrault's tales 7 It may be found
in a dish 8 “Toodles” 9 Expose to flame 

10 Disorderly sort? 
11 Got a move on 
12 Like early life 13 Balloon, e.g. 15 Early radiotransmitter 
23 1974 Billboard hit with Spanishlyrics 
WILL SHORTZ 

 OROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Patrick Berry 
25 Run interference 33 More than a 46 Word in Kansas' for, e.g. quarter of native motto Filipinos, 47 Fur source 
26 Game animal? ethnically 50 ___ Research
27 Evasive answer Center (NASA 
38 “The Mambo lab in Silicon 
29 Involving both Kings” co-star Valley) sides 
42 Somehow know 
51 It comes before 30 1997 animated one
44 Mixer maker film set in Russia 
45 Handmade 52 Make less sharp, 31 Quits gambling things? maybe 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

MATING RITUAL DAVID MOMONT 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, March 25, 2011 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Sweet reunion 
McGraw looks to guide team past Sooners 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
For the ninth time in the last 15 seasons, the Irish have advanced to the NCAA Sweet 16. To advance even deeper, they will have to defeat a familiar opponent in the process. 
No. 2-seed Notre Dame (28­7, 13-3 Big East) will face No. 6-seed Oklahoma in the third round for the second consec­utive season. In 2010, the Sooners (23-11, 10-6 Big 12) defeated the Irish to advance to the Elite Eight with a 77-72 overtime victory. 

“I think we’re two different teams this year compared to last year,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We’ve both graduated players since then and injured players have come back. It’s the third time we’ve seen them in the tour-SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins dribbles away from a a Utah defender in the frst round of the see SOONERS/page 17 NCAA championships March 19. The Irish won 67-54. 

ND SOFTBALL 
We a t h e r provides prep time 
By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
After inclement weather led to the cancellation of Wednesday’s doubleheader against Eastern Michigan, the Irish used the extra time to prepare to face Northern Illinois in their home opener today. 
Junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said the team worked on improving their 
overall 
game by paying attention to the details. 

“We don’t have a specific plan other than what our goal has been all season,” Maldonado said. “We have been all about showing up and playing Notre Dame softball no matter who the team is. In order to prepare, 

our 
team has really been focusing on the little things. The difference between a 


see MALDONADO/page 16 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

Coach Stone determined to continue improving squad 
ning four out of five races in a allowed us to take the next Though getting better is of ducing, both now and in the
By SAM GANS 

meet against Buffalo March step this week and to row a lit-high importance for Sunday, future.
Sports Writer 

19. tle bit higher on the ranks.” that alone will not be satisfac-“For the NCAA [champi-Coach Martin Stone was Stone said the theme for the tory. onship], we need 20 rowers 
After a successful trip to Oak pleased with the trip’s results. squad is to continue improv-“Ultimately, we’d like to and 3 coxswains,” Stone said. Ridge, Tenn., during spring “I think [spring break] went ing. win,” he said. “If we do what “So everybody’s playing a criti­break, Notre Dame returns to well,” Stone said. “We accom-“We want to race better than we want to do and we do it cal role on our team and for action in its home state against plished a lot. We got a lot of we did last weekend,” he said. well, we’d hope to win.” the Big East, we need almost instate rivals Indiana and rowing in. My thoughts are “There were some areas in all While there are a number of double that. Take any one per-Purdue. The Irish travel to that it went well and it pre-our crews that we need to key individual rowers that the son out of any of the boats Indianapolis Sunday to com-pared us for the coming weeks. improve. We want to make Irish will rely on this weekend, [and] the boats might not go as pete against both schools. Everything kind of builds on sure that we make improve-including senior tri-captains fast.” 
Notre Dame won eight pieces itself throughout the year, so ments, do the things that we Emily Crosby, Stephanie But, as with any team, a in a tune-up race against training indoors prepared us did well last week again, and Gretsch and Carol Ann Michel, strong senior class has provid-Alabama and Minnesota March in a greater capacity to row for the things we didn’t do so well a good performance will 
13. They followed that by win-spring break and spring break be better at this week.” depend on the whole team pro-see SENIORS/page 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish defend perfect record 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Well, they aren’t perfect. Their goalie is inexperienced, their offense lacks consistency over four periods and their defense is prone to allowing opposing teams to score in bunches. And yet, as they sit at 5-0, it is undeniable that the Irish are, in fact, perfect. 
The No. 3 Irish look to main­tain their undefeated record as they prepare to face Rutgers (5-2) in Piscataway, N.J., dur­ing their first Big East game of the season. 
After a gritty win over Ohio State Wednesday, in which the Irish relied on a last-minute goal by junior attack Sean 
see ROGERS/page 22 

BASEBALL 

Big East play kicks off with Georgetown 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 

To begin a winning streak of their own to jumpstart the season, the Irish will have to break one held by a formida­ble Big East opponent — Georgetown. 
Notre Dame (7-10-1) opens Big East play with a three-game series starting tonight against the red-hot Hoyas (15-7), who are riding a seven-game winning streak after Tuesday’s 10-6 win over George Mason. 
The Irish have not played since Sunday’s 3-3 tie against Gonzaga due to inclement weather and rain, which postponed games against Oakland and Illinois-Chicago on Tuesday and Wednesday. But Irish coach Mik Aoki does not expect the extended break to affect the travel-weary Irish, who have yet to host a home game after ven­turing to tournaments in Florida, South Carolina and Texas. 
“It has been a normal week for us getting ready for Georgetown,” Aoki said of the days off. “We would usu­ally have the middle of the week to practice and travel on Thursday, so there isn’t much of a difference. But, yes, it helps to work on 
see TRAVEL/page 18 


Irish must calm nerves to advance 
Just four weeks ago, Notre Dame stood atop the college hockey world. The Irish were riding an eight-game unbeaten streak into the season finale against Western Michigan. A win against the Broncos — who they had beat­en 3-2 on the road the night before — would have given Notre Dame the CCHA regular season title. 
Instead, Western Michigan scored twice in the first 
11:20 of the game and the Irish couldn’t recover, falling 2-0 and ceding the CCHA crown to rival Michigan. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame headed to Joe Louis Arena in Detroit for the CCHA Championship. After a comfortable 4-2 win over Lake Superior State in the do-or-die third game of their second round playoff series, the Irish seemed poised to make some noise in the Motor City. 
Instead, the trip ended with a thorough 6-2 beating at the hands of Miami (Ohio) in the semifinals and a 4-2 loss to the Wolverines in the third-place game. Against the RedHawks, Notre Dame once again could not recover from an abysmal opening period, falling behind 4-0 before the first intermission. 
“We didn’t have as much fun,” senior right wing Ryan Guentzel said. “I think the big building kind of got to us Friday night, dug us a big hole and we couldn’t get out of it.” 
It’s understandable that a team as young as Notre Dame — with 12 freshmen on the roster — might expe­rience some stage fright in their first game playing for a trophy, or their first game in a 20,000-seat NHL arena. Now that it’s NCAA tourna­ment time, though, it’s time for the Irish to grow up fast. 
No matter how many high school or junior playoff games a player has experi­enced, there’s nothing quite like postseason NCAA hock­ey. After the past month, the freshmen have seen col­legiate playoff hockey with their own eyes. Even if it was not necessarily posi­tive, the younger players have experience — albeit limited — to draw on now if they face adversity against Merrimack or beyond. 
The Irish have plenty of reasons to be confident heading into the NCAA tournament. This team has been ranked in the top-10 all season for a reason, and they need to remember that when they arrive in Manchester this weekend. 


If the Irish weren’t a good team they would not have beaten defending national champion Boston College earlier in the season, nor would they boast wins at both Michigan and Miami. 
There are plenty reasons Notre Dame may not advance past this weekend — or even past Saturday night — but nerves should not be one of them. It’s up to senior captains Joe Lavin, Calle Ridderwall, Ben Ryan and Ryan Guentzel to keep the team calm and not let the big-game jitters get to them. There’s no better group of players to do it, either. Ridderwall, Ryan and Guentzel advanced to the Frozen Four as freshmen three years ago. Interestingly, that team also lost both games in Detroit before making its run to the championship game. 
Notre Dame has thrived all season on its loose atmosphere in the locker room. Older players have noted that the influx of freshmen have created a more carefree vibe around the program. When the team apparently stopped having fun off the ice — against Western Michigan and Miami — the Irish struggled on the ice. 
I’m not going to pretend I know what the Irish need to do to keep it loose in Manchester. Maybe it’s playing certain music in the locker room, playing practi­cal jokes on one another or just remembering that col­lege hockey is, at its roots, a whole lot of fun. Whatever Notre Dame needs to do to have fun on this trip, that will be the key to advancing to Saint Paul and the program’s sec­ond Frozen Four. 
This year’s team has set the Irish hockey program up nicely for the future. There’s no doubt that play­ers on the roster now will someday raise some ban­ners in the soon-to-be­ready Compton Center. Just because T.J. Tynan, Anders Lee and the other Irish freshmen have a bright future, though, doesn’t mean that winning can’t start now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
ND faces Merrimack in opener 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
After a disappointing end to the season, the No. 9 Irish have one final shot at glory as they enter the first round of the NCAA tour­nament, taking on No. 7 Merrimack in Manchester, N.H. 
“I know that it’s my last chance to win a championship,” senior center Ben Ryan said. “I just want to make the most of every day because my career here is almost over.” 
Notre Dame (23-13-5) came into the season with low expecta­tions but rode a strong perform­ance from the freshmen — who dominate the roster — to the top of the CCHA standings late in the season. Facing Western Michigan at home in the regular-season finale needing a win to clinch the crown, however, the Irish fell short by the count of 2-0. The slide was compounded when Notre Dame dropped a 6-2 deci­sion to No. 4 Miami in the confer­ence semifinals and then lost 4-2 to Michigan in the third-place game. 
“We have to overcome this par­alyzing factor that happens to us where we’re so nervous,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “I sense our team being focused, and yet we go out on the ice and it seems like we’re tentative and I don’t know if it’s a fear of making mis­takes or whatever it is. Hopefully after having gone through it we’ll be able to get back.” 
Jackson and the Irish are in an oddly familiar place, especially for the seniors. Three years ago, Ryan, senior left wing Calle Ridderwall and senior right wing Ryan Guentzel were freshmen on a team that made an unlikely run to the national championship game after a disappointing CCHA tournament in Detroit. 
“The juniors and seniors on this team want to get to the Frozen Four,” Jackson said. “Those kids know what hap­pened that year, and it came off of two losses in Detroit.” 
Notre Dame will face Merrimack (25-9-4) in its first-round game, and while the Warriors are not a traditional hockey power, Jackson knows that they are “the real deal.” What worries Jackson is that the Irish will look at the winner of the Miami (OH)/New Hampshire game — played directly before the Irish’s own game — and get caught looking ahead to its possi­ble regional final opponent. 
“If we look past Merrimack, we won’t be playing Miami,” Jackson said. “They’re going to be as good a team as we face this weekend, if not better — I couldn’t tell you. They’re right there with BC.” 
While Notre Dame’s youth may have contributed to some early high-pressure jitters, there is hope that the freshmen who played so well for most of the season will return — that their youth will lead to resilience. 
“With 12 freshmen and a cou­ple of sophomores that haven’t had the NCAA experience, the underdog mentality lets them be a little looser and a littler freer,” Guentzel said. “When we played BC [earlier in the season] we had that underdog mentality, and it was helpful for us.” 
Jackson, however, does not want to encourage an underdog mentality — or, for that matter, any storyline. He only wants his squad to focus on the task at hand. 
“I don’t want them thinking underdog, I don’t want them thinking overdog,” he said. “I want them to think about playing the way we’re capable of playing and not being nervous. They need to go out there and play.” 
The Warriors play in the Hockey East conference, which has a significantly more up-tempo style than Notre Dame’s CCHA. Hockey East games fea­ture fast-skating teams, and while the Irish play in a signifi­cantly more technical and physi­cal conference, they believe that their speed will match up well. 
“I think it’s going to work out well for us because we’re such a great skating team,” Lavin said. “We don’t want to get into a track meet, but we’ll be able to handle it for sure.” 
Jackson outlined a number of keys for success beyond his team’s mental preparation. Rather than focus on anything schematic against an opponent the Irish have not faced before this season, Jackson said his team will focus on fundamentals and discipline. 
“You have to play 60 minutes, first of all. You’ve got to play good special teams,” he said. “It really boils down to creating your own breaks, playing well with the puck, not turning the puck over. You have to make sure that you’re able to play four lines, and that means discipline, staying out of the penalty box.” 
Guentzel mentioned another important key for the young play­ers on the team, one that was sorely missing when Notre Dame fell behind 4-0 in the first period against the RedHawks last week­end. 
“The main thing for this team this year is getting off to good starts,” he said. “With a young team, I think getting off to a good start and giving them confidence to make plays is vital for us this weekend.” 
Selection Sunday provided Jackson with an opportunity to reflect on the season and his squad’s somewhat surprising success. 
“There were a lot of question marks for [the upperclassmen] heading into the season,” he said. “For a young group like this to make it to [the CCHA semifinals] and make the tournament is a real positive, but we’re not going to Manchester to lose.” 
Knowing that each game could be their last, Lavin said the four seniors will leave everything on the ice in their final quest for a program-defining title. 
“We don’t have another chance after this, so we don’t really have anything to look forward to in the future,” he said. “It’s do or die now.” 
The Irish face Merrimack at 
7:30 p.m. in Manchester Saturday. If Notre Dame wins, it will face the winner of the Miami-New Hampshire game Sunday at 8 p.m. 
Contact Allan Joseph ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Senior experience 
Seniors Lavin, Ryan, Ridderwall and Guentzel lead the youthful Irish into the NCAA tournament 
overtime was something that I after big wins.
By CHRIS ALLEN 
know me and Calle personally “Well, I mean, he likes to have 
Sports Writer 

will never forget.” fun, everybody knows that,” Though Ryan was not on the Guentzel said. “But he’s one of It was arguably the biggest ice for the 5-4 overtime winner the hardest working kids on the moment in Notre Dame hockey as Guentzel and Ridderwall team, in the weight room and history — the brightest lights, were, he shared in the memo-on the ice. Being able to man-the biggest stage and the top ries of the game. age all of those things, it shows opponent in the country. “I just remember, I think we the young guys that we can 
A shot from the high slot came out in the first period and have fun, but we know when to slipped past Michigan senior scored a bunch of goals. The get serious. We know when we goalie Bryan Hogan in overtime mindset going into that game have to work hard.” during the semifinal game of was the same kind of mindset While Ridderwall has spent a the 2008 Frozen Four, elevating we have now. I think Michigan chunk of the season sidelined the Irish to a place they have was No. 1 in the country. They with an injury, Guentzel has never been before — the had Kevin Porter, the Hobey enjoyed a career year, setting National Championship game — Baker Award winner, and he new highs in both goals and and right in the middle of the was the best player in the coun-assists en route to posting 37 action were three freshmen. try,” Ryan said. “They were points on the season, good for 
Left wing Calle Ridderwall obviously picked to win it all by third on the team. Guentzel scored the goal just feet away a majority of people, so we acknowledged his success this from a fellow freshman, Ryan went in there and thought that year, but said he doesn’t feel Guentzel. On the bench, center maybe they would fall victim to extra pressure going into his Ben Ryan poured over the wall the pressure. We tried to put a final postseason. to celebrate the goal with his lot of pressure on them and “We’ve had a great year so teammates. The moment was play our game.” far,” he said. “Just doing what the high point in a long Irish The goal in the Michigan you can to help the team is all hockey tradition — yet these game, the second of the contest that matters, if you compete were just kids. for Ridderwall, served as a your hardest, you have to be 
Fast forward three years, and springboard for the rest of the happy with what happens. the trio of Ryan, Guentzel and Swedish forward’s career. He There’s not that much pres-Ridderwall are three of four came back in the 2008-09 sea-sure.” members of an illustrious quar-son and 2009-10 seasons and Like his fellow assistant cap­tet of senior captains leading posted seasons of 17 and 19 tain and frequent line mate No. 9 Notre Dame (23-13-5) into goals respectively as a lead Guentzel, Ryan has also enjoyed its second NCAA tournament member of Irish coach Jeff a productive year on the ice as since that Frozen Four experi-Jackson’s attack. Though the the center on the top Irish lines. ence in 2008, which ultimately speedy wing has struggled Unlike Guentzel and ended in a 4-1 loss to Boston through injury in his senior Ridderwall, whose production College in the title game. As campaign, Jackson said his was limited in their freshman they prepare for their last development is evident. years despite their moment in chance to bring a first NCAA “I think that [Calle] took huge the Frozen Four, Ryan has been championship back to South strides in his sophomore and a consistent contributor Bend, the group of seniors junior years. This year, he’s had throughout his four years under remembers fondly the Frozen a good year,” Jackson said. “I Jackson. Four run that has defined their think the injury set him back, This season has been no dif­postseason careers thus far. because not only did it set him ferent, and the Brighton, Mich., 
“Three years, it seems so long back for the five games that he product has posted 18 assists ago, but I remember it like yes-was out, but he didn’t get back and 24 points over the course of he said. ments about the team’s close­terday. [The Michigan game] to being 100 percent until the the season. Jackson said one of The trio of seniors, all assis-knit nature. was one of the greatest games last couple weeks. I think it his main memories of Ryan’s tant captains, are joined in “This is the closest hockey that I’ve ever been a part of,” bodes well for us that he’s able career thus far was his stellar leadership by a transfer from team I’ve ever been a part of,” Guentzel said. “We were up big to get back to 100 percent.” play in the 2009 CCHA champi-Providence who ascended to the he said. on Michigan early, and then Off the ice, Ridderwall’s color-onship that helped the Irish sole captain’s role with less As the final group of seniors they came storming back. I ful personality has made him a bring home the title in Detroit. than a year’s experience on the to play in the Joyce Center, this remember sitting on the bench fan and teammate favorite — as “Benny, his moments at Joe ice with the Irish — defenseman group serves a special purpose saying, ‘This is so nerve-wrack-well as the source of many a Louis Arena [in Detroit] a cou-Joe Lavin. Though he is a sen-in closing the book on an era of ing’ and being able to go out techno song blasted at high vol-ple of years ago helped us win ior, and the other seniors have Irish hockey — an era that they there and get an opportunity in ume in the Irish locker room the CCHA Championship there,” multiple NCAA Tournament have capped with three NCAA 
games under their belt, tournament appearances in Saturday’s first-round matchup four years. Jackson said that with Merrimack will be Lavin’s regardless of the team’s play in first taste of NCAA action. The this upcoming tournament, he senior from Shrewsbury, Mass., would have lasting memories of said the other seniors have pre-the outgoing class of seniors. pared him mentally for what to “There’s always going to be a expect. lot of memories. I think that 
“[The others seniors have told Frozen Four experience and the me] it’s a different environment. Michigan game will be big Playoff hockey is playoff hockey. ones,” Jackson said. “It was It’s obviously going to be pretty Guentzel to Ridderwall that won exciting,” he said. “I think I that game in overtime and Calle have a little bit to contribute. scored two goals in that game. We’re playing Merrimack and But Joe Lavin has been an that’s a team that I’m obviously important part of this team as accustomed to, so they’ll be well. There are all different able to help me out and I’ll be kinds of memories that you able to help them and the team have. They’re not always on the out.” ice. Some of them are off the 
On a team that’s roster is ice.” nearly half composed of fresh-With the lights having gone men, the four Irish senior lead-out on the final full season in ers has grown close during the the Joyce Center, the Irish sen-process of leading such a young iors will lead Notre Dame to team through the season. Ryan Manchester, N.H. to face No. 7 said that the dynamic between Merrimack (25-9-4) while look-the four has brought them ing to surpass the memories together over hockey and the they made in their freshman successful 2010-11 season. season. 
“It’s really close-knit. Four “I fully believe that our team people is a really small class. has a chance to get back to the We started with seven guys, same spot,” Ryan said. “We’ve four of them are gone now, and played against the best teams in obviously we added Joe,” Ryan the country and competed with said. “We all live together, them. Hopefully, I’ll look back we’ve had a great season. on this year and remember it as We’ve mentioned numerous the best moment.” times to each other, this is our most fun year playing hockey.” Contact Chris Allen at 
Lavin echoed Ryan’s state-callen10@nd.edu 


Notre Dame 
2010-11 Schedule 
Record: 26-10-4 (18-7-3-2 CCHA) USCHO: 9 USA Today: 9 

Oct. 3  University of Guelph  W 5-3  
Oct. 8  Holy Cross (in St. Louis)  W 6-3  
Oct. 10  Boston U. (in St. Louis)  L 5-4  
Oct. 14  Lake Superior State  W 4-2  
Oct. 15  Lake Superior State  W 4-2  
Oct. 23  Boston College  W 2-1  
Oct. 29  Western Michigan  W 3-2  
Oct. 30  @ Western Michigan  T 2-2 (OT)  
Nov. 5  @BowlingGreen  L 3-2  
Nov. 6  @ Bowling Green  W 6-3  
Nov. 12  @ Michigan  W 3-1  
Nov. 13  @ Michigan  L 5-3  
Nov. 19  Michigan State  W 6-2  
Nov. 20  Michigan State  W 4-2  
Nov. 26  @ North Dakota  L 6-3  
Nov. 27  @ North Dakota  T 2-2 (OT)  
Dec. 3  @ Miami (Ohio)  W 5-4  
Dec. 4  @ Miami (Ohio)  L 5-2  
Dec. 11  Northern Michigan  L 3-2  
Dec. 12  Northern Michigan  W 5-2  
Dec. 29  Canisius  W 10-2  
Jan. 1  Minnesota State  L 4-3  
Jan. 2  Boston U.  T 3-3 (OT)  
Jan. 7  @ Northern Michigan  W 8-1  
Jan. 8  @ Northern Michigan  W 3-1  
Jan. 14  Alaska  W 2-1  
Jan. 15  Alaska  L 4-1  
Jan. 21  @ Ohio State  L 6-1  
Jan. 22  @ Ohio State  W 4-1  
Jan. 28  Miami (Ohio)  T 5-5 (OT)  
Jan. 29  Miami (Ohio)  T 2-2 (OT)  
Feb. 11  Bowling Green  W 2-1  
Feb. 12  Bowling Green  W 5-1  
Feb. 18  @ Ferris State  W 3-2  
Feb. 19  @ Ferris State  W 5-2  
Feb. 25  @ Western Michigan  W 3-2  
Feb. 26  Western Michigan  L 2-0  
CCHA PLAYOFFS  
March 11  Lake Superior State  W 3-2 (OT)  
March 12  Lake Superior State  L 4-3  
March 13  Lake Superior State  W 4-2  
March 18  Miami (Ohio) (in Detroit)  L 6-2  
March 19  Michigan (in Detroit)  L 4-2  

Notre Dame’s key players 


2011 NCAA Northeast Regional 
Conference tournament  Between the pipes  Conference tournament  Between the pipes  
result  Connor Knapp (2.03 GAA, .909  result  Joe Cannata (2.44 GAA, .911  
Won CCHA tournament with 5-2  save percentage)  Lost to Boston College 5-3 in  save percentage)  
win over Western Michigan  By the numbers  Hockey East championship game  By the numbers  
Top scorers Andy Miele (24 goals, 47 assists) Carter Camper (19 goals, 37 assists)  Goals per game: 3.8 Goals against per game: 2.2 Power play percentage: 25.1 Penalty kill percentage: 88 Shorthanded goals: 8  Top scorers Stephane Da Costa (14 goals, 30 assists) Chris Barton (14 goals, 25  Goals per game: 3.7 Goals against per game: 2.4 Power play percentage: 24.4 Penalty kill percentage: 84.3 Shorthanded goals: 8  
Reilly Smith (28 goals, 26 assists) Pat Cannone (14 goals, 23 assists)  Power play goals: 44 NCAA Tournament history  assists) Joe Cucci (14 goals, 22 assists) Ryan Flanigan (15 goals, 17  Power play goals: 44 NCAA Tournament history  
Alden Hirschfeld (12 goals, 13 assists)  Ninth appearance, 7-6 record, two Frozen Fours  assists) Jesse Todd (17 goals, 14 assists)  Second appearance  
Conference tournament result Lost to Merrimack 4-1 in Hockey East semifinals Top scorers Paul Thompson (28 goals, 24 assists) Mike Sislo (13 goals, 33 assists) Phil DeSimone (10 goals, 30 assists) Blake Kessel (5 goals, 21 assists) Stevie Moses (14 goals, 12 assists)  Between the pipes Matt Digirolamo (2.49 GAA, .921 save percentage) By the numbers Goals per game: 3.43 Goals against per game: 2.51 Power play percentage: 19.9 Penalty kill percentage: 83.1 Shorthanded goals: 3 Power play goals: 31 NCAA Tournament history 21st appearance, 13-22 record, 17 Frozen Fours  Conference tournament result Lost to Miami 6-2 in CCHA semifinals Top scorers T.J. Tynan (22 goals, 30 assists) Anders Lee (22 goals, 19 assists) Ryan Guentzel (6 goals, 31 assists) Billy Maday (8 goals, 16 assists) Ben Ryan (6 goals, 18 assists)  Between the pipes Mike Johnson (2.62 GAA, .903 save percentage) By the numbers Goals per game: 3.5 Goals against per game: 2.8 Power play percentage: 16.2 Penalty kill percentage: 81.7 Shorthanded goals: 12 Power play goals: 32 NCAA Tournament history Fifth appearance, 4-4 record, one Frozen Four  



After a pair of lopsided losses in Detroit, Notre Dame will need to learn how to play on the big stage in order to have any success this weekend. The Irish will have learned their lesson from big games down the stretch, and show up in Manchester ready to handle the pressure. Unfortunately, as 
much as the Notre Dame seniors deserve a trip to Saint Paul, this team seems to be just one year away. 
Notre Dame 5, Merrimack 3 Miami 3, Notre Dame 1 

Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 
On the one hand, there's the team that showed up for most of the season — confi­dent, fast and far from scared. On the other hand, there's the team that showed up once they got to the top of the confer­ence — nervous, tight and tentative. This time, though, there's nothing to get caught looking forward to. Irish coach Jeff 
Jackson will get the team past Merrimack, and the seniors will grind out a revenge win against Miami. 
Notre Dame 4, Merrimack 2 Notre Dame 4, Miami 3 (OT) 


Chris Allen 
Sports Writer 
This trip to New Hampshire has to feel eerily familiar to the Irish seniors. Back in 2008, after two losses in the CCHA Championship, the team headed to Colorado Springs rel­atively anonymously and turned things around to get to the Frozen Four. In a sim­ilar situation, this team has a good chance of pulling off 

the same result. They won't get the big-arena jitters in Manchester and the Irish seniors will get another shot at the title. 
Notre Dame 4, Merrimack 2 Notre Dame 5, Miami (OH) 4 

Sam Gans 
Sports Writer 
This season is shaping out very similar to 2008’s Frozen Four run. Just like three years ago, I expect the Irish will win the first round, as Merrimack is playing their first NCAA Tournament game since 1988. But after watching Miami have its way with Notre Dame just one week ago, I think the RedHawks, with their 

strong senior class, are on an absolute mission and I don’t know if Notre Dame’s youth can handle it, especially mentally. 
Notre Dame 4, Merrimack 3 Miami 5, Notre Dame 3 

NotreDame’sNCAAhistoryshowsmixedresults 
2008runtochampionshipgamehighlightsfourprevioustournamentappearances 
appointing0-2weekendatthe
By SAM GANS 
CCHA tournament in Detroit,
Sports Writer 
overlookedandcountedout. 
“My freshman year we were 

For many years, the NCAA in the same situation, coming tournament had eluded the off two losses,” senior right Notre Dame hockey program. wing Ryan Guentzel said. “We Until 2004, the Irish never went to Colorado Springs and competed in the extra season. kind of got away from here. But recently, Notre Dame par-We were able to do our own ticipation in the event has thing.Wejusthadthatkindof becomenearlycommonplace. underdog mentality. That’s 
This season marks the fifth what we’re going to go with time in history the Irish have thisweekend.” qualifiedfortheevent,includ-Of course, for the current ing the fourth in the past five seniors who were on the team years. Throughout the years, in 2008 — Ridderwall, there have been unexpected Guentzel,andcenterBenRyan triumphs and shocking fail-— the tournament has not ures,andmembersofthecur-alwaysbeenaskind. rent senior class have experi-One year after being in the enced both. But, no matter underdog role and making the whether the Irish exceeded or most out of it, the Irish were sunkbelowtournamentexpec-on the opposite end of the tations in a given year, one spectrum. Entering the 2009 thing has constantly remained tournament, Notre Dame was outofreach:anationalcham-a No. 1 seed and scheduled to pionship. play the last team in the field 
The Irish are on a quest to in Bemidji State. The result? change that this time around, An overwhelming 5-1 Bemidji and if history — or luck — is Statewin. on Notre Dame’s side, it will The two distinct results pro-haveagreatopportunitytodo vide interesting contrasts so. headingintoaregionalsemifi-
In 2008, Notre Dame went nalgame. limpingintotheNCAAtourna-“They’ve been in situations mentafteradisappointing0-2 that cause you to lose to weekend at the CCHA tourna-BemidjiStateorbeatMichigan ment in Detroit. Overlooked in the semifinal,” Irish coach and counted out, the Irish Jeff Jackson said. “They’ve upset No. 1-seed New beenthroughbothtypesofsit-Hampshire in the first round uations. The most important 7-3 before defeating Michigan thing is that they relay that State 3-1 to reach the Frozen information to their team-Four, where they faced bitter mates.” 
WU YUE/The Observer rival Michigan. Tied in over-Though none of the players Notre Dame and Boston College face off in the 2008 national championship game in Denver. time, then-freshman Calle were around, Jackson was Playing in the frst championship game in program history, the Irish fell to the Eagles 4-1. Ridderwall scored to put the also behind the bench for 
Irish in the national champi-Notre Dame’s 2007 run, in coach Dave Poulin. The stay ferent seasons, four different chancetogetbacktothesame onship game. Though Notre which the Irish notched their was short-lived with an open-results. The Irish know which spot. We’ve played against the Dame would lose to Boston first ever tournament victory. ingroundlosstoMinnesota5-one they’re trying to emulate best teams in the country and College, the run greatly sur-The No. 1-seed Irish beat 2, despite firing out to a 2-0 thisyear. competed with them. passed any expectations by Alabama-Huntsville 3-2 in lead. “The Frozen Four experi-Hopefully,I’lllookbackonthis experts entering the tourna-double overtime in the first An unexpected Cinderella ence is what’s going to stick year and remember it as the ment. round before losing to run, a shell-shocking oust, a outrightnow,”Ryansaid.“But bestmoment.” 
Flash-forward to 2011, MichiganState2-1. mildly disappointing end, and Ithinkwehaveagreatchance NotreDameislimpingintothe ThefirsttimetheIrishquali-a defeat with a “just happy to to get back there. I fully Contact Sam Gans at NCAA tournament after a dis-fied, 2004, was under former be here” mentality. Four dif-believe that our team has a sgans@nd.edu 
EX EN ED

EXTENDEDOPENHOUSEHOURS 
THI TU

THISFRIIDDAYAY,SATATURDAYAY & SUNDAYAY
Notre Dame’s THECLOSEST 
YOUCAANLIVE      TOCAAMPUUS!
YO  
CAN     CAMP
Tournament History 
A I
PHASE 
ù 
' 7 ù 
PH I
PHASEI 



Year Seed Result / 
·4 Bedrooms 
·4½ Baths 
· Patio & Deck 

2004 No. 4 Lost 5–2 to Minnesota in frst round 

6 

• Spectacular views of campus –
 7 Bedr
· 7Bedrooms
Tennis
across from EckTennis 
· 6½ Baths

2007 No. 1 Lost 2–1 to Michigan State in second round 
• ToTown Homes,Flats & Estates 
·on the Q Quaduad! 
with up to 7 bedrooms 

• Own a home on the“alumni quad” 

H Q 


2008 No. 4 Lost 4–1 to Boston College in Championship game











 

DOUGLAS 
BULLA
NoNotre
ottrre

2009 No. 1 Lost 5-1 to Bemidji State in frst round N Daammee
Dam 
Cammppuus Eck
Caamp 
Tennis 
TWYCKENHAM
DUNN 
JJAACC Soccer Lacrosse 
(574) 607-4271
Football

2011 WE SHALL SEE... 
St dium
Sttaadium 

VANESSVANESS info@IvyQuad.com
Quad.com 
EDDY

23 .IvyQQuad.comuad.com
wwww.IvyQ
EDISON 

Call David at (574) 607-4271 today! 
Merrimack rides deep roster to tournament bid 
Warriors coach Mark Dennehy uses unconventional methods to assemble a winning squad 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Merrimack coach Mark Dennehy did not pull any punches when discussing how he put together the ros­ter of his No. 7 Warriors squad. 
“I don’t want to say we’ve pieced this together, but we’ve taken a lot of guys that other teams have passed on,” he said. “We happen to think they’re good players.” 
The surprise runners-up in the Hockey East Conference tournament will make their first NCAA Tournament appearance since 1988 and their second all-time when they face the No. 9 Irish Saturday night as a No. 2­seed. The small liberal arts school in North Andover, Mass. has seen a hockey resurgence since Dennehy took over prior to the 2005­06 hockey season. In his six seasons behind the Warrior bench, Dennehy has rebuilt a program that competes in one of the toughest confer­ences in college hockey. In 2009-10, he was named All-New England Coach of the Year and Co -Hockey East Coach of the Year as Merrimack won a Division I program -record 16 games and qualified for the Hockey East Conference Tournament. Irish captain and senior defenseman Joe Lavin, who played his first two years of college hockey in Hockey East with Providence, said 
that Merrimack is clearly  a  
team on the rise.  
“ [ M e r r i m a c k ]  h a s  h a d  a  

great turnaround. They’re just finally starting to break through,” he said. “They’re a really hardworking team. Very physical, very smart, very methodical in the way they do things. They’re obvi­ously a very dangerous team. We just need to be ready for the physicality.” 
The Warriors (25-9-4) did indeed break through this season, smashing the previ­ous season’s school record for Division I wins and finish­ing fourth in the conference in the regular season. In the Hockey East Conference tournament, Dennehy ’s squad dispatched Maine in a first-round sweep and took care of No. 2-seed New Hampshire in the semifinals before falling to top -seed Boston College 5-3 in the title game. Despite 
M e r r i m a c k ’s  l o s s  t o  t h e  
E a g l e s ,  I r i s h  c o a c h  J e f f  
J a c k s o n  h i n t e d  t h a t  t h e  
Wa r r i o r s  m i g h t  b e  t h e  

strongest team to come out of Hockey East. 
“They’re a deep offensive team. They’ve got several forwards that have scored over 10, 15 goals. They’ve got a good power play,” he said. “They also defend well, and they’ve got a good goal­tender. I’ve got a good friend of mine that told me they’re the best team in Hockey East, regardless of BC beating them in the championship game. We’ll have our hands full. It’s going to be a chal­lenge. We’ll have to defend well and take advantage of our opportunities as well.” 
Merrimack’s offense attack comes from a balanced group of forwards, highlighted by sophomore forward Stephane Da Costa, the reigning NCAA Rookie of the Year. Da Costa is one of seven players on the Warrior squad with double-digit goals this season. Jackson said the team would need to be prepared for the multifaceted Merrimack offense. 


“They push the pace. They ’re a good offensive team, they transition really well, they do a good job com­ing back into their own end and they transition well from that,” Jackson said. “With their forward depth they can roll their lines and be a threat with all their lines.” 
Dennehy’s unique recruit­ing style of finding ‘diamonds in the rough’ has given the Warriors a deep team at all positions, not just at for ­ward. It’s a style to which Dennehy is fully committed. 
“The best players being recruited aren’t always the best players when they get to college and we ’ve prided 
ourselves on turning over some stones and finding guys that may end up being blue-chippers at the collegiate level, not necessarily coming in with all the hoopla, ” Dennehy said. 
The Warriors will hope to capitalize on perhaps the deepest and most talented roster in school history in their matchup with Notre Dame. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Asian Film Festival & Conference International Sunrise Breakfast 
7:00 – 9:00 p.m., Century CenterU 7:00 – 9:00 a.m., Fischer Community Center 
Downtown South Bend Tickets available for purchase at the
Sunday, March 27: Job Searching for International 

Spanish Mass Undergraduates: Peer-to-Peer Panel
1:30 p.m., St. Edward’s Hall Chapel 5:30-6:30 p.m., Room 210, DeBartolo Hall Saturday, April 2: 
International Children’s FestivalArt Studio Tour with Fr. Nguyen Red Hot Chili Pepper Eating Contest 
2:00 - 4:00 p.m.

2:20 – 4:00 p.m. 9:00-10:00 p.m., Fischer Community Center Meet at the Grotto at 2:20 p.m. 

Thursday, March 31: 


Tuesday, March 29: Snite Museum of Art Tour: Mexican Art 

International Festival: A Sweet World Before & After the Conquest
6:30 – 8:30 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom 5:00 – 6:00 p.m., Snite Museum of Art Sample international desserts while 
RSVP to issa@nd.edu International Festival Week is brought to you by
 
International Student Services & Activities (ISSA) and co-of handicrafts from Nepal, performances, 
sponsored by The Career Center, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Fischer O’Hara-Grace Graduate Residences (FOG), 
the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, La Alianza, the Snite Museum of Art, and University Village &
http://issa.nd.edu 
Cripe Street Apartments. 



SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Notre Dame finished the regular season second in the CCHA, but stumbled in the conference tournament, falling to Miami (Ohio) in the semifinals at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

The Irish are playing in their fifth NCAA tournament in program history, and two wins in Manchester, N.H., would give the team its second-ever trip to the Frozen Four. 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 





SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 





