
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Mike Lee to fight in charity event 
By TONY RIVERA 
News Writer 
Ever since he graduated from Notre Dame in 2009, Mike Lee said he wanted to bring profes­sional boxing to his alma mater. 
Tonight at 9 p.m. in the Pur­cell Pavilion, students, faculty and visitors to campus will wit­ness Lee, an undefeated light heavyweight professional boxer and three-time Bengal Bouts champion, turn his wish into reality. 
Proceeds from Lee’s fight against professional boxer Ja­cob Stiers will go to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
“It’s been pretty surreal,” Lee said of bringing the event to campus. 
After formulating his idea, Lee said he approached the Notre Dame Athletic Depart­ment and met with Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick. Both sides were soon on the same page, he said. 
“I thought it would be a much more difficult process,” Lee said. “After first contacting Jack Swarbrick, we had a great initial 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
meeting where we outlined what 

2009 Notre Dame graduate and three-time Bengal Bouts champion Mike Lee talks to the media see SWARBRICK/page 5 at a press conference Monday. Lee will fight Jacob Stiers tonight at 8 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 


University to host educational forum 

ByEMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Through the Notre Dame Fo­rum starting on Sept. 26, the Notre Dame community will en­gage in what Nicole Stelle Gar­nett said is the most important social justice issue of the day. 
“We’re at a truly critical mo­ment in American education,” Forum Committee co-chair and professor of law Garnett said. 
“We have the capacity to affect meaningful improvements in the way we educate children, and we are not realizing that capacity.” 
Garnett said the title of this year’s Forum – “Reimagining School” – is a reference to the collective imagination. 
“That is really the most im­portant asset we can harness 
see FORUM/page 6 
Wall Street provides opportunity 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
“If you can make it in New York, you can make it any­where,” 2009 graduate Henry Shine said, perhaps channel­ing his inner-Frank Sinatra. 
In the current market, these words could not be truer for an investment banking analyst like Shine. 
Shine, who studied finance and Mandarin Chinese, began his job at Morgan Stanley in August as headlines across the nation warned of tumult in the stock market. Despite the un­predictable Wall Street trading floors, Shine called his job “a great entryway into any sort of business.” 
“It can’t hurt you having it on your resume,” he said. “[This job] is a way to get my foot in the door now that would set me up for success down the road … I think [New York] is the best 
see JOBS/page 4 


Bands pay tribute to 9/11 victims 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame and Michi­gan State marching bands will pay special tribute to the vic­tims killed in the 9/11 attacks 10 years ago at this weekend’s home game. 
The two bands will join to­gether to echo the Sept. 22, 2001 halftime show the bands performed at the first football game the schools played af­ter the attack.  They will play “Amazing Grace.” 
In the days following the terrorist attacks, all football games were cancelled, pushing any band tributes to the next weekend, Notre Dame’s Direc­tor of Bands Ken Dye said. 
“Once we knew [we were playing Michigan State], we called [them] and it took about 10 seconds to agree on ‘Amaz­ing Grace,’” Dye said.  
Dye and Michigan State’s Band Director John T. Madden put the folk hymn into notes and recorded the music. 
see TRIBUTE/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Female faculty face challenges page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Saturday tailgates features page 12 u Women’s soccer Insider center 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, September 16, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE GAME SATURDAY? 











www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Caitlin Housley  Sam Gans  
Adam Llorens  Jack Hefferon  
Bridget Feeney  Conor Kelly  
Graphics  Scene  
Marina Kozak  Kevin Noonan  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Sarah O’Connor  Megan Kozak  

Michael Varraveto 
sophomore Dillion 
“100-0, Notre Dame of course.” 

Victoria McCarthy 
senior Pascrilla West 
“1-0 Notre Dame.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
Joseph Hinez 
sophomore Knott 

“Notre Dame 34, Michigan St. 14.” 
Patrick Jung 
sophomore Keough 
“An overtime victory.” 
Mike Kane 
freshman Zahm 
“28-27 Notre Dame.” 
Rob Ryan 
senior off-campus 
“Drowning my sorrorws.” 


OFFBEAT 

Missing Colorado cat found 5 years later in New York 
DENVER — A pet cat that went missing in Colorado five years ago was found wander­ing in Manhattan. 
Workers at a pet shelter traced Willow the cat back to a family in Colorado, thanks to a microchip embedded in the animal’s neck that they checked with a scanner, said Richard Gentles, spokesman for Animal Care & Control of New York City. 
A concerned citizen found the brown, black and white cat prowling the streets on the East Side of Manhattan. 
“The cat was in very good condition, clean, a little chunky,” Gentles said. “So ob­viously someone was taking 
LOCAL WEATHER 
care of her.” 

Willow belongs to a Colora­do family called the Squires, and the animal ran away five years ago during a home ren­ovation project, Gentles said. 
Animal Care & Control plans to soon fly the cat back to the Squires, after the animal passes a required screening test for commu­nicable disease and to make sure it is healthy enough to travel, Gentles said. 
Solid gold phone to be sold 
MOSCOW — A new mobile phone from Denmark is liter­ally solid gold. 
Danish retailer Aesir said it hopes to sell its $57,400, limited-edition 18-carat gold phones to Moscow’s fashion-forward elite. The phone, which took three years to develop, is “not a play thing,” company founder Thomas Jensen said. 
It features no extra ap­plications: No email, games, camera or GPS navigation, but its target clients are the ultra-wealthy. The firm says it will design a new phone ev­ery 18 months and sell each for 42,000 euros in gold and 7,250 euros ($9,867) in stain­less steel. 
Several of Denmark’s rich­est families, including the owners of toymaker Lego, invested in developing the phones. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The third lecture in the Boardroom InSights Execu­tive Speaker Series is today from 10:40 a.m. to 12:00 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium of  the Mendoza College of Business. The speaker will be Ryan McInerney, CEO of Reail Services of J.P. Morgan Chase. 
Abe Frank, ‘84 J.D., Man­aging Director of Govern­ment Relations for the NCAA, will speak today from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in the Eck Hall of Law Room 1140. Frank will speak on hot topics regard­ing the NCAA and job pros­pects at the NCAA for law­yers. Pizza will be provided. 
Today, the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) and Institute for Educa­tional Initiatives (IEI) will host dedication events for the new Carole Sandner Hall. The open house begins at 3:30 p.m. and University President Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C., will bless the hall at 5 p.m. 
La Alianza will host the Fi­esta Del Sol tonight. Latino Student Group Presenta­tions will be from 5 to 6 p.m. There will be Salsa/Bachata Lessons from 7 to 8 p.m. and the night will conclude with a party from 8 p.m. to midnight. The celebration is at Fieldhouse Mall and the Clarke Memorial Fountain. 
The Italian film “Bicy­cle Thieves” (1948) will be shown tonight at 7:30 p.m. with English subtitles in De-Bartolo. Tickets cost $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 









CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 75 LOW 60 

HIGH 74 LOW 52 
HIGH 78 LOW 60 

Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
University departments to close gender divide 
By Tori Roeck work to be done … [but at Notre networks where when stress News Writer Dame] we’re lucky enough that starts to build up, they have we do have respectful people people they can turn to that can Being a female professor in who value the input of women help them navigate very dif­a male-dominated department as much as the input of men.” ficult decisions,” Sullivan said. can be a challenge Arielle Phil-Assistant professor of phi-“Without good mentors I think lips said. losophy Meghan Sullivan said women are more likely to burn Phillips, an assistant re-she is the only out in phi-search professor in the Notre female junior losophy than 
Dame physics department, is professor in men.” 
one of the 10 female faculty her depart-One chal­
members, excluding guest and ment. “There might still be work lenge many 
visiting professors, teaching According to be done … [but at Notre female pro-
with 70 male faculty members. to the depart-Dame] we’re lucky enough fessors face Phillips said the gender di-ment’s web-that we do have respectful is balancing 
vide might reflect on the field of site, six cur-people who value the family life 
physics itself. rent teaching with their ca-
input of women as much 
“There is an imbalance in and research reers, Phillips maternity leave and designated “Things like childcare, things 
as the input of men.” 
the number of women versus faculty mem-said. breast-feeding rooms around like secure parking lots and 
men who are graduating from bers are fe-She said campus. having emergency boxes … a lot 
physics programs … so it’s not male, com-that although “[Notre Dame] offers beyond of the concerns of women often 
always obvious how to tackle pared to 33 Arielle Phillips raising a fam-what is required by law, and end up being concerns of men, 
that,” Phillips said. males. assistant research professor ily and being that is a positive development,” as well,” she said. Regardless of being a minor-S u lli v a n a professor Phillips said. Due to the overlap, Phillips 
ity among her colleagues, Phil-said when is not easy at Before coming to Notre Dame, said men’s input is also impor­
lips said they are all on equal it comes to any Univer-Phillips was on the President’s tant. 
footing. men t o r i n g , sity, Notre Standing Committee on the Sta-“Conversation among women “The field of physics has been male philosophy professors of-Dame has helpful programs tus of Women at Princeton Uni-is good and can identify certain 
working on this for a while, and ten have more support. that allow female faculty to versity, and she said most issues ways in which Notre Dame can 
it hasn’t always been the case,” “I think men have better in-balance the two roles, includ-raised by women there were support its faculty,” she said. 
she said. “There might still be formal mentoring and advising ing childcare programs, paid shared by male faculty. “But I think that conversation needs to be expanded to all people who want to have that conversation, and that includes young male faculty.” Sullivan said talking to other female professors helps women cope. “Just having sheer numbers of women and having that social connection helps departments and universities handle issues of gender when they come up,” Sullivan said. “If women feel like they have other people who are in a similar boat that they can … talk to about issues be­fore they become major prob­lems, they’re less likely to be­come major problems.” A 2008 report issued by Notre Dame’s University Committee of Women Faculty and Students and the University Committee on Cultural Diversity said Notre Dame was behind its peers in hiring and retaining female faculty. According to the report, the ratio of female professors in re­lation to that of similar univer­sities had dropped 10 percent­age points since 2001. The report recommended im­proving childcare services and spousal hiring. Phillips said Notre Dame’s continued emphasis on ad­dressing gender issues will help the University move forward.  “It’s very important to have a supportive structure,” Phillips said. “At Notre Dame, there are efforts underway and more im­portantly than what’s already there, there seems to be a con­versation that is ongoing.” 

Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@ nd.edu 



page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, September 16, 2011 
SMC diaper drive benefits charity 

By Tabitha Ricketts 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Of­fice of Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) is encouraging students to add an unconventional item to their shopping lists — diapers. 
The OCSE is hosting a two-week diaper drive on campus to benefit the Diaper Bank of Michi­ana. 
The diaper bank pro­vides diapers to low-income families with young children, the dis­abled and the elderly through a di stribu ­tion net­

“At the end of the 
work of “Even if a nonprofit day you’re helping group goes organiza -a helpless child in together tions, ac-who may otherwise and buys a cording to not receive supplies single pack-the Diaper that they need,” age, that Bank of would be Michiana’s great,” Call website. said. “Dia-
Angela Rossi 
Carolyn pers can be Call, di-senior expensive, 
“We’d be happy with 10 packages, really,” she said. “Doing a little bit can make a differ­ence.” 
She said she appreci­ates the efforts of those who have donated so far, and encourages more students to help. 
“Your average pack­age of diapers [costs] less than $10,” Rossi said. “It’s like giving up going out to one movie ... If you make that sacrifice, I feel it is worth it.” 
Call said she encour­ages students to work 
in groups to 
buy the dia­
pers. 
rector of the OCSE, said the need for diapers in the Michiana area is ongo­ing and demand is high. 
“We’ll make a dent in the need, but not for long,” Call said. 
Saint Mary’s senior Angela Rossi said she formulated the idea for a drive after her home-based student ministry group challenged her to collect a thousand dia­pers. 
Call said she is pleased to help Rossi with her challenge. 
“I learned about the diaper bank last year and about the need for diapers throughout the area,” Call said. “I hadn’t yet figured out how we could best as­sist them. When [Rossi] came to me with the idea for a diaper drive I knew we could be involved.” 
So far, 20 packs of dia­pers have been donated. The overall goal of the drive is to reach 100. 
Though they have not reached their goal yet, Rossi is pleased with the turnout to-date. 
so if stu­
dents can 
work as teams, it will be more effective.” 
However, Call said she realizes that more help will be needed to reach a higher number of donations. 
“Truth be told, we need to do more drives and we need other in­stitutions and busi­nesses in Michiana to join us.” 
Rossi said any dona­tion would make a dif­ference. 
“At the end of the day you’re helping a helpless child who may otherwise not receive supplies that they need,” Rossi said. “It is just one small sac­rifice, and a little bit can go a long way.” 
The Diaper Drive will run through Sept. 20. Collection boxes are located in each of the Saint Mary’s residence halls and in the mail-rooms of Spes Unica, Madeleva and Havican Hall. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 


Jobs 
continued from page 1 
place to launch a career.” 
Shine is not the only Notre Dame graduate on Wall Street. 
Bob Rischard, assistant di­rector at the Career Center, counsels students who are looking into careers in fi­nancial services. He said 120 members of the Class of 2009 are currently working on Wall Street. 
Despite economic tumult over the summer, Rischard predicted that graduating stu­dents interested in Wall Street jobs would not suffer the con­sequences. 
“I think our hirings for this year should be on par with what we had last year,” Ri­schard said. 
About a third of those students took jobs in bulge bracket investment banks, like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. 
“All [of the top nine bulge bracket firms] hired a Notre Dame undergrad in the past year,” Rischard said. 
One change in the industry, however, is what Rischard termed “optionality.” Com­panies no longer expect new hires to remain at the firm for more than a few years, he said, and students often look at their first job out of college as a step­ping stone rather than a long­term position. 
“Most firms in financial ser­vices as well as most firms that recruit at Notre Dame have a pretty long-term view of the world,” Rischard said. “It re­ally is a changing world that students have these days. Most investment banks hire you with the mentality that you’re going to be there two or three years, so they are always going to need more hires.” 
When searching for post­graduate employment, Rischard said students look more for com­panies that can help them build a basic skill set for future jobs in other business sectors. 
“I’m not sure [job security is] something the average student wants as much now as they did 10 years ago,” he said. 
Even if students do not want to spend an extended period of time on Wall Street, Rischard said they need to love their work. 
“You need to show a curiosity [for the markets] by watching “Money Line,” reading the Wall Street Journal, reading periodi­cals online,” Rischard said. “You do have to have a passion for the markets.” 
Internships are also critical for students who want to be on Wall Street after graduation, Rischard said. “In investment banking, more than any other field, there is a huge lead-time with hires,” he said. “That huge lead-time is derived from intern­ships between junior and senior year. It is critical that you do in­tern in the field to show interest and passion in that sector.” 
Shine said he completed an internship in Chicago after his junior year, and he connected with other Notre Dame gradu­ates at Morgan Stanley through the Alumni Association. 
“I talked to as many people as I could,” Shine said. “It’s not always what you know, it’s who you know.” 
His position at Morgan Stanley will help build his skills in the business, Shine said. He agreed with the Rischard’s “optionality” mindset. 
“It’s definitely a two-way street,” Shine said. “I could stay for just two years like a lot of people do, or I could work here for the rest of my life.” 
While he is not convinced he will be in investment banking throughout his career, Shine said he is undecided about where he wants to go from Wall Street. 
“I would like to do something much more entrepreneurial, something on my own terms,” he said. 
Whatever the future holds for Wall Street or for his career, Shine said his current job has been a learning experience. 
“It’s really interesting work,” Shine said. “There’s a big differ­ence between going to a finance class 50 minutes a day, three days a week, and working full time … It’s not like reading a textbook. You are learning while you are doing something useful for your company.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle@nd.edu 


Friday, September 16, 2011  The Observer u NEWS  ndsmcobserver.com | page 5  
Swarbrick  excited and supportive of the event, Lee said. “A lot of the kids [from the Rob- who won the 143 pounds Bengal Bouts championship last year, is eagerly an- event since the start of the semes­ter and is excited to watch a for­mer Bengal Bout return  on campus.” After the fight, Lee said he wants to relax and enjoy the rest  
inson Community Learning Cen­ ticipating  to campus.  of his weekend on campus by  
continued from page 1  ter] actually came out on Tuesday  the event.  “Boxing is a complete- cheering on the Irish.  
we had in mind. We wanted to do this the Notre Dame way.” It was Lee’s idea to make the night a charitable event, and he also picked which charities would receive the donations, Vice Presi­ for the workout,” Lee said. “It was cool to see them with the ‘Team Lee’ T-shirts. It was a very special moment.” Lee’s father and manager John Lee said his son has always shared a deep connection with  “I heard r u m o r s last year that this m i g h t h a pp e n ,” sophomore  “The opportunity to see the first ever Bengal Bouts guy to go pro here at Notre Dame will be amazing.”  ly unique experience in professional sports,” Peterson said. “The op­portunity to see the first ever Bengal Bouts guy to go pro here at Notre Dame will be amazing.”  “Because of training, this is the first time that I’ve been back during a home football weekend,” Lee said. “Although I was able to see Notre Dame play at Yankee Stadium, it feels like it’s been a very long time since I’ve been  
dent for University Relations Lou  Notre Dame.  Will Peter- Lee said he hopes to  back.”  
Nanni said.  “Mike said in his press confer- son  said.  Will Peterson  stop by O’Neill Hall af- Students can watch Lee in the  
“[Lee] is a wonderful reflection of Notre Dame,” Nanni said.  “He  ence that the greatest day of his life was when he got into Notre  “I’ve been waiting for  sophomore  ter the fight and walk through the doors of his  ring with announcer Regis Pil­bin  for a discounted price of $15.  
embodies everything we hope  Dame,” John Lee said. “Now he  this day to  old room.  Ringside seats for the event are  
our graduates become.”  says that he expects to match that  come  ever  “I  have  awesome  available for $150 and general  
Nanni said Lee guarantees a  on Friday.”  since.”  memories from O’Neill,” Lee said.  admission tickets start at $30.  
six-figure sum will be split be- Students are just as excited  Peterson, a resident of Lee’s  “I made friends I still talk to ev­ 
tween both charity organizations.  Mike Lee is returning to cam- former dorm – O’Neill Hall – said  ery single day. [O’Neill] has been  Contact Tony Rivera at                          
The charities have been both  pus. Sophomore Will Peterson,  he has been selling tickets for the  huge help in promoting the fight  trivera@nd.edu  


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, September 16, 2011 
Tribute 
continued from page 1 
“It was just the right song to get across the emotion of the day,” Dye said. “It was a way that transcended schools, nations … it was universally accepted.” 
Both bands learned the music and rehearsed the chore­ography, he 


said. In the “This is a little different hand descrip­
show, the from then because when tion from two bands something like 9/11 someone who began sepa-happens, you push other was there.” 
rately but Though the 
things aside and work 
ended to-nation lost 
around the clock.” 
gether, many people standing as in 9/11, the 
Kenneth Dye 
one united Notre Dame group on the Director of Bands family truly 
field. 
Behind the scenes, oth­er univer­sity bands contacted Notre Dame to see how the Fight­ing Irish would respond to the attacks, Dye said. 
“A number of schools asked, ‘What music should we play? What are you do­ing?’” he said. “After talk­ing with Michigan State we sent them appropriate mu­sic to portray what had hap­pened.” 
Four years ago, the two di­rectors began to eye the 10­year anniversary, Dye said. As the date drew closer, the directors agreed to revisit the song in the 2011 half­time show. 
The two bands began plan­ning last spring and spent the summer in preparation. 
“This is a little different from then because when something like 9/11 hap­pens, you push other things aside and work around the 


Forum 
continued from page 1 
in this year-long conversation,” she said. 
The Forum will kick off with an interactive address led by Jeb 
Bush, former governor of Florida. 
“During his time as governor of Florida, Jeb Bush over­saw a com­prehensive set of educa­tion reforms that some people have referred to as the ‘Flori­da cocktail,’” 

“This is an unprecedented in the dia­logue.” 
conversation — on several 
The Notre 

different levels — and 
Dame Law 

I think we will benefit 
School will 

greatly from joining 
host New Jer­

in the dialogue.” 
sey governor 
Chris Christie 
on Nov. 18, 

Nicole Stelle Garnett Garnett said. 
Christie is

Forum Committee co-chair 
Garnett said. “Rather than try and identify a single interven­tion that works for everyone be­fore implementing it, he decided to try a bunch at the same time.” 
Garnett said the results of Bush’s strategy are compelling and will maintain the audi­ence’s attention. 
“I’m confident that he will engage the audience in a great conversation about how Notre Dame can and must play a role in the education reform move­ment,” she said. 
Garnett said the Forum will continue Sept. 28 with a panel event. 
“We’ve brought together Juan Rangel from the UNO [United Neighborhood Organization] charter school network, Bishop clock,” Dye said. “In 2001 we just jumped right in.” 
Dye also arranged for Ma­jor Bob Webster, who was at Ground Zero on the day of the attacks, to visit the Marching Band on Thurs­day. 
“He’s a member of the Sal­vation Army who covered bodies left behind,” Dye said. “He was also a Chaplin who spent a lot of time help­ing in the di­saster. I want the students to get a first 
came togeth­
er to support 
survivors and 
honor the memories of lost loved ones, he said. 
“People turned to faith and community in the Mass on South Quad and the game,” Dye said. “You never felt emotion like that, with people chanting ‘USA’ and singing ‘America the Beau­tiful’ louder than they ever have.” 
Dye said he hopes fans of Notre Dame and Michigan State will recognize the ex­tent to which the schools were affected by the tragedy and how they joined togeth­er afterwards. 
“There’s an old saying that when words fail, music speaks,” he said. “‘Amazing Grace’ was the most memo­rable show we’ve ever done at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at        ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Gerry Kicanas from the Diocese of Tucson, Randi Weingarten from the American Federation of Teachers and Wendy Kopp from Teach for America for a conversation on the future of the education reform movement,” Garnett said. “This is an un­precedented conversation — on several different levels — and I think we will benefit greatly from joining 
scheduled to 
deliver a lec­
ture on edu­cational innovation and the law. 
“Governor Christie’s aggres­sive take on education reform has received significant at­tention lately, and it should be interesting to hear where he thinks this work is headed,” she said. 
Garnett said this year’s Forum represents Notre Dame’s ambi­tion to be a place where “learn­ing becomes service to justice.” 
“Education is an issue for which we all can roll up our sleeves and contribute. Every member of the community has a role,” she said. “We want as broad and vibrant a conversa­tion as possible.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at             eschrank@nd.edu 

GOP hopefuls discuss health care 
Associated Press 

JEFFERSON, Iowa  — Re­publican presidential candi­date Rick Perry said Thurs­day the health care bill GOP rival Mitt Romney enacted in Massachusetts paved the way for President Barack Obama’s federal health law last year and cost the state jobs. 
Perry’s criticism was his sharpest yet of Romney, who led in national polls of Republican voters until Perry entered the race last month. 
And it came in the wake of three days of heavy criti­cism by Romney of state­ments Perry has made about Social Security. 
“I think it’s important that we put as our nominee someone that does not blur the lines between President Obama and the Republican Party,” Perry told about 200 Republican activists in Iowa, where the 2012 presi­dential nominating cam­paign begins this winter. 
Perry said the Massachu­setts health care plan Rom­ney signed in 2006 contrib­uted to the state’s low rank in job growth during his one term as governor from 2003 to 2007. 
Perry was referring to a study published by conser­vative Beacon Hill Institute at Suffolk University which stated that the Massachu­setts program has cost the state thousands of jobs, raised health care costs and slowed income growth. 
Perry promotes Texas’ job growth as he campaigns for the GOP nomination, casting his efforts to reduce regula­tions and curb litigation as a model for the nation’s lin­gering high unemployment. Texas has added more than 1 million jobs during Perry’s decade as governor. 
Jobs and the economy are a leading issue in the race for the GOP nomination, and Romney has touted his de­cades of work as a venture capitalist and investment company founder before serving as governor as ex­pertise he could use as pres­ident to guide an economic recovery. 
Since Perry’s entry into the race, Romney has criti­cized the Texan for being too tied to the public sector at a time when a business-minded leader is needed as the nominee. 
Perry’s attack cuts direct­ly at the niche in the race Romney has worked to cre­ate in his second bid for the nomination. 
“The difference between me and President Obama are going to be very, very great,” Perry said. “What we have done will serve as a blueprint for this country.” 
Romney has shifted his ap­proach to Perry this month, criticizing instead his state­ments about Social Security, including that the federal retirement program should be dismantled and run by individual states. Romney raised the issue during a Re­publican candidates’ debate in Florida on Monday, where Perry also faced criticism from rivals about his sup­port for education benefits for children of illegal im­migrants and an executive order he signed requiring school-age girls to be vac­cinated against a sexually transmitted disease. 
“Gov. Perry was clearly rattled by his poor debate performance in Tampa,” Romney campaign spokes­woman Andrea Saul said. 

Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
FDA warns against usage of ‘corn sugar’ term 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — The Food and Drug Administration has cautioned the corn industry over its ongoing use of the term “corn sugar” to describe high fructose corn syrup, ask­ing them to stop using the proposed new name before it has  received regulatory ap­proval, The Associated Press has learned. 
The Corn Refiners Associa­tion wants to use “corn sugar” as an alternative name for the widely used liquid sweetener currently labeled as high fruc­tose corn syrup on most sodas and packaged foods. They’re attempting an image makeover after some scientists linked the product to obesity, diabe­tes and other health problems; some food companies now tout products that don’t contain the ingredient. 
Though it could take another year before the FDA rules on the request made last Septem­ber to change the name, the Corn Refiners Association has for months been using “corn sugar” on television commer­cials and at least two websites: cornsugar.com and sweetsur­prise.com. 
A series of high-profile tele­vision, online and print adver­tisements tell consumers that “sugar is sugar” and that corn sugar is natural and safe, pro­vided it’s consumed in mod­eration. 


In a July 12 letter obtained by the AP, Barbara Schnee­man, an FDA director, wrote to the Corn Refiners Associa­tion to say she was concerned with the trade group using the terms high fructose corn syrup and “corn sugar” inter­changeably. 
“We request that you re­examine your websites and modify statements that use the term ‘corn sugar’ as a syn­onym for (high fructose corn syrup),” Schneeman wrote. 
As of Thursday, two months after the letter was sent, none of that wording had been changed. 
Audrae Erickson, spokes­woman for the Corn Refiners Association, said in an email to the AP that the group is cur­rently reviewing its materials and will make changes if nec­essary. 
“We do not believe that any­one could be confused or be­lieve that the statements re­garding ‘corn sugar’ on the websites refer to anything other than high fructose corn syrup,” Erickson wrote. 
The FDA has no regulatory control over the corn asso­ciation’s advertising because it is not selling a product but promoting an industry. The federal agency can prosecute companies that incorrectly label ingredients and Schnee­man wrote that the FDA may launch enforcement action against food companies listing high fructose corn syrup as “corn sugar.” 


page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, September 16, 2011 
Search for Utah mother continues 
Associated Press 
DELTA, Utah  — A search in the Utah desert for a miss­ing mother took a strange turn Thursday when the site that authorities said contained human remains turned up no body parts. 
Cadaver dogs discovered the location this week amid a renewed search for Susan Pow­ell, and investigators declared that they had found human remains. 
But authorities now say that after digging into the site, they have found no remains. Police did not say why they earlier stated that they had found hu­man remains when they had not even seen any. 
“Right now, we haven’t found anything except for these scents that these dogs are pick­ing up,” said West Valley City Police Lt. Bill Merritt. “We have not come across bones.” 
Because the site is on govern­ment land, a federal anthropol­ogist was brought in to exam­ine the site Thursday and see if it was part of an ancient burial ground. Investigators then began sifting through what was described as a shallow grave as they searched for clues, but had so far found nothing. 
Investigators previously said that a federal anthropologist had determined the remains found in a remote area of central Utah were not ancient, but instead were much more recent. 
“We’re not looking at some ancient burial ground,” Merritt said. “This is not going to be some cowboy from the West.” 
Merritt said later Thursday that authorities had only begun to dig into the dirt in the after­noon. By 5 p.m., they had dug about a foot down and three feet across, but came across nothing. 
“Shovel by shovel full,” Mer­ritt said. “Every shovel full that comes out is being sifted through. It’s a painstaking process.” 
West Valley City Police Chief Thayne “Buzz” Nielsen said the area where the dogs indicated remains would be found was beneath what appeared to be a shallow grave covered with dirt. 
“They have found what looks like a grave where the dirt has been shoveled and moved around a little bit,” Nielsen said. 
Police have been searching since Monday in the area near Topaz Mountain in Juab County for any clues in the disappear­ance of Susan Powell. The site is about 135 miles southwest of the location where she was last seen at her home in West Valley City on Dec. 7, 2009. It is also just about 30 miles south of where Powell’s husband, Josh Powell, told police he took his two young children camping on the night his wife vanished. 
He is the only person of inter­est in the case, but has never been arrested or charged. 
Merritt said the discovery “fits in with what we’ve been looking for.” 
Asked whether he was hope­ful Susan Powell’s remains would be found there, Merritt called it “50-50 at this point.” 
Authorities planned to bring in fresh cadaver dogs to search around the area later Thurs­day. 
Meanwhile, Susan Powell’s father, Chuck Cox, was headed to the site, authorities said. 
Susan Powell was 28 when she was reported missing Dec. 7, 2009, after she failed to show up for her stockbroker job. The case has cast a harsh spotlight on Powell’s husband. Josh Powell has not returned repeated calls to the Associ­ated Press seeking comment. In a string of national televi­sion interviews last month, he denied killing his wife or having anything to do with her disappearance. 
“We would love this to be a break,” Merritt said. “We hope, to a certain extent, that it is not Susan because that would mean that she is maybe alive somewhere.” 
The area is in a rugged remote section of Utah’s cen­tral high desert surrounded by grasses and sagebrush and punctuated by jagged mountains rising from the flat landscape. At the time of year Susan Powell vanished, it would have been covered in snow, the ground frozen. 
Josh Powell was driving a minivan that night. 
Merritt said the site would have been difficult to reach in December but not impossible. 
“Impossible? I can’t say that,” he said. “Difficult? It probably would be.” 
Meanwhile, friends and family waited and prayed. 
In May, speculation swirled that remains found in the des­ert about 50 miles southwest of Salt Lake City might have been those of Susan Powell, but authorities later said it was a young adult male. 
Last month, investigators searched mine shaft-dotted mountains near Ely, Nev., and later served a search warrant at the Puyallup, Wash., home that Josh Powell shares with his father, seizing computers and journals. 
This latest search is in an area popular for gem and rock hunters. Police have said Josh Powell liked to rock hunt in the area. 
“From the very beginning he clearly indicated he had been in and around the area,” said West Valley City Police Sgt. Mike Powell, who is not related to the family of the missing woman. 
Susan Powell’s father, Chuck Cox, expressed doubt that the remains belonged to his daughter because of how dif­ficult it would have been to access the area in winter. 
“We’re just waiting,” he said Wednesday evening. 
The Powell family put out a statement late Wednesday urging police to put out details about the remains. 
“With very little information available to the public, we can only hope that additional in­formation is released quickly to minimize heartache to those of us who love Susan. In the meantime, we continue to hope for Susan’s safe return,” it said. 
Josh Powell has said he believes his wife ran off with another man and has told po­lice he left her at home about 
12:30 a.m. on that Dec. 7 to go winter camping in freezing temperatures with their young sons — then 4 and 2 — about 80 miles west of Salt Lake City. 

Police accused of torture 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. — Il­linois Supreme Court jus­tices challenged prosecutors Thursday about the strength of their evidence in the rape conviction of a man who says he was tortured into confess­ing by Chicago police officers. 
In oral arguments in a case with potentially far-reaching impact on how Illinois deals with police torture cases — and one that could lay the groundwork for similar ap­peals by as many as 20 oth­er inmates — prosecutors argued that the state had enough evidence to convict inmate Stanley Wrice without his confession. Wrice, now 57, claims he confessed only af­ter being tortured by officers under the command of noto­rious Lt. Jon Burge 30 years ago. 
The justices asked whether proper appeals procedure was followed and pressed Special Prosecutor Myles O’Rourke about the state’s other evi­dence, noting that there was no DNA or fingerprints in­troduced at trial when Wrice was convicted in 1983. 
The case was brought to the high court by prosecu­tors, who are asking the jus­tices to overturn an appellate court decision granting Wrice a new hearing on his torture claims. In response, his at­torney made an impassioned plea to the justices to uphold the appellate ruling and take a stand against “the very bad blight from Jon Burge and these torture cases.” 
“This court should not tol­erate the torture of its citizens within its walls,” said defense attorney Heidi Lambros. 
The outcome of the case is being closely monitored by the other inmates who say Burge’s officers forced them to confess to crimes they didn’t commit, and lawyers and experts say the case could open the door to new hearings for those men. The mother of one of those in­mates attended the high court proceedings along with about 10 other Chicago-area activ­ists. 
Burge is serving a 4 ½-year sentence in federal prison fol­lowing his conviction last year of perjury and obstruction of justice for lying in a civil suit when he said he’d never wit­nessed or participated in the torture of suspects. 
Wrice is serving a 100-year­sentence. He is one of dozens of men, almost all of them young and black, who have claimed since the 1970s that Burge and his officers tortured them into confessing to crimes ranging from armed robbery to murder. Allegations persisted until the 1990s at police stations on the city’s South and West sides. 
Wrice says officers working for Burge used a flashlight and rubber hose to beat him in the face and groin until he con­fessed to the 1982 assault at his home. 
Prosecutors have not dis­puted that Wrice was tortured, and O’Rourke called police tor­ture “abhorrent” and said the state doesn’t condone it. But, he said there was “overwhelm­ing evidence” of Wrice’s guilt, including testimony from two eyewitnesses and the fact that an iron used in the attack was found in Wrice’s bedroom, as were the victim’s clothes. 
O’Rourke insisted the state had enough evidence to convict Wrice without the allegedly co­erced confession. Prosecutors want justices to rule that the confession was the legal equiv­alent of “harmless error.” 
“The idea that the other evi­dence was somehow inconse­quential was not the case,” O’Rourke said. 
But the justices pressed O’Rourke on the point. In a series of questions, Jus­tice Charles Freeman asked whether there is any physical evidence linking Wrice to the crime. 
“But again, no DNA?” Free­man asked at one point, to which O’Rourke answered: “No DNA back in 1982.” 
Justice Thomas Kilbride asked about a recent affidavit in which one of the two wit­nesses recanted, claiming Chi­cago police beat him into impli­cating Wrice. 
Justice Anne Burke chal­lenged the notion that the jury didn’t rely heavily on the con­fession, asking whether it was the “most probative and dam­aging evidence” prosecutors can present. 
At Wrice’s original trial, the judge rejected his attempt to have his confession suppressed because of the torture, and a jury convicted him. 
Each of his attempts for a new hearing on his torture claims was turned down until December, when the Illinois appellate court ordered a new evidentiary hearing, citing a state Supreme Court ruling that “the use of a defendant’s coerced confession as substan­tive evidence of his guilt is nev­er harmless error.” The court ruled Wrice had presented enough consistent evidence of his torture over the years that his claim should be reconsid­ered. 


Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u NENEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 
Obama presents Medal of Honor to U.S. Marine 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Defying orders and tempting fate, Marine corporal Dakota Meyer charged five times in a Hum­vee into heavy gunfire in the darkness of an Afghanistan valley to rescue comrades under attack from Taliban insurgents. 
On Thursday, Meyer was presented with the Medal of Honor, the nation’s highest military award, by President Barack Obama. 
Meyer’s heroics during the six-hour ambush and firefight saved the lives of 36 people, both Americans and Afghans. He killed at least eight Taliban insurgents. Firing from a gun turret on top of the Humvee driven by a fellow Marine, he provided cover for his team, allowing many to escape likely death. 
He was defying orders from his commanders, who told him to stay back. The kill zone, they said, was too dangerous. But the young corporal, just 21 years old at the time, knew his friends were trapped that early morning in September 2009. 
“In Sgt. Dakota Meyer, we see the best of a generation that has served with distinc­tion through a decade of war,” Obama said during a ceremony in the East Room of the White House. 
Meyer, later promoted to sergeant and now out of the Marines, is the third living recipient and the first Marine to be awarded the Medal of Honor for actions in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
The modest, soft-spoken 23-year-old now lives in his home state of Kentucky, work­ing in construction. 
Obama praised Meyer for his humility and work ethic. When the White House tried to reach him in the middle of a workday to tell him his medal had been approved, he worried about whether he could take a call while on the job. So the White House arranged for the presi­dent to call during Meyer’s lunch break. Obama thanked him for taking the call. 
On the eve of the Medal of Honor ceremony, Obama and Meyer chatted on a White House patio, over a beer. 
“It might sound crazy, but it was just, you don’t really think about it, you don’t comprehend it, you don’t really comprehend what you did until looking back on it,” Meyer said. 



Rogue trader costs UBS $2 million 
Associated Press 
LONDON — One man armed with only a computer terminal humbled a venerable bank­ing institution yet again. This time it was Swiss powerhouse UBS, which said Thursday that it had lost roughly $2 billion because of a renegade trader. 
The arrest of 31-year-old equities trader Kweku Adoboli in London is one more head­ache for troubled international banks, and fresh proof that they remain vulnerable to untracked trading that can produce mind-boggling losses. 
Adoboli would join a rogue’s gallery that includes Jerome Kerviel, who gambled away $6.7 billion at a French bank until he was caught three years ago, and Nick Leeson, who made so many unauthorized trades that it caused the col­lapse of a British bank in 1995. 
The scale of those frauds rocked world finance. Banks tightened oversight rules to make sure such large sums could not be traded under the radar. But the safeguards, designed to protect the public and shareholders alike, seem to have failed. 
UBS discovered irregu­larities in its trading records Wednesday night, and Adoboli was arrested early Thursday. Swiss banking regulators began looking into the scandal, which sent the bank’s stock sharply lower. 
“From the scale of this case, you can be sure that it’s the biggest we’ve ever seen for a Swiss bank,” Tobias Lux, a spokesman for Swiss regula­tors, told The Associated Press. 
Analysts said the bank’s im­age would be badly hurt. UBS was deemed to have recovered from the lending crisis that hammered banks in 2008 and to have improved its manage­ment of risk, said Fionna Swaf­field, a bank analyst at RBC Capital Markets. 
“This obviously brings this very much into question,” she said. 
Details about the alleged fraud were scarce. In a terse statement shortly before mar­kets opened, UBS informed investors that a large loss due to “unauthorized trading” had been discovered. 
The bank estimated the loss at $2 billion, big enough that the bank said it might have to report a quarterly loss. 
In a letter to employees, the bank said it regretted that the incident came at a difficult time: “While the news is dis­tressing, it will not change the fundamental strength of our firm.” 
Adoboli was being held by London police. There was no word on whether he had re­tained a lawyer. 
According to his profile on LinkedIn, a social networking site for professionals, Adoboli served on an equities desk at UBS called Delta One and worked with exchange-traded funds, which track different types of stocks or commodities, like gold. It is the same type of work Kerviel did for his bank. 
UBS added extra security at its offices in London’s financial district, and reporters were told that no additional infor­mation would be provided and were asked to leave. 
Philip Octave, Adoboli’s for­mer landlord at an expensive loft near the financial district, described him as articulate and well-dressed, and said he did not cause substantial problems. 
“He was very nice, very polite,” Octave said. He said Adoboli was untidy and had fallen behind on the rent on two occasions but paid up after some prodding. He said there were no problems with Adoboli’s references. 
The rent was a hefty 4,000 pounds per month, or about $6,300. Once downtrodden, Adoboli’s neighborhood has become popular with traders who can walk to work. It is popular with tourists because of its antique shops and vintage clothing stores. 
The apartment, which Adoboli left four months ago, was in a handsome three-story brick building near London’s storied Brick Lane — a busy street of curry houses, bars and boutiques a few blocks from UBS’s modernist U.K. headquarters. 
Adoboli traveled often to France and the United States, had been dating a nurse for at least a year and enjoyed the neighborhood bars, Octave said. The University of Notting­ham said he graduated in 2003 with a degree in e-commerce and digital business. 
Adoboli’s profile on Facebook showed a smiling black-and­white photograph and listed his interests as photography, cy­cling and boutique wines. The profile was taken down hours after his arrest. 
UBS is struggling to restore its reputation after heavy losses from subprime mortgages and an embarrassing U.S. tax eva­sion case that blew a hole in Switzerland’s storied tradition of banking secrecy. UBS took a $60 billion bailout from the Swiss government in 2008. 
The bank already planned to cut 3,500 jobs over two years, and the $2 billion loss is likely to further anger sharehold­ers. Its stock closed 11 percent lower in Zurich on Thursday. In the United States, it trades at about one-sixth what it did in 2007. 
UBS said the trading was un­der investigation and no client money was involved. 
Peter Thorne, a London equi­ties analyst at Helvea, said the loss was manageable for UBS but a blow to its reputation and management. He said it would probably add to calls for UBS to cut back its investment bank­ing unit. 
Banking industry observ­ers immediately highlighted similarities to the Kerviel case, which also involved a young trader entrusted with vast sums of money. 
Kerviel, who traded at Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank, was convicted in October 2010 of covering up bets worth almost $68 billion in all, with losses of $6.7 billion. 
He was ordered to pay the bank back all the money he had lost and was banned for life from the financial indus­try. Kerviel has appealed the verdict. 
Leeson lost $1.38 billion, or about $2 billion in today’s dol­lars, betting on Asian futures markets for Barings bank until he was discovered in 1995. The bank, which had been in busi­ness for more than 230 years, collapsed. 
By coincidence, the Swiss parliament began a long-slated debate on the future of the country’s banking industry Thursday. 
Lawmakers are being asked to consider proposals to assure that Switzerland’s two biggest banks, UBS and Credit Suisse Group, are brought under tighter control. Some lawmak­ers want the banks split up to make sure they are not “too big to fail” — so massive that they would wreak enormous damage on the economy if they went under. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Dead in the water 
I may be a peace studies major, but my history with goldfish is nothing short of a bloody massacre tainting my otherwise virtuous college career. 
The unintentional slaughter started freshman year when I discovered that Meijer sells goldfish for 19 cents. This meant every time I went to buy laundry detergent or shampoo, I bought a goldfish. Or four. 
The first two fish were named Theseus and Ariadne, and Suzanna Pratt they perished when they drove five hours Associate to Illinois with my Photo Editor then-roommate who babysat them over Christmas break. She brought me back a new fishbowl as a consolation prize, but we aren’t roommates anymore. 

The next fish was a so-called “fancy” goldfish that cost a whole $5. He was silver with a red spot and large, creepy black eyes. I named him Sushi and he lived for about a month. When he died, I fished him off the bottom of the fishbowl and flushed him away to a watery grave in the sewer. And then I bought more goldfish. 
The next two victims were Jonah and Ben. Jonah stuck it out for a few days until he too, decided that he just didn’t want to stay alive any more. I returned from class to find him floating belly-up in the fishbowl. I didn’t even bother with the toilet; Jonah went straight to the trash can. 
Ben persevered the rest of the semes­ter and halfway through the summer. He croaked midway through July, traumatizing my cousins who agreed to fish-sit. 
I bought four fish to kick off sophomore year. They were named BOB Time, Giant Swing, Satsuma and Making Friends. I lied to myself and everyone else in the world when I promised the fish would live. 
BOB Time and Making Friends expired within a week, leaving Satsuma and Giant Swing all alone in the fishbowl. I did every­thing I could to encourage them to stay alive. I bought fluorescent purple aquarium rocks and a Buddha statue to make life in the fishbowl that much more exciting. I changed their water and fed them religiously. They had a fantastic life swimming in circles, eat­ing green and red fish flakes. 
Then one morning, calamity struck. The fishbowl leaked water onto the coffee table, so like a caring, attentive fish owner. I de­cided to put the fish in a different container. I lifted the fishbowl and it exploded. Half the bowl stuck to the table, and the rest shat­tered in my hands, cascading water, glass and day-glo purple rocks all over the carpet. 
My roommate catapulted out of bed and we got to work. We peeled the two surviving fish off the drenched carpet, scraped up tiny bits of aquarium rocks, turned out couch on its side, pulled up the carpet and mopped up water, all at 8:30 in the morning. The fish, rug-burned and abused, survived. 
Satsuma and Giant Swing lived in wine glasses until one inevitably died. I bribed the survivor into surviving by buying it a glass vase from the thrift store. But the vase was cracked, and it slowly leaked water into my dresser and the fish suffocated in an empty glass coffin. 
I didn’t even bother naming the next three fish. They lived in an empty wine bottle and died like clockwork. After that, I gave up. 
Two years and a dozen dead fish later, my room is bereft of aquatic pets. Clearly, it’s time to go back to Meijer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Suzanna Pratt at spratt2@nd.edu 

Improving the world 


Nearly everyone associated with Notre Dame — stu­dents, faculty, alumni and administrators — incessantly talks about the “Notre Dame community.” The phrase is uttered so often it begins to lose some of its meaning, but this weekend will serve as a useful reminder of what it actually stands for. 
Mike Lee, a 2009 graduate and now a professional boxer, returns to campus Friday to maintain his undefeated record, but not to further his career. Lee headlines the “Fight Like a Champion” event that will benefit two very worthy causes: the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Robin­
son Community Learning Center. 
Lee and the Parseghian Foundation exemplify every­thing the Notre Dame community stands for. Lee is a product of the venerable Bengal Bouts tournament, which for decades has been a way for Notre Dame students to use their physical talents to benefit those less fortunate: “strong bodies fight, so that weak bodies may be nour­ished.” This program has been so popular, a women’s version, Baraka Bouts, has been able to find plenty of par­ticipants each year to also fight for a similar cause. These two tournaments together raise thousands of dollars each year for overseas Holy Cross missions. 
This is what the Notre Dame community is about. 
The Parseghian Foundation is no different. Legendary football coach Ara Parseghian started the foundation after losing three of his four grandchildren to the extremely rare and fatal Niemann-Pick Type C disease, often known as NP-C. In his quest to help find a cure for NP-C, Par­seghian turned to the College of Science, which embraced his cause with open arms. 
Now, numerous faculty members in the College of Sci-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
ence are hard at work researching NP-C, searching for a cure. Many of these labs also spend time working on other, more publicized diseases. For example, Professor Mal­colm Fraser’s lab is working on both a cure for HIV and a cure for NP-C. While the HIV/AIDS campaign is a worthy 
cause, it speaks volumes about the Notre 
Dame community that Fraser and his fellow faculty are willing to devote precious time and resources to researching a little-known disease. The College of Science, led in large part by Dean Gregory Crawford, has shown a willingness to use its considerable academic prowess to improve the lives of those stricken 
by fatal diseases. 
This is what the Notre Dame community is about. 
At its core, this community is driven by an overwhelm­ing desire to improve the world. Anyone who has chosen to come here — whether student or professor — has, in some way, been inspired by Notre Dame’s promise to keep a larger sense of purpose. At the same time, anyone who is a part of this community is immensely talented, as Notre Dame’s recent appearance in the top 20 schools of U.S. News & World Report’s college rankings affirms. We are surrounded by people who could be driven solely by self­ish desire. Lee doesn’t have to fight here, and he certainly doesn’t have to do it for charity. Yet he does it anyway. 
Much in the same way, the community continues to show a willingness to improve the world in whatever way it can do so. From scientific research to student boxing, from the Kelly Cares Foundation to the Lose the Shoes soccer tour­nament, Notre Dame has developed an ethos of leveraging talents to improve the world. 
This is what the Notre Dame community is really all about. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 
“We do not need magic to transform our world. We carry all the power we need inside ourselves already. We have the power to imagine better.” 
J.K. Rowling British author 


Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
What not to do to make a lasting relationship 
As many of you know, when it comes to gender relations on campus, the phe­nomenon called “the hook-up” reigns supreme. A hook-up has a wide defini­tion, from kissing to sex, and everything in between. Back in the day when I was an undergrad, the hook-up meant that Dr. G. David Moss my friend, who worked at a fast Dr. D @ the GRC food restaurant, threw an extra hamburger or French fries in my bag free of charge. Although different, there is still the underlying concept of something freely given and received with no cost or commitment. Of course, in both situations, there is a cost. We just choose to ignore that cost in order to maintain the fantasy of self-im­portance. I was told by a reliable source that most hook-ups on campus begin at parties where alcohol is present. The mu­sic is tight, lots of people dressed to party (especially during Halloween), alcohol is freely flowing and there is plenteous grinding (which some mistake for danc­ing). There is no official invitation to hook up. It just sort of happens. You know, the chemistry is right and “s/he was so into me!” Sometimes the couple will move to a private setting, and at other times they will continue the hook-up in full view of those attending the party. On many oc­casions the determining factor becomes how much alcohol has been consumed. 
Researchers have stated that the hook­up has turned the dating/relationship world upside down. In the past, couples first dated before there was any physical intimacy. Now physical intimacy leads the way and the dating/relationship building comes later, sometimes. Re­searchers have found that most hook-ups do not turn into lasting relationships. It is presumed that one of the goals of a hook­up is sexual pleasure, and studies have shown that this actually happens ... but more so for men than women. As rela­tionships grow in long term commitment, however, the sexual pleasure for women begins to match the sexual pleasure of men. This result supports the well known fact that individuals in monogamous re­lationships typically report higher levels of sexual satisfaction. As a person with 18 years of marriage and six children, I can personally attest to the high levels of ... but I digress. 
Unfortunately, the research also shows the presence of a double standard in terms of negative perceptions of the indi­vidual after the hook-up occurs. Whether we like it or not, women who frequent the hook-up culture receive labels like “slutty,” “less than dating material” and “damaged goods.” Men, on the other hand, may be labeled “manwhore,” but by and large they escape the social stig-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Is a scarf too metro? 
Dear Felicia and the Ladies of Notre Dame (“Fashion by Felicia The Man Scarf,” Sept. 14), 
As the one male that read your fashion article, I am a little confused. Scarves on men, in T-shirts… really? It just seems too metro for the Notre Dame male. I maybe would have considered it, until you mentioned that I should take fashion advice from our “European counterparts.” Just because David Beckham is “dreamy” does not mean that they all look like that. 
I happen to shop at Express and I tend to layer with vests, and even I think that a scarf with a T-shirt is in the “too-close-to-metro-for-comfort” category. I think that a slim fit dress shirt with a v-neck sweater paired with straight leg, dark denim jeans (never ever ever wear skinny jeans… ever) is a much better alternative. 
However, I respect the Ladies of Notre Dame. And, if they want me to wear a scarf, I’ll give it a try. So Ladies of Notre Dame, is a scarf fashion-forward or just too metro? 
Sean R. Fitzgerald 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Sept. 14 

Not exactly the perfect crime 
Dear anonymous bike thief, 

As you very well know, as you were the one to steal it, my bike was taken from the McGlinn bike racks over the weekend. I was quite upset, as I loved zooming to Jordan or Let’s Spoon on my little beach cruiser. However, once I filed the report with NDSP, I assumed I would never see my poor bike again. I also assumed that the theft was the work of some evil off-campus entity, bent on destroying the small amount of transporta­tion freedom in my possession. This assumption, however, was disproved when my very own bike was spotted chained outside Ryan Hall Tuesday afternoon, meaning that the theft was the work of a fellow Fighting Irishman. 
On one hand, I thought Notre Dame students were supposed to show honor and in­tegrity in all areas of our lives. It is clear that you have neither of these traits, as you felt the need to take something that clearly did not belong to you. 
Secondly, and perhaps more obviously, Notre Dame students are supposed to be smart. So, if you are going to be inconsiderate enough to steal my bike from me, why would you not remove my “Maria” license plate from the back, a.k.a. literally the one feature distinguishing my Huffy Cranbrook from the few hundred others riding around campus. Not only am I offended by your lack of respect for my property, I’m offended by your lack of decent common sense required to pull off petty theft. 
So, good try, bike thief. Maybe you thought that denting the fender, tearing the seat and destroying part of the handlebar would make my bike indistinguishable. But unfor­tunately, leaving a personalized name tag on a stolen bike kind of gives you away. 
Forevermore on the prowl for Notre Dame bike thieves, 
Maria Wilson sophomore McGlinn Hall Sept. 14 

ma that women face. In many cases, men are “high fived” for their prowess and “stud-nificance.” So what is the payoff for women to hook-up? Recent research is revealing that women are getting a boost in self-esteem as a result of the hookup. Many women report that they feel “cute” when they get male attention. I would be curious to hear what Notre Dame stu­dents think about this result. So in terms of sexual pleasure and social acceptance, the research supports the conclusion that hook-ups are designed and organized around meeting the physical and social needs of men. This is not to say that women do not receive physical pleasure from a hook-up, it is just reported at a lower level than men. Of course, this could be different on our campus. 
As I considered the hook-up culture’s symbiotic relationship with alcohol, I became convinced that this social move­ment is rooted in the fear of intimacy. When I presented this idea to a group of Notre Dame students, an astute male in the group quickly summarized that the fear of intimacy is closely related to the fear of rejection. With enough alcohol in our systems and having secured the glance of longing from the object of our flirtation, we quickly proceed down the road of physical intimacy. There is no need for messy conversations about past history, current likes and dislikes, future goals or one’s purpose in life. There is no knowledge of commitments made during spiritual growth retreats, fears of anoth­er broken heart or the fact that physical intimacy means different things to me than it does to you. Keeping things on the surface and blurred by alcohol means that physical intimacy can proceed with­out the opportunity for us to intentionally decide whether or not this activity is in our best interest, or in the best interest of our partner. We are able to ignore our rational thought process (which helped us get admitted to Notre Dame) in favor meeting an immediate need. The truth is, however, that the hook-up can never meet our true needs because we never bring our true selves to the activity. It is just another detour that keeps us from accepting the vulnerability required for authentic relationship. In many ways we become objects whose sole purpose is to satisfy the sexual needs of the other ... don’t they have inflatable toys that serve the same function? 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Looking past the statistics 
As a recent graduate of the college of Arts & Letters, I am encouraged to see discussions about the challenges A & L majors face as they near gradu­ation. However, I do take issue with some the statements in the “Don’t be Discouraged” letter (“Arts and Letters students: don’t be discouraged,” Sept. 15). 
The primary issue is the use of employment statistics. While these statis­tics which claim that “97% of A & L majors are employed within a year” may be vaguely comforting, they may also be vaguely misleading. The statistics fail to elaborate on two key details. 1) How many students responded to the survey? 2) What types of jobs constitute “full-time” work? For example, the 97% employment rate is less rosy if the response rate is only 50%, and a number of those in “full-employment” were working in jobs that did not require a college degree. 
The reality that A & L majors should acknowledge and accept is that, while it’s true that they possess strong “personal, analytic and communication skills,” so do students studying business, engineering, etc. But many of them have specific tangible trade skills in addition to strong intangible personal and intellectual abilities. The challenge for A & L majors is not simply to sell their abilities to employers, but to sell their abilities to employers relative to other job candidates who may possess a greater quantity of abilities. 
Although this sounds bleak, all is not lost. My recommendations “in addi­tion to seeking out the help of Career Services” are: 
1) Be patient and persistent. The job market is tough, meaning that you will most likely face adversity. You will be discouraged from time to time. What is important is that you don’t give up. 
2) Be flexible. Consider doing things you wouldn’t normally be willing to do, in employment contexts that are not ideal, i.e. working as an unpaid in­tern. Pricing your labor at zero is never ideal or encouraging, but companies often hire interns on full-time, so it may be a risk worth taking. 
3) Get help from your parents. Networking isn’t simply about going out and 
meeting new people, it’s also about leveraging existing networks. Good luck. 
Zhibin Dai alumnus Class of 2009 Sept. 15 


A BRIEF TOUR OF TOMORROW 



By MAIJA GUSTIN and MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writers 
Tomi has worked in Notre Dame’s Trademark Licensing Office for 11 years. Her husband grew up across the river from Notre Dame and has been a lifelong fan. His mother had season tickets since the 1960s and his family has come to games and tailgating ever since. His mother passed away, but they bring pho­tographs of her to every tailgate so she can be there in spirit. 
“My husband always has his pictures of his mom. She’s passed away, so we always make sure she’s here and his uncle and his mom’s friends that kind of origi­nated the tailgate back in the ‘60s,” Tomi said. 
Now, it is both a family affair as well as business, as Tomi invites people from the office over before games. 





Tony grew up in LaPorte and has been an Irish fan since childhood. His parents had sea­son tickets and he began com­ing to games regularly when his brother joined a law firm in town in the mid-‘90s. Tony comes to every home game and hosts a tailgate with friends and family for each one. 
As a kid, Tony’s family had a rule that you couldn’t go to a football game until you were in middle school. He has since continued that tradition with his own children, much to their disappointment. 
Tony likes building and con­tinuing traditions. Another tra­dition at this tailgate — once every year, usually in Novem­ber, Tony and his family and friends bring out a few deep fryers and deep-fry turkeys 


Dave, who grew up in LaPorte, has been a lifelong Irish fan. 
He went to his first football game when he was 13. Dave worked as a paperboy for the South Bend Tri­bune and received tickets as a tip. 
He has come to every home game for the last 10 years, tailgat­ing at every one of them. 
Dave had one of the most am­bitious culinary menus at his tail­gate. 
Despite the heat, he was busy cooking huge cuts of chuck roast to feed his friends and fellow foot­ball fans. 




W’S TAILGATES TO LOOK FOR 



The Bachelor Bounty is one of the most elaborate tailgates Notre Dame has ever seen. Fea­turing its own custom-printed tent, flag, trophy and T-shirts, the Bachelor Bounty is now in its 12th year of existence. 
Bounty-member Ben said a group of 23 graduates formed the Bachelor Bounty in 1999. 
“[We] decided that we would pitch in about $100 each and the last person who got married would basically win the earn­ings,” Ben said. 


The grads were seeded ac­cording to their “social sta­tus” at the time of graduation, which was based on their abil­ity to talk to girls. Ironically, the higher-seeded contestants got married first. 
The Bounty is now down to its final two contestants, Jed and Jim, both sixth-seeders. The Bachelor Bounty reunites at every home football opener. The original pot was invested in Cisco stock and is now worth about $7,500. 
For almost 30 years, Dennis McFadden and his family have held their Notre Dame tailgate. 
A South Bend native, Dennis has a long family tree full of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s gradu­ates, all of which are written up on their tailgating tent in black marker. 
The graduation years are not filled in until the family member has gotten his or her diploma, though Dennis has faith that his nephew, currently a sophomore, will graduate and be able to fill in his 2014. 
The Hallsworth family of South Bend has tailgated at almost ev­ery home game for 30 years.  Un­cle Kevin started the tradition, bringing out friends and family members for all the games — ex­cept the cold ones.  His nephew Jordan has taken the reins for the past 10 years, bringing out his family and keeping the tradi­tion alive.  Although some alum­ni couldn’t make it out for this game, Jordan wasn’t worried. “They’re at home doing other things,” he said. “But [this tail­gating spot], it’s a great spot ev­ery time. Friends, family — they always know where to find us.” 
Contact Maija Gustin and Mary Claire O’Donnell at mgustin@nd.edu and modonne5@nd.edu 
Even Dennis’s son Colin, a fresh­man at Indiana University, makes it back for most home games to fulfill the family tradition. 
Each time the McFadden fam­ily converges on Notre Dame, Dennis makes sure to pay tribute to his father, the first Domer in their family, by visiting his grave with his sons and flying a Marine Corps flag. 
Due to family and work con­nections, the McFaddens also get special appearances from the Kilt Band, as well as the cheerleaders, which they really enjoy. 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 16, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Non-conference fun 
Ask a sampling of random college football fans what their favorite part of the season is and you’re bound to get a wide variety of answers. 
Some will say the bowl games. Others will say the final few weeks, when BCS bowl berths and conference champion­ships are secured. And others will say October, when the conference season kicks into full gear. 
But a large number, in­cluding myself, will tell you the first month. Besides the fact that September ends the eight-month misery of college football’s offseason, it’s also the portion of the schedule that fea­tures primarily out of confer­ence matchups with teams we rarely get to see squaring off against one another. 
We’ve already received some nice treats for our football appetite, including LSU vs. Oregon, Boise State vs. Georgia and Alabama vs. Penn State. But this weekend cos will be left out and the debate for the second spot will be between the Seminoles and Cardinal. 

So out of conference match-ups are quite intriguing. But another interesting thing is happening between the con­ferences: they’re changing. 
Texas A&M is on the move to the SEC. Oklahoma is re­ported to be interested in the Pac 12. Texas could become an independent. 
It seems extremely likely that at some point in the near or far future, we will get four 16-team conferences. Hope­fully Notre Dame will not be a part of those, but that too seems uncertain. This, along with the country’s love for out of conference matchups, cre­ates a fun opportunity. 
Why not have, should it get to that point, an inter-confer­ence showdown? This would be similar to the Big Ten/ACC Challenge in basketball. You could have the 16 teams of the SEC matched up with the 16 teams of the Big Ten and the 16 of the ACC/Big East against the Pac 12/Big 12’s 16 teams. 
Would this resolve all the debate? No, and it shouldn’t. But it’d provide some more answers. And it’d create a lot of buzz and be a lot of fun to watch, which is the reason we 
follow sports, after 
all. 

may contain the best of the bunch. Auburn at Clemson,  If there’s one thing college football fans enjoy more than criticizing the BCS , it’s debating conference  Now, there are still lots of prob­lems that would need to be re­solved before this  
Washington  supremacy.  could be imple­ 

at Nebraska, Texas at UCLA, Ohio State at Miami (In­eligibowl, anyone?) and — the headliner — No. 1 Oklahoma at No. 5 Florida State are sure to capture the nation’s attention. 
These games are so popular partly because of the aforemen­tioned uniqueness that occurs when two powerhouses that rarely play each other meet on the gridiron, but also because they can help determine how strong each conference is. If there’s one thing college football fans enjoy more than criticizing the BCS (I personally like it, but that’s for another column), it’s debating conference supremacy. 
And more than any other sport, perceived strength of conference is actually an extremely important factor in college football, largely due to the BCS system. It’s the reason why, should Alabama, Florida State, Stanford and Boise State all finish this year undefeated, the Tide will be in the national championship game, the Bron­mented. First, 
you’d have to take into account some games already scheduled years in advance. And of course, most importantly, you’d have to convince the athletic directors and university presidents to go through with the plan. 
This will be difficult be­cause some teams will lose out on revenue from potential lost home games. In addi­tion, one single loss in col­lege football (unlike college basketball) can devastate a team’s season, so the athletic directors might want to avoid the risk. 
But it would still be worth looking into. As for now, enjoy the Seminoles and Sooners in just their seventh meeting ever tomorrow. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Sam at sgans@nd.edu 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Teams ready to begin play 
Carroll, St. Ed’s to matchup; O’Neill, Dillon set to kick off 
By SCOTT FRANO, ANDREW CARDOZA, MIKE MONACO, JAMES SOUTHARD, PETER STEINER, and ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writers 

Carroll Hall will take the long walk over to the Stepan Fields on Sunday to face St. Edward’s Hall in each team’s opening game of the interhall season. 
Carroll finished last sea­son 3-1 and was eliminated in its first playoff game. Car­roll captain junior linebacker Keith Marrero, a junior line­backer, says his team’s goal is to return to the postseason, but knows they must play one game at a time. 
“Our ultimate goal is to get to the stadium and win a championship,” Marrero said.  “But before that we have our season ahead of us, and we want to come out the first week and have a good showing. I think we’ve pre­pared well.” 
Senior running back Nick Tammerine and sophomore quarterback Jack Gardner will lead the Vermin offense while Marrero will anchor the defense. 
“[Our goal is to] just use this first game as a stepping stone and try to improve all year to be a legitimate con­tender for the nterhall title,” Marrero said. 
St. Ed’s senior linebacker Jay Mathes is eager to lead the Gentlemen back to their winning ways. The Gentle­men missed the playoffs last year at 1-3. 
“Two years ago we went to the Stadium, and we made it to the playoffs the three years prior to last year,” Mathes said. “So this is our ‘Return to Glory’ campaign. We’re hoping to handle it a little bit better than Ty Willingham.” 
Senior quarterback Paul Martin Rodriguez and senior lineman Juan Carlos Mejia Munne will be instrumental in St. Ed’s quest to return to Notre Dame Stadium and bring home the interhall title. 
Mathes says the Gentlemen are ready to put their work on the practice field to the test. 
“I’m expecting us to come out and really utilize what we’ve been working on, a kind of pole-cat offense of sorts with our big, tall wide receivers,” Mathes said. 
St. Ed’s and Carroll will kick off its seasons Sunday at 1 p.m. on the Riehle Fields. 
O’Neill vs. Dillon 
O’Neill and the Dillon square off this Sunday as each team looks to start the season on the right path. 
O’Neill is coming off a 2-2 campaign last year, but is already looking to the post­season. The Mob is putting a strong emphasis on limiting mental mistakes and taking it one game at a time. 
“Last year we felt that we could have made the playoffs if it weren’t for a few mental breakdowns,” O’Neill junior captain Alex Brolick said. “We made some key mistakes that led to some close losses and as long as we are on the same page we are confident we can take that next step and make the playoffs.” 
O’Neill retained most of its team from last year includ­ing senior quarterback Mike Wilbur, senior wide receiver Zach Bloss and senior middle linebacker Brendan Mulher­an. The Mob’s biggest asset going into the season is their team chemistry and camara­derie. 
“We aren’t the biggest team out there, but we’re a group of guys that feed off each other’s energy and truly en­joy playing the game,” Bro-lick said. 
Dillon is coming off a strong season, where they just fell short winning the interhall championship. The Big Red know that in order to be successful they need to limit turnovers and be smart with the ball. 
Junior wide receiver and cornerback captain Will Salvi said this year the team will make key offensive and defensive changes. 
“Offensively, we need to be smarter,” Salvi said. “The de­fenses knew [last year] when we were going to pass or when we were going to run. The fact that we have an of­fensive coordinator this year helps a lot.” 
Salvi knows O’Neill will be a true test to see where his team stands. Dillon’s key playmakers to watch on Sun­day’s matinee are Salvi, se­nior linebacker Evan Wray, sophomore quarterback Kevin Fink, and sophomore defensive end Ben Diaz. The biggest asset for the Big Red is the surplus of athletes for each position. 
“I don’t think a team has as many athletes as we do,” Salvi said.  “We had some trouble finding out who will play where on defense be­cause there are a lot of guys that could do great in many positions.” 
O’Neill and Dillon go head-to-head at 3 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields hoping to start the season with an early vic­tory. 
Keenan vs. Keough 
Keenan and Keough, two teams coming off losing 2010 season, will begin their re­spective 2011 interhall cam­paigns this Sunday. 
Keenan went 1-3 last year and missed out on the playoffs. Nonetheless, the Knights’ senior class knows what postseason football feels like, having made a deep playoff run in 2008. 
“Our freshman year, we made it to the Stadium for the championship and we want to get back there this year,” Keenan senior captain Erik Blackwood said. 
To get back to the champi­onship, the team is hoping its passion for football will fuel a strong season. Heading into their first game, the Knights are eager to hit the field. 
“We’re just ready to play. We all just love playing foot­ball,” Blackwood said. “We want to come out strong, work together aeam and show our love for the game and our love for Keenan.” 
Keough went 0-4 in 2010, but that record isn’t indica­tive of how the Kangaroos played.  Three of their loss­es were hard-fought battles that ended in close games. This year, Keough has a lot of fresh faces, with a new group of freshmen and new coaches. 
In addition to the new­comers, the Kangaroos will rely on a solid core of veter­ans.  This group includes ju­nior middle linebacker Andy Heck, senior tight end Wes Howard and senior captain Robert Toole. 
“We have a younger team,” Toole said. “The three of us are the leaders and the re­turners.” 
Between the freshmen and the upperclassmen, the Kan­garoos are ready for the new season and eager to come to 
see KEOUGH/page 15 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
CLASSIFIEDS Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE 
Close to ND! 
$89,900 - Clay Township, 3BR, 2BA,1188 SF, 20x30 garage, great condition. 
MLS#251450 Barb Foster, ReMax 100 574-968-4208 
www.barbfoster.net 

FOR RENT 
Newly renovated 5BR home half mile from campus. Great weekend rental for all home games, JPW, graduation. Call 574-250-2600 
One bedroom unit w/ fullsize fridge, oven, etc. (can sleep 4) available for rent graduation week 05/13 - 05/20/2012. Unit is located 5 minutes from NDU at the Varsity Club. Contact Mark at 847-715­9699. 
NOTICES 
Everyone on campus is getting cheap eats, movie tickets, 2 for 1’s and FREE stuff. 
Get yours too. 
TEXT IRISH1 to 99000 
TICKETS 

BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY GAMES - 
GAs only. 
Call 574-277-1659 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
BIBLE STUDY GROUP. 10 lesson covering entire bible in 1 hour sessions. Call Tom 574-876-8928 
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME AVERY!!  I HAVE MISSED YOU!! 
Yesterday, 190 years ago, Honduras was granted independence. 
And no matter how many jokes I crack, I guess that is kind of cool. 
So here’s to New Year’s at Roatan. 

Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
an absolute blast,” Spinelli and despite shutting out the from past years,” said Eveld. its team, senior captain Dan 
Keough 

said. opponent for the remainder This game may be won or Dansdill said. While it might be tempt-of the game, we couldn’t come lost in the trenches because “We’ve had good practices continued from page 14 ing for the team to rest on its back,” Hart said. “We’re look-the Juggerknotts also identify and we are ready to go have 
laurels and bask in the glory ing to improve our defense their size as an advantage, se-fun, fly around and hit people gether as a group. of last year’s championship, and come out with a quicker nior captain Dan Shaffer said. as hard as we can,” Dansdill “We are looking to build Spinelli said he has plans to tempo on offense.” “We have a lot of lineman,” said. “You can expect us to 
a community as a dorm, to improve his squad to ensure Hart said Fisher’s game Shaffer said. “That’s a big pass the ball a lot more than strengthen our brotherhood, a repeat. plan for this week is to come plus.” last year and for us to have and go out and just play and “We want to break in our out with a blast of energy. Knott hopes to perform bet-fewer turnovers.” have fun,” Toole said. new guys and run the ball so “This first game, we’re ter this year by being more Morrissey, coming off of a 
Keenan and Keough square as to avoid relying on our big looking to get going and hit dedicated in practice. quarterfinal appearance, is off at 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields playmakers, and we have a hard,” Hart said. “The number one thing hoping that sophomore quar­looking to get off to a strong few tricks up our sleeve,” he Potential Green Wave play-is getting people to come to terback Nick Conrad can lead start in 2011. said. makers include senior run-practice,” Shaffer said.  “Last the team to more offensive 
A few Otters to look out for ning back Chris Charnock year we didn’t have people production with the help of Sorin vs. Fisher this year are junior wide re-and junior linebacker Chris showing up.” offensive linemen sophomore 
Defending champion So-ceiver and linebacker Ryan Sarkis. The Juggerknotts will con-Ryan Daly, junior Sean Baur rin will kick off the interhall Robinson, senior linebacker Sorin and Fisher clash at 2 centrate on fundamentals and and senior Tom Nield. football season against Fisher Brett Leahy and senior run-p.m. at Riehle Fields this Sun-effort during their first game. “Conrad is a play master-this Sunday. ning back Matt Pepe. day to open the season. “We aren’t developed play-mind,” Oloriz said. “If I had 
Sorin is looking to repeat Meanwhile, Fisher junior wise so it’s going to be about to compare him to someone, it this fall under the leadership captain Matt Hart looks to Duncan vs. Knott defense and who is in shape,” would have to be a more mo-of junior captain Ted Spinel-lead his team back to the This Sunday Duncan and Shaffer said.  “We won’t take bile Charlie Weis.” 
li. Spinelli credits the team’s postseason coming off a 2-2 Knott will battle it out as both plays off.” The Dawgs are excited to good fortune last year to a va-year. teams hope to start the sea-Important contributors to see the what type of personal­riety of factors. “We’re looking to go for a son on a high note after miss-the Juggerknott’s effort are ity they will bring to the field 
“We’ve had a solid core of deeper run this season,” Hart ing the playoffs last year. sophomore lineman Kevin this year. Some key players to guys over the past few years,” said.  According to Duncan’s ju-Carr and junior quarterback look for are sophomore quar-Spinelli said. “Things clicked Getting off to a fast start in nior captain Neil Eveld, the Jake Coleman. After a few terback Will Cronin and se­and we got lucky a few times.” games is definitely a key to Highlanders are looking to weeks of practice, both teams nior center Tim Curran. 
Sorin won last year’s title Fisher’s season, according to add to the offense to improve are anxiously awaiting their “Tim is the rock of our of­7-6 in overtime on a frigid Hart. their team from last season. first game, Eveld said. fense,” Dansdill said. “With Sunday afternoon. “Last year, we gave up two “Our defense was good last “We are excited to get those two leading the offense, 
“Playing in the stadium was quick touchdowns in a game, year, but we couldn’t score,” this season under way,” said we will utilize them to cre-Eveld said.  “This year we Eveld. ate some serious offensive simplified the offense and we Duncan and Knott square production with the passing got a new coach.” off Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle game.” 
The Highlanders played in Fields. Not only does this match-some low-scoring games last up set the tone for the entire year, including a 2-0 victory Alumni vs. Morrissey season, but it will also decide against Knott that was won Exactly one year ago, Mor-who takes home this year’s on a safety. rissey and Alumni competed bragging rights. 
“[The Highlanders] are a in an all-out battle, and the Alumni and Morrissey good team,” Eveld said.  “We Dawgs walked away with square off Sunday at 1 p.m. at need to lock down on defense bragging rights. Riehle Fields with more than and give our offense a chance “Last year we were sloppy just a game at stake. to score a touchdown or two.” and let the Dawgs out, but this 
Key to Duncan’s offensive year we [don’t] want to take Contact Scott Frano at success will be sophomore our cue from the Baha Men,” sfrano@nd.edu, Andrew quarterback Josh Whelan Morrissey junior captain Alex Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu, and sophomore running back Oloriz said. “This year we are Mike Monaco at Noah Rangel. The other ad-really going to focus on play-jmonaco@nd.edu, James vantage Duncan has is its ing as one cohesive unit.” Southard at jsourthar@nd.edu, depth. Alumni, coming off a semi-Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
“I think our lines are pret-final appearance last sea-and Ally Darragh at ty deep which is a difference son, is feeling confident in adarra01@saintmarys.edu 


page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 16, 2011 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

LSU defeats MSU in SEC road opener 
Associated Press 
STARKVILLE, Miss. — LSU’s Jarrett Lee stepped back in the pocket, surveyed the field and let a pass fly. It was a beautifully thrown fade route to Rueben Randle, who beat two Mississippi State defenders to the corner of the end zone for a 19-yard touchdown. 
Everyone already knew LSU had a great running game and defense. Now the Tigers might be developing a quarterback to match. 
“Rueben made a great route 
— it was just a matter of put­ting it out there for him,” Lee said. “I feel like I’m becoming a more mature player. Really developing.” 
The senior quarterback, filling in for suspended Jor­dan Jefferson, completed 21 of 27 passes for 213 yards and the touchdown and No. 3 LSU defeated No. 25 Missis­sippi State 19-6 on Thursday night. 
Lee’s night was filled with conservative, but nearly per­fect passes all over the field. Then in a crucial moment, his strike to Randle hushed a raucous Mississippi State crowd and gave the Tigers a 16-6 lead. 

His only real mistake was an interception minutes later, but as it had all game, LSU’s defense stuffed Mississippi State with little trouble. LSU (3-0, 1-0 Southeastern Con­ference) had 15 tackles for a loss and held the Bulldogs (1­2, 0-2) to 193 total yards and two field goals. 
“It was really fun to see,” LSU coach Les Miles said. 
Despite Mississippi State’s cowbells providing an ever-present backdrop, LSU won its 12th straight game in the series dating to 1999. 
Lee’s success is quickly making LSU fans forget about Jefferson, the expected start­er who has been suspended all season after being arrest­ed for his alleged role in a bar fight in August. Lee wasn’t necessarily spectacular, but he didn’t have to be, calmly managing the game and hit­ting open receivers when op­portunities arose. 
It’s a stark contrast from his freshman season in 2008, when Lee threw 16 intercep­tions, including seven that were returned for touch­downs. Since those tough days he’s spent most of the time on the bench. Now with a new opportunity, he’s tak­ing full advantage. 
McGlinn 
continued from page 17 
They have many starters re­turning, including senior wide receiver Natalie Baldasare, senior defensive lineman Mi­cahlyn Allen and senior de­fensive back Erin Byrne. With many players back for 2011, Welsh Family is looking to find more continuity on offense, while maintaining the inten­sity from 2010. Welsh Family senior captain Charlotte Sea-sly is hopeful this combination will lead to a deep playoff run. 
“Our primary goal is to make it to the Stadium for the championship game,” Seasly said. “That’s always our goal.” 
McGlinn and Welsh Family kick off at 9 p.m. Monday at the Flag Football Fields. 
Cavanaugh vs. Pasquerilla West 
No strangers to success, both Cavanaugh and Pasque­rilla West are looking to carry last season’s momentum into Tuesday’s matchup. 
Last season, Cavanaugh went undefeated during the regular season only to lose in the second round of the play­offs. Pasquerilla West made it to the championship game for the second consecutive year, but fell short of the win. 
Pasquerilla West senior cap­tain Alison Lindeen says her team’s goal is simple. 
“Every year, our goal is to win the championship,” Lin­deen said. “We want to be back in the stadium for the third time in a row.” 
Lindeen believes the team’s strength will be its defense. 
“We have the best defense in the league,” she said. “We’re al­ways going to make stops.” 
The offense will have to break in a new quarterback in fresh­man Lauren Vidal. 
Despite their formidable op­ponent, Cavanaugh is confident they will be ready to play Tues­day. 
“I think we’re pretty pre­pared,” senior cornerback and captain Maggie Fahrenbach said. “We lost a lot of seniors, but there are a lot of younger girls stepping up. We’re hoping they’ll have a good season.” 
The Chaos hope their team unity will translate to success on the field. 
“We have a really bonded team with older and younger girls coming together,” Fahren­bach said. “Everyone’s really dedicated and has been coming out to practice a lot.” 
Fahrenbach hopes the of­fense, led by senior quarter­back Rebecca Cink, will be a strength for the team this sea­son. 
The Chaos and Purple Wea­sels will clash Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Flag Football Fields. 
Howard vs. Breen-Phillips 
Howard and Breen-Phillips clash Tuesday in what could be a pivotal game of the season. 
Howard ended the 2010 sea­son undefeated and is deter­mined to maintain that status. 
“Having been undefeated for the past two years, our main goal for this season is to con­tinue dominating games all the way to the playoffs,” Howard senior captain Jenny Gassner said. “Even though we lost key players last year the team is looking stronger than ever.” 
Gassner’s confidence in the Ducks is a reflection of not only their experience but also their growing numbers. 
“We had a great turnout of girls this year – enough to make two teams,” Gassner said. “The new members on the team have learned the plays quickly and have been playing well.” 
Breen-Phillips finished last season winless, but is looking to surprise opponents this year. 
“Last year was definitely a rebuilding year for us,” senior captain Maria Lynch said. “This year though, people better be ready to be surprised.” 
Though their numbers are small, the Babes feel it is not a detriment to their game. 
“It is a dedicated group,” Lynch said. “We have a lot of re­turning players who have great game experience and spirited coaches giving the team a sense of unity and power.” 
Breen-Phillips is focused on developing its offense and em­bracing the new year. 
“Last season is history now,” Lynch said. “We are ready to surprise people and be the un­derdogs. We are ready to prove everyone wrong.” 
Howard and Breen-Phillips square off at 7 p.m. Tuesday at Flag Football Fields. 
Contact Meghan Roder at mroder01@saintmarys.edu, Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu, Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu, Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu, Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu, John Pratt at jpratt1@nd.edu, Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu, Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu, Jonathan Warren at jwarre3@nd.edu and Stephanie Banta at sbanta01@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
Badin senior captain Sylvia Ban-nals of last year’s tournament turning but Curtis is adamant 
Howard 

da said. and hopes to better its fate this Ryan vs. Walsh that the replacements will per-
Playing against a strong con-year. But there are a few ques-A wild Monday night game form even better. continued from page 19 tender like Cavanaugh gives the tions that must be answered will take place between Ryan The Wildcats are expecting an 
Bullfrogs an early season test. first. and Walsh, as each team looks advantage over the Wild Women strong Farley team that earned “We’re really excited,” Banda “We graduated a large amount to start the season off with of-because they play beforehand on a playoff berth last year. With a said. “They have a lot of tradition of our team,” Pangborn captain fensive prowess and defensive Sunday. squad that includes 10 seniors, as a good team.” senior Liz Pawlak said. domination. The showdown of the wild the Finest are hoping strong vet-The Bullfrog offense will rely This loss of talented and ex-Walsh hopes to improve on a dorms, Walsh and Ryan, takes eran leadership can lead them to on the success of their two quar-perienced players has made it disappointing season a year ago. place Monday at 9 p.m. at LaBar success. terback system – featuring Ban-necessary for younger players to “Last year was a tough year fields. 
Farley senior outside lineback-da and senior Carli Fernandez come pick up where the seniors for Walsh,” junior quarterback er and captain Analise Althoff – as well as their ability to get left off. Pawlak said she is confi-and co-captain Kat Leach said. McGlinn vs. Welsh Family states that the team will rely on the ball to senior receiver Ryan dent this will happen. “Being one of the smaller dorms West Quad bragging rights a system of strong defense, as it Cooney. “We have a lot of new talent,” and having the roster limit cost will be on the line when McGlinn has done in the past. Cavanaugh wants to open its she said. us a lot of potential talent, but and Welsh Family square off 
“I expect our defense to be as season with a win to continue its The Phoxes are counting on we learned a lot, reorganized Monday night. solid as it has been in the past,” regular season winning streak. this young talent and they ex-and are coming back stronger The two teams have a history Althoff said. “We hope to put Last year’s season ended in a pect good things from new start-than ever.” together, having played in the pressure on the opposing quar-loss in the playoffs. ing quarterback sophomore Sam Both Leach and junior corner-2008 championship. terback and force more intercep-“We were undefeated in the Nordlund. back and co-captain Lindy Na-“The rivalry from that par­tions.” regular season last year but we Breen-Phillips also has a new varre said, although they are a ticular moment might have died 
With many aspects of the team lost a few seniors, so we’ll need quarterback in the likes of soph-young team, the new players will down a little bit but not for the falling into place, Althoff has to fill in those spots,” Cavanaugh omore Jaclyn Winkel. She will be making an impact through-seniors,” McGlinn senior captain high expectations for the Finest. senior captain Maggie Fahren-help the Babes in their efforts to out this upcoming season. Lauren Miller said. 
“We have performed really bach said. start with a victory after posting “Our strength this year comes Both teams are coming off well in practice so far,” she said. The Chaos hopes to get off to a losing record last season. from our newness as a team,” successful 2010 campaigns. Mc­“We hope to make it to the Sta-a good start with a win against Senior captain Maria Lynch Navarre said. “We have a lot of Glinn made it to the semifinals dium this year.” Badin and pull off another says that Breen-Philips is hoping fresh talent that is really going of the playoffs before losing to 
The game between these high-strong season. to reverse the trend of the last to make a difference for us.” Pasquerilla West. The Sham-powered and successful teams “We’re really excited to start few years. On the other side of the wild-rocks view last season as a suc­kicks off at 6 p.m. Sunday at La-the season,” Fahrenbach said. “We have been trying to put ness, the Wildcats look to im-cess, having made a run at a Bar Fields. “We’ve got a lot of potential.” the pieces together for a few prove their record and strive for championship while developing 
Like the Bullfrogs, Cavanaugh years,” Lynch said. “[We want to] a perfect season. some players and integrating a Badin vs. Cavanaugh looks to capitalize on a trio of se-work off our underdog status.” “This year is going to be the new coaching staff. 
Badin and Cavanaugh will nior offensive playmakers with The Babes are confident their best year yet,” junior running “We fell a little short [last open their seasons Sunday in quarterback Rebecca Cink dis-patience will be rewarded. back and captain Brianna Curtis year],” Miller said. “After an en-a matchup between two teams tributing to receivers Brittni Al-Neither team knows exactly said. “We did not have a perfect tire season with a core of veter-looking to improve upon last exander and Megan Robertson. what to expect from the oppo-record last year but we are im-ans and the same coaching staff, season’s results. Badin and Cavanaugh will nent. With new quarterbacks proving and will be great this we have a lot to build off.” 
Badin hopes to show their take their high hopes into their and a new season just starting, year.” The Shamrocks are looking growth from last year’s tough opening game Sunday at 7 p.m. there are a lot of unknowns. Curtis hopes to establish the for big contributions from senior season. The Bullfrogs will look at LaBar Fields. “We are unsure what to ex-Wildcats as a competitor in these defensive lineman Jill Stinch­to capitalize on the experience pect from them,” said Pawlak. interhall games with an offen-comb, sophomore defensive line-gained by the young freshmen Pangborn vs. Breen-Phillips “We are trying to prepare our sive force to be reckoned with. man Catherine Kromkowski and from last year. Pangborn and Breen-Philips offense and defense for whatever “Our returning quarterback, senior receiver Kate Tucker. 
“Last year was a challeng-are set to clash Sunday in a they throw at us on Sunday.” junior Maya Pillai, is who peo-The Whirlwinds are coming ing year because we’re a small season opener, with both de-The season opener between ple should look to for having big off a strong season in which they dorm, but we’re hopeful with a termined to improve over last Breen-Philips and Pangborn games,” Curtis said. barely missed out on the playoffs. lot of last year’s freshmen gain-year’s performances. takes place Sunday at 7:00 p.m. There were a few setbacks on ing experience over the season,” Pangborn lost in the semifi-at Labar Fields. defense with key players not re-see McGLINN/page 16 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

Irish to open season at regatta in Ann Arbor 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The woman’s rowing team kicks off the fall portion of its schedule this weekend with a four-team re­gatta. 
The race takes place at Lake Belleville in Ann Arbor, Mich. as the Irish compete against Michi­gan, Michigan State and Eastern Michigan. 
The Irish, who are coming off their eighth straight Big East title, are confident heading into the early portion of their season.
 “I think everyone is excited to get a chance to race someone else this weekend,” junior Sarah Mc-Shane said. “Even though the race is a lot like a typical practice, hav­ing other teams to race gives us more intensity.” 
She also sees the race as a great opportunity for the team to test themselves against quality com­petition early in the year. 
“It should be a good measuring stick for us to see how we com­pare to two really good teams at this early point in the season,” Mc-Shane said. “We definitely want to be the fastest boats in each race, but most importantly this week­end will give us a better idea of where we are now and where we need to be this season in order to reach our goals for this year.” 
Sophomore Anna VanEgmond said the entire team feels pre­pared for the race because the layout is comparable to the team’s daily routine. 
“Our race format for this week­end is very similar to what we have been doing at practice ev­ery Sunday so far this season,” VanEgmond said. “Given that, I expect us to be very prepared for this scrimmage and to really give it all we’ve got.” 
VanEgmond said her goals are to integrate what the team has been working on in practice and translate that into success on the lake. 
“My personal expectations for this race are that we work to­gether as a team to execute the key elements that we work on at practice: length, rhythm, power, quickness, endurance and forti­tude,” she said. 
Like McShane, VanEgmond looks at this weekend’s race as a tremendous test and a great op­portunity. She also uses the fact that both Michigan and Michi­gan State made the NCAAs last year as motivation. 
“The overall team goal for this weekend is to win,” VanEgmond said. “Coming off the disappoint­ment of not making it to NCAAs last season, we are very eager to show the NCAA committee that we deserve to be there come spring. 
“Michigan and Michigan State are two very talented teams both of whom made appearanc­es at NCAAs this past year. Be­ing able to race these two teams right off the bat will give us an opportunity to see where we are at this point in the year and what we need to work on to reach our peak goal — making it to NCAAs come spring.” 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 

The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 16, 2011 
MEN’S TENNIS 

ND looks to start off strong 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame begins its fall schedule this weekend at the Illini Invitational in Olympia Fields, Ill. The Irish will face staunch competition from Illi­nois, Alabama, Texas and Cali­fornia. 
Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire is anxious to see his team take the courts for the first time this season. 
“I am excited to see us go out and compete,” Sachire said. “It is going to be great to see how our guys have developed and how we have developed as a team.” 
Irish head coach Bobby Bayl­iss is similarly excited, but finds it difficult to have expectations. 
“We can definitely use this weekend as a measuring stick of where we are as a team,” Bayl­iss said. “It is tough to have ex­pectations because it is so early in the season, but I know our guys will be ready to play hard and compete.” 
Sachire is eager to see the progress that has been made at No. 1 singles by senior Casey Watt and at No. 2 singles by sophomore Greg Andrews. 
“[Watt and Andrews] are cer­tainly in the elite pack of players that will be there,” Sachire said. “They both have been working very hard and I know they are prepared to compete against anyone.” 
Bayliss possesses high expec­tations for Andrews going into the season. 
“[Greg] had a strong summer playing in some professional tournaments,” Bayliss said. “I believe he is more than ready to become a marquee player for us this season.” 
Bayliss is also looking forward to watching the No. 1 doubles team of senior Niall Fitzgerald and junior Spencer Talmadge. 
“[Fitzgerald and Talmadge] were pretty strong as a duo last season,” Bayliss said. “There is a possibility that they will jump into that elite category this season.” 
The Irish will have one player making his collegiate debut this weekend, which is something Sa­chire is very excited about. 
“Freshman Wyatt McCoy will travel with us and make his de­but,” Sachire said. “It will be great to see him get his feet wet in an Irish uniform.” 
The Illini Invitational is the only clay court event the Irish will par-ticipate in this season. 


“Clay courts are different and unique,” Sachire said. “They cause longer points and will force our guys to have more precise footwork.” 
Watt is looking forward to the challenges that the clay could present. 
“[The Illini Invitational] will be pretty unique because it is a clay court tournament,” Watt said. “[It’s] one of the only ones in col­lege tennis and I am looking for­ward to it. It changes the game a lot.” 
The Irish will look for a strong showing on the clay courts this weekend to set the tone for the remainder of their fall campaign. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 


Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Season set to begin with Sunday matchups 
McGlinn ready to take on Lewis; Lyons set to play Ryan; Pasquerilla East and Welsh Family to face off 
By MEGHAN RODER, BRENDAN BELL, NICK BOYLE, BRIAN HARTNETT, ERNST CLEOFE, JOHN PRATT, ISAAC LORTON, MIKE MONACO, JONATHAN WARREN and STEPHANIE BANTA 
Sports Writers 
Old flames are going to be re­ignited Sunday when McGlinn faces Lewis. After McGlinn beat Lewis last year by one point to send the Shamrocks to the semi­finals, there is sure to be some dirt kicked up this weekend. 
McGlinn gives tribute to their coaching staff and core veterans on the team, such as seniors Jill Stinchcomb and Kate Tucker, as well as sophomore Catherine Kromkowski. Stinchcomb and Kromkowski are stacked up on the defensive line, and receiver Tucker takes care of the offensive business. 
Although captain Lauren Miller gives recognition to the returning vets, she is also enthu­siastic for the freshmen to expe­rience what McGlinn football is about. 
“Our team is eager to get out on the field,” Miller said. “We have a lot of new, fresh faces that are ready to get their feet wet, and get into the swing of things.” 
Lewis, on the other hand, is ready to turn the tables and take down McGlinn. Senior captain Margot Debot is grateful Lewis has the opportunity to play the Shamrocks so early in the sea­son. 
With hopes to improve and sim­plify their offense from last year, the Chicks are excited to toss the rock. Although the team may be small in numbers, their persona is about quality not quantity. 
“We have great impact play­ers such as [junior] Connaught Blood, [senior] Christine Hamma and co-captain [senior] Libby Redline,” Debot said. “We are sure to make a physical show­ing. I expect greatness from our team.” 
McGlinn and Lewis face off at 5 
p.m. Sunday at LaBar Fields. 
Lyons vs. Ryan 
Lyons and Ryan face off to open the season, both looking to open the season with a victory. 
Ryan senior captain Brianna Curtis has high expectations for the team this year. 
“Our ultimate goal is to make it to the Stadium for the champion­ship game,” Curtis said. 
Compared to last year, the Wildcats are better prepared for success because of a more-expe­rienced team. 
“Last year there were a lot of nerves, but now we have an older veteran team,” Curtis said. 
One player in particular Curtis said to watch for is junior receiv­er Kelly O’Brien. 
Lyons hopes that this year they will make strides toward becom­ing a better overall team. Sopho­more captain Aubreanna Bobb said Lyons is excited and ready for the season, and noted there are a few areas that the team needs to improve. 
“Our record last year was 1-3,” Bobb said. “We had good energy last year, but each individual’s energy varied, so this year we want to make sure everyone is pumped together as a unified team.” 
Senior quarterback and line­backer Kat Rodriguez, senior receivers and defensive backs Caroline Maroney and Carolyn Henderson and junior receiver and linebacker Erica Miller are key players for the Lions. 
Ryan and Lyons square off at 5 p.m. Sunday at LaBar Fields in hopes to start off their seasons on a good note. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Welsh Family 
Welsh Family and Pasquerilla East will both look to get their seasons off on a strong note against one another this Sunday. 
Welsh Family senior receiver and captain Charlotte Seasly has one goal for her team this sea­son: win a championship in Notre Dame Stadium. 

“We played for the champion­ship in the Stadium my freshman year,” Seasly said. “The experi­ence was so surreal. We want to make it back there this year and win.” 
The Whirlwind are return­ing all offensive starters from last year but one and expect this group to be very consistent. 
“Offensively, we will need to get back into a flow quickly,” Seasly said. “We’ve got a lot of starters coming back and will hopefully be able to carry over the chemis­try we’ve built up the last couple of years onto the field on Sunday.” 
On the other side of the ball, Pasquerilla East will counter with a fairly young and inexperi­enced but dynamic team. 
“We are very excited to take the field on Sunday,” senior cap­tain and receiver Kristin Man­nion said. “We are a young team, so the game Sunday will be a great opportunity to get every­one experience. We have a lot of young players who are anxious to show off their skills.” 
While the Pyros are exuberant in their youth, Mannion hopes her team will still play smart, fundamental football. 
“Last year we had a great team, but our offense struggled at times,” Mannion said. “This year we are very focused on hav­ing a good, fundamental, consis­tent offense. We want to be able to have long offensive drives, as opposed to having to rely on ‘Hail Mary’ plays for scoring.” 
Welsh Family and Pasquerilla East kick off their title quests at 6 
p.m. Sunday at LaBar Fields. 
Howard vs. Farley 
For Howard, the last two in­terhall football seasons have been ones of great success, as the Ducks have gone undefeated and captured the coveted cham­pionship both years. However, the Ducks will face a strong chal­lenge when they take the field Sunday against Farley, a team that advanced to the quarterfi­nals of last year’s playoffs. 
With the success that Howard has experienced over the last two years, it would only seem natural for senior receiver and captain Jenny Gassner to state the goal for this year’s team is to make it back to Notre Dame Stadium. 
“Luckily, many players from last year’s team are returning,” Gassner said. “We have a lot of girls who have played the entire game over the last two years.” 
The Ducks should benefit from experience, as the team lost only two seniors and return veterans such as senior safety Caroline Walsh. 
Looking to stop Howard is a 
see HOWARD/page 17 


page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 16, 2011 
on the basis of conference af­filiation. While Notre Dame 

Clark plays Michigan and Michigan 
continued from page 24 
been playing very well, but we need to get a real good team mentality on defense this weekend. I think that would be very important for us.” 
In their most recent outing, a 2-1 victory over Bucknell, the Irish saw a shutout oppor­tunity slip away when the Bi­son netted a goal in the 88th minute. The Irish defense has only held its opponent score­less once this year, a 0-0 draw against No. 9 Indiana (4-0-1) in the season opener. 
Senior defender Greg Kla­zura said the Irish have a good defense and are well or­ganized, but recognized there is room to im­prove. 
“I think we have got the athleticism and the talent State this weekend, fellow Big East member Marquette plays the two Big Ten teams in the opposite order. 
“It’s a Big East-Big Ten challenge, so there’s a lot of bragging rights here as well,” Clark said. 
When it’s Notre Dame’s turn to face the Spartans, the Irish will try to reverse the recent trend of the matchup. 
“They’ve had our number the last couple of years,” Clark said. “It’s been a few years since we won up there. I think it’s maybe been three years since we’ve beaten Michi­gan State [at home or away]. [Beating Michigan State] won’t be easy, like I said. It’s not an easy weekend. Two big riva lries for Notre Dame, and they’re ri­valries for them as 

to defend well, well.” 
“I think we have got 
but there have In the 
the athleticism and the 
been some game
talent to defend well, 
lapses in focus against
but there have been 
... and those Michiga n are times when some lapses in focus” State, Notre goals will go Dame won’t in,” Klazura Greg Klazura have the said. “I think home field 
senior defender 

that is an area that the whole team recog­nizes we can be better on.” 
Despite its unimpressive record thus far, Michigan re­turns several starters from last year’s Final Four team and has gone 2-0-1 in it’s last three games, including a draw against a Georgetown team hovering on the outskirts of the top-25 rankings. 
“It’ll be a hard game [against Michigan],” Clark said. “They played George­town last weekend to a tie, and Georgetown is a good team. They’ll be well orga­nized and you know they’ve got a bunch of talented play­ers so it’ll be a good test for us. And I think you can also throw in the Michigan-ND ri­valry. I think we need to try and even the score a little bit after last weekend in foot­ball.” 
Clark also finds signifi­cance in this weekend’s games advantage 
that it will 
enjoy for 
the Michi­
gan game. 
Still, Clark 
said he will expect his team to put forth strong performances both at home and on the road. 
“It’d be nice if we could take some fans on the road, but realistically both games are always difficult,” Clark said. “You look out, the field’s roughly the same size, the ball’s round and we both start with 11 players each on the field. So no matter how it’s nice and cozy to play at home, you’ve got to find a way to play whether you are at home or you are away. It doesn’t matter.” 
The Irish will kick off against Michigan at 7:30 p.m. Friday inside Alumni Stadium and at 1 p.m. Sunday at Mich­igan State. 
Contact Joe Monardo at             jmonardo@nd.edu 
Wisconsin 
continued from page 24 
er team — a little undersized 
— but they are scrappy,” Brown said. “They have great ball control and play great defense. They always do really well in the MAC.” 
The Badgers, on the other hand, hail from the Big Ten, and, as expected from a large conference school, possess some impressive athletes. Brown said Wisconsin’s offense will be a concern for the Irish come Sat­urday. 
“Wisconsin plays higher above the net, they’re bigger and rely more on their power and their offense,” she said. “They are go­ing to be a challenge for us.” 
Brown said she likes her team’s chances against both squads this weekend, but can­not yet determine which style suits her team’s play at this point in the season. 
“It’s a little too early to know,” Brown said. “I think we’re in be­tween the two styles [of Western Michigan and Wisconsin]. We can rally, we can dig well and we play pretty well above the net.” 
In order for the Irish to emerge victorious at the InnTowner In­vitational, they will have to im­prove their serving. Service er­rors cost Notre Dame dearly at times during the Golden Dome Invitational last weekend. 
Brown said her squad focused on cleaning up its serves during recent practices. 
“There has been a special em­phasis on serving this week,” she said. “We ordinarily serve a lot in practice, but we’ve been doing a drill where we hit three serves in a row. When we get a mini-run going with a good serve, we want to work on keep­ing it going a little longer.” 
Tonight’s action at the InnTowner Invitational starts at 5 p.m. Saturday’s match will be­gin at 7 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at           cbernard@nd.edu 

Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 21 
SMC GOLF 

SMC shocked by Hope, finishes second at opener 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles turned in a solid performance at Trine on Thurs­day in their first MIAA match of the year, but Saint Mary’s was overshadowed by a surprising performance from Hope College. 
The Belles finished second out of nine MIAA teams with a team score of 342, but ended the day 17 strokes back of first-place Hope. Hope finished third in the confer­ence last year with an average of almost 20 strokes per match behind the Belles, but looked like the team to beat in the early sea­son contest. 
Senior co-captain Natalie Ma­tuszak said she was surprised at the turn of events. 
“I guess they have a pretty good team this year, but they have nev­er really been a big threat to us,” Matuszak said. “We’ve always kind of gone head-to-head with Olivet, but we beat Olivet today so I guess we need to now have our sights set on Hope.” 
The last four seasons have end­ed with Saint Mary’s and Olivet claiming the top two spots in the conference, but after just one match this year, Hope is now a contender. 
The Belles need to perform at a higher level to beat Hope, senior co-captain Christine Brown said. 
“Actually seeing that Hope played as well as they did, they kind of weren’t on our radar of being a team to beat [before this performance],” senior co-captain Christine Brown said. “We know now that we need to be a little bit better to compete with them.” 
Brown earned the low score for the Belles on the day with her round of 80. Although Saint Mary’s fell short of the standard set by Hope for the day, it was still a successful beginning to the conference schedule, Brown said. 
“Overall we would like to do better because our ultimate goal is to come in first,” Brown said. “But we left a lot of strokes out there and we are just happy that we know now what we need to work on and improve on so that we can get better and focus on the next couple of weeks.” 
Thursday’s match was the first of four conference match­es in the regular season be­fore a two-round conference championship. At the end of the six rounds, the cumula­tive score will determine the MIAA Champion, a title Saint Mary’s held last year. 
The second conference match will be held at Hope on Sept. 21. As they prepare for that contest, the Belles will fo­cus on tightening up their play and maintaining confidence on the course. 
“It’s kind of just critiquing what we know how to do and not be making those little, mi­nor mistakes that can add up as the round goes on,” Brown said. “We all know that we are great golfers and have it in us. It’s just putting that out and being able to express that [on the course].” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles head to season’s first 5K 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary’s cross country team continues their season Sat­urday at the Calvin Invitational in Grand Rapids, Mich. The Calvin Invitational will mark the first 5k meet of the new season. 
Head coach Jackie Bauters said the competition will be strong. 
“The competition looks to be tight,” Bauters said. “There will be a range of teams from NAIA, Division II, and ranked Division III programs in attendance.” 
The Belles will face tough op­position within their Great Lakes region from No. 2 Calvin, No. 3 Ohio Northern and No. 8 Bald­win Wallace. Solid NAIA members Cornerstone and Aquinas will also compete. 
Despite the stiff competition, Bauters holds high expectations for the season. 
“What I am hoping to see is that we get out and run our own race,” Bauters said. “I believe the girls will perform well with the compe­tition at hand.” 
Junior Julia Kenney also said it was necessary for the Belles to run their own race. 
“We plan to go out there and race our race,” Kenney said. “We look forward to competing well and getting everyone off to a strong start.” 
Bauters sees the Calvin Invita­tional as a chance to make a strong early impression. 
“It would be great to have a strong finish among our regional opponents this early in the season,” Bauters said. “It will also be helpful to size ourselves up and determine what we need to do to achieve our larger goals for the season.” 
While the meet brings tough competition, Kenney still main­tains a positive outlook. 
“Personally, this is one of my fa­vorite races,” Kenney said. 
Saint Mary’s will race at the Cal­vin Invitational on Saturday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Walker Carey at           wcarey@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Team faces challenge at Adrian 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Undefeated Saint Mary’s will face a tough road test Saturday as it meets Adrian College. 
The Belles (5-0, 1-0 MIAA) rolled through the first quarter of their season without much dif­ficulty, scoring 16 goals in five contests. They surrendered a sole goal Sept. 6 to Manchester. 
Saint Mary’s defeated Olivet by a score of 3-”0 in the confer­ence season opener Wednesday, but Belles coach Michael Joyce expects the Bulldogs to be more of a challenge. 
“There are a number of good teams in the conference and Adrian is one of them,” Joyce said. “We’ve done very well against the easier competition so we’re excited to see how we stack up against the conference con­tenders.” 
After losing to Wittenberg and Denison, Adrian snagged an upset over Alma. 
“Adrian beat last year’s confer­ence champion and this year’s fa­vorite Alma 3-2 [Wednesday], so we’re expecting a tough game,” Joyce said. 
The Belles will focus on stopping the offensive onslaught of Adrian forward Sam Barker, who has five goals and three assists so far this season, including two goals and an assist in Wednesday’s victory. 
“Obviously we’re going to have to pay close attention to her,” Joyce said. “If we can shut her down, we’ll give ourselves a good chance to be successful.” 
The Saint Mary’s attack has been led by senior Katelyn Tondo-Steele, junior Maddie Meckes and sophomore Jordan Diffenderfer with three goals apiece. 
Saturday’s match will be the first conference road game of the season for Saint Mary’s, but Joyce doesn’t think the site puts his team at a disadvantage. 
“They have an artificial turf field which changes the game a little — so we’ll have to adjust for that — but I think we play well away from home,” Joyce said. 
The Belles will kick off against the Bulldogs at 12 p.m. Saturday at Adrian College. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


page 22 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 16, 2011 
Lee 
continued from page 24 
I know the Joyce, I know the community. All my friends and family are going to be here — it’s a comfort zone.” 
Lee will donate proceeds from the event to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Robinson Community Learning Center of South Bend. Parseghian, a former Irish football coach, will join former men’s basketball coach Digger Phelps, who is very involved with the Robinson Center, at the event. 
Lee had the opportunity to meet children from the Robin­son Center this week during a public workout. 
“[Meeting them] meant a lot,” Lee said. “They were all sit­ting front row during the pub­lic workout and they loved it. The smiles on their faces were pretty incredible. I got to sign all their T-shirts and they were really pumped up. It’s days like that that made all the days training in Houston worth it.” 
Lee credits his team, includ­ing trainer Ronnie Shields, with preparing him to play on such a large stage. 
“I truly believe if I fought myself 15 months ago, I would knock myself out,” he said. “It sounds like a funny statement, but I believe it to be true. The only reason it’s true is because of [the team].” 
Lee will fight a talented com­petitor, Jacob Stiers (4-1, 2 KOs), but he said he is ready for the bout. 
“I’m definitely ready,” Lee said. “If I wasn’t ready at this point, it wouldn’t be worth do­ing. It was seven weeks of Hous­ton training and I’m always in and out of the gym, so we had a hard, long training camp and a public workout in the Joyce Center yesterday, and I felt ter­rific.” 
Lee said the challenge now is to stay relaxed and remain in the right mindset for the fight. 
“I think after this I go back to the hotel room and look forward to relaxing, but it’s an honor to have these people talk about me and it’s humbling,” he said. “Friday night my focus is in the ring. I’ve always been able to do that. I’ve been able to shrug everything out and as soon as I get my hands wrapped, I’m a different person.” 
The fight will begin at 9 p.m. tonight at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Owens at         aowens2@nd.edu 
Scodro 
continued from page 24 
without our best game, but the guys have looked great in their practice rounds here. They really have.” 
Having confidence in their shots will be of utmost im­portance to a very talent­ed Irish team if they hope to compete for a title this weekend. If they do, Kubin­ski said Scodro and the Irish will give the waitresses of Olympia Fields something to cheer about. 
The Irish take to the course this Friday at Olym­pia Fields Country Club in Chicago, Ill. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
Catholic 
continued from page 24 
race only four freshmen out of their 21 runners. 
“[The experienced run­ners] will have a significant impact. We’re adding a few seasoned guys,” Piane said. “We have some guys that didn’t run two weeks ago that we expect to do well.” 
Still not racing, how­ever, will be junior Jeremy Rae and senior Johnathan Shawel. During outdoor track season, Rae finished ninth at the NCAA Finals in the 1,500-meter race while Shawel ended 13th. Both are hindered by Achilles inju­ries. 
Big East foe Marquette will once again be matched up against the Irish, pos­ing a difficult test for Notre Dame. 
“I don’t expect anything different from them,” Piane said. “Hopefully, we run a little better.” 
The women’s team will also return to the National Catholic Championships to de­fend their crown after beating Dayton last season. The title marked Notre Dame’s eighth in the past 10 years and 17th overall. 
Irish sophomore Meg Ryan won the five-kilometer race last year as a freshman with a time of 17:37. However, she will not race Friday due to a sore hip. 
“We’re going to hold off on her,” Irish women’s coach Tim Connelly said. “It’s still early in the year and we have to be patient.” 
Sophomore Alexa Aragon will return for the Irish after not competing in the Crusader Invitational at Valparaiso. Ara­gon finished the cross country season strong last year, earn­ing 22nd place at the NCAA Re­gional meet and earning All-Region honors. 
“She’s been training really well,” Connelly said of Aragon. “She closed out last year strong, getting better each race.” 
Also racing for the Irish will be veteran runners like senior Molly Hirt, junior Rebecca Tra­cy and senior Rachel Velarde. 
This year’s National Catho­lic Championships features 11 


Irish senior Jordan Carlson competes at the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 1, 2010. 
NCAA Division I institutions the men’s race is slated for 5 including Xavier, Dayton, Mar-p.m. quette and DePaul. 
The women’s championship Contact Matthew DeFranks at   race begins at 4:15 p.m., while mdefrank@nd.edu 

Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE KELLy LyNCH AND JOE MILLER 


JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


XOPYR  

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
VOACH CLABHE PCDITE  

Answer here: THE 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: FORUM FLUID PURSER PUBLICYesterday’s 
Answer: They were given one when they went to buya softer mattress — A FIRM PRICE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, September 16, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
BOXING 
Lee feels no pressure ahead of historic bout 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Mike Lee said the day he re­ceived his acceptance letter to Notre Dame was the greatest day of his life. Until now, that is. 
“I think Friday night might top that for me,” Lee said. “For me to go to school and meet peo­ple that did so much for me and to give back at this point in my career — this point in my life — is pretty incredible.” 
The Wheaton, Ill. native and 2009 graduate will participate in the first-ever professional boxing match at Notre Dame on Friday night. But Lee, 6-0 with four career KOs, said he does not feel too much pressure. 
“My dad and I had a dream of coming back here and giving back to charity as well, so it’s all come full circle now,” he said. “So I’m very familiar with these surroundings, so a lot of people want to talk about pressure, but to me it’s the opposite. 
see LEE/page 22 

Ready to rumble 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND heads to Madison for tourney 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
With Big East play beginning next weekend, the Irish have two matches left to bolster their non-conference résumé. Stand­ing in their way are two chal­lenging opponents. 
Notre Dame (5-3) will take on Western Michigan (8-1) tonight and Wisconsin (6-3) Saturday at the InnTowner Invitational in Madison, Wis. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown knows the Western Michigan and Wisconsin programs well, and said both will challenge her squad. 
“Both schools have very strong programs, but in differ­ent ways,” she said. 
According to Brown, the Broncos perennial success in the Mid-American Conference stems from great ball control and fundamentals. 
“Western Michigan is a small 
see WISCONSIN/page 20 
MEN’S GOLF 

Scodro returns to Olympia Fields against top competition 
By CONOR KELLY end.” strongest field we’ve ever ing finish last weekend at the without that fear.” Sports Writer The Irish and 14 other played in,” Kubinski said. Gopher Invitational in Way-Kubinski will look for bet-teams will play in the Olym-“There should be 12 teams zata, Minn. Up four shots on ter performances from se-
When Irish coach Jim pia Fields Invitational host-in the top-20 in the country Arkansas with a round to go, niors Tom Usher and Chris Kubinski and senior Max ed by Illinois at the Olympia here. Duke, Stanford, Texas, the Irish fired a final round Walker, who averaged rounds Scodro were out to breakfast Fields Country Club, which some very good Big Ten and 307 (+19) and slipped into of 77 and 76 respectively in Thursday morning at Olym-Scodro has belonged to since SEC teams and defending third place behind Arkansas Minnesota. pia Fields Country Club in he was a child. national champion Augusta and North Texas. “I think all our guys will Chicago, Ill., a waitress ap-The Irish will welcome any State will be here.” “We already know we’re a bounce back from a slightly proached the pair. advantage Scodro’s experi-For a team that would like to great team,” Kubinski said. discouraging tournament, at 
She came to their table and ence playing at the club will count itself amongst the best “It’s up to us now to show that least in the final day,” Kubin­told Kubinski, “They tell us bring as they play on what in the country, this weekend we’re a great team. I think in ski said. “Overall, we showed we’re supposed to be impar-may be one of the toughest will be important. The Irish the final round last week we that we can do very well even tial here, but we’re all rooting fields in the country. are hoping to bounce back started playing to protect and for Max [Scodro] this week-“This will certainly be the after a somewhat disappoint-not to win. We need to play see SCODRO/page 22 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish ready to take on Big Ten 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame defense has allowed six goals through in their first five regular season games, and according to Irish coach Bobby Clark, that’s six too many. 
The No. 22 Irish (2-1-2) have two chances this weekend to post shutouts and appease their coach. Michigan (2-4-1) will come to South Bend on Friday before the Irish travel to East Lansing to face Michigan State (1-4-0) Sunday. 
“We’ve got to start getting shutouts,” Clark said. “[Senior goalkeeper] Will Walsh has 
see CLARK/page 20 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Team hopes to claim Catholic Championship 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 

A hoard of 32 teams, in­cluding the Irish, will invade the Notre Dame Cross Coun­try Course for the National Catholic Championships on Friday. A total of 823 runners will compete, but only one will cross the finish line first. 
The National Catholic Cham­pionships, the brainchild of Irish men’s coach Joe Piane, enters its 32nd year of exis­tence. The Irish men’s squad has won the race a record 21 times, including 19 of the past 24. 
“It was just a brainstorm,” Piane said. “We thought it might be an interesting idea to have Catholic schools together to compete against each oth­er.” 
Senior Jordan Carlson and sophomore Martin Grady highlight an experienced group of Irish runners racing Friday. Grady finished ninth in the race a year ago. Contrast­ing the Crusader Invitational roster, when youth dominated the selections, the Irish will 
see CATHOLIC/page 22 







