the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Jenkins: Seeberg investigation had ‘integrity’ 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Following media coverage of sexual assault allegations made by Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg and an announcement from the St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office that no charges would be filed, the University called its investigation “thorough and careful.” 
Seeberg, a first year Saint Mary’s student, alleged that a Notre Dame student athlete sexu­ally assaulted her on Aug. 31. She committed suicide Sept. 10. 
The University had previously declined to comment on the topic, citing the Family Educational 

Campus launches off-campus program 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The Off-Campus Council has set up an off-campus student ambassador program in order to increase communication with students living off campus. 
The program, which began at the end of last semester, assigns a student representative to each off-campus area where students live. These representatives, who live off campus in the same area, are able to be direct liaisons between the council and the stu­dents. 
Off-campus president Ryan Hawley said student government came up with the idea while dis­cussing ways to increase the effectiveness of Off-Campus Council. 
“It’s really to gain better com­munication with off-campus stu­dents,” Hawley said. “It’s hard when there’s three members of the Off-Campus Council and about 1,800 students off (cam­pus).” 
Hawley said the ambassadors are geographically based, with a student from each of the housing complexes surrounding Notre Dame as well as from different neighborhoods of student hous­es. 
The jobs of the ambassadors are mainly to distribute informa­
see COUNCIL/page 3 
Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which prohibits colleges and uni­versities from discussing students’ education records. 
“As you know it’s unusual and perhaps unprecedented for me to comment on a case like this,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a Dec. 21 interview with The South Bend Tribune. “But I cannot stand by and allow the integrity of Notre Dame to be challenged so publicly.” 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said because Notre Dame takes FERPA seriously, it has a policy of not publicly acknowledg­ing the presence of disciplinary investigations. 
“We think the principle of priva­cy is so important that we’re will­ing to take some of the criticism that comes with that,” Brown said. 
The University worked with the accused student in the case of Seeberg’s allegations, however, and decided to speak about the investigation, Brown said. 
“The investigation was thorough and careful and I believe that that needs to be understood by all,” Jenkins told The South Bend Tribune. “The main point I want to make is the investigation had integrity. It followed the facts where it led and any results were based on that sort of investiga­tion.” 
According to a Dec. 16 press release from the St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office, Seeberg alleged sexual battery, or forced touching of her breasts. Seeberg did not make an allegation of rape. 
On Sept. 1, Brown said Seeberg went to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center to report a Notre Dame student-athlete assaulted her while they were in his dorm room on the evening of Aug. 31. A Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) officer, who Brown said has over 35 years of experience and has investigated over 200 sex crime allegations, met Seeberg at the hospital that evening and took a handwritten statement. 
The next day, Seeberg asked the officer for a copy of her original statement and said she would like to submit a second statement. 
While waiting for Seeberg’s sec­ond statement, Brown said the officer spoke with two students who had been with Seeberg and the accused student the evening of the alleged assault. 
Seeberg e-mailed that statement to the officer at 9 p.m. on Sunday, Sept. 5. Because the following day was Labor Day, Brown said the officer did not view the new state­ment until Sept. 7, at which time he found inconsistencies with the other two students’ statements. 
The NDSP officer contacted the 
see SEEBERG/page 5 



Greenfields undergoes renovation 
By VICTORIA JACOBSEN 
News Writer 

When customers return to Greenfields Café in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies this semester, they will find ren­
ovations have made the campus eatery hard to rec­ognize. 
Many aspects of the café 
— from the décor to the menu — have been modified with the goal of improving convenience and healthy eating options while lessen­ing negative impact on the environment. 
Greenfields has not been given a full renovation since the Hesburgh Center opened in 1991. In addition to giv­ing the café a more modern feel, the changes are aimed at making the ordering process more user-friendly, executive chef of the University Donald Miller said. 
“If someone is busy and wants to work at their desk, they can avoid standing in a long line, which we’ve been known to have,” Miller said. “Or, they can sit down at their leisure, so it’s adding a new dimension of service.” 
In order to cut down on 
see CAFE/page 4 



‘Heritage’ dinner to honor Moreau 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 

Saint Mary’s will be host­ing a French-themed dinner in honor of the feast of Father Basil Moreau. 
The dinner — which will be held on Wednesday in the Noble Family Dining Hall from 4:30 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. — will feature French dishes in honor of Moreau’s French heritage. 
According to an e-mail sent to the student body from Barry Bowles, director of dining services, dishes include food items such as Coq au Vin, a chicken dish with mush­rooms, burgundy wine and brandy . Other dishes include Salade Verte Assortie, Róti de Boeuf au Poirve and Pommes Lyonnaise. 

see MOREAU/page 4 


By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Some members of Notre Dame’s Class of 2011 will end their four-year college careers by completing their final semester at Notre Dame as part-time students. 
Assistant registrar Lora Spaulding said many seniors choose to become part-time students in order to save money on tuition. 
“If it’s a student’s last semester and they need less than 12 credit hours to grad­uate, they can discuss the possibility of becoming part-time with their academic dean,” Spaulding said. “We currently have 192 seniors enrolled as part-time, which in the grand scheme of things really isn’t that many.” 
Spaulding said tuition for part-time students is based on the number of credit hours they are taking during the semester. This semester, part-time students will pay $1,642 per credit hour, she said. 
According to Spaulding, seniors who enroll part-time are unable to live on campus, but still have student IDs and continue to have the same 
see SENIORS/page 4 



Seniors end careers as part-time students 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Campuses aim to improve student health page 3  Black Swan page 8  Men’s hockey to face Ohio State page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, January 21, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 

THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, FOUR QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: 
Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


What was your favorite game so far this season? Novosel: The UConn game, because we stepped up our level of play, and ever since then, we’ve been playing to make a statement in the Big East Conference. 
When did you start playing basketball? Novosel: My dad went to col­lege for basketball and he got my siblings and me playing when we were little. 
How do you get in the zone before games? Novosel: I usually shoot with one other teammate in the pit, and we listen to music to get ready for the game. 
Can you explain your nickname, Nasty? Novosel: It started when I played with my club team when I was a freshman in high school. They gave me the nickname and it’s been with me ever since. 



Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Students exercise on the cardio equipment in the fitness room of Rockne Memorial on Thursday. Faculty expect gym attendance to increase drastically as students escape the cold. 
OFFBEAT 

Restaurant to sell lion meat tacos 
TUCSON, Ariz. — A Tucson taco restaurant already has served up python, alligator, elk, kanga­roo, rattlesnake and turtle. 
What’s next? Lion meat. 
Boca Tacos y Tequila says it’s accepting prepaid orders for African lion tacos, to be served starting Feb. 16. Orders must be placed by Feb. 7 and owner Bryan Mazon says there are already a few reservations from curious customers. 
Mazon says his restaurant started offering exotic tacos on its menu every Wednesday about six months ago and has tried “just about anything we can get our hands on.” 
According to the Food and Drug Administration, lion and other game meat can be sold as long as the species isn’t endangered. 
The Arizona Daily Star says most of Boca’s exotic tacos range between $3 and $4. The lion tacos will cost $8.75 apiece. 
Buckeye fan builds Lego replica 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — A Columbus-area man has created a Lego replica of Ohio State’s horseshoe-shaped football stadium, complete with a decorated archway and scoreboard made of the small blocks. 
Paul Janssen used about a million Lego pieces to build the 8-foot-by-6-foot model, which has room for 6,000 Lego people. 
The 42-year-old Ohio State researcher tells The Columbus Dispatch it was a challenge to create the rounded model out of the mostly rectangular blocks that fill his basement in stacked containers. 
It took about 1,000 hours over two years. He studied the stadium, bought or trad­ed for pieces and impro­vised, such as making pipes for the restrooms out of chrome parts from a Lego truck. 
Now he’s talking about adding a BCS or Heisman trophy to the display. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Snite Museum of Art will display four etchings by Francisco de Goya until this Sunday. The display is located in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery. 
The 22nd Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival will take place tonight and tomorrow in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Screenings will take place at 
6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Cost is $3 for students, $5 for faculty and $6 for the public. 
Evidence, A Dance Company will perform tonight at 7 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $15 for students. 
Student Activities Office will show “The Goonies” as part of their Dive-In movie event. The event starts at 10 p.m. tonight in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
A passport fair will be held tomorrow from 8 a.m. to 12 
p.m. in Hammes Mowbray Hall. No appointments necessary. 
The film “The Apartment” will be shown tomorrow at 3 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $3 for students. 
The Student Activities Office will sponsor Roller Rink 80’s Night tomorrow at 9 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. Free skate rental and snacks provided. 
“Superman’s Shorts” will be shown on Sunday from 3 to 5 
p.m. The event will take place in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and is $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Masoud Kristen Durbin Matthew Robison Caitlin Housley Andrew 
Graphics Gastelum Sofia Iturbe Scene Photo Courtney Cox Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Madeline Roe 
HIGH LOW 
20 11 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight saturday sunday monday tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 




09 HIGH 08 HIGH 17 2627
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


08 LOW 07 LOW 13 2016 






Friday, January 21, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Campuses take initiatives to improve health 
SMC creates communal walking program 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
For some fresh air and exercise, Saint Mary ’s College Women’s Health cre­ated a program offering stu­dents, faculty and staff the opportunity to come together for a community walk each weekday at 12:15 p.m., Catherine DeCleene, director of Women’s Health said. 
“We began the walks because walking at a moder­ate pace for 30 to 60 min­utes burns stored fat and can build muscle to speed up your metabolism,” she said. “Walking is also associated with cutting your risk of heart disease, breast cancer, colon cancer, diabetes and stroke.” 
Women’s Health held the first walk on Monday. 
DeCl eene said the walks will increase to two miles as the weather improves. 
“Let’s face it, everyone tries to begin each year in a healthy, positive light,” DeCleene said. “What better way than you take a few “Walking burns approxi­minutes out of your day to mately the same amount of enjoy the beauty of the Saint calories per mile as does 

Mary’s campus, meet new running, a people, get some exer ­cise and 
“Often dismissed in the
break your day up.” past as being too easy 
According to be taken seriously, to DeCleene, 
walking recently has
about 12 to 

15 people gained new respect as a said. “Brisk have partici-means of improving walking one pated in mile in 15 
physical fitness”
walks each minutes day thus far. burns just 
“Most peo-Catherine DeCleene about the ple already Director of Women’s Health same number know the of calories as 
Saint Mary’s College 
importance 
of exercise for a healthy life, but still fail to get start­ed,” DeCleene said. “It is a well -documented and 
According 
“Most people already
to DeCleene, walkers meet know the importance of 
each day at exercise for a healthythe mailbox 
life, but still fail to get
outside of Holy Cross started.” Hall. Walkers then proceed 
Catherine DeCleene 
to walk one 
Director of Women’s Health 
mile around 
Saint Mary’s College 
campus. 
accepted fact that exercise is essential for ensuring that body systems and functions work proper­ly. People who do not exercise on a regular basis suffer from various ail ­ments and diseases as they grow 
older, including the problem of obesity.” 
DeCleene said walking can be just as effective as jog­ging and can improve physi­cal fitness. 
fact particularly appealing to those who find it diffi ­cult to sus ­tain the jar­ring effects of long distance jogging,” she 
jogging an 
equal dis ­

tance in eight and a half minutes.” 
DeCleene encourages everyone to attend the walks, emphasizing the importance of exercise for a healthy lifestyle. 
“Often dismissed in the past as being too easy to be taken seriously, walking recently has gained new respect as a means of improving physical fitness,” she said. “Studies show that, when done briskly on a reg­ular schedule, it can improve the body’s ability to consume oxygen during exertion, lower the resting heart rate, reduce blood pressure and increase the efficiency of the heart and lungs. It also helps burn excess calories.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



Rolfs attendance increases as students escape the cold 

By REGINA WOOD 
News Writer 
As the weather grows colder and the second semester begins, more students are working out, according to Jennie Phillips, assistant director of fitness and fitness facilities at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center (RSRC). 
On Tuesday, 1,900 students worked out at Rolfs. Phillips expects that number to rise to at least 2,000 people by next Monday, the beginning of the first full week of classes and Rolfs’ usual peak day of the year. 
The RecSports staff reminds its supervisors this is the busiest time of year in all of their facilities so they need to be sure to pay attention to even the smallest detail such as cleaning up the snow and salt that gets tracked into the facilities. 
“Our goal is to make our facilities a welcoming place for the entire campus commu­nity,” Phillips said, “Since August we’ve installed new fitness equipment, new televi­sions and new flooring in the RSRC fitness room. Other areas of the RSRC have new flooring or carpet and we are awaiting the delivery of new furniture for the lounge area.” 
In addition, many students attended free fitness classes this week during the “Try It You’ll Like It” program. The most popular class this year is “zumba,” which is a hot trend throughout the United States. 
Phillips said students appre­ciated the chance to try out instructors and classes before 




Council 
continued from page 1 
tion to the students in their juris­diction and to get student feed­back on life off campus. Hawley said the group is mainly concen­trating on security and safety issues. 
“That’s our primary focus right now, how do we alleviate that,” Hawley said. “Our initial thing is sending out crime alerts so they know if something happened near them.” 
Hawley said these crime alerts have prompted many students not only to become more aware of their surroundings, but also to report other incidents that the Off-Campus Council hadn’t known about. 
The Off-Campus Council recruited students for the ambas­sador positions by e-mailing all of the students currently living off campus. Hawley said the fact that a person responded to the e­mail means they will be perfect for the job. 
“Naturally, the people who responded were the people inter­ested in solving problems,” Hawley said. 
Student will have bi-weekly meetings at Studebagels — an incentive to join — while others volunteered due to personal experiences with crime. Senior ambassador Deirdre Murdy said she was motivated because her neighborhood has had several making any commitments. 
Stephanie Prince, a fresh­man planning to major in biol­ogy, said, “I loved trying out “Step N Sculpt” because it was a fun way to exercise and had good music. It inspired me to exercise more this semester.” 
In addition, Rolfs offers free training for students wishing to do their first 5-k or first half marathon. Throughout the semester, there will also be other free services, such as body composition tests, blood pressure measurements and strength equipment orienta­tions. Students can also sign up for small personal training groups of two to four people. 
Students can find more about the free fitness services and all of RecSports’ pro­grams at recsports.nd.edu. Students can also receive a weekly e-newsletter detailing upcoming events and pro­grams. 
Phillips said she anticipates the number of students will taper off after spring break as students become busier, Bookstore Basketball gets underway and the weather gets warmer. 
“It is really helpful to talk to a professional just so you are making the most out of your time and your workouts are safe and effective,” Phillips said. “Do what you like. Schedule exercise in your planner or phone. Find a buddy to work out with. We have so many things to get involved with, including intra-murals, club sports, late night Olympics and fitness classes.” 
Contact Regina Wood at rwood6@nd.edu 
security issues. 
“When I saw the opportunity to be more in touch with Off-Campus Council and hopefully increase security for our area I figured it would be helpful,” Murdy said. 
Lauren Hemington, the ambas­sador for Legacy Village, was also happy to join the program. Hemington said she was encour­aged by the communal aspect of it. 
“I just felt senior year I wasn’t really doing as many activities as I could be,” Hemington said. “I just got an e-mail and thought, ‘Why not meet different people my last semester?’” 
In addition, Hemington said she hopes to present some of her own ideas to improve off-campus life, including the possibility of an off-campus dining hall. 
“I miss the whole social aspect of the dining hall,” Hemington said. “And I feel a lot of people aren’t using their meal plans, so I think it’d be really convenient.” 
Off-Campus Council is continu­ing to spread the news of the program to students. Hawley said while they’re still looking for more students to become ambas­sadors, they’d also like to encour­age those who already have ambassadors to utilize them. 
“We really want students to use their ambassador and to contact people,” Hawley said. “We want them to know what’s going on.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 21, 2011 
become more sustainable altogether,” Reynolds said. 


Café 
continued from page 1 
long lines and increase meal 
options, Greenfields now offers a hot cereal bar for breakfast and a soup bar dur­ing lunch hours, as well as various pre -packaged a la carte items. 
The new décor is made almost exclusively of recycled or sustainable materials. The sides of the counters, for example, are made of pressed sorghum, while each chair is made of 111 recycled Coke bottles. 
The effort to increase sus­tainability extends to the menu itself. The containers that package the to-go prod­ucts are recyclable, and almost all the ingredients for menu items are locally pro­duced, which cuts down on environmental impact caused by transportation. 
Greenfields executive chef Karen Reynolds described the changes at Greenfields Café as part of a University-wide trend. 
“As a campus, the initiative is to go for more locally grown products and to 
The increased emphasis on healthy meal options on the new menu is likewise a response to initiatives on the part of the University. 
“This is an extension of the University’s overall initiative for wellness. This is some­thing they envisioned,” Miller said. “The University is defi­nitely interested in having 
p e o p l e  l i v e  h e a l t h i e r  
lifestyles, for a  lot of  rea - 
sons.”  

The menu options are most­ly comprised of low-fat and organic foods, and taste was an important factor in designing the menu, Miller said. 
“Our goal is to give great flavor profiles, so that people come not because it’s healthy but because it tastes good,” he said. 
Reynolds was optimistic about customer reception of the changes at Greenfields. 
“I hope that we get more [customers], Reynolds said. “I hope people are interested in eating better and trying some healthy food.” 
Contact Victoria Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



Moreau 
continued from page 1 
A bread and cheese display will also be included with the meal. A dessert station with assorted pastries and a variety of desserts will also be available. 
Sr. Mary Gude, vice president of Missions, said the dinner was held in honor of the found­ing of the College and Moreau’s contributions. 
“Saint Mary’s College is a Holy Cross school,” Gude said. “The Sisters of the Holy Cross began teaching young women in 1844, a year after they came from Le Mans to the United States. From those beginnings evolved Saint Mary’s College, under the guidance of Mother Pauline.” 
The dinner will be part of Saint Mary’s College Heritage Week, a week celebrating the history of the College. Heritage Week. The week is sponsored by the Student Government Association (SGA) and will begin Monday. 
According to Gude, the din­ner has become a tradition at the College, and is held annual­ly on or near Moreau’s feast day. 
“It’s become a family tradi­tion or ritual to remind us who we are,” she said. 
Gude said it is important to honor Moreau’s feast day because he was such an influ­ential person in the founding of the College. 
“In a very real sense, without his vision, we would not be here at all,” she said. 
Moreau was the founder of the brothers, sisters and priests of Holy Cross, Gude said. 
“Saint Mary’s College is one small piece in a vast mosaic of Holy Cross ministries,” she said. “The family of Holy Cross serves in 16 countries and five continents. And it all began with Basil Moreau.” 
According to the e-mail, the dinner is open to all students with I.D., regardless of whether or not a meal plan was pur­chased. Faculty and staff are also invited to attend with I.D. cards. 
In addition, the e-mail said family and friends of the College, as well as guests of the community were invited to attend. The cost for a meal is $4.39. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



Seniors 
continued from page 1 
opportunities that full-time students have. 
“Part-time students can still go to Rolfs and can still have a meal plan, if they choose to do so,” she said. 
Senior Allie Colaco, a biology major, said she is taking just one class as a part-time stu­dent this semester. 
“I had the credits, so I fig­ured I might as well save the money,” she said. 
As a part-time student, Colaco said she will fill up some of her free time by work­ing in a lab and serving as a teaching assistant (TA) in undergraduate science classes. 
Senior Kevin Ritt said he did-n’t initially plan on becoming a part-time student this semes­ter. 
“The idea of being part-time hadn’t really occurred to me, but my parents asked if I would mind doing it to save them some money,” Ritt said. “I have two brothers, one who just graduated, and one who is a sophomore in college, so the option of saving some cash was very appealing to them, and, frankly, the idea of only having one class didn’t bother me too much either.” 
Ritt said he is especially look­ing forward to having more free time. 
“I’m going to spend my time looking for a job after gradua­tion, working out, and trying to hang out with my friends as much as possible before we all scatter after graduation,” he said. “I also expect to be out­rageously good at video games by the end of this semester.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at 

eschrank@nd.edu 

Friday, January 21, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Seeberg 
continued from page 1 
accused student on Sept. 9, but the student did not return the phone call. 
The officer learned on Sept. 11, a Saturday, that the Sept. 10 sui­cide of a Saint Mary’s student was Seeberg. On Monday, Sept. 13, Brown said the officer contacted other local law enforcement agen­cies because the death changed the perspective of the investiga­tion. He also tried again to contact the accused student. The accused student met with the NDSP officer on Sept. 15. 
The Seeberg family, through media outlets such as ABC News and The Chicago Tribune, expressed concern with the two-week period between the original allegation and the meeting with the accused student. In his inter­view with The South Bend Tribune, Jenkins cited the incon­sistencies between the students’ statements as reason for the delay. 
“We conducted an investigation, I think, that was judicious and fair to all parties involved,” Jenkins said. “We grieve for the Seebergs, for the loss of their daughter. At the same time, we have to follow the facts where they lead.” 
According to the statements from Seeberg, she was with the accused student, a Saint Mary’s student and another male Notre Dame student in a men’s resi­dence hall at Notre Dame on the evening of Aug. 31. 
Seeberg’s statement said the two male students appeared to text message one another, and then the male student and Saint Mary’s student left the room. According to Chicago attorney Joseph A. Power, Jr., who is repre­senting the accused student, cell phone records that NDSP obtained for the investigation show that this text messaging did not occur. 
Seeberg alleged that the male student-athlete then kissed her and touched her breasts, then threw her aside when he received a text message or phone call. 
Power said the text messages showed neither a text message nor incoming phone call at that time. He said the statements from the other three students and the subpoenaed cell phone records support a phone call from the accused student to the other male student. According to Power, Seeberg’s statement was inconsis­tent with those of the three other students, who said the phone call was placed because the accused student wanted the other two stu­dents to return to the room. 
“I think it’s important that peo­ple recognize that the evidence shows one phone call,” Power said. “And that’s from the [accused student] from his phone to the dorm mate.” 
The December press release from the St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office on its decision not to prosecute also cited incon­sistencies in the statements. 
“Only Ms. Seeberg and the stu­dent-athlete were present during the alleged battery,” the release stated. “Conflicts exist among the witnesses’ accounts of the events given to the police. Subpoenaed cell phone records are inconsis­tent with parts of the complaint itself.” 
Jenkins said the University allows the prosecutor to make a conclusion on charges before determining whether to proceed with an internal disciplinary process. Brown said the University has not yet decided whether to hold a disciplinary hearing. 
In November, Seeberg’s parents sent a letter through their attor­ney to Jenkins, Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle and Notre Dame general counsel Marianne Corr. 
According to Brown, Corr read the letter and also sent it to NDSP. Because Jenkins and Doyle could ultimately serve as levels of appeal in the University’s disciplinary process, they did not read the let­ter. 
“I am the ultimate court of appeal in disciplinary matters and, consequently, I tried to remain somewhat distant so I am not tainted by one side or another presenting their side of the story,” Jenkins told The South Bend Tribune. 
Doyle met Lizzy’s father Tom Seeberg on Sept. 13 at a memorial Mass for Lizzy on Saint Mary’s campus. Since that time, Brown said Doyle maintained regular contact with Tom Seeberg. 
Tom Seeberg declined to com­ment. 
Beyond the Seeberg investiga­tion, Brown said the University is working with the U.S. Department of Education on an overall review of its policies. This review is not related to any specific case. 
He also said NDSP normally does not send reports to St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office if the student filing an allegation does not request that it be for­warded. Seeberg had not expressed an interest in sending the report to the prosecutor, but the University did choose to for­ward the investigation results. 
The University will work with the prosecutor’s office to decide whether to begin forwarding every investigation into sexual assault allegations, Brown said. 
“We’ll work with the prosecutor on that and try to determine what practice we should follow going forward,” he said. 
Jenkins said there is always a potential to improve investiga­tions. 
“I’m certain, we can always improve,” he said, “but I am confi­dent that this investigation was done with integrity. We followed the facts where they led. We achieved a sound result.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 



The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Friday, January 21, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thank you, South Bend winter 
Dear South Bend winter, 
Since I am currently spending my final months with you, I would like to put my love and respect for you into words. 
Last year at this time, I was headed to France for a semester. While I was there, it snowed once or twice but never stuck to the ground. Since returning to South Bend last weekend, I’ve real-

Laura
ized that there are so many things I McCrystal forgot about winter 
News 
here in northern 
Editor 
Indiana. 
South Bend winter, there are a few things only you could teach me, and for these I am eternally grateful. 
Thank you for giving me a great rea­son to buy a brand new down coat at an after-Christmas sale over winter break. 
Also, thank you for making me rethink my decision to purchase that coat in white as soon as I remembered how that snow stays white for approximately five minutes before turning to gray or brown sludge. 
Thank you for making Starbucks’ pep­permint hot chocolate, my favorite drink, taste especially delightful. There’s nothing like walking into LaFortune to get a hot chocolate on a day when the wind-chill is 30 degrees below zero. 
Thank you for the valuable reminder that no matter how bad my day is or what kind of mood I am in, sunshine and blue skies are always a reason to smile. After all, it could be several months before the sun peeks out again from behind layers of gray gloom. 
Thank you for teaching me balance. Or, at least, for reminding me I should wear boots with traction and try to improve my balance. Within 24 hours of returning to South Bend last weekend, I wiped out in the street in front of my off-campus house. This was also the first time I began to regret purchasing a white coat. But, on another note, this moment reminded how much fun I had when I got similar bruises playing broomball last semester. 
Thank you for giving me a reason to spend my Saturday afternoons doing absolutely nothing other than sitting on my couch, watching television and remi­niscing about football season. 
Thank you for allowing Notre Dame students to look forward to getting to the beach during spring break. After spending January through March in South Bend, we appreciate tropical cli­mates more than students from any other school. 
Thank you for the threat that even after spring break, winter is probably far from over. Sudden changes from sun to snowstorm are great life lessons and reality checks. 
Thank you for making students think that it’s normal to wear shorts, sun­dresses, flip-flops and t-shirts as soon as the thermometer hits 55 degrees. 
Finally, South Bend winter, I would like to thank you for being ridiculously long. Who wants a short and mild win­ter when sunshine and warm weather also mean graduation and saying good­bye to my days as a Notre Dame stu­dent? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


The rhetoric of political Pygmies 
Yesterday marked the 50th anniversary of President John F. Kennedy’s inauguration as well as the two year mark of President Obama’s inaugural ceremonies. While both presi­dential messages were lofty and uplifting, our political dia­logue today remains more petty and filled with personal greed than when Kennedy entered the presiden­cy. As a World War II veteran, Kennedy was strong on defense like Obama. Kennedy, like Obama, believed in a gov­ernmental role to solve problems and in tax decreases to spur the economy. However, political communications strate­gies changed drastically since the days of Camelot. 
Kennedy’s election over Vice President Richard Nixon was more of a choice for Gary Caruso youthful style over substance, since both men had strikingly similar military and Capitol political service records as well as shared Comments most issue-oriented viewpoints. In fact, when congressional Democrats and Republicans functioned through compromise, Democrats remained the majority for 40 years. Newt Gingrich, while orchestrating the 1994 congres­sional Republican win, strategized that tearing down Congress was his only way to make Republicans a viable choice. Thus, political discourse began evolving into the message of what we oppose rather than what we favor. Ironically, it is Obama’s long-term, steady goal of being a new type of politician — cou­pled with the assassination attempt of Representative Gabrielle Giffords — that may finally break our nation’s nasty rhetorical cycle. 


Look no farther than the new Republican-led House of Representatives to see a current example of focus group-driv­en rhetoric most likely parsed by GOP language guru and poll­ster Frank Luntz. Prior to the Giffords assassination attempt, an economy-weary public reacted more negatively to the term “job-killing” when offered various descriptions of what oppo­nents previously and disapprovingly coined as “Obamacare.” In fact, the official title of H.R. 2 is “Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act.” 
Many automatically attempt to blame both parties as equally engaging in inflammatory tactics. Not true. Republicans could have named their repeal legislation using “to correct,” “to improve” or “to limit” the current healthcare law. President Ronald Reagan supported eight tax increase bills entitled Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Highway Revenue Act of 1982, Interest and Dividend Tax Compliance Act of 1983, Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Acts of 1985 and 1987, Tax Reform Act of 1986, along with the largest tax increase ($160 Billion) in American history to save Social Security simply entitled, “Social Security Amendments of 1983.” 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Such language is more adult-driven, professional and slyly masks its true tax increase nature. But today’s rhetoric is smash-mouth and petty. Paradoxically, the first line describing the Republican legislative bill actually includes last year’s Democratic health care title that in part included education with the parliamentary budget reconciliation process. The Republican bill adopted this week read, “To repeal the job-killing health care law and health care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.” 
The Republican healthcare repeal bill was introduced prior to Giffords’ shooting. So when Giffords was shot, an Arizona blogger summed up our present dumbed-down congressional rhetoric by writing on the Vos Iz Neias site, “Notice how there (in D.C.), people can’t come up with a title that doesn’t include the word ‘kill’ or some other inflammatory violent rhetoric designed to rile up their hate sheep. It speaks volumes about the political discourse and inevitable reaction we saw today.” 
It is no mystery how GOP celebrity Sarah Palin contrived her crosshair images on targeted Democrats, including Giffords, last election cycle to appeal to fellow hunters and NRA sup­porters. This writer does not find malice in her motives, just a clumsy, political naïveté that comes with political inexperi­ence. On the other hand, her insistence on describing the firestorm after the Giffords’ assassination attempt as “blood libel” defies political savvy. However, GOP candidates for decades have depended upon negative rhetorical imagery to attract one-issue voters such as those who are anti-abortion, anti-gay, anti-union and anti-government. 
Following the Iowa Caucus two years ago, Hillary Clinton staff members suggested running more against Bush policy. They proposed saying that we need to “take back” our world standing, our government and our America that once thrived under Bill Clinton’s tenure. Interestingly, Hillary rejected the exact negative rhetoric that propelled Tea Party candidates to victory last year. 
Obama has also remained unfailingly steadfast in his com­mitment to the rhetorical high road. His long-term efforts to extend a hand to Republicans each step of the way and states­manlike demeanor have boosted his approval rating to 53 per­cent this week. Undoing negativity Gingrich ingrained decades ago into our political lexicon requires the Obama marathon approach. One-issue voters who see our political process as dysfunctional should for once expel the negativity and “job­killing” rhetoric disgorged before them. Next year’s election will prove just how large Obama is and how puny his opposi­tion’s rhetoric becomes. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“An adventure is only an inconvenience rightly considered. An inconvenience is an adventure wrongly considered.” 
G.K. Chesterton English author & mystery novelist 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We must never forget that art isnot a form of propaganda; it is aform of truth.” 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Friday, January 21, 2011 page 7 
Re-evaluating politics in rememberance of Christina Taylor Green 
Christina Taylor Green. Until a few days ago, we didn’t know Christina. We weren’t aware of this vibrant nine­year-old’s budding interest in politics. We remained ignorant of her love for swimming, gymnas-
Eileen Flanagan 
tics and baseball. 
and 
We had no idea she delighted in picking Josh Varanelli blackberries. Now, 
Guest Column 
we will never for­get her name. Christina. Taylor. Green. 
Given to us on September 11, 2001 
— she was a fresh soul, unaware of the tumult and turmoil of a place she would so briefly call home. Perhaps it came with the gravity of being born on such a grave occasion, or maybe she had a natural aptitude for the contem­plative, but Christina possessed an uncanny wisdom for her novel nine years. She interpreted the events of 9/11 not as a doomed end, but as an opportunity to transcend the wicked­ness of the moment — that under such duress and tragedy, courage takes root, greatness becomes possible. 
Christina’s life ended in an irrational fit of violence. She had spunk, intelli­gence and vision — so much potential whisked away with a whiz of metal. If she would have lived, we are sure she would have done great things for the world. But she is gone. And we endure. In a life taken so senselessly, is it pos­sible to derive meaning? 

When someone dies, what’s truly important is brought sharply into focus. Things that once seemed para­mount become inconsequential, our mundane daily strife now seems laugh­able and the prism through which we view the world widens. Death causes us to reflect and re-evaluate. Death clarifies life. 
Christina Taylor Green’s death brings great clarity and perspective to American political life. The things we once considered imperative no longer matter. The words we so carelessly slung at each other, the ceaseless bick­ering, and the aggrandized sense of self seem petty, immature and selfish. These actions absolutely did not cause the gunman to fire those shots; howev­er, it should not prevent us from exam­ining our political consciences. Too often we shout, bludgeon and 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Truth about gender issues 
Dear Mr. Easley, 

Your column, “Liberated Woman’s Theology” (Jan. 20) in Thursday’s Observer does a better job of showcasing your ignorance of gender studies and feminism than making a strong argument for stay-at-home motherhood. For one thing, feminists in general have never thought being an involved and devoted parent is a bad thing. This is why many (I’d suggest, almost all) feminists think men (at least, most of the ones with children) should be involved and devoted parents — not just breadwinners, but real fathers. 
Feminists have, of course, criticized stay-at-home motherhood. Notably, you don’t take up any of these criticisms. For one, the classic, Betty Friedan-era cri­tique of stay-at-home motherhood was more about the forced exclusion of women from the trades and professions than motherhood per se. It’s one thing to choose to become a stay-at-home parent. It’s quite another to be told your whole life — or, shortly after your husband returns from WWII — that it’s the only thing you’re good for. By ignoring this critique, you mischaracterize your femi­nist interlocutors. For another, a stay-at-home parent, by definition, is economi­cally dependent on her or his partner. This is fine so long as the family stays together. But divorce leads many former-stay-at-home mothers years behind in their careers and job experience. In part for this reason, about 30 percent of families headed by unmarried women are below the poverty line (US Census data). By neglecting this criticism — and, indeed, claiming that the consequences of divorce are not significant — you reveal your ignorance of well-established economic facts. 
Fortunately, there is hope for you — and anyone else who’s interested in but ignorant of gender issues. I’m co-teaching Introduction to Gender Studies this semester, and we still have open seats. We’d be more than happy to have you join us. 
Dan Hicks 

graduate student Philosophy and Gender Studies Jan. 20 

generalize. We pass judgments about people, fellow Americans, we know nothing about. 
That is not to say we should never disagree. We are America. We are a government composed by the greatest minds of the time, who heartily dis­agreed about the method and manner our government should be run. Though the Founding Fathers were not one conglomerate group, they agreed on this: the importance of this nation transcended the importance of their own egos. For the sake of Christina and this country, we must strive to emulate their example. Will we choose the politics of difficulty — of honest discussion, of setting aside ego, of self­lessness? Or will we fall victim to the ever enticing and easy politics of fear? 
We desperately hope Christina was right. We hope that through great tragedy comes great strength, great purpose, great meaning. We hope that tragedy of Tucson inspires the courage to put aside our egos and compromise, the reason to work towards a common good and the wisdom to realize this country is bigger than petty partisan bickering. 
We cannot change Washington instantaneously, we cannot force peo­ple to adopt our mentality; however, how we choose to act at this specific juncture in time is entirely within our realm of control. We challenge you to go to lunch with someone you disagree with, politically or otherwise (present this article as a token of goodwill if you have to). We challenge you to find out what’s important to them, to listen, to re-evaluate, to be great. 
Christina Taylor Green entered the world on a day of wickedness, let the day she left be one to inspire transcen­dence. 
Eileen Flanagan is a senior and the Co-President of the Notre Dame College Democrats Committee. She can be reached at Eileen.E.Flanagan.42@nd.edu 
Josh Varanelli is a senior and the President of the Notre Dame College Republicans Committee. He can be reached at Joshua.C.Varanelli.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Those pesky, liberated women 
Mr. Easley, I’ll speak for all gender studies majors when I say, “Noted.” Here’s to hoping no one spent as much time actually debating your col­
umn, “Liberated Theology” (Jan. 20), as you spent writing it. 
Robyn Grant 
senior 
off campus Jan.20 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene
page 8 Friday, January 21, 2011 


“Black Swan” opens with a fragile ballerina, Nina Sayers (Natalie Portman), dancing the prologue of “Swan Lake” in the middle of a dimly lit stage as a lone violin plays eerily in the background. The music is as vulnerable as the ballerina and they exist harmoniously. Meanwhile, a figure stands in 
the near background, breathing 
heavily and watching intently. For a 
few moments, all is seemingly calm 
yet wrought with a brooding feeling, 
Scene Writer until the figure, a monstrous crea­
ture, rushes the ballerina, shattering the calm and causing both her and the music to descend into madness. 
That is, in essence, the journey in Darren Aronofsky’s adaptation of the classic ballet, “Swan Lake,” a full-on descent into madness. He blends the same kind of restraint and great trust in his lead that enabled Mickey Rourke to mount a triumphant comeback in “The Wrestler.” With a penchant for flare and technicality, Aronofsky allows Portman to fall deeply into character and give a mesmeriz­ing performance. 
What enables Portman to operate so beautifully is that she portrays the progression of her character with exact emotional precision. 
As a ballerina vying for the lead in “Swan Lake,” she approaches her naïve, focused and socially deprived self with an intensity that seems pure — white swan-like. Juxtaposed with her counterpart during their night out on the town, Lily (Mila Kunis, in a role that might open some doors for her as a serious actress), she comes off almost too controlled, just like her dancing, which is all technical and prided on “perfection” as she sees it. Lily, on the other hand, is everything the black swan should be — imprecise, sexual and wicked. 
It’s during those moments when the two rivals cross that Portman for the first time gives herself unto a different self, if you will. That alternate self is the black swan. Although the true transformation and all the lurid scenes that arrive with it don’t actually come until later, there’s a noticeable shift in Portman’s performance during the scene with Lily. At some point between storming out of a club not knowing what just happened and her ensuing psycho-sexual fantasy, Portman’s innocence and purity are abandoned and she is no longer the “sweet girl” her mother wishes she be. 
Much like in “The Wrestler,” Aronofsky takes a step back at this point, shines a light on his lead, and allows his actor to get swept up in his fever hallucination of a film. Just like in the beginning, Portman stands center stage for the rest of the way through, rarely ever leaving the frame as every moment draws her nearer to her emotional and mental col­lapse and the pure deliriousness that follows. 
Some of the best performances come when actors or actresses give themselves unto their director’s uncompro­mising vision. Charlotte Gainsbourg gave arguably the best performance of any actor last year in “Antichrist,” which won her the Best Actress award at the Cannes Film Festival, because she allowed director Lars von Trier to instill in her the same state of mental anguish that he reportedly felt during filming. Likewise, David Lynch has always been able to get the best out of his female leads because he bewilders them, causing them to feel the same kind of fear towards the role and the process that he wants them to show as their characters come mentally undone before our eyes. 
In the case of “Black Swan,” Portman neither gives her­self unto Aronofsky nor does he try to push his vision or lofty ambitions on her. Instead, he operates almost like that monster creeping in the background at the film’s open, panting, while holding a shaking camera as the object of his eyes, Portman, feels deathly afraid by his presence. 
“Black Swan” isn’t necessarily anchored by Portman’s disarming performance but is instead made all the more visceral because she is so unnerving as such a dynamic role. In this year’s best performance bar none, Portman’s embodies the fragility of the white swan and allows fear and dread wash over her as she unravels, making the film genuinely horrifying. 
Shane Steinberg 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

The Observer 


Scene
Friday, January 21, 2011 page 9 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 21, 2011 
NFL 

Rodgers looks to create legacy 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. — On the list of Aaron Rodgers’ accomplish­ments in three seasons as the Green Bay Packers‘ starting quarterback, one stands out as being something that really did-n’t seem possible when he first took over as the starter. 
He made Brett Favre an after­thought in Green Bay. 
Going into Sunday’s NFC championship game against the Bears in Chicago, Rodgers is the undisputed face of the Packers, and his success in the playoffs is winning over almost anyone who still had doubts about his place among the NFL’s elite quarter­backs. 
“I think he’s definitely the quarterback we all hoped he would become,” coach Mike McCarthy said. “He was a young talented quarterback, had a very bright future, and now we’re in year three of his development and he’s definitely developed into a special player. He does it the right way. He’ll break them down physically, mentally. He’s in a great rhythm right now.” 
He certainly made a believer out of veteran Packers wide receiver Donald Driver. 
“I love him,” Driver said. “I don’t know if you can put words to it but he’s playing like one of the best quarterbacks in the game, if not the best.” 
Rodgers might not have made the Pro Bowl this season, but there’s no shortage of praise coming his way after a dominant performance in last Saturday’s playoff rout of Atlanta. Rodgers has been particularly sharp since he sustained his second concussion of the season and sat out the Packers’ Dec. 19 loss at New England. 
Bears linebacker Lance Briggs said he isn’t bothered by all the national attention on Rodgers. 
“No, that’s all it is, it’s a sign of respect for what the Packers and Aaron Rodgers have been able to do,” Briggs said. “They have been doing a lot of that this whole year. Credit is due.” 
Rodgers appreciates the praise from fellow players, fans and pundits, but doesn’t think he deserves it—not yet. 
“We have to put some more hardware around here,” Rodgers said. 
It once seemed as if Rodgers would never escape comparisons with Favre. But with No. 4 now retired—perhaps even for good this time—Rodgers finally is free. 
Well, mostly. 
Favre interjected himself into the national conversation about the Bears-Packers rivalry this week, telling ESPN in an e-mail that Rodgers is “the best” quar­terback remaining in the playoffs and paying compliments to the Packers’ receivers and defense. 


“I think they will win it all! I hope they do, if you are wonder­ing,” Favre said in his e-mail to the network. 
Some fans snickered through­out Wisconsin. No, they really weren’t wondering. 
When asked about Favre’s comment, Rodgers’ response was upbeat but brief. 
“Any time I’m getting a com­ment like that from somebody who’s had a ton of success in the NFL, it’s quite an honor,” Rodgers said. 
And that’s about the most Rodgers and the Packers have said about their former quarter­back in recent weeks. 
With the Packers still scram­bling to make the playoffs in December, somebody asked Rodgers whether his apprentice­ship under Favre helped or hurt his career. 
“I’ll be honest with you, man, I’ve answered that question a gazillion times,” Rodgers said then. “So I don’t really want to go back into that. Especially not this week.” 
And after the Packers beat the Vikings at the Metrodome in November, McCarthy was asked whether his team might finally be rid of the Favre-driven circus. 
“I’m rid of it; you need to get rid of it,” McCarthy said at the time. 
Rodgers hit the toughest stretch of his season a few weeks after that Vikings game, sustain­ing his second concussion of the season against Detroit and sit­ting out against New England. Rodgers said he was proud of the way backup Matt Flynn played against the Patriots, but missed playing himself. 
“When you go from being a backup for three years to the starter, you just relish those opportunities,” Rodgers said. “And when it gets kind of taken away from you, it’s just really tough to not be able to get back in the game.” 
Rodgers has been hotter than ever since returning, leading the Packers to back-to-back wins to make the playoffs. His standout play has continued in the post­season. 
“Aaron is a very consistent player and it probably stems from his personality,” McCarthy said. “He is clearly one of the most consistent quarterbacks that I have had the opportunity to work with. He is the same person every day. He doesn’t swing with the highs and lows of how the season is going or how our practice is going, and I think it really carries over to the play­ing field.” 
NFL 


Revis and Jets defense can’t wait for Steelers 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Darrelle Revis used to wonder if something like this would even be possible. 
He’s considered by many to be the best shutdown cornerback in the NFL and has helped lead the New York Jets to the AFC champi­onship game for the second straight season. 
It’s a long way from those anx­ious days in Aliquippa, a city in metropolitan Pittsburgh where big dreams just help you get by. 
“It’s a tough town,” Revis said Wednesday. “It makes you grow up fast. There’s a lot of negativity there.” 
And, he saw plenty of it. Crimes, friends in trouble and people down on their luck. It was tough to stay focused. 
“The one thing I did growing up is lean on the people doing posi­tive things: Ty Law and my uncle, Sean Gilbert,” Revis recalled. “Mike Ditka’s from there. I remember just seeing billboards of him from our hometown and wanting to make it out of there.” 
Well, he certainly succeeded. He was a star at the University of Pittsburgh, became a first-round pick of the Jets in 1997, and is headed for his third straight Pro Bowl. That is, if he’s not playing in the Super Bowl in a few weeks. 
First, he’s coming back home— and hoping to leave with an AFC title and a huge win over the Steelers on Sunday night. 
“It means a lot to me,” Revis said. “Jason Taylor is from there, too. We talk about it all the time. We played them a couple of weeks ago, and we were talking about just getting a win from where we’re from, and in front of our families and close friends. It’s the same situation. It’s the AFC championship game, but also it’s more personal to me and Jason Taylor.” 
It was only a few months ago that Revis was a training-camp holdout with his complicated con­tract situation a lead story line on HBO’s “Hard Knocks.” He eventu­ally signed a new deal, reported to the team and was back in the starting secondary for the regu­lar-season opener. 
The lack of preparation meant he wasn’t close to being the type of player he was last season, though, when he shut down star wide receivers week after week. Then came a strained left ham­string that sidelined him for two games. 
“Coming into the season, we all knew it was going to be a set­back,” Revis said. “The coaches knew, (general manager) Mike Tannenbaum and those guys knew because I hadn’t been in football mode. I was trying to work out as much as I can and do what I needed to do to prepare myself, but it’s totally different when you’re not in training camp.” 
Revis sets personal goals before each season and writes them down on a sheet of paper. They serve as a constant reminder for how good he knows he can be— and expects to be. 
“Didn’t reach a lot of them this year,” Revis acknowledged. “But one of those goals is where we’re at right now, getting to this place we’re at, winning this game and going to the Super Bowl. I think that’s just a team goal as well for us, just getting here. Everybody’s mindset is just getting to the Super Bowl and winning.” 
Revis has been a major factor in the Jets’ run. The health concerns are no longer an issue, and the contract situation is a distant memory. Revis has been at his best the last several weeks, shut­ting down Pittsburgh’s Hines Ward and Indianapolis’ Reggie Wayne, and teaming with Antonio Cromartie to take away Tom Brady’s favorite weapons last Sunday night. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  Join/start weekly pen-and-paper  
FOR RENT  RENTAL:  WANTED  RPG / snacky potluck group Contact me if you're looking for new  PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
House for rent for  player or send me the systems and  Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  
graduation/JPW/weddings,football,  settings you'd want to play.  many resources in place to assist  
Walk to Campus Student Housing.  etc.  I can GM if necessary, but don't  If you or someone you care about  you.  
STRAT-O-MATIC  have to.  has been sexually assaulted, we  
1, 2, and 3 bedrooms from $465  Perfect location-right next to the  I'm leaning toward systems that are  can help.  If you or someone you love needs  
per bed. Swimming Pool, Fitness  new Eddy Street Commons  baseball league  cheap to start up -- dnd 3.5,  confidential support or assistance,  
Center, Tanning Beds.  GURPS, or Ars Magica, but am  For more information, visit Notre  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  
Walk to everything-safe family ori­ looking for managers.  flexible.  Dames website:  
Clover Village and Clover Ridge.  ented street.  Open to any level of roleplaying,  For more information, visit ND's  
Call 574-271-0185  from hack 'n' slash on up -- we  http://csap.nd.edu  website at: http://pregnancysup­ 
574.272.8124 www.colvervillagea- Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for  could even play Munchkin.  port@nd.edu  
partments.com  additional info and photos  nd.rpg.snax@gmail.com  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Friday, January 21, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
GOLF 




Love chosen as U.S. captain 
Associated Press 
MEDINAH, Ill. — Davis Love III had to share his big day with Chicago’s beloved Bears. 
If he leads the Americans to the Ryder Cup in the fall of 2012, he’ll have the whole town to himself. 
An emotional and enthusiastic Love was introduced Thursday as the next U.S. captain of the Ryder Cup, then spent the next few hours being feted across Chicago. He was made an hon­orary member at Medinah Country Club, where the 2012 matches will be played, got a miniature replica of the Stanley Cup, and hobnobbed with Chicago’s sports royalty: Scottie Pippen, Dan Hampton and Ernie Banks. 
“Good luck to you,” Pippen, who teamed with Michael Jordan to win six NBA titles with the Bulls, told Love at an after­noon reception. “I’m looking for­ward to popping some cham­pagne with you.” 
All five of Chicago’s pro teams presented Love with personal­ized jerseys, and the White Sox threw in a ball from the 2005 World Series. Love also was to be a guest of the Bulls at their game against the Dallas Mavericks later Thursday night. 




“The whole world is going to be watching what we do here in Chicago,” Love said. “When we get here, when the European team gets here, we’re going to be at least a point ahead because we’re going to have the Chicago fans, the Chicago energy.” 
The daylong celebration of Love’s appointment wraps up a week that put the Ryder Cup in the news some 18 months before the next shot is struck. Europe, which won the gold trophy in Wales last October, appointed two-time Masters champion Jose Maria Olazabal as its captain Tuesday. 
Love’s appointment was hardly a secret, and it was clear he’s already working on a plan to reverse the Americans’ recent Ryder Cup woes. Europe has won six of the last eight matchups. 
Love has started talking with PGA and Medinah officials about course setup. He’s thought about the qualities he wants in his vice captains and who might be suit­ed for those jobs. At dinner Wednesday night, he and wife Robin spent part of the time looking at the ballrooms and imagining how they could be configured for team meeting rooms. 
As for those disastrous rain-suits that leaked, causing a dis­traction before the Americans even teed off in Wales, Love pledged that a big part of his job will be making sure his players feel as comfortable and prepared as possible. 
“I’m a players’ captain,” he said earlier in the day. “I’ll try to get them what they need to be successful. I’m not going to tell the best players in the world how to play golf. I’m not going to read their putts. I’m going to stay out of their way and let them show their talents. I think a good leader knows he’s got a great team and just gets them pre­pared and let’s them go play.” 

Love, a 20-time winner on the PGA Tour, played on six Ryder Cup teams. His first three match­es, with Tom Kite as his partner, were against Olazabal and Seve Ballesteros, the “Spanish Armada” that formed one of the most daunting teams in Ryder Cup history. Love won that first match, but never beat Olazabal again. They never played each other in singles. 
Olazabal won his second green jacket in 1999, and while his duel that day was with Greg Norman, the Spaniard held off a late charge by Love, who was the runner-up. 
Love recalled that Olazabal brought a special Spanish wine to serve at the Masters’ Champions Dinner that next year, and he gave Love the left­over bottles. 
“I’ll always remember his gen­erosity,” said Love, who said he has not spoken to Olazabal this week. “He’s always been a good friend. It’ll be a tough competi­tion. On Thursday we’ll be friends, and Sunday night we’ll still be friends.” 
Love said he would consider playing if he earned his way on the team, although a U.S. cap­tain has never qualified for the team in recent decades. Love last qualified for the team in 2004, when Europe routed the Americans at Oakland Hills. 
NBA 


Anthony trade talks still in air despite Nets 

Associated Press 
DENVER — Carmelo Anthony was hammered by J.R. Smith during a spirited 5 on 5 scrim­mage at practice on Thursday. When he stepped to the line, his Denver Nuggets teammates began booing and jeering and scoffing the All-Star forward — just like the home crowd has been doing lately. 
“You’re a bum, Carmelo!” Smith taunted as Anthony laughed and calmly swished all three free throws. 
Anthony was booed during a postgame TV interview at the Pepsi Center Wednesday night following his 35-point perform­ance in Denver’s 112-107 win over Oklahoma City, which came hours after the New York Nets ended trade talks for the Nuggets star. 
That’s not a wise move by the frustrated fans, suggested Kobe Bryant, whose Los Angeles Lakers visit the Nuggets on Friday night. He suggested that if Anthony were at all torn about leaving Denver or staying put, the catcalls might just push him over the edge and on his way. 
Bryant said he’s only been booed at home once in his 15 years with the Lakers and that was in the 2007-08 opener after saying during that offseason that he wanted to be traded. He said the fans came around when they saw him playing hard. 
Anthony’s been playing hard, too, but the drama has been play­ing out since last summer, when Anthony declined to sign a three-year, $65 million extension with the Nuggets. 
Bryant played with Anthony at the 2008 Olympics and said his friend doesn’t necessarily want the bright lights of Broadway but just a shot at a title. 
“It has nothing to do with a big­ger market,” Bryant said. “It’s about winning. If you want to keep a player here, make the right decisions, make the right choices, personnel. Get a team around a guy that will help you win and there will be no prob­lems. If Denver will make the right decisions, bring in the right personnel, then he’ll stick around. 
“It’s not rocket science.” 
What appears to be rocket sci­ence, though, is putting together a trade that will satisfy all parties, especially Anthony, who never gave the Nets nor Nuggets an indication one way or the other whether he’d sign his extension to facilitate a trade to New Jersey. 
Denver native Chauncey Billups, who’s been dragged into the Anthony trade talks, said he understands why Nuggets fans are booing Anthony but sympa­thizes with his teammate. 
“Melo’s like a little brother to me, so I hate him going through that,” he said. 
Anthony, who didn’t stop to speak with reporters after prac­tice Thursday, has said the boos don’t bother him or affect his game, suggesting he’ll always have his haters one way or the other. 
The jeers in Denver are starting to drown out the cheers for the superstar who’s led the Nuggets to seven straight playoff berths but has left the extension without his signature, leading general manager Masai Ujiri and team president Josh Kroenke to seek a trading partner so they don’t lose him to free agency this summer without any getting anything in return. 
Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov canceled his flight to Denver to meet face-to-face Thursday with Anthony and told the team on Wednesday to end trade talks with the Nuggets, saying he was unhappy with how it played out in public, that it took too long, got too expensive and cost his team games. 
Ujiri said Wednesday night he’s in discussions with “plenty of teams” about Anthony and that he held no animosity toward the Nets for pulling the plug on a pro­posed trade that would have net­ted the Nuggets a couple of first-round picks and rookie power forward Derrick Favors. 
With the Nets out of the picture, at least for now, the Knicks are expected to get back into the mix with other possibilities including the Bulls, Mavericks and Rockets. 
The Nuggets might have to set­tle for much less from a team that sees Anthony as a “rent-a-player” for a shot at a championship before losing him as a free agent in a few months. 
The Knicks haven’t had enough to offer the Nuggets, but they appear to be the one team that could lure Anthony into signing his extension to facilitate a trade. 
Anthony was born in Brooklyn and has said he’d love to play in the Big Apple, so with the Nets done talking, the Knicks can expect a bigger wave of Melo chatter. 
“We’ve got to make sure we stay focused and be prepared. We can’t let affect us,” Knicks star Amare Stoudemire said. “We’ve got to make sure we still play hard every night.” 
Knicks coach Mike D’Antoni was surprised to hear that Prokhorov pulled out of his pur­suit of Anthony, but he said Wednesday night he didn’t think it affects his team. And he said that should some of his players’ names get bandied about, he would hope it wouldn’t distract them. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 21, 2011 
MEN’S TRACK AND  IELD 



Irish to host Notre Dame Invitational 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will try to post fast times and strong individ­ual performances when it hosts the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday. 
As an early season meet, the Irish have an opportunity to polish their times before the Big East championships, which are now less than a month away. The invitational will also be an early test for the team, as it will feature solid competi­tion in Michigan State, DePaul and Western Michigan. 
“This weekend is important because it is a great opportuni­ty to get a lot of people quali­fied for the Big East meet,” graduate student Jack Howard said. “It is also a good tune-up before we head into the meat of our schedule.” 
The team is already off to a great start this year, having notched several individual and relay wins at both of its open­ing meets. 
“So far, we have had a lot of great performances in all three phases — running, jumping and throws,” Howard said. “We have a ton of depth and a lot of strong returners from last year, plus we have some new faces who are really step­ping up, so it is pretty excit­ing,” 
In particular, one of those great performances was turned in by heptathlete Justin Schneider. At last weekend’s Bob Eubanks Open, Schneider won six of seven heptathlon events and scored 5,497 points, breaking his own per­sonal record and earning Big East Male Field Athlete of the Week honors in the process. 
With scores like that, Schneider and the Irish should be primed for another run at a conference title. Notre Dame took home both the indoors and outdoors championships last year. 
“Our goal is just to keep improving so that we’re run­ning our best come the confer­ence meet and beyond,” Howard said. 
The Invitational will take place Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. Field events will kick off at 10 a.m., while run­ning events will begin at noon. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



Bednarski 
continued from page 16 
season on both the men’s and women’s sides. Bednarski attrib­uted the top rankings to the suc­cess his squad experienced throughout the fall season. 
“We had several extremely good results, which is probably why coaches who voted for rank­ings put us number one on both sides in the preliminary poll,” Bednarski said. “It gives us hope that we should be fighting for medals during this coming sea­son.” 
The duals kicks off a stretch of three consecutive weekends of dual meets across the country for the Irish, who have plenty of time to adjust to the loss of Meinhardt ahead of the conference champi­onships in early March. After a disappointing third place finish in last year’s national champi­onships, the Irish look to prove their lofty early season ranking is warranted. 
“Our goal is to prepare to be in the top four, and during the final days just get to the highest place possible in the circumstances,” Bednarski said. “I’m optimistic because of the kids’ talent and hard work, and we’re excited to see how this season will go.” 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
MLB 



Leyland knows job not guaranteed after season 

Associated Press 
DETROIT — Tigers manager Jim Leyland is blunt as he assesses the situation he and his boss, general manager Dave Dombrowski, face entering the final years of their contracts. 
“My tail’s on the line, Dave’s is on the line,” Leyland said Thursday at Comerica Park as the team started its winter tour across the state, a few weeks before spring training. “We all know that.” 
Leyland’s deal was extended by two years during the 2009 season, giving him at least one more shot of helping owner Mike Ilitch hoist World Series hardware. 
“I came here to give Mr. (Mike) Ilitch a world champi­onship trophy,” Leyland said, entering his sixth season as the Tigers’ manager. “That’s what I’m going to continue to try do as long as I’m the manager. If it got to the point where they don’t want me to be the manag­er anymore, then so be it, that’s their business. 
“If somebody thinks that I’m going to be intimidated by the fact that this is the last year, I’ve got all kind of energy, I feel good. I’m really looking for­ward to it. That’s not going to be a topic.” 
It certainly won’t be one that Dombrowski is going to fuel with candor. 
Dombrowski was rewarded in 2006 with a four-year exten­sion that runs through 2011 after turning around the fran­chise in his first five seasons in charge. 

Friday, January 21, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
SMC BASKETBALL 



Ronan, Saint Mary’s take down Hornets 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Junior guard Maggie Ronan scored 18 of her 20 points in the first half as Saint Mary’s defeat­ed Kalamazoo 90-59 on Thursday night. 
After a slow start by both teams and multiple turnovers, the Belles (12-5, 5-3 MIAA) jumped out to a 22-12 lead with 
11:25 remaining in the first half. Missed layups and offensive opportunities allowed the Hornets (2-14. 1-7) to close the gap to 26-25 with 7:02 remain­ing in the half, but Saint Mary’s managed to take a 44-34 lead into the locker room at halftime. 
Belles coach Jennifer Henley said she was satisfied with her team’s first half performance, but acknowledged that her team needed to make adjustments in the second half. 
“We talked about a lot of things at halftime,” Henley said. “I think the thing we talked about the most was defensively, taking a better stand against what they were doing with us and offensively, communicating more with each other.” 
The Belles did just that as they scored the first six points of the second half to increase their lead to 16. Junior forward Kelley Murphy scored 14 points in the second half, including six during a five minute stretch in which the Belles outscored Kalamazoo 13-0. 
“I think we had moments of very good defense,” Henley said. “I think we countered [our mis­takes] a little bit with getting out and getting our transition game going and getting some points offensively.” 
The play of senior captain Liz Wade at point guard was anoth­er strong point for the Belles. Wade finished with six assists and created many scoring opportunities on the offensive end. 
“Liz Wade did a good job for us in getting some early steals and making things happen in transition,” Henley said. “She’s a four year point guard, and she’s one of our captains and she gets things going for us.” 
Henley still feels that her team needs to improve other aspects of its game. 
“I think we need to cut down on unforced turnovers,” she said. “We made some silly mis­takes in our transition game, and we need to do a better job of boxing out and getting rebounds and eliminating second chance points that we give up teams. … We need to do the little things as we move forward to the second round of our conference play.” 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 



ND to open up home slate 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish return home this week, competing for the first time on Notre Dame’s campus since early December. 
The Irish welcome Michigan State, DePaul and Western Michigan to this weekend’s indoor Notre Dame Invitational with the hope of building upon last week­end’s performance in the Bob Eubanks Open at Grand Valley State. 
Though the Irish brought limited numbers to last weekend’s compe­tition, they still posted several top performances, as sophomore Rebecca Tracy won the 800-meter run with a time of 2:09.05, and senior Rudy Atang came in second in the shotput with a distance of 
14.26 meters. 
This weekend will be the first time since the Blue and Gold Meet on Dec. 3 that the full Irish squad will be participating. 
“We had a meet in December, just to kind of figure out where we’re at, and then we had basical­ly a month off,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. “The Christmas vacation was a week longer this year. Most people like that, but I think it kind of hurt you because it took away a week of training and competing.” 
As this weekend is only the sec­ond competition of the season for most of the team, Connelly knows just how important a test this Saturday will be. 

“Saturday is kind of like ‘OK, where are we at?’” he said. “It’s just a step to kind of see where we’re at and how far we have to go before the conference meet, which is a month from now.” 
The Irish are expected to rely on a broad range of players to rack up top honors this weekend. Three senior middle-distance runners are expected to be key contribu­tors in Kelly Langhans, Natalie Johnson and Abby Higgins. 
Connelly realizes a deep and versatile squad is necessary to have a successful team, especially in conference competition. 
“If you’re going to have a good track team, you have to have a bunch of kids covering a lot of dif­ferent bases,” he said. 
Connelly said he believes in the importance of indoor track. Rather than a simple preparation for the outdoor campaign, he also said it is vital to win indoors in January, February and early March, not just the spring. 
“It’s track. You don’t say we take indoors more seriously than out­doors, or vice versa,” Connelly said. “The Big East holds a cham­pionship for both indoors and out­doors, so obviously we’ve got an obligation to be at our best for both.” 
The Irish begin their 2011 home schedule at 10 a.m. Saturday in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 21, 2011 

Buckeyes 
continued from page 16 
It’s definitely a big series for us.” 
The No. 8 Irish (15-8-3, 12-5­1-1 CCHA) have been a pro­gram on the upswing since the Buckeyes swept them out of the CCHA playoffs last March. A host of freshmen and the spec­tacular play of the team’s four seniors have led the team to notch 38 points in the CCHA standings — one point ahead of Michigan for the top spot in the conference. 
The Buckeyes (12-9-2, 7-7-2­2 CCHA) rank seventh in the conference, but are riding a stretch of strong play heading into the series with the Irish. The team defeated Miami of Ohio twice during a recent home series. Jackson said the Buckeyes pose a strong test despite their middling position in the standings. 
“They’re one of the one of the hottest teams in our confer­ence,” Jackson said. “They’re going to be a formidable oppo­nent for everybody in the last part of the season. Knocking off Miami twice is pretty impres­sive.” 
The Buckeyes feature a deep and experienced group of for­wards that have been putting up huge statistics all season. John Albert, who averages more than a point per game, and senior forward Sergio Somma have been leading the scoring attack for Ohio State and pose a challenge for Jackson’s defense. 
“[Ohio State coach Mark Osiecki has] got his team play­ing well now and playing the way he wants them to play,” Jackson said. “It certainly looks like they’ve bought in. They play a pressure system. They’re a very aggressive team.” 
Senior captain and defense-man Joe Lavin said he believed the team is ready to counter Ohio State’s experienced offense. 
“I think we’re pretty excited and pretty set with what we need to do against Ohio State,” he said. “I think we just need to be prepared for those guys — a lot of their seniors are having good years.” 
The teams will face off in a two-game series with the first game beginning Friday night at 
7:05 p.m., and the second tak­ing place on Saturday at the same time. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Welsh 
continued from page 16 
But Welsh said he was confi­dent in his group of diver’s ability to handle the competition. 
“Our divers are a strong group led by three experienced sen­iors,” Welsh said. 
The Spartans field a strong slew of opponents for the Irish on the swimming side of the meet as well. 
“In every event, the fastest Michigan State swimmer is very strong,” Welsh said. “We expect a very tough meet.” 
Welsh also added that the team’s preparation has been a “normal week of practice for swimming and lifting” for the potentially grueling meet. 
Friday’s match is the second-to-last meet before the Big East schedule kicks off. 
“We are always looking for signs of improvement,” Welsh said. “That will be our primary focus this week also.” 
Last week, the Irish took down Northwestern and Cleveland State. Welsh was pleased with his team’s performance. 
“Our team raced very well,” Welsh said. “We are eager to build on that high level of per­formance.” 
The meet begins at 5 p.m. in East Lansing, Mich. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 



Freshmen 
continued from page 16 
men to step up,” junior Kristy Frilling said. “Every match is impor­tant, and we have a tough schedule and we travel a lot, so we have to make sure we’re all really ready to compete.” 
Part of the No. 1 doubles team in the NCAA two years running, Frilling is returning with her third doubles partner in three years — fellow junior Shannon Mathews. 
“It’s definitely been a challenge because a new partner means a whole new game style,” Frilling said, “So far it’s worked out pretty well, and I think me and Shannon will really work well together.” 
Mathews was a part of the team’s No. 2 doubles team last year, and Louderback has high hopes for her success with Frilling as a partner. 
Even with the number of return­ing players, Louderback knows that he will have to amend his coaching style slightly this season in order to break in the new players. 
“This year is going to be a little dif­ferent because when we have two freshmen into the lineup, we’ll have to adjust more when we find out how those freshmen do in duel matches,” Louderback said. 
In addition to the team’s success, Frilling has her own personal goals. 
“I want to stay at the top of the rankings in both singles and dou­bles,” Frilling said. “For my singles. I want go out and win all of my matches and qualify for the individ­ual NCAAs and the doubles tourna­ment.” 


Frilling is hoping that success this season will help her in her quest to eventually gain professional status. 
“I’m going to try to play some tournaments this summer to try to establish a professional ranking, and after I graduate I’m gong to try to go on tour for a while and see how that goes,” Frilling said. 
For now, Frilling is just focusing on leading her team to an NCAA tournament title. 
“Every season is new no matter what, so you can’t go in thinking that rankings matter,” Frilling said. “You still have to perform the best you can because the results will speak for themselves.” 
The Irish hit the courts on Saturday at Illinois at 1 p.m. 
Contact Katherine Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 


Calvin next on MIAA lineup for Saint Mary’s 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
The Belles return from a week of training in Florida with a tough matchup against six -time defending MIAA Champion Calvin College. In what will be Saint Mary ’s final meet of the season, the squad is set to encounter a familiar opponent. 
In early December, Saint Mary’s competed at Calvin in a combination Division I, II and III Winter Invitational. The Belles finished the meet in ninth with a particularly strong performance from junior Audrey Dalrymple, who earned a spot in the 200-yard breaststroke final. Tomorrow ’s adversary, Calvin, took second in that meet. 
In the final meet before the break, Saint Mary’s fell just short of Olivet in a short dual meet. The effort was high­lighted by the individual per­formances of Dalrymple, along with sophomores Ellie Watson and Katie Griffin and junior Megan Price. The four swimmers achieved six indi­vidual wins, bright spots in the tough 107-96 loss. 
Though the Olivet meet brought the Belles to 0-2 in dual meets for the season, they will try to pick up wins in three upcoming matches against Calvin, Albion and Hope. 
Saint Mary ’s will host Calvin in its final home meet of the year tomorrow at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 6 p.m. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 

Friday, January 21, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ORNOH  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TEMPY  

 
 
 
 
 

WELLOB  

 
 
 
 
 
 

SNORPI  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TRIPE SWASH SOCKET AGHAST Yesterday’s 
Answer: When they found out workout fees were increased, it — WAS A“STRETCH” 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, January 21, 2011 page 16 
HOCKEY 

Seeking vengeance 
Irish look to knock off Buckeyes in Columbus 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame returns to the place where its 2009-10 cam­paign came to a bitter end when it travels to Columbus, Ohio, this weekend to take on Ohio State. 
Though a large portion of the Irish roster is made up of freshmen, the more experi­enced players on Irish coach Jeff Jackson’s squad have not forgotten the disappointing sweep at the hands of Ohio State in the first round of the CCHA playoffs, including an 8­1 blowout in the final game. 
“You can’t forget that — that’s the team that knocked us out last year,” senior wing Calle Ridderwall said. “They ended our season, which is something I’ve hoped a lot of guys who were here last year have in the back of their heads. 
YUE WU/The Observer 

Senior left wing Calle Ridderwall chases down the puck against Michigan State Nov. 19 in the see BUCKEYES/page 14 Joyce Center. The Irish travel to Ohio State this weekend. 

MEN’S SWIMMING 
Michigan State next for Irish 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame looks to return the favor to the Spartans in East Lansing, Mich., on Friday after Michigan State handed the squad a loss in a head-to-head match up last season. 
The Irish fell to the Spartans 121-179 a year ago. In the all-time series, however, the Irish lead 5-3. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh described this year’s Spartan squad as “one of their best in recent years.” 
In addition to the daunting task of beating a strong Michigan State team, the team will have to deal with the extra stress of competing on a day of classes. 
“An away meet on a school day is especially challenging,” Welsh said. “Diving is especially chal­lenging. Expect diving to be a sig­nificant factor in the outcome of the meet.” 
see WELSH/page 14 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish to open spring season against Virginia, William & Mary 
er NCAA tournament. had two-and-a-half months off Now that the fall season is cocky. If any team can do that,
By ANDREW OWENS 

“Our team came back fit and from match play like most over and the spring season is we can. Hopefully we will be
Sports Writer 

in-shape,” Sachire said. teams have. It’s important to just getting started, the Irish playing our best team tennis in “Strength and conditioning keep the match toughness that shift their focus to achieving May.” 
The Irish will kick off the coach Chris Sandeen did a was developed during the fall success in the Big East and Saturday’s matches begin at spring half of their season this great job giving them a pro-season.” qualifying for the NCAA tour-10 a.m., while Sunday’s events weekend when they take on gram to follow over the break.” William & Mary is not a new nament. begin at noon. The two match-William & Mary Saturday and Sachire noted, however, a opponent for Notre Dame, as “It’s a long season. The es will be the first in a string of Virginia Sunday in team play. program such as the one the two teams met in early NCAA trophy and the Big East events for the Irish, who will 
Irish associate coach Ryan Sandeen developed will only go November at the William & trophy aren’t handed out until also compete in the National Sachire said the squad put an as far as the players take it. Mary Invitational. Senior May,” Sachire said. “We need Team Indoor Championships in emphasis on strong condition-“Some players did tourna-Stephen Havens and freshman to keep an even keel and not February. ing over break to remain in ments over break to stay in Billy Pecor were named to the get too high or too low during position to win another Big match shape,” he said. all-tournament team at the the next few months. We need Contact Andrew Owens at East title and qualify for anoth-“Otherwise they would have event. to avoid getting shaken or too aowens2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Finals ultimate goal for ND 
By KATHERINE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Last season was a familiar story for the Irish — a high ranking, a successful regular season and an exit in the semifinals of the NCAA tournament. This year, Notre Dame is hoping to make it all the way. 
“I think there’s a good chance of us being in the Final Four again, and once you get to that point you always have a chance of winning,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “When you’re in the Final Four, everyone’s good.” 
The team has quite a few return­ing starters, but also lost some major players with the departure last year’s senior class. Thankfully, the team has a handful of freshmen prepared to fill the void. 
“It’ll be important for the fresh-
see FRESHMEN/page 14 


FENCING 
Meinhardt out, Irish head to NYU Duals 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to continue the momentum they gained from a stellar showing at the Dallas North American Cup when both the men’s and women’s squads travel to the Big Apple to partic­ipate in the NYU Duals on Friday. 
The tournament will provide an early-season test for the Irish, who lost star fencer Gerek Meinhardt for the season due to a torn meniscus. The Irish will have the opportunity to test out different lineups against top competition at the NYU duals in the wake of losing the NCAA champion and former Olympian. 
“There are many fencers who are going to New York with the opportunity to show that they can replace Gerek,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “Fortunately we have a wide bench, and there are some good guys who are ready to step up and take his place.” 
The NYU duals will also give Notre Dame an early glimpse of some of its top rivals. Ohio State, St. John’s, Yale and Columbia will comprise a field that Bednarski called one of the toughest at the NYU Duals in the last ten years. 
The Irish recently ranked No. 1 in the initial USFCA poll of the 
see BEDNARSKI/page 12 


page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 21, 2011 
Annual questions return for Irish 
It’s that time of year again. Mid-January: The days of syllabus week, laughable amounts of snow and the annual questioning of Notre Dame bas­ketball. 
What classes will be the easi­est this semester? 
Will the Irish ever win a game on the road? 
When will the walk to South Dining Hall no longer result in frostbite? 
Does Notre Dame have an offense aside from a 3-point barrage? 
Are there more than seven players on the Irish roster? 
Can Mike Brey right the ship before an excess amount of damage is done to his team’s resume? 
If only these questions hadn’t all been heard before. Just like cupcake classes and South Bend snowfalls, doubting Notre Dame has become an annual trend, seemingly with decades of tradition sup­porting it. 
The only chance to buck this habit lies in the very hands of the doubted, and perhaps this is finally the year Brey, Ben Hansbrough, Tim Abromaitis and the rest of the Irish make a state­ment. 
Losing on the road in the Big East, or against Kentucky in Kentucky, is far from preferable, but there are darker black marks to have against you. Syracuse (with only one loss), Marquette and St. John’s are all likely NCAA tournament teams. They should be expected to defend their respective home courts. Notre Dame briefly ascended to the top-10 by doing just that, beating likely March Madness participants in Gonzaga, Georgetown, Connecticut, Cincinnati and St. John’s. At some point the Irish will find their stride on the road. It is nearly inevitable, especially with a trip to DePaul coming up on Feb. 3. 
As for the Irishman’s pho­bia of an offense that so often goes three points at a time, take a deep breath for a should-be-common-sense factoid. Teams that shoot 3s and make them are more likely to win; teams that shoot 3s and miss them are less likely to win. It is not that Notre Dame lives and dies by the 3pointer, but rather a poor shooting per­centage on any given night is a tough hurdle to over-come in general. Any team can go cold. Irish fans sim­ply need to hope that fate does not befall Notre Dame in crunch time, say, in March, as it didn’t in 2003, when Brey’s squad rode 13 three-pointers, on only 24 attempts, to a Sweet 16 berth, the first in school his­tory since 1987. 

As for that lack of depth troubling the Irish, a Wednesday surprise may have changed Notre Dame’s fortunes heading into this crucial weekend against Marquette and at Pittsburgh. Senior forward Carleton Scott injured his hamstring during Notre Dame’s 70-58 loss at Syracuse on Jan. 1. The Irish have sorely missed their jack-of-all-trades throughout Scott’s absence over the last three weeks, but in the victory over No. 25 Cincinnati on Wednesday, he played 15 minutes, hit­ting both of his field goal attempts — both 3-pointers 
— for six points. 
His return lengthens the portion of the bench Brey is comfortable with by a signif­icant amount, considering without Scott, Brey only used two players off his bench consistently — sopho­more guard Joey Brooks and sophomore forward Jack Cooley. Once Scott returns to full health, the Irish starting five should no longer absolutely need to play more than 30 minutes apiece. 
Scott’s return, along with an eventual — albeit still hopeful — traveling break­through will answer some of those annual questions. Notre Dame faced a tough non-conference slate, including wins over Georgia, California and Wisconsin in the span of four days at the Old Spice Classic in Orlando over Thanksgiving weekend, and with 15 wins to date, nobody should be truly con­cerned about Notre Dame’s Big Dance chances. 
At that point, the Irish can legitimately, finally silence their critics — including myself — with a strong run, completely contrary to last season’s disappointing finale. 
This squad, in Brey’s 11th season, could be the one to accomplish just that. But until they do, those ques­tions will continue to linger, just like syllabus week remains a joke in most stu­dents’ eyes and Texas natives — such as Scott — will still find Midwestern winters a nuisance. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
ND to face Marquette, Pittsburgh 

By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
After a rough week on the road, No. 16 Notre Dame returned home and to victory with a 66-58 win over No. 25 Cincinnati Wednesday. With the Bearcats behind them, the Irish es. 
“You need some confidence on the road, and you know we haven’t had any of that,” Brey said. “Just look at us last week 
— we just haven’t been able to see a 3-point shot go in, you know get an and-one, we get to the line, we miss a free throw, you know, it’s just kind of deflat­
have a shot at redemption ing where against Marquette Saturday you’ve [got to] before hitting the road again to come back and take on No. 4 Pittsburgh guard all the Monday. time and you 
In their first matchup, the haven’t gotten Irish (15-4, 3-3 Big East) were anything on shut down 79-57 by the Golden that other end.” Eagles (13-6, 4-2), whose hot The absence hands from behind the arc put of senior for-Notre Dame in an early hole ward Carleton that they struggled to recover Scott has ham-from. Marquette shot 70.6 per-pered the Irish cent from 3-point range in that somewhat, as contest, led by senior guard Notre Dame has Dwight Buycks, who hit all five gone just 2-2 
against the Irish in a 72­54 win at 
“You need some confdence 
Madison Square on the road, and you know 
Garden that we haven’t had any of that. 
sent Notre 
Just look at us last week —
Dame home on its first we just haven’t been able 
losing streak to see a three-pointof the season. 
shot go in.” 
The Irish hit just four field goals in the Mike Brey first half and 
Irish coach 
committed 20 turnovers in the game. Furthermore, Notre Dame continued to struggle from downtown, as the Irish made just three of their 15 3­point attempts. 
Irish coach Mike Brey said he thinks his team may have lacked a confidence boost in the early going of the two road loss-
win the conference title and handed No. 3 Syracuse its first loss of the season Monday night with a 74-66 win Monday night at home. In total, the Panthers have notched wins against five ranked opponents, defeating No. 22 Texas, No. 13 Tennessee, No. 4 Connecticut and No. 19 Georgetown in addition to their victory over 
Syracuse. 
Junior guard 
Ashton Gibbs 
“I don’t think you have 
leads the 
to even use the phrase 
Panthers in ‘sense of urgency’ with scoring with 16 points per 
them, they know 
game. Senior 
[what’s at stake].” 
center Gary McGhee leads Mike Brey Pittsburgh in rebounding 
Irish coach 
would have been tough places to get a win.” 
Despite the setb acks, Brey said he believes his veteran team will not fade as Notre Dame enters the next phase of its conference season. 
“I don’t 
think you have to even use the phrase ‘sense of urgency’ with them, they know [what’s at stake],” Brey said. 
No. 4 Pittsburgh has set the pace in the Big East through the first third of the season. The Panthers (18-1, 6-0) entered the season as the coaches’ pick to with 7.7 rebounds per game, and the 
6’10, 250-pounder should pose a formidable threat in the mid­dle. 
After St. John’s successfully duplicated Marquette’s tight defensive performance, Brey knows his team will face tough defensive pressure the rest of the way when Big East foes play the Irish, and the Golden Eagles and Panthers should be no exceptions. 
“We’re [going to] see a lot of guys coming at us,” Brey said. “Nobody’s coming to play zone, nobody’s playing zone. The guys in orange [Syracuse] we already played, so everybody’s coming at us. 
“It’s funny how when you get into the league then ‘the book’ on how to defend, ‘the book’ on that, ‘the book’ — that’s ‘the book’ on us — come after us, make us uncomfortable, frazzle us, how [are] we going to handle it?” 
The Irish tip off against Marquette at 7 p.m. Saturday at the Purcell Pavilion before trav­eling to face Pittsburgh at the 
Petersen  Events  Center  in  
Pittsburgh,  Pa. Monday  on  
ESPN.  

Contact Mike Gotimer mgotimer@nd.edu 
of his 3-point attempts, and jun­iors Jae Crowder and Darius Johnson-Odom. On the other end of the court, Marquette shut down Notre Dame’s scorers, as the Irish shot just 18.8 percent from 3-point range and 39.6 percent overall. 
The offensive woes continued Sunday as St John’s used a simi­lar man-to-man approach without him. However, Brey said he believes the Irish will still face stiff challenges with Scott in the lineup. 
“He’s a key guy for us, but I also think you get into league play, it was [going to] be tough with him, you know winning at St. John’s or winning at Marquette,” Brey said. “Let’s be very honest about that. Those 


Friday, January 21, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Transfer takes charge 
After making switch to Notre Dame, senior guard Ben Hansbrough has embraced a leadership role 
player on the opposing squad, By ERIC PRISTER and held Connecticut junior Associate Sports Editor g u a rd Kem b a Wa l k e r, t h e  seasons with the Bulldogs. He a ver a g e d 8 . 8 p oin t s o v e r those two years, but when it  
leading scorer in the Big East  came to deciding on a new  
R e ce iv i n g c o n t r i b ut i o n s and then-leading scorer in the  school, he knew that Notre  
from transfer students is not a NCAA at more than 25 points  Dame would offer him exactly  
rarity for the Notre Dame bas-per game, to just 19 points  what he was looking for.  
ketball program. In fact, two and 0-5 shooting from beyond  “Obviously you get the best  
current Irish starters did not the arc.  of both worlds here — aca­ 
start their career in South “ I l i k e s e tt in g t h e t o n e  demically and with sports,”  
Bend. But senior guard Ben def e n s i v e l y, p l a yin g t o u g h  Han sb r o u g h s a i d .  
Hansbrough does more than defense,” Hansbrough said.  “Basketball’s in the best con- 
just contribute for the Irish — “On defense, I am just trying  f e r e n c e in A m e ric a, a nd  
he has become the de facto to get everybody going, and I  yo u ’ r e co n s t a n t l y g e ttin g  
leader of the 2010-11 Notre like to take the best player  na tio na l e xp o s u r e . A t t he  
Dame squad, both on and off and try to hide his strengths a  same time, you’re graduating  
the court. little bit.”  from an excellent academic  
“Being a captain, obviously But being a leader is not  institution.”  
y ou hav e t o be a l e a d e r, ” j u s t a b o u t s t a t i st i c s, a nd  Hansbrough thrives on his  
Hansbrough said. “My overall Hansbrough has embraced his  confidence, and it’s that confi­ 
role is just to continue to get role as the emotional leader  dence that allows him to play  
th i s t e a m o f t h e Ir i sh  at a high level. And once he  
going, and pro-squad as well, vide my spirit “Being a captain, s om eth i n g h e and work ethic le ar ned f r o m obviously, you have tof o r t h e t e a m , t h e N ot r e be a leader. My overalland I just hope Dame veterans it r u b s o f f o n role is just to continue wh e n h e  s ta r t s hi tt i n g sh ot s , it becomes very difficult to stop him. Hansbrough scored 19 points in the first half against K e nt u ck y, i n c l u d i ng th ree s trai g h t 3-point ers and 11  
everybody.” ar riv e d i n to get th is team going, H a n s b r o u g h 2008. and provide my spiritis lead ing th e “Three years Irish in scoring, and work ethic for the ag o w h e n I  points in a row. “It’s kind of weird, because me and the guy that rebounds for me, Pat Holmes, Jr., he  
assists, steals c a me h e r e , team.” a n d 3 -po i nt [ f or m e r Ir i sh  can kind of tell when I go onto that zone,” Hansbrough said.  
p e r c e n t a g e , players] Zach a nd i s s e c on d Ben Hansbrough H i l l e s l a n d , in m i n u t e s Irish guard K y l e  “It’s just hoping you can get to t h at zo ne, a nd co n s t a n t l y working every day, training on  
p l ay e d. Th i s M c A l a r n e y ,  your game. Once you get out  
m u l t i -f a c e t e d Ry a n Ay e r s  there on the court and you  
offensive approach is some-and Luke Zellar were on the  start to see a couple shots go  
thing that he said he strives team, and it helped just being  in, it’s almost like you’re rem- 
for. His 15.7 points per game around those guys and watch­ iniscing from these workouts  
is good enough for eighth in ing how they carried them- w h en y ou g e t h ot a n d yo u  
the Big East, and he ranks selves,” Hansbrough said. “It  can’t wait to touch it again  
f i f t h i n th e Big E as t i n 3 -r e ally w as l i ke a l e a r n i n g  and get another shot up there. DAN JACOBS/The Observer  
pointers made. Irish coach process for me. And then once  Als o, m y t e am m a t e s h a ve Senior guard Ben Hansbrough pulls up for a jumper in Notre Dame’s  
M i k e B r e y h a s r e p e a t e dly y o u b e c o me a s e n i o r, i t ’s  been doing a great job of find-Jan. 4 win over Connecticut.  
talk e d a bo ut h ow w e l l almost like you’ve watched  ing me when I get into the  
Hansbrough has let the game t h e se g u y s a n d h ow h a r d  zone, so it’s partly to their  was raised in,” Hansbrough  had would be in open gym at  
come to him this year, instead they’ve worked and you try to  credit also.”  said. “I have two very compet­ school, and those were pretty  
of searching for shots. embrace it and set an exam- Hansbrough claims his con­ itive older brothers, and me  bad. There were some lost  
“I need to just go out there ple for the younger guys and  fidence was instilled in him  b e i ng th e y o un ges t , y o u  teeth a couple times. It hap- 
and play, attacking and get-then how we do things here.  from competing against his  almost have to learn how to  pens,” he said.  
ting other people open and Hopefully they can enjoy the  older brothers Greg and for- play with an edge just to com- When asked which of the  
scoring at the same time,” Notre Dame experience at the  mer North Carolina standout  pete with those guys. Tyler  two l o s t t h e i r teet h ,  
Hansbrough said. same time.”  and current Indiana Pacers  being 2 1/2 years older than  Hansbrough answered point- 
Defensively, Hansbrough has Ha n sb r o u g h b e g a n his  forward Tyler.  me and Greg being 4 1/2 years  edly.  
been excellent for the Irish as career at Mississippi State  “I think a lot of the confi­ o l d e r t h a n me, a t s u ch a  “ U mm … me,” h e s a i d ,  
well. He often guards the best University, and played two  dence comes with the family I  young age you have to kind of  laughing.  
le ar n h o w y o u ’ r e go i ng t o  H an s b r o ug h s a i d h e  
compete, and I think you pick  embraces any opportunity to  
u p a n e d g e, and tha t e d g e  get better, and he was allowed  
may reflect confidence. I just  a u niq u e o p po rt u n i t y t h i s  
t h i n k i t ’s i n s t i l l e d in me  summer. He played in pickup  
almost, being the littlest of the  gam es at Chapel Hi ll, N.C .  
three.”  against professional and col- 
In addition to the confidence  lege athletes, including New  
he learned, Hansbrough said  Yo rk K n i c ks p o i n t g ua r d  
that some of his determina- Raymond Felton.  
t i o n c a me f ro m wa tc hi n g  “ I t w a s gr e a t f or m e ,  
Tyler’s achievements — 2008  because as an athlete, you  
National Player of the Year,  always want to try to train  
2 0 0 9 N a t i o n a l C ha m p i o n,  against the best competition  
2009 NBA Draft lottery pick.  out there,” Hansbrough said.  
“My brother’s had a lot of  “ I w as a ble t o t r ain with  
success,” he said. “I would say  Raymond Felton, and it was  
that I took a lot of his work  great to go out and play with  
ethic. Seeing the success he’s  somebody who’s at that level  
had and just watching and  and compete against. That  
learning how he got there,  was really good for my game.  
you kind of learn how he was  “It brought my confidence  
successful with his work ethic  u p to a n e w l e v e l , a nd i t  
and his game on and off the  brought my game up to a new  
court. You just can kind of  level too. Going around those  
learn from it, and it’s been  g uy s a n d se e i n g h o w t h e y  
really good for me to learn  treat the game and how they  
from that and see the success  dedicate themselves to the  
he’s had from his hard work.  game. It was just good for me.  
You just try to adapt it, and  Watching how he was a point  
it’s worked for me also.”  guard at a professional level,  
Because they went to the  a n d wa tc hin g h o w h e go t  
s a m e h i g h s c ho ol,  everybody involved, and his  
Hansbrough was able to wit- tempo, speed and work ethic  
ness his brother’s work ethic  really surprised me, and I’ve  
u p-c l o s e — so m e t i m e s t o o  just been trying to translate  
close.  s o m e o f th a t s t u ff i nto m y  
“ We p l a yed on th e s a me  game.”  
DAN JACOBS/The Observer  h i g h s c h oo l t ea m , a n d w e  
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough snags a loose ball in Notre Dame’s Dec. 29 win over Georgetown.  n e v e r p l ay e d ag ain st e a c h  Contact Eric Prister at  
Hansbrough leads the Irish in points, assists, steals and 3-point percentage.  other, so the only rivalries we  eprister@nd.edu  

page 4 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 21, 2011 
Notre Dame Men’s: Notre Dame vs. Marquette 
Record: 15-4 (4-3 BIG EAST) AP: 16 Coaches: 16 

2010-11 Schedule  
Nov. 12 GeorgiaSouthern—W Nov. 14 Liberty — W Nov. 17 Chicago State — W Nov. 22 Maine — W Nov. 25 Georgia — W (2OT) Nov. 26 California — W Nov. 28 Wisconsin — W Nov. 30 Indiana State — W Dec. 8 Kentucky — L Dec. 11 Gonazaga — W Dec. 19 Stony Brook — W Dec. 22 UMBC — W Dec. 29 Georgetown — W Jan. 1 @ Syracuse — L Jan. 4 Connecticut — W Jan. 8 St. John’s — W Jan. 10 @ Marquette — L Jan. 16 @ St. John’s — L Jan. 19 Cincinnati — W Jan. 22 Marquette Jan. 24 @ Pittsburgh Feb. 3 @ DePaul Feb. 6 Rutgers Feb. 9 Louisville Feb. 12 @ South Florida Feb. 19 @ West Virginia Feb. 23 @ Providence Feb. 26 Seton Hall Feb. 28 Villanova March 5 @ Connecticut  


ERIC ATKINS: 7.3 ppg, 2.4 rpg, 3.6 apg DWIGHT BUYCKS: 10.8 ppg, 3.6 rpg, 4.1 apg Buycks, a senior, will likely continue Atkins’ introduction into the world of Big East point guard play. The Irish freshman has performed admirably thus far against ranked foes such as Georgetown and Connecticut. While senior forward Carelton Scott takes it easy on an injured hamstring, Atkins has handled his new starter’s role with relative ease. He ranks second in the Big East in assist­to-turnover ratio, averaging 2.7 assists per turnover, and recorded zero turnovers in his first Big East start against Connecticut Jan. 19. The Golden Eagles veteran will push Atkins on all fronts, including his defense, but the Maryland native has shown saavy so far, and should continue doing so. EDGE: ATKINS  BEN HANSBROUGH: 15.7 ppg, 3.6 rpg, 3.8 apg DARIUS JOHNSON-ODOM: 15.9 ppg, 3.5 rpg, 2.8 apg Each team’s leading scorer will likely draw his counterpart for a defensive assignment, which could inhibit their usual points-production. Hansbrough has proven to be a complete player for the Irish this season, including show­ing abundant amounts of emotion on the court. Furthermore, his defensive performance against Connecticut’s Kemba Walker cemented his status as completely necessary. Johnson-Odom has not faced as stiff a challenge as Walker — currently the nation’s second-most prolific scorer — and thus will likely struggle more slowing Hansbrough than Hansbrough will slowing the Golden Eagles’ leader. EDGE: HANSBROUGH  


SCOTT MARTIN: 9.9 ppg, 5.2 rpg, 1.7 apg JIMMY BUTLER: 15.4 ppg, 6.6 rpg, 2.1 apg Martin, a Purdue transfer, came to Notre Dame with much promise before an ACL injury sidelined him all of last season. After two years spent on the bench, it has taken him some time to readjust to game speed, though with each game he has slipped more into a groove, including an 11-point performance Wednesday during Notre Dame’s 66­58 victory over No. 25 Cincinnati. His natural quickness will be needed against Marquette in order to slow down the likes of Butler, who pours in his 15.4 points per game while remaining below the radar. If Butler gets going Saturday night, Martin will likely face a quick leash from Irish coach Mike Brey in favor of a more physical defend­er such as sophomore guard Joey Brooks, a move that would limit the Irish offensively. EDGE: BUTLER  TIM ABROMAITIS: 15.3 ppg, 6.8 rpg, 2.1 apg JAE CROWDER: 13.0 ppg, 6.7 rpg, 1.5 apg Crowder is quickly moving into the national spotlight as an increasingly dif­ficult matchup. The combination of a body size of some college football line­backers and the ability to drop back and hit a jump shot creates a dilemma for any defender. Abromaitis, solidly built himself, should be up for the chal­lenge, but if Crowder gains any momentum against the Irish forward, he will be difficult to slow down before the final buzzer. Contrarily, Abromaitis’ offensive repertoire hinges on his 3-point shooting and ability to slip behind the defensive for backdoor lay-ups. In all of reality, both of those skills are easier to slow down than Crowder’s pure physicality is. EDGE: CROWDER  


TYRONE NASH: 9.9 ppg, 5.8 rpg, 2.8 apg CHRIS OTULE: 5.2 ppg, 2.7 rpg, 0.2 apg Nash has received consistent playing time for four years now, so he is no stranger to the physical style of play in the Big East. Otule, a sophomore, has not fully adjusted to that not-always-desireable aspect yet. Thus, Nash should be able to negotiate his way past Otule’s three-inch height advantage and 30­pound weight difference and hold his own down in the post. If Nash can keep Otule from ruling the boards, most likely with the help of Abromaitis, Martin, senior forward Carleton Scott and sophomore forward Jack Cooley, the Golden Eagles will have difficulty gaining offensive momentum consistently, a factor that could make all the difference Saturday.  BENCH PERFORMANCE/INTANGIBLES Marquette went seven-players deep against Notre Dame during its 79-57 victory over the Irish on Jan. 10. For the past few weeks, Notre Dame has only been able to go seven-players deep itself, but with the progressive return of senior forward Carleton Scott, currently coming off the bench, suddenly the Irish have eight players to rotate on the hardwood. Sophomore forward Jack Cooley provides a big body when the Irish need that presence. Meanwhile Marquette’s Vander Blue is a dangerous weapon hidden on the bench. Golden Eagles coach Buzz Williams tries to use Blue as a change of pace, but in their previous meeting, the Irish held Blue to only two points in 20 minutes.  
EDGE: NASH  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  

Friday, January 21, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Women’s: Notre Dame vs. St. John’s Notre Dame 
Record: 16-4 (5-1 BIG EAST) 

Graphic Illustrations by Blair Chemidlin  AP: 11 Coaches: 10  
2010-11 Schedule  
Nov. 12 New Hampshire — W Nov. 15 Morehead State — W Nov. 18 UCLA — L (2OT) Nov. 21 @ Kentucky — L Nov. 26 IUPUI — W Nov. 27 Wake Forest — W Nov. 28 Butler — W Dec. 1 @ Baylor — L Dec. 5 Purdue — W Dec. 8 @ Providence — W Dec. 11 Creighton — W Dec. 20 @ Valparaiso — W Dec. 29 Gonzaga — W Dec. 30 LoyolaMarymount—W Jan. 2 SEMissouriState—W Jan. 5 @ Marquette — W Jan. 8 Connecticut — L Jan. 12 Louisville — W Jan. 15 @ Pittsburgh — W Jan. 18 Georgetown — W Jan. 23 St. John’s Jan. 29 @ Villanova Feb. 1 Syracuse Feb. 5 @ South Florida Feb. 8 Seton Hall Feb. 12 Rutgers Feb. 19 @ Connecticut Feb. 22 @ West Virginia Feb. 26 Cincinnati Feb. 28 @ DePaul  

SKYLAR DIGGINS: 14.1 ppg, 3.5 rpg, 4.7 apg SKY LINDSAY: 6.3 ppg, 2.7 rpg, 1.2 apg  NATALIE NOVOSEL: 15.2 ppg, 3.9 rpg, 2.3 apg NADIRAH McKENITH: 7.2 pg, 4.3 rpg, 3.2 apg  
Despite taking a back seat to Novosel in scoring, Diggins is still Notre Dame’s most dangerous player on both sides of the ball. While her scoring average is on line with last season’s pace, Diggins has become a better dis­tributor as McGraw’s offense runs through her. She ranks sixth in the confer­ence with 4.7 assists per game, and her defense has also improved. Lindsay should have a difficult time creating her own shot, but will not be asked to handle the scoring duties. The veteran guard will still play a valuable role for St. John’s as a ball handler. In the end, Diggins should outperform Lindsay, if for no other reason than her advantage amid their similar first names.  Novosel has taken her game to another level this season, especially on the offensive side of the ball. Leading the Irish in scoring and is the eighth-lead­ing scorer in the Big East, Novosel, who is McGraw’s most consistent player and a factor in the game plan of opposing coaches. She is also comfortable taking the final shot of the game. McKenith is a bit of an unknown in her sec­ond season for the Red Storm. She is a good ball handler with enough skill to get to the hoop, but will face a greater challenge in keeping Novosel in front of her while providing Lindsay a bit of support in keeping Diggins out of the lane.  
EDGE: DIGGINS  EDGE: NOVOSEL  
BRITTANY MALLORY: 6.8 ppg, 1.8 rpg, 2.3 apg SHENNEIKA SMITH: 14.5 ppg, 6.2 rpg, 1.9 apg  BECCA BRUSZEWSKI: 8.3 ppg, 5.2 rpg, 1.7 apg CENTHYA HART: 8.2 ppg, 6.4 rpg, 0.9 apg  
Mallory has struggled to find a rhythm since injuring her ankle during the third game of the season during a loss against Kentucky. The senior guard is one of the lone Irish threats from beyond the arc, shooting 43.4 percent from deep, and can bring the ball up the court, but she is not a serious scoring threat near the basket at this point in her career. On the other hand, Smith is one of the conference’s emerging stars and a natural scorer. McGraw said she is one of three sophomores who made a serious impact last season. Smith posted 23 points and 10 rebounds against the Irish in a Red Storm victory in 2010, and has the potential to erupt again.  Bruszewski has had a solid season for the Irish thus far and has stepped up in a number of big games. While the senior forward’s scoring average has fallen from last season, her rebounding and minutes played are both up, now playing more than 23 minutes per game. She has become a legitimate post defender for the Irish and adds a veteran presence on the floor. Also a senior forward, Hart is a nice complement to Da’Shena Stevens in the post and can score if needed. Hart can still hurt the Irish if she continues to grab offensive rebounds, as she has 56 on the season thus far and ranks in the top-10 in the conference.  
EDGE: SMITH  EDGE: BRUSZEWSKI  
DEVERAUX PETERS: 10.8 ppg, 6.8 rpg, 1.9 apg Da’SHENA STEVENS: 12.0 ppg, 6.8 rpg, 1.4 apg This will be the matchup of the night. Peters is coming off her third consec­utive Big East Honor Roll appearance, and has improved every aspect of her game. After being plagued by injuries in her first two seasons, the senior has responded to addition playing time with her best numbers in her career. More importantly, she’s staying out of foul trouble. But Stevens is St. John’s second legitimate scoring option after Smith, and blew through the Irish for 21 points and 11 rebounds last season. The junior forward is a serious threat on offense and will be physical with Peters under the boards. If Bruszewski is not able to help out Peters down low, Stevens could lead to headaches. EDGE: STEVENS  BENCH PERFORMANCE/INTANGIBLES Notre Dame has one of the deepest benches in the league, and it’s only get­ting better as the season progresses. Not every team can bring a 6-foot-3 freshman off the bench, but McGraw has that luxury in Natalie Achonwa, who averages 8.1 points and 5.8 boards in just 18 minutes per game. Freshman Kayla McBride ranks fourth on the team in scoring, but has a knack for getting to the hoop and leading the fast break. Kaila Turner and Fraderica Miller also add speed and solid defense in limited minutes. The Red Storm only have one serious threat off the bench in Eugenia McPherson, but she’s more than capable of providing the lift. The sophomore guard ranks third on the team in scoring with 10.1 points per game. EDGE: NOTRE DAME Analysis by Douglas Farmer and Chris Masoud  

page 6 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 21, 2011 
Post presence 
After a slow start to the season, senior forward Devereaux Peters is making her mark down low for ND 
we’re always trying to push it now. But once I finally had a
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 

and get it in transition. So you really good game where I start-
Sports Writer 

can’t really sleep at any time ed to pick the pace back up and because we’re always moving, started to finish and do the 
Critics of the Irish team this always pushing. It’s not like you things I used to do, it was just season have said Notre Dame is have any time to really think uphill from there and once I too young to be good, with a about everything and take it all started playing better I got that major weakness in the post. in, you have to go, go, go. confidence back.” Senior forward Devereaux “We may be a young team, Peters wasn’t worried about Peters is making sure those crit-but we still work hard. We take her playing meeting her own ics know that they’re wrong. pride in that we’re ready every expectations as much as she And she manages to do so while game, no matter who it is, we’re was concerned about doing the sitting out for up to 15 minutes always ready and we want to best for her team. She could per half. work past that point, to get to sense a trend coming out in her 
“A lot of people were talking the point where people say, performances earlier this sea-about how we’re low in the post ‘they’re a good team,’ and you son, a trend that wasn’t getting this year and how we don’t have don’t have to put in the young her anywhere and almost lost a post game and that was going factor. I think that everybody her spot on the court. to be our weakness. And the thinks about that every day “I saw how I was playing was posts we’re kind of like, ‘Oh, because yes we are a young affecting the team as a whole,” OK, that’s our weakness, huh?’” team, but we’re still playing Peters said. “My play had down-Peters said. “We took that as a teams that have grown and graded a lot from last year and shot at us, so ever since then have a lot more upperclassmen. last season, even though I didn’t we’ve been fighting back. In So I think there’s a lot of pres-play the whole season, I really practice, we’re running if we sure there.” wasn’t performing at all, I was-miss them so it’s really Most of the pressure Peters n’t doing much of anything. It ingrained it our heads this year feels doesn’t come from the out-was getting to the point that that we have to box out and get side, but rather from within they [her teammates] were like, on the boards, especially herself. A constant perfectionist ‘I don’t know if we’re going to because we’re not as big as on the court, Peters does her have to take your spot or what’s most people. They really lit that best to make sure she gets going to have to happen to fire under us early.” everything right the first time. make you turn it around.’ So 
Standing at 6-foot-2, Peters “I’m somewhat of a perfec-that kind of woke me up. I knows she is not one of the tionist on the court,” she said. “I thought ok, I have to pick it up, tallest players at her position, hate being wrong and I hate let-I’m not really doing much of but that hasn’t stopped her from ting other people down. If I anything. making the Big East Honor Roll make a mistake, I’m really on “I don’t want to let the team for three consecutive weeks. myself. I hate making mistakes. down and I don’t want to sit on Peters makes sure to bring her My teammates I think are way the bench either. So I think that all to the court each game, lead-more forgiving of me than I am really motivated me to pick it up ing her squad in rebounds (6.5 of myself.” and really get back to playing per game), blocked shots (1.5) Peters doesn’t see pushing for how I used to.” and field goal percentage (.570), perfection as being a negative The Peters on the court this while placing third in scoring aspect all the time, however, as season sports knee braces on with an average of 11.1 points she feels it helped her bring her both knees after tearing her per game. Peters also ranks performance to where it needs ACL earlier in her career, and among the top players in the to be this season after a rough struggled with tendonitis early conference in field goal percent-start. on, but has turned her play age (fourth) and blocked shots “I think I started out really around to become one of the ready. But she’s been on the all-already trying to get my aver­(eighth). slow and I was getting really most explosive players on the Big East honor roll three weeks age, so it’s just a bonus to have 
Helping keep Peters on her frustrated with how I was play-Irish squad. And her efforts in a row. She’s really been play-that extra time.” game is the very youth for ing. I wasn’t playing well in the have not gone unnoticed. ing well really all season, but And Peters has been working which many have criticized big games, I felt like I wasn’t “This is really the best that certainly since we got into Big toward that double-double each Notre Dame. really coming through,” she she’s played,” Irish coach Muffet East play.” game. Peters has secured four 
“You can never take a play said. “So I tried to pick it up McGraw said. “She had a pre-Coming into the season ready of them, most recently at off,” Peters said. “We’re quick more in practice, my teammates season this year — she was able gave Peters not only a chance to Pittsburgh Jan. 15 where she paced, we push it, you can’t were pushing me more. I to work out this summer and work on her own strengths and had 15 points and a game-high really take a break at any time expected more of myself, and I then the preseason, and so she weaknesses but to also mature 10 rebounds, as well as two because we’re always moving, think it’s starting to come out really came into the season as a player and to see where blocks, two steals and four 
she can most help her team. assists. Peters snared her fifth 
“The biggest thing she’s doing double-digit rebounding game is she’s staying in the game,” on Tuesday night against McGraw said. “Foul trouble Georgetown when she made a plagued her early. She’s been game-high 12 rebounds, outdo-really smart, she’s really matur-ing her previous performances ing, and she’s finding ways to this season. It was the seventh score, in addition to the great double-digit rebounding effort job she’s doing on the boards of her career and is exactly the and on the defensive end. Really kind of play Peters expects out pleased with the way she’s play-of herself. Not for her own stats ing right now — she’s definitely but for her team. become a force inside.” “Everybody’s really working 
McGraw wasn’t ready to let on getting the rebounds in Peters’ fouls be an excuse for because if you out-rebound a making a lesser impact on the team, you are most likely going court, and she let her know it. to win the game,” she said. “I 
“I think at first, with me foul-just want to do my part. I don’t ing so much, Coach still expect-necessarily need to be making ed me to get the numbers. She the great plays. Sometimes it’s told me at the beginning of the not for me to make the big year that she wanted me to plays. Sometimes it’s for me to average a double-double,” guard a certain person or to Peters said. “And she still make sure I box out or do the expected that from me even little things like come high when though I was fouling. After your I’m supposed to. So I really second foul in the first half, you want to make sure I do my role sit out. So I was sitting out for in every game, whatever it about 15 minutes, but she was might be, and not necessarily still expecting me to get 10 and make sure to be the big time 
10. person, even if it’s not getting 
“It really pushed me to work noticed, I just want to do what-harder even if I wasn’t getting ever they need me to do to win as many minutes because she that game.” was still expecting a certain She may not need the atten­standard out of me. I was really tion, but Peters has definitely pushing to work hard in those become a firework on the court minutes that I was in because I for Notre Dame this year. knew I wasn’t going to get as much. Now that I’m getting Contact Meaghan Veselik at them [minutes] more, I’m mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



Friday, January 21, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 7 
New confidence gives new hope 
The look on Becca Bruszewski’s face in the first five minutes of Notre Dame’s 80-58 win over Georgetown Tuesday was all anyone needed to see. 
The sen­ior forward scored four of her 10 points in the open­ing min­utes of the game. Twice, she barreled through several defenders on her way to the basket, her eyes fiercely inquiring why the Hoyas were trying to mess with her team. 
The concentration on Skylar Diggins face in the first half Tuesday was another tell. The sophomore guard hit five of eight shots and five of five free throws for a total of 17 first-half points, enough to bury the country’s No. 16 team by halftime. 
That attitude of over­whelming confidence has spread to the rest of the team, and has become obvi­ous to those watching. 
“Now I think top to bottom we have that. I think every­body’s getting that now,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We’re feeding off of Becca, and we’re feeding off of Skylar. When you look at two people like that who are out there battling all the time, it makes you want to work hard too.” 
That Georgetown was ranked didn’t matter to the Irish, who were clearly ready to fight. 
It was Notre Dame’s first win over a ranked team this season after several close losses, none more heart­breaking than its narrow defeat at the hands of Connecticut on Jan. 8. 
But rankings didn’t matter in that game, either. The Irish approached the game like any other, started strong and led or kept close throughout the game, until a few missed opportunities at the end allowed the Huskies to take the ultimate 79-76 lead. 
“Notre Dame outplayed us in every way today,” Huskies coach Geno Auriemma admitted after the game. 
In January 2010, the No. 3 Irish fell to No. 1 Connecticut by 24 points. Motivated by the loss, they won eight straight before losing twice in a row — to St. John’s and Georgetown. They went on to lose twice more to Connecticut, by 25 and 12 points, respectively. 

This season is already radically different from last in personnel and results. But now, it is also different in the team’s toughness and poise, and that will make the difference going for­ward. 
Since losing by nine points at No. 2 Baylor in December, the Irish have won 11 of 12 and have developed the awareness that they can play with any­one in the country. They’ll need to keep that idea in their minds to make it through the rest of the Big East season — and there’s no indication they won’t. 
This year’s Connecticut game, which easily could have gone in the other direction, was the first example. The intimidation factor that played a signifi­cant role in the three games the Irish and Huskies played last year was gone. No longer was it McGraw admitting that Notre Dame would have to be at its best and Connecticut at its worst for there to be a chance at an upset. Instead, it was the Irish players knowing there was a chance, and Auriemma realizing his own luck. 
“Somehow we won the game in the last four min­utes,” he said. “That is kind of how basketball goes sometimes.” 
Three games later came the victory over Georgetown, Notre Dame’s biggest win over a ranked opponent since a 93-58 win over No. 23 Miami in 2004. Each player did her job on offense and defense. The Irish shot 53.8 percent from the field, with four players scoring points in double fig­ures. They out-rebounded the Hoyas 36-30 and took advantage of 21 Georgetown turnovers for 31 points. 
“When we’re playing like that, we’re a dangerous team,” Diggins said. 
Next on the list will be St. John’s on Sunday, and the Irish are ready to avenge another of last year’s losses. The Red Storm come in with a two-game winning streak and a chance to break into the top-25 with a quality win. 
But it seems unlikely that Bruszewski, Diggins and the rest of the Irish will allow that to happen. 
If anything, Notre Dame will be the ones intimidating the Red Storm. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Red Storm next up for Irish 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Heading into the heart of the Big East season, No. 11 Notre Dame looks to keep pace among the conference leaders as it hosts St. John’s Sunday. The Irish fell to the Red Storm last season 76-71 on the road, snapping an eight-game win 
another oppor­tunity for us to improve our RPI,” McGraw said. “They’ve got a good RPI, and of course just beating a Big East team every game is really important for us. We’ve got to take care of the home court.” 
Notre Dame (16-4, 5-1 Big East) is riding a three-game win streak and is currently ranked fourth in the confer­ence standings. While St. John’s (14-5, 3-3) has yet to separate itself from the pack, the Red Storm feature a num­ber of talented players who have risen to the occasion against the Irish. 
Averaging 14.5 points per game, sophomore guard Shenneika Smith shredded the Irish for 23 points and 10 rebounds in the Red Storm’s victory last season. 
“Last year, there were three really good freshmen in the league — Skylar [Diggins], Sugar Rodgers from Georgetown and Shenneika,” McGraw said. “She’s a great athlete, she can shoot over you, she’s got great elevation on her jumper, she can shoot threes — she’s really a dangerous player and a very difficult matchup for us.” 
In addition to Smith, junior forward Da’Shena Stevens is a dual threat for St. John’s who also had a big game during Notre Dame’s previous loss to the Red Storm. Stevens finished with 21 points and 11 rebounds in the contest, and currently 
streak. “They’re a ranked 
Despite the opponent, so it’s additional moti­
another opportunity
vation of returning the for us to improve our 
favor, Irish RPI. They’ve got a coach Muffet 
good RPI, and of 
McGraw said 
her team is course just beating a 
simply focused Big East team every on racking up 
game is really
another confer­
ence victory. important for us.” “They’re a ranked oppo-
Muffet McGraw 
nent, so it’s 
Irish coach 
averages 6.8 rebounds per game. 
“That’s going to be a good matchup,” McGraw said. “Da’Shena’s a really good player for St. John’s. It’s going to be a battle on the boards because she’s an excel­lent rebounder too. I think that was how they beat us at St. John’s last year 
— she really played well, she scored a lot inside, and got a lot of rebounds. That’s a key matchup.” 
The Irish will rely on the post presence of jun­ior forward she incorporates a larger line­up in conference play. 
“I think that freshman Natalie Achonwa has really contributed a lot the entire season, and now she’s getting a little more playing time,” McGraw said. “I think that all the posts are getting a little more playing time and it’s been really good. But rebounding is one of Natalie’s strengths, and that is something that she’s pretty much done all year. And now Devereaux is getting some double-figure rebounding games as well.” 
Although the Irish are poised to finish the conference season with one of the top seeds head­ing into the Big East Championships, a number of teams have emerged as legiti­mate contenders. While Connecticut remains the favorite to win a Big East title, six teams in the conference, including St. John’s, are ranked in the top-25 of the USA Today Coaches Poll. 
Along with the Huskies (17-1, 6-0), Rutgers (11-6, 4-0) and DePaul (17-2, 5-0) remain unbeaten in conference play. 
“It’s a great league. Top-to­bottom, it’s just so difficult,” 
McGraw said. 
“There’s proba-
D e v e r e a u x Peters and freshman for- “It’s a great league. Top-to-bottom, it’s just  bly nine teams with a shot at the NCAA tour- 
ward  Natalie  so diffcult. There’s  nament. DePaul  
Achonwa to keep Stevens in check. Peters was named to  probably nine teams with a shot at the NCAA tournament.”  is probably one of the surprises in the league this year with  
the  Big  East  the way they’ve  
Honor Roll for the third con-secutive week  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  started out.” The Blue Demons are off  

on Monday after averaging 
14.5 point and 6.5 rebounds in two games last week. 
Achonwa has opened a num­ber of eyes in her first Big East campaign, averaging 8.1 points and 5.8 rebounds in just 18 minutes per game. The 18­year-old Canadian has been a lift off the bench for McGraw, who has started to gradually increase her playing time as 
to the best start 
in program his­tory and will face the Irish in the final conference game of the regular season. Until then, Notre Dame will continue to plow through its conference schedule, beginning Sunday at 2 p.m. against St. John’s at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Chris Masoud cmasoud@nd.edu 



Graphic Illustration by Dan Jacobs and Blair Chemidlin 





