the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Latino students maintain culture on campus 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Senior Nicole Medina said the first time she ever experienced “culture shock” was when she stepped onto Notre Dame’s campus. 
“Speaking for myself [as a minority], you know you’re dif­ferent than anyone else,” she said. 
Medina said she identifies herself as part of Notre Dame’s Latino community. Though the culture is growing on campus, a minority of 10 percent of the student body identified itself as Latino, according to Institutional Research. Latino students on campus said they are trying to identify with two sometimes-conflicting identities 
— their ethnicity and their place at Notre Dame. 
“We bring something that other students haven’t been exposed to,” she said. “We’re all made very aware of our back­ground.” 
Sometimes it may seem like students are acting “super cul­tural” when they celebrate their background, Medina said. 
“When we’re back home, we don’t have to think about our culture everyday,” she said. “Coming here, we have to fight to preserve our culture.” 
Medina is one of the outgoing presidents for the Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlan (MEChA), a Latino student activist group promoting social reform. The other outgoing president, senior Marco Rosales, said Notre Dame’s Latino culture is different than on other campuses, mainly because of the demographic’s small numbers at the University. 
“We have an obligation and a responsibility to represent our people well, and we try to do that,” Rosales said. 
Allert Brown-Gort, associate director for the Institute for Latino Studies (ILS) said Notre Dame made strides in the last 12 years toward a more diverse student body. ILS opened in 1999, and students and faculty look to the institute to increase awareness of Latino culture on campus. 

“If you look at the U.S. Catholic Church, it’s becoming increasingly Latino,” Brown-Gort 
said. “One out of every three members is Latino, and under 35, one out of every two are 
see LATINO/page 4 



Professor given Sheedy Excellence in Teaching award 
with think well of you. It’s not like in late antique and early medieval energy of students.” “Probably most people suppose 

By SAM STRYKER 

winning a history. The Sheedy Award is pre-Noble said he has always there was this blinding moment of 
News Editor 
contest, ” 

sented annually to an outstanding enjoyed reading and history, and inspiration, and it didn’t happen Noble said. 
professor in the College of Arts these passions led to his career as that why,” he said. “It was a slow When Professor Thomas F.X. “I didn’t 
and Letters. a professor. process.” Noble heard Notre Dame would apply for 
Noble began teaching at Notre “I often kid with students, ‘My When he gives career advice to present him with the 2011 Sheedy this. It came 
Dame in Jan. 2001. He said even mother dropped me off at kinder-pupils, Noble said he tells stu-Excellence in Teaching Award as a com-
after 37 years of teaching over garten and I never left,’” he said. dents to combine their passions April 13, he said his first emotion plete sur­
7,000 students he finds inspira-“I’ve always been an academic.” with their skills. was pure astonishment. prise, a wel­
tion from their vigor. One of his college professors “Figure out what you really Once he overcame the shock, come sur­
“I’ve spent my whole adult life pulled him aside and told him he want to do, and figure out what Noble said he felt appreciation for prise.” with students. I think that keeps could be a history professor, push-you’re good at and try to find a those who nominated him. Noble, who you young, it keeps you grounded. ing him towards the profession, way to bring those two together,” 
“It’s enormously gratifying to serves as the chair of the It keeps you excited about things,” Noble said. His career decision think the people you work for and Department of History, specializes he said. “You can just draw on the was not made instantly, though. see NOBLE/page 5 




Engineeringstudentstakeflight 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
A team of Notre Dame engi­neering students put months of hard work into flight this week­end when they brought their remote-controlled airplane to the 2011 Design/Build/Fly com­petition in Tucson, Ariz and fin­ished in 28th place. 

Sophomore Matt Kudija was among six undergraduate mem­bers of the 20-person design team that traveled to Tucson Foundation included 96 teams was composed primarily of Thursday. The 15th annual com-from universities around the sophomore engineering stu­petition sponsored by the country. dents. American Institute of Kudija said the team’s place-Aeronautics and Astronautics ment reflected the fact that it see PLANE/page 5 


Edward Larkin named valedictorian for 2011 
Observer Staff Report 
Edward Larkin, a biological sci­ences major from East Lansing, Mich., was named valedictorian of the Class of 2011 Tuesday, accord­ing to a University press release. 
Larkin will deliver the valedictory address during Commencement ceremonies May 22 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Larkin acheived a 4.0 grade point average, according to the release. He will also earn a supple­mentary major in classical civiliza­tion. Larkin is an active member of the Haiti Working Group at Notre Dame, and he writes a bi-weekly column for The Observer on the intersection of science, technology and society. 
After graduation, Larkin will spend the summer in Olympia, Greece, to study cross-cultural interaction through Harvard University. He will then spend one year at the London School of Economics to receive a Master of Science degree in philosophy and public policy before attending the Yale University School of Medicine. 
Michelle Maurin, a mathematics major from Houston, will offer the Commencement invocation. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Chapel crawl comes to close page 4  Viewpoint page 6  ’Limitless’ movie review  page 8  Men’s Lacrosse No. 1 in nation page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 20, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE AN IN OMERCIAL PRODUCT WHAT WOULD YOU BE?
THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Anna Boarini Cory Bernard Jillian Barwick Katie Heit 
Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Troy Mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 
Dan Jacobs Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Group reports record trash haul from NJ beaches 
SANDY HOOK, N.J. – A record amount of trash was picked up along New Jersey beaches last year, including a kitchen sink. 
Clean Ocean Action has been doing beach sweeps for 25 years and says in a report to be released Tuesday that more than 475,000 pieces of litter were removed from the shore­line last year. 
They included a bag of heroin, a 10-gallon gas tank, five pairs of under­wear, a duck caller and a plastic cow, in addition to the sink. 
There also were four 
Albert Garcia  Bryan Dimas  Grace Welte  Lydia Baek  Tam Nguyen  
junior  sophomore  freshman  graduate student  sophomore  
Off Campus  Stanford  Farley  O’Hara-Grace  Duncan  

“BROflex.” “Billy Mays’ “A shake “Food “A Snuggie, OxiClean.” weight!” processor.” because it’s time to get cozy.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

televisions, a plastic Easter egg with $3 in it, a fire extinguisher, a toi­let seat lid and an MP3 player. 
Also found were 84 whole tires, nearly 1,400 aerosol cans and more than 1,300 strands of fishing line, which can kill sea life that gets tangled in it. 
Lost goat wanders into Idaho music store 
AMMON, Idaho – Stop me if you’ve heard this one: A goat walks into a music store. 
It sounds like the start of a bad joke, but that’s exactly what happened at the Piano Gallery in the southeastern Idaho town of Ammon. 
KIFI -TV reports the goat followed a woman and her child into the store on Monday. Maybe it was looking for some sheeeet music. 
Clerk Lorri Bridges says the goat was just adorable. The staff cor­ralled it in a bathroom until animal control arrived. 
The goat, dubbed Beethoven for its appar­ent love of music, is being held at the Idaho Falls Animal Shelter. 
If it isn ’t claimed, someone is ready to adopt it. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Pauline Yu, President of the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) will be giving a talk entitled “State of the Humanities” at 3:30 p.m. today in the Eck Center Auditorium. The talk will be immediately follwed by a reception in the Eck Center Atrium. 
Professor Kelly Hooley-Bockelmann from Vanderbuilt University will be offering a lecture titled “Physics Colloquium: Growing the Lightest Supermassive Black Holes: An Nbody Mechanic’s Perspective.” located in Room 118 in Nieuwland Science Hall from 4 to 5 p.m. this evening. 
Robin Kirkpatrick, Professor of Italian and English Literatures and Fellow of Robinson College at the University of Cambridge will be giving a lecture from 5 to 
6:30 p.m. tonight on Shakespeare and Dante enti­tled “Turning to a Joy...” in Room 202 of the Hesburgh Library. 
Robin Kirkpatrick will also be guiding a collective of Notre Dame and local artists to deep­en exploration of the relation­ship between divinity and com­edy as found in Dante and Shakespeare. This perform­ance will be held in The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center from 8 to 9:30 p,m. tonight. 
Tonight, Howard Hall will have their last Mass of their 30 day chapel crawl at 10 p.m. in the Log Chapel. Root beer floats will follow at the Coleman Morse Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section 
of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



44 43 HIGH 5351 5457
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


38 32 LOW 3745 4346 






Wesnesday, April 20, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SMC student to showcase College fashion sense 
brush with fasion as a 14-year­ said she will take her experi- London.”  received nearly 50,000 views in  
By JILLIAN BARWICK  old while walking through her  ences in high-end fashion and  Style Gurus post photos on  roughly one week.  
News Writer  local mall. A scout for Elite  share the styles she witnesses  CollegeFashionista.com  of  While Grasso is just beginning  
Model Management expressed  as a Saint Mary’s student.  trends they see at their schools.  her  journey  with  
This summer, Saint Mary’s  interest  in  Grasso  and  her  “CollegeFashionista.com pro- Beginning in May, Grasso will  CollegeFashionista.com, she  
senior Christina Grasso will  friend and encouraged them to  vides links to all featured cam- post photos that she will collect  said she enjoyed her experi­ 
highlight women at Saint Mary’s  investigate Elite when they  puses, so beginning in May,  in the next few weeks on the  ences thus far in the fashion  
as trendsetters in the larger  were older.  Saint Mary’s will be among  campus on the College’s page  industry.  
world of fashion as a Style Guru  In years to follow, Grasso par- these schools and the public  along with discussions of popu­ “Fashion is one of the most  
for CollegeFashionista.com.  ticpated in multiple internships  can access information about  lar styles. In the fall, junior  competitive industries to pur­ 
“As a college student in the  with Elite. She said these posi­ style here at SMC,” Grasso said.  Caitlin Guffy will assume the  sue. It is very tough, extremely  
M i d w e s t ,  tions gave her the  “It speaks volumes about our  Style Guru internship position  demanding, and quite eccentric.  
my  access  opportunity  to  campus because it’s  a  fairly  in Grasso’s place.  But, if you live and breathe  
to the fash­ion industry  “Collegefashionista.com  attend New York Fashion Week  competitive screening process.” Amy Levin, founder and cre­ “I chose Christina to be a Style Guru because I believe  fashion and are prepared to work hard under pressure,  
is limited to the Internet most of the t i m e , ”  is for real girls and guys in college focusing on real life fashion, not  twice and see col­lections from top i n t e r n a t i o n a l designers.  atived director of CollegeFashionista.com, will be Grasso’s editor. Levin said she receives 30  that she has a good understand­ing for fashion, a good eye for what is in style, and excellent photography skills. She is also  learn fast, stand by your convic­tions, persevere, and still love fashion at the end of each day, it can be done,” Grasso said.  
Grasso said. “I am so inspired by  just collections from Paris and London.”  “I have seen fashion in its raw form and learned  applications per week from people for the Style Guru posi­tion. Students reach out to the  very tapped into social media like Twitter, Facebook and Tumblr,” Levin said. “I really  Grasso said she hopes to con­tinue to work in fashion after she leaves her position with  
great street style blogs  Amy Levin  so much from my interactions with  website from schools already listed on the site as well as new  like bringing something new to the site, which is why I picked  CollegeFashionista.com. “I am still nowhere near my  
as they cap- founder and creative director  many of fashion’s  schools that want to be recog- Christina and Saint Mary’s to  ultimate goal of working as the  
ture every­day people  collegefashionista.com  elite,” Grasso said. “Sometimes I have  nized for their outstanding fashion sense.  launch a page in May. While we have mostly bigger campuses,  fashion director or marketing editor for a major fashion publi­ 
with unbri­ to  pinch  myself  “I felt that no one was really  Saint Mary’s will definitely add  cation in New York, but whatev­ 
dled  self- because I am this  addressing the college demo- something  different  to  er happens, I could not be more  
expression in their  sense  of  little Catholic girl from the mid- graphic for fashion trends,”  CollegeFashionista.com.”  excited to continue my journey  
dress.”  dle of nowhere experiencing all  Levin said.  CollegeFashionista.com also  in the fashion industry as I gen­ 
CollegeFashionista.com is a  of this excitement. I feel like  “CollegeFashionista.com is for  launches video interviews with  uinely enjoy the ride,” she said.  
website that showcases trends  Alice in Wonderland.”  real girls and guys in college  major stylists in the fashion  
on  college campuses. Grasso  As  a  Style  Guru  for  focusing on real life fashion, not  industry, Levin said. The videos  Contact Jillian Barwick at  
said she experienced her first  CollegeFashionista.com, Grasso  just collections from Paris and  have been successful so far and  jbarwi013@saintmarys.edu  


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 20, 2011 

Howard Hall hosts month-long Chapel Crawl 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Freshmen Justin Sena has vis­ited 30 chapels all over campus in the past month as a part of Howard Hall’s Chapel Crawl. 
“This event is a testament to the Catholic identity of the uni­versity that there exists a group of students who take time out of there day for a celebration of the Eucharist and fellowship,” Sena said. “I enjoyed experienc­ing the fellowship of the other ‘Chapel Crawlers’ as we jour­neyed on our pilgrimage togeth­er.” 
Sena said that the chapel crawl was a great way to spend time reflecting on the penitential season of Lent and spend less time on unproductive activities, like Facebook. 
Former Howard Hall President MaryEllen Keneally wanted to create an event that reached out to the campus at large. 
“We wanted to have an event 


Latino 
continued from page 1 
Latino.” 
He said this population growth is one of the main rea­sons Notre Dame should be put­ting a greater emphasis on Latino culture on campus. 
“[ILS] is here to help the University,” Brown-Gort said. “We’re here to be a resource for the University.” 
ILS researches basic issues surrounding the Latino popula­tion and provides opportunities for the community to learn more about the culture, Brown-Gort said. 
“We provide cultural compe­tency — we put what people are studying into context,” he said. “We also aim to provide a sense of community for Latino and Latino-focused people on cam­pus.” 
In 2008, University President Fr. John Jenkins reviewed two reports about diversity on cam­pus, and Notre Dame published its Diversity Response. 
“As a Catholic university, we at Notre Dame believe every human being possesses the dig­nity of being made in God’s image, and every culture reflects God’s grandeur,” the Diversity Statement said. “Diversity enriches our social interactions and intellectual lives by exposing all of us to approaches and frames of refer­ence that challenge our unex­amined assumptions.” 
One of the biggest assets to Latino students is Latino Freshman Retreat hosted by Campus Ministry, Medina said. Held in the fall of freshman year, the retreat helps first-year Latino students build communi­ty and friendships, according to the Campus Ministry website. 
Sophomore Stephanie Aguilera said the Latino Freshman Retreat provided the that would involve the whole campus,” Keneally said. 
The organizers in Howard thought a chapel crawl would encourage daily Mass atten­dance and be a fun opportunity for students to pray together. 
“The name helped make it fun,” Keneally said. “It also helped to attract a different crowd to go to daily Mass.” 
Keneally said she and the other organizers talked to dorm presidents and consulted the Campus Ministry Mass schedule to plan the month-long event. Rosary at the Grotto and mass at the Log Chapel were included in the schedule along with a Spanish mass at St. Edward’s Hall and a Taize prayer service in Walsh Hall. 
“We wanted to go when dorms were having their fun Masses. We went to Dillon for their ‘Milkshake Mass’ and Sorin for the ‘Chili Mass,’” she said. 
The Chapel Crawl gave stu­dents a glimpse inside the vari­ous chapels scattered across 

closest campus experience to what she is used to in her home life and culture. At the retreat, undergraduates are grouped into “familias” with “madres” and “padres” to establish the feeling of a cultural family between older and younger stu­dents. 
“It’s modeled after our actual culture,” she said. “You get put into families. [The campus Latino culture] is like having a family here. You look after each other.” 
Aguilera, who lives in Dallas, Texas, said she found a substi­tute family on campus through MEChA. Aguilera will serve as next year’s secretary for the Diversity Council and is current­ly trying to establish a Latino Honors Society. 
“I grew closer to my culture by moving away from the bor­der,” she said. 
Aguilera said she also attends a Spanish Mass on Sundays at 
1:30 p.m. in St. Edward’s Hall. 
“[These Masses] are much more intimate,” she said. “Instead of shaking hands, you get a hug and kiss on the cheek.” 
Before attending Notre Dame, Aguilera said she also attended Spring Visitation, a weekend-long event held through Undergraduate Admissions when prospective minority stu­dents are invited to spend time on campus with a host student. 
Junior Amanda Meza is a multicultural recruitment coor­dinator for Undergraduate Admissions. In this position, she works at recruiting high-achiev­ing minority students from across the country. 
“During the fall semester, we concentrate on calling thou­sands of these potential Notre Dame students by encouraging them to apply as well as answering any of their ques­tions regarding the school or college in general,” she said. 
Meza said her family’s experi-Notre Dame’s campus. Keneally said she loved seeing the differ­ent chapels on campus and experiencing the unique beauty in each spot. 
“Its really interesting to see how different they all are. Even chapels that were built around the same time are different,” Keneally said. 
Howard Hall hosted the first Mass in the 30-day chapel crawl. 
Keneally said seeing her hall’s chapel filled with so many peo­ple was a special moment. 
“We had no idea how it would go, but it was lots of fun and about 75 people showed up,” she said. 
To add to the chapel crawl, students were given a card to count their attendance through­out the month, Keneally said. Students receive a stamp on their card for every Mass they attended. Anyone with more than 12 stamps can enter a raf­fle after the last Mass. 
“The Mass card was our rec­
ences have defined “Latino” for her. 
“I am the youngest of three daughters and the first to move away for college. My parents left their homes in Mexico to start a better life here in the United States,” she said. “I must say that their struggle to offer my sisters and I a chance for higher education has been my driving motivation for a better future. … It is almost a tangible love of family and an innate pride for our culture of perse­verance and strength.” 
Meza said she sometimes feels isolated as a minority despite the strength of community at Notre Dame. 
“Though Notre Dame is one of tor’s idea,” Keneally said. “We really wanted a lot of attendance and this was a way to get people to come. Plus it’s a fun sou­venir.” 
The final Mass will be held tonight at 10 p.m. in the Log Chapel. After Mass, Howard Hall will serve root beer floats in the Coleman Morse Center. 
“The last Mass is an opportu­nity to see a pretty cool place,” 
the most national schools, I feel that the majority of the students on campus still wind up think­ing exactly the same. I am not just talking about diversity in the sense of race and ethnicity either, but also diversity in thought and beliefs,” she said. “As a Latina, I at times feel sti­fled in my classes and can’t help but think there is no way that my voice or what I have to say will change what they think. The problem is, no one else sees it. It is a shared struggle with not only my community, but also other minority communities.” 
Medina said the Notre Dame community could only change once dialogue began between everyone on campus, no matter Keneally said. 
While this was the first year for the event, Keneally hopes it will not be the last. 
“I was a really easy event to put on, it was fun and it’s a good thing to do during Lent,” She said. “Hopefully it will become a regular event.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
what cultural background stu­dents claim. 
“We don’t put on our events for ourselves,” Medina said. “We’re trying to educate every­one else. If you see an event advertised, we want you to come.” 
The goal of outreach groups is to end ignorance about other cultures, Rosales said. 
“Being more aware of what we do works to end stereo­types,” he said. “We would like everyone to not be ignorant. Ignorance is the No. 1 reason there’s bad blood between peo­ple nowadays.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



Wednesday, April 20, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
material value, they’ve got moral ing the world over to good peo-ple that I meet who are connected back from my leave I am really 
value.” ple.” to this place in lots of different excited for that,” Noble said. “I 

Noble 
continued from page 1 
he said. “Do you have the fire in the belly? Do you really want to do this?” 
Noble said he urges students not to base career decisions on what they will earn in terms of money, but instead on happiness. He said while being a history pro­fessor has taken a lot of hard work, he never regrets his career choice. 
“I get up everyday and I am excited. I don’t think everybody can say that,” Noble said. “There is a payoff. The pleasures that come along with this don’t have 


Plane 
continued from page 1 
“A lot of the teams we competed against are in senior design class­es at their schools, so we were a little outmatched on the design and detail analysis aspects of the competition,” he said. “Our goal was to create a plane that would successfully complete all three missions.” 
Kudija said each plane flown in the competition had to meet a specific set of requirements and successfully complete three mis­sions. The missions tested the plane for speed and the ability to carry a payload of steel or golf balls. 
The balsa and plywood plane also had to fit inside a suitcase when broken down into its com­ponents and be reassembled in five minutes or less during the 
Winning the award is an immense honor, Noble said. 
“If you have been around Notre Dame any length of time, you know this is really a wonderful award. It’s very prestigious award, a very humbling award,” he said. “You think of all the great people who have won this award, and you think you have been put in that club — that is pretty spe­cial.” 
Seeing future leaders as they begin their careers is a favorite aspect of his job, Noble said. 
“One of the things that teaching young people over all these years has done is make me optimistic or confident,” he said. “We’re hand-
competition, Kudja said. The team used computer-aided design (CAD) software to design the plane. 
“We were given four attempts to complete the three missions, but on the first attempt, our suit­case dimensions were too big,” Kudija said. “But I was really proud because the team was able to come together at the last minute to overcome that obstacle and make the remaining three attempts successful.” 
Kudija said the team faced a serious obstacle when their origi­nal prototype plane was severely damaged in a test crash just a week and a half prior to the com­petition. 
“We had been working on designing the plane since before Christmas, and we started build­ing it after winter break,” Kudija said. “Then we had to rebuild the plane and make design changes to it after the crash, but we had 
Noble said the culture of stu­dents at the University is unlike anywhere he has taught. 
“There is an ethos here that is different from anyplace else. There is this very powerful sense of family,” he said. “People talk about the Notre Dame family. You’d have to be utterly without senses not to feel it.” 
Interacting with other members of the University family has been the most defining aspect of his experience as a professor at Notre Dame, Noble said. 
“I can’t think of one moment that just stands out to me, but the picture that kept playing on my mind’s screen was all these peo­
serious concerns about the origi­nal prototype being able to be built in time anyway.” 
Sophomore Greg Obee felt the team’s work under pressure pro­vided him with a unique learning opportunity. 
“It was definitely a big learning experience, especially because it’s our first year, most of us are sophomores and we didn’t have a lot of experience,” he said. “We were very happy to finish 28th, and we learned a lot that we can take to the competition next year.” 
The group received funds to participate in the competition from the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. Professor Robert Nelson served as the project advi­sor along with two graduate stu­dents, Kudija said. 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
ways, whether they are alums, parents, students,” Noble said. 
Noble directed the Medieval Institute for his first eight years at Notre Dame, then became chair of the Department of History three years ago. After an upcom­ing year of leave, he said he antic­ipates returning to teach at the University. 
“I’ve never been just a professor at Notre Dame, so when I come have a couple of ideas for new classes I might teach.” 
Noble said he has reexamined his career after winning the award, and still appreciates the opportunity he has been granted. 
“In some ways, I can’t believe people pay me to do this,” he said. “It’s a real privilege.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, April 20, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Taco Bell’s delivery 
There are certain eternally-per­plexing questions that have troubled humanity since the inception of rational thought. What is the ultimate nature of reality? What is the pur­
pose of our exis­tence? And perhaps most confusing — why doesn’t Taco Bell deliver? 
All of us in our post-parietal haze have asked this age-old question, and all of us 


have been left Matthew Robison empty-handed and hungry, Sports 
Production
pining for the warm, zesty 
Editor 

touch of a cheesy gordita crunch and a steak quesadilla. 
So why must we be forbidden that which we so desire? Sure, we could just get in a car and drive to Taco Bell. But with the modern conven­ience of delivery, why exert the extra effort? 
From a safety standpoint, there are positive externalities to the creation of a delivery system for Taco Bell. The majority of Taco Bell’s latenight consumers have been consuming bev­erages or other substances that may have them at a level of impairment that hinders them from properly operating a vehicle. Therefore, Taco Bell’s delivery drivers would be tak­ing a considerable number of unsafe drivers off the road. Also, with ener­gy prices skyrocketing and the impact of car emissions becoming better understood, having a driver reach several customers in one sweep would be a much more efficient option than all those customers mak­ing individual trips to the drive-thru. 
Further, Taco Bell cannot pretend to be oblivious to the fact that they are serving this type of population. They have an entire marketing cam­paign directed toward them. By advertising the “fourthmeal” latenight option with drive-thru win­dows open until 4 a.m. or later, Taco Bell is playing right into the hands of a food-craving, latenight snacking market segment. 
I can understand why Taco Bell and its parent company Yum! Brands would not want to associate their marketing campaigns (or their prod­ucts in general) with serving an ine­briated population, but they cannot deny that they’ve already done so with their “fourthmeal” campaign. 
So, to better serve their most loyal customers, Taco Bell needs to reeval­uate their current practice of not delivering. The positive social bene­fits seem to outweigh any negative impact that a delivery system could have. Taco Bell will see greater rev­enues as they will gain sales from those customers who choose not to drive, either because they know they should not be on the road or because they do not have access to a vehicle. 
Once Taco Bell wisens up and puts some gentlemen in a fleet of mid­1990s Japanese hatchbacks to deliver their precious pseudo-Mexican cui­sine, all will seem right in the world. Then, we can all go back to ponder­ing the other eternal perplexities of the universe. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

Health outside the hospital: Medicine in the 21st century 
Healthcare policy occupied a central position in the national discourse dur­ing the reform efforts of 2009 and 2010. That it has maintained this position more than a year later reflects a variety of factors. 
First, no one was truly satisfied with the compromise that culminated in the Affordable Care Act. Liberals bemoaned the lack of any real 


Edward Larkin 
push for a sin-gle-payer sys­tem, or even a 
Scientific 
Notation
government-

run public insurance option. Conservatives decried the bill as an entrenchment of the status quo 
— a ruinously expensive entitlement plan that does nothing to fundamen­tally address the skewed incentives that are driving healthcare costs ever upwards in a seemingly unstoppable march. 
Second, in addition to the acrimony over the ACA, Medicare (and health­care more generally) figures promi­nently in the new national preoccupa­tion — the national debt. 
Healthcare is an incredibly tricky issue to deal with from a policy front. Would free market mechanisms reduce healthcare costs? Most likely. But healthcare resists the alluringly passive logic of market mechanics. Many of us have an innate feeling that healthcare is an inalienable right, something to which all citizens, espe­cially of a developed nation, deserve access. We reject the notion that patients should have to decide between bankruptcy and the best can­cer treatment available. We hope that our culture has progressed to a point of refinement and civility enough to value making sure people can at least enjoy their health — the most basic, yet most important pillar of happi­ness. 
And so we are stuck. There’s no per­fect policy prescription waiting to be plucked out of the ether. Stanford University physician Walter Bortz goes so far as to say in his new book “Next Medicine” that current medicine is “irrelevant,” and claims that there exists a “basic mismatch between human biology and capitalism.” 
Quotes such as these make the situ­ation seem quite grim indeed. All sorts of solutions have been proposed by technocrats — accountable care organizations (ACOs) to better coordi­nate care between specialists and to put an end to the ruinous incentives engendered by the fee-for-service sys­tem; greater training of primary care physicians; insurance exchanges. Yet each of these solutions leaves a vague feeling of dissatisfaction. You can put lipstick on a pig, but it’s still a pig. 
There is one cause for great hope 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“They always talkwho never think.” 
Matthew Prior English diplomat & poet 
amidst the bleakness: information technology. 
But how can information technology possibly bend the cost curve, especial­ly given the fact that expensive tech­nologies are one of the main contribu­tory factors to rising costs? The answer is in the prevention of hospital visits, and more broadly, the preven­tion of illness itself. Developments in information technology promise not only to improve care in hospitals, but to keep patients out of hospitals in the first place. This is the goal of 21st century medicine: prevention. In this paradigm, going to the hospital in the first place is a failure of the health­care system, no matter how superbly coordinated the care once there. 
This is a grand idea: We’re talking about not only the typical refrains about information technology in healthcare (electronic medical records), but also using IT to funda­mentally alter the way we interact with sickness and health. 
Imagine that you feel sick. If the dis­comfort is severe enough, you’ll even­tually go to the hospital. The doctor will see you, diagnose the problem, recommend treatment and you’ll leave, minus $100 or more if you visit the emergency room (most of which you don’t see, since you only deal with the insurance co-pay). 
Inject information technology into the equation. You type your symptoms into an app on your smart phone or computer. Computers immediately analyze gigantic data sets of similar patient presentations (Columbia University is already attempting to incorporate IBM’s “Watson” technolo­gy from game show fame on Jeopardy into the clinic) and doctors remotely give a preliminary diagnosis. For some cases, this will be very straight­forward. The doctor sends an elec­tronic prescription, you go to the pharmacy, get your medicine and that’s that. No hospital visit required. There’s already a name for this move­ment: mobile health, or mHealth. 
This conception of healthcare is very attractive. But the above example is still reactionary — you get sick first and then take action. The real seduc­tion of information technology is its capability to prevent illness in the first place. Bell’s law & Moore’s law dictate that computers will continually become smaller and more powerful. 
Researchers at the University of Michigan recently designed the first complete millimeter-scale computer device: a pressure sensor for glauco­ma patients that can be implanted into the eye. It contains a radio that communicates with the outside world, letting clinicians know when pressure in the eye reaches high levels. Imagine this paradigm applied to other fields of health — we could have tiny devices that recognize character­istics of disease or sickness in our bodies with wireless communication capabilities. Before we even con­sciously realize we are sick, our com­puter, wirelessly connected to the devices inside our body, tells us some­thing is wrong. Prevention becomes a whole lot easier. 

Medicine is a funny profession. Its ultimate goal is to make itself irrele­vant — to eliminate sickness and cure diseases. Think about the inherent oddness of that. It’s one of the few occupations where participants actively strive towards — and hope — that their craft will one day be unnec­essary. It’s an idea as masochistic as it is noble. Medicine is currently at a bizarre point in its history, its future densely clouded with uncertainty. 
On one side, analysts foresee an upcoming shortage of physicians as the population ages, counseling med­ical schools to expand enrollment. Others believe that advances in biotechnology and nanotechnology will essentially end medicine as we know it — Ray Kurzweil predicts that in the 2030s we will have tiny little “nanobots” coursing through our bloodstream and keeping us healthy. Others think that we will eventually be able to swallow a few pills of robot­ic parts that can assemble inside our body and perform surgery. 
These ideas are both highly specula­tive and controversial, but they are indicative of a larger uncertainty in the medical community. Where are we going? Will medicine bankrupt us? Where will advances in biotechnology and robotics take us? What will doc­tors do in fifty years? 
Regardless of the larger questions surrounding where medicine is head­ed, true reform should strive for bold­ness, for a visionary rethinking of the way in which we deal with health and sickness. The system we have in place is a product of the 20th century — a time when diagnostics were in their nascent phases, the intricacies of dis­ease were mostly shrouded and “internet” was an unknown word. We are moving rapidly into 21st century biomedicine, with further refinements in our control of genetics, further advances in both the accessibility and scale of computing and further preci­sion of diagnostic tools. These devel­opments will allow us to conceptualize medicine not as a battle against sick­ness, but a battle to maintain health. Using expensive 21st century tools in a 20th century system — getting sick and then going to the hospital — is unsustainable. As technology advances, so too must medicine. This crucial paradigm shift is necessary to extend equitable and affordable care to everyone. Call it the Affordable Care Age. 
Edward Larkin is a senior majoring in biological sciences and classical civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A preoccupation with the futurenot only prevents us from seeing thepresent as it is but often prompts usto rearrange the past.” 
Eric Hoffer American writer & philosopher 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 20, 2011 page 7


At a time in the semester when I know that I ought to be focusing on my papers and exams, an email arrived in my inbox Monday morning that I could not ignore (“Message from Fr. John Jenkins,” April Philip Langthorne 
18). Reviewing in disbelief the Guest press release Columnist on the University’s investigation into the death of Declan Sullivan last October, and then the full report with similar incredulity, I could not help but think back to the Charlie Weiss era and his ill-fated proclamation, “9-3 is not good enough.” 
Following the internal investigation led by Executive Vice President John Afleck-Graves (the appropriateness of which I still contest on the grounds of a serious conflict of interest), the four factors that the University portends as the “primary” causes of the acci­dent include one regarding the weather, two regarding the nature and condition of the lift at the time and a fourth describing the “staff members’ lack of knowledge regard­ing on-the-field wind speeds.” 
I have a hard time accepting char­acterizations of the wind as “sudden and unexpected” in the press release and “unusual” in the report, given that the campus was in fact in the midst of a meteorologically foreseen windstorm at the time (one would be hard-pressed to qualify rain in a rain­storm as “unexpected” or snow in a snowstorm as “unusual”). Even still, my concern with these materials extends far more deeply in that I 
Is this good enough? 
believe they reveal a frightening resistance on the part of the University administration to address this tragedy in any meaningful way. 
Consider the recommendations of the investigation report, which, as the press release quickly points out, our heroic leader in the President’s Office has already accepted. A few high­lights: 
Item I: Adoption of Specific Wind Limit. Is there a reason why the University had not adopted the 28 mph guideline of the International Standards Organization before? 
Item IV: Appointment of Athletic Department Safety Contacts. Does this mean that nobody was responsible for the safety of students 40 feet in the air? 
Item V: Establishment of Practice-Safety Protocol. What happens if the protocol fails, and what will be the University’s response to future viola­tions? 
In an environment in which stu­dents are not (formally) allowed to drive even their own cars to University-approved events, I cannot believe that the Office of Risk Management and Safety had not con­sidered the possibility of a fall acci­dent before October 2010. In fact, I know that they had, because I myself was trained on a lift back in the day. 
So my question becomes, “Why was the Athletic Department, the football program especially, allowed to oper­ate under the radar, using lifts that had not been registered with Risk Management, defining their own usage standards and all, without des­ignating specific individuals whose responsibility it was to approve stu­dent use of the equipment each time a student left the safety of the ground?” (For a discussion of the diffusion of responsibility this situation may have also created, see Anita Kelly’s Psychology Today post, “How a Notre Dame Student Could Die So Senselessly,” Nov. 8) Was it because of Director of Football Video and Film’s Tim Collins’ 20th year of service in his current role, or because of the monogram he was accorded in 2004? 
In no case, however, does this lack of proper individuals and workplace practices mitigate what happened to Declan Sullivan. Instead, it renders his death all the more grievous, and we must ask ourselves what concrete actions the University has taken in the wake of his death to demonstrate its recommitment to student safety. And the answer, as related in the investigation report, apart from $77,500 paid to IOSHA (and undoubt­edly an undisclosed settlement with the Sullivan family), is a resounding silence. 
All we have as students are recom­mendations and talking points. And promises. And apology-laden emails from Fr. Jenkins, likely having passed first through the Office of the General Counsel, just to be sure. Heads bowed down and wrists held out for a slap. But the implications for every single one of us here at the University are enormous. 
What if students in a chem or physics lab were let into a restricted area by someone who should have known about the heightened danger and an accident occurred? Would that person be fired? Based on precedent, we cannot say. 
What if student workers in the din­ing hall were uncomfortable with a piece of equipment that seemed to be malfunctioning, were told to use it anyway and subsequently got hurt? Would the person who was responsi­ble for keeping the equipment proper­ly maintained continue to work for the University? No idea. 
What if students in a theatre pro­duction were hurt by unsafe scenery, or athletes were injured by equipment that had not been set up correctly or students using University vehicles experienced an accident due to improper maintenance? Would the people responsible be released, to make room for real change, or would we grieve, gather at the Basilica, write some letters to the Viewpoint section and then proceed to largely ignore the underlying problem? 
All the evidence suggests that noth­ing would change. And although the above situations are highly improba­ble, and although the departments above all have excellent safety records, we have to remember that Athletics did too before October 2010. 
I therefore encourage all members of the Notre Dame family, and espe­cially the students who like me, wore pins bearing the initials “DS” into the stands for the Tulsa game last season, to read the contents of the press release at the minimum and ask our­selves, “Is this really good enough for us?” 
Philip Langthorne is a senior. He can be contacted at plangtho@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

University response to Declan Sullivan tragedy 
Careful analysis of the report reveals that a low ranking official — with insufficient information on the severity of the weather — authorized an action. Lacking severe weather protocol or senior advisement, the low ranking official’s clearance resulted in a Notre Dame student dying. In official statements following the tragic event, Notre Dame’s administration publically committed to taking any and all steps to prevent a tragedy like this from ever hap­pening again. 
Unfortunately, the above description aptly portrays sepa­rate events that led to Notre Dame students dying. In January 1991, the Midwest was in the midst of a severe blizzard. After a swim meet in Chicago, a call to the University was made requesting advisement on whether the women’s swim team should wait out the snow in Chicago overnight or come home to South Bend. The team was instructed to come home. Shortly before arrival the bus hit an ice patch and repeatedly flipped. Colleen Hipp and Megan Beeler perished, while Haley Scott was tem­porarily paralyzed. 
In 2010, unnamed football team managers viewed a weather service report during a day of high winds. Their untrained analysis led them to conclude that the conditions were “unremarkable.” They were further aware that the staff preferred outdoor practice, and they chose to have Declan Sullivan film practice from a scissor lift. With that decision, approximately 20 years later Notre Dame suf­fered a second preventable tragedy. 
On Notre Dame’s Snow Day in February this year, Business Professor Jim Davis left his house prior to the University announcing school cancellation. Professor Davis’ trip to school took in excess of an hour due to icy road con­ditions. He made it to school to find no students and trav­elled home safely that night. 
My questions to the University are, “What specific improvements to the school’s severe weather action plan are being made to engage the challenges caused by South Bend’s often adverse weather conditions?” 
“Does having tragedy only once every 20 years, with countless risks taken in between, represent a significant enough savings to justify not spending the funding required to put in place a system protecting the students and employees of the University?” 
At this moment, I have not seen a satisfactory answer to the first question. Moreover, I don’t believe the administra­tion or anyone believes the answer to the second question should be, “Yes.” 
My suggestions are simple, expensive and implementable. 
— 
Create a position or further broaden the responsibili­ties of an existing Campus Severe Weather Advisor. 

— 
Qualify this advisor as a safety expert pertaining to severe weather and severe weather activities. 

— 
Put in place parameters to describe “severe weather.” Have these parameters audited to ensure they are suffi­cient. 

— 
Task the weather advisor with careful daily analysis of weather conditions. During periods of severe weather, have this expert utilize technology to communicate advisement on best practices to students of the University. 

— 
Debrief the expert immediately on University sanc­tioned activities whenever weather classified as “severe” arises. These activities will include sports and sports trav­el, campus events, construction and, likely, much more. 

— 
Require University endorsed activities to submit risk mitigation plans during severe weather. 

— 
Have advisor or advisors review and sign off on all submitted plans as sound. 

— 
Put in place clear consequences when this process is not followed. 


Certainly, these steps provide only a basic framework. However, the steps do create an actual strategy to better ensure this type of incident “never happens again.” Without a plan, Notre Dame’s promises for prevention ring hollow, and future students are at a greater risk of some­thing like this happening again. 
Michael Martin 
grad student off campus April 19 
The Observer 




Scene
page 8 Wednesday, April 20, 2011 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Wednesday, April 20, 2011 page 9 

Rain is an utter disaster on the day you get your new TOMS in the mail. Yes, gentle readers, I received a brand-spanking-new pair of TOMS for my birthday and they arrived on a day rid­den with raindrops. How am I supposed to flaunt my eco-friendly, socially con­scious, trendy, com­fortable kicks when any venture beyond my dorm requires fording Lake O’Neill? I bemoan my current state! Oh, woe are my feet! Woe, I say! 
I will, however, concede that rain is somewhat poetic, especially at this time of year. Spring-cleaning washes away the old, the rusty and the dusty. It forces us to re-exam­ine everything — from our course load (finals on the horizon!) to our relationships (summer is coming, or more pertinently, graduation). 
When April begins to turn, gen­eral academic panic begins to set in, but it always rides hand-in­hand with renewal. I worked out for the first time in a month (a month!) yesterday, after spending the weekend on a quest to see the top of my desk, which has been stealthily guarded by books, bananas and unopened mail for a few weeks. It was a tough job, but my healthy, cleanly mentality made me far more poised to meet the fast-approaching scholastic onslaught (and I’m sure my room­mate appreciates it, too). So bah humbug, rain. But at least its sym­bol of seasonal renewal got me cleaning. 

So where does the poetry of rain really get me? Though I am frus­trated by it, it has left me better off. Which is, of course, the back­handed reality of poetry. Poetry riddles our lives, from the lyrics of songs on U93 to the hymns we sing in dorm Mass. Chances are, at some point in your Domer career, you’ve been forced to analyze poetry. (Or, if you’re an English major, you “received welcome invi­tation to revel in the structural complexity of a well-ordered ver­nacular.” See, now everybody’s happy.) 
I have a friend who I was con­vinced was incapable of under­standing poetry. Early last semes­ter at twilight, I said the trees in front of my dorm looked like some­one had uprooted them and stuck their heads in the ground, leaving their roots sticking up. He said that was silly, because they were trees. I was horribly affronted, and proceeded to explain how the lack of a single poetic bone in his body would leave him ugly and alone. (Well, I didn’t actually say that. I shrugged it off and went into my dorm, thinking it loudly.) 
The situation struck me as a reality check — perhaps not every­one is prone to seeing things from the inside-out, or upside-down, as it were. 
But then this friend of mine went to see a slam poet at Legends. Suddenly, he decided he wanted to write poetry. Scoff. Scoff, scoff, scoff from me. Oh, so NOW you think it’s okay to be poetic? NOW you want to step into the shoes of flavored text? Well, go to mon­sieur! See if I read your silly little poems! Which I of course did — I am weak. 
I was sent a very long poem, co-written by him and a friend. They’d sent stanzas back and forth with no real set form. It did, how­ever, have a very distinct form, because poetry lends itself to repe­tition. With a simple premise, “I am running,” repeated before every stanza, the poem covered everything from graduation to career discernment to God. And it was, dare I say, good. I mean, as good as one amateur can say of another. It drew me in, it went somewhere and it didn’t suck. I was slightly flabbergasted. My “trees only grow one way” friend had co-written something lyrical, rhythmic and quite poignant from one senior to another. 
There was poetry inside of him, as in everyone, even if I dismissed it. Just because he can’t fathom the joy of reading a Shakespearean sonnet and stares at a book of col­lected Billy Collins poems like it’s a barnacle stuck on the table, doesn’t mean he can’t feel some­thing deeply and express it with a beautifully laid out text — even if he says he has no idea what he’s doing. That’s kind of the point, though, isn’t it? If we all knew how to write poetry perfectly, there would be no need for rain. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephanie DePrez can be contacted at sdeprez@nd.edu. 


Scene Around the World 
Going abroad? Chronicle your travels in a photo slideshow or video and send your clip to Scene. We’ll post it on The Observer website and a preview will appear in the Scene section of the print edition. 
Email Scene Editor Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu for more information, or check out ndsmcobserver.com/scene to see other student’s videos. 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 20, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 


Irish come back against the Golden Eagles 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The season’s final away game brought No. 22 Notre Dame success, as the team took home a 6-1 victory over Marquette. This weekend, the Irish (12-9) look to have similar results in their last home game. 
The Irish swept the singles competition against Marquette after starting behind when the Golden Eagles won the doubles round of play. 
“Losing the doubles point against Marquette was definite­ly tough and I think that moti­vated us even more to win not just four singles, but all six sin­gles matches,” junior Kristy Frilling said. 
Facing DePaul this weekend, the Irish look to end a three-game winning streak. 
While the records of these two teams may closely resemble each other, closer examination of their respective schedules tells a different story. Notre Dame and DePaul have shared seven mutual competitors throughout the season. Of these seven matches, the Irish have only lost one, while the Blue Demons have only won one. The lone win of these for DePaul came with a 4-3 victory over Marquette. 
Senior Katarina Milinkovic leads DePaul in the No. 1 sin­gles position. Milinkovic holds 23 wins this year on the singles court, 15 of which came from the No. 1 position. 
“DePaul is a good team and losing the doubles point is something we cannot afford this weekend,” Frilling said. “It’s really important for everyone to step up individually.” 
The Irish bring leadership from many sources, beginning with 15th-ranked Frilling in both singles and doubles play. 
Individually Frilling holds a 16­2 record. Junior Shannon Mathews, ranked 64th in the No. 2 position for the Irish, joins Frilling at No. 1 doubles.. 
Freshman Jennifer Kellner, ranked 95th, has improved greatly over the course of the season. Beginning in the No. 5 slot for Notre Dame, she has since moved up to the No. 3 position, where she has worked her way to a 6-1 record. 
This final home match marks the end of the regular season, but leads into continued play for the Irish. 
“As we head into tournament play every point, every match matters so we need to be as prepared as possible,” Frilling said. 
Play against DePaul begins at 1 p.m. Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

of 221 strokes (five over par). Nhim finished just one stroke


Nhim MLB 
behind them at six over par, 

continued from page 16 and Irish junior Becca Huffer came in fourth overall with a 

Shields throws 4-hitter in win 

two-time defending champion. stroke total of 223 (seven over “This win was really big for par). Senior So-Hyun Park took 
us,” Irish senior captain Katie seventh place with a score of bined on a four-hitter in a 5-0 triple. 
Conway said. “Louisville was 229 (13 over par), Conway fin-Associated Press win over the White Sox on Shields got some defensive the two time defending champi-ished in 11th after shooting 233 
Tampa Bay manager Joe Monday night. help in the seventh from catch-

on going into (17 over par) Maddon could sense early on Danks (0-2) gave up two runs er Kelly Shoppach, who picked the week, and over three 
that James Shields was heading and seven hits in seven innings Paul Konerko off at first after we’ve been “Winning rounds, and for a big game. for the White Sox, who have Quentin struck out. 

preparing to championships is the freshman Nicole Shields struck out nine in a lost six in a row. The left-han-Chicago designated hitter 
earn back the Zhang wrapped 
way you leave your four-hitter and the surging der struck out five and hit two Adam Dunn went 0 for 4, 
title all season.” up her first Big 
mark on a program. Rays beat the Chicago White batters. including three strikeouts. He 
The seniors E a s t Sox 2-1 on Tuesday night for “It’s a shame when you’re has two hits in his last 27 at-were proud to The team worked Championship 
their seventh win in eight wasting good pitching,” bats. 

finish their Big appearance tied 
hard to leave that games. Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen Guillen said he might drop 
East careers for 12th with a 
“It was really fun to watch,” said. Dunn, who missed six games 

mark. ” 
with a title. score of 234. 
Maddon said. “He kept his Danks held the Rays without after having an emergency 

“On a person-While Notre 
tempo. He kept his pace. The a hit in six at-bats — including appendectomy on April 6, down al level, this Katie Conway Dame put on an quality of the locations was a pair of strikeouts by B.J. in the lineup from his current 

championship impressive show 
Senior captain severe. On the Upton — with third spot. 
meant more to on the Palm 
money all night runners in scor-“Just so he can relax,” 

me than it did Harbor, Fla., 
long. I could “Joe had some faith in ing position Guillen said. “When you’re out 

in previous years because it course, the Irish will not grow tell he was on me. I was crusing through three for a few days, it takes you a was my final time teeing it up in complacent with their success. 
right from innings, and 0 little while to come back and 

Big East play,” Conway said. “Besides winning the tourna-through the game. It’s 
jump street.” for 8 overall. regroup.” 

“Winning championships is the ment, we were able to take Shields (1-1) exciting. I got the The White Shields ended the game by way you leave your mark on a away from this competition that 
outpit ched [complete game]. It’s Sox, who have striking out Dunn and Konerko 

program. The team worked we could’ve done much better 
John Danks scored just 29 with Juan Pierre on second. 

hard to leave that mark.” since we left a lot of shots out been a long time.” 
and walked one runs over the “It’s awesome,” Maddon said. 

Notre Dame finished with a there all three days,” Park said. 
in his sixth last 10 games, “He was very confident the last 

total of 902 strokes, 13 fewer “We’re really excited for the career com-James Shields tied it at 1 in the three innings.” 
than runner-up Louisville. The rest of the season, especially plete game, Rays pitcher fifth. Carlos Tampa Bay grabbed the lead 13-stroke spread is the fourth-hosting regionals at home on 
and first since Quentin hit a in the first when Ben Zobrist 

largest margin of victory in the the Warren,” Conway said. “If 
June 10, 2008, leadoff double tripled and scored on a

history of the Big East tourna-we play the way we’re capable against the Los Angeles Angels. and scored on A.J. Pierzynski’s grounder by Felipe Lopez, who ment. Host South Florida was of playing, we should definitely “I wanted it, that’s for sure,” one-out single to center. had three RBIs in Monday’s third with a grand total of 934 be making a trip to nationals.” 
Shields said. “Joe had some “It’s a combination of both,” game. Zobrist entered hitless in shots, followed by Georgetown The Irish will enjoy the home-

faith in me. I was cruising Guillen said. “Shields pitched 10 at-bats against Danks. 

with 951. course advantage when they through the game. It’s exciting. very well and we’re not swing-Designated hitter Johnny AnnaKarin Ljungstrom of host the NCAA Central Regional I got the CG. It’s been a long ing the bat well. We’re strug-Damon (bruised left ring finger Louisville and Harin Lee of St. championship at Warren Golf time.” gling right now at the plate, big tip) and first baseman Dan John’s needed a playoff to Course from May 5 to May 7. 
It was the second straight time.” Johnson (sore left forearm-determine the Big East individ­outstanding pitching perform-The Rays went back in front wrist) were out of the Rays’ 

ual champion after both fin-Contact Vicky Jacobson at 
ance for Tampa Bay. David in the bottom half of the fifth on lineup. Both could start again ished with a three-round total vjacobse@nd.edu. 

Price and Joel Peralta com-Sean Rodriguez’s run-scoring in the next couple days. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't "You don't understand! I coulda had "Cinderella story. Outta nowhere. A go it alone. class. I coulda been a contender. I former greenskeeper, now, about to 
LOST AND FOUND NOTICES WANTED could've been somebody, instead of become the Masters champion. It Notre Dame has many resources in a bum, which is what I am." looks like a mirac...It's in the hole! place to assist you. ADOPTION -On the Water Front It's in the hole! It's in the hole!" 
Aquamarine Anniversary Ring Lost If you or someone you care about -Caddyshack in ladies room of North Dining Hall. has been sexually assaulted, we If you or someone you love needs Happily married, professional cou-"Louis, I think this is the beginning ——————————————— $100.00 reward for return, no ques-can help. confidential support or assistance, ple wishes to start family. Can offer of a beautiful friendship." This is the story of how I died. tions asked. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. child lots of love and stability. -Casablanca ——————————————— 
For more information, visit Notre Did I ever tell you I’ve got a thing for Lori (the line lady) 574-226-3876. Dames website: For more information, visit ND's Expenses paid. We are fully certi-"One morning I shot an elephant in brunettes? When I got married we could not website at: fied (adoption attorney enlisted and my pajamas. How he got in my ——————————————— afford an engagement ring. I was http://csap.nd.edu home study completed) to adopt in pajamas, I don't know." — I have made the decision to trust given this ring for my 25th anniver-http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu the United States Please call Maria -Animal Crackers you. sary. Email haselrick.1@nd.edu and Michael. 1-800-513-4914 — A horrible decision really. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, April 20, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
WEATHER DELAYS 


Belles set to play Hopetwice today 

Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s postponed its doubleheader against Hope Tuesday. The game was post­poned due to inclement weath­er and is rescheduled for today at 3:30 p.m. on the Belles home field. 
The last two games on Saint Mary’s schedule have been rescheduled in response to the cold and the rainy weather that has blanketed South Bend. The first was against Olivet College, a home field doubleheader that is rescheduled for April 29. This is the second time this sea­son that multiple games in a row have been affected by poor weather. 
In their last faceoff during the 2010 season, Saint Mary’s and Hope split the series, Hope win­ning game one 5-4 and the Belles clenching the second game 8-4. Senior Ashley Peterson claimed her record breaking eighth home run of the season in the second game. 
The Belles are currently 12­11 on the season and 1-5 in MIAA play. They have struggled in the conference, gaining their only conference victory against Adrian 1-0. 
The next regularly scheduled game for the Belles will be Saturday against Kalamazoo at 1 p.m. Last year, the Belles defeated Kalamazoo soundly in both games, winning 23-5 and 30-6 respectively. 
The Belles Senior Day will be Wednesday, April 27. 
SMC Tennis 
Rainy conditions and schedul­ing conflicts forced the Saint Mary’s and Indiana Wesleyan match at Saint Mary’s tennis courts to be cancelled Tuesday afternoon. 
Normally, inclement condi­tions would move the match to the indoor Eck Tennis Pavilion after 6 p.m. However, a later start time proved impractical for the Wildcats (21-1) due to the travel distance. 
After winning seven of their last eight games to climb into third place in the MIAA, the Belles (12-6, 5-2) were looking forward to a challenge from NAIA opponent Indiana Wesleyan, ranked No. 17 in the recent NAIA coaches’ poll. 
Instead the Belles will use the extra time to prepare for their final match of the regular sea­son against MIAA foe Kalamazoo College on April 26. 
Following the match against the Hornets (6-10, 3-3), the Belles will compete in the MIAA conference tournament April 29-30. 



page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 20, 2011 
MEN’S TENNIS 



ND looks to rebound with Louisville upset 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After a tough loss to No. 2 Ohio State, Notre Dame will take on defending Big East champion Louisville this week­end. 
“Louisville returns all of its starters from last year’s No. 12 team that reached the NCAA round of 16,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Four seniors start, so they have been through the wars. They are especially tough at home — and in particular, indoors.” 
Senior Dan Stahl is riding an eight-match win streak, includ­ing a win over the Buckeyes. 
“Against Ohio State we learned that we have some pretty good players, as the dou­bles was very competitive and we won at No. 3 and No. 6,” Bayliss said. 
The Irish lost to Louisville in the finals of the Big East tour­nament last season and will look to redeem themselves this year. 
Bayliss notes that both line­ups are similar to last season and making a dent in the top of Louisville’s lineup will be cru­cial if the Irish expect to have success against the Cardinals. 
Notre Dame has been injury-plagued all season. With many starters missing significant amounts of time, Bayliss will have some tough decisions to make before the tournament. 
“In preparing for the Big East, we need to have a great effort against Louisville,” Bayliss said. “Additionally, we need to make decisions regard­ing roster management because we have started nine players most of the year and the roster needs to be trimmed to eight before play begins.” 
Junior Sam Keeton may be available to play for the Irish on Saturday against Louisville, which may give Notre Dame a much-needed boost. 
Last year in the match against Louisville, Keeton was able to defeat Robert Hall in three sets for one of two Irish victories. 
The winner of the match between Louisville and Notre Dame will likely get the No. 1 seed in next weekend’s Big East tournament that will be held in South Bend. 
The Irish will travel to Louisville, Ky., to take on the Cardinals with the first serve set for 1 p.m. and will return to South Bend to host the Big East championships beginning April 28. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 





Wednesday, April 20, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
things we’ve worked on consis­tently since the beginning of 
Offense 
Undefeated 

the year. I think it’s getting continued from page 16 there. Hopefully we can get 
continued from page 16 

real hot at the right time, make the conference tournament a little run at the Big East 
and the goal has always been to given continued development championships.” 
be number one,” Irish coach in practice. Senior infielder Greg Sherry 
Kevin Corrigan said. “So I think “The key for us is to just con-echoed his teammate’s senti­
it’s a great thing for anybody tinue to improve, especially ments. 
that ever played here to know offensively,” Aoki said. “I really “The pitching has been great 
that, at some point, we made it.” feel that this team is built the whole year,” Sherry said. 
The achievement almost never almost for a tournament type “The hitters are starting to get 
was, however, as the Irish near-of format than the grind of the their timing. Coach Aoki has 
ly squandered the opportunity regular season. If we can get been preaching living in the 
to earn the top spot in the rank-that fourth, fifth, sixth seed in right-center field gap, which 
ings when they played St. John’s the Big East tournament, I has helped us the last two, 
Saturday. Notre Dame trailed 5­think we can be a really tough three weeks. We’re going to get 
2 at the half before outscoring out.” it rolling. We’re starting to play 
the Red Storm 8-2 in the final Tied for second in the Big confidently.” 
two quarters to take the 10-7 East standings, St. John’s (19-Confidence will be key as 
victory, extending its perfect 13, 8-4) has positioned itself for Notre Dame looks to improve 
record. When the Irish travel to a top-seed in the conference upon its 2-5 record on the 
Providence (3-8, 0-3 Big East), tournament on the back of its road. Aoki will tap his trio of 
they will be careful to avoid outstanding defense. The Red senior right-handers Brian 
another scare. Storm have committed just 32 Dupra, Cole Johnson and Todd 
“I think that we need to learn, errors all season, good enough Miller to subdue the Red Storm 
basically, from St. John’s that for the conference’s best field-offense. 
we cannot overlook anybody,” ing percentage at .974. “We can be a team that not a 
senior defenseman Kevin St. John’s also features one of whole heck-of-a-lot of people 
Ridgway said. “[Against St. the conference’s premiere hit-want to play, especially if we 
John’s] we got down early, but I ters in shortstop Joe Panik. The can make some improvement 
know that we are going to come shortstop has amassed a .395 offensively,” Aoki said. “We’ve 
out with a little more energy batting average, 31 RBIs and a pitched it pretty well and we’ve 
and up-tempo practice this conference-best 27 walks, lead-defended it for the most part 
week … to make sure that we ing the Red Storm to a team pretty well. At some point, 
do not overlook Providence.” batting average of .272 com-these one and two-run games 
Although Providence has pared to Notre Dame’s .239, should start going our way if 
dropped seven of its last eight the lowest mark in the confer-we can improve.” 
games, Corrigan emphasized ence. The Irish will play at St. 
that the Friars’ record is a poor “We can really pitch it. That’s John’s this weekend in a three-
indication of how good they the strength of the team,” sen-game series. 
actually are. In Saturday’s 13-3 ior infielder Mick Doyle said. 
loss to Syracuse, Providence “The hitting has been kind of a Contact Chris Masoud at 
hung tough for most of the process for us. Coach has a few cmasoud@nd.edu 
game, as they trailed 4-3 at half focused on what we need to do the week awards, as senior mid-and 5-3 after three quarters, day-to-day,” he said. “If we can fielder David Earl was named but faltered in the fourth quar-keep the focus there, then I offensive player of the week and ter don’t think [the ranking] is sophomore goalie John Kemp 
“If you aren’t paying attention, going to add a lot of pressure. took the defensive award for the you look at them and you think Again, we started the year with second straight week. Against … ‘their record is not very good high goals and high aspirations, St. John’s, Earl netted three and all that,’ but if you look and so I don’t think this is a goals and registered four total really closely at their results, shock to be in this position, but points. Kemp recorded 11 saves this is a team that’s gone from we know it doesn’t mean any-and scooped up four ground not being a very good team at thing when we step on the balls. the beginning of the year to field.” Earl, Ridgway, and senior playing some very, very good Ridgway added that the team’s midfielder Zach Brenneman teams really well over the main goal remains a berth in also garnered national recogni­course of the last five weeks,” the national championship, tion when they were named as Corrigan said. “You really see a which will be played on May 30. official nominees for the 2011 team that is starting to grow “I don’t think anything Tewaaraton Trophy, the premier and develop and get better and changed as far as what we do individual award in lacrosse. one that we know we can’t [as a result of the ranking],” he The Irish will put both their afford to not be prepared said. “It is a cool recognition to perfect record and their stand-against.” be number one, but it does not ing as the nation’s number one 
Being pegged as the country’s really matter until Memorial team on the line when they trav­best team certainly offers plenty Day. el to Providence. The opening of distractions for a team, but Notre Dame has played excep-faceoff is scheduled for Saturday Corrigan said his players are tionally well recently, and the at noon. handling the distinction the conference is taking notice. The right way. Irish swept the most recent Contact Joseph Monardo at 
“I think our guys are just very round of the Big East player of jmonardo@nd.edu 
Turnovers 
continued from page 16 
in the category, while Blaney is sixth. Blaney is also the Irish leader in goals scored with 21 total. 
Saturday will mark the last home game for Notre Dame’s seniors, a class that includes two All-Americans and a Big East championship. 
“It’s sad to see such a great group of players play their last game in Arlotta Stadium,” Coyne said. “The seniors would feel great satisfaction by beating Georgetown at home. 
The Irish play Vanderbilt at 2 p.m. today before returning to Arlotta Stadium for a 1 p.m. start against Georgetown Saturday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 






page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 20, 2011 
Big East 
continued from page 16 
and how they competed,” he said. “They really battled hard, even when most would admit they weren’t on their ‘A’ game.” 
Junior Max Scodro led the Irish again en route to winning the individual title. He carded rounds of 70, 73 and 69, respectively, to finish with a one under par 212 for the tournament. Kubinski said he took pride in the junior’s effort. 
“Max played extremely well to win it all and become our first individual champion since 2005,” Kubinski said. “I’m really proud of him. He deserves it.” 
With junior number one golfer Tom Usher unable to compete, the Irish needed con­tributions from each member of their top five. Kubinski said every golfer on his squad stepped up at a crucial time. 
“Paul [McNamara III] played really well for us as a sopho­more in his first [Big East championship],” he said. “He had to battle through an injury and really gutted it out. [Senior] Connor [Alan-Lee] gave us a really good round on Monday. We needed his 73. [Junior] Chris [Walker] didn’t play like he’s capable, but still played some good stretches.” 
Perhaps the most impressive effort came from freshman Niall Platt, who capped his first season of college golf by carding a five over par 218. Kubinski said his freshman, who finished in a tie for sixth place individually, played con­fidently. 
“Niall also played well,” Kubinski said. “He was tremendous, really, all tourna­ment except for his first nine or 10 holes. To play his last eight holes at one under was a huge factor for us going from a pretty close lead to winning by six shots. And having a fresh­man do it is outstanding.” 
Their effort in the Big East tournament positioned the Irish for a berth in the NCAA regional tournament for the first time since 2006. Kubinski said he initially hoped to just get back to the national stage, but now thinks his team might be able to advance beyond regionals. 
“This season, I was really hoping we could get some experience in the NCAA’s for next season,” he said. “With how well our top guys are playing and us getting Tom back healthy, I think we have a chance to make some noise.” 
This season will have far-reaching effects. Kubinski said his current squad’s NCAA berth will improve the future of the program. 
“[Appearing on the national stage is] tremendous for the program,” he said. “It’s some­thing that every junior golfer is looking at and that all of our recruits mentioned. They want to have a chance to play for the national title. It will be good to get back to the NCAAs for the first time in a few years and hopefully make it to the championships, which this pro­gram hasn’t done in 45 years.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 






Wednesday, April 20, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, April  20, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

A program first 
Notre Dame to face Big East foe Providence 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After taking over the top spot in both the Inside Lacrosse media poll and the USILA coaches poll for the first time in program history, the No. 1 Irish will have to defend the nation’s 

only remaining  undefeated  
record  against  Providence  
Saturday.  

The Irish (9-0, 4-0 Big East) spent multiple weeks in the top five before ascending to the top of the rankings following Syracuse’s 11-6 loss to No. 3 Cornell on April 12. Syracuse dropped from No. 1 to No. 4 fol­lowing the defeat, opening the door for the Irish to take the No. 1 ranking for the first time in the program’s 30-year history. 
“I’m not going to act like it doesn’t mean anything, because we’ve been playing lacrosse and working at this for a long time 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Sophomore midfelder Steve Murphy splits the defense during Notre Dame’s game against see UNDEFEATED/page 13 Georgetown April 10. The Irish are currently ranked No. 1 for the frst time in program history. 

MEN’S GOLF 
Irish claim victory in conference 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Last spring, the Irish ended the Big East championship in agonizing fashion, finishing one stroke behind first-place Georgetown. This year, howev­er, they left no doubt that they were the victors. 
Notre Dame was in a tie for first after Sunday’s initial round, then grabbed sole pos­session of the lead after the second round Monday. It com­pleted the wire-to-wire victory Tuesday and claimed the pro­gram’s seventh Big East title and first since 2006. The Irish finished with a 24 over par 
876. Runner-up Louisville carded a 30 over par 882. 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski said his team never wavered despite some rough stretches 
“I’m really proud of the guys 
see BIG EAST/page 14 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Squad looks to even record against stiff competition 
Irish junior attack Maggie its last three contests decided and our defensive personnel Barb Black has anchored the 
By MATTHEW DEFRANKS 

Tamasitis tied a Notre Dame by just one score. Most recent-matches up well with their key Georgetown defense, playing 
Sports Writer 

(6-7, 3-2 Big East) single-game ly, the Commodores lost to players,” Coyne said. “We have over 500 minutes and allowing 
record with six assists. then-No. 6 Florida 8-7, holding a good game plan and an edge 9.71 goals per game. 
As the season winds down, Meanwhile, senior midfielder the Gators to their lowest in all categories, I think.” “We recruit the same players each lacrosse game becomes Shaylyn Blaney led the Irish offensive output of the season. On offense, Georgetown (7-5, and they are always competi­more and more important. For attack with four goals. Junior attack Courtney Kirk 5-0) boasts two 20-goal scorers tive year in, year out,” Coyne the Irish, each game becomes “[Notre Dame-Vanderbilt] is leads the Commodores with 47 in senior attack Jordy Kirr and said. “We need to improve in tougher as well. a huge rivalry, we play them points, including 26 assists. sophomore midfielder Sophia transition and have less 
After beating Connecticut 15-every year,” Irish coach Tracy Junior midfielder Ally Carey Thomas. Kirr and Thomas also turnovers.” 5 Saturday, Notre Dame will Coyne said. “We don’t have has also had a solid season, lead the Hoyas in assists. The Irish, however, can battle No. 20 Vanderbilt in trouble getting psyched to play scooping up 3.57 ground balls The Hoyas carry an oppor-cause some turnovers as well. Nashville before returning them. It will be good prep for per game, the fourth-highest tunistic team defense that Senior defender Jackie home to play Big East leader the Georgetown game.” total in the country. causes nearly 11 turnovers a Doherty ranks third nationally No. 17 Georgetown. Vanderbilt (7-7) is coming off “Our attack matches up with game, the fourth-highest mark 
In the win over Connecticut, a string of close games, with their defensive weaknesses nationally. Freshman goalie see TURNOVERS/page 13 
BASEBALL 

Irish ready for St. John’s 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Tuesday’s rainout gave Notre Dame an additional day of rest before the team travels to Queens, N.Y., for a three-game set against St. John’s. But after dropping four of its last six games at Frank Eck Stadium, the team also lost a chance to improve its overall record through a nonconference contest against MAC foe Toledo. 
After showing signs of life in a 14-4 outburst against Connecticut April 10, the offense has gone cold once again, aver­aging just over three runs in its past four games. Irish coach Mik Aoki remains positive and believes Notre Dame (14-18-1, 5-7 Big East) can be a threat in 
see OFFENSE/page 13 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Freshman Nhim leads team to fourth title 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Freshman Kristina Nhim insists that the pressure of being atop the leaderboard did not affect her play as she led the No. 25 Irish to their fourth Big East conference title. 
In fact, Nhim, who finished third overall, was not aware that she was even one of the leaders. 
“I had no idea I was near the lead,” she said. “I had some really unlucky breaks in the beginning of my round, so I actually counted myself out of it.” 
Nhim was tied for first place at five over par going into the last hole, which she bogeyed. 
“I didn’t know until I fin­ished my last hole that I missed out on the playoff by one. Then I was super upset, because I thought Louisville caught up to us, not that I missed out on first. Then I realized that I lost on the last hole, but I got over it,” Nhim said. “Winning with the team is way better.” 
The conference champi­onship, the first for Notre Dame since 2008, was espe­cially sweet as it came at the expense of rival No. 36 Louisville, who came into the Big East championship as the 
see NHIM/page 10 






