the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


St. Liam’s offers treatment for SAD 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
Students depressed by con­tinual snowfall, below-freezing temperatures and cloudy skies can seek refuge in the Inner Resources Room in St. Liam Hall, University Health Services staff psychologist Wendy Settle said. 
Settle said every year thou­sands of Americans fall victim to seasonal affective disorder (SAD), a type of clinical depres­sion that emerges during the long and dark winter months. 
Research shows people need a certain amount of sunlight to maintain their well-being. Settle said light absorbed by the body stops the production of melatonin, a hormone pro­duced to help the body sleep. During the winter, people are drowsier because the body produces more melatonin with fewer hours of daylight. 
“We become almost like a bear hibernating,” she said. 
Symptoms of SAD include depression, fatigue, irritability and weight gain, according to Settle. About one to two per­cent of Americans experience severe symptoms, while 10 to 25 percent encounter the “win­ter blues,” a watered-down version of SAD with milder symptoms, such as over-eating and over-sleeping. 
Victims of SAD and the win­ter blues typically reside in the middle latitude regions of the United States, Settle said. As residents of South Bend, stu­dents at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s are extremely vulnera­ble. 

The Inner Resources Room, located on the third floor of St. Liam Hall, was designed specifically to help students suffering from winter depres­sion on campus. In addition to a massage chair, negative ion therapy and a mini waterfall hanging on the wall, the Inner Resources Room offers light therapy. 
The Light Box provides full 
see SAD/page 5 



New master’s degree focusesonGlobalHealth 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
A new master’s of science in global health degree will pro­vide students with practical science-centric training and prepare them to improve health in developing countries, according to Joseph Bock, director of global health stud­ies at the Eck Institute for Global Health. 
A degree in global health is designed to focus on practical issues of health without national boundaries, Bock said, because global health refers to the scope of a prob-
see MASTERS/page 5 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame ranked 18th among medium-sized schools this year to send the most volun­teers to serve in the group, according to a University press release. 
The University jumped five spots on the list from last year as the Peace Corps prepares to mark its 50th anniversary, the release said. Notre Dame was included on this list for the past 11 years. 
Peace Corps recruiter Rok Teasley said Notre Dame aver­aged 23 applicants to the group in each of the past four years. Nineteen seniors applied already this year, and the rolling applica­tion process is ongoing. 
Current seniors wishing to join the 25 Notre Dame alumni cur­rently serving in the Peace Corps must first complete a grueling application process, according to the release. 
Senior Claire Brosnihan said 

Fire dept. installsnew alarms 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Fire Department (NDFD) recently upgraded 16 residence halls with new fire alarm systems, in hopes of creating a safer and more hospitable environment on campus, and will install better alarms in other buildings as well, Notre Dame Fire Department Chief William Farhat said. 
Mike McCauslin, assistant director for Risk Management and Safety, arranged funding of the project. 
“Concerns had been expressed by both students and rectors about actually hearing the fire alarms,” McCauslin said. “Older dorms only had alarms in common spaces and corridors throughout the resi­dence hall, not in individual rooms.” 
The new system is built with sounder-based technology, McCauslin said. This technology placed an actual alarm in every room in these residence halls, and residents will be able to hear the alarm at all times. 
see ALARMS/page 3 



Seniors head to Peace Corps 

the process includes a lengthy online application, an hour-long interview with very specific and personal questions, and multiple steps of clearance, contributing to months of waiting. 
Brosnihan, a political science major with a minor in peace studies, said she would be sta­tioned in French-speaking sub-Saharan Africa to work on a malnutrition-focused public 
see PEACE/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council discusses term timing page 3  PEMCo. to perform ‘Chicago’ page 8  Women’s basketball routes Seton Hall page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 9, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY:  OW DO YOU PUT A GIRAFFE IN A REFRIGERATOR?

THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
John Cameron Kelsey Manning Megan Doyle Cory Bernard Carly Landon Mike Gottimer 

Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Jordan Gamble 

Photo Viewpoint 
Dan Jacobs Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 
I’m robbing you, sir’ : ‘Polite’ robber arrested 
SEATTLE — A man accused of robbing a Seattle convenience store at gun­point last weekend might have earned points with its owner by being polite. 
But saying “sir” probably won’t impress prosecutors or federal authorities who say they have supervised him since he wrapped up a prison term for an earlier string of hold-ups. 
The King County Sheriff’s Office identified the suspect Tuesday as Gregory P. Hess, 
65. He’s a former Starbucks barista who has been on fed­eral supervision since 2007, when he was released from prison after receiving a near­ly six-year sentence for hit-
Chiamaka Esomonu  Matt Kelly  Meg Vertovec  Katie Duffy  Mike Bock  Kyle Tennant  
sophomore  freshman  sophomore  freshman  freshman  senior  
Pangborn  O’Neill  Pangborn  McGlinn  Carroll  Stanford  

“Snap off its  “Very  “No, that’s  “Shove it in.”  “Open the door  “You open the  
neck.”  carefully.”  animal cruelty.”  and put it in.”  door, take out  
the  
elephant,and  
put it in.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

ting five banks and a video store in the Seattle area. 
His bail was set at $250,000. He is being held for investigation of robbery but has not been charged. 
Hungary’s 84-year-old burglar strikes again 
BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary’s notorious octoge­narian thief is not ready for retirement. 
The 84-year-old woman, known as “Flying Gizi,” whose criminal record goes back to the 1950s, is again in custody for suspected theft, police said Tuesday. 
Fejer County Police spokes­woman Agnes R. Szabo said the burglar, whose real name is Gizella Bodnar, is suspected of taking some 15,000 forints (euro55, $75) from a home in Bicske, a town in central Hungary. 
Bodnar, who has been con­victed of over 20 crimes and has spent nearly 18 years in prison, got her nickname because she enjoyed taking domestic commercial flights after successful break-ins. 
She eluded capture for years, as police never imag­ined that the cat burglar would travel so far to commit her crimes. 
This time, she only got as far as the Bicske train station before the police found her and the missing cash she took from a wallet on the house’s living room table. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Siegfried Hall’s annual Day of Man will be taking place all day today at various locations throughout campus. Each Rambler will be wearing only shorts and flip-flops in order to collect donations to benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
The lecture “Democratic Revolution in the Middle East? The Rise of Civil Resistance in Tunisia, Egypt, Lebanon and Beyond” will be held today at the Hesburgh Center auditorium at 4 p.m. In this current events panel, Kroc Institute faculty experts will review the tumultuous events that are transforming Egypt, Tunisia, Lebanon, Yemen, and other countries in the Middle East. 
A reading by Monica Mody, 2010 Nicholas Sparks Prize Winner, will take place today at 7:30 p.m. in the Hammes Bookstore. The Nicholas Sparks Prize is awarded to a recent graduate of the MFA Creative Writing Program at Notre Dame. The reading is free and open to the public. 
The student body presi­dent/vice president debate will take place tonight at 9 
p.m. in the Main Lounge of LaFortune. Elections will be held next Tuesday, February 14. 
The Martin Luther King, Jr. Series for the Study of Race will be held by Multicultural Student Programs and Services in DeBartolo 136 tomorrow at 6 p.m. This is the fourth of a five-part series which take place on Thursday evenings. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 



CORRECTIONS 

A Feb. 8 article, “Officials appoint new University librarian,” misidentified Diane Parr Walker’s start date as University Librarian. She will begin the posi-




tion July 25. The Observer regrets this error. 
LOW -4 LOW -4 LOW 9 LOW 21 LOW 26 LOW 30 


Wednesday, February 9, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Council discusses term changes 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
At its Tuesday meeting, the Council of Representatives (COR) discussed problems with the transition at the end of student government office terms, including ineffective training of new officers and difficulty in event planning during the transition period. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said the issue comes up repeatedly and could be addressed in a Student Senate amendment. A common complaint, Bell said, is the inability of students studying abroad to serve the next semester. 
“Are there certain positions where we think it’s possible to start at different times in the year other than the usual April 1 to April 1?” he said. “I guess the options are shifting the dates of the term start, or are there positions we think could be shorter or is there a single time frame we think everyone should have?” 
Ricky Bevington, director of First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership (FUEL), a freshman leadership program, said he thought a single set of term dates is best because it simplifies the process for students consider­ing running for office. 

“If we streamline it, I think it would be best for attracting people to these positions,” he said. 
Julia Sutton, Student Union Board (SUB) manager, said the current term transition of April 1 presents her group with a challenge in program­ming the rest of the semester. 
“SUB has issues with this. We physically can’t not plan after April 1. Antostal’s after April 1,” she said. “I guess it would be ideal for program­mers not to be considered in that.” 
Sutton said part of the prob­lem with having a different term end-date for SUB mem­bers is that it would leave them ineligible to run for another office. 
Sophomore class president Brett Rocheleau said the April 1 date negates the opportunity for class councils’ event pro­gramming for April, a month ideal for outdoor events. 
“I think for class councils the election time, March 1, is good. I would just recommend they change office around May 1,” he said. “Then they could get a lot of events done in April.” 
Student body president Catherine Soler said program­ming is a possibility during April despite the transition period. 
“You can plan events [for April] as long as it’s approved by Programming Board and you have that transition with the new people going in [to office],” she said. “I think it’s hard, it’s an extra step, but I don’t think that makes it impossible.” 
Kate Clitheroe, senior class president, agreed a smooth, cooperative transition period between office-holders is essential but often overlooked. 
“I think if you’re going to have an April 1 date, you need to emphasize there needs to be a period of transition where you help the new peo­ple get acclimated,” she said. “The duty’s not clear enough ... it may be on paper but it’s not enforced.” 
Soler said it might come down to personal responsibili­ty on the part of officers to ensure their successors are properly trained. 
“Is there a real reason, or are we just being lazy in our transition?” she said. “I think maybe that’s something we need to take more responsibil­ity for.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 






Discussion honors deceased thinkers 

By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Members of the Saint Mary’s College community gathered Tuesday to remember three great thinkers who died within almost one month of each other this time last year. 
The memorial honored Edward Schillebeeckx, who died Dec. 23, 2009, Mary Daly, who died Jan. 3, 2010 and Howard Zinn, who died Jan. 27, 2010. 
Sr. Kathleen Dolphin, direc­tor of the Center for Spirituality, spoke about Schillebeeckx, a Dominican priest who worked to reshape theology. 
“Dominicans were very influ­ential in recasting theology in newer ways of thinking,” Dolphin said. 
Dolphin said she decided to study Schillebeeckx’s works while she worked to complete her doctorate at the University of Chicago. 
“I knew with great clarity that I wanted to study Edward Schillebeeckx,” she said. 
Dolphin said she worked with his sermons and had the opportunity to study directly with Schillebeeckx. 
“He was so personable and so helpful,” she said. 
Religious studies professor Stacy Davis spoke about Mary Daly, a feminist who worked to empower women. 
Daly was extremely well educated and earned three PhDs, Davis said. 
“Daly is probably the best example of what an educated woman is capable of,” Davis said. 
Davis described Daly as a “radical feminist.” 
“The only way you can really exist is just to be free,” Davis said. “What she wanted for everybody was to exist free from patriarchy, free from oppression.” 



Alarms 
continued from page 1 
“The newer West Quad resi­dence halls were built with sounder-based technology enhanced fire alarm systems,” McCauslin said. “We recently identified the halls that did not have those types of alarms. The Office of Risk Management and Safety then went to the University to ask for funding, which was then granted.” 
Farhat also played a major role in the efforts to upgrade the fire systems in various dorms. 
“This is a progressing project which got its start in August and will be going on until March,” Farhat said. “It is difficult to upgrade systems when the halls are occupied, but this project, while expensive, is one that the University felt was necessary.” 
The 16 dorms across campus to received newer systems recently tested the new alarms recently to ensure their effec­tiveness, Farhat said. During the test, NDFD did not find a flawed system in any of the dorms. 
The 16 residence halls were merely the first goal of Notre Dame’s fire alarm renovation project. 
“In addition to the 16 dorms 
Davis said Daly left the Church because of its patriar­chal structure 
“Her argument was you should not waste your time banging your head against a wall,” Davis said. “She was not persuaded that Christian insti­tutions would do the right thing on their own.” 
Davis said Daly was ahead of her time and directed many of her efforts toward creating equality for women. 
“To be a radical feminist is to choose life, both for women and men,” Davis said. 
Professor Jan Pilarski, direc­tor of the College’s Justice Education Department, spoke about Howard Zinn, and showed a short video based of off Zinn’s memoir. 
Pilarksi discussed how Zinn took life experiences and reflected on them in order to shape his lifestyle. 
Pilarksi said Zinn was a pro­fessor and worked to teach his students how to make changes. 
According to Pilarski, Zinn made modifications that were incremental to help his stu­dents question what was going on within society during the time of the Civil Rights Movement. 
“As young people, as schol­ars, as other faculty got involved, [they noticed] that they weren’t allowed to use the public libraries,” Pilarksi said. 
Pilarski said Zinn helped educate others about social issues so they could bring change to society. 
“They really reversed at least one institution and changed it so that the students and the faculty who were engaged in that struggle really kind of uprooted and trans­formed the institution and the community,” Pilarski said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
that were upgraded, University Village and other off-campus apartments associated with Notre Dame will also be revamped,” Farhat said. 
Farhat said NDFD does more work on campus than respond to fires. The majority of calls received per school year do not concern fires. 
“NDFD takes about 13,000 calls per school year,” Farhat said. “While not all of them deal with fire-related issues, it is important all on-campus resi­dents understand the impor­tance and severity of a potential fire. The four fire drills required by the Indiana Fire Code are an essential aspect in creating a safe, emergency-free atmos­phere.” 
McCauslin said he believes students and staff should be elated to have these new alarms. 
“The Notre Dame community should be thrilled that the University continues to invest in their safety,” McCauslin said. “When you look across the country at the number of fires that occur on college campuses, Notre Dame continues to make great strides in reducing the chances of potential disasters and promoting the lifestyle and safety of its residents.” 


Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 9, 2011 Wednesday, February 9, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



Peace 
continued from page 1 
health program. 
“The Peace Corps gives you a different perspective from South Bend, Indiana and Notre Dame,” Brosnihan said. “Putting all of your beliefs into action is a big part of it.” 
Brosnihan said she would like to work in international relations or at an international non-profit organization after her time in the Peace Corps. 
Senior Shannon Coyne will also join the Peace Corps after gradu­ation. A political science and Arabic double major with a minor in peace studies, Coyne said she will be teaching English in either Jordan or Morocco. 
“I was attracted to the princi­ples that underlie the mission of the [Peace Corps],” Coyne said. “I was interested in post-graduate service, and it seemed like a logi­cal choice.” 
Coyne said her minor in Peace Studies prepared her for her time in the Peace Corps. 
“Peace Studies classes are good for helping you think about ways to promote international develop­ment,” Coyne said. “But more than my studies, my experiences outside the classroom really pre­pared me.” 
Coyne participated in service through the Center for Social Concerns and the Kellogg Institute, and traveled to Ghana and Cairo, Egypt through the University, which provided invaluable service experiences for her. 
Coyne said she is most interest­ed in gender issues and will seek a master’s degree in development after leaving the Peace Corps in hopes of working for a non-gov­ernmental organization. 
Megan Conway, a 2006 Notre Dame graduate, also studied Peace Studies while she was a student. She joined the Peace Corps after graduation and is now at the University of Michigan Law School. 
Conway said a class on tropical African politics she took as an undergraduate piqued her inter­est in Africa. She was stationed in Cameroon, where she worked on public health initiatives. 
“We worked with potable water projects, AIDS education, basic health and hygiene and environ­mental education classes,” Conway said. “And I focused in pre-natal care projects.” 
Although her time in the Peace Corps was rewarding and worth­while, Conway said she learned that international sustainable development, more specifically public health, was not the field for her. 
“I had a phenomenal experi­ence, but I realized that I didn’t want to live abroad for the rest of my life,” Conway said. 
Conway said the unique under­graduate experience at Notre Dame contributed to her choice to join the Peace Corps. 
“I don’t think I would have joined the Peace Corps if I had attended one of the other univer­sities I was thinking of,” Conway said. 
Notre Dame’s relationship can be attributed to the University’s mission to serve others, Coyne said. 
“It’s definitely the emphasis that Notre Dame students put on service,” Coyne said, “and taking what you learn in the classroom to give back to others.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



Masters 
continued from page 1 
lem rather than its geographi­cal location. 
Bock, who will oversee the program, said the coursework would build the practical skills students would need to work in international development and global health. 
“Our mission isn’t so much to enhance their theoretical knowledge of biology but rather of ... applied biology,” he said. “Instead of ‘know why,’ this is about ‘know how.’” 
Bock said he would like to see graduates of the program move into work with humani­tarian organizations such as Doctors Beyond Borders, Catholic Relief Services or the World Health Organization. 
“We are here to help people widen their perspectives, to look closely at the reasons behind extreme poverty and vulnerability, to develop the practical skills so they can do something that would be differ­ent that what they would have if they had not gone through this program,” he said. 
Students will graduate from the program with the ability to look at the picture of health on a global scale as well as on a local scale, Bock said. 
The first class to enter the program will include six stu­dents to begin in the fall. Bock said most of the applications 
SAD 
continued from page 1 
spectrum light with no UV rays. While the large lamp does not tan skin at all, Settle said the light box rejuvenates students suffering from depression with its artificial sunlight. 
The Inner Resources Room has one Light Box on hand as well two others available for rental. Settle said thirty min­utes per day could snap light box users out of their winter funk. 
Most patients use light thera­py in the early morning hours, Settle said. 
“[The light box] is best to use in the morning,” she said, “because it tricks your body into thinking your day has been extended.” 
Benefits of light therapy currently being reviewed are from college seniors working on bachelor’s of science (B.S.) degrees. 
The master’s program will last 12 months. Students will follow a core curriculum of classes on global health chal­lenges, research methods in global health science and bioethics. 
The coursework will also include nine credit hours of electives and can select cours­es covering a range across dif­ferent disciplines. Electives include courses on immunolo­gy, applied probability, envi­ronmental microbiology, AIDS and parasitology. 
“We are going to make every effort link global health stu­dents with faculty who are doing global health work,” Bock said. 
Students will also spend two to three months of field experi­ence in a resource-poor set­ting, Bock said. Students can connect with faculty projects or international organizations such as Catholic Relief Services (CRS) to complete this require­ment. 
“The field experience can be a number of different options,” he said. “It can be service, it can be research, it can be proj­ect monitoring or it could be evaluation of projects.” 
The program will focus its fieldwork in developing coun­tries, Bock said. 
Bock joined the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies in 2007 at the 
include higher energy levels, better concentration, fewer mood swings and a better night’s sleep. The Inner Resources Room is available for students, faculty and staff without any recommendation or official diagnosis from a doctor. 
Patients start to feel a differ­ence in as little as three to four days, and research shows light therapy’s effectiveness rate is similar to antidepressants, Settle said. 
Light therapy can benefit an individual feeling the effects of SAD but Settle said profession­al treatment is still the best option for anyone suffering depression. 
“Anyone with symptoms of SAD should be evaluated by a physician to determine the best treatment option,” she said. 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 
Notre Dame’s mission to bring about greater knowledge to bear on helping poor and vul­nerable people, and the vast majority of those people are in developing countries,” he said. 
“This is not just about intel­lectual curiosity. This is about having a passion to really reach out to the poor and vul­nerable.” 


Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
director of external relations before he moved to the Eck Institute. Bock is the University’s liaison to Catholic Relief Services and has worked in global health in South Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Haiti, according to a University press release. 
The College of Science will fund the field experiences for the students, Bock said. The class is expected to grow to 12 in its second year and up to 25 in its third year. 
Tuition, currently set at $39,710, will be subsidized by the College of Science at the rate of $24, 710. Students will therefore only pay a maximum of $15,000 to enter the pro­gram, he said. 
Bock said participants in the program would have the chance to live Notre Dame’s mission. 
“We see it as a fulfillment of 




The Observer 




Viewpoint 

page 6 Wednesday, February 9, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A knight’s tale 
We all know the type: Born humming the Notre Dame Victory March, parents who met at Notre Dame, been attend­ing football games at Notre Dame Stadium since they were a toddler. Certainly a healthy portion of the student body right now can claim Notre Dame as less of a college choice and more of a family tradi­tion. 

I’m not that 

Chris Allen 
guy. 

That’s not to Sports say I don’t have a Production family tradition Editor when it comes to higher education; however, my family’s mascot of choice wears a suit of armor rather than a green blazer and wields a knight’s sword in favor of a shillelagh. In lieu of the Victory March, I was immersed in “The Bells Must Ring” as family members wore scarlet red sweaters that bore the word: Rutgers. The state university of my home state, New Jersey, with its main campus a mere five-minute drive down the road, and a fixture in my life since before I could talk. When high school ended, and it came time to choose a collegiate home, the school I grew up loving lost out: Notre Dame offered me a level of opportunity that I could not turn down. I had a new love, and Rutgers was rele­gated to ‘second-best’ status. 
It is plainly obvious to me that my sit­uation is extremely common — and that not everyone here is a Notre Dame lifer. Among my quad-mates alone, there are strong allegiances to Ohio State, UCLA and Texas. I recall my roommate’s complete mental break­down as Notre Dame and UCLA battled in basketball in December 2009 as he watched two teams he loved try to destroy each other. 
Sunday was then — for me — the equivalent experience of my room­mate’s day of emotional torment, as our men’s basketball team battled Rutgers at the Purcell Pavilion in a game the Irish won 76-69. Walking to the arena, I didn’t know how I would feel. Rutgers basketball was perhaps the team I held closest to my heart out of all the Scarlet Knights programs. I attended a huge chunk of the team’s home games in courtside seats for more than a decade with my late grandfather, who was the biggest fan of them all — the Knights basketball team was ironically the last thing I ever spoke to him about. 
When the teams walked out on the court though, my internal allegiances felt clear. This was a Notre Dame team I was invested in, players I go to school with, colors that are becoming a part of me. I felt little for this Rutgers — a new coach, new players, uniforms that seemed design solely to purge the memory of the teams I loved. 
Perhaps this is how those of us who love other schools in addition to Notre Dame should look at these situations: on Sunday, there is no doubt who rep­resented me on the court. One side rep­resented all that was, another all that is in my life. I was born and raised in Scarlet and Black, but I am firmly Irish. And I think that’s okay. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

The pains of being good at math 
I dread every conversation that begins with “What’s your major?” and have toyed with the idea of picking a more socially acceptable major, such as medi­cine or law. 
After all, once I mention math, the 
Brooks Smith 
jig is up. Eyebrows raise, Humanity’s foreheads wrinkle Bro and then comes the inevitable next question: “What can you do with that?” Apparently one of the things I cannot do with math is: Have a good conversation. 
With people my age, of course, there’s no implied pejorative in having a “use­less” major. This is because most col­lege students are in the same boat — marking time till their forced ejection into adulthood. But with older people, say relatives or potential employers, there is an undeniable tone of disap­proval in the fact that I am seemingly wasting valuable resources — social, monetary, environmental — by educat­ing myself about such a manifestly worthless and uninteresting subject. Coming from these mouths, “What can you do with that?” really means “What right do you have to exist?” 
Never mind that the American econo­my sustains many people far more use­less and annoying than myself — 3OH!3, say, or Paris Hilton — in a man­ner vastly disproportionate to their redeeming social value (or lack thereof). And it is a curious fact that these inter­rogators, looking sternly down their noses at me, never seem to have thought too long or hard about the value of their own contributions to American society. 
But these are secondary considera­tions. So let me play my favorite game, devil’s advocate, for a moment. Why do I want to do math? If it offers little direct assistance to the survival of the human race, it offers even less to mine. I will never be rich (despite repeated entreaties from various family members to use my “giant brain” to make mil­lions playing the stock market or Texas Hold ‘Em). I will, to say the least, enjoy no reproductive advantages over my peers. Add the additional burden of fielding repeated questions about the utility or value of my chosen life’s work, and you have a recipe for … what? 
One answer I’ve been fond of recently is the “argument from global competi­tion,” which is that Americans are more poorly educated in math and science than people in other countries (includ­ing China and Russia) and that I’m going to devote myself to bridging the gap. This argument is a particularly sharp rhetorical tool because it subtly turns the tables on interrogators who have mentioned their own disgust with, or lack of aptitude for, mathematics. It implicitly accuses those who are mathe­matically illiterate and proud of it of contributing to our eventual takeover by the Communists. 
But to be honest I don’t have a great deal of personal investment in our country vanquishing other countries, academically, militarily or otherwise. The unvarnished truth about my rela­tionship to mathematics is that I enjoy doing it, and get the same aesthetic pleasure from a beautiful, well-proven theorem that I get from a Van Gogh painting or Shakespeare play. I could pontificate about the symmetry, ele­gance, and artistry that goes into a well-written piece of mathematics. I could write an immaculately sourced 10 page paper in MLA format proving that famous mathematicians live on in the historical record and retain name recognition (via textbooks or theorem names) much longer than their athlete, celebrity or even political/military coun­terparts. I could even state the obvious, which is that without advancements in ‘pure,’ ‘abstract’ mathematics, many of the technologies which we now enjoy would not even exist. But I’m sure everyone knows that. 
So my actual, personal answer to the question “What can you do with pure math?” is “Make a lasting contribution to human knowledge, with important consequences for math, physics, engi­neering and technology that will only be apparent 50-100 years after you, my interrogator, have passed away, and in the process achieve a modest immortal­ity. A life spent in the pursuit and con­templation of eternal verities sounds pretty good to me, even if that is not a type of career satisfaction which you, my interrogator, can understand.” With any luck, this long-winded, confronta­tional, unanswerable response will at the very least convince questioners to make small talk with someone else. 
Or startle them into forgetting the equally unanswerable follow-up, which is, “How will math pay off your student loans?” 
Brooks Smith is a senior studying honors mathematics at the University of Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What was your favorite Super Bowl commercial? Careerbuilder: Chimps driving Volkswagen: Young Vader Chrysler: Eminem/Detroit Bridgestone: Beaver/Karma Audi A8: Luxury prison break Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Never do anything when you are in a temper, for you will do everythingwrong.” 
Baltasar Gracian Spanish writer 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

Wednesday, February 9, 2011 page 7 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Be the Romeo to my Juliet 
Dearest Pierce, 

Reading your “Wanted: Valentine’s Date” (Feb. 7) ad brought tears to my eyes. I knew immediately, as if through a Divine message, that we are simply meant to be together. 
I’d love to be your Valentine — for you to take me to Hot Box or Barnaby’s (although I prefer an all-you­can-eat buffet) and “spoil me silly!” cos I’m worth it! I’m already woozy with anticipation! My parents, too, are totally excited to meet you at JPW. 
People always say that I’m a really special girl. I have a very large following in the yaoi community (I hope you don’t mind if I liveblog our date for them). Items on my bucket list include: competing in Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest, going out with you on February 14th (can you believe I’ve never had a date on Valentines, either!), and building a miniature Notre Dame campus for my hedgehogs. 
xoxox 

That Girl You’ve Been Looking For 
P.S. I hope you don’t mind prosthetic limbs. 
Britt Burgeson 
junior 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
Feb. 8 


In the absence of humor 
Dear PleasaNDville, 

I read your latest comic, in which you called out both The Tuesday Variety Show and The Mating Ritual. 
That’s pretty bold talk. 
You better step up your game. 
Best regards, 
Paul Dechant 
senior 
Dillon Hall 
Feb. 8 



Cupid’s courage 
Pierce Coticchia’s letter, “Wanted: Valentine’s date” (Feb. 7) exhibits the exact type of romantic courage men on the Notre Dame campus need to embody. I hope many eligible young fillies take Pierce up on his offer, and that many more bachelors take the same challenge next Monday. 
In Notre Dame, 

Henry Shine 
staff Investment Office Feb. 7 




Ramblers are practical 
I would like to comment on Knott sophomore Brian Metz’s horrible opinion of the Siegfried Hall Day of Man (“Practical men,” Feb. 8). As a former Rambler, a founding member of the event my freshman year and the commissioner of the event for my sopho­more, junior and senior years, I would like to convey why in fact a fundraiser for the homeless should in fact be aptly named “The Siegfried Hall Day of Man.” Although you do make good points, I would like to offer my opinion for why you are wrong. 
1. Unification: Stereotype of men as having to be tough, although you think it should be abolished, does exist and generally gets men excited about a worthy cause, such as helping the homeless. In ref­erence to the Day of Man, the tough connotation associated with the event is why over 70 percent of the dorm actively participates versus the standard eight to ten people that comprise all other Notre Dame fundraisers. 
2. 
Marketing: The idea of the Day of Man is to raise money and awareness for the homeless. Standing outside in sandals, shorts, and a T-shirt raises a lot more money and awareness then some­one wearing a coat. The idea of making this sacrifice convinces people into donating. 

3. 
Success: Each year, Siegfried has raised over $6,000 from standing outside alone. Regardless of what you say, the concept works and helps shelter, feed, and clothe the homeless so it is us, rather then they, who are standing outside in sandals, shorts and a T-shirt. 


Michael Dean 
alumnus Class of 2010 Feb. 8 


Be a man 
I was troubled by Brian Metz’s viewpoint yester­day (“Practical men,” Feb. 8) that disputed the notion that toughness is a prerequisite for man­hood. Mr. Metz seems to be offended that Siegfried promotes physical hardiness as a way to raise money for the homeless. 
First of all, Siegfried’s Day of Man is one of the greatest dorm traditions at Notre Dame. Not only is it unique, but it raises money for the local homeless shelter, and the criticism of that chari­table cause wasn’t necessary. 
While technically anyone with an X and Y chro­mosome who is at least 18 years old is a “man,” the true meaning is so much greater. I saw a sur­vey once that said that the average man cries twice a month (twice a month!) This type of behavior is nauseating and embarrassing to our culture. 
By the way, just watch how many women go for the feminine, sensitive guy who is afraid of his own shadow. Trust me, none of them do. 
As a Notre Dame student I am constantly reminded of the great men who helped shape this university: Fr. Sorin braving the miserable South Bend winter to establish Our Lady’s school; the dynasties of Rockne and Leahy who coached a tough, smash-mouth brand of Irish football. Just look at the statue of Fr. Corby or the Stonehenge Memorial fountain as a tribute to the brave men who gave the ultimate sacrifice defending free­dom. These are just some examples of genuine toughness and manhood that almost doesn’t exist anymore. 
Imagine if Father Sorin was too cold in 1842 and decided not to found Notre Dame. Imagine if Lombardi’s Packers quit on the one-yard line with 10 seconds left in the Ice Bowl because it was 15 below. 
It isn’t “phallocentric” or “discriminatory” to hold men to a certain standard of masculinity. The absence of true manhood is a serious prob­lem in our society. We need throwback men who are tough and know how to take charge. Men who are responsible, courageous and resilient. Men who still practice chivalry, but also know how to kick ass and take names. Men who know how to tie a Windsor knot and don’t know what condi­tioner is used for. 
Thank you, Siegfried, for keeping manhood alive in 2011. Let them be an example for all men to rub some dirt on it. Be tough. Be man of tradition. 
Sean Mullen 
junior 
Keough Hall 
Feb. 8 




EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 


Scene

page 8 Wednesday, February 9, 2011 
By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 

The Pasquerilla East Music Company (PEMCo.) has taken on a daunting feat. Its choice of spring musical is none other than “Chicago.” The Broadway edition won a Tony Award for Best Revival in 1996 and the Hollywood film version won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 2002. Despite the high standard set by previous renditions of the musical, PEMCo. manages to make the musical feel new and asserts the relevance of the film nearly a century after the real life events inspiring the play actually transpired. 
There’s something indefinable that makes student productions. Producer Joe Augustinsky said this is “because it is held together by the blood, sweat and tears of college students who want nothing more than to put on a show.” There’s a passion for theater in this show that cannot quite be captured by the film version, though one can only hope no blood was actually spilt over this production. 
The show is different in more tangi­ble ways as well. For one, musical director John Kemnetz said that the cast and crew “weren’t looking for a vaudeville-style show with corny dance numbers and overacting … we looked instead to create more of a musical cabaret.” 
“A great concern for everyone involved in the production is the fact that people may come to see the show expecting it to be just like the movie,” said Lesley Sullivan, who plays Velma Kelly. “It is not just like the movie; it is more. More songs, more dances, more comedy and only slightly less well-known celebrities.” 

The style of the show is certainly much less flashy than the film version. 
“Traditionally Chicago is done with a minimalistic set and costume design,” director and choreographer Kristen Steel said. “We stayed true to that idea with one large set piece and relatively simple costumes.” 
It may not be what one expects to hear from the director of a show all about glamorized murder trial, but it certainly allows the cast to shine in the world they have created. They aren’t over­burdened by their sur­roundings but instead create memo­rable characters through their own talent. 
Creating a believ­able char­acter could prove to be a diffi­cult task for an actor who has seen someone por­tray the very same person to the acclaim of acting’s most prestigious institutions. Sullivan and Nora Collins, who plays Roxie Hart, both succeed­ed at the task. 
“I’ve really tried to make Roxie my own,” Collins said. “I put myself in the 
character’s position and have made some decisions that are similar to Renee Zellweger’s character choices in the movie version but I think I have also done a good job making the role unique to me.” 
Sullivan also contrasted her approach to the role to the movie ver­sion. 
“Though at first there was pressure to try to live up to Catherine Zeta-Jones, there is no one way to play the role and no one person who is made for it,” Sullivan said. “Seems obvious. But once I realized that I was making this character for this audience, the pressure was off.” 
The setting of Chicago in the Prohibition era seems so foreign and glamorous that it offered the actors plenty of room to discover something in the era that appealed to them. “It is so fun to experiment with all the old hair­styles, makeup trends and fashion,” Collins said. “The old Chicago slang of the ’20s even sneaks its way in a few scenes which is always fun.” 
Though the play is all about the 1920s, it has themes that persist today. It is all about fame and how certain people can capture the attention of an entire nation. Kemnetz said he believes it is particularly relevant to Notre Dame students. 
“It’s no great secret that the Notre Dame community will do crazy things when it comes to celebrities — every­thing from running after Taylor Swift’s golf cart to genuinely believing that Jimmy Clausen is attractive,” Kemnetz said. “In an age where we sexualize a 15-year-old Bieber and refresh celebri­ty blogs continuously to see Lindsay Lohan’s latest drug bender, Chicago tells us much about our obsession with people who commit crimes.” 


On campus 
What: “Chicago”Where: Washington Hall When: 7 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10, Friday, Feb. 11 and Saturday, Feb. 12 How much: $6, available at LaFortune Box Office 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene

Wednesday, Feburary 9, 2011 page 9 

Let’s talk about sex. 

Specifically, let’s talk about sex on television. I will tell you right now, I’ve reconciled my personal decisions and religious opinions with the fact that television is firmly committed to constantly exer­cising and explor­ing the implica­tions of free love. I acknowledge that, in order to enjoy the sar­donic and philo­sophical wit of “House,” I have to deal with Chase asking Cameron (season two) and Thirteen (current season) if they, you know, want to have sex. I accept that in order to squeal like a fangirl over Damon in “The Vampire Diaries,” I have to watch ever-so­casual teen sex between Elena and Stephan. I’m over it. 
Sort of. Yesterday I worked out in my dorm’s exercise room, bemoaning the fact that since the elliptical was in use, I was relegated to the equipment of the lower class, i.e., the exercise bike. (Who on earth ever thought an exercise bike was a good idea? I’ll kill my thighs for some fresh air, but come on, it’s worse than a treadmill!) 

As I ascended the Throne of Pain, (I was in my gym clothes; I was commit­ted), I began to pay attention to what was on the screen. 
Usually when I exercise, I hold my laptop on the consol and watch an episode of television. I can use head­phones and avoid the otherwise-nec­essary closed captions, and I never have to negotiate with anyone over what we watch. Hey, I’m a television major. If you don’t want to watch what I want to watch, you’re going 
down. wasn’t fun. As 
Unfortunately, balancing a laptop soon as a cou­doesn’t really jell with riding a bike. ple began to So instead of “Parks and Recreation,” kiss, the game I was going to watch my fellow excer-was over. I cisee’s season three DVDs of “Gossip already knew how Girl.” it ended, because it 
I know the series vaguely enough to would end the same name the charac-way it always ters but have no ends. They idea who they are have sex. The currently dating. end. Well, until My lack of opinion someone about one relation-cheats, or falls ship or another out of love, made this episode misses a birth-a microcosm of day or what objective studies in have you. television sex. There was no Serena and Nate anticipation, were about to start no tension. As dating — or were soon as they? They wanted to take it slow, so they slept together three times in 40 minutes. But not without questioning their relationship in between, and even going to a party with different dates (all to discover they’re meant for each other, of course). 
I know this is “Gossip Girl.” I know this is what they do. I know the prem­ise of tangled sexual relations is the basis of the show’s success. But as I 
watched, I 
realized — it Serena’s shirt comes off, you might as well just go to the next scene, because no one is going to stop, no one is going to have second thoughts, no one is going to ask questions. It’s a blind will to passion that has lost its pas­sion simply in its monotony. 

I’m not asking television to lose the sex. That’s like asking the Subway in LaFortune to offer $5 foot-longs. But what I do ask is that there be some sort of variation. Give me a pair of teenagers who break up without hav­ing slept together. Or who, I don’t know, talk about the implications of sex for two seconds before it happens. Something to acknowledge that sex, however casual you want it to be, is a big deal, no matter how many times it happens or how many boyfriends you’ve had. 
By bombarding the audience with it, you’ve numbed us. By the end of the third act of that “Gossip Girl” episode, I was bored. Bored by sex! Can you believe it? It wasn’t interesting any­more. And, as any television major will tell you, the goal of every televi­sion show is to keep our interest. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 9, 2011 
NBA 

Roy hopes to return from knee surgery this weekend 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. — Guard Brandon Roy is returning to practice and wants to rejoin the Trail Blazers as soon as this weekend, but he’ll have to prove himself first. 
Portland’s three-time All-Star had arthroscopic surgery on both of his knees just three weeks ago and coach Nate McMillan says he wants to see Roy at work before making a decision. 
Portland, coming off a 109­103 victory over the Chicago Bulls, had the day off on Tuesday. They’ll practice at home on Wednesday before heading to Toronto for Friday night’s game against the Raptors. 
“I can’t really predict the future, but right now they (the knees) feel good,” Roy said. “The biggest thing is once I start playing I have to keep them at a level where I feel good about going out there and helping this team.” 
Roy was averaging 16.6 points in 23 games before he was sidelined indefinitely by the team. He says now he is nearly pain free, but still needs to practice at full speed. 
His announcement has sparked debate over whether it is too soon to return. It also has implications for forward LaMarcus Aldridge, whose play has vastly improved since Portland began running its offense through him. 
Last season, Roy had arthro­scopic surgery to repair the meniscus in his right knee two days before the Blazers opened their first-round playoff series against Phoenix. He made a remarkable comeback and played in the fourth game of the series, which the Suns eventually won. 
Some suggested that perhaps he returned too soon from that surgery, and is being too hasty this time around, too. 
Roy has said the problem is too little cartilage in both his knees. 
Although Roy was hopeful to be on the court against Toronto, or perhaps in Detroit on Sunday, he vowed to listen to doctors after testing his knee at practice. And when he does return, he’ll ease himself back, he said. 
“I’m going to try to get through these practices and when we’re in Toronto I’m sure we’ll sit down and come up with an amount of minutes. I’m sure he (McMillan) is going to want to keep it low when I first come back,” Roy said. 
Roy hasn’t played since Dec. 
15. That’s when Portland start­ed to go to Aldridge, who has averaged 25.4 points and 10.2 rebounds since then. The Blazers are 16-10 without Roy. 
In the victory over the Bulls, Aldridge had a career-high 42 points. He said afterward that the Blazers need Roy back. 
“A lot of guys have been playing a lot of minutes, so get­ting Brandon back should be good for us,” Aldridge said. 
Roy weighed in: “I think we are always just going to try to help each other play well. The goal is always to try to win. I don’t know how we’re going to run plays or anything yet. I just want to come back and get out there and get my legs back.” 
Word of Roy’s return was first reported by The Oregonian newspaper shortly before the Blazers took on the Bulls. After the game, McMillan suggested that Roy wasn’t the only one coming back — center Marcus Camby would be practicing this week, too. 
Camby had arthroscopic sur­gery on his right knee on Jan. 
20. He was averaging 5.9 points and 11.3 rebounds in 39 games this season. 
“Bandon and Camby have decided when they’re coming back. We have these couple of days where we’re going to practice. I’ll see if these guys show up for practice and we’ll go from there,” McMillan said. “As far as playing this week­end, that hasn’t been decided yet.” 
The Blazers have been dogged by injuries for the sec­ond straight season. 
In November, the team announced that center Greg Oden, the No. 1 draft pick in 2007, would miss the season because of microfracture sur­gery on his left knee. Oden missed his rookie year because of microfracture surgery on his right knee. 

Second-year forward Jeff Pendergraph injured his knee in the preseason and required season-ending surgery. And rookie guard Elliot Williams has undergone surgery this season on both knees. 
Last season Blazers players collectively missed more games than any team in the NBA except the Warriors. 
NFL 



Steelers look to move past Super Bowl loss 
facial hair surely would have The Steelers, like most NFL out of a side door of the prac-two, because I don’t how you 

Associated Press 
kept him warm during a Super players, are worried about tice facility wearing a scarf deal with it,” Hoke said. “It 

PITTSBURGH — With his Bowl parade that would have what will happen with OTAs, and his AFC champions ball-makes you so much happier season over, Brett Keisel is been held on a frigid Tuesday minicamps, health insurance cap, but no coat, on a brisk you won the first two. It’s ready to scrap his scruffy had the Steelers beat the and other necessities when the day where the wind chill was tough to lose Super Bowls. You style. Packers in the Super Bowl. collective bargaining agree-below zero. get there, you dream of being 
Forget “Fear the Beard.” Instead, his whiskers will ment expires March 3. Tomlin waved before he on top of that podium holding 
Much to the disappointment soon swirl down the drain like “Hey man, you better save slipped into his SUV and that trophy, passing it around, of the bushy growth’s nearly the Steelers’ championship some money, just in case,” backed it up to the doors of the celebrating with your team­30,000 Facebook fans, it’s time dreams. defensive end Nick Eason said. practice facility to load some mates.” to “Shear the Beard.” Keisel and the Steelers had “A lot of things have changed. belongings. He then tipped his Hoke hopes to return and 
“It’s coming off soon,” Keisel one final team meeting I mean, we’ve been taken care cap as he drove out of the expects to find most of his said outside the Steelers prac-Tuesday, determined to put of through our health insur-parking lot. teammates back with him for tice facility. “I’m not exactly their crushing Super Bowl loss ance, and things like that, and Inside team headquarters, the new season — whenever sure when or how it’s going to to Green Bay behind them. we’re going to have that no the Steelers’ six Super Bowl that starts. Linebacker LaMarr happen. But it’s going to come Players stuffed belongings in longer. So it’s time to save, trophies stand together along Woodley and cornerback Ike off soon. It was a good thing. I black trash bags and zoomed time to not buy cars and spend the wall leading to various Taylor are two top free agents. think looking back, I wouldn’t off into an uncertain offseason. money.” offices. The 31-25 loss to the The Steelers want to re-sign change it.” Almost 48 hours after the Tomlin, of course, wasn’t Packers assured there will be both. 
Win or lose the Super Bowl, loss, coach Mike Tomlin met around to talk about the meet-no more additions to that col-Under the Rooney family, the Keisel’s lumberjack look was with the Steelers and told ing. Same with Ben lection this offseason. Steelers have long been fond in for a makeover. them the franchise remains Roethlisberger and Troy Hoke, a free agent after 10 of stability. And Art Rooney 
He had promised not to cut committed toward winning the Polamalu. The Steelers let two years with the Steelers, was a has already said not to expect or trim the reddish-brown Lombardi Trophy. players talk to the media at key component in their last many changes. beard as long as the Steelers He also addressed some vari-the podium: Antwaan Randle two championships. And, of Who knows. Maybe Keisel’s kept winning. So, Keisel can ous rules and restrictions that El and Chris Hoke. course, he expected to extend mangy mane might be the bust out the clippers this would come if owners decide About an hour after the the perfect record on Sunday. biggest offseason transforma­week, though his full-bodied to move ahead with a lockout. meeting ended, Tomlin walked “I’m glad we won the first tion. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 

For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: 
http://csap.nd.edu 
——————————————— 

FOR RENT 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: 
House for rent for graduation/JPW/weddings,football, etc. Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons-walk to everything-safe family ori­ented street. Email nd-house@sbc­global.net for additional info and photos ——————————————— A hospital bed is a parked taxi with the meter running. 
A woman is an occasional pleasure but a cigar is always a smoke. 
Either this man is dead or my watch has stopped. 
——————————————— I never forget a face, but in your case I'll be glad to make an excep­tion. 
I sent the club a wire stating, PLEASE ACCEPT MY RESIGNA­TION. I DON'T WANT TO BELONG TO ANY CLUB THAT WILL ACCEPT ME AS A MEMBER 
———————————————. 
Outside of a dog, a book is man's best friend. Inside of a dog it's too dark to read. 
She got her looks from her father. He's a plastic surgeon. 
-Groucho Marx 
——————————————— 

Wednesday, February 9, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 

PGA TOUR 

Tour golfers still wary of Tiger on course 


Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Magic cen­ter Dwight Howard said he is annoyed by the recent talk about his contract and the pos­sibility he would leave Orlando when he becomes a free agent. 
Howard expounded on some recent Twitter comments Tuesday morning at the Magic’s practice before Tuesday night’s game against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
He said his situation should not be compared to what hap­pened with Miami’s LeBron James or what is going on with Denver’s Carmelo Anthony because they “have nothing to do with Dwight Howard.” 
Howard said he’s “really tired of” the contract talk and that he wants “to help this franchise win a championship.” 
Howard’s current contract runs through the 2012-13 sea­son, but he could utilize an early termination option and become a free agent after next season. 
“Yeah, I am annoyed,” Howard said. “I can’t sign a contract this year. I can’t sign anywhere this summer, so why keep bringing it up? Why are people talking about me going any other place right now? Right now is about this season. It’s not about L.A., New York or whatever. I’m really tired of it. I don’t wanna be talking about where I’m gonna be playing basketball next or people in Orlando asking me ‘Are you going to leave us?”’ 
Magic fan Mike Philpot sent Howard this message via Twitter on Monday afternoon: “D12 be different. Stay in Orlando. You can own this city. See Jordan and Tim Duncan for examples.” 
Howard responded with: “I never said I wanted to leave stop reading the rumors. It’s really stupid. And annoying to be honest. They tryna make something outta nothing I have another yr under my contract before I can sign.” 
On Tuesday, when asked about the Twitter exchange, Howard expressed even more discontent about recent reports that have surfaced in the past few weeks about his future. There have been reports that Howard is flirting with the idea of going to larger markets like New York or Los Angeles should Orlando not win an NBA title. 
“I never said anything about leaving,” Howard said. “I never said anything about me not 


Associated Press 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 
— Lee Westwood and Martin Kaymer -the two highest-ranked golfers -insist Tiger Woods remains the biggest draw and his return to top form can only be good for the game. 
“When I’m not playing a tour­nament and I’m watching, say, somewhere in the States, I’m watching how Tiger is playing,” the top-ranked Westwood said. “I’m seeing if he’s playing well. He’s exciting to watch for every­body.” 
Westwood, Kaymer and the third-ranked Woods play this week at the Dubai Desert Classic. The three will be grouped for the first two rounds at Emirates Golf Course. This is the first time since 1994 the world’s top three golfers are playing together in a European Tour event. 
Woods’ five-tournament win­ning streak at Torrey Pines ended last month after a final-round 75 left him tied for 44th. It was his worst start to a season since he turned pro and follows a year in which he failed to win at least one tournament for the first time and his marriage ended following extramarital affairs. 
His struggles have raised doubts about whether at age 35 he will ever ascend to the level that brought him 14 majors, especially considering the rise of such players as the 26-year-old Kaymer. 
Kaymer says such talk is pre­mature. 
“He’s the best player in the game,” Kaymer said. “At the moment, Lee and me, we are No. 1 and 2. But in every golfer’s mind, he is the best player in the world. And it would be fantastic if he can get back to where he was and then we challenge him.” 
The German said he would rel­ish the chance to play alongside Woods for the first time. Kaymer said the media shouldn’t give Woods “such a hard time,” adding that he has a lot of respect for him and “we are very thankful for what he did for golf.” 
“We are not enemies on the golf course. We don’t like to see people suffering,” Kaymer said. “Of course, you want to win on Sunday, but we don’t like to win a golf tournament when some­body screws up. 
“The way I won in Abu Dhabi, winning by eight shots, that’s a great win and that makes me happy. But it would not make me happy if Tiger finishes with a double bogey and an 89 and I win by one (stroke).” 
Mark O’Meara, a friend of Woods and also playing in Dubai, predicts Woods will win several tournaments this year and possi­bly a major. 
“I’d never underestimate what Tiger is capable of doing,” he said. “He may not be swinging the best. He may not be the most confident player right now. But saying all that, Tiger being Tiger, he has fought back before and he will fight back from this.” 
On Tuesday, Woods and O’Meara won the nine-hole, par­3 Challenge Match by two shots, beating Westood and Miguel Angel Jimenez. Noh Seung-yul and Jeev Milkha Singh were a further shot back. 
Woods is not the only one hav­ing a rough start to the season. Westwood finished 64th in a European Tour event in Abu Dhabi last month then missed the cut in last week’s Qatar Masters. 
Westwood, who supplanted Woods at No. 1 in October, attributes his troubles to a lin­gering calf injury and time off over Christmas. 
“When you don’t work on your swing, you go back to your faults, and that’s what’s hap­pened the last couple of weeks on tour in Abu Dhabi and Qatar,” said Westwood, who on Thursday was given lifetime membership on the European Tour. “I needed to do a little bit of work on that, and I’m starting to get a bit of it in place.” 
Westwood could lose the top spot this week if Kaymer wins and he finishes lower than sec­ond, and if Kaymer finishes sec­ond and Westwood is out of the top 10. If Kaymer is tied for sec­ond, he could still become No. 1 if Westwood finishes out of the top 36. Woods could leapfrog Kaymer if he wins and Kaymer finishes outside the top five. 
Kaymer and Westwood say they’re priority is winning the tournament. 
“Let’s ignore the world rank­ing. The clear and present dan­ger is not Martin Kaymer,” Westwood said. “The issue for me is to play well, get my game in better order than it has been the last two weeks and try and win the Dubai Desert Classic. End of story.” 
NBA 




Howard annoyed by rumors 
being happy here or me ‘pulling a LeBron’ like people say on Twitter. But I’m just really tired of it. I want to help this franchise win a champi­onship.” 
Howard also doesn’t want to be compared to how James handled his departure from Cleveland or what is happening with Anthony in Denver. 
“That’s Carmelo and LeBron,” Howard said. “That has nothing to do with Dwight Howard. I’m focused on this season. This is the moment right here. When we get down the road to 2012 or whenever when it’s time to sign, then we can talk about that stuff. But as for now, I don’t wanna be talk­ing about it. There’s no need to bring up what’s gonna happen in the future. 
“We can’t go to the future right now anyway.” 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 2011 
NFL 
NFL 
Saints fans react to 



Munchak fres three coaches 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Titans coach Mike Munchak has fired offensive coordinator Mike Heimerdinger along with two other assistants as he starts to remake his coaching staff a day after taking over the top job. 
Heimerdinger, who is continu­ing cancer treatment after diag­nosed in November, confirmed to The Associated Press on Tuesday that he had been fired. The Titans released a statement a couple hours later that Munchak also told defensive assistant Rayna Stewart and offensive assistant Richie Wessman that they will not be retained. 
“It’s never easy to be fired,” Heimerdinger said. “He has to do what’s good for the Titans, and Munch will do what’s best for the Titans. I appreciate my time here, but it’s never easy to be fired.” 
The Titans gave Munchak the freedom to keep or hire anyone he wants and he promised changes when he was introduced on Monday. He let go the coordi­nator who was the second coach interviewed to replace Jeff Fisher. Munchak said it wasn’t an easy move involving a man he respects as an innovative offensive mind and for how he has fought can­cer. 
“We have worked well through the years, but I believe we need to go in a different direction at offensive coordinator,” Munchak said. “This wasn’t about his health -he is feeling good -it is a change of direction for us. This is not something that I take lightly and I wish him and his family the best.” 
The Titans also defended them­selves for firing a man with can­cer. Senior executive vice presi-


Sean Payton’s move 
dent Steve Underwood said in the 
team’s statement that the Titans immediately offered to extend Heimerdinger’s contract when he diagnosed. Heimerdinger was under contract for 2011. 
“We will honor Mike’s existing agreement with our club and continue to wish him a complete recovery,” Underwood. 
This now gives Munchak eight openings to fill on his coaching staff. Fisher had fired defensive coordinator Chuck Cecil last month, while the defensive line coach, running backs coach and wide receivers assistant all left for other jobs. Former teammate Bruce Matthews, now an assis­tant in Houston, is expected to be Munchak’s top target to fill his old job with the offensive line. 
The news brought almost instant reaction Tuesday. 



Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Sean Payton is moving his family to Dallas and the Saints have no problem with it — however, many New Orleans fans do. 
Payton confirmed Tuesday that he buying a house in Dallas and is moving his wife and two children to Texas while he remains the Saints’ head coach. 
“When my wife and I relocat­ed our family from Dallas, we had always dreamed of some­day settling there,” Payton said is a statement released by the team. “We feel that now is the best time to do this. It’s a deci­sion that I’m sure many families have to confront, and I don’t know if there is any one right or wrong decision — just the best one you can make for your own family.” 
The decision is not sitting will with numerous Saints fans who’ve expressed consternation and confusion over the matter on call-in shows and internet chat sites. 
Saints owner Tom Benson and Mickey Loomis both issed state­ments of support and sounded confident that Payton was com­mitted to sticking with the club that first made him a head coach in January of 2006. 
“Sean is our head coach,” Benson said. “Like we do with everyone in our organization, we support them when they need to make tough personal decisions. Sean is making a decision in the best interest of his family and he needs our support and he will get it. What I do know is that Sean is com­pletely focused on bringing our team back to a championship.” 
Loomis pointed out that it is not uncommon for coaches to coach in one city while their permanent home is in another. 
Former Colts coach Tony Dungy did so with the Colts while his family lived in Florida. In the NBA, current New Jersey Nets coach Avery Johnson maintains his permanent home in Texas. 
“This is a personal family matter for Sean and his family and after discussing it with him, I support his decision,” Loomis said. “We spoke of numerous other coaches that have done the same thing successfully. I am confident that Sean will con­tinue to be an excellent head coach for the Saints for many years to come and he remains steadfast to get our team back to the Super Bowl and bring the Lombardi Trophy back to New Orleans.” 
Even if that is the case, New Orleans is unlike any other NFL city because of the bond between fans and the team. The relationship has transcended the action on the gridiron since Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans. 
Payton has taken a public relations beating the last 24 hours as rumors about his fami­ly’s move began to circulate and fester for more than a day before he finally issued a state­ment. 
Readers of the Times­Picayune’s web site, nola.com, posted hundreds of messages on the subject, many expressing disenchantment with a coach they had seen as a pillar of the community. 
Because Payton had been an assistant coach in Dallas from 2003-05 and maintains a friendly relationship with Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, numerous fans worried that Payton may have designs on returning to his former employ­er. 
Others were simply insulted and accused the coach of hypocrisy. Not only had Payton played a leading role in helping the Saints promote their mission to rebuild the city since Hurricane Katrina, he had also published a book, after the 2010 Super Bowl triumph, entitled: “Home Team — Coaching the Saints and New Orleans Back To Life.” 
Now Payton is making a change that many interpret as the coach essentially saying their town is no longer good enough for the coach’s wife, Beth, and their two children, Meghan and Connor. 
The subject dominated call-in shows, where some wondered allowed whether Payton was having trouble with his mar­riage, while others urged angry fans to stay out of the coach’s personal business and give him the benefit of the doubt. 
In his book, Payton recalled that when he was hired by the Saints, he considered keeping his family in Dallas, but the Saints refused, fearful it would send the wrong message. Payton wrote that he realized then that, if one was going to join the Saints after Katrina, they had to be “All in.” 

Wednesday, February 9, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 

Junior guard Natalie Novosel shakes off a defender during Notre Dame’s 89-38 victory 
over Seton Hall on Tuesday in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Diggins 
continued from page 16 
14 points, six rebounds, seven assists and five steals. 
“She’s doing everything,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “And she’s just beginning to peak.” 
Led by Diggins and a 16­point performance by junior guard Natalie Novosel, six total Irish players scored in double-digits, as Notre Dame shot 64 percent from the floor. 
Senior guard Brittany Mallory scored 13 points, freshman forward Natalie Achonwa scored 12 and senior forwards Devereaux Peters and Becca Bruszewski each added 12. 
“We played a really good team game today,” Novosel said. 
The Pirates (7-16, 0-10) won the tip-off but could not score despite three offensive rebounds in the first minute of the game. Bruszewski grabbed the rebound off of the Pirates fourth shot and fed the ball to Diggins, who scored the first layup of the game. 
The Irish raced to a 26-7 lead and were up 44-23 at halftime. 
“We finally got the ball, we got it going, … people were just really finding each other today,” Diggins said. 
Seton Hall forward Kandice Green went down with a left ankle injury after 3:34 and did not return to the game. Pirates coach Anne Donovan said Green’s loss was a big blow to the team. 
“All confidence at that point was gone,” she said. “… We had a lot of different defenses we wanted to try but Kandice is the catalyst in most of those.” 
Pirates guard Jasmine Crew led her team with 10 points. 
The game marked a turn for Notre Dame’s defense, which McGraw had been unhappy with after the South Florida game. Seton Hall shot just 24.6 percent from the floor and committed 24 turnovers, which Notre Dame took advantage of for 36 points. 
“Me personally, I get more upset giving up a basket than making one, because you let your team down that way,” Novosel said. “When every­body’s working together, it really feeds into your offense.” 
Donovan said she expected Notre Dame to put pressure on her team, but still wasn’t pre­pared by the Irish defense. 
“We showed tape, we prac­ticed it for two days, and it went completely out the win­dow,” she said. 
Notre Dame faces Rutgers (13-9, 6-3) Saturday in its annual Pink Zone game, which raises funds for organizations that focus on breast cancer education, screening, support and research. According to the Pink Zone website, www.und.com/pinkzone, the effort has already raised $59,985 this season. Last sea­son’s total eclipsed $100,000. 
A silent auction for Pink Zone begins at 12:30 p.m., and tip­off is at 2 p.m. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Junior Samuel Keeton lunges for a ball during his three-set win at the No. 4 position against Duke Feb. 6 at Notre Dame. 
No. 71 Havens claimed the “Michigan State will pose a next and clinching victory difficult test for us,” Bayliss 


Andrews 
for the 6-3, 5-7, 6-2 over said. “They beat No. 21 Martin at No. 2 singles. Wake Forest last week, and 
continued from page 16 

Junior Sam Keeton won by they have courts that are give the Irish a 3-1 advan-retirement at No. 5 singles faster than ours. We have tage with the other matches over Ask, 2-6, 6-4, 5-2. had a tough stretch here, coming down to a third set. The Irish will take the that can only make us 
Stahl came up with the courts again in East Lansing stronger.” next win for the Irish in a for a double header against third set defeating Bertha at Marquette and Michigan Contact Kate Grabarek at No. 3 singles 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. State Saturday. kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 
Court will not block Vikings’ suspensions 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — The Minnesota Court of Appeals ruled Tuesday that it won’t per­manently block the NFL from suspending Vikings defensive tackles Kevin Williams and Pat Williams for violating the league’s anti-doping policy. 
Barring another appeal, the ruling appears to clear the way for the NFL to suspend the play­ers, which it has been trying to do since both tested positive for a banned diuretic in 2008. The players have been fighting their suspensions and could appeal the latest decision to the state Supreme Court. 
Peter Ginsberg, an attorney for both players, said early Tuesday he had not talked to his clients and wasn’t sure whether they would seek another appeal. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said the NFL is reviewing the decision and determining how to proceed. 
The Williamses, who are not related, tested positive in 2008 for bumetanide, a banned diuretic that can mask the pres­ence of steroids that was in the StarCaps weight-loss supple­ment they were taking. They were not accused of taking steroids and said they didn’t know the diuretic was in the supplement. 
The players sued the NFL in state court, saying it violated state labor law. Their suspen­sions have been on hold while the case has been playing out in state and federal courts. 
Last May, Hennepin County District Judge Gary Larson ruled the NFL broke state law when it failed to notify the play­ers of their positive test results within the mandated three days. But the judge also declined to permanently block the NFL from suspending the players, saying they weren’t harmed by the notification delays. 
The players appealed, asking that the suspensions be perma­nently blocked. 
A three-judge panel of the appeals court affirmed the lower court’s decision to deny permanent relief from the sus­pensions — but had different reasons for its decision. 
The appeals court ruled that bumetanide isn’t defined as a drug under state law, so the NFL wasn’t required to tell the players of its presence in the drug tests. 
According to the 11-page decision, the Williamses provid­ed urine samples for drug test­ing during their annual physical exams in 2008. The samples for each player were divided into separate bottles for testing pur­poses. Once an initial test read positive for bumetanide, the other samples were tested to confirm the presence of the diuretic. 
The appeals court ruled that since the purpose of those con­firmatory tests was solely to detect the presence of bumetanide — which state law doesn’t define as a drug — there is no legal basis for the court to find that the NFL violated the state’s notification require­ments. 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 2011 


The Irish have won eight 
straight, including an easy 80-58 defeat of No. 16 Georgetown on continued from page 16 Jan. 18 and tonight’s complete destruction of Seton Hall. But the of the season are going to matter. games leading up to Tuesday’s tilt 
After a home game against with the Pirates showed some Rutgers Saturday, Notre Dame weaknesses on both sides of the will have a week off. The last four ball. games come in a stretch of just 10 Irish coach Muffet McGraw said days, and look something like this: she had addressed her concerns 
u At No. 2 Connecticut, which during practice, and her players leads Notre Dame in the Big East strongly agreed. standings by one game. “When Coach is happy, every-
u On national television at No. body’s happy,” junior guard 17 West Virginia, which tonight Natalie Novosel said, humorously held Connecticut to just 57 points alluding to what goes on at prac­
in a close, 57-51 loss. tice when McGraw isn’t so cheer-
u Against Cincinnati at home, ful. which should be a break for the Tuesday night, at least, McGraw Irish providing it doesn’t get over-was in a good mood. 
looked. “Offensively it’s probably the 
u On national television at No. best game we’ve played together 14 DePaul, which is right behind in maybe the last two games,” she Notre Dame in the Big East stand-said. “I was happy with both ends 
Rutgers 
Knights (12-11, 3-8), recording Kyle Kuric, who went for 19 ings. of the floor.” 
his fifth double-double of the points and was 3-5 from 3­
Four days later, the Irish will be The team came together, capi­year with 12 points and 11 point range. The junior has 
Knights 
in Hartford, Conn. for the Big East talizing on each other’s successes rebounds. Meanwhile, senior averaged 14.3 points per game 
tournament. When they actually and making up for each other’s guard Ben Hansbrough has in his last three contests while 
continued from page 16 

start playing is what’s up for mistakes. It was by no means a thrilling 91-89 double-over-stayed hot after adding 25 shooting 44-percent from 
grabs. perfect effort; the team overthrew time win at Freedom Hall last points against Rutgers. In his beyond the arc on the year. 

Notre Dame has yet to beat a several passes, committed 19 year, something that Irish last four games, the Irish’s Knowles, averaging nearly 15 
ranked team on the road this turnovers and missed 10 free coach Mike Brey vowed to leading scorer has averaged points per game, is expected to 
year, but will need to get over that throws. remind his team of prior to the 24.0 points and 5.3 assists per be healthy after sitting out 
hurdle soon. While a top four seed But when you’re talking about game. game, leading Notre Dame to Saturday’s game with a ham-
and byes in the first two rounds in perfection from a basketball “It’s interesting since the sole possession of second place string injury along with sopho­
the Big East tournament looks standpoint, 70 percent shooting [previous] Louisville game in the Big East behind No. 4 more speedster Peyton Silva, 

likely at this point, it’s not locked from the field after 32 minutes what this nucleus has done Pittsburgh. who struggled through back 
up. might qualify. McGraw’s explana­and I’ll make sure they know “With this veteran group, we spasms in his last two games. 

The Irish stand second in the tion for not having enough offen­that before the game,” Brey are able to ride different guys The Cardinals are shooting just 

Big East with a 10-1 record, and sive rebounds on the stat sheet said in a press conference for a while,” Brey said. “We under 37 percent from 3-point 
DePaul is right behind at 9-1. was simply that they didn’t miss Monday. are not the quickest group out range this season. 

Beyond those two, three teams — enough shots. All this veteran Irish team there but we are pretty smart “[The Cardinals] are really 
Marquette, Georgetown and Sophomore point guard Skylar has done since then is win, as to getting a feel as to what using the 3-point line as their 

Rutgers — each have conference Diggins, who played her most going 25-6 overall and 16-0 at [other teams] are trying to do mode of getting going,” Brey 
records of 7-3. complete game of the season the Purcell Pavilion, where to us.” said. “For us, we need to con-One loss in the next five games, Tuesday, said the Irish are getting they host the Cardinals tonight. The Cardinals are coming off trol the tempo and watch out 

then, wouldn’t hurt. Two should better every day. “Mentally we put ourselves of a 61-57 win over DePaul on for guys on the arc.” 
keep Notre Dame in the top four. Notre Dame already has a good in the right position to win and Saturday, where they squeaked Louisville hopes to end Notre 
Three, and there’s a possibility chance in each of its next five we just go out and put up a by despite the absence of their Dame’s five-game win streak 
someone else slips in. games. If it can continue to fight each and every time,” top scorer, senior guard while the Irish will try to con-

Notre Dame lost four Big East improve every game, to minimize senior forward Carleton Scott Preston Knowles, and top tinue their dominance at home 
games last season, just enough to errors and play complete team said of the change in pace rebounder, sophomore forward tonight at 7 p.m. in the Purcell 
fall to a No. 5-seed in the confer-basketball, it should be able to since the loss to the Cardinals Rakeem Buckles. Pavilion. 
ence tournament. It faced No. 1-come out on the other side of the 

a season ago. Cardinals’ coach Rick Pitino’s 
seed Connecticut in the semifinals, regular season having finally Scott was a key contributor squad, however, found solace Contact Andrew Gastelum at 
and lost. proved it can do more than simply in the victory over the Scarlet in sharpshooting junior guard agaste11@nd.edu 

Now, none of these road games, hang around with the toughest even the one in Storrs, should be competition. looked at as automatic losses. The Irish played Connecticut closer The views expressed in than any other Big East team has this column are those of the this year. author and not necessarily 
But none of the games should those of The Observer. be looked at as automatic wins, Contact Laura Myers at either. lmyers2@nd.edu 
really excited.” Hirt said her family has 
Hirt 
been a major reason for much of her running success, and 
continued from page 16 
they still attend several events come back from a long run each year to cheer her on. She and you’re exhausted, but I’ve said their constant support learned to challenge myself, without pressure has made all and the best part is the friend-the difference for her. ships I’ve built with my team-“My family has been great mates.” throughout this whole 
Since then, Hirt has been a process,” Hirt said. “They consistent contributor on both don’t know a whole lot about the cross country and track running, so they haven’t put teams. Last fall, Hirt qualified any pressure on me like some for the regional cross country other families might. They’re meet in Syracuse, where she really supportive though, and completed the circuit in 23:12. they just tell me to go out and That finish was good enough have fun.” for 63rd overall, and Hirt said Hirt has thrived in that it was her proudest moment atmosphere, and her future as a member of the team. looks bright. With over a year 
Hirt has also had success on left in her college career, she the track this season with sev-said she hoped to continue to eral strong showings, includ-run well and to qualify and ing a 3,000-meter victory two score at the bigger regional weeks ago at the Indiana meets. After college, Hirt said Relays in Bloomington. Her she wants to attend medical winning time of 9:57 was a school, but she doesn’t see an personal best, and it also end to her competitive career marked the second straight anytime soon. year she had won that race in “I plan on going to medical her return to her hometown. school at either Indiana or 
“I’ve been running on that Duke,” she said. “I’ll continue track since middle school, so running though, either on an it is definitely in my comfort elite team or just doing some zone, and I have my old road races for fun.” friends, my old coach, and my family there to support me,” she said. “It brings back a lot Contact Jack Hefferon at of happy memories, and I get wheffero@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 9, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Wednesday, February 9, 2011 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Pirates plundered 


Big win hides fact that trump Seton Hall 
Diggins leads as Irish theroadonlygetstougher 
Notre Dame has been no stranger
By LAURA MYERS 
to tough competition this season. 
Sports Writer 

The Irish have played thrillers against No. 15 Notre Dame fans aren’t used 
UCLA and No. 2 to getting Big Macs against the 
Connecticut at Big East, but the Irish man-
home, and bat-aged the promotion’s required 
tled No. 9 88 points — plus one more — 
Kentucky and in an 89-38 defeat of Seton 
No. 2 Baylor on Hall Tuesday night. 
the road. It was the ninth time this 
That they season No. 8 Notre Dame (21­
lost in each of 4, 10-1 Big East) has defeated 
those games Laura Myers an opponent by more than 35 
barely mat-points, adding one more to its 
tered in the 
Sports Writer 
school record number of routs. 

context of the The win came just two days 
season. In after the Irish struggled to 
fact, they beat South Florida on the road 
gained a spot in the AP poll after Sunday, ultimately defeating 
falling 79-76 to Connecticut Jan. 8. the Bulls 76-68. 
But now, while basking in the “I think this game was some-
success of the second-widest Big what of a statement,” sopho-
East regular-season victory in more guard Skylar Diggins 
school history, the Irish need to pre­said. 
pare themselves. It’s about to get a Diggins paced her team with 
lot tougher, and the last five games 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Irish sophomore guard Skylar Diggins drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 89-38 see DIGGINS/page 13 victory over Seton Hall Tuesday in the Purcell Pavilion. see RUTGERS/page 14 



MEN’S TENNIS 

No. 25 Notre Dame captures win over No. 39 Wisconsin 
By KATE GRABAREK Bayliss said the Irish needed Ask, and Petr Satral 8-3 at three doubles tonight, ” Michalika at No. 1 6-1, 7-5. Sports Writers to be more consistent in cap-No. 2 doubles. Bayliss said. “I am still look-“Watt lost but fought very turing the doubles point. The senior duo of Stephen ing for a stronger presence well throughout his match,” 
The No. 25 Irish (4-2) won “We have won the doubles Havens and Tyler Davis fell from our No. 1 team. At No. Bayliss said. “He didn’t have a big bounce back match on point in six out of our seven at No. 1 doubles to Marek 2 doubles we were able to his A game tonight, and the road against No. 39 matches this season, ” Michalika and Billy Bertha break a few times early and Michalika played a little too Wisconsin after splitting a Bayliss said. “The only 8-5. held the rest of the way big off the ground for him.” decision Sunday. match we didn ’t earn the Junior Casey Watt and through. At No. 3 we broke Davis earned the first Irish 
The Irish started the match doubles point was against freshman Greg Andrews early and also held a close win in singles at No. 6 off on the right foot by earn-No. 1 Virginia.” clinched the point for the match.” defeating Carey 6-3, 7-5. ing the doubles point with Junior Niall Fitzgerald and Irish at No. 3 with a win The Irish faced tough Andrews took down Satral wins at No. 2 and 3 doubles. sophomore Spencer over Ricardo Martin and matches in singles with 6-2, 7-6 at four singles to 
Coming into the spring sea-Talmadge earned the first Rodney Carey 8-6. three going the full distance. son Irish coach Bobby doubles victory over Fredrik “We played well at two and No. 104 Watt fell to see ANDREWS/page 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish look for redemption 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Revenge. 
No word better describes the theme of the week for Irish coach Mike Brey and the No. 8 Irish as Big East rival No. 16 Louisville comes to town and will battle for second place in what is arguably America’s toughest conference. 
After avenging last year’s loss to a previously winless Rutgers squad with a 76-69 win over the Scarlet Knights on Sunday, Notre Dame (19-4, 8-3) looks to add to the injury-plagued Cardinals’ (18-5, 7-3) woes by getting even with the team that tore the hearts out of the Irish faithful in a 
see KNIGHTS/page 14 

WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Hirt excels on the track and in the classroom 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writers 
The “Notre Dame Family” may be a familiar idea to stu­dents on campus and a favorite catchphrase of the Admissions Office, but for jun­ior Molly Hirt, it might as well be a personal motto. 
As a three-time all-state runner at Bloomington North High School in Bloomington, Ind., Hirt knew she wanted to continue her career as a colle­giate athlete. As an Indiana native with several relatives as alumni, the decision on where to run was not too difficult. 
“Being from Bloomington, I’ve grown up right down the road from here,” Hirt said. 
“One of my grandfathers and two of my uncles graduated from here as well, so Notre Dame has always been where I wanted to go.” 
Once Hirt arrived on cam­pus, she faced the daunting task of adjusting to college, both on the track and in the classroom as a biological sci­ences major. She was able to excel in both areas though by forming another tight-knit family with her friends and teammates. 
“It was definitely difficult to manage schoolwork and a higher level of training,” Hirt said. “It’s hard to study every night, especially when you 
see HIRT/page 14 





