
. 
COMMENTARY 
October will show who Notre Dame really is 
The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 7, 2011 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 


RB Mahone commits to ND 
September may be filled with excitement over the new season, and November may hold the push for a BCS bowl, but for this year’s Irish, October is the most important month of the season. Four weeks from now, when Hal­loween festivities are in full swing, we’ll know whether the Irish have been unmasked or whether the start of the sea­son was the only time Notre Dame donned a costume. 
In Sep­tember, the Irish showed their best and their worst 
— and won the game they played worst in (Pitts­burgh), while losing the game they showed their best play in (Michigan). While the start to the season was ugly, Notre Dame regrouped and battled back to 2-2. 
November is always crunch time. While the Irish face weak Wake Forest, Maryland and Boston College squads, those are classic “upset spe­cials.” As Notre Dame streaks towards an undefeated record in its final 10 contests, a matchup with No. 4/7 Stan­ford looms at the end of the season. A 4-0 November could mean a January bowl game in Glendale or New Orleans. 
But none of that matters if the Irish struggle in the rest of October following the win over the massively inferior Boilermakers. 
It starts with Air Force. Quite simply, the Falcons are nothing short of explosive. Andrew Luck’s Stanford of­fense might be a little more talented, but the Air Force triple option (with serious vertical passing thrown in) is probably the most difficult of­fense to stop on the schedule. 
Last year’s Irish squad would have had all sorts of problems with this team. Air Force would have been able to run the triple option both over and around the softer, less disciplined defensive front 
— and then would have hit the secondary for big gains. This year’s squad shows no signs of those symptoms, but then again, it hasn’t faced an offense like this. Saturday’s game will be a true test of defensive progress, as it won’t just be an athletic test. It will be a mental test as well. 


After a much-needed bye week, Notre Dame will face USC in a game that will be absolutely flooded with distractions. From stars like Will Ferrell on the sidelines to a star-studded group of re­cruits in the stands, from the first night game in over two decades to the unparalleled scrutiny that comes from any Battle for the Jeweled Shil­lelagh, there will be distrac­tions galore when the Irish can least afford them. 
If Notre Dame can close off those distractions and defeat the Trojans, it will have shown a level of maturity seldom seen recently in South Bend. Last year’s win over USC was a game between two struggling programs. This year, every eye in America will be focused on the prime­time broadcast. A win on that stage would be much-needed. 
And then, of course, there’s Navy. Brian Kelly has tried to change the culture surround­ing the Irish. There may never be a bigger test of that effort than whether the players truly expect to beat Navy — and then follow through. This program has not struggled recently because it couldn’t beat better teams. It’s strug­gled because it’s failed to defeat less-talented teams. If the Irish beat Navy like it’s just another game, then Kelly might have succeeded in returning the Irish to a place where beating Navy is an ex­pectation, never a question. 
If Notre Dame can win the three games remaining in Oc­tober, the implications will be much more far-reaching than a top-25 ranking and a shot at a BCS ranking. Winning the next three games means the Irish have really developed a stalwart defense. It means that they have really devel­oped true focus. It means they have really returned the culture to what it once was. 
So when Notre Dame ar­rives at its Halloween party, it’ll be dressed as a BCS con­tender. By then, we’ll know whether that’s a costume or not. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
While Cierre Wood showed off the present-day Irish ground game last Saturday, Notre Dame took a big step in securing the future of the run­ning game when Ohio running back Will Mahone committed to Notre Dame, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
“I think it’s a huge get,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN af­filiate Irish Sports Daily. “Notre Dame really needed … a bunch of running backs, but they also need kind of a bigger back. 
“Will Mahone’s actually a very fast player, he’s got very good speed, but he’s also more of a power play. He can run in­side the player, and he can run some people over.” 
Frank said Mahone’s com­mitment allows the Irish to fo­cus on finding a more elusive running back to complement Mahone’s power. 
“Now they’ll be able to focus on other types of backs, more of the speedy guys that can hit the home run,” Frank said. “[They’re looking at] a guy like [North Carolina running back] Keith Marshall or [California running back] Byron Mashall. One of those types of players is more of a shifty player, more explosive, more of a Cierre Wood-type running back.” 
In fact, Mahone has already become an asset on the re­cruiting trail. Shortly after he committed to Notre Dame, Ma-hone took to Twitter to attempt to convince Keith Marshall to join him in South Bend. Frank said that while many observ­ers see Keith Marshall going to Georgia, the Irish still have a real shot at getting the explo­sive back to commit. 
“He’s got a strong interest in Notre Dame,” Frank said. “It’s all going to come down to his visit … He’s real famil­iar with [Georgia], he’s been down there a number of times, he’s real comfortable with the coaching staff. He’ll have a good chance to play early there as well. We’ll see how that all plays out. He’s never been to Notre Dame, so it will be inter­esting to see his thoughts on Notre Dame.” 
As the Irish return home for the first time in three weeks, they will host Florida athlete Nelson Agholor on a visit. Ag­holor plays a number of posi­tions, including cornerback, receiver, running back and safety. Agholor’s tangible traits and his versatility make him highly valuable, Frank said. 
“He is a tremendous talent. I think he is one of the top 10 players in the entire coun­try,” Frank said. “He’s a big­ger kid. He’s got great speed. He’s an extremely explosive player, and he’s exactly what Notre Dame is missing. They have some fast players on their squad right now, but he’s an extremely explosive player.” If Agholor commits to the Irish, Frank expects him to have an immediate impact on the of­fensive side of the ball. 
“This is a five-star talent. If he comes to Notre Dame, I would guess he would chal­lenge immediately for playing time,” Frank said. “He brings something that nobody else on the squad or this class has. That’s no disrespect to the other guys … he’s just very elusive and very explosive. So this is your Rocket Ismail type of player. Notre Dame has been lacking those types of players for awhile.” 
Virginia safety C.J. Pro­sise will also take his official visit to campus this weekend, though he has already com­mitted to the Irish. Frank said that while Prosise may not be nationally known, he is one of the hidden talents of the Notre Dame class. 
“He’s a tremendous prospect. He’s a bigger kid, and he can really run,” Frank said. “He’s one of the kids that sometimes gets pushed under the radar on the national level, but around that area … all those schools wanted him badly and offered him. He’s a really, really good prospect. I think he’s one of those guys that may come in with a little less fanfare than some of the others, but I think he’s a guy that will really sur­prise people.” 
While this week is important for the Irish, Frank could not help but look ahead two weeks, to Notre Dame’s matchup against USC. 
“The motherlode of talent is coming in for official and un­official visits,” Frank said. “It’s probably Notre Dame’s biggest recruiting weekend I could ever remember. I’ve never seen this much talent come in in one weekend.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. Email Mike at mikefrank18@ sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 



Late convert 
Despite unconventional journey to Notre Dame, senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore thrives with Irish 
By CHRIS MASOUD Assistant Managing Editor  cruiting visit to Colorado and, eventually, Notre Dame.  After redshirting during his freshman year, Lewis-Moore  
“I came up here, visited, loved  earned his first start against  
The  dream  of  donning  the  the school, loved the people,  Michigan State in 2009 in what  
gold and blue, running out of  even though it was like nega­ turned out to be a thrilling vic­ 
the tunnel and playing in Notre  tive 10 [degrees] outside with  tory for Notre Dame. Then-se- 
Dame Stadium usually begins  the sun shining,” Lewis-Moore  nior Kyle McCarthy intercepted  
at a very early age. Legendary  said. ”I still had a lot of fun.”  a pass late in the fourth quar­ 
games  like  the  1993  contest  Facing the prospects of harsh  ter, as the Irish defense came  
against No. 1 Florida State or  winters and a life away from  through to seal a 33-30 win.  
the 1988 “Catholics vs. Con- home, Lewis-Moore’s path took  “It was a lot of fun, but I was  
victs”  battle  against  Miami  another 180 when he re-com­ nervous  too,”  Lewis-Moore  
foster  the  mitted to Texas  said.  “Running  out  there,  
desire  for  A&M. But after  81,000 people screaming, your  
an  aspir­ conversations  mind’s going 100 miles an hour.  
ing  football  with close fam- I had a lot of fun, I enjoyed it  
player to lace up for the Irish. But in Texas, the  “I’m lucky and I’m very privileged to be playing football for this great institution.”  ily and friends, the recruit de­cided to take a leap of faith. “My mom —  and it’s something I will never forget.” While walking out of the tun­nel has become “old hat” for the senior, he admitted he still  
Big 12 reigns s u p r eme , and for Irish  Kapron Lewis-Moore senior defensive end  she was happy for me — but at the same time  feels the goose bumps every time he walks onto the field. But in between the whistles,  
senior  de­ challenged  me  Lewis-Moore has been playing  
fensive  end  to  do  some- with a renewed focus as part of  
Kapron Lew- thing  different  a core defensive line that held  
i s -M o or e ,  with  my  life.  Purdue to just 84 rushing yards  
landing at Notre Dame was less  She challenged me to get out of  in Notre Dame’s 38-10 victory  
of  a  dream-come-true  story  my comfort zone, and my mom  last Saturday.  
than a dream dashed.  being a schoolteacher, she had  Lewis-Moore  leads  the line  
“Being  a  Texas  kid,  your  a real positive impact in my life.  with  10  unassisted  tackles,  
dream schools are Texas, Okla- Academics was always first and  three for a loss, and a forced  
homa, Oklahoma State, [Texas]  I feel like Notre Dame’s one of  fumble this season.  
A&M — the Big 12. You kind  the best academic institutions  “He’s 290-plus pounds, and  
of stay close to home,” Lewis- in the country.”  he moves like a guy who is 245,  
Moore said. “I was actually  It seems Mom knows best, as  250 pounds,” Irish coach Brian  
committed to Texas A&M my  in his fourth year as a member  Kelly said. “Quick feet plus his  
senior year in high school.”  of the Irish, Lewis-Moore has  size give him the ability to do  
A native of Weatherford, Tex- emerged as a pivotal player on  really good things.”  
as, Lewis-Moore was recruit- a defense that has bolstered the  Lewis-Moore and the Irish  
ed into the Aggie program by  Irish following a disappointing  face one of their staunchest  
then-coach Dennis Franchione.  0-2 start.  tests of the season against the  
But following Franchione’s res- In addition to his contribu­ prolific Air Force offense this PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
ignation and subsequent hiatus  tion on the field, Lewis-Moore  Saturday. That challenge be-Senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore has the fourth-most  
from college football, Lewis- has accepted his mother’s chal­ comes even more difficult fol-tackles on the Irish defense with 22 this season.  
Moore’s college football career  lenge both in the classroom and  lowing an ankle injury to senior  
took  an  abrupt  180-degree  in the locker room. Irish de­ defensive end Ethan Johnson,  When he changed his number,  on the big stage … Playing in  
turn.  fensive coordinator Bob Diaco  Lewis-Moore’s partner  on  the  that’s when we really started to  big games, I think they kind of  
“After he resigned after [the  hails the senior as one of the  line.  [develop] a great bond.”  feel for themselves that this is a  
Aggies] upset Texas that year,  key members of the entire foot- Lewis-Moore said the two  Lewis-Moore’s roommate and  great institution.”  
I was kind of in a fluster, didn’t  ball organization.  senior ends have developed  a  close friend, senior linebacker  But the mentor admits he  
know what I wanted to do,” he  “I would say that [Kapron]  close friendship over the years,  Darius Fleming said the senior  still has room for improvement  
said. “I wanted to talk to my  understands his place  on  the  barring a minor setback.  is well-equipped to handle the  before his final year of eligibil­ 
mom, who didn’t really have  team as a leader and a starter,”  “Ethan’s a great guy, I love  load Saturday.  ity in 2012. Diaco said he ex- 
any idea how the recruiting  Diaco said. “He doesn’t have  him,” Lewis-Moore said. “Ex­ “Kap’s  been  a  leader  all  pects Lewis-Moore’s continued  
process worked, so I de-com­ any feeling of being threatened  cept one year, when he changed  year, he’s been doing an awe- progression to pay dividends  
mitted from Texas A&M at the  by anyone else. He understands  his number to 90 when he was  some job,” he said. “Kap will be  this season and into the future.  
time, and that’s when I took  how important he is to the or- nine. We’ve always bonded, but  fine in that role picking up for  “Tangibly, he’s going to get  
some trips.”  ganization and how much value  he was always on the other side  Ethan and just carrying that  bigger, faster, stronger. Cardio- 
Those  trips  included  a  re- he has in the organization.”  of the locker, I was right here.  D-line. That’s one of my best  vascularly, he’s going to be able  
friends. He’s a character. He’s  to play harder longer. He can  
funny. He’s a tough kid. No one  play a lot harder longer than he  
dislikes Kap.”  could a year ago, and it’s only  
That includes a talented duo  going to continue to improve.  
of Irish freshmen in Aaron  Mentally, he’ll continue to take  
Lynch and Stephon Tuitt, who  his mental game to that next  
have slowly worked their way  level of understanding.”  
into the Irish rotation. Lewis- A marketing major, Lewis- 
Moore has embraced the ad- Moore hopes to put his degree  
ditional role of mentor for the  to good use upon graduation. In  
rookies,  whose  development  the meantime, the senior looks  
can be attributed in part to the  to bolster the defense and pro- 
unofficial coaching of the se­ pel Notre Dame into a 10-win  
nior defensive end.  season. 
“He understands that these   I feel like we’re a great team,  
guys are going to help us be  and starting off 0-2 is kind of  
successful, so he’s doing every- frustrating,” Lewis-Moore said.  
thing that he can to help them  “We’re so much better than  
with film study, with things on  what we’ve shown, but I think  
the field, off the field  — just  the last couple of weeks we’ve  
being that mentor for them,”  shown that we are a great team  
Fleming said. “He’s not letting  and we’ve got to take one game  
the fact that they’re battling for  at a time.”  
his position get into his head.  Despite the flip-flop regard­ 
He’s just being the leader that  ing his decision to enroll at  
he is ... At times, I look up to  Notre Dame, Lewis-Moore said  
him.”  he never regretted his decision,  
Lewis-Moore  credits  the  nor his mother’s advice, to suit  
freshmen for adapting quickly  up for the Irish.  
to the intensity of the college  “If I would have gone any- 
game, allowing him to take a  where else — there’s no place  
less hands-on approach and  like Notre Dame to me. There’s  
letting  the  freshmen  develop  no place that you can have such  
into their own style.  a great institution with great  
“They came in and they re- people … I’m blessed, I’m lucky  
sponded well,” he said. “It’s not  and I’m very privileged to be  
so much teaching. You can ex- playing football for this great  
plain running down the tunnel,  institution.”  
PAT COVENEY/The Observer  being at Notre Dame — how  

Senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore tackles Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson during awesome it is. You’re always Contact Chris Masoud at Notre Dame’s 35-31 loss Sept. 10. Lewis also forced a fumble during the loss. under the microscope, always cmasoud@nd.edu 
IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 
In last week’s 38-10 win Junior Cierre Wood and se-COACHING over Purdue, sophomore quar-nior Jonas Gray make a dan-Irish coach Brian Kelly and terback Tommy Rees played gerous combination at running offensive coordinator Charley his best game of the season. back and they are getting more Molnar realize the Irish will Though not flawless, he com-confident and productive as the need a consistent rushing at-

Head-to pleted 24-of-40 passes for 254 season progresses. Last week, tack throughout the game to 
yards, three touchdowns and,  the Irish rushed for 287 yards,  beat Air Force.  
for the first time, did not turn  the most in eight years. Wood  The coaches are likely to in- 
the ball over.  finished with 191 yards and a  volve more playmakers in the  
Senior  receiver  Michael  touchdown and Gray picked up  passing game. Junior receiver  
Floyd caught 12 passes for 137  94 yards and a score. The Notre  Theo Riddick did not have a  
yards and a touchdown, which  Dame offensive line is getting a  touch at Purdue, and his season  
came on a 35-yard strike from Rees in the first minute of the  good push and creating large holes for the speedy backs to  has been a disappointment af­ter much preseason hype.  Notre Dame Offense  
game. Floyd found much more space against the Boilermak­ find. Air Force allowed 334 rush- EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
ers than he did the previous week against Pittsburgh. If Air Force double-teams Floyd like Pittsburgh did, another target will need to step up to ensure  ing yards against an excellent Navy ground attack in its 35-34 win Saturday. While the Notre Dame rushing style is much dif­ferent than the Midshipmen’s,  WR WR  7 16 6 9  TJ Jones DaVaris Daniels Theo Riddick Robby Toma  So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  
the unit’s success, a role junior  the Falcons should nonetheless  
tight end Tyler Eifert has filled  have difficulty stopping Wood  
in the past. The Falcons are ranked 21st in the nation in pass defense, though they have not played an offense as talented as Notre  and Gray. Offensive success for the Irish depends on asserting a strong running game. With the Air Force offense attempting to control the clock  RB  20 25  Cierre Wood Jonas Gray  Jr. Sr.  LT LG  70 72 66 76  Zack Martin Nick Martin Chris Watt Andrew Nuss  Jr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  
Dame’s to this point. Five Air Force players have intercep­tions this season, and the de­ through its rushing game, Notre Dame needs to sustain long drives or the Irish defense will  QB  11 10  Tommy Rees  Dayne Crist  So. Sr.  C  52 57  Braxston Cave Mike Golic Jr.  Sr. Sr.  
fense will look to add to its 10­sack total and pressure Rees into making poor decisions. EDGE: EVEN  be on the field for most of the four quarters. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  RG RT  78 65 75 74  Trevor Robinson Conor Hanratty Taylor Dever Christian Lombard  Sr. Fr. Sr. So.  
TE  80 18  Tyler Eifert Ben Koyack  Jr. Fr.  
IRISH SCHEDULE  
Sept. 3 South Florida (L, 23–20) Sept. 10 @ Michigan (L, 35-31) Sept. 17 Michigan St. (W, 31-13) Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh (W, 15-12) Oct. 1 @ Purdue (W, 38-10) Oct. 8 Air Force Oct. 22 USC Oct. 29 Navy Nov. 5 @ Wake Forest Nov. 12 Maryland Nov. 19 Boston College Nov. 26 @ Stanford  IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS The unit continues to be a glaring weakness for Notre Dame. Even senior kicker David Ruffer, who did not miss a field goal until the Sun Bowl last season, is only 3-of-7 in 2011. Junior punter Ben Turk was only called upon twice in the Pur­due game, but averaged 44 yards per punt and downed one inside the 20-yard line. Field position will be crucial in this weekend’s matchup. Senior punt returner John Goodman continues to struggle field­ing punts. He has muffed multiple returns this season, is not able to make defenders miss and made some questionable decisions by allowing the punt to roll. The lone bright spot of the unit is freshman George Atkinson, who is a threat to score a touchdown every time he touches the ball. EDGE: AIR FORCE  CB  3 Michael Floyd Sr. WR 81 John Goodman Sr. Notre Dame Defense 12 Robert Blanton Sr. 23 Lo Wood So.  


Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 

22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 

90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 

P ILB 

44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
9 Louis Nix So. 
NG 98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 
60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 

LS ILB 
5 Manti Te’o Jr. 54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore Sr. DE 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
PR 
81 John Goodman Sr. 
6 Theo Riddick Jr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 

26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 
56 Troy Niklas Fr. 

34 George Atkinson Fr. S 17 Zeke Motta Jr. OLB
KR 
28 Austin Collinsworth So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 
KO 

Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

You know what’s scary? Air Force might be the best offensive team Notre Dame will face all season — it’s definitely the most difficult to stop. The Falcons execute the triple option just as well as Navy or Georgia Tech, but they throw the ball more effec­tively than either of those teams. It’ll be pretty clear after about two offen­

sive series if the Irish are up to the task of stopping that juggernaut. 
Normally, I’d say Notre Dame fans should cower in fear from this matchup. But this year is different. For once, the defensive line is the best unit on the team. There’s enough athleticism and experience in the defensive front seven to contain the option. If the defense can just slow the Fal­cons down, the offense can put up enough points to win. It might look scary, but there’s no reason for fear. 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 


I’ve got nothing. Even my Pando­ra has failed to deliver inspiration this week. Perhaps that should be expected when going up against an offense unlike any other. 
Air Force presents many chal­lenges to Bob Diaco’s defense. If the triple-option run by Navy present­ed difficulties last year, then Air 
Force’s seemingly endless variety of options could render the Irish defense as effective as a flock of chickens with all their heads cut off. 
Let’s hope it doesn’t get that bad. In fact, it shouldn’t. Primarily because Brian Kelly should rely on his own running game to keep the ball out of the Falcolns’ hands until Notre Dame has a comfortable cushion. If Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray can combine for 100 yards or so in the first quarter, the Falcolns won’t stand a chance. 
Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 

Coming off a commanding victory over Purdue Saturday, the Irish are primed for a continuation of their winning ways — or for a major let­down. Seeing how Notre Dame re­acts after such a big win could set the tone for the rest of the season. 
Once again Notre Dame enters the contest against Air Force as the 
better team, which has not made much of a difference so far this season. But like the Purdue game, the Irish should be superior athletically to the Falcons, which is a good sign for playmakers like Michael Floyd and Cierre Wood. 
But Notre Dame’s defense will be the deciding factor in the game. If it can keep Air Force’s offense  in check, the Irish offense should have no trouble outscoring the Falcons. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Air Force 24 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Air Force 13 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Air Force 20 
AIR FORCE OFFENSIVE AIR FORCE RUSHING AIR FORCE PASSING COACHING Running the ball is the bread The Falcons do not like to 
Falcons coach Troy Calhoun and butter of this team. Run-throw the football, as indicated knows Air Force needs to move ning the triple option, the Fal-by the amount of throws senior the ball up and down the field cons rank third in the nation in quarterback Tim Jefferson has Saturday in order to score points rushing, with 364.5 yards per attempted through four games 
o-Head and keep the ball out of the hands game. this season: 47. Only two receiv­
of the Irish playmakers on of-Five Air Force players have ers have gained over 100 yards fense. If the Falcons can sustain rushed for over 100 yards this in the passing game in season long drives and keep the Irish season. Running back Asher totals, and Mikel Hunter is the defense on the field, they should Clark leads the unit in rushing only big play threat on the edge. be able to score enough points to with 382 yards and three touch-Air Force prefers to use the give the team a chance to win. downs. pass to change pace when its The key for the Irish rush de-rushing attack is succeeding. By 
Air Force Defense EDGE: EVEN fense is sticking to the assign-using play action, the Falcons ments and not letting the Fal-can often pick up a large gain cons control the tempo, as Navy when opponents pile defenders did when they gashed the Notre into the box to stop the run. Dame defense for 367 yards in The pressure created by the 5 Anthony Wright Sr. 2010. Defensive coordinator Irish defensive line fuels the 
CB 24 P.J. Adeji-Paul                   Sr. Bob Diaco led the defense to a secondary in slowing down an 
18 Anthony Wooding So. 

much more successful second opponent’s aerial attack. Notre 
FS 26 Kevin Jablonsky Sr. 

attempt against the option a Dame has playmakers on both month later when Notre Dame the defensive line and at line­
9 Alex Means Jr. 

OLB did not allow a touchdown in backer that force the quarter­
44 Patrick Hennessee Sr. 

the 28-3 win over Army. back into making poor deci-Saturday marks the first time sions. 95 Harry Kehs Sr. 32 Jordan Waiwaiole  Sr. Notre Dame has faced the triple After a rough start in the first 
DE 97 Nick Fitzgerald Fr. ILB 47 Ken Lamendola  Sr. 
option this season, and it may few weeks of the season, senior have to do so without senior cornerback Gary Gray has most­
89 Nick DeJulio Jr. 

defensive end Ethan Johnson, ly returned to his previous form NG 94 Cody Miller Jr. 41 Brady Amack Sr. who sustained an ankle injury and is a productive member of ILB against Purdue and is question-the Notre Dame secondary. Se­
42 Austin Niklas Jr. 
88 Ben Kopacka Sr. 

able for Air Force. Johnson is a nior Robert Blanton continues 
DE 53 Ross Fleming Sr. 
productive run-stopper and, as to be a shutdown cornerback on a senior, brings valuable expe-the edge of the Irish defense. 46 Jamil Cooks So. rience in playing assignment OLB 2 Stephen Atrice Jr. football. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
6 Jon Davis Sr. 

EDGE: AIR FORCE 
SS 8 Bobby Watkins Fr. 

CB 
14 Josh Hall Sr. 
23 Steffon Batts So. 
AIR FORCE SCHEDULE 
Sept. 3 South Dakota (W, 37-20) 
Sept. 10 TCU (L, 35-19) 
AIR FORCE SPECIAL TEAMS 
Sept. 24 Tennessee State 

Parker Herrington has converted three of his four attempted 
(W, 63-24) 

field goals in 2011, with a long of 45 yards. The Falcons have an 
Oct. 1 @ Navy 

excellent punter in David Baska, who is averaging 47.3 yards per 
(W, 35-34) 

attempt and has kicked three inside the opponent’s 20-yard line. 
Oct. 8 @ Notre Dame 

Air Force Offense 
Calhoun has called for Jefferson to punt the ball twice from the 
Oct. 13 San Diego State 
quarterback position. 
Oct. 22 @ Boise State 

Air Force has little explosiveness in the return game, but might 
15 Jonathan Warzeka Sr. Oct. 29 @ New Mexico 
be able to take advantage of the Notre Dame coverage units, which 
WR 85 Zack Kauth Sr. Nov. 5 Army 
have not been as strong as they were in 2010. 
Nov. 12 Wyoming Nov. 19 UNLV 

EDGE: EVEN 
Nov. 26 @ Colorado State 
81 Joshua Freeman Sr. 
84 Daniel Pickett Sr. 




TE Air Force Specialists 
PK 
RT 
75 Jason Kons Jr. 99 Erik Soderberg Sr.
   74 Alex Huskisson So. 
35 Wes Cobb Jr. 
67 Jordan Eason Jr. 

RG RB 
25 Mike DeWitt Jr. 19 David Baska So. 
76 Evan Kaufmann Jr. 

P 
54 Michael Hester Sr. 7 Tim Jefferson Sr. 

LS 
56 Colton Reid Sr. 

C QB
65 Michael Husar So. 11 Connor Dietz Sr. 

LG 
73 A.J. Wallerstein Sr. 
17 Asher Clark Sr. 

63 Jeff Benson Sr. 6 Jon Davis Sr. 
RB 37 Anthony LaCoste So. 

PR
70 Kevin Whitt Sr. 

LT 77 Jerry Henry So. 
15 Jonathan Warzeka Sr. 

KR 
KO 
99 Erik Soderberg Sr. 
10 Mikel Hunter Jr. 

WR 27 Ty MacArthur So. 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame soundly defeated Purdue last weekend and now en­ters a critical three-game stretch in October spread out over four week­ends. 
Win all three, and the once far-off BCS hopes are still alive head­ing into the final month. 
Many are already looking ahead 

to the Oct. 22 date with USC, and that’s a mistake. Air Force is an excellent team and runs the same triple option that has given the Irish fits in the past. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly won’t let his squad look past the Falcons, but still expect a close match between two talented teams. Both running games will have big days Saturday, but it will be Notre Dame who finishes on top by a field goal. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28, Air Force 25 
Chris Masoud 
Assistant Managing Editor 


Army used to be a football pow­erhouse and has three national championships to its name. Navy has 19 players in the College Foot­ball Hall of Fame. Air Force, not so much. 
The academies were once on par with the nation’s best, but since have been relegated to college foot­
ball mediocrity. But this Falcons team is good. They may not be better than Notre Dame, but they have something the Irish lack: chicanery. Run­ning a triple-option attack is one thing, but coupling that with a precise aerial attack is another matter com­pletely. Just watch some highlights of the Falcons of­fense this season — receivers just aren’t supposed to be that open. But Notre Dame has something Air Force lacks: a defense hitting its stride. And Michael Floyd. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 37, Air Force 10 





Defense won’t change against triple option 




By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
Recent history at Notre Dame has made “triple option” the equivalent of a four-letter word. 
Navy has employed it to perfec­tion far too often for Irish fans, and defense after Notre Dame de­fense has failed to be disciplined enough to effectively defend the scheme. Hand-wringing abounds over what new wrinkle, if any, defensive coordinator Bob Diaco will install to stop Air Force’s op­tion attack. Amid the public wor­ries, the coaching staff has made one thing clear. 
“I think we keep doing what we’ve been doing,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. 
“It’s no different than any other week,” safeties coach Chuck Mar­tin said. 
“Really, what do we have to do? Nothing different than we do ev­ery week,” Diaco said. 
While the focus on stopping Air Force’s option may seem hard­headed, Kelly said it was more important for his team to contin­ue to win the battle at the line of scrimmage. 
“We cannot become so out of character in stopping the option that we forget about the things that we teach every day,” Kelly said. “That is playing physical, flying to the football [and] great tackling. We’ve got to be who we are, and that is being physical on both sides of the ball. 
“If you’re afraid of that, you’re not going to play. We have to be who we are.” 
The Falcons employ a triple-op­tion attack as their base offense and do so to great effect, rank­ing third in the nation with 364.5 yards on the ground per game. But in contrast to other triple-option teams like Navy, Air Force has an equally dangerous aerial attack. 
“These guys are very profi­cient passers and receivers,” Di­aco said. “It’s unique. That’s why they’re one of the best offensive teams in the country.” 
The Falcons’ multifaceted at­tack begins with and revolves around senior quarterback Tim Jefferson, whose 188.8 quarter­back efficiency rating is fourth in the country. 
“He can do all the option jobs, but he’s also proficient passing,” Diaco said. “He can make that big field throw to a comeback … which is hard for any quar­terback in the country, let alone where you would think you’re playing an option quarterback. 
“He can make all the throws and he’s athletic enough and tough enough to run the offense. It’s a unique challenge and they’re doing a fantastic job.” 
Senior linebacker Darius Fleming said the key to neu­tralizing the Air Force ac­
tion  was  familiarity  with  
the  offensive  scheme  he  
and  his  defense  will  face.  

“I don’t think you can over-study. I don’t think there’s such a thing as too much film this week,” Fleming said. “You’ve got to battle for four quarters, be­cause they’ve got a great team, and they run this offense really well.” 
The Falcons run their offense so well, in fact, that Diaco felt it was necessary to temper expec­tations. 
“What’s success? People talk about stopping them. You don’t stop an offense like this,” he said. “Hopefully you can get them off schedule … If you can get the team off schedule, that’s helpful.” 
While freshmen defensive linemen Stephon Tuitt and Aar­on Lynch saw no action against an option-based Michigan team in week two, Diaco said the two would see playing time this week despite their inexperience. 
“It isn’t going to be perfect,” Diaco said. “They’re going to do silly stuff at times. We’re just going to have to rally and play hard, play with great effort and try to neutralize a lot of those things … They’re doing a better job. Each day that passes, they seem to do better.” 
According to Kelly, at its core, the matchup between two dis­parate teams comes down to mental discipline — and if his team is going to win, it has to do what it does best. 
“We’re big, strong [and] physi­cal,” he said. “They’re agile, mobile and smart. They play extremely hard. We have to use our attributes and we have to be a physical team. If you fall asleep for one second … you’re going to be in big trouble.” 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




Players, coaches strive to improve special teams play 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
A special teams unit can be a forgotten yet crucial aspect of any team. It can provide a game-changing momentum swing when an opponent least expects it. As Notre Dame is finding out in 2011, it can also be crippling. 
Through the first five games of this season, the Irish have sput­tered in virtually every aspect of special teams play. 
“[Special teams are] an em­phasis,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We’re working hard at it. We know it’s an area that has to get better, has to improve. But like anything else, we’re up late. We’re looking at everything. We’re examining everything that’s being done, every person out there, every player, every scheme. 
“There’s no hurt feelings here when it comes to special teams. This is raw in a sense that every­thing has to be examined because we’ve got to get better there.” 
Junior receiver Theo Riddick began the season as the start­ing punt returner but, after two muffed punt returns against South Florida, one of which gave the Bulls three critical points in their 23-20 victory, was replaced by senior receiver John Good­man. 
Goodman, chosen for returns due to his sure hands, has dis­played anything but ball security during his 2011 stint at the posi­tion. His most critical gaffe was a dropped ball inside Notre Dame’s own 20-yard line when the Irish held a precarious 15-point lead over Michigan State in the fourth quarter Sept. 17. 
“We’ve got to make better de­cisions catching the ball,” Irish special teams coach Mike Elston said. “We’ve got to do a better job of holding on. We got to get guys out so they can run a little bit bet­ter and hold up.” 
In Notre Dame’s 38-10 win at Purdue Saturday, Goodman made the decision to let a punt drop and watched as it rolled an extra 15 yards, putting the Irish offense against its own end zone. 
“Purdue had good skill and we didn’t really match up well, but we match up better this week with guys we can get out there, so we just got to put better guys on their fast players and try and do a better job of holding up,” Elston said. 
In a sign that Notre Dame is pulling all tricks out of the bag to improve special teams play, ju­nior punt returner Ben Turk has even punted rugby-style at some points during a slow start to 2011. 
The blame for the perplexing start to 2011, however, can be passed evenly between coaches and players, Kelly said. 
“We got to coach better, and everyone wants to put it on Mike Elston, but there are six other coaches that are responsible for those teams,” he said. “There are lieutenants on each one of those units and each one of them has to be accountable to do a better job. Having said that, I think we all know on the other end [which] players have to play better.” 
Perhaps most befuddling has been the play of senior kicker Da­vid Ruffer. After the former walk-on converted his first 18 attempts before missing his final boot of the 2010 season, he has started 2011 on a 3-of-7 mark. At Purdue, Ruffer missed a 49-yard field goal and had another blocked in the victory. 
“On the block, that was on [Ruffer]. He kicked the ball too low,” Elston said. “The guy put his hand up and blocked it and that can’t happen. He got a little pen­etration, but not enough to block the kick. On the miss, he struck the ball well, but it just went one foot outside the upright. It was a 49-yard field goal, so we expect him to make it. That’s why we put him out there and he missed it by a foot. 

“You’ve got to try to build his confidence back up …” 
The rose among thorns for the Irish has been freshman run­ning back George Atkinson, who took on the role of kick returner in week three. He made a splash as the first Notre Dame fresh­man kick returner to score since Raghib Ismail in 1988. 
Overall, Kelly said he continues to evaluate the entire unit and search for a cure to Notre Dame’s woes. 
“What I really try to do is ex­amine all phases of the game and find out whether it’s personnel, whether it’s teaching, or simply is it scheme,” he said. “I try to break it down in that area. [While] I be­lieve we spend the appropriate time on special teams, we would be a whole lot better if we got bet­ter play. That doesn’t exonerate the coaches. We’re part of that as well. But we need better play.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




