
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘Waste-Free Wednesdays’ improves steadily 
Challenge promotes conscious dining behavior; liquid and food waste decreases by .03 ounces per student per meal 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
For a second year in a row, Waste-Free Wednesdays have challenged students to eat and drink consciously in the dining hall during the month of Novem­ber. 
The challenge, organized and directed by senior Elizabeth Da­vis, reduced monthly waste by more than half last year, and sim­ilar success was found this year. 
Davis said the project met its primary goals. 
“We had a two-fold goal: to de­crease the amount of liquid and food waste, of course, but also to increase awareness of how much we were wasting,” Davis said. 
The challenge was created through a partnership through the Office of Sustainability, Food Services and the GreeND Club. Students with no leftover food or drink on their trays were given raffle tickets, which could be en­tered into a drawing for 100 free Flex Points. 
“The partnership between the three groups allowed there to be a student arm collaborating with the administrative aspect as well,” she said. 
Analysis of the typical student eating patterns showed that at the beginning of the year, the 


see WASTE/page 4 


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Trays in South Dining Hall were filled with less waste in November than in previous months. The “Waste-Free Wednesdays” challenge encourages students to take only what they will eat. 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 



MBA student, wife to build library 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame MBA student Conor Evans and his wife Lauren always knew they wanted to use their engineering and construc­tion talents to benefit others. 
The Evans recently acted on their dream and partnered with Invisible Children, an interna­tional non-profit movement set on ending conflict and children soldiering in Uganda, to build a library for the Lacor Secondary School in Gulu, Uganda. They are calling the initiative the 31 Lengths Campaign. 

“The main thrust of the proj­ect is to get out there using our individual talents and passions in life, our own skills, to do good in the world in a sustainable manner, as opposed to char­ity, which is walked away from,” Conor Evans said. 
Lauren Evans said the two be­gan researching non-profit orga­nizations about a year ago, look­ing for a partner whose mission matched theirs. They settled on Invisible Children, a movement that began in 2003 when three filmmakers from Southern Cali­fornia created a documentary about the conflict in Uganda. 
The library will attempt to move Uganda toward a business-centered economy, rather than an agrarian-centered one, be-


see INVISIBLE/page 4 
Archbishop wins prize for service in Latin America 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Louis Kébreau, Archbishop of Cap-Haitien, once said, “When you build a school, you close a prison.” 
Because of Kébreau’s commit­ment to promoting education in Haiti, particularly in the after­math of the 2009 earthquake, he will be honored with the Notre Dame Prize for Distinguished Public Service in Latin America on Thursday in Haiti, according to a University press release. 
“[Kébreau] is somebody who has dedicated his life to working with the people of Haiti and par­ticularly has done a lot of work on education,” said Stephen Rei­fenberg, executive director of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, which sponsors the prize. “It’s this commitment to education and social justice that has really distinguished him.” 
Reifenberg said the award, be­gun in 2000 and co-sponsored by Coca-Cola, recognizes visionary leaders who do important work to improve democracy and human development in Latin America. 
The prize comes with a $15,000 cash award, along with a match­ing donation to a charity of the recipient’s choice, Reifenberg said. 
Kébreau chose to donate to Ac­tion et Solidarité contre la Pauvre­té (Action and Solidarity against Poverty, or ASAP), an organization that provides scholarships to Hai­tian university students. 
Kébreau was chosen for the honor because he has been a voice for the Haitian people, Reifenberg said. 
“He is somebody who has really worked hard to connect the local and the national and the interna­tional,” he said. “He’s done a great deal to raise the issues of people at the local levels … to really bring the awareness of what’s happen­ing at the local level to the level of the nation in Haiti, but even more to the international community.” 
see AWARD/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Library receives lighting upgrade page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Beauty and the Beast review page 8 u Central Collegiate Hockey Association page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Tuesday, December 6, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU OWNED A BOAT, WHAT WOULD YOU NAME IT? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Joe Wirth Marisa Iati Katie Heit Emma Russ Sam Gans Graphics Scene Brandon Keelean Courtney Cox Photo Viewpoint Thomas La Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 37 LOW 30 


Brittany Haas  Matt O’Brien  Cynthia Qian-Zhang  Grace Meikle  Madison McMenemy  Luke Smith  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Lyons  Carroll  Ryan  Breen-Phillips  Pasquerilla West  Zahm  
“Princess Bee.”  “The Lucky Boy.”  “Miss Pickles.”  “The  “Smothered in  “The Moaning  
Meimeijuan.”  Smith.”  Maddy.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Thieves target toilet paper in Albuquerque robbery 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A New Mexico restaurant employee says he’s now seen it all, after three men left his diner with rolls of toilet paper and were nabbed in the parking lot by police. 
Burgers, Dogs and Wings employee Josh Flannery-Stewart tells KOAT-TV in Albuquerque that he was immediately suspicious of the men when they came in Saturday because they weren’t talking and ap­peared “messed up.” 
The three went into the bathroom and emerged car­rying about a dozen rolls of toilet paper. They got in a car in the parking lot, but didn’t get far. 

Albuquerque police ap­parently already had the trio under surveillance and quickly surrounded the car and arrested them. 
The toilet paper was re­turned to its rightful owner. 
Stolen Santa returned to owner with apology note 
UNIONVILLE, Ind. — A southern Indiana man has gotten an early Christmas gift: A 16-foot-tall inflatable Santa Claus stolen from his yard has been returned with $100 and a note of apology. 
Jason McClaren tells The Herald-Times that someone returned the deflated Santa to his Unionville yard early Saturday in a trash bag that also contained the money and note. 
He says the anonymous note makes it clear that the person who returned the Santa wasn’t the thief who took it and two 6-foot tall penguins this past week. The penguin decorations are still missing. 
The typed note states: “Returning your property is the right thing to do, and apologies for the thief who took it in the first place.” 
McClaren says he plans to use the $100 to buy more decorations. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Department of Art will host a holiday pottery sale today from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. in the Mendoza College of Business. The sale will continue Wednesday and Thursday in the Riley Hall of Design from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
The Class of 2015 will gather for a freshman class Mass today at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. All freshmen are welcome to attend. A recep­tion will follow the mass. 
Saint Mary’s College will host its annual Lessons and Carols today at 7 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto on campus. The event features interdenomi­national music, dance and scripture. All are welcome to attend.  
There will be a Catholic Charismatic prayer meet­ing today in the Alumni Hall Chapel. The meeting will take place from 7:30 to 8:30 
p.m. Meetings occur every Tuesday in Alumni.  
Archbishop Timothy Dolan of New York will deliver an address on human dignity entitled “Modern Questions, Ancient Answers? Defining and Defending Human Dig­nity in Our Time” today in the Notre Dame Conference Center of McKenna Hall. The address will begin at 
7:30 p.m. Notre Dame the­ology professors Ann Astell and Gerald McKenny will deliver Catholic and Protes­tant responses following the address. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









HIGH 37 LOW 24 
HIGH 37 LOW 26 
HIGH 26 LOW 19 
HIGH 29 LOW 26 

Tuesday, December 6, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Job growth remains stagnant 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
The recession has effected all portions of the economy, but the job sector has been hit the hardest, said Saint Mary’s Economics profes­sor Jerry McElroy.  McElroy was featured in a story on joblessness on MSNBC’s “The Bottom Line” last Thursday.
 “Where we are today is just a little bit above where we were in terms of overall economic activity in 2007,” he told The Observer Monday. “So in other words we haven’t come very far.” 
McElroy said one of the reasons the recession has been difficult to recover from is the lack of job growth. Es­sentially, the current econo­my is a jobless one. 
“The economy lost 8.7 mil­lion jobs. That was during the downswing,” he said. “During the upshot, we only gained about 2.5 million, and so that is why it has been called a jobless recovery.” 
McElroy said this is the first time the U.S. has seen a jobless recovery since the Great Depression. Because the economy has seen a re­cession, consumers are not spending as much money, which is not good for Ameri­can business, he said. 
“The consumer is just not buying like they used to,” he said. “The engine of the U.S. economy is the consumer. 

The household consumer ac­counts for 70 percent of total expenditures of the econo­my.” 
McElroy said there are four reasons the household con­sumer is not spending money: the financial meltdown, the crash of the housing bubble, debt costs and lower wages than past averages. 
“The real wage of the aver­age American has been fall­ing, and if your wages are re­ally falling, you are not going to be spending a lot,” he said. 
Even though the economy has still not completely re­covered from the recession, retailers saw successful Black Friday and Cyber Mon­day sales, McElroy said. 
“Most retailers say that they do 40 percent of their business between Thanks­giving and New Year’s,” he said. “So if they don’t make it now, they are going to go under.” 
McElroy said there are signs that the consumer is waking up and spending more money. 
“No. 1: For the last three months, the economy has added over 100,000 jobs, so that’s good news,” he said. “No. 2: The unemployment rate just fell in November from 9 percent to 8.6 percent, so that means we are making progress.” 
McElroy said the final rea­son the economy saw a boost was that retail sales for Black Friday and Cyber Monday were above what economists had forecasted. 
“Now this makes the retail­ers feel good, and another good indicator is that con­sumer sentiment, when con­sumers feel better, seems to be rising,” he said. 
Even though the economy has seen some growth and the biggest shopping week­end of the year was a suc­cess, McElroy said people are still dealing with the fallout from the recession. 
McElroy said that food pan­tries around the country are serving demographics they have not encountered before. 
“All these managers of food stamps across the country are seeing people they have never seen before,” he said. “They identified a couple of groups: unattached young people and families with both parents and children.” 
The recession has effected donations to food pantries, which has added pressure on the organizations. 
“They have seen a decline in donations. Some donors are giving less and some do­nors are becoming receiv­ers,” he said. “Secondly, they have experienced a cut in federal funding, and third­ly the price of food is going up and as a result, the food bank dollar goes less far.” 
Contact anna Boarini at                    aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
LED lights shine on “Word of Life” mural 



By JESSICA STOLLER­CONRAD 
News Writer 
Last Spring, the popular “Word of Life” mural on the south side of Hesburgh Library was updated with new energy-efficient LED lights, said Paul Kempf, director of Utilities at Notre Dame. 
The new lighting is part of the $10 million Energy Conser­vation Measures (ECM) proj­ect, begun in 2008 to support conservation initiatives, Kempf said. 
“[The ECM project] has had two phases … The second phase has been very focused on lighting,” Kempf said. “We’ve basically gone through all of campus with an eye towards replacing incandescent light bulbs … and large-diameter fluorescent light bulbs. We’ve upgraded almost 80 buildings on campus with new lighting technology.” 
The mural, originally illumi­nated with outdated mercury vapor lighting, also visually benefits from the new lighting provided by LED technology, Kempf said. 
“The LEDs give better uni­formity than [the mural] had before, as far as how it illumi­nates the whole mural, and you get a better color rendering,” Kempf said, “The LED lighting is more akin to natural lighting and you see truer colors.” 
Kempf said another ongoing sustainability project involves updating the “sight lights” that illuminate the sidewalks and roads on campus, which also benefit from LED technology. 
“The LED also has a great ad­vantage — that it’s a light that you can shape and direct much more than you can the older sources … We’re lighting the ground instead of lighting the sky and there’s less glare … less light pollution,” Kempf said. 
Energy savings from the use of LED lights also benefits the University financially, Kempf said. 
“It has a cost benefit to the University,” he said. “It has al­lowed the University to take the savings we’ve generated and ac­tually roll it right back into the program and let us keep doing more and more by reinvesting in [the ECM project]. And that’s a logical approach to conserva­tion or sustainability, to do the things that have an economic payback first.” 
Heather Christophersen, di­rector of Sustainability at Notre Dame, said she also supports these new energy-efficient transitions. 
“The new lights save energy, which causes us to produce less carbon, which is one of our major goals — to reduce the carbon footprint of campus,” Christophersen said. 
Christophersen said she would like to see other campus icons receive sustainable light­ing updates in the near future. 
“It would be really cool to change the lighting on the Dome to LED lights to make it, at night, have less of a green color and more true,” Christo­phersen said. 
The LED lights for the mural were a donation from Musco Lighting, with whom the Uni­versity has had a long-time partnership in lighting campus locations, Christophersen said. 
Christophersen said she also hopes the new mural lighting will have an impact that reach­es farther than the boundaries of campus. 
“I think changing to these more efficient types of lights on such a visible campus landmark that so many people know about and look at, it will help hopeful­ly remind people how they can save energy in their own lives,” Christophersen said. 
Contact Jessica Stoller-Conrad at                       jstolle1@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Tuesday, December 6, 2011 

Invisible 
continued from page 1 
ginning with its children, Conor Evans said. 
“All of the library functions are designed so the library is sustainable,” he said. “The last­ing impact is to be an incubator to promote commerce to stabilize the region.” 
Rainfall in Uganda is predicted to decrease 24 percent over the next 80 years, Conor Evans said, a fact that greatly increases the probability of civil war in the country. 
“If we can educate them and create commerce to where they are not as reliant on agriculture for their livelihoods, that is the end goal of the mission,” he said. 
While local contractors and workers designed and will build the library, the 31 Lengths Cam­paign will assist in other ways. 
“Conor and I and our team are there to raise the funds,” Lauren Evans said. “Also, the Invisible Children engineering staff asked if we would train them in West­ern building practices. I’m creat­ing a curriculum for classes such as concrete cracking issues and safety.” 
The campaign is currently fo­cusing on fundraising. In order to raise the $90,000 needed for the project, the team is taking a pyra­mid approach, which involves goals of a certain number of peo­ple donating a certain amount of money each. 
“It’s a mix of speaking to both enough people and a few really big [donations],” Conor Evans said. 
Sophomore Emily Mediate, leader of the undergraduate in-
Award 
continued from page 1 
Reifenberg said Kébreau has most recently advocated globally for measures to combat a cholera epidemic in Haiti. 
In the realm of education, Ké­breau has been integral in build­ing and rebuilding schools for impoverished Haitian children, especially after the devastating 2009 earthquake, Reifenberg said. 
Reifenberg said choosing Ké­breau to receive the prize honors not only his leadership, but also the strength of the Haitian people. 
“There is an interest in recogniz­ing the incredible solidarity of the Haitian people,” Reifenberg said, “and what they’ve endured since the earthquake and in the midst of incredible hardship, the real leadership that many people have shown, and to a certain degree be­ing able to honor one person is ac­volvement branch of the project, said there are numerous ways for students to participate with the project. 
“What we’re really looking for now is awareness of the issues go­ing on in Uganda,” Mediate said. “We want people to start dialogue about it, start thinking about it and start having it on their ra­dar.” 
Mediate said she is looking to partner with student govern­ment’s Social Concerns commit­tee to hold a fundraiser. 
“We talked about hosting events in dorms, maybe some kind of dorm competition, but definitely having representatives interested in the project present on the issues going on and the larger picture and how they can get involved in Africa or Uganda,” she said. 
Mediate said students are also welcome to become involved in other aspects of the project. 
“A lot of Notre Dame students want to both get experience in their fields and make an impact,” she said. “And this is a wonderful way to do that.” 
Lauren Evans said under­graduates can get involved in other branches of the project, too. These include library construc­tion, engineer staff training, fun­draising, library program devel­opment, economic development consulting and art. 
“If they are Education majors and they want to help me create a curriculum to train the engi­neering staff, they are absolutely welcome,” Lauren Evans said. “If they are geared toward business and marketing, we can use them too.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
tually honoring Haitians, as well.” 
Reifenberg said this year’s award is especially relevant to Notre Dame’s longstanding en­gagement with Haiti. 
“This is a particularly special recognition for Notre Dame, giv­en Notre Dame’s long tradition of commitment to Haiti,” Reifenberg said. “And I think it is a commit­ment that is only growing as the programs the University has in health, education, infrastructure and the study of language and cul­tures continue to grow. I think that while a specific individual is being recognized, it is part of a broader commitment.” 
According to the Kellogg Insti­tute’s website, former recipients of the prize include President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil, hu­man rights activist Helen Mack Chang and Cardinal Rodríguez Maradiaga. 
Contact tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
Waste 
continued from page 1 

average patron of South Dining Hall wasted 6.01 ounces of food per meal. The November data revealed that this number has fallen to 5.11 ounces — a 15 per­cent decrease. 
North Dining Hall increased its waste slightly during the challenge, going from 3.27 ounc­es to 3.34 ounces wasted. 
Combined, the campus de­creased from 4.26 to 4.23 ounces wasted per person per meal. 
“We did pretty well, since the recorded total number of people who didn’t waste in both dining halls was 949,” Davis said. “The exciting thing is, if we maintain this level of reduction, we’ll be saving 67,500 pounds of food per year in South Dining Hall.” 
Davis said some of the reduc­tion could be attributed to the smaller trays now used in South Dining Hall, but that the project’s work to increase awareness was also a definite success. 
“It’s so easy to just take more food than you need when you’re going through the dining hall,” Davis said. “If people kept the project’s idea in the back of their minds, we could save an unbe­lievable amount of food.” 
Sophomore Tim Bontrager was named winner of the raffle Wednesday and was awarded the 100 Flex Points. 
Davis said one common mis­conception about dining hall waste blames Food Services for the waste problems, claiming the organization makes too much food and disposes of it after each meal. However, Davis said, left­over cooked food is donated to two local homeless shelters and not added to the wasted food to­tal. 
While the University is very conscious of food disposal, little can be done with the leftovers that students leave on their trays, and by addressing this issue, the Waste-Free project solves a dif­ferent aspect of the dining hall sustainability problem, she said. 
“We really wanted to create a positive image for the whole thing, instead of making people feel reprimanded for wasting,” Davis said. “If we can continue this trend, we can make a big difference.” 
Contact ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Gingrich defends campaign 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Surging in opinion polls, a confident Newt Gingrich declared Mon­day he plans to challenge Barack Obama in every state next year, and he began run­ning a gauzy TV ad — his first — to push toward the Republican nomination to take on the president. But, il­lustrating how far he has to go, Gingrich also found him­self defending the state of his campaign and his own com­ments about poor children. 
“I do not suggest children until about 14 or 15 years of age do heavy, dangerous jani­torial work,” Gingrich told re­porters. “On the other hand, there are a number of things done to clean buildings that are not heavy or dangerous.” 
He’s drawn fire over the past week for suggesting that poor children as young as 9 should work at least part time cleaning their schools in or­der to learn about work. 
As Gingrich volunteers scrambled in some states to meet deadlines to get his name on ballots, the candi­date dismissed the notion that his team wasn’t up to the task of waging a credible challenge against the better-funded, better-organized Mitt Romney. “We run a very de­centralized campaign,” Gin­grich insisted. “The system works.” 
With only one month until the first presidential votes are cast, the GOP race has seemed to narrow to a contest be­tween Gingrich and Romney. 
Each spent the day wooing donors, Gingrich on the East Coast and Romney on the West Coast, as the hunt for cash intensified ahead of the string of costly contests that begin Jan. 3 in Iowa. The two will cross paths Wednesday as the candidates all convene in Washington to court Jew­ish voters and again Saturday at a debate in Iowa, the first of three planned for December. 
This one is shaping up as a pivotal debate, given that Gin­grich’s recent comeback has been fueled largely by a string of strong performances in which he demonstrated poli­cy expertise and was able to appear statesmanlike while steering clear of criticizing his GOP rivals. He is the lat­est GOP candidate to enjoy a burst of momentum and he’s working to prove that, unlike the others who have risen and fallen, he’s a serious contend­er with staying power. 


Tuesday, December 6, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Postal problems delay mail 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Utility bills are paid, legal briefs are filed and the Christmas shopping all gets done online. But for magazines, clothing cata­logues and movies, the mail still matters. 
For some mail-dependent businesses, quick and cheap first-class mail service from the U.S. Postal Service is still the best way to reach prospec­tive customers and subscrib­ers. And for many, it’s still an important way to get paid. 
The Postal Service, which has been losing money for five years, said Monday that it is shuttering more than 200 mail processing centers, adding at least a day’s wait for many first-class deliveries. The news was met with concern and frustration from some businesses — and shrugs from others that long ago stopped relying on the post office. 

“It’s less of a disaster than it would have been 10 years ago, but it’ll be a cash flow crunch for some companies,” said Todd McCracken, presi­dent and chief executive of the National Small Business Asso­ciation. “It’ll be longer to get your invoice, and longer to get a check back.” 
First-class mail is supposed to arrive at U.S. homes and businesses in one to three days; about 42 percent of it ar­rives in one day. The cutbacks will back up deliveries to two to three days; periodicals could take up to nine days. 
Cookie Driscoll of Fairfield, Pa., designs and sells deco­rative animal stickers to gift shops. She uses the Postal Service for almost all deliv­eries because prices are low and predictable, and delivery is fast. She also receives most of her income by paper checks through the mail. 
“The trickle-down effect of this is going to be frustrat­ing,” she said. “It’s not going to put me out of business but it’s an irritant. Every time small businesses turn around we get hit with something else.” 
The change could represent an operational headache for 
L.L.
 Bean, which mails 250 million catalogues a year to sell outdoor clothing and equipment. Now the company knows the day its catalogues will arrive in homes, and it can put on extra staff at call centers on the appointed day. It won’t be able to do that any­more. 

“We are increasingly con­cerned about any proposal that would degrade the level of service such as greater variability in delivery dead­lines,” said Carolyn Beem, an 

L.L.
 Bean spokeswoman. 




Politicians clash over Israeli foreign policy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama and his Repub­lican opponents are clashing over U.S. policy toward Israel as each side jockeys for sup­port from Jewish voters, who could be critical in the 2012 election. 
Aiming to cast Obama as unfairly harsh toward Israel and soft on the Palestinians, Republican presidential hope­fuls Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich have called on the president to fire his ambas­sador to Belgium. The envoy, Howard Gutman, had said that some anti-Semitism stemmed from tensions between Israel and the Palestinians; Romney and Gingrich say his remarks unfairly blamed Israel. 
The White House says Obama has a strong record on support for Israel, and quickly fired back with a statement condemning “anti-Semitism in all its forms.” The State De­partment said Gutman would remain in his job. 
Republicans also challenged Obama’s assertion at a fun­draiser last week that “this administration has done more in terms of the security of the state of Israel than any previ­ous administration.” Romney said Obama has “repeatedly thrown Israel under the bus” 
— an accusation the Repub­lican National Committee re­peated Monday. 
Firing back, Democratic Na­tional Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz called Romney’s comments “outrageous” and questioned his own policies. The White House cited military aid to Is­rael and support at the United Nations, and pointed to state­ments from Israeli officials backing up Obama’s assertion. 
The fiery debate will likely continue Wednesday when the GOP presidential candidates attend a Washington forum hosted by the Republican Jew­ish Coalition. 
Obama campaign officials say they will be ready to respond. And the next day, Jewish lead­ers will be at the White House for briefings on Israel and a Hanukkah party, followed by an Obama speech next week to an expected audience of nearly 6,000 at a conference of the Union for Reform Judaism. 
Such attention is all being paid in recognition that Jew­ish voters, though comprising only 2 percent of the elector­ate nationwide, are an impor­tant part of Obama’s base and could make the difference in battleground states including Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Nevada in a close election. Moreover, the Jewish commu­nity is an important source of donations, and Obama cam­paign supporters want to maintain that support as much as Republicans want to chip away at it. 
“This campaign takes the Jewish vote very, very seri­ously,” said Ira Forman, the Obama campaign Jewish out­reach director. “I’m confident this will be the most compre­hensive effort in presidential campaign history.” 
The White House outreach has increased since May when Obama caused a furor by call­ing for Israel’s 1967 borders, with agreed-upon land swaps, as a basis for resuming nego­tiations toward a two-state solution with the Palestinians. Israeli Prime Minister Benja­min Netanyahu rejected the ‘67 borders as indefensible and largely disregarded Obama’s emphasis on land swaps to ac­count for current conditions. 
Republicans seized on the dispute. And while Obama sup­porters say his argument was widely mischaracterized, dam­age was done. Now the Obama campaign and its backers say they are determined to respond rapidly to such criticism in fu­ture. 
“We are trying to responsibly respond to all of these unsub­stantiated or false allegations, but there are so many of them, and they are so frequently re­cited despite the fact that the people who are spreading them have to know that they’re false, that it’s hard to keep up with them,” said Alan Solow, an Obama fundraiser and long­time associate. 
The effort involves using sur­rogates including Vice Presi­dent Joe Biden, and use of the president’s own time in public appearances and private talks with donors and religious lead­ers, such as a conference call between Obama and rabbis ahead of the Jewish New Year this fall. 
The Obama campaign also is going on the offense against Republicans. In conversations about the Jewish vote, Obama backers are quick to bring up comments by Romney, Gingrich and Rick Perry at a debate last month suggesting they would start foreign aid for all coun­tries at zero. Obama support­ers say would imperil funding for Israel, even though the can­didates also sought to affirm their support for the Jewish state. 
Democratic candidates typi­cally enjoy a big electoral ad­vantage among Jewish voters. Obama won 78 percent of the Jewish vote in 2008, compared with 21 percent for Republican John McCain. 
But Gallup has found that Obama’s approval rating among Jews has fallen from 83 percent in January 2009 to 54 percent in late summer and early fall of this year. Still, that figure is much higher than his overall 41 percent approval rating, and the drop-off in sup­port was about in line with oth­er voter groups. 
Sid Dinerstein, chairman of the Palm Beach County Re­publican Party in Florida, pre­dicted that Obama would be limited to around 60 percent of the Jewish vote in 2012. Obama backers say that won’t happen, but it could mean a potential­ly decisive difference of tens of thousands of votes in key states. 
A candidate’s position on Is­rael may not be the top issue for most Jewish voters, who like others are more motivated by jobs and the economy. But it’s important to many, and Republicans see an opening, given the consternation over Obama’s 1967 borders speech, his administration’s rebukes of Israel for building settlements in disputed areas, and a re­cent incident in which Obama was overheard appearing to endorse criticism of Netanyahu from French President Nicolas Sarkozy. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, December 6, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

When I grow up: A lobsterman 
When I was younger, I wanted to be a lobsterman when I grew up. And by younger, I mean until I was about 10. And no, I didn’t want to be a lobsterwoman, I wanted to be a lobsterman — I didn’t really un­derstand the con­cept of making my job title politically correct. 
I had it all planned out. I was going to live in Gloucester, the town my father grew up in on the North Shore of Massachusetts. My boat’s name was going to be “The Merry Sea,” a play on my own name (I know, even at a young age, I was pretty punny). All lobstermen need distinctive buoys so they know which traps belong to them. Mine were green and blue striped. And I would drive a baby blue pickup truck, perfect for haul­ing around all my traps. 
This dream didn’t come out of nowhere. In his youth, my father worked for one summer on the lobsterboat of a family friend, and we even still have a trap or two of his. When my siblings and I were in preschool, we always brought the trap and my dad in for our Show-and-Tell day. Using a toy lobster that squeaked when you squeezed it, he would demonstrate how the traps worked and how you caught lobsters. To a four-year-old, it was the coolest thing ever. 
We also had some children’s books on lobstering. I ate those books up when I learned to read and just kept the dream alive. Actual experience in pulling traps helped fuel my de­sires. One of my dad’s friends from Gloucester still has traps, and often when we went fishing with him, he had to check a few traps. Okay, so it wasn’t real experience — I just did some heavy looking-on — but it meant the world to me. 
It also helped that I have always loved the ocean — and lobster. I grew up for much of my life in Mas­sachusetts and both sets of grand­parents lived in coastal towns in the Northeast. My summers were spent on the beach, frolicking amongst the waves or collecting buckets of shells and sea glass. Just getting a whiff of a salty sea breeze can brighten my day. I knew I would love the life of a lobsterman, because what could be better than spending my life out on the sea? 
And so, my life was planned out. Or at least my young self thought so. As I grew up and hit my teen years, I vacillated between other careers I was convinced I would have when I grew up, but I can’t remember what those were. But I can remember viv­idly my life as a lobsterman. 
So if anyone is selling a baby blue pickup truck, I am applying for jobs and might want to revisit my child­hood dreams. I’ll just dust off the lobster traps in my garage. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at       modonne5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Scene Writer 
How the Gipper stole Christmas 
Every Domer in South Bend liked Christmas a lot, 
But the Gipper, whose ghost wandered campus, did not. 
The Gipp hated Christmas!  He had a good reason! 
I’ve some idea why — the end of football season. 
But that wasn’t all that made old Gipp cross, 
Nor was it merely the great perma-frost. 
One thing about Christmas old Gipp did detest: 
Why did the stu­dents have to take all those tests? 
Gipp knew the cause of this lack of enjoyment: 
Students must pass to find gainful employment. 
But in his good heart Gipp had a con­cern: 
“With Christmas so near, just how can they learn? 
The garlands, the stockings, the lights and the holly; 
It’s too hard to focus when things are so jolly.” 
The well-meaning Gipp wondered what could be done, 
and then he recalled:  “Econ 101! 
To help all these students become more attentive 
I’ll simply create a learning incentive. 
They have to be studying, all that time lost; 
I’ll make them forget the opportunity cost. 
Take away all the hallmarks of holiday cheer. 
Make the whole campus bleak and 

Grace Concelman 
Options and Futures 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
austere.” 

So the Gipper emerged to sneak through the halls, 
Take down all the mistletoe, scour the walls. 
The sweaters he stuffed one by one into barrels, 
And stole all the soundtracks of Christ­mas carols. 
He ripped wrapping paper off doors all dressed up. 
He even took every last red Starbucks cup. 
But as the Gipp slipped away with his booty, 
He floated right past an RA on duty. 
“Where are you going with all of that stuff?” 
The RA demanded, trying to sound tough. 
“Quick, everyone come to stop this old specter, 
Please someone run and go get the Rector!” 
More students descended with lots of hostility, 
“You’re stealing away all our utility! 
Consumption at Christmastime brings us much cheer; 
It’s why it is still the best time of the year. 
Our demand for Christmas is quite inelastic. 
You’ll find we will go to lengths quite fantastic 
To maintain our spirits as we close a semester 
Your theft will not stop us, you Christ­mas protester! 
The Gipp looked around with a tear in his eye 
It really seemed as though he might cry! 
“Please do not think I’ve an evil men­tality, 
I wanted to remove an externality. 
A consequence you students didn’t expect 
When you were ensuring your halls were all decked 
Was that Christmas would provide such a distraction; 
Not studying would be the normal reaction. 
I really just had your best interests in mind 
When I took all the Christmas things I could find.” 
The students replied, “But a little digression 
Helps us not slide into abject depres­sion! 
The lights and the sweaters, they make us smile. 
Carols and bells make studying worth­while. 
We know, Mr. Gipp, that you meant to do good 
But really we think you misunderstood. 
Cheerful students do better, we do insist 
Yes, Christmas and finals week can coexist!” 
The Gipper’s heart sank as he saw his mistake 
He returned all the goods, every last snowflake. 
The students forgave him in true Christmas spirit, 
And they rejoiced loudly so that all could hear it, 
Then adjourned to the dining hall to eat a great feast, 
And yes, they allowed him to carve their roast beast. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You can’t help getting older, but you don’t have to get old.” 
George Burns 
U.S. actor and comedian 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Three failures denote uncommon strength. A weakling has not enough grit to fail thrice.” 
Minna Thomas Antrim American writer 


Tuesday, December 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Thoughts amidst the failure of the ‘Super Committee’ 
“Failure.” This word accurately and succinctly sums up the efforts of the so-called “Super Committee.” This committee, composed of six Republi­cans and six Democrats, was charged with finding between $1.2-1.5 Adam Newman trillion in deficit reductions by the Scientia end of the year. Potentia Est If this group was unable to come up with any savings, $1.2 trillion in automatic cuts, half to defense and half to social programs, would go into effect in 2013. Many hoped that these highly concentrated cuts to social programs and defense would incentivize the Super Committee to create a more balanced plan that included reforms to entitlements and new tax revenues. 
Many Democrats, like Senator John Kerry, wanted to “go big” and create a deficit reduction package of $4 trillion with $3 in spending cuts for every $1 in revenue increases. However, Re­publicans refused to endorse any plan that increased overall tax revenue. Two days before their late November deadline, the co-chairs of the Super Committee announced that talks had broken down. 
One does not have to be a White House political advisor to understand 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you, Dayne 
Thank you, Dayne. 

Over the past four years you have been a model of how Christ calls each of us to live. You have shown not just those affiliated with this University, but this entire nation, what Notre Dame truly stands for. Even as you faced so much adversity on the field, you never wavered in who you are. 
As an alumnus of ACE, I know first-hand how much this world needs people like you 
—
 quality role models for our youth to look up to. We don’t always know how much of an impact we have on people, but I want you to know my students look up to you. The example you set by the way you live your life means a lot to them, and I hope you never forget how even the little things we do can have a lasting impact. 

It will be difficult to see you on the field somewhere else next season, but I wish you the best, athletically and in life. You deserve nothing but the best, no matter what your future holds. I will be proud to call you a fellow alumnus of this great University. May God bless you wherever life takes you. And please never forget, you are a Domer for life 

—
 you will always have a family here, and 


Notre Dame will always be home. Thank you! 

Steve Johnson 
alumnus ACE 16 Dec. 5 


the Republican strategy. The Presi­dent’s unpopularity, the weak economy and the ability of Republicans to unite on a platform of “no” has given them an opportunity to ask: “Why make a deal where we get 50 percent of what we want while Barack Obama is President and the Democrats hold the Senate, when we can get 100 percent of what we want when Mitt Romney is President and Republicans hold the Senate and House?” 
Besides this strategy being ex­tremely cynical, it is also misguided. If Republicans sweep the 2012 elections and subsequently try to unilaterally reform Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, they will fail. And if they do not fail, they will pay a major politi­cal price in the next election. This will be due to a re-energized Democratic Party eager to oppose the Republicans and the general public reacting to Republican “overreach.” This explains why the Republicans should have ac­cepted the offer of Super Committee Democrats, because the Republicans may never get a deal as good from the Democrats again. 
I will end by asking a very simple question: Where was the president during the Super Committee ordeal? I am sure that the president’s political advisors told him that the Super Com­mittee was the equivalent of a black hole. It was never going to succeed given the differences that Republicans and Democrats have, so it would only weaken the president’s standing if he got involved and the committee subse­quently failed. 

I understand that Barack Obama is in a tough position because any meaningful deficit reduction plan has to include reforms to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Many Demo­crats believe that even discussing en­titlement reform disgraces the guard­ian-like role the party has maintained over these programs for generations. At the very least, reforming entitle­ments would greatly upset the liberal base less than a year before the 2012 election. 
The president could hedge against these losses by finally endorsing the deficit reduction plan of his own fiscal commission, nicknamed “Bowles-Simpson.” Bowles-Simpson may have provisions that the president does not like, but it is much more balanced than any proposal the Republicans will ever offer. The president’s endorsement of Bowles-Simpson will silence the Fox News Analysts who say he is fiscally irresponsible, show the business com­munity that he is serious about fixing the dysfunctional tax code, continue to show the liberal base that he wants to raise taxes on the wealthy and most importantly show the American people that he can effectively lead on a tough issue, rather than kick the can down the road. 
I am sure that when President Obama announced his candidacy in 2007, deficit reduction was not on top of his list of priorities. But comparing the political climate of 2011 to that of 2007 is similar to comparing night and day. The tides have changed, and the president should adapt by offering a long-term deficit reduction plan while simultaneously offering solutions for short-term stimulus. 
But at this point in Obama’s tenure, my guess is that the president is going to “stay the course” with his illusive leadership on long-term deficit reduc­tion. This is unfortunately expected during the run-up to an election. Even still, I hope that President Obama remembers that future generations do not build statues to people who sat on the fence. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anew­man3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

UWIRE Postal Service’s struggles still resonate today 
You may want to consider giving your postman a little something more than a holiday fruitcake this year, for his job may be gone before next Christmas. 
A press release posted on the United States Postal Service (USPS) website this past November reported that the USPS would be ending its 2011 fiscal year with a $5.1 billion net loss. Had it not been for passed legislation postponing a con­gressionally mandated $5.5 billion to pre-fund retiree health benefits, that loss would have been at $10.6 billion. 
This is not good news. For months now, media speculation has predicted that the 236-year-old 
Rebecca institution could be closing its doors sooner than we think. 
Rosman This May, Bloomberg Businessweek’s cover story, “The U.S. Postal Service Nears Collapse,” pre­
dicted that without a major makeover, USPS would “implode.” The Daily A September opinions headline in the International Business Times predicted the USPS could be Illini finished by the end of this year. Yes, the U.S. Postal Service may be going away for good — but do we care? For the vast majority of today’s tech-generation, where bills can be paid online and emails can be sent and received anywhere in the world with an Internet connection instantly, the USPS has essentially become obsolete. If that isn’t enough of an answer, check your mailbox. My mailbox unveiled an Internet bill (likely to be paid online), 
two coupon catalogues (likely to be thrown in the trash) and one package addressed to my roommate (sent via UPS). 
So yes, for many, the closing of the USPS may very well go unnoticed. 
Others, upon hearing the news of the possibility, may wander into a state of nostalgia, reminiscing the days of hand­written love letters and holiday party invitations in sealed envelopes. 
And for the 571,566 full-time workers employed by USPS (the second-largest civilian employer after Wal-Mart Stores), a closing wouldn’t simply be nostalgically depressing, it would mean over half a million people would be out of a job. 
Since its opening in 1775, the USPS has worked something of a miracle, delivering pen pal letters, Halloween candy parcels, love poems and the like anywhere within the U.S. borders. Today’s delivery guarantees go so far as postmen using snowmobiles to reach the high hills of Alaska or mules to deliver parcels within the depths of the Grand Canyon, starting at 44 cents for a simple letter. How’s that for a deal? 
Its own government agency, the USPS has been legally obligated to deliver the mail six days a week anywhere within the United States, “binding the nation together through the personal, educational, literary and business correspon­dence of the people.” 
One large problem, however, is that much of today’s “correspondence” is built upon the mass junk mail advertisers, which last year consisted of “9.3 billion pounds” of the nation’s mail — compared to only 3.7 billion pounds of first-class envelopes. 
In a recent New York Times article, “Junking of the Postal Service,” Ian Lee, a professor of strategic management at the Sprott School of Business at Carleton University in Ottawa asked, “If the Postal Service has become a subsidized tool for mass mailers, why does the state still own it?” 
It’s a valid point. But I still stand with the post I’ve grown up with for 21 years for a blended mix of reasons from nostalgia, worker support, to — quite honestly — sheer reliance. 
Just like my parents, I pay the majority of my bills by check sent through the post. Each month, I ritually send a handwritten letter to my pen pal in Arkansas. And while I may be an oddity considering my age, there remains a large bracket of Americans who have relied on USPS for decades. 
Which is why, maybe for this Christmas, that something extra you give your postman should be a first-class letter. In fact, make it a handwritten letter to a loved one far away, or even close by. 
This year especially, there’s going to be more than one reason to appreciate a 44-cent post. 
This article first ran in the Dec. 5 edition of The Daily Illini, the daily publication serving the University of Illinois. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, December 6, 2011 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, December 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 

Last week, Saint Mary’s College hosted its first annual Cupcake Battle Royale in Le Mans Hall. Students from Saint Mary’s baked the best cupcakes they could, and three were entered into the competition. 
Thanks to my plethora of food and cupcake related articles, I was se­lected as one of the three celebrity judges for the competition. The others included Janielle Tchake­rian, assistant vice presi­
dent of Student Affairs and 


it, though, was director of Residence Life 
the unnecessary & Community Standards 
Life Savers mint (and, officially, “Faculty 
on top acting Member With the Longest 
as a decoration. Title at Saint Mary’s”) and 
However, that is Becky Woods, maintenance 
more a personal specialist. The following 
prejudice against is my cupcake-by-cupcake 
Life Savers mints breakdown of the Battle 
(I just do not get Royale. the hole in the 
Cupcakes were judged middle). and awarded based on three separate Next up was the Reese’s Cupcake. criteria: taste, decoration and creativ-This was a chocolate cake with Reese’s ity of the name. The three cupcakes in competition were the Peppermint Pop­per, Reese’s Cupcake and Despicable Treats. 

The first cupcake on the slate was the Peppermint Popper. Though nicely cooked and moist, the “funfetti” cake was fairly small. The frosting, how­ever, was quite incredible. The pep­permint buttercream had a perfect flavor balance of sweet with mint. Red and green crunchy sprinkle balls on top added texture and Christmas color to the cake. One qualm I had with 

bits baked into it, topped with a vanilla frosting. While the frosting was store bought, firm and overly sweet, the cake itself was delicious. It’s not hard to imagine the pairing of chocolate and peanut butter tasting good. 
Last on the 

and Despicable table was the De-
Treats won for spicable Treats 
decoration. That cupcake. This 
being said, they cupcake was de­
were all great in signed to look like 
their own way, one of the minions 
but I of course I from the movie 
had my person­“Despicable Me” 
al favorite. For and actually did 
me, Despicable quite a good job Treats literally slightly on the stale side, the cupcake came together very nicely. 

Each of the cupcakes was a winner in one of the three categories: the Pepper­mint Popper won the name contest, the Reese’s Cupcake won for taste 

of that. The cake was made from yellow cake mix, but was dyed to look half blue and half yellow. Surprising­ly, it was perfectly moist and the best baked. There was a blue, whipped va­nilla frosting, and coming out of the cake was half a Twinkie delicately decorated with chocolate and Smart­ies to make it resemble its big screen counterpart. Despite the Twinkie being took the cake. Pun intended. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at  achawla@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at  achawla@nd.edu 


By COURTNEY COX 
Associate Scene Editor 

Teen phenom Justin Bieber entered the holiday music market much to the excitement of 13 year olds across the world. 
His new album “Under the Mistle­toe,” as one may be able to infer from the title, focused less on the spirit of the season than the romance that could possibly be associated with Christmas. Instead of preparing lis­teners for the holiday, it only served to raise Bieber Fever to a whole new level. 
The opening song of the album per­fectly exemplified this theme. Titled, “Only Thing I Ever Get for Christmas,” the song is essentially the teenage boy version of “All I Want for Christmas is You.” Bieber sang, “You’re the single item on my list, you’re my one and only Christmas wish” as millions of girls fainted.  
The smooth, 90s boy band quality of the song made it a little more ap­proachable for older fans, who would rather associate themselves with the Backstreet Boys than any of today’s teen stars. 
Bieber latched onto the image of mistletoe as a way to communicate the romance of the chilly winter months and Christmas season throughout out the album. 
The second song and first single off the record is aptly titled “Mistletoe.” In perhaps one of the only explicit references to any Christian tradition on the album, Bieber sang “The Wise Men followed a star the way I follow my heart.” Deep. 
“Mistletoe,” like “Only Thing I Ever Get for Christmas” was, however, a re­freshing departure from the ultra-up­beat pop concoctions that people have come to expect of Bieber. 
Bieber’s Christmas love-fest contin­ued throughout the rest of the album in songs like “Christmas Eve,” where he said that Christmas “Sort of feels like Valentine’s” and remarks that “The mistletoe can pull us closer.” “All I Want is You” and “Christmas Love” were in the same vein, the only differ­ence being the melodies. 
“Under the Mistletoe” boasts im­pressive collaborations with everyone from Bieber’s biggest fan and produc­er, Usher, to The Band Perry and Bus­ta Rhymes. Most interesting, however, is Bieber’s duet with Mariah Carey. 

The duo reprised Carey’s Christ­mas classic “All I Want for Christmas is You,” in a way that’s more than a little strange. Carey’s vocals haven’t changed at all since she first recorded the song and it seems as if Bieber’s verses were just plopped onto the track. They didn’t change anything about it at all except for some random ad-libbing by both Bieber and Carey. 
Anyone who has seen “Never Say Never” knows that Bieber has great respect for the drums, but that didn’t come out at all in “Drummer Boy.” He sings the classic chorus, but has in­serted rap sections interchangeably in a completely unexpected and sort of puzzling way. 
When Busta Rhymes said “Let’s gather ‘round the fireplace, it’s about to get hot in here,” the song really lost any kind of holiday quality it had maintained up to that point. In fact, that line would be way more appropri­ate in some club/dance track. 
The album can be divided into two distinct categories: classic songs Bieber has made a questionable at­tempt to modernize and original songs that are entirely about love and rela­tionships. He took a considerable risk with many of the older songs, but the original tracks are exactly what his fan base wanted, so in that regard Bieber has succeeded. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

Label: Island Records Standout Tracks: “Mistletoe,” “Home This Christmas” and “Someday at Christmas” 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Tuesday, December 6, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bowl schedule out, the debate begins 
The college football bowl schedule is officially out, and people are angry, as always. The computer overlords have once again messed up all that is holy in col­lege football, providing the talking heads at ESPN and online with two weeks of scream­ing material over snubs, rematches and those rankings. 
This year, most of the drama centered on the top three teams in the poll, as the voters/cyborgs opted for an LSU vs. Alabama rematch instead of the much clamored for showdown between offen­sive-minded Oklahoma State and stingy Louisiana State. If only there was some way 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
1.
 Beef O’ Brady’s — Nation­al chain of pubs and appar­ently there’s one in Granger. Official slogan: “Meet me at Beef’s!” 

2.
 Northrop Grumman — They build precision weapons and defense technology. Great marketing just in time for Christmas. Military Aircraft: The Perfect Stocking Stuffer! 


3. Famous Idaho Potatoes 
— Part of this balanced bowl season. 
Top Three Heisman Hope­fuls: 
1.
 Trent Richardson, RB, Alabama — He’s carried the No. 2 team in the country and he’s got the numbers to bring it home. In the SEC, that’s say­ing something. 

2.
 Robert Griffin III, QB, Baylor — If Andrew Luck played his way out of con­tention toward the end of the season, Griffin has only 


moved up in voters’ minds with incred­ible perfor­mances. Bay-

everyone  Andrew Luck? Honey  lor has one too  
could agree  Badger don’t care  many losses  
on those top  about Andrew Luck.  for him to win,  

three. 
Well, now they can. I hereby present to you the top three rankings for everything you need to know about bowl season. 
Top Three BCS Snubs: 
1. 
Boise State — Not only does one-loss Boise get booted out of the BCS, but they also somehow get slotted in the MAACO Bowl against Arizona State. The last time we gave Boise State a chance to play a power confer­ence in a bowl game, they beat Oklahoma in one of the greatest games in college history. Since then? East Carolina, TCU twice and Utah. People always ask how the Broncos would fare if they were in a big-time confer­ence. Let’s find out. 

2.
 Arkansas — The Razor­backs play in the best confer­ence in the nation, and their two losses came to the top two teams in the country. Now the No. 6 Razorbacks play No. 8 Kansas State in the Cotton Bowl, while we have to watch No. 15 Clemson and No. 23 West Virginia in the BCS Orange Bowl. How do these numbers work again? 

3.
 Georgia — Looked like the Bulldogs might upset LSU last week, but then the second half happened. 


Top Three Random Bowl Sponsors: though. 
3. Tyrann Mathieu, CB, LSU — He’s just one piece of an unreal 
LSU defense, but his two punt returns in the SEC Champi­onship game will give him a boost up to bronze. Andrew Luck? Honey Badger don’t care about Andrew Luck. 
Top Three Teams in the country: 
1.
 LSU — You beat every­one in the country, and you look good doing it. Generally makes you No. 1. 

2.
 Alabama — In a perfect ranking system, No. 2 only loses to No. 1, and it’s a pretty close game. That’s just what happened in the overtime prequel in November. They’ve blown out every other team they’ve played, including Arkansas, Florida and Penn State. 

3.
 Oklahoma State — A solid résumé and very fun to watch, but an overtime loss to Iowa State is not the same as an overtime loss to LSU. Sorry. 


Hey, maybe the computers actually got that one right. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GOLF 

Tiger’s victory signals return to form 
Associated Press 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — Earl Woods could blow smoke with the best of them, yet it was always entertaining. 
Such was the case years ago when he was raving about how Tiger Woods thoroughly enjoyed the biggest stage in golf, because his son knew he could perform under pres­sure. But if that were true, then how did Woods butcher the final round of the Quad City Classic when he had a chance to win in his third start as a pro? 
“It took me a while to figure out why he didn’t win,” Earl Woods said in a 2003 inter­view. “Then it dawned on me and I told my wife, ‘Tiger is going to win in Las Vegas.’ Because in his subconscious mind, he did not want to win his first tournament in some ... place like Quad Cities.” 
Woods ended the longest drought of his career — 26 tournaments without a win over 749 days — at the Chev­ron World Challenge, and whether that was the ideal place for him to finally pose with a trophy again depends on the perspective. 
In one respect, he came full circle at Sherwood Country Club. 
This was the first tourna­ment that Woods skipped in the immediate aftermath of Thanksgiving night 2009, when his personal life im­ploded. And it was at this tournament last year when he blew a four-shot lead and lost to Graeme McDowell in a playoff, a sign that something wasn’t quite right with his game. 
On Sunday, he looked like the Woods of old by making clutch birdie putts on the last two holes to beat Zach John­son, who played bogey-free on the back nine. 
Then again, Johnson was one of only 17 players Woods had to beat at Sherwood. 
Even though the Chev­ron World Challenge had 11 of the top 25 players in the world ranking — the most of any tournament in the world last week — some of the easi­est events to win have the smallest fields. And the field shrinks even more when free money is being offered ($140,000 for last place). It also could be argued that some players had one eye on the holiday season. For 12 of the 18 players at Sherwood, that was their last tourna­ment of the year. 
Some will never be satis­fied, though. 
Woods could win his first tournament of 2012 in Abu Dhabi, and skeptics won’t think it matters until he wins on the PGA Tour (Europe has more top players, though the depth is lacking). He could win at Pebble Beach, and some will say the only measure is the majors. 
Here’s how to gauge Sun­day: It was a significant win because it was significant to Woods. 
He said in August that his left leg feels as strong as it has in years, and that much should be believed. “If the man is healthy, that’s paramount,” Johnson said. 
Woods said he has been working hard on his new swing over the last three months, and that much was evident based on the quality of shots he hit at the Australian Open, at the Presidents Cup and at the Chevron World Challenge. 
What he needs is confidence, and making two key putts with a tournament on the line is only going to help. 
Steve Stricker played with Woods in the opening round at Sherwood a year ago when Woods opened with a 65. He was with him for the first round this year when Woods shot 69 in gusting conditions. 
“Last year I played with him here in the first round and I thought, ‘Wow, this guy is back,’” Steve Stricker said. “But you could tell this time around, he’s got even more confidence and more game. He feels even better about the di­rection he’s headed.” 
We’ll have to wait a few months to see exactly where it’s headed. 
Woods said he worked so hard after missing the cut in the PGA Championship that despite winning so late in the year, he was looking forward to a break. He will not compete again for nearly two months — until starting his 2012 season in Abu Dhabi against a world-class field, with Martin Kaymer as the defending champion. 

“This tournament would be a good win for him,” Stricker said as Woods was locked in a duel with Johnson on the back nine. “It’s not against a full field or anything like that, but there are good players here. This would be a great stepping stone for him.” 
Even when it was considered part of the silly season, this tournament has a history of leading to better things for the winner. 
Tom Lehman won in 1999, and then captured the Phoe­nix Open the next year to end a four-year winless stretch on the PGA Tour. Davis Love III won in 2000 and two months later won at Pebble Beach for his first tour victory in nearly three years. Luke Donald won in 2005, and the next year won the Honda Classic for his first tour win in four years. It even worked for Woods at the end of 2004, which at the time was his worst year on tour. The fol­lowing season, he won two ma­jors. 
In the most recent example, and the one Woods cited on the 18th green, Jim Furyk won at Sherwood in 2009. The follow­ing year, Furyk had a career-high three wins on tour and captured the FedEx Cup. 
If there is a rush to declare that Woods is back — or at the very least, on his way — it’s because fans have been clam­oring for him to show signs of life. 
One win is not enough, even if it had been against a full field. And while the finish was vintage Woods, it looked as though he had to work much harder to give himself a chance at the end. How much Woods gains from this win will not be determined for several months. 
But he got something out of it, for sure. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Christmas Vacation quotes Clark: We’re kicking off our fun Eddie: You surprised to see us, Art: [to Rocky] You got a kiss for 
PERSONAL 

old fashion family Christmas by Clark? me? Clark: Can I refill your eggnog for heading out into the country in Clark: Oh, Eddie... If I woke up you? Get you something to eat? the old front-wheel drive sleigh tomorrow with my head sewn to Eddie: Better take a rain check on 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Drive you out to the middle of to embrace the frosty majesty of the carpet, I wouldn’t be more that, Art - he’s got a lip fungus they go it alone. Notre Dame has many nowhere and leave you for dead? the winter landscape and select surprised than I am now. ain’t identified yet... resources in place to assist you. #QUINNING that most important of Christmas If you or someone you love needs Eddie: Naw, I’m doing just fine, symbols. Clark: [a squirrel is loose in the confidential support or assistance, Clark.  house] Where is Eddie? He usually Rusty Griswold: Dad, this tree please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 eats these things. won’t fit in our back yard. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Eddie: She falls down a well, her Audrey: We’re not coming all information, visit ND’s website at: eyes go cross. She gets kicked the way out here just to get one Cousin Catherine Johnson: Not http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu by a mule. They go back. I don’t of those stupid ties with Santa recently, Clark. He read that Clark: It’s not going in the yard, 
know. Clauses on it are we? squirrels were high in cholesterol. Russ. It’s going in the living room. 
Tuesday, December 6, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NCAA 

NCAA promises new guidlines for handling abuse 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Mark Em­mert is willing to help colleges and universities do a better job protecting minors on campus. 
In the wake of two disturb­ing child sex-abuse allegations in the past month, the NCAA president said Monday he has contacted U.S. Education Sec­retary Arnie Duncan so he can advise school leaders about the best practices in dealing with ball boys, ball girls and stu­dents who at­tend summer crecy, you have the potential for abusive behavior whether it’s in the Catholic church, a school or whatever, and that applies to all of us, not just the NCAA,” Em­mert told reporters in Indianap­olis. 
Penn State has already said it is considering a change to its school policy, too. 
“We are looking at issues such as you mentioned,” school presi­dent Rod Erickson said. “For example, the sports camps, and 


camps. 

“When you have a veil 
“We’re look-

of secrecy, you have the 
ing into that 

potential for abusive 
right now,” 

behavior whether it’s in 
Emmert told 

the Catholic church, a 
The Associat­

ed Press. “Be-school or whatever, and cause we’ve that applies to all of us, never been not just the NCAA.” involved with this kind of 
Mark Emmert 
thing before, 

NCAA president 
we’re trying 
to determine what is the best thing to do.” 
Emmert did not provide spe­cific details on what those guidelines may include, how extensive they could be or when they might be completed. 
No, Emmert does not intend to add the guidelines to the mas­sive 400-plus page rulebook, but he wants to prevent future improprieties from occurring and wants to find out if there is a pervasive culture within athletic departments that could lead to cover-ups of criminal conduct. 
“When you have a veil of se­who was al­lowed to par­ticipate in the supervisory or oversight kind of role. But we’re also relying on the special inves­tigations task force, which is looking at every aspect of policy and practice. I’ve already said as part of my five promises that will im­plement the recommenda­
tions that come out of that inves­tigation.” 
Emmert’s comments came in the final month of a scandal-tinged year that has damaged the images of athletic programs from Boise State and Tennessee to Miami and Ohio State. 
But the recent allegations at Penn State and Syracuse are the most shocking. 
After a grand jury report ac­cused former Nittany Lions de­fensive coordinator Jerry San­dusky of abusing eight boys over a 15-year period, university trustees fired coach Joe Paterno and school President Graham Spanier. Two other former Penn State officials are charged with failing to report complaints of abuse and with lying to a grand jury. They have pleaded not guilty. 
Critics contended that Pa­terno, Spanier and other school officials should have done more to stop Sandusky, who is await­ing a preliminary hearing on 40 criminal counts. 
Last week, after three men ac­cused Bernie Fine of molesting them, Syracuse fired the long­time assistant basketball coach. Federal authorities are inves­tigating, but no charges have been filed. 
The Education Department announced a month ago that it would conduct an investiga­tion at Penn State. Rep. Patrick Meehan, R-Pa., a former U.S. attorney, has encouraged Dun­can to investigate possible Clery Act violations; the law requires schools to report the number of crimes on campus and provide warnings in a timely manner if safety is threatened. 
Emmert sent a letter to Penn State officials last month, notifying the cess on the one hand and all these grenades blowing up has been frustrating.” 
Emmert reiterated his desire to reform the rule book, say­ing NCAA leaders had held two meetings in the past week to discuss how to simplify the rule­book. He wants more emphasis on allegations that threaten the integrity of the game, a more streamlined hearing process and a multi-tiered penalty struc­ture, rather than the two-tiered system that currently exists. 
Those measures could be passed by April. 
“I am adamant, and the mem­bership is adamant, that we 
make changes 
quickly and 
that we base 
school that the NCAA had opened an inquiry into whether NCAA rules may have been vio­lated. Emmert has asked the  “I am adamant, and the membership is adamant, that we make changes quickly and that we base them around the core values of college athletics.”  them around the core val­ues of college athletics,” Em­mert said. He also re­jected the no­tion of pay­ing athletes  
school to an­swer ques­tions by Dec.  Mark Emmert NCAA president  more than the $2,000 stipend that was ap­ 
16, though he  proved by the  
acknowledged  board in Oc- 
Monday  that  tober, and ac- 

the ongoing investigations make knowledged that a college foot-it unlikely he would hear back ball playoff is likely to become a that soon. hot topic after this year’s bowl 
“We have been in touch with season because the BCS con-Penn State and their board of tracts expire in two years. trustees, and I would describe Could there be a playoff? Per-that relationship as extremely haps. Emmert mentioned the collaborative and we appreciate model of a bowl season plus-one, that,” Emmert said. “But I think a national championship game, it’s clear that it will be impos-though he expressed concerns sible for them to provide us with over injuries and academics if a lot of that information in that an eight-team or 16-team tour­timeframe. We certainly want nament were implemented. to get all of our questions an-“If you start with a playoff swered, so we’ll see what they’re model, you could have kids play-saying.” ing 16 games and that becomes 
Emmert has said previously a physical strain as well as a the information could lead to huge academic strain,” he said. a formal investigation at Penn “We’ve been looking at the con-State. struction of the current post-
Syracuse, however, is not fac-season calendar because you’re ing an NCAA inquiry — yet. seeing a creep into early Janu­
“We’ve not done that based on ary and a creep earlier into De-the information we have right cember. We want the games to now,” Emmert said. occur after the end of the semes-
But it’s clear Emmert is weary ter, the 15th or 16th of Decem­of all these allegations. ber, and before the start of the 
“We have had a heck of a year winter semester, so to fit a 16­of scandals and disruptions,” he team playoff into that timeframe said. “To have really good suc-would be pretty bloody tough.” 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, December 6, 2011 
CCHA 
continued from page 16 
has already played No. 1 Minnesota-Duluth, No. 3 Boston College and No. 4 Ohio State. The Irish will play No. 2 Minnesota on Jan. 7. 
The CCHA, Notre Dame’s hockey conference for 12 years, will dissolve follow­ing the 2012-13 season. Af­ter Penn State and, subse­quently, the Big Ten added hockey, the teams of the CCHA and Western Colle­giate Hockey Association (WCHA) were forced to re­align. 
“I kind of find [the depth of the CCHA] coincidental in the fact that the league is going to disband in two years,” Jackson said. 
Notre Dame (10-5-3, 7-2­3-0 CCHA) decided to join Hockey East for the 2013-14 season. 
The No. 7 Irish are 1-2 against Hockey East teams this year, beating Boston College but dropping two games against Northeast­ern. 
“There’s a lot of Hockey East flavor in our schedule this year,” Jackson said. 
He said Hockey East teams play a much more up-tempo, entertaining, fan-friendly game than the ones found in the CCHA. 
In the meantime, how­ever, fans will just have to settle for a loaded CCHA. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Whitcomb 
continued from page 16 
his great-grandfather Bengt von Rosen. Whitcomb recent­ly traveled to Germany to dis­cover more about his lineage. 
“They were a very noble family — barons and baron­esses, I believe. That’s kind of my lineage, and I’m just kind of a royal man,” he said. “[The Germans we spoke with] had all sorts of songs and stories about the von Rosens, and they were pretty excited to have us there. It was a small good following for a kingly man.” 

Whitcomb said he believes the freshman class is a spe­cial group of swimmers, and he is confident they have a bright future in the program. 
“I think myself and the se­nior class [have] done a good job of kind of showing them the way, and they seem to be fitting in very nicely. [The season] started off and [hav­ing a team of 16 freshmen] felt weird, but now it feels completely normal,” Whit­comb said. 
“It’s cool. It’s exciting for the time after I graduate. I think we’re headed in the right di­rection [with] the amount of guys we have and the talent that they’re bringing in.” 
Whitcomb and the Irish will return to action Jan. 6 at Copa Coqui in San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
town, so it was kind of a big event to have us there. [My teammates] say they call me the King, and I was treated like a king when I went back to my home land.” 
Whitcomb said he en­joys traveling in his free time. Asked to provide his wisest piece of life advice, 
he emphasized the impor­
tance  of  understanding  dif­ 
ferent ways of life.  
“Explore  the  world,  and  

don’t be afraid of it. I think a lot of people limit [their goals] to what they think they can do and what their future options can be, especially outside of college,” he said. “Personal­ly, I think it’s very important to maintain more of a global perspective and not necessar­ily get caught up in what the American culture might tell you is the key to success. Ex­plore your options, and don’t give up on your true passion in life.” 
Whitcomb began his swim­ming career at the age of five. The youngest of five boys, he had little choice but to follow the path of his older brothers, two of which swam at Nebras­ka. 
Whitcomb’s extensive reign as the youngest family mem­ber led to a sort of role rever­
“Explore the world, and don’t be afraid of it. I think a lot of people limit [their goals] to what they think they can do and what their future options can be, especially outside of college.” 
Jonathan Whitcomb senior 
sal this sea­son. 
A senior on a Notre Dame team of 16 fresh men, the King does not need to search far to find ser­vice. Whit­comb said he is a firm believer that the freshmen must occupy the front of the bus. 
“The king would de­mand re­spect, and 
that’s certainly what I do,” he said. “Certainly over the past few years, the younger guys have immediately realized that I need to be treated like a king. That involves putting away my stuff after practice or just being very courteous. [Having 16 freshmen on the team is] nice — definitely a 


Tuesday, December 6, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MLB 

Santo elected to Hall of Fame one year after death 
Associated Press 
DALLAS —  Ron Santo al­ways kept rooting for the causes dearest to him — for his Chicago Cubs to win the World Series, for doctors to find a cure for diabetes and for him to reach the Hall of Fame. 
On Monday, Cooperstown fi­nally came calling. 
The barrel-chested third baseman who clicked his heels in victory was elected to the Hall, overwhelmingly chosen by the Veterans Committee nearly a year to the day after he died hoping for this very honor. 
“It’s really exciting because so many years that we had parties over to his house in spring training saying this is the year, I’d tell him this is the year you’re going in,” said Hall of Fame teammate Billy Wil­liams, a member of the voting panel. 
“The one thing, of course, is he’s not here to enjoy it, but his family will. He long await­ed this, and we’re all happy. I know I’m happy, his family is happy, the fans of Chicago are happy,” he said. 
Santo was a nine-time All-Star, hit 342 home runs and won five Gold Gloves. He was a Cubs broadcaster for two decades, beloved by the home crowd for the way he eagerly cheered for his favorite team on the air, hollering “Yes! Yes!” or “All right!” after good plays and groaning “Oh, no!” or “It’s bad” when things went wrong. 
Shortly after the announce­ment, Santo’s flag — white with blue pinstripes, plus his name and No. 10 — was flying from the center pole atop the scoreboard at Wrigley Field. 
“There was always kind of a missing piece of the puzzle of Cubs’ history,” team owner Tom Ricketts said. 
Santo breezed in with 15 votes from the 16-member panel that met at baseball’s winter meetings. It took 75 percent — 12 votes — to get chosen. 
“I’ve got tears in my eyes writing this: congrats to the Santo family on Ron’s election to MLB Hall of Fame. A good day to be a Cub fan,” tweeted Chicago-area rocker Billy Cor­gan, frontman for the Smash­ing Pumpkins. 
Santo died Dec. 3, 2010, from complications of bladder cancer at age 70. He had dia­betes, which eventually cost him both legs below the knees, and worked tirelessly to raise millions for research into the disease. 
Williams was on the line when Santo’s widow, Vicki, got the congratulatory phone call. 
“Ron has passed, but it was always his dream, to even have this come to him after his pass­ing. It just shows you can’t give up,” she said during a confer­ence call from Arizona. 
“All he said (was) I hope I get in in my lifetime, that’s cer­tainly a reasonable request for anybody who gets an honor as special as this one. Unfortu­nately, it wasn’t meant to be,” she said. “With his lifetime ev­ery disappointment that came along, he was very disappoint­ed.” 
Said daughter Linda Brown: “I know, even if my dad were here today, he would never re­flect on any of the wrongdoings, so to speak. ... There would be no bitterness, it would just be him being happy, and I believe he is.” 


Santo joined former Cubs teammates Ernie Banks, Fer­guson Jenkins and Williams in the Hall. That famed quar­tet did most everything at the Friendly Confines through the 1960s and early 1970s except bring a World Series to the ivy-covered ballpark. 
“With Ernie, myself and Fer­gie, those players he played with ... to hear this kind of news today that he’s inducted in the baseball Hall of Fame is really gratifying because so many times that we talked about it, it’s a place he wanted to be,” Williams said. 
Santo will be inducted into Cooperstown on July 22, along with any players elected by members of the Baseball Writ­ers’ Association of America on Jan. 9. Bernie Williams joins Jack Morris, Barry Larkin and others on that ballot. 


“This is a great day for base­ball and for Cubs fans every­where,” Commissioner Bud Selig said in a statement. “Ron was a staple of the Cubs’ expe­rience every single day for de­cades.” 
“I always admired Ron’s courage and loyalty, and I miss him very much,” he said. 
Jim Kaat Brooks Robinson was also part of the panel that voted on San­to. 
“I kept thinking that he would get in then, then, then and finally he got in, but it’s a little too late for him to be there,” he said. 
“He’s just a terrific guy, he’s baseball through and through, he’s done a lot for the game of baseball in his career, and he’s been though a lot of hard­ships physically and he was just a terrific player,” he said. “He certainly belongs in the Hall of Fame. A long time coming. No one knows 
was second with 10 votes,  “This is a great day for baseball and for Cubs  thehe   reason didn’t get  
Gil Hodges and Minnie Minoso each drew nine and Tony Oli­ fans everywhere. Ron was a staple of the Cubs’ experience every single day for decades.”  in when the writers were voting, but this process we have has  
va got eight on the 10-person  Bud Selig  been the fair­est, I think.”  
Golden  Era  Cubs commissioner  Santo is the  
ballot. Buzzie  15th  third  
Bavasi,  Ken  baseman  in  
Boyer,  Char- the Hall, in- 
lie  Finley,  cluding  three  
Allie  Reyn­ from the Ne- 
olds and Luis  gro  Leagues.  

Tiant each received under He was a career .277 hitter three votes. and hit at least 30 homers ev-
Santo never came close to ery season from 1964-67. election during his 15 times on “I think the happy ending the BBWAA ballot, peaking at was already there, though. He 43 percent — far short of the got his statue and this was a needed 75 percent in his last little icing on the cake,” son year of eligibility in 1998. Jeff Santo said. “It definite-
Santo had gotten closer in ly puts an end to the chapter previous elections by the Vet-there, that’s for sure, with the erans Committee. The panel Hall of Fame.” has been revamped several Santo made his debut at 20 times in the last decade, aimed with the Cubs in 1960 and at giving a better look at de-played his whole career with serving candidates. them until finishing with the 
Since his final swing in 1974, crosstown White Sox in 1974. Santo’s numbers on the field Like Banks, Santo never got never changed. The perception to play in a World Series. They of what he meant to the game came close in 1969, overtaken did, though. in the stretch by a New York 
“From the discussion yester-Mets team managed by Hodg­day, we kind of got in depth,” es, the former Brooklyn star Williams said. “We really, re-first baseman. ally talked about each indi-That year, Santo liked to vidual and some things were jump and click his heels after brought out, I imagine that wins. It was also the season wasn’t brought out last time, in a fateful picture was taken, so far as what he’d done for the showing Santo with on a bat on game of baseball, the $60 mil-his shoulder in the on-deck cir-lion he raised for (juvenile dia-cle at Shea Stadium as a black betes research), all the other cat scampered past. stuff we knew.” “The ‘69 team was so very, 
“This was the case of Ron very close, and the joy that they Santo. We talked about it, we had not only as players, but to had good discussions on it and the day he passed, and they’re it happened,” he said. still so very close,” Vicki Santo 
Hall of Fame third baseman said. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, December 6, 2011 
“We weren’t actually plan-
Twins 

ning on coming to the same 
continued from page 16 
in their collegiate careers, Kai­la said. 
“It’s really cool,” she said. “To be at college and do really well, it’s really nice, like all the hard work really paid off.” 
The sisters also combined to capture one more win Fri­day, as Jade ran the first school. It just happened to work out that we both wanted to come here,” Kaila said. 

While Kaila attributes her and her sister both ending up at Notre Dame to a happy co­incidence, Jade tells the story slightly differently. 
“The truth is, I didn’t want to go to school with [Kaila] and I was looking at a different school. Then I changed [to Notre Dame] last second. 
leg in Notre Dame’s win­ning 400-me­ “We weren’t actually planning on coming to the same school.  And she wait­ed two days after I signed  
ter relay team and Kaila ran the final por­tion of the  It just happened to work out that we both wanted to come here.”  and then she signed to come with me. She totally  
race. “I love [run­ning the relay  Kaila Barber freshman  followed me,” Jade said with a smile.  
with  Kaila],  However  it  
because  I  worked  out,  
know that if  the Irish are  
I open it, she  happy to have  

is going to close it, so I know both Barbers on their roster, as that she is going to do a good Kaila and Jade each bring im­job every time,” Jade said. “It’s mense talent to the track. amazing.” “Both [Kaila and Jade] were 
Notre Dame’s freshman Bar-prized recruits coming out of ber duo almost never was, the class of 2011, especially though, as the sisters nearly Kaila,” Irish assistant coach ended up at separate schools. Alan Turner said. “We knew that both of them were ex­tremely talented. As a coach, when I started working with them this fall, I realized that they had done some just out­standing stuff in high school with what I call a low track and field IQ. What you are seeing now is just the tip of the ice­berg with these two because they really don’t have strong sprint technique, their hurdle technique needs a lot of work 
— that’s an understatement to say a lot.” 
Despite the imperfections in the Barbers’ technique, Turner predicts successful futures for both sisters. 
“Once they finally put it all together and get it and get their technique together, both of those are All-Americans pretty easily,” he said. 
Although Kaila and Jade will both be chasing the All-Ameri­can distinction in their careers, the twins figure they will not lose any sisterly love over the competition. 
“We found out that even though we do the same sport, we have our own strengths and weaknesses,” Jade said. “So it doesn’t really matter if she beats me in one event because I know that I can always beat her in another one. So it’s more of a teamwork thing now.” 

Throughout their high school careers, the Barber sisters never once raced against each other. In Friday’s meet, that streak came to an end when Kaila and Jade each lined up for the 60-meter hurdles and 400-meter dash. Despite their occasional opposition within the lines of the track, the sib­lings remain very close off the track. 
“We are best friends, so (we are) as close as it comes,” Kaila said. 
Even their coaches find it easy to discern how close the sisters are. 
“When they are together at practice, they are both right next to each other at prac­tice,” Turner said. “They have both just been a pleasure to work with and they are easy to coach.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Hawaii 
continued from page 16 
train and then face the Univer­sity of Hawaii on Jan. 4. Schap­
pler said he is looking forward to the trip. 
“We’re just in the planning stages now,” Schappler said. “We’re going to fly out there. I haven’t been there before be­cause I was at the football game 
FENCING 

Kaull balances dual role as coach, competitor 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
As one of the top junior fencers in the country, James Kaull has a lot on his plate. Between school and fencing, the hours can be long and hard. Throw coaching into the mix, and you will catch a glimpse of the dedication and hard work that have made the Irish favorites to repeat a national championship. 
Without an assistant coach since the departure of Marek St­epien after last season, the Notre Dame epeeists have seen Kaull step into the role for the smallest group of fencers on the team. 
“A bunch of us were pretty dis­appointed to see [Stepien] go,” Kaull said. “We achieved some pretty fantastic individual results with him. No one was happy to see him go, but the show must go on.” 
While Irish head coach Janusz Bednarski leads the program, much of the nuanced and indi­vidual preparation for the epee­ists falls to Kaull. He now faces the challenge of playing the role of both teammate and coach. 
“It’s not something that comes naturally,” Kaull said. “It’s tough in an individual sport to tell peo­ple how to prepare for tourna­ments. It’s hard to turn the switch on and off between being a player and acting as a coach.  My biggest mistake during the beginning of the year was trying to coach too much.” 
His fellow epeeists have appre­ciated Kaull’s increased role. 
“James is definitely a leader,” sophomore Mike Rossi said. “He’s kind of assumed the responsi­bilities of our coach since Stepien left. He leads us in practice when we’re split up.” 
Kaull’s role has helped so­lidify a unique bond among the Irish epeeists, who include three freshmen in their group of seven. While most of the conditioning and footwork practice is conduct­ed as a team, individual drills and bouts are done within each respective discipline.  Without a coach for the time being, Rossi said that learning from each other becomes all the more im­portant. 
“Practicing against each other is a huge part of how we get bet­ter,” Rossi said. “especially when you’re going up against someone like James who’s one of the best in the country. He beats you most of the time.” 
The Irish epeeists’ impressive showing at the Penn State Open in November convinced Kaull that his teammates and charges are on the right track. With the Uni­versity set to hire an epee coach for the second semester, the fu­ture looks bright. 
“Even with all the challenges that we’ve faced this year — an in­flux of new freshmen, being with­out an epee coach and a number of players leaving to train for the Olympics — I feel that we’ve al­ready accomplished great things with the limited resources we have,” Kaull said. “We’re really excited for the rest of the season.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
ing full use of his time. 
“It’s definitely a challenge,” Schappler said. “When I was working for football, there were times I was working 40 hours a week. Now I’m working about 30 hours a week with swim­ming. It’s really just time man­agement, being able to switch between tasks without losing efficiency.” 
Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu  
last year. We’ve got some things planned, like catered meals and transportation and things like that.” 
Schappler said the key to bal­ancing his work for the team and his work for school is mak­


Thursday, December 6, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD 

JON REPINE 
EXPND 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, December 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
HOCKEY 

Conference conundrum 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
For something suffering a slow and painful death, the Central Collegiate Hockey As­sociation (CCHA) looks pretty healthy — in the rankings, at least. 
The CCHA currently boasts nine teams — Ohio State, Notre Dame, Western Michigan, Fer­ris State, Michigan State, Lake Superior State, Michigan, Northern Michigan and Mi­ami — in the top 25 of the US-CHO.com poll. The league also claimed the top two teams in the preseason polls. 
“Our conference is pretty good top to bottom,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “There’s not many weak links. There are eight teams in the league that could compete for the top spot, maybe more.” 
Surprise teams like Ferris State, Lake Superior State, Ohio State and Michigan State have added to the perceived strength of the CCHA. Pre­season No. 2 Miami, mean­while, has started to play better while perennial power­house Michigan has struggled. 
The conference also hous­es five of the top 10 schools in both the Ratings Percent­age Index (RPI) and PairWise rankings. The PairWise rank­ings are used to determine the field for the NCAA tourna­ment. 
“It may be the strongest this league has been in a long time,” Jackson said. “It may be the strongest conference in the country.” 
Because the league is home to many highly ranked teams, each school’s schedule is tough. Nine of the 12 toughest schedules hail from the CCHA, using the strength of schedule provided by the RPI. 
Notre Dame’s schedule is particularly tough. Of the top 15 in the USCHO.com poll, the Irish have played or will play 10 of those teams. Notre Dame 
see CCHA/page 12 


JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

Freshman right winger Peter Schneider, right, battles with a Western Michigan player during Notre Dame’s 3-2 win Nov. 15. Notre Dame and Western Michigan rank second and third, respectively, in the CCHA. 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Philosopher-’King’ garners inspiration from academia 
By MEGAN GOLDEN at the sound of his alarm at Studying a variety of mate-Notre Dame professor of one older than you that you Sports Writer 5:27 a.m., when he heads to rial, he said, will prepare him Anthropology Carolyn Nord-might, from a social status, 
the pool for his first workout for his future endeavors. strom has inspired Whitcomb think that they know better 
As a veteran presence on an of the day. He and his house-“I have a lot of different ca-to follow his interests, re-than you. She really encour-Irish roster loaded with fresh-mate, senior swimmer Kev-reer goals. I don’t like working gardless of the naysayers. ages you to trust what you, men, senior swimmer Jona-in Rahill, return from Rolfs that much. I would love to be “Professor Nordstrom has personally, believe. I think than Whitcomb takes pride in Aquatic Center and spend a king and a master of knowl-been the wisest and most that’s really cool and some-his leadership. The team poet time relaxing with a book edge,” he said. “I just think engaging professor I’ve had. thing that you don’t find very and entertainer is chasing his during breakfast. that it’s important to cover She totally and completely en-often from any professor.” dreams of becoming a master An avid reader of both Ed-lots of realms of academia, courages you to follow your Whitcomb, called “King” by of knowledge, while offering gar Allan Poe and Ernest and I try to do that as much passion and be confident in his teammates, said he de­his teammates a taste of his Hemingway, Whitcomb is as I can. I feel like, today, a lot what you’re doing,” he said. scends from a German noble, wisdom. double-majoring in English of jobs limit what you can do “That includes almost listen­
Whitcomb’s day begins and Anthropology. in terms of that aspect.” ing to no one else, even some-see WHITCOMB/page 12 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Twins dominate in first races 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Any college track and field program in the country would be thrilled to welcome a high­ly touted recruit with blazing speed and a long list of high school accomplishments. The Irish were lucky enough to get two from the same household. 
Freshmen Kaila and Jade Barber are only one meet into their college careers, but the twins are impressing coaches with their raw talent and are already turning in winning performances. 
In Friday’s season-opening meet, the Blue and Gold Invita­tional, Kaila took the top spot in the 60-meter hurdles, long jump and 400-meter hurdles, while Jade captured third in the 60-meter hurdles with a Big East qualifying time. The twin sisters are excited to ex­perience success immediately 
see TWINS/page 14 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Freshmen Jade Barber, left, and Kaila Barber, right, jump hurdles during the Blue and Gold Invitational on Dec. 2. 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Senior manager plays key role out of the pool 
By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
Though he doesn’t compete in the pool, senior manager Nick Schappler plays a vital role for the women’s swim­ming and diving team. 
Schappler performs a va­riety of duties, coordinating travel plans for the team and handling its equipment. 
“It’s a laundry list of things,” Schappler said. “I do every­thing like equipment, ticketing, hotel logistics, transportation, recruiting [and] compliance. I do our team meals. I do the expense reporting for the business office whenever we purchase anything and pretty much anything that the coach­es need.” 
The Bedford, N.H., native started out as one of 21 foot­ball managers, and through his excellent evaluations was given the job as swimming and diving manager in January. 
Schappler said his favorite part of being manager is inter­acting with the team. 
“I would say, first of all, the team dynamics and the rela­tionships I build with the girls and getting to see their suc­cess and being a part of that success — that’s probably my top enjoyment,” Schappler said. “Secondly, the travel, be­cause I get to go to all these universities whenever we have away meets and it’s really neat to get to see these colleges and travel to places I’ve never been before.” 
Schappler is currently in the planning stages of schedul­ing a 12-day trip to Hawaii for the team, where the Irish will 
see HAWAII/page 14 







