
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


A Time to Heal 
Students, staff gather to discuss how to foster a healing community for victims of sexual assault 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame community questioned what it takes to become a community of healing for victims of assault during “A Time to Heal” dinner Thursday. 
Paul Kollman, the acting ex­ecutive director of the Center for Social Concerns, said the healing process is messy, un­predictable and rarely linear. 
He said four simple terms can describe the healing pro­cess: surviving, remembering, voicing and waiting. 
Kollman said surviving was not something to be taken for granted because to survive a trauma like sexual assault is to be violated at the very core. He said it is often the end of the world that existed before the assault. 
“Sometimes surviving can be self-administered, sometimes not,” Kollman said. “What is supposed to have been the most loving, free and intimate of physical interaction becomes abusive, violent and un-free.” 
However, Kollman said the work of a healing community cannot focus on just surviving. 


see HEAL/page 4 


LAUREN FRITZ I The Observer 

Students at “A Time to Heal Dinner” listen to advice regarding how to become a healing  community for victims of sexual assault Thursday. 


People’s Choice Awards president offers life lessons 
By BROOKE KOVANDA 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame alumnus and president of the People’s Choice Awards shared tips and advice about making it in the pop cul­ture industry during a lecture Thursday. 
Fred Nelson highlighted 25 lessons he learned during his career and used examples from celebrities to prove his point in his lecture, “Popular Culture is Not an Oxymoron.” Nelson has previously worked at entertain­ment outlets such as “E! News,” “Time, “Esquire” and ABC’s “Who Wants To Be A Million­aire?” 
For example, Nelson said he learned how to “Fake It ‘Til You Make It” based on Ellen DeGe­neres’ 1995 acceptance speech for the People’s Choice Award’s favorite female performer in a new television series. 
He said DeGeneres seemed uncomfortable with accepting the award, but gave the speech anyway. Around the same time, he was the assistant publisher of “Marketing for Worth” maga­zine and knew little about per­sonal finance, and found inspi­ration in DeGeneres’ speech. 
“I thought, ‘You know what? I can fake it,’” he said. “And I did.” 
Nelson said he learned to 


see NELSON/page 4 




ND alumnus uses comics to promote change 
good, can make a difference.” 
While the costumes, masks and fights draw readers into the world of the comic, Rose­mann said these elements pale in comparison to the person underneath the powers and masks. 
“The powers and costumes are extensions rather than dis­guises,” he said. “It’s about the person under the costume, and these are the people readers continually identify with and the reasons they return to the comics over and over again.” 
Rosemann said Spider-man was an example of this connec­tion. The reader not only cares about the hero Spider-man, but the common man Peter Parker. 
“The costumes and names grab your attention, but you 
see MARVEL/page 4 

By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Marvel comic books editor and Notre Dame alumnus Bill Rosemann knows that with great power comes great re­sponsibility. 
“One person can change the world, and by the way, that per­son is you,” he said in a lecture at the Jordan Hall of Science on Thursday. 
Marvel employees have made it their responsibility since the 1960s not only to entertain their readers, but also to teach them an important message about overcoming personal struggles and making a positive change, Rosemann said. 
“It’s not about the costumes or the masks,” he said. “Our comics are about saying that one person with problems, choosing to use their gifts to do 



Artist opens exhibit at Saint Mary’s 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Local artist Janet Johnson discussed her icon exhibit on display at the Cushwa-Leigh­ton Library at Saint Mary’s on Thursday. 
The exhibit features por­traits of Christ and the saints painted in traditional icon style. 
Johnson, a former teacher of the year at the Elkhart Area Career Center and mentor to 27 award-winning students in the National Skills/USA design competition, said she turned to painting as a way of achiev­ing deeper spirituality and re­laxation. 
“I came to doing icons to give me a state of relaxation and meditation,” she said. “It gives me time for prayers and thoughtfulness. Growing up in a Catholic church, being sur­rounded by ornate imagery, going to Mass every day of the week … had a very big impact on my life.” 
Even though painting icons is a way to relax, it does have its difficulties. 
“Icons are very difficult be­cause they have to be perfect,” Lynn Edison, a fellow painter and friend of Johnson’s, said. 
Doni Hoevel, another friend, said the challenge of painting icons does not lie in the need to be creative. 
“Icons don’t require a lot of creativity — it’s basically 


see EXHIBIT/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Notre Dame history website launched page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Asian Allure page 10 u Women’s soccer in Big East tournament page 20 u Irish Insider 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING THIS WEEKEND? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 


Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Paolo Garcia  Jolynn Hoang  Gabe de Vela  Leon Zhou  Hoang Ho-Pham  Chase Riddle  
senior off campus  sophomore Ryan  junior Keenan  senior Stanford  sophomore Pasquerilla East  senior Keenan  
“Going to Asian Allure  “Performing in Asian Allure!”  “I want to get people Asian  “Going to Asian Allure.”  “Dancing in the best show of  “Watching all five SUB  
on Friday and Saturday nights at Washington  Allured.”  the year, Asian Allure!”  showings of Harry Potter 7.”  
Hall.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Town hopes to cash in on Wild West collection 
HARRISBURG (Pennsl­vania) — Desperate to rid itself of more than 8,000 Wild West-like artifacts and to climb out of a $300 mil­lion debt crisis, Harrisburg has allowed appraisers and auction houses into a stor­age space where the bits of Americana have been gath­ering dust for years. 
Nearly all of the artifacts were collected by former Mayor Stephen Reed, who dreamed of building a Wild West museum in Harrisburg that never materialized. The seven-term mayor left office last year. 
Reed began buying the ar­tifacts with tax dollars more than five years ago. Two city 

LOCAL WEATHER 
auctions of some of the arti­facts in 2007 and 2008 have netted $1.66 million. 
Harrisburg spokesman Robert Philbin said about nine companies have taken a recent look at the artifacts and gave the city hope some of the $8 million to $15 mil­lion Reed spent to buy them will be recouped. 
The city is looking for an appraiser and an auction service to help generate the most money for the cash-strapped city. Bids will be accepted until November 9. 
Man is given cash, snake after using ATM 
MADRID — A Spanish vi-man innocently attempted to take out cash out of an ATM, only to discover a snake slithering out of the cash-dispensing slot along with the money. 
The ATM’s security cam­era captured the wayward snake. The tape shows the snake —which got stuck in the ATM slot as it was poised to exit its nest of cash — peering out of the machine. Someone even tried to poke it with a stickThe snake, which looks to be at least a foot long, lashed out at the stick with its tongue. 
But in this animal tale, all ends well: The bank cus­tomer got his money, and the snake was freed by police, who took it in a box to an ani­mal shelter. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Today from 12 to 1 p.m. at the Geddes Coffee House, the Higgins Labor Studies Program will present a talk called “A Proud History: The United Auto Workers in South Bend.”  The speaker will be Joe Taylor, president of the UAW Local 5. Pizza and drinks will be provided. 
Today, there will be a col­loquim called “Generalized Additive Partial Linear Mod­els with High-Dimensional Covariates” from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center. The colloquium will be given by Hua Liang of the University of Rochester Medical Center and is spon­sored by the Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics. 
The film “Another Earth” will be shown tonight at 6:30 
p.m. and again at 9:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center. Following the film, there will be a dis­cussion with one of the film’s stars and Notre Dame alm­nus, William Mapother, class of 1987. Tickets are $3. 
There will be a talk called “Run From the Earthquake, Fall into the Abyss: A Léo­gane Paradox” on Monday at 6 p.m. in Room 104 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, The talk, which is sponsored by the Haiti Program and the Haiti Working Group, will be given by Professor Karen Richman of the Institute for Latino Studies, Anthropol­ogy Department and Kellog Institute for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Caitlin Housley  Andrew Owens  
Adam Llorens  Katie Heit  
Bridget Feeney  Vicky Johnson  
Graphics  Scene  
Marina Kozak  Troy Mathew  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Sarah O’Connor  Megan Kozak  


TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 











CORRECTIONS 
An article in the Nov. 2 edition of The Observer mis­represented which artists did ofrendas at the Día de los Muertos event. There were two ofrendas displayed at the event. The ofrenda of ladders covered in black feathers was designed by artist Ana Teresa Fernandez.  The other ofrenda of flowers and human skulls and bones was cre­ated by Kellogg Institute faculty and staff members. The 
Observer regrets this error. 
HIGH 59 LOW 45 




Alumnus launches ND website 



By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Small hobbies can grow into huge successes. In September, Notre Dame graduate Jeff Pa-one launched his self-developed website “Today in ND History.” 
What started out as a small hobby known only by his friends and family soon grew into a popular Notre Dame his­tory outlet. 
“When I started off, it was pretty much just my friends and family visiting the site,” Paone said.  “Now, by word of mouth, I have several hundred regular followers.” 
The site highlights famous athletes, influential individuals and memorable moments from Notre Dame history in a series of daily blog-style posts, Paone said. 
It also focuses on special events, like the Nov. 2 post commemorating the “Game of the Century” when the Fight­ing Irish defeated the heavily favored Ohio State Buckeyes in a1935 football game. 
While it may seem like an easy task to discuss special events in Notre Dame history, Paone said selecting what to write about can be tricky, especially on days when there are a variety of top­ics to choose from. 
“Sometimes, especially dur­ing the fall, there are multiple important events that all oc­curred on the same day,” he said. “I try to select the topics that are most interesting to me, but at the same time I try to get a variety of different topics as well.” 
Although he does have a long list of potential topics compiled, Paone said there are many top­ics he has not yet discovered. 
“So far, I have over 400 po­tential events,” Paone said. “But because it’s just me doing this, I have a limited pool of resources to draw from, and so I’m sure that there are topics that I sim­ply don’t know about yet.” 
An additional obstacle Paone faces is the issue of copyright­ed and trademarked material. The site, although highlighting Notre Dame history, is not offi­cially endorsed or sponsored by the University.  
“Not being endorsed by Notre Dame affects my opera­tion mostly in that I have to be careful about copyrighted and trademarked material when choosing what images I can show on the website,” Paone said.  “If I can find a YouTube video or something like that, I’ll use it because it’s already out in the public domain.” 
Despite having to run the site on his own and keep legal is­sues in check, Paone said his time commitment to maintain­ing “Today in ND History” is fairly modest. 
“I typically spend about an hour a day working on the site,” he said. “Right now, it’s really just a hobby of mine.” 
Paone said he hopes to con­tinue expanding the website and one day partner with the Notre Dame archives. 
“[I plan to do this] until I run out of events,” he said. 
Contact Dan Brombach at     dbrombach@nd.edu 



Professor examines blogging 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER The main goal of student News Writer blogging is to generate con­
versations before and dur-

Blogs are a positive me-ing class, he said. dium from which students Student blogs also allow can learn, Assistant Direc-him to easily address any tor of Graduate Studies in information students mis-Theology Todd Walatka said understand in the reading, in a workshop Thursday. Walatka said. 
The workshop, “Enhanc-“They’re reading and then ing Discussion Through formulating thoughts about 
Student Blogs,” highlight ­ed the pros, cons and logis­tics of stu­dent blog­ging. 
Wa latka said he in­troduced the idea of blogging to his Foun­dations of Th eology class last fall after reading about stu­dent blog­ging on … a blog. 
“I was trying to 

“I was trying to come up with some way to have students write regularly for the class, but in a way that was more effective than a common reflection paper,” 
Todd Walatka theology professor 
the text, so it’s not pas­sive learn­ing,” he said. “I think one of the main benefits is [the blog] is due 36 hours before class. I read every single [stu­dent blog] before class to see if they misunder­stood some­thing and ad­dress that in class. If one has a strong post, I can point it out.” 
Students also receive assignments 

come up with some way to through the blog. have students write regu-Freshman Arthur La­larly for the class, but in a ciak, a student in Walatka’s way that was more effective class, said every Tuesday than a common reflection they read from the Bible paper,” he said. and respond to a prompt in 200 to 400 words. 
“We format our posts on our Wordpress blog,” he said. “Then we write two comments on some of our group members’ blogs.” 
Walataka said he hopes the blog posts will teach students to write in a con­cise manner. 
“I hope they’ve improved their ability to engage [with] text and one another at a sophisticated [level], he said. “In the blog, they write 200 to 400 words, so it has to be to the point. I hope there are certain skills that they learn by blogging that carry on past the class.” 
Since its introduction to the Foundations of Theol­ogy class, the trend has spread. Other Theology courses now incorporate blogs into their course syl­labi and Walatka said he hopes the use of blogging in classes will continue to grow. 
“I hope something like this catches on,” he said. “Blogging happens to be a technology that positively supports the engagement of materials before class for the students and professor. It is effective in reaching these goals.” 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at       ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Heal 
continued from page 1 
Instead, the community must consider the process of remem­bering. 
“Of course being a healing com­munity means moving beyond surviving and to remembering,” Kollman said. 
He said this remembering is part of why surviving a sexual trauma is never really over. The memories are always there, just under the surface, Kollman said. 
“Memory is an ongoing edito­rial process, by which we bring aspects of our past into our pres­ent awareness,” he said. “It seems common that people who undergo sexual violence have involuntary moments of remembering what happened to them, so the ghost structures of previous damage haunts the imagination.” 
While Kollman stressed that re­membering is an important part of the healing process, as well is voicing what happened. 
“Healing almost invariably in­volves voicing, or telling what one has undergone,” he said. 
This process usually begins with the survivor as the first au­dience, through journaling or self-reflection, Kollman said. The second audience may be a peer or counselor. 
“We need peers, who by the grace of God had gifts for such welcoming listening,” he said. “Learning to be people … of a helpful sort, patient [and] non­judgmental …  learning to be those kinds of people is the work of a lifetime.” 
Lastly, Kollman discussed wait­ing and how healing takes time. 
“As communities composed of people who have suffered sexual violence, we need to learn to be patient with those whose healing is underway, but not as instant as we in our temptation might want.” 
Dr. Rita Donley, the associate director of the University Coun­seling Center, said trust is also a major component of a healing community. 
“[In a healing community], believe what you hear,” she said. “We don’t want to believe this could happen to us, our room­mates, our siblings, our friends. [Instead], we engage in blaming the victim, because we want to push that pain away.” 
Donley said often times victims themselves push their pain away by concealing their experience. 
“Often, people don’t come for­ward right away and they try their best to just shove it away and go back to being a student, athlete, anything they can to just shove it away,” she said. 
Yet the victim continues to question the experience with five questions. 
“What happened to me? How did this happen to me? Why did this happen to me? Why did I act the way I did and how will I act the next time I feel the way I feel?” she said. 
Sometimes victims enter into a state of self-blame, she said. 
“There is a reason people en­gage in self-blame,” she said. “When you are the victim of trau­ma, it is the ultimate experience of being out of control.” 
Donley said to become a true community of healing, members must suspend judgment by not labeling survivors of sexual trau­ma, being patient and being there to witness their support. 
She also said instead of ad­dressing self-destructive behavior as bad, students should express concern for their friend and reaf­firm that they stand behind them in their struggles. 
“I have been privileged as a psy­chologist to be at the beginning of a patient’s journey and many steps along the way,” she said. “While I see pain, I see amazing resilience, strength, courage, be­yond anything I have ever seen.” 

Contact Anna Boarini at  aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
X and Magneto in the “X-


Marvel 
Men” series illustrates an 
continued from page 1 

care about Spider-man be­cause you care about Peter Parker and his struggles, whether it be dealing with his boss or showing his feelings to Mary Jane,” he said. “Ev­ery Spider-intersection between com­merce and American social history. 
“Professor X enters the picture and assures [the characters] that their per­ceived curses are actually gifts they can use to save the world, while Magneto empha si z-es survival 

man story is a Peter Parker sto­ry.” B es i d es d e d ic at ­ “[The comic book industry has] never been just about art. Instead, it’s this glorious American collision of art,  over moral­ity for the m u t a n t s , ” R o se ma n n said. “Who do these  
ing itself to creating  commerce and history.”  two actually re p re s e n t ?  
au t h e n t ic  Think  Mar- 
and  iden­ tin  Luther  
t i f i a b l e characters, R o s e m a n n  Bill Rosemann editor  King, Jr, who advo-cated peace,  
said Marvel  Marvel Comics  and Malcolm  
also  em- X, who sup- 
bodies  the  ported  sur­ 
do m i n a nt  vival  over  

aspects of the comic books all.” industry and society itself. Rosemann also said the 
“The comic books indus-source material, or the so-try is many fields coming cial circumstances sur­together at once,” he said. rounding the comic, helps “It’s never been just about explain the lasting appeal art. Instead, it’s this glo-of comics. rious American collision Marvel’s latest endeavor, of art, commerce and his-“Ultimate Marvel,” plays tory.” on changing the traditional 
Rosemann said the di-circumstances of comics, chotomy between Professor and encourages readers to think beyond the usual comic book realm. 
In “Ultimate Spider-man,” Marvel takes the traditional Spider-man story line and changes its social context. 
“In the Ultimate Spider-Man, Peter Parker dies and Miles Morales, a half-black, half-Hispanic teen­ager becomes the new Spi-der-Man,” Rosemann said. “After launching the story, we received hate mail, [but there] can be a Spider-man that is not white. 
“While remaining true to the original characters, Marvel comics always re­flects what is going on in the world.” 
Rosemann said he en­courages Notre Dame stu­dents to respond to the con­stantly changing aspects in their world in a positive way. 
“Use your brains to do good,” Rosemann said. “Just as the characters con­front questions over and over again, we must also ask ourselves how to face the challenges unexpect­edly thrown at us in our personal lives and how to strike a balance between our personal and social re­sponsibilities.” 


Contact Aubrey Butts at          abutts@nd.edu 
Nelson 
continued from page 1 

“Razzle Dazzle ‘Em” from Ricky Martin and learned to “Be a Prodigy While You Can” from Neil Patrick Harris. 
The 25 lessons he pre­sented included advice he wishes he had heard as an undergraduate, he said. 
“Change your mind — switch careers, jobs, cit­ies,” he said. “You have every right to change your mind multiple times.” 
He also said persever­ance and the ability to adapt in any situation are two keys to achieving any goal in life. 
“If nothing else, think for yourself,” he said. “All that you’re learning now, ev­erything you’re going to do in your job, try to suck the marrow out of all the expe­riences.” 
The lecture was co-spon­sored by the Department of Film, Television and The­atre and the College of Arts and Letters. 


Contact Brooke Kovanda at bkovanda@nd.edu 





COURTNEY ECKERLE I The Observer 

Saint Mary’s senior Aly Payne views the icon exhibit in Cushwa-Leighton Library. The exhibit is open to the public through Dec. 22. 

Exhibit 
continued from page 1 
repetition from the icons in the past,” Hoevel said. “It’s very difficult to re­peat something so per­fect ly.” 
Johnson said a lot of time is spent on tech­nique because each icon is painted with 80 to 100 layers of paint. 
“Every brushstroke has a prayer,” she said. 
In her artist’s statement, Johnson said she takes a spiritual lesson away from each of her paintings. 
“Whether it is Mother and Child, Jesus or a saint, I have much to learn from [the icons],” she said in her statement. “With ev­ery brush stroke I am able to focus with a special intention for someone, a small prayer or mantra or a kind of divine obedience to be quiet in the presence of the image on which I am work i ng.” 
Johnson said she is not the only one who can learn from the icons. 
“By looking into the face of an icon, a relationship may develop and will as­sist others on their spiri­tual journey.” 


Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 




Economy poised for job gains in October 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Employers likely added only enough jobs in October to keep the unemploy­ment rate from rising, reflect­ing their cautious outlook in the sluggish economy. 
Economists predict employ­ers added a net total of 100,000 jobs last month, according to a survey by FactSet. That’s just enough to keep up with popula­tion growth. 
More than twice that number is needed to lower the unem­ployment rate, which is project­ed to stay at 9.1 percent for the fourth straight month. 
Many employers are hesitant to step up hiring until they see steady demand from consum­ers. 
Healthier consumer spending was the key reason the economy expanded at an annual pace of 
2.5 percent in the July-Septem­ber quarter, the best quarterly growth in a year. Growth in con­sumer spending tripled from the spring, despite renewed reces­sion fears and wide fluctuations in the stock market. 
But economists worry that the summer spending gains can’t be sustained. For one thing, Americans spent more in the third quarter even though they earned less. And they used their savings to make up the differ­ence. 
Without more jobs and higher wages, consumers are likely to pare spending in the months ahead. Consumer spending is important because it accounts for 70 percent of economic ac­tivity. 
The economy generated an av­erage of 96,000 jobs per month in the third quarter, the same as in the preceding three months. That’s down from 166,000 in the first three months of this year. 
A raft of data Thursday of­fered a mixed picture for the economy and hiring. 
The number of people apply­ing for unemployment benefits dropped below 400,000 for only the third time this year, the government said. Still, applica­tions would need to fall below 375,000 to signal sustained job gains. They haven’t been at that level since February. 
Services companies, which employ about 90 percent of the work force, hired more in Octo­ber after cutting jobs in the pre­vious month, according to a sur­vey by the Institute for Supply Management. Overall growth for the service sector was most­ly unchanged from September’s slow pace. 
Companies ordered more fac­tory goods in September for a third straight month. The gain occurred largely because busi­nesses spent more on industrial machinery, computers and soft­ware. It’s a sign that in the slug­gish economy, many companies are investing in equipment but not in new hires. 
Businesses are getting more out their existing work forces while paying less to employ them. Worker productivity rose in the July-September quarter by the most in a year and a half. At the same time, labor costs fell. 
Higher productivity is gener­ally a good thing. It can raise standards of living by enabling companies to pay workers more without raising their prices and increasing inflation. But without strong and sustained customer demand, companies are unlike­ly to hire. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Wednesday that growth is likely to be “frus­tratingly slow,” after the Fed sharply lowered its economic projections for the next two years. 


Cain struggles to overcome allegations controversy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON  — Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain struggled to overcome the storm of controversy from sex­ual harassment accusations on Thursday as the threat of a dam­aging written statement by one of his accusers and his own shifting explanations left his efforts and even his candidacy in doubt. 
“This will not deter me” in the race for the White House, Cain declared, repeatedly denying the allegations in interviews on con­servative media outlets. 
“Did you tell a woman she looked good?” radio host Sean Hannity asked. “That dress looks hot?” 
“Nope.” 
“Any flirtation that you can think of?” 
“Nope,” Cain said firmly. 
At the same time, he and aides tried to demonstrate a campaign returning to normalcy or even benefiting from the controversy. 
Cain, a career businessman, held private meetings in New York during the day, including one on foreign policy with former Secre­tary of State Henry Kissinger. 
And campaign spokesman J.D. Gordon said donors had sent in $1.2 million since news of the al­legations first surfaced, far above the customary amount for several days. 
In a personal note, Cain said his wife, Gloria, was “still 200 percent supportive of me in this whole race, 200 percent support­ive of me as her husband, because I haven’t done anything.” 
The furor erupted at a time when Cain had vaulted to the top of public opinion polls as a lead­ing conservative challenger to former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney for the Republican nomi­nation — adding spice to a race already as unpredictable as any in recent memory. 
Since it was reported late Sun­day that at least two women had complained about Cain when they worked at the National Res­taurant Association — and had received financial settlements 
— Cain has said consistently he never sexually harassed anyone. But his answers to other perti­nent questions have changed. In one instance, he first denied knowing of any settlements with former employees, then said he recalled one, explaining he had been aware of an “agreement” but not a “settlement.” 
On Wednesday, Cain said he be­lieved a political consultant on his 2004 Senate campaign who now is helping presidential rival Rick Perry had leaked the information. But he backed off on the day af­ter. “If he didn’t ask me about this and he was my general political consultant, then he didn’t do his job,” Cain said, referring to Curt Anderson. “I am almost certain that I did” tell him about an al­legation. 
Anderson denied leaking the information and said he first saw the accusations in the Polit­ico report that started the week’s events. 
Texas Gov. Perry, who fell in opinion polls as Cain rose, also repeated denials that his cam­paign had anything to do with the reports. He said on CNN, “This is over, it’s gone, it’s done with and I’m pressing on.” 
Media coverage continued. Po­litico, citing anonymous sources, reported that one of the women contended that Cain made a sex­ual overture to her and invited her to his hotel room during a National Restaurant Associa­tion event in the late 1990s. The report said the woman was livid and complained to a member of the group’s board later that night. 
The publication cited multiple sources, including an acquain­tance of the woman and a person who attended the restaurant as­sociation meeting at which the woman lodged her complaint. 
In a television interview on Thursday with Fox News Chan­nel, Mark Block, Cain’s chief of staff, first stood by his accusation that consultant Anderson first leaked details, then he reversed course. “Until we get all the facts, I’m just going to say we accept what Mr. Anderson said.” 
It was unclear when all the facts might emerge. 
Joel Bennett, an attorney for one of the women alleging sexual harassment, said he was seek­ing permission from the National Restaurant Association to re­lease a statement on her behalf. Under an agreement stemming from her accusation in 1999, the woman agreed not to speak pub­licly about the episode she said occurred when she worked for the trade group and Cain was its president. 
Asked whether he would like his former employer to agree to the request, Cain sidestepped. 
“That’s totally their decision,” he said on Hannity’s program. “I can’t ask them to do that because that would create a legal liability that I don’t want to be responsible for.” Sue Hensley, a spokeswoman for the restaurant group, said its lawyers were reviewing the draft statement and would respond on Friday. 
Cain specifically denied allega­tions by a third woman who told The Associated Press this week that she had considered filing a workplace complaint against him alleging aggressive and unwant­ed behavior, including a private invitation to his corporate apart­ment. 
He criticized a pollster who did work for the restaurant as­sociation when he worked there as politically hostile to him. The pollster, Chris Wilson, said in an interview with AP this week that he witnessed Cain making inap­propriate comments and gestures toward a different young woman who worked for the group. He said the event occurred at a din­ner in a hotel in Arlington, Va., in the late 1990s. 
Cain’s presidential rivals gen­erally steered clear of the contro­versy, preferring to let it play out without offering an opinion on the charges. 
“The voters won’t find surprises with me. My policy positions have been nothing if not consistent,” Rep. Michele Bachmann told Fox News while campaigning in Iowa on Thursday. “I’m not going to comment. It’s up to the voters.” 





Senate GOP blocks Obama infrastructure plan 
Associated Press publican representatives in With the demise of Thurs-transit systems. It also called oil exploration and drilling. Washington refuse to put some day’s measure, an announce-for a $10 billion bank to lever-Obama last week uncorked a 
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Re-of the workers hit hardest by ment could come as early age private and public capital “We Can’t Wait” initiative that publicans in the Senate Thurs-the economic downturn back as Friday on what’s the next for longer-term infrastructure relies on executive authority day dealt President Barack on the job rebuilding America,” piece of Obama’s jobs agenda projects. rather than legislation from Obama the third in a string of Obama said. “It’s time for Re-to break out for a stand-alone The measure would be fi-a bitterly divided Congress to defeats on his stimulus-style publicans in Congress to put vote. Democratic aides say the nanced by a 0.7 percent sur-help homeowners refinance jobs agenda, blocking a $60 country ahead of party and next measure would be legis-charge on income over $1 mil-“underwater” homes and give billion measure for building listen to the people they were lation to provide a $4,800 tax lion. borrowers relief from their stu­and repairing infrastructure elected to serve. It’s time for credit for hiring an unemployed After Obama’s full $447 bil-dent loans. like roads and rail lines. them to do their job and focus veteran and increasing the tax lion jobs bill was filibustered Meanwhile, House GOP lead-
Supporters of the failed mea-on Americans’ jobs.” credit for hiring a veteran with to death last month, the White ers are casting blame on the sure said it would have cre-After Republicans blocked a service-related disability to House immediately announced Senate for failing to act on 15 ated tens of thousands of con-Obama’s infrastructure plan, up to $9,600. it would seek votes on compo-“forgotten” jobs bills, including struction jobs and lifted the the president’s Democratic al-Republicans back the idea of nent pieces. That’s a way to a measure to repeal a law re­still-struggling economy. But lies immediately killed a com-the veterans hiring tax credit. exert political pressure on Re-quiring federal, state and many Republicans unanimously op-peting GOP infrastructure Thursday’s legislation would publicans sensitive about their local governments to withhold posed it for its tax surcharge plan that would have extended have provided an immedi-own jobs agenda, which so far 3 percent of their payments to on the wealthy and spending existing highway and transit ate $50 billion investment in has centered on relaxing regu-contractors until their taxes totals they said were too high. spending programs and paid roads, bridges, airports and lations and boosting offshore are paid. 
The 51-49 vote fell well short for the spending with a $40 bil­of the 60 votes required un-lion cut in unspent funding for der Senate procedures to start other domestic programs. The work on the bill. Every Repub-White House opposed the mea­lican opposed the president, sure over its spending cuts and as did Democrat Ben Nelson of provisions that would block re-Nebraska and former Democrat cent clean air rules and make Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., who it harder for the administration still aligns with the party. to issue new rules. 
Obama’s loss was anything Obama unveiled his $447 bil­but a surprise, but the White lion jobs plan in September and House and its Democratic al-has launched a campaign-style lies continue to press popular effort — featuring multiple ideas from Obama’s poll-tested rallies in states crucial to his jobs package in what Republi-re-election bid — to try to get cans say is nothing more than it passed. In votes last month, a bare-knuckle attempt to gain Republicans blocked the entire a political edge by invoking the $447 billion jobs package and mantra of jobs but doing little a subsequent attempt by Demo-to seek compromise. crats to pass a $35 billion piece 
“The truth is, Democrats are of it aimed at preventing layoffs more interested in building a of teachers and firefighters. campaign message than in re-Another political flash point building roads and bridges,” is the way Democrats have said Senate GOP Leader Mitch sought to pay for Obama’s jobs McConnell of Kentucky. “And measures — a surcharge on frankly, the American people income exceeding $1 million. deserve a lot better than that.” The idea enjoys wide backing 
Obama ripped Republicans in in opinion polls but is stoutly an unusually tough statement opposed by Republicans, who issued by the White House. say it would hit small business 
“The American people de-owners and therefore threaten serve to know why their Re-job growth.


  Associated Press last week after months of ne­gotiations between Greece and 
NEW YORK — The Dow Jones its international lenders. industrial average jumped 208 The Dow lost 573 points the points Thursday after Greece first two days of this week as scrapped a referendum on un-investors feared that Europe’s popular budget cuts and the plan to preserve its currency European Central Bank unex-union was in jeopardy. Mar­pectedly cut interest rates. It kets in the U.S. and Europe was the second straight day of have been highly sensitive to big gains in the stock market. headlines out of Europe as 
The European Central Bank leaders there try to avoid a surprised markets by cutting financial calamity. Investors its benchmark interest rate a have become fatigued as vari­quarter of a percentage point, ous efforts to resolve the situ-to 1.25 percent. The bank had ation seem to continually run increased its key rate twice into trouble. this year, but that was before “Today it looks like a deal Mario Draghi took over as in Europe is more likely and head of the bank this week. that’s making the market posi-The announcement sent stocks tive, but who knows what peo­higher as investors hoped that ple will think tomorrow,” said lowering borrowing costs Uri Landesman, president of would help prevent a recession Platinum Partners. in Europe. The Dow Jones industrial 
Buying intensified in the average gained 208.43 points, early afternoon after Greek or 1.8 percent, to 12,044.47. Prime Minister George Papan-The average closed above dreou abandoned his effort to 12,000 for only the third time put package of austerity mea-since the start of August. The sures to a public vote. A “no” Dow last closed above that vote could have caused chaos level on Friday. Even with the in the European financial sys-gain of 386 points over the last tem by leading to a messy de-two days, the Dow is still 1.5 fault on Greece’s debt. percent below where it closed 
Investors and other Euro-on Friday. pean nations were shocked by The S&P 500 rose 23.25, Papandreou’s announcement or 1.9 percent, to 1,261.15. Monday that he would call a The Nasdaq composite add-referendum on a financial res-ed 57.99, or 2.2 percent, to cue package worked out just 2,697.97. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, November 4, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Hanging up the one-piece 
Around this time one year ago, the questions began. 
“What are you doing next summer? Internship? Research project? I’m interning in Washington, D.C. to help pass immigration legislature. What about you?” 
As a sophomore, I laughed. Intern­ships were meant for the summer after junior year, I thought to myself. I was perfectly con­tent to return to my summer job of Melissa Flanagan three years as a lifeguard on Long News Writer Island. 

“Oh, you’re lifeguarding again? That will be … fun.” 
After I overheard a freshman brag­ging about the job she secured at J.P. Morgan, I soon realized the majority of Notre Dame students did not share my view of internships. But that did not faze me. I was not yet ready to give up my summers. At 19-years­old, I was still a teenager. I could not imagine being a “real person,” perhaps taking a train into New York City at 7 a.m. five days a week and only seeing the sun and ocean on weekends. 
No, I was definitely not ready for that. So I called the director of the pool I had worked at, told him I was returning for another summer and dug out my old one-piece bathing suits. In May, as my classmates left for the daily grind of working life in cities all over the globe, I headed home to Long Island. And I had a blast. 
I spent my workdays in the sun, guarding a pool where parents gener­ally enrolled their children in weekly swimming lessons from the ages of 3 to 8. Needless to say, we did not have a single save in the four years I worked there. I spent every one of my off days, and usually parts of my workdays, at the beach. What I lost in professional experience, I more than made up for in tan. 
Unfortunately, I’m now a junior. It’s time to hang up the one-piece. 
My old mantra of “I’ll get an intern­ship the summer before senior year” has been haunting me ever since I returned to South Bend. Although I have certainly tried, I can no longer justify spending my summer days playing games of “All Fishies Under” in the deep end and making string bracelets with 12-year-olds. 
The idea of an internship does not particularly frighten me. But the end of my summers? The end of the lazy days spent relaxing in the sun, and swimming in the pool and ocean? That is utterly terrifying. I have only one reassuring factor that is keep­ing me from hyperventilating when I think about the coming summer. Although I am applying to internships in different areas, I refuse to con­cede on one criterion — the location must be within an hour’s drive of the ocean. Nine months in a landlocked state is far too long already, and I don’t think I could handle another three. 
Maybe I’ll even bring the one-piece along for old time’s sake. 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Making South Bend a community 
One of the best things about Notre Dame is that everything a lifestyle. For a University that strives for a family-like com-student could possibly need is on campus. But it is also one of munity, Notre Dame students can’t seem to extend the same the worst because it separates us from the city that is our home compassion and camaraderie to South Bend residents. And for 
— South Bend. the amount of complaints we have about Notre Dame being a 
The tension between Notre Dame students and South Bend disconnected bubble, Notre Dame students rarely attempt to residents isn’t new. The Community/Campus Ad-
burst it. visory Coalition (CCAC) met recently in downtown Both students and residents have legitimate South Bend, bringing representatives from Notre concerns, and a lot can be done to alleviate these Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross College to-two problems if we work together. The solution lies gether with city, county and police officials. Some in long-term relationship building. residents of South Bend expressed their frustra-The University currently has a few initiatives 
tion at having Notre Dame students disturbing their neighborhoods. Paired with the recent upswing in off-campus crime, it is worth asking what can be done to resolve the tension. 
We know that the community we live in isn’t perfect, but neither are we. 
Students lead different lifestyles than families. Families develop strong ties within their neighborhoods; they react defensively to Notre Dame students in South Bend because that is where their children learn to walk, ride bikes and eventually drive their own cars. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame students flit from dorm to apart­ment to house, do their best to make ends meet, are most active on weekend nights and have had poor relationships with law enforcement in the past. How can a community reconcile these two demographics? 
Let’s start with identifying the biggest problems. 
A major concern for Notre Dame students is off-campus safety. At the CCAC meeting, student body president Pat Mc­Cormick broached the subject of off-campus safety with the coalition members. Everyone agreed that more needed to be done to keep students safe off campus. 
Just a week ago, a burglar stole several laptops, iPods, game stations and cash from a student home on N. St. Peter St. What is even more alarming, though, is that the burglar also drove away with a resident’s black SUV. This robbery marked the sixth targeting student residences in only four months. 
The result of this? Students avoid South Bend and rely heav­ily on campus resources. Having a Starbucks, a Burger King and even a FedEx Office within one building certainly makes life easier, but what we gain in convenience we lose in com­munity. Remember when a trip to your hometown grocery store included catching up with your second-grade teacher, or making conversation in the produce aisle? We patronize imported franchises while independent businesses struggle in South Bend. 
Meanwhile, South Bend residents notice a trend in students overtaking and disrespecting a neighborhood during the year. The parties, noise and short-term residency clash with a family 
that work on facilitating relationships between off campus students and their neighbors. The Off-Campus Council distributes a leaflet called the “Good Neighbor Guide,” which seeks to educate students on how to mitigate risk of conflict in their adopted neighborhoods. CommUniversity Day, which takes place each spring, also allows Notre Dame students to volunteer for a day in the South Bend community. 
These initiatives, while commendable, are too few and far between to foster long-lasting relationships between residents of South Bend and the Notre Dame community. Integrating two communities doesn’t happen overnight; it’s a day-by-day process. 
To students who live off campus: knock on your neighbor’s door and say hello. The same can be said to South Bend resi­dents. A good relationship with your neighbor means that you look out for one another. A nonexistent relationship indicates a lack of interest and conscientiousness. 
Yes, it will be awkward. Yes, you may feel uncomfortable. But going on your first interview is going to be the same way — scary, stilted, but in the end rewarding. 
To the residents: not all of us are disrespectful party-goers who make excessive noise every night of the week. We may be young, but we are willing to learn — that is why we came here in the first place. Some of us are also a long way from home, and would love even just a friendly smile or wave that would make us feel like we belong. 
Only a few individuals are committing the crimes against South Bend’s residencies. These people are not representative of the South Bend community as a whole. Many of the com­munity members at the CCAC meeting were right in saying that students must be more vigilant, aware of their surroundings and exercise caution off-campus, but responsibility is shared between the community of South Bend and those students who choose to make South Bend their community. 
Our neighbors think that students ruin a neighborhood’s his­tory and character instead of building, enhancing and adding to it. Let’s prove them wrong. Go to that house next door, ring the doorbell and say hello. Who knows, maybe your neighbors will surprise you. We guarantee you’ll surprise them. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


WEEKLY POLL 
WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 

How do you think students can be more involved in South Bend’s community? 
Volunteer Shop downtown Go to town events Work part time 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Sunday 
ndscmobserver.com 



Friday, November 4, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Obama to GOP: ‘Show me YOUR jobs’ 
The actual start of the presidential elec­tion season begins today — exactly one year from now countdowns to the week­end before the 2012 election. While GOP presidential hopefuls have campaigned for months to replace President Obama, Gary Caruso the president just recently shifted Capitol Comments from governing mode into campaign mode while promot­ing his new jobs initiatives. In just 366 days, both campaigns will more than likely begin a grueling all-day, all-night final mara­thon effort to climax their campaigns in the critical swing states. Most importantly, one political camp will probably know the election’s outcome a few days early based on their sophisticated internal polling that deciphers political trends. 
On this day in 2008, the Obama cam­paign knew it had won over GOP nominee John McCain. On this day in 1980, Ronald Reagan’s landslide victory over incumbent President Jimmy Carter was unknown because they had only debated once that week. However, that weekend polling revealed that Reagan was trending up and by Monday before the election, both Carter and Reagan knew the election’s outcome. On this day in 1984, Reagan embarked upon his whistle-stop marathon train ride through Ohio to solidify a pivotal piece of his winning electoral strategy. Chances are that one year from today both sides will know which campaign’s efforts were successful. 

While each election’s dynamics vary, the path for President Obama mirrors Harry Truman’s 1948 run against the “Do nothing” Congress. Rightfully so, Obama can pound against an obstructionist GOP by emphasiz­ing programs to keep police on the streets, teachers in the classrooms and increase construction and manufacturing jobs for infrastructure projects. He can pointedly note that his tax proposal only affects about 350,000 of the wealthiest Americans and only averages about $350 per initiative. Those powerful compelling arguments, when offered succinctly, counter the GOP stand against all tax increases. However, Obama needs to also eliminate a major GOP claim that overregulation stifles job creation. 
Two-time Pulitzer Prize winner and acclaimed historian Arthur Schlesinger, a member of President John F. Kennedy’s administration who also extensively studied President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s White House tenure, noted that politics is a learn­ing profession. Schlesinger saw life as a walk through history, and if alive today might be appalled at our disregard of the similarities between today’s economic conditions and FDR’s struggle to invest in infrastructure projects to overcome the Great Depres­sion. The GOP in the 1930s — like today 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Men of ND Calendar 
Dear Notre Dame students, 

The finest ladies on campus are resurrecting the illustrious Men of ND Calendar for 2012-13 AND WE WANT YOU! We need the best, brightest, most interesting men across campus to grace the pages (and if you’re lucky the cover) of the hottest commodity to hit the Irish merchandise market next year. As part of our massive recruitment process we need YOU to nominate your classmates (and yourselves if you’re male) for the interview process! Ladies, don’t be shy — nominate your favorite guy friends as well. 
This a charitable event! The project is co-sponsored by MAV (Men Against Violence), and all the proceeds of the calendar will be donated to the SOS Rape Crisis Center. 
We’re looking for men with accomplishments in service, academics, athletics, student government or any other endeavors who aren’t camera shy. No prior modeling experi­ence is required. 
Nominate as many men as you want — the more the merrier! Only freshmen, sopho­mores and juniors need apply, as the calendar will not be released until the fall of 2012. 
Search “Farley Hall’s Men of ND Calendar” on Facebook or dig through those emails from your hall president for more information. 
May the best men win. 

Kelsie Corriston and Wendy Hatch 
sophomores Farley Hall Nov. 2 

My Asian home at ND 
With Asian Allure this Friday, Nov. 4, and Saturday, Nov. 5, I know the chaos of Asian Allure is coming down on everyone participating in the annual cultural show. Even with all the craziness this past week, I couldn’t be happier being a part of Asian Allure 2011: Timeless. Coming from a town where Asian diversity is rare, I always grew up as “the Asian.” It never bothered me because I didn’t think my “Asian-ness” was such a big deal. Sure, my family had many Filipino traditions, but I sparingly invited my friends over for Filipino dinner. I wasn’t ashamed of being Filipino, I just didn’t think my Filipino ways were interesting enough to fully share with everyone. 
Coming to Notre Dame, my first weeks freshman year were a blur, but one unforgetta­ble memory of those couple of weeks was meeting so many Asians. I wasn’t used to being surrounded by so many people my age who didn’t think eating a large roasted pig (called lechon) was weird or who understood all the little Filipino phrases that my parents con­tinuously spoke at home. Now, one year later, I call my Asian friends my second family, full of “ate’s” (big sisters) and “kuya’s” (big brothers) and “ading’s” (little sister/brother). 
That is why I love contributing to Asian Allure. The Asian community has given me so much this past year, and I don’t know where I would be without my large ND Asian family. Everyone has worked so hard putting together this year’s show, Timeless, and I could not be more proud of them. To our director, “Kuya” Mike: From late nights at LaFun to your constant running all over the place, thank you so much for your leadership. I know this is cliché to say, but this show would not “timeless” without you. To everyone else (from performers to backstage crew to managing to choreographers, etc.): We have a great thing going on here. I know it’s been a long road, but the end result is fantastic. Now let’s all break a leg (but not literally)! 
Trixie Amorado 
sophomore Badin Hall Nov. 3 

—
 claimed the deficit was too large, govern­ment too big, taxes too high, regulation too overbearing while opposing governmental spending as a means to put people back to work. In reality, governmental spending for World War II, not typical free-market policies, eventually pulled our economy out of the Depression while FDR won 46 of 48 states in 1936. 

With those historical lessons tucked into our back pockets, fast forward into today’s uber-partisan political climate with our 24-7 news cycle. Entering his third year in office, Obama — just like FDR — faced growing dissatisfaction for how slowly the economy was rebounding. Obama — just like FDR 

—
 is fighting against today’s equivalent of Herbert Hoover’s “cut government, cut the deficit” supporters. Today, Obama simply must acknowledge that politics and his administration are indeed learning profes­sions, then discredit a major GOP one-note mantra, “Cut government regulation.” 


Obama should emphasize just how badly the prior administration’s deregulation policy damaged our economy. Voters cannot visualize how the stimulus policies kept our economy from diving over a cliff. Voters only remember the promises that bailouts and stimulus programs would reduce unemploy­ment below 8 percent. Make the American public imagine just how badly our economy was wrecked by deregulation if after three years of extraordinary efforts our economy is still struggling to barely chug along. Then announce a 6-month postponement of federal reporting procedures for businesses that do not have a history of recent violations and a moratorium on federal regulations that do not affect fairness, safety or health. 
Voters will not visualize a fight over regulations. They only understand that some regulations are necessary but others can sometimes be burdensome. Obama can establish his playing field while defining his terms of the rhetoric. Then the president can turn to the GOP and say, “You have half a year to show me your jobs. I have always been open to GOP policies that stimulate the economy. If we see job growth, as you so vociferously claim, I’ll continue this morato­rium. I’ll even go one further. I’ll work with you to permanently change regulations that do not affect fairness, safety or health. So, show me your jobs!” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Date to the Dillon dance? 
Hello ladies. Look at your man, now back to this, now back to your man, now back to this. Sadly, he isn’t handsome and charming like the men I am speaking for (unless he lives in Dillon, in which case you are a lucky lady indeed). But for all you ladies who do not have the great fortune of having a Dillon man, I bring good news. Dillon Hall will be having a dance next Friday night, Nov. 11, and you and a friend are invited to the greatest night of your lives. Two men are seeking dates. One is tall dark and handsome, and really, really ridiculously good looking (in fact, you might even say male model caliber). The other is not so tall, not so dark, but does he get the fire started both on and off the dance floor. Ladies, if you and a friend are interested in having one of the most epic Friday nights of your semester, nay, your college career, then email sfitzge@nd.edu. You will not be disappointed. 
Sean Fitzgerald and Brian Scope 
sophomores Dillon Hall Nov. 3 
Photography 
issues noted 

In response to “Lauren Studios under fire” (Nov. 1), as not only the Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Yearbook, but a fellow senior, I understand the concerns voiced in Matt Jensen’s letter, and I hope that I may have the opportunity to make a few clarifications and clear up any issues that have arisen. 
While it may seem unfair to charge a sitting fee, it is common practice to do so, especially when there is no charge for the yearbook itself. One would be hard-pressed to find a studio that does not charge a sitting fee for this type of portrait, let alone one that charges the reasonable rates set by Lauren Studios. The sitting fee also includes retouching of the yearbook pose. While I also agree that the prices of the photos are rather high, they are on par with the prices set by other studios. Unfortunately, this cost is in the nature of professional photog­raphy studios. 
I myself waited nearly an hour past my scheduled appointment time and then felt very rushed during my session for fear of being late to class. Apparently more students than anticipated elected to make wardrobe changes during the longer sittings, putting the photographers behind schedule. This scheduling issue, as well as the other issues raised, will be addressed directly with the president of Lauren Studios when I meet with him later in the month, and he has already promised to address the problems. We regret that students were incon­venienced. 
Concerning proofs. No student will be charged for unreturned proofs. It has been brought to my attention that the section of the brochure stating the fee was meant to be eliminated, but this correction was not made. 
Notre Dame has had a relationship with Lauren Studios for 35 years, and it is my understanding that the administration of the company has a history of accommodating to the needs of Notre Dame students, and I expect that this will continue. I openly invite any student who has further concerns to contact me directly at dome@nd.edu. 
Caitlin Kinser 
senior off-campus Nov. 3 



By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
Lions, pandas and Pokémon, oh my! This Friday and Saturday get a taste of Asian culture with the annual Asian Al­lure show. 
Asian Allure is the biggest Asian cul­tural event of the year at Notre Dame, featuring modern and traditional perfor­mances from the various Asian cultural clubs on campus, Pfresh and members of the Asian and Asian American communi­ties. It is presented by the Asian Ameri­can Association and co-sponsored by the Asian Pacific Alumni, the International Student Services and Activities and the Center for Latino Spirituality and Culture. 
This year’s theme is “Timeless” and focuses on how far the Asian community at Notre Dame has come. Junior Michael Mercurio spearheaded an oral history project on Asians and Asian Americans at Notre Dame this past summer with a team of student volunteers who inter­viewed ND alumni all across the globe. This year’s skits were inspired by their stories. 
New to the program this year is an ex­hibit on the history of Asians and Asian Americans at Notre Dame, which will be open for viewing before and after the show at Washington Hall. 
Each of the clubs participating will con­tribute diverse performances from coun­tries all over Asia and each has a unique vision for this year’s acts. 

The Vietnamese Student Association (VSA) will perform both a traditional dance and a Lion dance. Junior choreog­rapher Theresa Lai said the traditional dance showcases the Vietnamese culture and heritage through both visual props and song. 
“The song lyrics are about the timeless love of a man and woman who are from North and South Vietnam, wishing their countries were united,” Lai said. 
The Lion Dance is an important part of Vietnamese celebrations, said junior Eric Diep, another choreographer. 
“We chose it because people just love to see it. It relates the show’s theme because the Lion Dance never gets old. It’s good ev­ery year,” Diep said. 
A Pokémon skit represents the spirit of Japan Club. Club members said Pokémon serves as one of the most timeless anima­tions/games for our generation because it focuses on the timeless themes of fun and friendship. 
K-Pop, a division of the Korean Student Association, has always been about show­casing modernity within Korean culture. K-Pop choreographers senior Julia Ro and junior Carrie Ko said Korean pop music fuses timeless Korean style with newer Western flair and always promises fun and a great performance. 
Asians, Asian Americas and many other cultures are represented in hip-hop group Project Fresh. Their set, called “Hip Hop Incorporated,” is a dance set in a fic­tional “hip-hop tower.” The set includes dances from different styles and eras, including classical, jazz and funk. Two of the choreographers, seniors Kevin Park and Amanda Costanzo, envision their piece as a show of timeless quality and evolution of expression through dance. 
The Chinese Culture Society (CCS) will call their piece Panda-monium, sopho­more Michael Dai said. 
“Our dance shows off the delicate charm of the fan paired with the unwav­ering defiance of the flag,” Dai said. “We hope to display the beauty of an ancient and timeless Chinese tradition and the wonders of the wrist.” 
The Indian Association of Notre Dame’s dance will exhibit three different timeless dances from three areas of India — Gar­ba from Gujarat, Bhangra from Punjab and Bollywood from modern Bollywood films. The country of India consists of 28 different states and 30 official languages. The common element tying each subcul­ture together is the tradition of celebra­tion and love for the Motherland. 
This year’s fashion show will have two parts — modern and traditional. Flour­ish Boutique will supply all the modern clothes and some of the traditional clothes. The traditional portion is about appreci­ating the traditional style of all Asian cul­tures as well as the styles of their modern day counterparts. This segment of the show particularly focuses on the theme of Timelessness, said senior Adrianne Tsen. The Filipino American Student Organiza­tion is performing Modern Tinikling, a contemporary take on the traditional folk dance, sophomore Chris Ayala said. 
“We chose this dance because it is one of the most timeless Filipino dances. Even with contemporary changes, the same traditional cultural richness is present,” Ayala said. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Asian Allure, “Timeless” Where: Washington Hall When: Friday, Nov. 4 at 7:30 p.m & Saturday, Nov. 5 at 4 p.m. How Much: $7 in advance, $10 at door 


By LAUREN CHVAL 
Scene Writer 
After I finished “Sorcerer’s Stone,” fully immersed in Harry’s world, I immediately began to seek out the second book. It proved a little harder than I imagined, because apparently every fifth grader in my school was on the waiting list at the library and my mother wanted to wait until Christ­mas to buy it for me. Christmas came early though, and the book was in my hands before any fifth grader had even reached chapter two. 
To me, the second adventure was just as magical as the first. It wasn’t like some bad movie sequel where the feeling you get the first time just isn’t there — everything I loved was back, and the new things J.K. Rowling introduced rang true to me as well. There was more danger this time, and a threat that Hogwarts would be closed — a possibility that disturbed my 8-year-old mind as much as it did Harry’s. 
But the biggest change between the first and the second books was the introduction of a new major charac­ter — little Ginny Weasley. The tale of how Ginny navigated that year would probably be even more interesting than Harry’s, as she was at the center of it all rather than circling the pe­rimeter, trying to solve the mystery. 

We rarely hear a thing from Ginny, though, because every time Harry is in the room she’s dropping things and turning bright red. Between that and her horrible singing valentine, it is easy to pity Ginny throughout “Cham­ber of Secrets.” I didn’t, though. 
I hated her. 

Considering Ginny would eventually become one of my — if not my abso­lute — favorite characters, it is odd that we got off to such a horrible start. 
I hated her for being shy and weak and I hated her nothing personality. She was related to Fred and George 
— how could she be so bland? Ron al­ways had funny one-liners, and even Percy had a big personality, even if it was somewhat unpleasant. How could this girl have come from the Weas­leys? 
Rowling’s other main female char­acter, Hermione, was quite the op­posite. She was bossy and obnoxious, always 10 steps ahead of the boys in every area. She was first in their class, brightest of her age but still not above taking chances with her two best friends. Hermione was a good ex­ample for girls. I wanted to be Herm­ione. 
But I was Ginny. It’s possible that I hated Ginny so much because she hit a little too close 
to home. I was also painfully shy and awkward around my peers. I, too, of­ten developed over-the-top crushes on boys who would never return them (do boys even return crushes at 8?). I realized — as Ginny told Tom Riddle that she feels overshadowed by her brothers and is terrified of the possi­bility that she’ll never live up to them 
— that I also had a brother problem. I was facing the probability that I would never live up to my brother, who was two years younger but twice as smart. Only in first grade, he was playing chess by himself while the other kids were eating paste. His teachers en­couraged my parents to let him skip a grade. If he was surpassing me in first grade when I was supposed to have a huge two-year head start, how were the rest of our lives going to go? 
So much as I fancied myself Herm­ione with my frizzy hair and messed up front teeth, the introduction of Ginny shot a lot of holes in that theory and pointed out my flaws quite glar­ingly. Harry Potter was supposed to be my escape. Harry was supposed to take me away from my problems, not shove them in front of me. 
I didn’t process all these feelings so neatly at 8. I just established in my mind that I hated Ginny and that was that. She had no self-esteem and nei­ther did I — she probably would have hated me too if given the chance. 
Twelve years later, I’ve gathered just enough maturity to see that Ginny’s journey through the books was proba­bly one of the most helpful aspects for me. We grew up together, Ginny and I. In a few years, she backed away from her family enough to make friends and go through a couple boyfriends. She developed the Fred-and-George sense of humor that I had always hoped she had in her. 
Ginny is independent and strong, and she might not have arrived at that point if Rowling hadn’t allowed her the grace of being a terrified 11-year­old. She emerged, sometime around the fourth book, a confident and mis­chievous young woman, but was all the more relatable because of where she came from. 
I still get awkward at times, al­though much less often now. It hap­pens the most around boys, who still sometimes don’t return my crushes. My brother is most definitely still smarter than me. Luckily, somewhere in high school, I emerged sarcastic and funny and smart (enough) in my own right. I don’t have Ginny to thank for it. But I do thank Rowling for gen­tly letting me know that everyone is allowed a little bit of a grace period. 
Contact Lauren Chval at lchval@nd.edu 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, November 4, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By PATRICK McMANUS ing moments in the film that 

By TROY MATHEW heist and the solutions they 
Scene Writer showcase Murphy and Stiller 
Scene Writer propose are too ridiculous. 
operating in their classic per-
Suspension of disbelief is one 
“Tower Heist,” a film that sonas, but those moments are 
“Tower Heist” tries to get thing, but this movie demands 
was supposed to be a funny hysterical. Matthew Brod-
laughs while creating a story the audience completely turn 
“Ocean’s 11,” had more po-erick and Michael Peña also 
in which the working-class off their brain. 
tential than any other recent turn in solid performances. 
underdogs triumph over the “Tower Heist” is pretty for-
comedy. Helmed by “Rush The sleeper comedy star is 
greedy Wall Street executive. mulaic in its approach to the 
Hour” director Brett Ratner Casey Affleck, who manages 
It fails. heist story — including the 
and featuring a star-studded to find the perfect tone to de-
The comedy centers around obligatory elevator shaft se­
cast, “Tower Heist” is the sto-liver the hilarity of a comedy 
the employees of a luxury, quence. However, unlike more 
ry of a group of luxury apart-movie and the intensity of an 
Central Park condominium, successful versions of the 
ment building employees who action flick. Gabourey Sidibe 
who are shocked to discover heist story, the team trying to 
lose their pensions in a Ponzi of “Precious” also stars. 
their swindling billionaire steal the fortune is not at all 
scheme orchestrated by one It isn’t a brilliant movie, 
boss (Alan Alda) has stolen convincing. They have rela­
of the building’s residents but “Tower Heist” is defi­
their pensions. Former build-tively few skills that qualify 
(Alan Alda). nitely entertaining and in the 
ing manager Josh Kovacs (Ben them for such a demanding 
Their plan to steal their end, a timely, well-acted and 
Stiller) and local thief Slide job. On top of that, they’re 
money back is very much a silly story is all the movie­
(Eddie Murphy) assemble a dumb. The most laughable ex-
story of our times, influenced going public really needs. 
group of rag-tag building em-ample of their behavior is that 
by the growing disparity 
ployees to steal their boss’ the group expects $20 million 
and animosity between the Contact Patrick McManus at 
hidden fortune. The group of to fit inside a safe the size of a 
haves and have-nots. “Tower pmcmanu1@nd.edu 
thieves endures numerous mini-fridge. 
Heist” provides the same sort 
mishaps in their quest to re-The film’s major charac­
of satisfaction “Inglourious 
trieve the stolen money. ters fail to inspire significant 
Basterds” does. Hitler wasn’t 
“Tower Heist” has pretenses laughs, and the film’s minor 
“Tower Heist” 
killed by American comman­
of timeliness, premiering at characters fail to inspire sig-
Universal Pictures
dos and the 99% aren’t break-
a point in history when cor-nificant sympathy. “Tower 
ing into penthouses and tak­
porate greed is under heavy Heist,” despite a star-studded 
ing back what’s theirs, but it 
scrutiny. However, the char-cast, is lacking in brains. The 
Starring: Ben Stiller, Eddie 
is nice to think about. 
acters inspire no sympathy. film, however, is not boring 
Murphy, Casey Affleck, Alan 
“Tower Heist” starts off 
Even Lester (Stephen Hender-and is worth seeing if you ap­
slow, but there are a lot of 
Alda 
son), the jolly doorman turned preciate less-than-mindless 
laughs to be had throughout. 
despondent suicide survivor, entertainment. 
Director: Brett Ratner
Ben Stiller’s performance 
lacks development and fails to 
seems more “Night at the 
inspire pity for the victims of Contact Troy Mathew at 
Museum” than “Zoolander” 
the Ponzi scheme. tmathew2@nd.edu 
but it’s offset by Eddie Mur-
The movie keeps it together 
phy, who is closer to “Beverly 
until the execution of the actu-
Hills Cop” than “Haunted 
al heist, at which point the plot 
Mansion.” 
falls to pieces. The challenges 
There are only a few fleet-
the characters face during the 





By KEVIN NOONAN emore so unique is that he brings a Hold Us,” shows off some of his bet-as not only an artist with a unique Scene Writer sense of social conscience to his mu-ter rapping skills while remaining style, but also with a unique message. sic. His song “Otherside,” which fea-fast-paced and upbeat. It has a catchy In 2009 he released “The Unplanned 
Things are about to get weird. tures an eerie sample of the Red Hot enough chorus to compete with any Mixtape.” He teamed up with Lewis to Maybe not weird, weird might be the Chili Peppers song of the same title, mainstream pop song. release the “VS. Redux” E.P. in 2010 wrong word. Let’s go with unique. shares his experience of losing a One of his odder songs, “And We and has continued to release singles Things are about to get unique, as friend to a codeine-cough syrup ad-Danced,” is a tongue-in-cheek dance-throughout 2011. student favorite, Irish-heritage fanatic diction, as well as his criticism of the pop song with a bit of self-deprecating and undoubtedly unique underground rap culture’s promotion of drugs to its humor. In the recently-released video, Contact Kevin Noonan at                               rapper Macklemore and his partner young and impressionable audience. he even dresses up as David Bowie’s knoonan2@nd.edu 
Ryan Lewis come to campus Saturday His critiques do not stop at drugs, “Ziggy Stardust.” at Legends. as he sings about the problem of out-Macklemore is currently experienc-
The Seattle-born rapper, formally of-control consumerism in his sin-ing something of a career comeback. named Sean Haggerty, may not ring gle “Wings.” Much like “Otherside,” He first released an EP in 2000 as bells with some students, but any-“Wings” blends powerful lyrics with Professor Macklemore to little suc­one who has walked around campus fantastic production. cess. But in 2005 he dropped the Pro-on game day mornings has probably Macklemore’s latest single, “Make fessor, and released his first official heard the rapper’s “Irish Celebration” the Money,” issues a critique on the full-length album, “The Language of blasting from a dorm room. This song, greed in the music business specifi-My World.” like many of Macklemore’s, was pro-cally, as well as society’s tendency to Haggerty then dropped off the mu­duced by Lewis. do things for the money in general. sical map until 2009. For four long 
Macklemore calls the Irish-influ-But as comfortable as Macklemore is years he wasted away in substance enced ballad a “drinking song,” and with rapping about substance abuse, abuse, ranging from OxyContin, alco­it certainly evokes a certain sense of death and greed, he is just as at ease hol and Percocet to even the codeine-Irish pride. However, he’s far from a in lighthearted songs. “Irish Celebra-cough syrup that claimed the life of typical rapper when it comes to sub-tion” is a fairly relaxed glorification of his friend. jects like substance abuse. Irish-American heritage. But by 2009 he had begun to clean 
One of the things that makes Mackl-Another of his recent singles, “Can’t up his act, leading to his resurgence 
On campus 
What: Macklemore with Ryan Lewis Where: Legends When: Saturday, Nov. 5 at 10 
p.m. How Much: Free Learn More: nd.edu/~sub 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Ending cheap shots 
One of the most highly dis­cussed matters in professional sports right now is player safety, and rightfully so. Perhaps in no two sports are you most likely to be at risk for head injury than football and hockey. 
The psy­chological effects inher­ited from these two sports can be devastating. One of Notre Dame’s own, Dave Duer­son, commit­ted suicide this past February. Duerson was a successful man who graduated with honors in economics from Notre Dame and became a high-quality business­man after 11 strong seasons in the NFL. But, as a Boston Univer­sity study of his brain determined after his death, he suffered from a neurodegenerative disease, likely from concussions. 
Duerson’s death hit close to home at Notre Dame. And while his death made waves around the NFL community, the NHL was also dealt a particularly hard blow in recent months. 
New York Rangers forward Derek Boogaard died in May, the cause of death ruled to be acci­dental from a mixture of alcohol and oxycodone. Two more passed away in August. Winnipeg Jets center Rick Rypien, who was known to be battling depression, committed suicide. Two weeks later, recently retired Wade Belak, who also had depres­sion, died in what has yet to be determined an accidental death or suicide. All three took on the “enforcer” role in their playing days, routinely getting into fights and engaging in skirmishes. 
How much the impact of their tough-guy roles played in their deaths is unknown. But it’s clear that the NHL is now taking greater action to prevent hits to the head. 
Former Detroit Red Wings star Brendan Shanahan was pro­moted to NHL vice president for player safety this offseason and is now the man chiefly in charge of ruling on suspensions. Shana­han has done a remarkable job in his new role, cracking down on violence in the game. Perhaps even better, when ruling on each suspension, Shanahan releases a video to explain to the fans what he saw and why he made the ruling that he did. The NFL could take note. 
That said, perhaps he’s gone to too much of an extreme, or at least too quickly. Only five play­ers in the entire league earned suspensions of five games or more in 2010-2011, with Trevor Gillies of the New York Islanders receiving a suspension of more than five games on two separate occasions. 

Ironically, Rypien was one of them, when he grabbed a Min­nesota Wild fan during a game. There was also an automatic 10­game suspension for Pittsburgh Penguins forward Eric Godard for leaving the bench area during an on-ice incident. That means only three players were awarded suspensions of five games or longer for actual hits on the ice throughout the entire season. 
It’s been one month into this season and there have already been seven such rulings. Most notable was Columbus Blue Jack­ets defenseman James Wisniews­ki’s suspension. Wisniewski, one of the biggest free-agent signings in the entire league this offsea­son with a 6-year, $33 million deal, received a 12-game suspen­sion. The suspension included eight regular season games for a late hit to the head of the Min­nesota Wild’s Cal Clutterbuck. He was fined more than $500,000. And no, I did not accidently add an extra ‘0’ to that number. 
The Wisniewski hit was dirty. Very dirty. Add the fact that he’s been suspended before and he should have received a stiff penalty. But, given the NHL’s leni­ency in recent years, to come out with an eight-game suspension and a fine that would make Mark Cuban cringe seems rough. Five or six games would have seemed appropriate. 
Now, as a Columbus fan, the suspension directly affected my team, as the Blue Jackets went 0-7-1 in Wisniewski’s absence (they are 2-2 and he has four points since his return), so there’s some bias. 
However, it’s not just Wisniews­ki, but the other six long suspen­sions as well, that are confusing. 
As mentioned, the NHL was too lenient in the past. Suspensions of one and two games should have been three or four. But now, it’s too far the other way. If they want to eventually reach sus­pensions of this length, fine, but make it a gradual change that’s fair and allows the players to adjust after years of light rulings. 
I commend the NHL and Sha­nahan for no longer tolerating cheap shots like before, especial­ly in light of the recent deaths. But they don’t need to go over-the-top, either. There’s a balance and they should try to find it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
NFL 

Giants to face NFL’s worst pass defense 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — With the lowest-rated pass defense in the NFL and one of the league’s top quarter­backs coming to town, it could be a busy Sunday for the New England Patriots’ secondary. 
New England (5-2) hosts the New York Giants (5-2) on Sunday and the Patriots know to expect a lot of pass­es from Eli Manning. 
Knowing the pass is com­ing hasn’t helped the Patri­ots defense so far. 
“In this game you have to find a weakness and right now, our weakness is our pass defense,” nose tackle Vince Wilfork said Thurs­day. “We understand that but a one-dimensional team shouldn’t be able to beat us.” 
New England is allow­ing 323 passing yards per game, the worst average in the league. The Patriots also rank last in total de­fense, allowing 424 yards. 
Considering what hap­pened last week in a loss at Pittsburgh and who New England faces this week, the Patriots’ defensive backs know they will be targeted. 
“It’s not a lack of focus or anything throughout the week. I think we prac­tice pretty hard and are a competitive group of guys. We’ve just got to execute better,” cornerback Kyle Ar­rington said. “We do a great job throughout the week of practice as far as our focus and our commitment goes. 
“We just have to bring it with us on Sundays.” 
Pittsburgh’s Ben Roethlis­berger threw 50 times last week against New England, completing 36 passes for 365 yards and two touchdowns in Sunday. 

Wilfork said New England’s defensive line can help the sec­ondary by strengthening the pass rush and shutting down the run, forcing Manning into longer and more difficult pass­es. 
“It works hand in hand. It’s not track where you can out and throw a shot put or run a 100-yard dash and win a med­al by yourself. You win togeth­er,” Wilfork said. “I don’t want none of our DBs to think that it’s their fault.” 
The defensive woes have 

a 25-17 win. “It’s not a lack of only Aaron Rod-only cost the Patriots two 
And that was focus or anything gers of Green games. New England’s of-without star throughout the Bay and New fense has been strong enough receiver Hines England’s own to compensate, but stalled the 
week. We’ve just got 
Ward, who sat Tom Brady in last two contests. After scoring 
to execute better.” 
out with an NFL quarter-30 or more points in the first ankle injury back ratings. five games, New England has 
Kyle Arrington 
and said this Manning has totaled just 37 in the last two. week that he Patriots cornerback completed al-That isn’t likely to be enough didn’t feel he most 65 percent against Manning unless the needed to push of his passes defense manages to shut him his recovery for 2,127 yards down. for the Patri-and 13 touch-“I wish there was a way we ots’ beleaguered secondary. downs with just five intercep-could just press a button or Cornerback Devin McCourty tions. And with running back something,” McCourty said. said he hadn’t heard Ward’s Ahmad Bradshaw’s status for “But it’s just hard work and I comments and didn’t con-Sunday uncertain because of a think time, putting the extra sider them relevant because broken bone in his foot, Man-effort into it, watching film to-the Patriots are done with ning could be throwing the gether — doing all that stuff I Pittsburgh for now. ball even more than usual on think will pay off for us.” 
“We really don’t worry about what everybody else says. We’re just trying to get bet­ter and we’re trying to do it as soon as possible,” McCourty said. “We’re going to have that urgency at practice to get bet­ter — trying to make sure it keeps coming over on Sundays, not just for a week, not for two weeks but that we can be con­sistent stringing each game to­gether.” 
Now the Patri­
ots have to try 
and stop Man­
ning, who trails 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Unemployed CS3 user wants help with web site. Marvin:
 574-233-0045 South Bend 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you 
love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Today, at a small group meeting, I was sitting with my friends talking, and randomly a guy runs by. Dressed as a dinosaur. In a church. My friends and I played Rock, Paper, Scissor to decide who got to post this story. MLIA 
Today, I sat down my best friend for an important talk. I said, “I have Metatasilphobia”. She then became teary-eyed, hugged me and said, “Are you going to make it?” I then said, “Daniela, It’s a fear of toes.” She then showed me her toes. MLIA Today, I won a game of scrabble by using the word ‘win.’ MLIA. 
Today, I typed in “unicorns are” into Google and Yahoo. Yahoo’s suggestion, “unicorns are cool,” while true, was not nearly as awesome as Google’s “Unicorns are weaponized ponies.” You win again Google! MLIA 
Today, I saw a llama running down the street. The llama was quickly followed by a teen yelling, “Wait Alex! Don’t go, I love you!” HisLIA 
Today, a guy stood up during my lecture, ripped his shirt off to reveal a Superman costume, yelled “What, a baby in a burning building??!” and ran out. MLIA. 
Today, I answered the phone, “Buddy the elf, whats your favorite color?” the person answers, “Blue” and hung up. Well played, random guy. Well played. MLIA 
Today, my professor was teaching the class how to draw family trees to trace genetic disorders. Who’s family tree did she use as an example? Sirius Black. MLIA Today my friend was telling me a story of a conversation that she had with her dad. She asked if she could go get her hair cut, and he said, “I don’t care what you do.” She proceeded with “I am going to go rob a bank now.” His response? “I will visit you in jail.” MLIA 
Today my brother (who is 9) told me he had the most amazing poem in the world and he wanted to sing it to me. It went ‘Roses are red, my name is Dave, this poem doesn’t make any sense, microwave.’ I have faith in him. MLIA. 

Seniors 
continued from page 20 
like to play at home.” 
In order to end the season on a high note, the Irish must first take down the Pirates (14-11, 5-4) on Saturday and the Scarlet Knights (8-19, 1-9) on Sunday. Brown said despite Seton Hall’s incon­sistencies this season, they will present a challenge for Notre Dame. In particular, she mentioned Pirates senior opposite side hitter Meghan Matusiak and freshman set­ter Shelbey Manthorpe. 
“We’ve both been incon­sistent — some really good matches, but then unchar­acteristically poor ones,” Brown said of the Irish and the Pirates. “They are a pret­ty talented team. They have a very good opposite side hit­ter and overall they’re pretty balanced in their attack. 
“They depend a little more on their outside and right side than their middle, so they’re not quite as balanced as what we have, but that’s one of the things they’ve been able to use. Also, their freshman setter does a good job of finding the hot hitter.” 
Through the ups and downs of the season, Brown said se­nior outside hitter Kristen Dealy has been a rock for her team. Still recovering from offseason surgery, Brown said Dealy is hitting her peak at the right moment. 


“[Dealy] has definitely helped stabilize the team,” Brown said. “Because of the shoulder, we knew she would get stronger as the season went on. She has seen more and more of her power com­ing back each match. She’s hitting shots we haven’t been used to seeing from her just in time for our last week­end.” 

Notre Dame’s match against Seton Hall begins at 2 p.m. Saturday. The Irish will play Rutgers on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
Irish and the Wildcats were tied with nine shots. In the sec­ond half, Notre Dame stood out offensively with seven shots to the Wildcats’ one, but was un­able to convert a goal. 
“We absolutely killed them in the second half, but un­
fortunately, the game is two halves,” Clark said. “We had re­ally one lapse defensively in that first pe­riod, it was I think their only serious shot and they put it in the net. That was their count­ing goal. I was 
“It’ll be a week from Da me’s Monday where we’ll have chances to sweat it out ... We’ll of getting have to light a candle at one of the 
coveted 48 
the Grotto, maybe a couple 
spots for the 
of candles at the Grotto.” 
NCAA tour­nament look 
Bobby Clark 
good for the Irish Coach Irish with 
very proud of the way the team played in the second half. We put on a good performance with everything except scoring a goal.” 
Villanova’s goalkeeper, John Fogarty, had six saves and its defenders presented a tough wall despite Notre Dame’s strong second half. 
“For the amount of [good] play we had, in the second half, we should have had more [goals],” Clark said. “To be fair, they defended well, they stuck to their guns, and their goalkeeper had a couple of good saves.” 
The Irish have two weeks of practice to prepare for a po­tential first round game of the NCAA tournament. 
“I think we’ll do a little bit tomorrow, give them the week­end, then we’ll work really hard next week,” Clark said. 
Now that they are out of 
the Big East 
tourna­
ment, Notre 
their No. 32 
ranking in 
the NCAA RPI, but nothing is guaranteed. 
“It’ll be a week from Mon­day where we’ll have to sweat it out,” Clark said. “We’ll have to light a candle at the grotto, maybe a couple of candles at the grotto.” 
The Irish will wait until Nov. 14 to find out if their season continues with an NCAA tour­nament berth. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish travel south to face in-state rival Purdue 
Observer Staff Report 
Coming off a convincing dual-meet victory over con­ference foe Pittsburgh, the Irish head to West Lafayette, Ind. on Friday to face in-state rival Purdue. 
In their meet against the Panthers (1-2) on Oct. 28, the Irish (3-1) won 13 of a pos­sible 16 events on their way to a 185-115 victory. Notre Dame freshmen earned sev­en of the first-place finishes. Emma Reaney led the rookies with victories in both the 200 breast and 200 individual medley. 
Purdue (1-0) defeated Mi­ami (Ohio) 175-117 on Oct. 21 in its only meet of the sea-


Lyons 
continued from page 15 
going as far as we can,” Bra­manti said. 
To beat undefeated Cavana­
ugh (6-0), Ly­ons will have to put points on the board, which it has done all sea­son, averag­ing just under 14 points per game. 
However, Bramanti said the Ly­onites will not only need to score, but also reach the end zone first in order 
“We want to go out offs, every there and take care of team goes 
in with a
our offense early so we 
clean slate,” 
don’t have to play catch 
Fahrenbach 
up at halftime ... It’s 
said.  
nice not to have to catch 
In addi­
up or gain the lead.” 
tion to the matchup of Christina Bramanti the Chaos de-
Lyons captain fense and Ly-
to avoid an uphill battle the rest of the game. 
“We want to go out there and take care of our offense early so we don’t have to play catch up at halftime,” Bramanti said. “It’s nice not to have to catch up or gain the lead.” 
Scoring against the Chaos will be difficult, as they have only allowed nine points all season.  Cavanaugh is hoping its shutdown defense and past experience in the playoffs will propel it to victory, senior cap­tain Maggie Fahrenbach said. 
“We have experience so hopefully that will help us,” son, taking first in 15 of 16 events. 
Notre Dame will look to avenge last season’s close loss to the Boilermakers. Purdue overtook the Irish 155-145 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Friday’s meet against the Boilermakers will begin at 5 p.m. 
Fahrenbach said. “But we don’t have a lot of experience late in the playoffs, so we are hoping to make it further.” 
While many view the Chaos as favorites in the playoffs because of their top seed, Fahrenbach said she doesn’t 
see it that 
way. 
“Because 
it is the play­
onite offense, 
the game’s 
result will 
also rest on the battle between two senior quarterbacks.  Kat Rodriguez has been Lyons’ main offen­sive threat all season, while Rebecca Cink has led Cava­naugh’s offensive production with 10 passing touchdowns this year. 
With the winner one step closer to playing in Notre Dame Stadium, Cavanaugh and Lyons will square off in the first round of the play­offs Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish find success during final fall competition 

By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame successfully opened up the final weekend of its fall schedule with a dual match victory over Minnesota on Thursday as part of the Go­pher Invitational on the Go­phers’ home court. 
Seniors Niall Fitzgerald and Sam Keeton, junior Blas Moros and sophomores Greg Andrews and Billy Pecor won matches for the Irish. Notre Dame won five of eight match­es, but Irish coach Bobby Bayl­iss believes with a little luck they could have won more. 
“Today was an overall great effort,” Bayliss said. “It is al­ways nice when you can win more matches than the other team. I think that if we had a little more luck we could have won possibly one or two more, so it was a very competitive day.” 
The Irish suffered a couple of injuries, as senior Casey Watt felt the effects of a lin­gering foot injury and junior Spencer Talmadge slightly pulled his groin during prac­tice. 
“[Watt and Talmadge] were hurting a little bit,” Bayliss said. “We are definitely hop­ing that they are minor inju­ries. The trainer will check them out and hopefully we will have them for the remain­der of the weekend.” 
Topping Minnesota was no small feat, as the Golden Go­phers finished last season ranked 23rd and Bayliss be­lieves they are destined for another Top-25 finish. 
“Minnesota is definitely a quality team,” Bayliss said. “They were very successful last season and they should continue on that [success] this season. Having four out of our top five beat four out of their top five was very impressive.” 
The Irish will continue play in the Gopher Invitational to­day against an unfamiliar foe, Nebraska. 
“It will be interesting to play Nebraska, as we have never played them before,” Bayliss said. “I know they are pret­ty good and made the NCAA tournament last year, so it should be another competitive day. I think we are all pretty excited.” 
The Irish will continue play in the Gopher Invitational in Minneapolis through Sunday. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Seniors advance in New York 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish ended the first day of the ITA National Indoor Cham­pionships with mixed results, as senior doubles partners Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews moved on to the semifinal round before Frilling was eliminated from the singles main draw in the round of 32. 
The Irish duo, the No. 3 seed in the women’s doubles draw, defeated the Georgia tandem of senior Chelsey Gullickson and sophomore Lilly Kimbell, 8-2. 
“We came out and played re­ally well,” Mathews said. “They won the first game but we went on to win the next six games. We really came out aggressive and I think it was really good that we stayed aggressive for the entire match. We played our game and kept our strategy and we ad­justed really well, so all around it was a really good match.” 
This is the second tournament for Gullickson and Kimbell as doubles partners. Despite their inexperience playing together, the Bulldogs still posed a for­midable threat; ninth-ranked Gullickson was the NCAA singles champion her sophomore year and competed in the 2010 U.S. Open as an amateur. 
“We knew a little bit about Gullickson from playing her be­fore and that kind of thing, and a couple of our teammates have played a different teammate from Georgia but we hadn’t, so they were unfamiliar to us,” Mathews said. “We went in and adjusted really well. We didn’t know much about one of the girls, but we did a good job adjusting and sticking to our game plan.” 
Frilling did not enjoy the same outcome in her match against freshman Zoe Scandalis of USC. Frilling dropped the first set 6-4, but fought Scandalis to a 3-3 tie in the second set before Scanda­lis took the next three games to win the match and move on to the round of 16. 
“[Kristy] battled really well against a great player from USC,” Mathews said. “[Scandalis] won their regional as a freshman, so she’s a great competitor and it was a really good match for both of them.” 
Frilling and Mathews will face Duke freshmen Ester Goldfeld and Beatrice Capra in their sec­ond match. 
“We were able to see a little of their match this morning against Oklahoma, but they’re pretty un­familiar to us,” Mathews said. “We’re going to keep playing our game and keep being aggressive and going for those volleys and sticking with our game plan no matter who we play.” 
While the opportunity to com­pete against some of the toughest competition in the country is ex­citing, Mathews said that playing at the site of the U.S. Open was also an experience in and of it­self. 
“It was awesome. Yesterday we … got to practice on the courts and the indoor facilities,” Mathew said. “We were able to get a tour of the courts and all the facilities here at the U.S. Open, which was a great experience, and then we went for the players and coaches banquet. Being on the courts and the facilities was just a great hon­or and experience.” 
Frilling and Mathews will play their quarterfinal match at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Flushing, N.Y. on Friday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Wildcats look to strike against Ducks, end streak 
Purple Weasels feel confident about facing the Whirlwind; Farley to depend on defense against Shamrocks 
By BRIAN HARTNETT Meanwhile, Howard (2-4) Welsh Fam vs. PW Sports Writer comes into the playoffs after an up-and-down season that By JONATHAN WARREN 
No. 2 seed Ryan will look culminated with a tight loss Sports Writer to ride the momentum from to No. 1 seed Cavanaugh. a dominant regular season, However, the Ducks possess Welsh Family and Pasque­while No. 7 seed Howard experience, with several rilla West, the No. 4 and No. will try to pull off the upset team members having won 5 seeds, will face off in what and move closer to a third two interhall champion-could be a close game Sun-straight championship in ships. day. Though Pasquerilla West a first-round playoff clash “We’ve been here before, is the lower seed, the team Sunday. so I don’t think that we’ll doesn’t think it’s an under-
Ryan (6-0) comes into the have the nerves that some dog. playoffs after an unprec-of the other teams have,” “We’re excited for the play­edentedly strong regular senior receiver and captain offs and we’re ready to keep season, in which the Wild-Jenny Gassner said. winning,” Pasquerilla West cats finished first in the To be successful, the senior captain and safety Ali-Gold Division and racked up Ducks will need a strong son Lindeen said. “I think it’s an incredible 115-point dif-performance from their of-expected that we’ll make it ferential. The Wildcats have fense, which was shut out into the second round. We’re achieved success largely three times this season. expecting to win that first through an explosive of-“It has been difficult to game.” fense that accounted for 190 score, but we’ve seen a lot Having been to the Sta-points in six games. of good offensive drives and dium for the championship 
Ryan senior captain and good completions in the last game the past two years, the ways a good team, especially humbling experience for us,” running back Brianna Cur-few games,” Gassner said. Purple Weasels (4-2) bring on offense,” Welsh Family Althoff said. “This has made tis said the team plans to “We just need to work on confidence and experience to senior captain and receiver us even hungrier for a play-stick to the plays that have playing with more intensity this year’s playoffs. Lindeen Charlotte Seasly said. “It will off win on Sunday. If we can worked for them all year. and giving a little more en-said the Purple Weasels have be a challenge to play them, come out focused and confi­
“We plan to keep doing ergy in our passing plays.” played enough teams to be so hopefully we bring the in-dent, I think we will have a what we’ve been doing,” Cur-Howard plans to counter prepared for whatever Welsh tensity.” good chance at winning.” tis said. “We will keep prac-the strong Ryan attack with Family brings. Seasly said the Whirlwind On the other side of the ball, ticing our plays and work on its stout defense, which has “We’re prepared to see a lot are hoping to limit their mis-McGlinn (4-2) is coming off a covering and pulling flags kept the team competitive of different things on offense takes and advance to the strong season in which the as efficiently as possible.” throughout the season. and defense,” Lindeen said. semifinals Shamrocks relied on an ex-
Regardless of the playoff “We have a lot of good, “Our defense has some things “We need to play mistake-plosive offense coupled with a outcome, Curtis said this strong players on defense it can adjust if Welsh Family free football on both sides strong defense to win games. year has been a great one and have been very success-shows certain schemes.” of the ball [to win Sunday],” Though McGlinn lost its final for the Wildcats, who did not ful in putting pressure on Lindeen said she thinks Seasly said. game of the season, senior even qualify for last year’s the quarterback with our junior quarterback Kirsten Seasly said the team’s road captain and quarterback Lau­playoffs. defensive line,” Gassner Danna will have a big game to the playoffs has made them ren Miller said the Shamrocks 
“We’re proud of ourselves said. Sunday. more prepared for Pasqueril-are carrying good momentum for working so hard during Ryan and Howard will face While the Purple Weasels la West. into the playoffs. the regular season,” Cur-off at 6 p.m. Sunday at La-will rely on some of their “We’ve definitely had some “Even though our last game tis said. “This team is a lot Bar Fields. big playmakers for success, ups and downs this season,” was a loss, we still improved more experienced, being led Welsh Family (4-2) is develop-Seasly said. “We’ve learned a lot over the course of the by mostly upperclassmen, Contact Brian Hartnett at ing a plan to stop them. from our wins and our loss-year,” Miller said. “We’ve and it shows.” bhartnet@nd.edu “[Pasquerilla West is] al-es, and I think it’s made us a been getting better as we’ve 
more well-rounded team go-been playing more and more. ing into the playoffs.” We’re very pleased with the 
The Whirlwind will look to way our season has gone so make adjustments on defense far.” in practice this week due to Miller said the key to the injuries. The defense will Shamrocks’ success has been look to the leadership of se-a consistent defensive unit nior lineman Erin Byrne, who that has carried the team in recorded the game-winning many close games. sack against Lyons last week, “The strength of our team to contain Pasquerilla West. has been our defensive play. 
The Whirlwind and Purple They’ve kept us in and helped Weasels will meet Sunday at 6 us win many games,” Miller 
p.m. at LaBar Fields. said. “It’s really a testament 
to our veteran leadership and Contact Jonathan Warren at the ability of our younger jwarren3@nd.edu players to pick up the system. 
We hope they can come out strong on Sunday.” McGlinn vs. Farley Farley and McGlinn face 
off Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar By NICK BOYLE fields with a semi-final place Sports Writer on the line. 
Quarterfinal play kicks off Contact Nick Boyle at Sunday when No. 3 seed Far-nboyle1@nd.edu ley takes on No. 6 seed McG­linn. 
Farley (5-1) is coming off a Cavanaugh vs. Lyons strong regular season where the Finest relied on a stiff de-By PETER STEINER fense and consistent offense Sports Writer to win games. 
Coming into the playoffs, Lyons overcame challenges the Finest will depend on a to qualify for the playoffs, but defense that only allowed 12 as the No. 8 seed, it now faces total points this season. its toughest test yet — a top­
“Defensively, we just have to seeded and undefeated Cava­keep up with what we’ve been naugh squad determined to doing all season,” senior cap-advance to the second round. tain and cornerback Analise Because the Lyonites (3-3) Althoff said. “We’re playing have not reached the postsea­with a lot of confidence and son in recent years, they were aggression right now. We go excited to make the playoffs, into games expecting to force freshman captain Christina three-and-outs and turn-Bramanti said. But the team overs.” isn’t satisfied with just get-
Althoff said this confidence ting there. will motivate the team Sunday “Since we have made it this when they take on McGlinn. far, we definitely want to keep 
“We only had one loss on the season, but it was a very see LYONS/page 13 



MEN’S INTERHALL 

Big Red and Juggerknotts face off as playoffs begin 
Otters look to defend championship, face Vermin; Knights to face Dawgs for first time this season 
By MIKE MONACO Senior linebacker Brett Leahy an that nearly knocked them out Sports Writer and junior athlete Ryan Robinson of the playoffs. Junior captain and will lead a well-balanced team running back Paul Babiak said 
A pair of teams riding two-into the first round. the emotional roller coaster could game winning streaks square off “Last year, our offense was all help his team. in the first round of the playoffs about passing, but this year we’ve “We were pretty down after when No. 4 Knott takes on No. 5 tried to include more of a running losing because we knew if we Dillon this Sunday. game to establish more balance,” had won we would definitely have 
The Juggerknotts (3-1) clinched Spinelli said.  “As for our defense, been in,” Babiak said. “Monday their first trip to the playoffs since it’s definitely a team strength. morning when the playoff brack­2009 last Sunday with a 13-0 win We’ve got some athletic guys who ets came out, we were pretty ec­over Morrissey. Heading into the really get after the ball.” static to get in. We knew there postseason, Knott realizes the in-Carroll (2-1-1) made the playoffs was still a chance but we all creased importance and intensity last fall, but lost in the first round. thought our season was over.” of each game, senior captain Dan The Vermin tied Sorin earlier this Last year, the two squads met Shaffer said. year, 14-14, but the Vermin real-in the first round of the playoffs 
“At this point there are no bad ize this game will likely be deter-with then-No.5 Siegfried defeat-teams,” Shaffer said. “So we need mined by which team executes ing then-No.4 Stanford, 28-3. to come out every single game as better. Stanford will try to flip the if it’s the championship so that we “We’ve seen them, and they’ve script on Siegfried at 1 p.m. Sun-hopefully do get to the champion-seen us, and really, it’s all about day at Riehle Fields. ship. sharpening our execution now,” 
“There’s a lot more hype and junior captain Keith Marrero Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu tension since the games mean a said. lot more [than in the regular sea-Carroll made the playoffs be-ning of the season, collaborating we can do that.” son]. The atmosphere is a lot dif-hind several new standouts, in-Keenan vs. Alumni and working together ...  We’re set Freshman quarterback Tyler ferent. It seems a lot more official cluding freshman receiver Greg on playing in the Stadium. Any-Barron and sophomore receiver and a lot more tense.” Florio, but the season’s success By BRENDAN BELL thing else is a failure.” Jeff Kraemer lead Alumni. Know-
Despite the differences be-has come due to team effort, Mar-Sports Writer The Knights will face an ing that Keenan’s strength is in tween the playoffs and the regu-rero said. unfamiliar opponent this the passing game, Dansdill plans lar season, the Juggerknotts plan “We relied pretty heavily on No. 2 Keenan will face No. 7 weekend in the Dawgs. on pressuring the quarterback. to stick with what earned them defense, and throughout the Alumni this weekend in a first-“We don’t know what to expect, “We’re going to come in ag­the No. 4 seed while correcting year, our defense has done round playoff game, as both as we haven’t seen or played gressive and put pressure on their recent fumbling trend. well adjusting to our differ-teams try to take the first step against them before,” Blackwood their quarterback,” Dansdill said. 
“Ball security is definitely a big ent opponents,” Marrero said. in reaching the championship at said. “We’ve just been working “Hopefully he will make some thing [for us],” Shaffer said. “That While Carroll’s results may not Notre Dame Stadium. hard at practice and picking up bad decisions.” will kill you [in the playoffs]. We indicate major flaws, the team For the Knights (4-0), the regu-the tempo in preparation.” The season is on the line this put the ball on the ground five or recognizes it must cut back on its lar season proved to be a success As the No. 7 seed, Alumni is weekend, as both teams hope the six times against Morrissey.” errors in fundamentals to have a led by junior quarterback Andrew looking to pull the upset this playoff push goes further than the 
While Knott clinched a playoff chance at winning the champion-McDonough and junior receiver weekend. The Dawgs have lost first round. spot in Sunday’s season finale, ship. Nate Carr. Preparing for Alumni two games this season, but their “Close doesn’t cut it in the play-Dillon (3-1) closed out its regular “We definitely have had issues (2-2), Keenan hopes to improve its record doesn’t indicate their offs,” Dansdill said. season on Oct . 9. The Big Red with mental mistakes,” Marrero cohesiveness as a team. quality of play so far, senior cap-Keenan and Alumni are set are aware of the challenges that said. “They haven’t proven ex-“Before our game against Stan-tain Dan Dansdill said. to play 2 p.m. Sunday at Riehle could arise from the long layoff, tremely costly yet, but nonethe-ford last week, we hadn’t played “We’ve been close, but no ci-Fields. but are not overly worried. less, we’d like to eliminate those in four weeks,” senior captain gar a lot this year,” Dansdill said. 
“[The layoff] will probably show entirely.” Erik Blackwood said. “We want to “We’re looking to pull it all to-Contact Brendan Bell at a little bit for the first few drives, Sorin and Carroll will meet for get back to playing like the begin-gether this weekend and I think bbell2@nd.edu but we’ve had a lot of practice and the second time this Sunday at we’ve scrimmaged a few times,” Riehle Fields at 1 p.m., but this junior captain Will Salvi said. “I time, the loser goes home. don’t think it will be too bad. We’ll be a little rusty [at first].” Contact James Southard at 
Dillon is familiar with playoff jsouthar@nd.edu football, having lost in the last year’s championship game to Sorin. Although they are the No. Siegfried vs. Stanford 5 seed, the Big Red feel they can still make a deep playoff run. By SCOTT FRANO 
“It doesn’t matter what seed Sports Writer you are,” Salvi said. “You need to be able to beat anyone if you In what seems on the surface want to win the championship. to be a mismatch, No. 1 Siegfried Our mentality is that if you beat will face No. 8 Stanford in the everyone, you’ll win the champi-first round of the interhall play­onship.” offs Sunday. 
Dillon and Knott try to keep Siegfried (4-0) made it through their championship hopes alive the regular season undefeated to Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Riehle take the top seed, while Stanford Fields. (2-2) lost its last game and made 
the playoffs on a tiebreaker. Contact Mike Monaco at Siegfried’s final win of the reg­jmonaco@nd.edu ular season was a 6-3 struggle 
against a Duncan team that fin­ished 1-3. Ramblers senior cap-Sorin vs. Carroll tain and linebacker John Aversa 
knows his team cannot overlook By JAMES SOUTHARD anyone. Sports Writer “We played hard. We had some 
mistakes, but we played hard,” 
Gold Division rivals Sorin and Aversa said. “It would be nice Carroll begin their quests for to come out a little sharper, but playoff glory this weekend in Duncan played well. We ended up what is sure to be a closely fought getting the ‘W’ and that’s what we battle. were looking for.” 
Sorin (3-0-1), the defending As the top seed and with the interhall champion, looks to pro-added weight of Siegfried’s his­tect its title after winning it all in toric interhall success, the Ram-Notre Dame Stadium last year. blers might feel extra pressure, This year’s Sorin squad is a dif-but Aversa said his team will not ferent sort of beast, but it is cer-be affected by it. tainly still a team poised to make “We have a lot of new guys on a deep playoff run, junior captain our team, and a lot of guys who Ted Spinelli said. weren’t here last year,” Aversa 
“We lost a lot of senior leader-said. “It seems like we play with ship, but a lot of kids have stepped a new group every year. So I up,” Spinelli said. “We’ve estab-wouldn’t say there’s any added lished a different environment pressure there.” that I like, and I like our chances Stanford comes into the game moving forward.” fresh off a 19-6 loss to rival Keen-



Jackson 
continued from page 20 
weekend we actually know what we [have,] top to bot­tom, because Costello’s a big cog to this team from a phys­ical perspective. He scores goals [and] he’s an intense player that makes us a bet­ter team,” Jackson said. “So having him back is going to give me a better idea of ex­actly what we do have.” 
Opposing the Irish is a Northern Michigan squad that was just swept at West­ern Michigan. Though the Wildcats (4-3-1, 1-2-1-0) are coming off a pair of losses, they will be returning to the Upper Peninsula and the friendly confines of the Ber­ry Events Center where they are 3-0-1 on the season, in­cluding a win and tie on Oct. 21 and 22 against defending national runner-up Michi­gan. 
A unique difference in the rink at Northern Michigan compared to many others in college hockey is the Olym­pic-sized ice sheet, which is about 10 feet wider than most rinks. The Irish practiced this week on the Olympic-sized practice rink attached to the Compton Family Ice Arena to help prepare. 
The size of the rink is just one of the factors Jackson thinks the Wildcats use to create a strong home-ice ad­vantage. 
“You get last [line] change [at home], which is a big ad­vantage in my opinion, but the fact [is] they play on an Olympic-ice sheet so they’re built for that. Their team as far as a transition game, they play a pro-style, but they’re really good on transition and [Wildcat coach] Walt [Kyle is] a good coach. He’s going to get them going at home probably even better than on the road.” 
Senior forward Justin Flo­rek, who has five goals and four assists through eight games, leads the Wildcats in points and senior forward Tyler Gron was a preseason second-team all-CCHA selec­tion. Northern Michigan also utilizes two goaltenders, with senior Reid Ellingson and sophomore Jared Coreau each having started four games on the season. 
“[The Wildcats are] a good hockey team, watching them on film,” Jackson said. “They almost swept Michigan up there and that’s not an easy thing to do for anybody, so they’re pretty well-balanced. They look like they’re deeper than they were last year of­fensively and they’re solid in the back end and they’ve got two good goalies, not just one.” 
After going 15-19-5 last season, the Wildcats appear to be a better team this year, which has not gone unno­ticed by the Irish. 
“They’ve improved since last year,” Irish sophomore center T.J. Tynan said. “They have some pretty good for­wards. It’s going to be a tough task for us this week­end.” 
The Irish travel to North­ern Michigan for a two-game series Friday and Saturday against the Wildcats. Faceoff for both games is scheduled for 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish prepare for long-time rival 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off three straight victo­ries, the Irish will travel to Pur­due and Valparaiso this weekend for a pair of in-state but out-of­conference matchups. 
Buoyed by last weekend’s de­feat of Pittsburgh in which his young team dominated the Pan­thers, Irish coach Tim Welsh said more good things are in store for Notre Dame. 
“What was exciting about last weekend, quite simply, is that we got better,” Welsh said. “Our times 
improved dra­matically from the first week­end to the sec­ond. It was a very positive experience, especially considering that’s the site of the Big East championship. But the second week on the road is always harder than the first.” 
For a team that includes 12 freshmen swimmers and 
“The last few times we’ve last few times swam at Purdue, we’ve we’ve swam stubbed our toes and at Purdue, not performed well. We we’ve stubbed 
our toes and 
really like to measure 
not performed 
ourselves against them.” 
well. We really like to mea-
Tim Welsh 
sure ourselves Irish coach against them.” 


 four freshmen 
divers, the young season has been a learning process, but the team is growing up quickly. Athletes like freshman Michael Kreft, who registered two individual victo­ries on the diving platform last week, and freshman John Wil­
liamson, win­ner of the 200 fly last week­end, are al­ready making their mark for the Irish. 
“The fresh­men are com­ing along,” Welsh said. “You’re start­ing to see a lot more of them up on the score sheet winning events.” 
The talented 
“The freshmen are 
will be a good 
coming along ... You’re 
chance to see 
starting to see a lot more 
how much 
of them up on the score depth this sheet winning events.“ team has.” 
For Welsh, Tim Welsh part of the al­lure of swim-
Irish coach 
cadre of first-years meshes with a group of upperclassmen that led the way in the beginning of the year. Sophomore Frank Dyer, the reigning Big East Player of the Week, has already won three rac­es on the year and posted times among the fastest in the country for freestyle. 
On Friday, the Irish head to West Lafayette for a meet with the Boilermakers who are undefeat­ed through two meets. Though not a conference foe, Purdue will test the Irish and give them a bet­ter idea of their championship as­pirations this season. 
“Purdue is a step up for us. They’ve been a great pro­gram for a long time,” Welsh said. “The 
On Saturday, Welsh hopes to expand his roster and get a look at the 
depth of his team against Val­paraiso. The Crusaders have not won a meet this year, and the Irish hope there will be ample op­portunity to put in athletes who have not seen the pool much this fall. 
“We’d like to see some guys against Val­paraiso that we haven’t seen yet,” Welsh said. “It 
ming against Valparaiso is its antiquated facilities. The pool has just 
six lanes and there is no warm-up area. 
“You don’t see many places like that anymore,’’ Welsh said. “It’s the way that swimming used to be, and it’s neat for the kids to see that.” 
The Irish begin their competi­tion this weekend against Purdue at 6 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


gest teams and counterattack the Irish were eliminated after when you’re attacking,” he said. one game in the Big East quar-
Big East 

“We pretty much dominated all terfinals last year. Last season the stats and had all the pos-marked just the second time in continued from page 20 session [versus Louisville]. We 16 years the Irish did not com-
worked on breaking down the pete in the Big East semifinals. Sept. 30, when the Cardinals fell defense that’s going to be packed “Just not having made it last 1-0. in.” year, we have two classes that 
Louisville sophomore forward Waldrum said the regu-have never been here and we’re Christine Ex-lar season is excited to be back again and to eter leads the enough time prove ourselves,” Schuveiller C a r d i n a l s for freshmen said. “[We are] making a state­
“Just not having made it 
with 13 goals to gain ex-ment because we’ve been doing 
last year, we have two 
on the sea-perience and really well toward the end of the 
classes that have never 
son. Exeter play a criti-season.” 
been here, and we’re 
scored nine cal role in the The Irish are 13-1 in the Big goals during excited to be back again postseason. East semifinals all-time. With a L ou i s v ille’s and to prove ourselves.” Freshman for-win, Notre Dame will play either current seven-ward Lauren Georgetown or No. 24 West Vir­game winning Bohaboy and ginia in the Big East champion-
Jessica Schuveiller 
streak. freshmen de-ship game. 
senior co-captain 
W a l d r u m fenders Taylor The Irish will face Louisville said Notre Schneider and at Dick Dlesk Stadium in Mor-Dame has Sammy Sco-gantown, W. Va., Friday at 3 been preparing all week to field, he said, will play a part in p.m. match Louisville’s intensity. this semifinal matchup. 
“Louisville is a very defensive Even though they won the na-Contact Megan Golden at team and looks to sit in and con-tional championship last season, mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
ROWING 

Irish face Hoosiers in Indianapolis 
By JOE WIRTH to what we have been doing in “This race is also to see Sports Writer practice and it’s another op-how well we have developed portunity to go fast,” Brug-over the course of the fall in As the weather gets colder, geman said. comparison Notre Dame’s fall season con-“This week-to another tinues to wind down. It will end is a great program,” face in-state rival Indiana in opportunity Bruggeman its penultimate race of the to get to race said. “With 
“This weekend is a 
fall season in Indianapolis on a team that the results of 
great opportunity to get 
Sunday. we know per-this race, we 
to race a team that we 
The Irish are coming off forms well will be able 
know performs well and 
of a strong showing at the and that we to build off 
that we will see later 
Head of the Charles race two will see later our strengths weeks ago, where they were in the spring in the spring season.” and continue led by junior Abby Meyers at season.” to conquer coxswain. Sophomore Molly The Hoo-Molly Bruggeman our weak-Bruggeman led at stroke, siers also nesses as 
sophomore rower 
sophomore Olivia Kacsits at had a strong we move our the third seat, senior Erin performance training in-McConnell at the second seat in their last doors for the and sophomore Courtney Ga-race. They winter and berino at bow. finished continue to 
The team finished with a eighth in a 49-crew race field look ahead to the spring.” time of 18:40.01 and a fifth-at the Princeton Chase last The race will take place place finish. weekend. Sunday in Indianapolis. The 
Bruggeman said Indiana Bruggeman said the race time of the race has yet to be will provide a formidable test will show a lot about the announced. to the momentum the Irish team’s improvement and is a have gained in recent weeks. good launching point for the Contact Joe Wirth at 
“The pieces are very similar spring season. jwirth@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles face challenging weekend 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
There will be no rest for wea­ry Belles this weekend as Saint Mary’s takes on a strong confer­ence foe and a Division I oppo­nent, all with a bus ride and less than 16 hours in between. 
The Belles (0-1, 0-1 MIAA) are set to face Hope (2-1, 2-0) in a conference dual meet at home at 7 p.m. tonight, then make the quick turnaround to get to their dual meet against Valparaiso (0­
4) at 11 a.m. Saturday. Despite the lack of recovery time, Belles coach Mark Benishek said this is not a split squad situation — the team needs every swimmer in the pool. 
“We’re all swimming,” Ben­ishek said. “We don’t have as much depth as other teams in our conference have, so we defi­nitely have to swim everybody, whether we’re traveling or at home.” 
Benishek said that the races between Flying Dutch senior co-captain Sarah Sohn and Belles senior Audrey Dalrymple should be some of the most exciting of the night. 
“She’s a really, really good dis­tance swimmer and [individual medley] swimmer,” Benishek said of Sohn. “Audrey Dalrymple, one of our senior captains, went head-to-head with her in (the) conference, and she was touched out at the end in that race for the 400-m [individual medley], so there’ll probably be some of that good competition for her at the meet on Friday.” 
Saturday will be the first time Valparaiso and Saint Mary’s have met for a dual meet, but Benishek said the Belles are not intimidated by the Crusaders’ Division I status. 
We’ve seen them at invitation­als and stuff like that, but this will be the first time head-to­head,” Benishek said. “I think what it comes down to is just some of the talent they have on their team. They’re still re­spectably within our reach, and they’re within the range of a lot of the talent we have in our con­ference.” 
“They do attend some of the large invitationals that we host in our conference — we’ll see them again at the Calvin Invite 
— but I think talent-wise and (the) size of the roster, I think they’re a pretty good match-up for us this coming Saturday, and I think it could be a pretty close meet from what I’ve seen so far.” 
While the Belles will barely have time to dry off between their two meets, Valparaiso hasn’t seen action since the Indi­ana Intercollegiates Oct. 15. Still, Benishek said he is confident that his team won’t shrink from the Crusaders. 
“I think we have a strong group of girls here and I think they are definitely steps beyond where they were last year, so we’re looking for some good things this weekend,” Benishek said. 
The Belles take to the water against the Flying Dutch at Rolfs Aquatic Center 7 p.m. tonight and challenge the Crusaders at Valparaiso’s Athletics-Recre­ation Center at 11 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



DAVID L. HOYT                              

EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE 
AND JEFF KNUREK 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, November 4, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Championship chase 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an upset of top-ranked Marquette, Notre Dame advanced to the Big East semi­finals, where it will meet Louis­ville on Friday. 
No. 20 Marquette defeated Notre Dame (10-6-3, 6-3-2 Big East) in September, but recent moves on the Irish depth chart sparked Notre Dame in its 1-0 Big East quarterfinal victory Sunday over the Golden Eagles. The Irish are hoping to have a similar fortune against Louis­ville (11-5-3, 7-1-2 Big East), a team that defeated them Sept. 16. 
“Anytime that you can get an­other shot to beat an opponent, it’s always good,” Irish senior midfielder and co-captain Jes­sica Schuveiller said. “We’re a different team now, and we’ve grown from experiences this season. We’re looking forward to playing them [Friday].” 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum 
said he agrees that this is an im­
proved Irish team. 
“I think we’re playing well at the right time of the year,” he said. “We’ve kind of quietly turned the corner, and we’ve scored some goals and [record­ed] some shutouts. The team’s confidence has [increased] af­ter a big win, especially doing it on the road against a very good Marquette team.” 
Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss to the Cardinals earlier this season capped a frustrating eight days for the Irish. Notre Dame out-shot the Cardinals 20-10 (5-5 SOG) and were awarded six cor­ners to Louisville’s three, but the Irish were unable to finish. 
Shifting Schuveiller from de­fense to midfield and inserting several freshmen into the Irish backfield has proved beneficial for Notre Dame’s defense. The Irish had recorded just one shut­out in seven games prior to play­ing Louisville. They have shut out five additional Big East op­ponents since their Louisville matchup. 
“I think you go back and look at our lineup. We’ve kind of changed our lineup,” Waldrum said. “The biggest difference is we [have] settled into what our personnel is going to be. Earlier in the season we were still try­ing to find our way and settle into the lineup.” 
Louisville’s lone conference loss came against Marquette on 
see BIG EAST/page 18 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish finish season on home court 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After weathering a disap­pointing conference loss and a freak snowstorm, the Irish are looking forward to playing their final Big East games in the friendly confines of Pur­cell Pavilion. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame (13-9, 5-4 Big East) fell to Connecticut in five sets before salvaging their trip East with a 3-1 victory over St. Johns. In between, the team bus had to navigate the same storm that left over 2 million East Coast residents without power. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said her team is relieved to be finishing the regular season at home against Seton Hall and Rutgers. 
“I think [playing on our home court] helps for sure, es­pecially knowing that it’s our last home weekend,” she said. “We want to finish strong for our seniors, and it’s nice fin­ishing our season here. It’s nice not having to sit on planes and in airports — and driv­ing through a blizzard. The last couple games we’ve had a good crowd, so hopefully the atmosphere will be great — that’s the reason most teams 
see SENIORS/page 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 

After loss to Nova, Clark hopes for at-large bid 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

Villanova only needed one goal to advance to the second round of the Big East tourna­ment in its 1-0 shutout against Notre Dame at Alumni Sta­dium on Thursday. The Irish will run a full week of practice and hope for an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament, which begins Nov. 17. 
“Soccer is a funny game,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “You can get goals easily some days, like against Seton Hall [on Tuesday], but there are other days [when] they don’t come so easily. We just have to hope that we can get an at-large bid. Hopefully our sea­son isn’t over — I still feel like we’ve got a little bit left.” 
Thursday’s loss for No. 18 Notre Dame (9-5-4) marked the first time that the Wildcats won a postseason game in pro­gram history. They will move on to face No. 5 South Florida, one of the tournament’s two top seeds of the Big East Tour­nament. 
Villanova opened scoring on the day with 11 minutes remaining in the first half as Wildcat freshman forward Aaron Dennis sent a shot from nine yards short of the goal off a pass from sophomore for­ward Dylan Renna. 
At the end of the half, the 
see WILDCATS/page 13 
HOCKEY 

Costello returns from injury, renews squad 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Following a road sweep against Bowling Green last weekend, the No. 4/6 Irish will look to dupli­cate the feat this week­end when they travel to Marquette, Mich., to take on No. 17 Northern Michi­gan. 
Notre Dame (5-2-0, 3-1­0-0 CCHA) hopes to receive a boost from the return of sophomore left wing Jeff Costello. He will play for the first time since a 5-3 win at Minnesota-Duluth on Oct. 8 after suffering an undisclosed injury. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson is looking forward to see­ing his complete lineup hit the ice. 
“This may be the first 
see JACKSON/page 17 





