the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Campaignaddressesillegaldownloads 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
A campaign to inform students about illegal file sharing began recently, Robert Casarez, assis­tant director of the Office of Resident Life and Housing (ORLH), said Wednesday. 
The campaign, held in con­junction with the Office of Information Technology (OIT) and help from the Office of General Counsel (OGC), launched this week to educate students about the consequences of engaging in illegal file sharing, Casarez said. 
“We would like to take a proac­tive approach on the issue rather than waiting for the violations,” he said. “Over the last year, the number of copyright infringe­ment notices that the University has received has more than dou­bled, and we are aiming to keep as many students out of the disci­plinary process as possible for these types of violations.” 
Casarez said the University does not actively look for illegal file sharing, but ORLH “conserv­atively estimates” more than 40 percent of the student population is engaging in illegal download­ing or sharing of copyrighted material on the University’s net­work at any given time. This year alone, the University has received more than 800 copy­right infringement notices. 
Illegal file sharing is defined as the downloading or sharing of copyrighted material without having purchased or received 


Club donates money, time to orphanages 



By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
As many Notre Dame student clubs begin to wind down their activities for the year, the Notre Dame branch of Friends of the Orphans (FOTO) still has big plans. 
FOTO is a student group that raises funds and awareness for Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos (NPH) orphanages. Consistent with the orphanage group’s name, which translates to “our little brothers and sisters,” the orphanages provide homes for 
see ORPHANS/page 4 

expressed permission from the copyright owner, Casarez said. File sharing is monitored on the internet by major organizations, such as the Recording Industry Association of America and the Motion Picture Association of America. 
“These organizations then send a copyright infringement notice to our Digital Millennium Copyright Act representative in the OGC, which is then forward­ed on to our office for identifica­tion,” Casarez said. “Illegal sharing or downloading is trace­able, and once the student responsible is identified, they are notified by our office of the viola­tion.” 
see FILES/page 6 


By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 

While many students spend some of their free time at campus jobs, a number of University employees do just the opposite, electing to enroll in courses while employed at Notre Dame. 
This semester, 71 non ­degree students have taken advantage of an employee benefit facilitating ongoing education for those on the University payroll, Assistant Registrar Chris Temple said. 
“There’s a 90 percent tuition remission for an undergraduate course and 100 percent for a graduate one,” Temple said. “Payroll does some tax considera ­tions because the benefit is taxable, which is part of the reason why Human Resources comes into play.” 
Eligible candidates — including administrators, faculty, staff, postdoctoral research associates, interns and spouses — must meet academic prerequisites for any course they enroll in. In addition to this, they must obtain the approval of their immediate supervisor, 

Professor researches education 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Peace studies Professor Catherine Bolten, an anthro­pologist by trade, has focused her research on the state of education in post-war soci­eties, specifically Sierra Leone. 
“I started out working as an apprentice for a medicine man studying ethnobotany in Botswana 15 years ago, Bolten said. “When I went to Cambridge for my master’s I wanted to study AIDS, but after I made a very good friend from Sierra Leone, they convinced me I would be better off studying war and resources.” 
In 2003, Bolten made her first trip to Sierra Leone. The West African nation had recently ended a ten -year 
see LEONE/page 6 




Employees take courses 

Temple said. 
Once employees meet these requirements and receive approval, they have access to courses with spots avail­able after degree -seeking students have finished regis­tering and can begin classes alongside regular students. 
Temple said employees often take classes out of a desire to learn without nec­essarily having a goal of receiving a diploma. 
“I really do believe the main reason employees choose to enter classes is personal enrichment,” Temple said. “Some, though, have hope of using these 
see CLASSES/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Newstud.gov.administrationswornin page3 Viewpoint page8 ‘Waitingforsuperman’atDPAC page10 FootballreadiesforBlue-GoldGame page20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, April 7, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD INTERBREED ANY TWO SPECIES, WHAT WOULD YOU PICK?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
John Cameron Andrew Owens Melissa Flanagan Megan Finneran Christian Myers Joe Wirth 
Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Dan Jacobs Viewpoint Megan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 

Man loses at poker, fails to repay defrauded investors 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — An Albuquerque man was sentenced to prison Wednesday after he asked to repay his investment scam victims through poker tournament winnings, but failed to find luck at the card table. 
“This was long overdue,” said J. Dee Dennis Jr., the superintendent of the New Mexico Regulation and Licensing Department. “This individual wanted to con us into believing that keeping him out of prison would help his victims get their money back. ... We’re calling his bluff. It’s about time we sent him to prison.” 
Samuel McMaster Jr. 
Gabby Triplette  Sean Flanagan  Anthony Cossel  Erica Smith  Patrick Walsh  
grad  freshman  sophomore  freshman  junior  
off campus  Dillon  Alumni  Pangborn  Dillon  

“Panda and “Cheetah and “Dolphin and “Emu and “Giraffe and penguin.” rhinoceros.” squirrel.” dachshund.” monkey.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

stayed out of prison after prosecutors agreed to a request from his attorney to delay sentencing so that he could earn money to repay his victims. The former insurance agent was accused of stealing nearly $450,000 from 23 investors over several years. 
The way he chose to attempt earning money for restitution was through gambling, said Phyllis H. Bowman, lead prosecutor with the state Securities Division. 
After he failed to pay, McMaster was sentenced Wednesday to 12 years in prison, five years of super­vised probation after his release and ordered to make full restitution to his victims. 
Georgia woman cleans purse, finds lottery ticket 
FAIRBURN, Ga. —A Georgia woman’s decision to clean out her purse paid off in a big way when she found an old lottery ticket worth $189,302. Fifty-five­year-old Rhonda Williams of Fairburn says she found the winning Fantasy 5 tick­et in the bottom of her purse after cleaning it out over the weekend. 
WSB-TV reports that the ticket is from a Jan. 17 drawing. Williams picked all of the winning num­bers: 18, 25, 28, 29, 35. 
Williams says she plans to pay off bills and may take a cruise. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Dr. Donald Drakeman, a regular visiting professor at Princeton University, will be giving a lecture titled “An Unprincipled Approach to the Establishment Clause” in room 1130 of the law school. The lecture will be from 
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today. 
A lecture titled “Understanding Genocide: Advances and Challenges in the Study of Mass Extermination” will be held in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies from 4 to 
5:30 p.m. today. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Tonight from 4 to 8 p.m. the Irish softball team will play a double header against Butler in Melissa Cook Stadium. Student admission is free. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for seniors and youth. 
As part of Multicultural Sutdent Programs and Services Semana De La Mujer (Women’s Week), there will be a discussion of latina body image in modern media titled “Dangerous Curves” from 6 to 8 p.m. tonight in the McNeil Library of Geddes Hall. 
The Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will host “The God Debate 
II: Is Good From God?” from 7 to 
9:30 p.m. tonight. The debate will feature theologian and philoso­pher William Lane Craig and neu­roscientist and philosopher Sam Harris. 
Tonight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in room 117 of DeBartolo Hall, Jonathan Bloom, author of “American Wasteland: How America Throws Away Nearly Half of Its Food (and What We Can Do About It),” will give a lec­ture titled “Watch your Waste.” 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY saturday sunday monday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



59 47 HIGH 5565 7056
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


55 43 LOW 4355 5142 






Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SENATE 




Newadministrationswornin 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
During its first meeting under its new administration, the Student Senate approved new committee chairs and passed three resolu­tions Wednesday. 
Student body president Pat McCormick officially assumed his office when he was sworn in to his position during the meeting. 
“I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of stu­dent body president of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, and to the best of my ability pre­serve, protect and defend the con­stitution of the undergraduate stu­dent body,” he said, taking the tra­ditional oath of office. 
Student body vice president Brett Rocheleau and the incoming senators were also sworn into their new positions. 
As the body began its term, the senators approved the new com­mittee chairs. 
Senate approved freshman Heather Eaton to head a new committee on constituent services. 
“We are supposed to be the gateway between the students and student government to make sure student voices get heard,” she said. “We will really be the direct link to getting things done that stu­dents want.” 
Eaton said managing student input on grab-and-go, pep rallies and other day-to-day issues of stu­dent life will fall under her juris­diction. 
Sophomore Ellen Carroll assumed the role of social con­cerns chair. 
“We will be working a lot to challenge students to see beyond their immediate needs on campus and look to the needs of people in South Bend and in the world,” she said. 
The Off-Campus Committee began its second year with a new chair, Katie Zemlock. 
Zemlock said she hopes to improve the discount program for local businesses and possibly host a Taste of South Bend fair on cam­pus. 
Erika Hansen was voted as chair of community relations. She said she hopes to plan trips into South Bend as well as events with local organizations such as the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
Senate approved freshman Neal Ravindra as academic affairs chair. Ravindra said he wanted to plan more academic activities for students and faculty outside the classroom. 
“That’s how we can benefit from an education at this University, by planning what goes on outside the lecture halls,” he said. 
John Sanders, the new resi­dence life chair, said his committee would begin work on plans for move-in in August and the possi­bility of a third meal-plan option. The new university affairs chair, Jason Lovell, said his committee would focus on campus safety and security as well as continuing plans to renovate the DeBartolo Lounge. 
Sophomore Yiting Zheng assumed her position as campus technology chair. She said she hopes to revamp insideND and make progress on a mobile system to monitor laundry. 
The group also unanimously voted for junior Hallie Brewster as gender issues chair, junior Nick Ochoa as multicultural affairs chair and junior Ben Noe as over­sight chair. 
The body also designated sena­tors to represent the group in the Financial Management Board, Campus Life Council, the Council of Representatives and Judicial Council. 

The new Senate passed three resolutions to bestow emeritus status on the previous student gov­ernment administration. 
When former student body president Catherine Soler received emeritus status, McCormick said her term laid the foundation for future student government proj­ects in the community. 
“I think that Catherine demon­strated true leadership in her work on behalf of student safety here on campus and her commit­ment to foster improved commu­nity relations here in South Bend,” he said. 
Student body vice president emeritus Andrew Bell also received praise from his successor. 
“Andrew was a great vice presi­dent,” Rocheleau said. “He has been a great mentor to me in the past month and a half, and he was always a great role model in the office.” 
Chief of staff Claire Sokas recog­nized former chief of staff Nick Ruof for his contributions to stu­dent government. 
“I had the opportunity to work with Nick in student government for the past two and a half years,” Sokas said. “Nick is one of those strong but silent types, and I am lucky to call him a friend and a role model.” 
McCormick said he looked for­ward to the year ahead of his administration. 
“I would like to just express my gratitude for you being here,” he said. “My hope is that we can channel the hopes that came from your campaigns and our cam­paign to the student body.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



College recognized for use of social media 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College has taken No. 97 in StudentAdvisor.com’s “Top 100 Social Media Colleges” ranking. The college review site attributed the ranking to Saint Mary’s interactive 2010 Commencement website. 
“Last year Saint Mary’s created a social-media driven com­mencement website allowing students to create a ‘digital keep­sake’ with photos and streaming videos,” the rankings page states. 
Daniel Miller, director of Web and Interactive Communications, assembled last year’s site with Assistant Director Peter Mlodzik. Miller is responsible for manag­ing all of Saint Mary’s websites, ranging from the main site to the College’s Facebook pages. 
Miller said the ranking consid­ered both the quantity and quali­ty of sites operated by colleges. 
“The rankings look at the num­ber of sites a college has, for example, YouTube pages and Twitter pages,” he said. “They liked what they say on our 2010 Commencement page specifical­ly, which allowed us to be on the Top 100 list.” 
Last year’s commencement page included YouTube, Twitter and Flickr feeds. Miller and Mlodzik helped popularize “SMCgrad” as a Twitter hash tag, drawing attention from students and alumnae alike. 
Twitter was used to share pho­tos of pre-commencement activi­ties and was updated with video and photos throughout the cere­mony. 
“We went to Twitter because it gave us the ability to have exter­nal commenting easily allowed and accessed,” Miller said. “Facebook did not allow broad user content for what we were aiming for.” 
Miller said he was pleased to see the College’s use of social media receive recognition in the online ranking. 
“It is nice to be recognized amongst big and small institu­tions across the country, espe­cially because the idea was con­ceived and built from inside Saint Mary’s,” Miller said. “The idea to the design to the imple­mentation, it all came from SMC.” 
Miller said the constant process of change in social media will always leave room for improvement, and he hopes experimenting with new ideas will be the key to the College climbing in the rankings. 
“We have learned a lot in the building of the 2010 Commencement site. Now we can see what to implement for the 2011 Commencement site as well as sites for reunions, admis­sions, and development,” Miller said. “Having a longer timeline to create the site helps, and we are really looking to get more people involved for the future.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Formerprof.speaks on disease, music 

By MEGAN DILLON 
News Writer 
While music provides simple entertainment to many, Dr. Clayton Henderson said it plays a major role in managing his Parkinson’s Disease (PD) when he spoke at LeMans Hall Wednesday. 
Henderson was diagnosed with PD in 2001. He retired from the Saint Mary’s department of music in 2005 after 25 years of teaching. 
Despite the relief afforded him by music, Henderson said the effects of PD, caused by a lack of the neurotransmitter dopamine, are severe. Besides tremors, he suffers from insomnia, hallucina­tions, mood swings, freezing of his arms and hands and slowed speech. While there is medication, people with PD will see an increase and change in symptoms if the dosage is not perfect. 
“Even right now as I’m talking to you it’s as if someone is control-
He contacted the College hoping to do something to “Even right now as 
educate students I’m talking to you it’s about his disease 
as if someone is
during Parkinson’s 
Awareness Month. controlling me, and 
As his condition it’s the same when has worsened, 
I’m playing.” 
Henderson has turned to music for both relief and dis-Dr. Clayton Henderson 
traction from the professor emeritus symptoms. In early 
SMC dept. of music
2010, a severe episode left him ling me, and the same when I’m playing,” he said. “I’m con­scious of all this but sometimes it’s like I’m not in control of it.” 
Henderson played several short excerpts on the piano, mostly slow bal­lads with one quicker jazz piece, to the 
with speech difficulties, and he especially struggled with long pauses between words. Henderson found singing helped him string words together. 
Henderson said not just music, but anything that someone is pas­sionate about can help people deal with physical challenges and suf­fering. 
“I like to consider it fooling the brain,” he said. “Any passion a person has that lets them do something without thinking about it can do this. For me it is music.” 
amazement of the audience. 
Henderson emphasizes the importance of keeping a positive attitude. He considers having PD in some ways a gift and sees find­ing new ways to deal with it, such as music, a positive challenge. 
“I have PD but PD does not have me,” he said. “I have no fear of the future because I don’t have the future. I have today and I’m learning to enjoy today.” 

Contact Megan Dillon at mdillon4@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 7, 2011 



Orphans 
continued from page 1 
more than 3,600 children at nine facilities. 
Sophomore Erin Wright, FOTO’s 2011-2012 president, said the club is sponsoring a 24-hour fast for Haiti on April 19. 
“Students who sign up for the fast pledge to abstain from food, or if they cannot commit to food, something like their phones or computers for the day,” she said. “They are asked to contact friends and families to support them through donations and prayers.” 
Wright said the club is also planning a “Henna for Honduras” fundraiser on April 27 in LaFortune Hall, where donors can receive a henna tattoo and have an opportunity to learn more about FOTO and NPH. 
Although the group focuses its work overseas, students can still make a difference here in South Bend, Wright said. 
“While our club does sponsor trips to Honduras during school breaks, the majority of our members are involved on campus,” she said. “Through meetings, fundraisers and gen­eral awareness events, we all work together to raise funds and foster compassion for the children of NPH.” 
Current FOTO president Michael Daly said individual students, residence halls and many athletic teams have acted as “godparents” by spon­soring a child at one of the NPH orphanage locations this year. 
“As a godparent, you play an essential role in the lives of NPH children by providing for a child’s basic needs and hope for the future,” he said. “Union of prayer with and for the pequeños at NPH is a wonder­ful and supernatural way to connect in solidarity and, on a spiritual realm, radiate our relationship of love and sup­port.” 
Some members of FOTO will make a visit to the NPH Honduras home during the last week of May, Daly said. 
“It’s an opportunity for spon­sors to experience their labor of love and solidarity in action, making the world a more heal­ing place,” he said. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 




Classes 
continued from page 1 

classes to apply to a degree program at some point in the future.” 
One such individual is Wendy Wolfe, a Program Administrator for the Glynn Family Honors Program. Through the ND Learning at Work Academy, Wolfe is pur­suing a Bachelor’s degree in English at Notre Dame. 
“Being a part of this envi­ronment on a daily basis has been life -changing and enriching,” Wolfe said in a statement on the Office of Human Resources site. “It has given me a real thirst for knowledge and a desire to continue the learning 
experience for myself.” 
While some of the cours­es were espe­cially chal ­lenging, she said she has enjoyed her classroom experiences since begin­ning taking courses in the 2009 fall s e me st er. 
education. 
“The Fred Freeman Staff Scholarship has opened up a world of opportunity to me,” Wolfe said in the statement. “I cannot think of a better way to relate to my students 
and my career than to join them in their learning experience and keep learning right along with them.” 
Temple also said taking courses has offered him greater engage ­ment with his work. 
“Over the eight years I’ve been employed here, I’ve taken nine 

“It has given me a real thirst for knowledge and a desire to continue the learning experience for myself.” 
Wendy Wolfe program administrator Glynn Family Honors Program 
intimidating, although stu­dent engagement in some classes helps to break the tension. 
“Walking into a class of undergrads is not easy,” he said. “Some classes are dis­
“Aside from furthering my education, I stay in touch with academic life on campus.” 
Chris Temple assistant registrar 
classes. Aside from further­
ing my educa­tion, I stay in touch with academic life 
on campus, ” Temple said. “In the Regi strars’ Office we han­dle commence­ment, registra­tion and scheduling so I like to stay engaged in what’s going cussion focused so you get to know [stu ­dents] and some are lecture style so you don’t.” 
Despi te the chal ­lenges of re —adjust ­ing to the classroom, Wolfe said the opportu­
nity to continue her educa­tion at Notre Dame out ­weighs any difficulties. Wolfe said she enjoyed the anthropology course she took with Professor Meredith Chesson last semester and has found the course she is taking now just as fulfilling. 
“I’m currently in a Political Science class with Professor Eileen Botting which studies Mary Wollstonecraft and Mary Shelley,” Wolfe said. “I’m loving this course as well and have found it to be more than rewarding.” 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Wolfe won the Fred E. Freeman Staff Scholarship last August. The scholarship awarded her $1,000 per semester to continue her on in the classroom.” 
After being away from academics for a number of years, Temple said returning to the classroom can be 




Write news. Email mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 page 6 The Observer  NEWS Thursday, April 7, 2011 

Files 
continued from page 1 
Casarez said the most common violations come from students using peer-to-peer file sharing websites, such as BitTorent. 
“While some may not know the scope of their actions, they are indeed violating the law and 
University policy,” Casarez said. “Students can face legal action from one of these out­side organizations for violating copy­right law.” 
Besides break­ing federal laws, illegal file sharing breaks some University rules, too, he said. 
“Not only is this type of file sharing illegal, it is against the University’s 
Responsible Use of Information Technologies Policy,” Casarez said. “First time violators are notified of the violation via a let­ter from our office which requests that they cease any illegal down­loading or sharing or face a disci­plinary conference with our office. Continued violations can result in the loss of access to the University’s network resources and/or a substantial fine.” 
Casarez said the current cam­paign is not meant to crack down on student violations, but rather 
Leone 
continued from page 1 
war. While the conflict had a number of causes, it was widely attributed to the strug­gle over diamond resources. 
“The war wasn’t actually fought over diamonds,” Bolten said. “Young people were calling for democracy and end to the corrupt state 
— many factors converged in this war.” 
Her three-month visit was academic in nature, as she hoped to lay the groundwork for to educate students about the legalities of internet downloading. 
“We will continue to react to those notices the University receives, but we hope that this campaign will cut down on the number of notices by informing the students that this is happen­ing,” he said. 
Casarez said students should look for alternatives to illegal file sharing to avoid the possible con­
“While some may not know the scope of their actions, they are indeed violating the law and University policy.” 
Robert Casarez assistant director Offce of Residence Life and Housing 
sequences. 
“One of the more recent trends is the downloading of television shows,” he said. “While most people assume that if they can watch the episode on their TV or online for free that they can download it legally on a peer-to-peer 
program like Limewire, it is in fact illegal,” he said. “Streaming video websites like Hulu compen­sate the copyright holders and creators via the money they make from advertising, which makes viewing the material on their site legal.” 
Visit oit.nd.edu for further questions on the Responsible Use of Information Technologies Policy. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


her PhD. While “They are buying into school. there, she decid-this idea of “They are ed to go to the buying into 
education, applying 
city of McKinney this idea of because of the themselves in school, education, reputation the but there are no jobs.” applying city had in themselves in Freetown. school, but 
Caterine Bolten
“People in there are no Freetown really peace studies professor jobs,” Bolten Bolten said. “Here you have a person who is 34 years old but has not fulfilled all the tenets of adulthood, like edu­cation or getting a job. They’re in limbo and they don’t know what’s going to happen to them.” 
To help solve the youth problem, the government adopted a national curricu­lum to be taught in all schools, both public and pri­vate. 
Problems persisted as the new system was ineffective at creating competent workers out of the students, who found few jobs awaiting them after leaving 
badmouthed McKinney,” Bolten said. “They said that the people there were helping the rebels during the war and that ex-combatants still lived there.” 
When Bolten reached McKinney, what she found was a city that had been stig­matized and marginalized for many years. Due to the envi­ronment people were living in, they had very flexible relationships and morals, Bolten said. 
“People could justify not helping others or shelving relationships because they could barely help them ­selves,” Bolten said. “Once they could take care of them­selves, it was a trickle down effect of development.” 
The greatest problem Bolten observed was the state of education, which was in disarray at the end of the war in 2002. 
“There was a youth crisis,” said. “They 
expect the 
government to give them jobs because the government expects them to be educated.” 
Through her research, Bolten will take a critical look at these failed developmental and educational programs in an attempt to determine why they are implemented despite their shortcomings. 
While Bolten is returning to Sierra Leone in 2012, she is also hoping to draw insight from a faraway and unex ­pected locale — Glasgow, Scotland. Drawing on similar­ities between the state of edu­cation and employment in Sierra Leone and Glasgow, Bolten hopes to approach the issue from a new angle. 
“This will be a complimen­tary perspective,” Bolten said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Beck ends sinking Fox talk show 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Glenn Beck later this year will end his Fox News Channel talk show, which has sunk in the ratings and has suffered from an advertiser boy­cott. 
Fox and Beck’s company, Mercury Radio Arts, said Wednesday they will stay in business creating other projects for Fox television and digital, starting with some documen­taries Beck is preparing. 
Beck was a quick burn on Fox News Channel. Almost immedi­ately after joining the network in January 2009, he doubled the ratings at his afternoon time slot. Fans found his conservative populism entertaining, while Comedy Central’s Stephen Colbert described Beck’s “crank up the crazy and rip off the knob” moments. 
He was popular with tea party activists and drew thousands of people to the National Mall in Washington last August for a “restoring honor” rally. 
Yet some of his statements were getting him in trouble, and critics appealed to advertisers to boycott his show last summer after he said President Barack Obama had “a deep-seated hatred for white people.” 
Beck said that he went to Roger Ailes, Fox News chairman and CEO, in January to discuss ways they could continue to work together without the daily show. 
“Half of the headlines say he’s been canceled,” Ailes said. “The other half say he quit. We’re pretty happy with both of them.” 
Beck said he noted on his show Tuesday “how many times can I tell the (George) Soros story,” referring to the liberal donor Beck has made a target of attacks. 
“We felt Glenn brought addi­tional information, a unique perspective, a certain amount of passion and insight to the chan­nel and he did,” Ailes said. “But that story of what’s going on and why America is in trouble today, I think he told that story as well as could be told. Whether you can just keep telling that story or not ... we’re not so sure.” 
Beck, who outlined on Wednesday’s show his reasons for believing that “we’re head­ing into deep and treacherous waters,” told his viewers at the end of the show that his Fox talk show would conclude. 
“I will continue to tell the story and I will be showing other ways for us to connect,” he said. 
More than 400 Fox advertis­ers told the company they did not want their commercials on Beck’s show. Beck’s advertisers were dominated by financial services firms, many touting gold as an investment. 
Ailes dismissed the financial impact of the boycott but expressed some frustration with it. 
“Advertisers who get weak-kneed because some idiot on a blog site writes to them and says we need to stifle speech, I get a little frustrated by that,” he said. 
One of Beck’s most prominent critics — David Brock, founder of the liberal watchdog Media Matters for America — said that “the only surprise is that it took Fox News months to reach this decision.” 
“Fox News Channel clearly understands that Beck’s increasingly erratic behavior is a liability to their ratings and their bottom line, and we are glad to see them take this action,” said James Rucker, executive director of ColorofChange.org, which organized the advertiser boy­cott. 
Beck was a lightning rod for other critics, as well. The Jewish Funds for Justice organized a petition drive last fall to get Beck fired for what it called his misuse of Nazis and the Holocaust phrases against politi­cal opponents. 
Viewers had begun turning away. Beck’s 5 p.m. ET show averaged 2.7 million viewers during the first three months of 2010, and was at just under 2 million for the same period this year, the Nielsen Co. said. His decline was sharper among younger viewers sought by advertisers. 
Increasingly, the show began to be dominated by Beck stand­ing in front of a chalk board giv­ing his theories about the world’s troubles. 
However, Beck has built a powerful brand for himself through a daily radio show, best-selling books and personal appearances. Mercury Radio Arts is expanding and a key Fox executive, Joel Cheatwood, is joining the company later this month. 
Beck’s company created and operates a news and opinion website, TheBlaze.com. For $9.95 a month, he offers fans access to “Insider Extreme,” a website that beams documen­taries, Beck personal appear­ances and a video simulcast of Beck’s daily radio show, with an extra hour featuring Beck cohorts. 
Beck said ratings for his tele­vision show were not an issue, noting that “we have buried the competition in every sense.” His supporters believe that the recent decline is more a reflec­tion that ratings were abnor­mally high early last year. 
“Call CNN and MSNBC and ask them if they’d like to have Glenn’s ratings at 5 in the after­noon,” Ailes said. 

Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Police pepper-spray mischievous 8-year-old 

Associated Press 
DENVER — Eight-year-old Aidan Elliott had thrown a TV and chairs at his Colorado ele­mentary school and was trying to use a cart to bust through a door to an office where teach­ers and other students fled for safety. 
No one could calm the boy, not even the staff in a program for children with behavior problems like him. So they called police, who had inter­vened with Aidan twice before. 
Police found him with a foot-long piece of wood trim with a knife-like point in one hand and a cardboard box in the other. 
“Come get me, f-----,” he said. 
When they couldn’t calm him down, one squirted Aidan with pepper spray. He blocked it with the cardboard box. 
A second squirt hit the youngster in the side of the head, and down he went, according to an account of the Feb. 22 standoff in a police report first obtained by KUSA­TV. 
Aidan and his mother went on national talk shows on Wednesday to say using pepper spray on an unruly 8-year-old was too much. 
Police and officials at Glennon Heights Elementary in Lakewood, Colo., say it could’ve been worse. 
“Had the officers chosen to be hands-on with him, the poten­tial for him getting some type of injury and, maybe even offi­cers, would have been much higher,” police spokesman Steve Davis said. 
“It was the best choice made,” he said. 
Aidan started acting up while on the bus to school, the police report said. He began scream­ing and then continued after breakfast while throwing chairs at his teachers. 
“He was being very aggres­sive, very violent,” said Melissa Reeves, the school district spokeswoman. 
There were eight students with Aidan in the classroom, Reeves said, and teachers removed them after he became violent. They barricaded them­selves in an office, as he tried to bust in, Davis said. 
Aidan was swearing and shouting expletives at his teachers and threatening them, Davis said. He taunted police when they arrived. 
“I wanted to make something sharp, like if they came out, ‘cause I was so mad at them,” the boy said on NBC’s “Today” show. “I was going to try to whack them with it.” 
After hitting him with the second squirt, officers took Aidan outside for some fresh air to help dissipate the spray. Paramedics were treating his red, irritated face with cool water when his mother arrived. 



The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, April 7, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
My confession 
Forgive me, journalism, for I have sinned. It has been three years since I converted to the craft, and never in that time have I felt the need to confess — until now. You see, journalism, I’ve tried hard to aspire to your virtues, and to avoid your vices. I fought tempta­tion for years. 

Laura Myers 
But this year, I gave in. 
Senior Sports 
It was inno-
Writer 
cent, at first. A silent fist pump in the press box when Notre Dame scored its first touchdown against USC this November. No one was hurt by my action. 
But then, at halftime, as it became clear who had the upper hand, it happened. A colleague and I went to the bathroom of the Coliseum’s press box and jumped up and down at the idea of Notre Dame’s first defeat of USC in nine years, cheer­ing like fans, not reporters. 
For shame. 
It was an isolated incident. I made my peace with it and moved on. It’s not isolated anymore. 
When Skylar Diggins came into my place of employment last Tuesday morning wearing the Dayton Regional champion hat she had more than earned the night before in a win over Tennessee, I didn’t try to talk shop or get a scoop. I simply handed her a bagel and said, “By the way, I like your hat.” 
Because I did. 
Before the Connecticut game Sunday, I painted my fingernails green, a silent act of rebellion against a rule of professionalism that I truly do believe in. Then we beat Connecticut. At that point, old rules were out the window, journal­ism. I’ve reported on six losses to the Huskies in the past two years. To watch a win, a win by nine points, a win that sent us to the champi­onship game? I cheered on press row. Not loudly, or obnoxiously. But I did. 
Two days later, we were back for the national championship. My fel­low senior reporter and I dressed up like Muffet McGraw. Other than that, we kept our professional demeanor intact for most of the game. 
But when Tyra White hit that 3 with 1:07 minutes to go, an audible “No!” slipped out before I could stop it. When senior Becca Bruszewski went to the bench with seconds left in order to get a much-deserved round of applause for an excellent career, we quietly clapped along. 
And today, I wore my Notre Dame women’s basketball T-shirt to class, to show how proud I am of this team, my fellow students, for such an amazing year. 
So please forgive me for my indis­cretions, journalism. As penance, I will attempt to remove myself from temptation by never again covering Notre Dame sports. I’ll simply be a fan. 
That’s as good as I can do, jour­nalism. In respect of your biggest virtue, absolute truth, I have to give my real confession. 
I’m not sorry at all. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

College reform 
Having gone through the bread and butter years of college, I now under­stand that not all we learn here is adequately preparing us for the future. As I enter the last two semes­ters of my college career, there are many classes within my major that I won’t have the opportunity to take 
— classes that could be very useful in finding my career path. I came to college 


Mark Easley 
specifically to pre­pare myself for my 
Elephant in 
future career in 
the Room 

private industry. But, regardless of our ambitions, what we all get is a smorgasbord of liberal arts education enforced through a core curriculum. Yes, there is something more to col­lege education than just what you learn in your major, but in this day and age, where children across the world are gunning to beat us in busi­ness and innovation, can we really afford to take the extra time? 
Preface: I am a computer science major and a Chinese minor. I chose these because they offer a clear path to employment and allow me to learn skills that are in demand, a main motivator to pursue a college degree. 
Looking back, freshman year essen­tially was a waste. I learned things, maybe not as much in the chemistry department, but these things were not very relevant to my future work. For many of us there is a lot of garbage we have to wade through before we can get to the meat and potatoes of our degrees. In our younger years, we push through the less than desirable general requirements so that we can see how great our major classes real­ly are. We’ve lived through science, math, history, literature, theology, and philosophy. I know Notre Dame is exposing us to a holistic education, but I think there is a point when we are jumping through too many hoops to get to where we want to be. 
All these required classes can be defended. It is important for a col­lege-educated adult to know some basic scientific theory as well as have a decent competency in mathematics. Literature is not only something we use on regular basis, but can be quite rewarding on a personal level. A grounding in history is useful for informed intellectual discussion. Theology is totally understandable as we go to a Catholic school and proba­bly don’t mind getting exposed to a little religion while we’re here; other­wise, we would have matriculated to one of the many secular options avail­able in higher education. And philoso­phy opens the mind and engages you to think at a higher level. However, the time between the first required class and the second required class is where exposure can actually lead to torture. Granted, depending on your major you can still have an overexpo­sure to any one of these core disci­plines. However, eliminating a required second theology and philoso­phy frees up two classes that you can choose to pursue something relevant or explorative. Eliminating excessive science and math courses would give people the choice to continue those studies or pursue other interests. 
If we want to more effectively com­pete with the world, we need to stop weighing down college students, who only can afford to pay for four years of education at a private university at best, with less personally important subject material. Every subject has merit at some level, but only a select few are imposed on every student. The fewer courses that are impressed upon students, the better college scholars will respond. I am not advo­cating lessening the amount of knowl­edge gained by a four year under­graduate, but giving them the free­dom to shift the focus in a direction they want to pursue. A college should provide guidelines on what to study, not dictate what to study. This prob­lem is not just specific to Notre Dame, but American higher education at large, and change must take place at many institutions. It is a minor gripe in terms of the big picture, but a small fix here and a small change there can make a big difference to a generation. 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
#leggingsforlife 
To the leggings-haters, 
There has been a lot of people writ­ing Letters to the Editor recently who are quite decidedly against wearing leggings as pants. We have read your anti-leggings comments and heard quite a few ourselves. Our question to you — why are leggings not pants? They serve the same purpose as jeans, cords or slacks, all of which are generally accepted as pants: to cover the legs. Is there some other intrinsic value to pants that we are missing? Are leggings too tight to be considered pants? Take a look at many of the jeans-wearers around you, many of them appear to be paint­ed onto the legs of the wearer. Do you object to the variety in the length of leggings? We own jean capris, flare-leg jeans and ankle-cropped jeans. Are these not all considered pants? 
We are eager to understand why so many people hate on leggings. As girls, we’ve received criticism for wearing skirts that are too short. We’ve taken flack from Notre Dame boys who hate that we wear sweat­pants. But to be chided for actually attractively covering our legs? That’s new. 
And to Mr. Brainard, we hope peo­ple do see our outfit choices. Leggings are an extremely comfortable alterna­tive to jeans, but a classy upgrade from sweatpants. So next time you see one of us in leggings, consider that we may have been up late work­ing on a project, paper or test. We hope that a true gentleman can rec­ognize our dedication to our academ­ics. 
Sincerely, 
Danielle Guidry 
junior 
McGlinn Hall 
Apr. 6 

We were not defeated 
Dear Observer staff, 
We were not defeated. The women’s basketball team fought with true Fighting Irish spirit, beating Tennessee and UConn to get to that championship game, and that is nothing to be ashamed of. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Real integrity is doing the rightthing, knowing that nobody’s goingto know whether you did it or not.” 
Oprah Winfrey
U.S. actress & television show host 
Stacy Hill 
sophomore Ryan Hall Apr. 6 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Do not fear to be eccentric in opin­ion, for every opinion now acceptedwas once eccentric.” 
Bertrand Russell British author & philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 7, 2011 page 9 
Towards God together 
John’s Gospel opens with an unexpected twist, a twist perhaps important to note especially as our community unites again to mourn the loss of one of our members. John the Baptist is preaching by the Jordan River. Suddenly, a fig­ure appears in the Fr. Lou DelFra distance. John stops 
Faithpoint 
his preaching and points in the direction of the figure. He says, “Behold, there is the Lamb of God, the one I have been preach­ing about.” And a couple of the disciples, curious, start to follow Jesus as he passes by. 
Jesus seems to realize he is being fol­lowed, so he turns and asks, “What are you looking for?” Perhaps like us in tragic times, they don’t have much of an idea, at least not one they can well articulate. So they ask Jesus a question in return: “Teacher, where do you live?” And Jesus, succinctly but beautifully, responds, “Come and see.” 
And then, the twist, the impact of which we might even miss, in the midst of a cul­ture that prizes individualism and the chal­lenge and adventure of “how far can you get on your own.” 

For thousands and thousands of years, the Jews, who comprise the audience that has been listening to John the Baptist, have been waiting for the Messiah. Now, John — who has whipped them into a frenzy with prophecies that this Messiah who is about to arrive — abruptly stops talking and says simply, “There he is.” A courageous couple of disciples begin to pursue Jesus. And then Jesus himself turns to them, looks them in the eye, and says, invitingly, “Come and see.” 
So, what should be the next movement in the story? Something like: “So the disciples followed breathlessly, overjoyed that the one they and their ancestors had been waiting for through the millennia had pos­sibly, finally, arrived!” 
But, surprisingly, this is not the next movement in John’s narrative. Instead, we hear that Andrew, one of the disciples who is pursuing Jesus, after being invited to “come and see,” departs from Jesus, and begins searching for his brother Simon. When he finds Simon, he says to him, “We have found the Messiah.” Might this not be important, that the first declaration of the finding of Jesus in John’s Gospel is not “I have found the Messiah” but “We have found the Messiah” — the “we” apparently referring to Andrew and the second disci­ple who had first been pursuing Jesus. Finally, John concludes this interlude with a simple, poignant sentence: “And Andrew brought his brother to Jesus.” 
Immediately afterwards, in case we missed the crucial point, Jesus calls Phillip to follow him, and an identical cycle ensues. Again, John interrupts the natural flow of the story to report that, after Philip begins to follow Jesus, “Phillip left and called his friend Nathanael, and he brought Nathanael to Jesus.” 
The whole point of writing a Gospel, it seems fair to say, is to invite people to encounter and follow Jesus, Yet, in John’s Gospel, as soon as a disciple begins to fol­low Jesus, John interrupts the story to tell us, “But first that person went and got someone else.” 
Clearly, John is trying to get an important point across about the Christian life: it is not, has not, and never will be about a soli­tary journey. The journey towards Christ always involves other people, and takes place in the context of community. 
We can’t nourish the presence of Christ, so needed in days like these, by ourselves. Otherwise, when Jesus said, “Come and see,” the next line of John’s Gospel would be, “And they took off, left the others behind and had Jesus all to themselves.” 
These Lenten days ask us to examine the quality of our discipleship, to search more deeply for the presence of God in our lives. John’s Gospel issues a clear challenge that included in this self-examination must be questions like: With whom am I following Christ? Who am I bringing to Christ? Who am I allowing to bring me closer to Christ? Am I giving time to the relationships in my life that are gifts — indeed, necessary gifts 
— from God in my journey towards God? For, like the first disciples, we journey towards God together. 
Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is the Director of Campus Ministry Bible Studies and the ACE chaplain. He can be reached at del­fra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Allies for spirit of inclusion 
We all may have different reasons for deciding to come to Notre Dame — academic, religious, athlet­ic, familial or some combination of these and more. Notre Dame’s tradition attracts people with similar values and aspirations, acknowledging their uniqueness while providing them with a firm sense of commonality. More often than not, over time one can firmly establish a reassuring sense of communi­ty here. 
For lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and espe­cially questioning individuals (LGBTQ), the opposite has often been true. From the beginning, they are inundated with abrupt and firm assertions of het­eronormativity. Frosh-O, Domerfest, SYRs and dorm parties negatively reinforce commonly held assumptions about “normal” sexuality and orienta­tion. LGBTQ individuals are faced with a choice: either adhere to the standards of “straightness” or face ostracism and exclusion. And yet this is their home, and a place close to our hearts as well, where comfort thrives — or at least should thrive — from the freedom to be oneself. 
As AllianceND’s officers our mission statement is as follows: “The purpose of AllianceND shall be to further embody Notre Dame’s Spirit of Inclusion, in accordance with the Catholic Church’s Doctrine of Universal Acceptance, and to address aversive homophobia towards Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning persons and their Allies.” Knowing the needs of the Notre Dame com­munity, we have grounded ourselves in an ongoing social conversation. The best way to combat preju­dice is to know people that experience prejudice; and with campus culture being as it is, we have realized that we need to speak up — to let people know that everyone knows someone that this impacts. 

The involvement of allies is crucial in developing this alliance. All we ask from our allies is to be sup­portive and understanding of the fact that past our differences, we are all individuals of the same com­munity who deserve to be treated equally. We therefore invite you to come together with many of your current classmates, roommates and friends and begin a conversation. 
If you are interested in finding out more, please contact alliancend@gmail.com, and we’ll add you to the listserv. We meet at 9 p.m. in the Great Hall of O’Shag on Wednesdays. Please come by to discuss what being an ally means both in general and here at Notre Dame! 
Karl Abad 
sophomore Satin Edwards Hall Apr. 6 
Jack Diaz de Leon 
junior Farley Hall Apr. 6 
Sam Costanzo 
junior O’Neill Hall Apr. 6 
Chris Collins 
senior Carroll Hall Apr. 6 
Brandon Buchanan 
senior 
O’Neill Hall 
Apr. 6 

A humble request 
Dear Ladies, 
Every single one of you reading this right now is absolutely beautiful. You may not think so, but I insist that you trust me. Sadly, you may not see it, or others may not acknowledge it, because so many of us are sick. Even personally, I have not been what I would hope to be, and have pushed women (even those I cared about!) to be less than what they are. Ladies, forgive those of us who have taught you that the “only” way to win a man’s affection is by appeal­ing to his lower appetites. 
I cannot speak for all men, and there are certainly plenty who are innocent, but accept this humble let­ter in response to the issues surrounding the letter (“Ladies, be decent” Apr. 4). In both my personal experience and the witness of others, it has become clear that women feel pressured to dress and act a certain way. I may be only one man, but I’m certain that others would say the same: I want you to dress modestly. This is not because I do not like your style or that I am judging your character, but because I do care about who you are and I do not want my weak­ness to blind me from seeing who you truly are beyond the surface. 

If I am lucky enough to be a father, I want my daughter to dress modestly so that men will be forced to see how beautiful she is on the inside rather than on the outside. Imagine your future daughters: what do you want to tell them? Ladies, forgive me if I ask too much, and you are free to ignore me. Know that even if you ignore me, I will still strive to give you as much respect as you deserve. But I hope you will listen. 
Jason Runkle 
junior 
Duncan Hall 
Apr. 6 
Remembering Sean Valero 
Death. 
It’s a five letter word that makes a lot of people uncom­fortable. Yet it is also one of the few things we all have in common. Sooner or later, everyone will die. Death has a way of putting things in perspective. So many things we spend our time worried about do not seem to matter in the face of death. How people act in response to a death speaks volumes about their character. 
As almost everybody knows, Notre Dame student Sean Valero died last week. If so many people know about his death, then why am I writing a Letter to the Editor about it? Because I do not want Sean to be forgotten. Notre Dame moves at a very fast pace and even tragic events like these can get lost in the hustle and bustle of life under the Dome. Too often we become preoccupied with stuff that can make us lose sight of the big picture. We cram every minute of our day with homework, papers, projects, study breaks, lunches, dinners, texting friends, tweets, Facebook posts, etc. 
I think we should take a moment to examine what is really important in our lives. What I would like everyone to do is take five minutes out of their day to stop and think about the wonderful students we have lost this year. Their names are Declan Sullivan, Lizzy Seeberg and Sean Valero. Maybe this will inspire some self-reflection. Maybe this will lead to a meaningful conversation with a friend. 
We spend so much time talking about trivialities. Why can’t we just spend five minutes talking about those who have died? Notre Dame is a place that prides itself on valu­ing community. Our tight-knit community is great at times, but for those who feel that they don’t belong, it might make them feel more isolated. It is great that Notre Dame has rig­orous academic standards … until we spend every minute possible cramming our schedules to get better grades when we should be cramming every inch of our heart with love for each other. 
The time has come to ask ourselves the hard questions, such as “What do I believe?” and “Does the way I live my life accord with those values?” Have I spent my time at Notre Dame developing meaningful relationships with peo­ple or am I constantly counting down the days to the week­end? Are my conversations aimed at getting to know and love the person in front of me or am I just trying to fill an awkward silence? Do I see other people, even strangers, as getting in the way of my own happiness or do I see loving them as the only way to be truly happy? 
I realize that other things in the world and at Notre Dame are going on. And that’s a good thing because life must go on. But I would ask that amid the hullabaloo of Bookstore Basketball, women’s basketball and whatever else may be competing for your attention, that you give time for serious reflection and meaningful conversation. Thank you. 
Cornelius Rogers 
senior 
Keenan Hall 
Apr. 5 

The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Thursday, April 7, 2011 
“The Two Gentlemen of Verona” DeBartolo Performing ArtsCenter 7:30 p.m.$15 regular, $12 senior, $10 stu­dent/youth  SUB Concert: O.A.R and ChiddyBangStepan Center7:30 – 10 p.m.100 tickets available, Friday, 5 pm, $15  “The Breakfast Club” DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 11:59 p.m.$3 with Student ID  Holy Half MarathonJoyce Center10-1 p.m.$25 Dining Hall registration and$30 Online/Race Day registra­tion  
Two men travel to Verona, Italy, and fall in love with the same  O.A.R. and Chiddy Bang are com­ing to Notre Dame this weekend as  After an amazing and energetic SUB Concert, take a day off to relax with friends and watch this week’s  Been training for the Holy Half? The day has come for you to race  
woman. Want to see how this Shakespearean comedy ends? Don’t miss the first ever collaboration between the department of Film, Television and Theatre and the  part of SUB’s annual concert. With such high-profile names, this year promises to be great. So go with a group of friends and enjoy their great music in what promises to be  Midnight Movie at DPAC. This Saturday, enjoy the classic which transcends cliques and stereotypes. Bring a date or your friends and catch this ‘80s classic that never  throughout Notre Dame’s beautiful campus. Not running this year? Go and cheer your friends as they run 13.1 miles and raise more than $20,000. Proceeds benefit local  
Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival.  a fun and exiting event.  gets old.  charities.  
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu  


By ALEX KILPATRICK Scene Writer “Waiting for Superman,” which plays at the Debartolo Performing Arts Center this weekend — though certainly not a lighthearted, fun movie — is the must-see documen­tary of the year. Davis Guggenheim’s highly politicized film analyzes the flaws in the American public school system and received the Audience Award for Best Documentary at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival. Guggenheim is also the director of “An Inconvenient Truth,” the 2006 informative documentary about glob­al warming, and several TV shows, including “Alias,” “24” and “Deadwood.” The movie keeps the audience on the edge of their seats as it follows the education of five children ranging from kindergarteners to eighth graders in urbanized areas across America, including Washington, D.C., Harlem, the Bronx, Los Angeles and Redwood City, Calif. Viewers watch a moving back-story that presents seri­ous, ambitious students who wish to gain a decent education. The kids’ hardworking parents are more than determined to give their children an adequate education. They want them to eventually attend col­lege in spite of numerous obstacles in the way. Nakia, six-year-old Bianca’s single mother, has taken pay cuts at  her job as a receptionist living in Harlem, but is nonetheless driven to put Bianca through college. “I don’t care what I have to do. I don’t care how many jobs I have to obtain, but she will go to col-lege,” Nakia said. As the film quickly shows, charter schools are one of the best options a c a d e m i c a l l y for families with financial c o n c e r n s . Unfortunately, in order to attend small­er, less c r o w d e d c h a r t e r schools with e x c e l l e n t t r a c k records, public funds and high stan­dards of curriculum, the students’ parents must enter a random lottery system that has low acceptance rates. The intensity of the cinematography as Guggenheim cuts back and forth between the anxiously awaiting fami­lies as the lottery winners are called only heightens the suspense in the theater audience.  The sentimentality of the documen­lic schools to drop his children off at tary does not interfere with a private school. He does this to show Guggenheim’s responsibility to depict that many in the audience have suffi­an accurate portrayal of facts behind cient resources to give their young America’s successes and failures in students a private school education, the public school system in a yet do nothing to improve the public way that view-education system. ers can Although Guggenheim presents e a s i l y many failures in the nation’s public u n d e r ­education system, he also shows the s t a n d . successes of such leaders as Michelle A l o n g Rhee, the chancellor of schools in with the Washington, D.C., who radically per-n a r r a -suaded the teachers’ union to tives of exchange tenure for merit-based the five salaries that could reach sums of f a m i l i e s , approximately $130,000 per year. he displays Overall, “Waiting for Superman” is n a t i o n a l an emotional journey for the average statistics in movie viewer, but is still worth a a n i m a t e d watch if only for a better understand-clips, pre-ing of American public education. s e n t i n g national test Contact Alex Kilpatrick at scores in akilpatr@nd.edu reading and math, the astronomical On campusdropout rates of public high What: “Waiting for Superman”schools in urban Where: Debartolo Performing Artsareas and the flaws of the tenure sys-Center tem. When: Thursday, April 7, 6:30 p.m. Guggenheim also criticizes the and Sunday, April 10, 3 p.m. movie’s assumed target audience of How much: $6 regular, $4 seniors, upper to middle class Americans. At $3 students the film’s beginning, viewers see him Learn more: performingarts.nd.edu driving past several Los Angeles pub- 

LAUREN KALINOSKI I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, April 7, 2011 page 11 

It has come to my attention through a number of encounters and conversations that there is a negative sentiment growing like a weed in the hearts and minds of collegiate uprights everywhere. At first it seems absurd. But I have heard through the grapevine some­thing that goes far beyond any­thing I could ever imagine to con­ceive during my tenure in college. It is just this: Facebook is bad. 
Let us back up a moment. Let me take you to Texas, a quaint little state I had the pleasure of visiting over Christmas break. While there, I met an intriguing young man with wide musical tastes and graphic design skills as impressive as my knowledge of Lord of the Rings trivia. After a lengthy conversation I men­tioned that I’d find him on Facebook. Did I jump the gun? Assume too much? Apparently I did, because he responded, “Oh, I don’t have a Facebook.” 
What? Who are you? Go back into the hole in the ground from whence you came! Who doesn’t have a Facebook? But that’s not what really shocked me. The true shock was the flippant irreverence for the line he spoke, as if his hipster juice were so strong that I should have smelled the non-Facebook vapors emanating from him the minute he walked into the room. Touché, I could hear him think. She thought I was a slave to social media, but unlike her, I have defied it! Now, let’s exam-ine this reasoning for a minute. 


It is true that millions of students including us spend copious amounts of time on Facebook every day. Gotta’ get a bowl, gotta’ get serial updates about what every­one was doing between the hours of 2am and 8am, etc. The worst part is when people are on Facebook in class. It’s an hour and fifteen minutes. You do not need to comment on your friends’ dance pictures in the middle of Philo. Just because you can, doesn’t mean you should. Welcome, therefore, to the end of the thought process. 
People abuse Facebook all the time. Too many people treat it like alcohol, and binge to the point of making themselves sick. Except with Facebook, you don’t get physically sick, but it is your grades/social life/relation­ship with your roommate that is infected by your inat­tention. This is wrong. 
Facebook was created as a social networking site. As Aaron Sorkin spent too many millions of dollars inform­ing us, it is the social network — singular, all-encom­passing and substitutes need not apply. If you need to find someone in class to ask a question about a day you missed, you look them up on Facebook. If you want to tell your friends from high school that you’re going to be in town, you post on their wall. If you want everyone to know how much cooler your weekend was than theirs, you change your profile picture to show it off. 
When you accept friend requests you literally make them part of your network — which can help with busi­ness and beyond. This is a useful tool and is essential today. You need to have a presence on the Internet, a lit­tle corner where people can go to when they want to initiate communication but don’t have the means to find you any other way. Facebook itself is not bad, wrong or evil. It is your inability to use it properly that has caused you such distress and, in the case of my Texan friend, distrust. 
If you cannot pull yourself off Facebook for three hours, you are the problem, not Facebook. It’s not mak­ing you look at it. It doesn’t pop up in front of your paper and say “Check me, Please right now! Oh please, oh please!” No — you pull it up. You have to click on it, or enable it to receive chats. If you had the self-control to close the tab, to sign out or to move away from your computer completely, this wouldn’t even be an issue. 
It isn’t a glory moment when you inform your friends that you’re “off Facebook” or haven’t ever had one. Someone who doesn’t drink isn’t morally superior to someone who drinks in healthy moderation. When you declare yourself free from the confines of Facebook, that’s fine, but don’t act like it’s a demonic enterprise set to suck up your life and time. 
Facebook allows you to message former teachers with new questions, post pictures for your family to see (your mom’s got a Facebook, get over it) and post articles and videos on the walls of people who you think would enjoy them. Don’t blame Facebook for your inability to leave it alone. Instead, use it for its benefits and have some self-control. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Interim Scene Editor 
Ark Music Factory. The first thing to pop into most people’s heads after that sentence probably ranges from “Rebecca Black” to “auto-tune” to “exploitation.” Some people may have even expe­rienced nausea. Basically, unless you are Ryan Seacrest, you most likely have a fairly negative view of the new music production company. 
But, despite common misconceptions, Ark Music is not only about auto-tuning tweens and reaping the financial benefits. Meet CJ Fam, an 11-year-old from Ft. Lauderdale, Fl. Currently, she works for Ark Music and her music video, “Ordinary Pop Star,” can be found on their YouTube channel, trizzy66. 
CJ began singing three to four years ago, draw­ing inspiration from her drama classes. She began collecting singing gigs, including perform­ing the national anthem at a rodeo. 
“It took my parents a few times watching me perform, but eventually they said to themselves, ’Man, this girl can really sing,’” CJ said. 
Before benefiting from her talent, CJ improved her musical talents through music and acting lessons. She draws her inspiration from artists like Lady Gaga and Katy Perry. CJ especially admires them for their sincere attitudes and drive to be themselves. 
“Everyone says [Lady Gaga’s] wack, but she’s not. She’s just trying to get her name out there,” she said. 
And that is exactly what CJ wants to do. Unlike Rebecca Black, who reportedly paid to have Ark Music produce her video, CJ sent audi­tion tapes to Ark Music. The new production company was looking to start a girl band, but called CJ back to launch her as a solo artist. 
“It’s been a rollercoaster. It’s once in a life­time,” CJ said of the experience. 
Ark Music has received a lot of criticism for their business model. People have claimed they exploit children’s desire for fame to make money, but CJ would like to debunk this myth. She has enjoyed every minute she has worked with the producers, Patrice Wilson and Clarence Jey. 
“[Patrice and Clarence] have been very sup­portive. They’re just starting out too and they’re not what people [have] been saying about them,” CJ said, thankful for their support and help. 
And CJ has enjoyed getting to know her fellow Ark Music artists. Before the launch of the com­pany’s website, Ark Music hosted a meet and greet with the artists, both those who have launched and those who are still in production. She calls the group “one big family.” 
But this 11-year-old with the bouncing blond curls doesn’t just have a powerful voice. CJ has performed in professional plays, both in the United States and internationally, including “Annie” and “The Sound of Music.” She also wrote her single, “Ordinary Pop Star,” which is nearing almost 1 million hits on YouTube. She also wrote it when she was ten years old. 
Regarding the song, CJ also wanted to clear up some misconceptions about the message behind the song. She was not trying to imply that she is a pop star and has to deal with everything that life entails. 
“The song is not that I’m already famous, it’s about that girl who has the choice between living the life of a star or being a normal girl,” CJ said. “She just wants a little bit of both, but she has to decide.” 
Although CJ has not had to experience these choices yet, she is well on her way. Her road to fame currently involves trips back and forth between Los Angeles and Florida to meet with record labels and to hype her new single, which should be hitting iTunes soon. 
So check out this rising star on YouTube and iTunes. She’s only 11, but she has a voice that belies her age and promises to keep her on the music scene for years to come. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS page 12 
MLB 

Young leads Arizona over Cubs with his glove and bat 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Chris Young wanted to give the Diamondbacks a little momentum heading into their home opener. 
He did, with his bat and glove Wednesday as Arizona beat Chicago 6-4 to end a three-game skid. Young dou­bled, tripled and drove in two runs to help his team snap an eight -game losing streak against the Cubs. 
“You just want to go out there and play good baseball and get the wins to back up your effort,” he said. 
Young also got very acquainted with the Wrigley Field outfield, making a div­ing catch in the first inning to rob Kosuke Fukudome of an extra-base hit, then success­fully chasing down Tyler Colvin’s flyball into the out­field wall in the fourth. 
“(The ivy) is kind of dead out there right now but that kind of makes it worse. It’s all twigs,” the centerfielder said of his fourth inning grab. “It’s completely worth it if you catch it, but if you drop it you’ll be mad at yourself for even going after it.” 
Armando Galarraga (1-0) won in his first NL start, giv­ing up five hits and four runs in 7 1-3 innings. J.J. Putz pitched a perfect ninth for his second save. 
Gerardo Parra had three hits and scored a run and Miguel Montero hit his second homer of the season for the Diamondbacks. 
Diamondbacks manager Kirk Gibson met with his players early Wednesday to alleviate some of the pressure he thought they were feeling. 
“I just kind of reaffirmed some of the things we worked on play the way they’re capa­ble of,” he said of his pregame speech. “Go out and play loose, play aggressively. Have fun playing the game, that’s what we did.” 
Alfonso Soriano hit his third homer of the season and Aramis Ramirez hit his sec­ond for Chicago. 
Ryan Dempster (0-2) gave up five runs — four earned — and 10 hits in seven innings. He struck out seven and did-n’t walk a batter. 
“I made a lot of good pitch­es today,” Dempster said. “For the most part, I like the way I was throwing the ball.” 
After the Cubs tied it in the fourth, Arizona scored three times in the fifth. 
Willie Bloomquist singled to drive home Parra, who led off the inning with a double to right. Bloomquist scored on a defensive lapse by Soriano. 
Young lifted a flyball into the left-field corner, which Soriano tracked to the wall. But the ball glanced off his glove as he reached the yet-to-bloom ivy. The play was scored a double. Young went to third when a relay throw got away from Cubs catcher Geovany Soto, who was charged with an error on the play, and scored on Kelly Johnson’s double. 
The Cubs committed three errors. 
“We don’t play well at times, but we still gave our­selves a chance,” Cubs man­ager Mike Quade said. “We just didn’t do enough things well today to win a ball ­game.” 
Trailing 6-3 in the eighth, the Cubs loaded the bases on a pair of singles and a walk. Colvin bounced out to first base, scoring a run. With two outs and runners on second and third, Arizona reliever Juan Gutierrez struck out Soriano, spurring another round of boos for the embat­tled slugger. 
Galarraga made his debut for Arizona after being acquired in the offseason from Detroit. He retired the first nine Cubs, gave up a sin­gle to Byrd leading off the fourth. 
Ramirez then turned on the first pitch he saw from Galarraga and lofted it into the basket in left-center for his first homer of the season, tying the game at 2. 
The Diamondbacks broke 
on top in a third inning defined by aggressive play by both teams, with varying results. 
Parra led off the frame with a looping drive that landed just beyond the glove of Cubs second baseman Blake DeWitt, who recovered to throw out Parra trying to stretch the hit into a double. 
One batter later, Bloomquist singled and stole second. It was Arizona’s eighth stolen base of the season in five games, the fastest the Diamondbacks have reached that mark in franchise histo­ry. 

Young then followed with a sinking drive to center. Cubs centerfielder Marlon Byrd, in an effort to save the run, raced in and reached for a shoestring catch. He came up short and the ball rolled well behind him. 
NFL 

Judge does not see immediate labor resolution 
union, the lockout of the players business and the 2011 season. were a fully formed labor entity. members of the union’s executive 
Associated Press 

and the antitrust lawsuit against Teams of attorneys from both DeMaurice Smith, the head of the committee prior to dissolution. 
ST. PAUL, Minn.— As she the owners filed here by the play-sides, officials from the now-dis-NFLPA, attended the hearing, Tom Brady, Peyton Manning and wrapped up the five-hour hear-ers. solved union, several NFL players and the players, lawyers and Drew Brees, the three highest ing on the legality of the NFL But the two sides don’t agree and dozens of reporters crowded union officials arrived and profile players named on the law-lockout, the federal judge over-on much these days. the courtroom, but little was departed together in a bus. suit, did not attend. seeing the case said she’d take “a Attorneys for the players said accomplished other than the for-“They’re financing this law-Hall of Famer Carl Eller, the couple of weeks” to rule on the they’re open to talking again. mal launch of the legal process. suit,” Boies said. “They’re saying, lead plaintiff in a separate, simi­players’ request to return to Lawyers for the league hedged on David Boies, a lawyer for the ‘We’re no longer a collective bar-lar case filed by retirees, former work. their eagerness to take Nelson up NFL, argued that the court gaining agent, but we’re going to players and rookies, was also 
U.S. District Judge Susan on her offer, by saying the owners shouldn’t have jurisdiction while continue to do all these things.’“ present. Nelson approved a Richard Nelson, however, urged prefer to be back at the bargain-the National Labor Relations James Quinn, an attorney for motion to consolidate those cases, the two sides not to wait that ing table. Board is considering an unfair the players, dismissed the accu-and attorney Michael Hausfeld — long. The injunction request — a labor charge filed by the league sation that the decertification was on behalf of the Eller group — 
“It seems to me both sides are plea to the judge that the lockout that players didn’t negotiate in a sham, pointing to unanimous took turns with Quinn arguing at risk, and now is a good time to be immediately lifted on the good faith. The NFL’s contention participation in a player vote to against and rebutting Boies. come back to the table,” Nelson grounds that their careers are is that the union’s decertification approve the move. Nelson listened to arguments said, noting her willingness to being irreparably harmed — was was a tactical maneuver and that “It’s not some kind of tactic. It’s from lawyers for the players and facilitate the resumption of talks the sole purpose of Wednesday’s it has the legal right to keep play-the law,” Quinn said. “It’s what the league Wednesday, asking toward a new collective bargain-hearing. ers from working. we’re allowed to do.” questions often and speaking ing agreement that would put pro The court appearance was the Boies claimed players are still Plaintiffs Mike Vrabel, Ben politely but directly while football back on track. first round — call it the first acting like a union, that the NFL Leber, Vincent Jackson, Brian acknowledging her difficulty dis-
Owners and players failed to quarter — between the NFL and Players’ Association is funding Robison and Von Miller were cerning which components of the reach that goal last month, lead-the players in their legal fight the litigation and has set up other joined in court by veterans Tony laws apply to this complicated ing to the decertification of the over the future of the $9 billion services for the players as if it Richardson and Charlie Batch, case. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, 
visit Notre Dame's website: 
http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call 
Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. ——————————————— 

THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA-­enchanting and unforgettable! 
Read this wonderful stage play on Kindle @ Amazon.com, under Books! 
——————————————— Modern Family Quotes 
Phil: 

I love Westerns, the bloodier the better, that is my favorite type of movie - that and anything set against the backdrop of competitive cheerleading. 
——————————————— Claire: We need a game plan, we need to map out exactly what we are going to say, because that is the only way I will be able to hold it together while our babies look at us with judgment and disgust. Phil: That is how they always look at us. ——————————————— 
Phil: 

While Claire watched one of the most highly-acclaimed films of the year, I sat through a badly made schlock-fest, with absolutely no redeeming value - and it was awe­some! ——————————————— Phil: 
Yeah, he gives me a hard time. But that is the deal with a father-in-law. 
The key is I never let him see just how much it devastates me. 
Claire: 
You cannot have two fun parents... You know that kid Liam who wears pajama pants to school and pays for things with a hundred-dollar bill? 
Two fun parents. 
——————————————— 
Give me one shot at my life today. One shot at my life today. I don’t want to be a stranger. I don’t want to be just a passerby. Stand in line wrapped around the world. I don’t want to be just a parasite. Holding on tight. Holding on tight. 
I got this feeling and it’s down in my bones. I got this feeling and it’s burning up my soul. I got to get just one shot, baby one more day. Got to gie me one shot today. I got this feeling just give me one day. ——————————————— 

Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 

Bulls gear up for Celtics, look to secure No. 1 seed 

Boston Celtics in a game that 
Associated Press 
could have a big impact on 
DEERFIELD, Ill. — Joakim the race for the No. 1 seed in Noah has a pretty good idea the Eastern Conference, and what to expect on Thursday he anticipates a charged night. atmosphere at the United 
The Chicago Bulls host the Center. 
“I think it’s going to be a zoo in here on Thursday,” he said. “It’s very exciting.” 
These, indeed, are exciting times in Chicago. 
With 16 wins in 18 games and the No. 1 seed in reach, the Bulls haven’t had it this good since the Michael Jordan championship era. 
They were three games ahead of Miami and Boston at 57 -20 after hanging on to beat Phoenix on Tuesday. A win over the Celtics would all but eliminate them from the race for the top seed. The Bulls 

“A lot of balls have 
would be four cant chunks games ahead of been coming out of my of the season Boston four to due to 
hands. I have to do a 
go in the regu-injuries. 
better job of that.” 
lar season. “You want 
The next to go step by tiebreaker if Joakim Noah step,” said they finished Thibodeau, 
Bulls forward 
were big spenders in free agency, landing Carlos Boozer and adding depth on their bench after failing to sign LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh. 
Even so, most expected them to finish behind Boston, Miami and Orlando. Well, now look at them. 
Derrick Rose is challenging for the MVP award. Thibodeau is a strong coach of the year candidate, and the Bulls are leading the East even though Boozer and Noah have missed signifi­
with identical records would be conference play, and at the moment, the Celtics are 35-12 with the Bulls 34-13 against the East. 
“It means a lot,” veteran forward Luol Deng said. “(The top seed) gives you the homecourt, but also, just hav­ing the best record tells a lot about the kind of season you had.” 
Big things were expected after a major offseason over­haul that came on the heels of back-to-back 41-win sea­sons and first-round playoff exits. 
The Bulls fired coach Vinny Del Negro and replaced him with Tom Thibodeau. They who broke 
Phil Jackson’s 
club record 
for wins by a first-year coach. “You focus on each game. You want to put as many things in your favor as possible. Being the highest seed possible is important. You can’t say that it’s not, but you have to take it step by step.” 
Beating Boston would be a big one. 
Beyond that, though, the Bulls realize they also need to address some issues. 
They were beaten on the boards for the third time in five games Tuesday, although they’re still outrebounding opponents by a league-high 
5.56 per game, and they let a 22-point lead in the second half dwindle to two before pulling out a 97-94 win over the Suns. Noah was a bit out of sync after missing three games with a sprained right ankle, finishing with 12 points and four rebounds. 
“A lot of balls have been coming out of my hands,” he said. “I have to do a better job of that.” 
The Bulls need to do a bet­ter job finishing off oppo ­nents. Besides the late drama with Phoenix, they had some defensive lapses against Toronto in the previous game and struggled to put away the Raptors. 
“It’s a lot of things we need to tighten up,” Deng said. “We all know that. We’re not panicking. The last few games, we’ve got to do a bet­ter job, especially in the sec­ond half. ... It’s stuff that I’m sure we’ll sort it out.” 
This would be a good time, with Boston coming to town. 
Is it a statement game? 
“No,” Thibodeau, the for­mer Celtics assistant, shot back. It is, however, an important one. 
“They’re a very talented team, they’re well-coached,” Thibodeau said. “There’s not anything that we’re doing that they don’t know, and there’s not anything that they’re doing that we don’t know. It’ll come down to how well we can execute and how well they can execute. They’ re the defending Eastern Conference champi­ons. Until someone knocks them off, you’ve got to be ready to compete with them.” 


page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 7, 2011 Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

MLB 

WhiteSoxcomethroughwiththreerunsinthe12th 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The Chicago White Sox committed four errors and were down three runs with two outs in the ninth, facing one of the hottest teams and one of the best closers in the majors. 
So they put five straight men on base and wind up with a 12­inning, 10-7 victory Wednesday over the stunned Kansas City Royals. 
“Crazy game. Very crazy game,” White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. “Both sides. But thank God we win.” 
Carlos Quentin had four hits, including a solo home run in the eighth and a two-run double in the ninth that capped a four-run uprising against Joakim Soria. 
A two-time All-Star, Soria had never allowed four runs in a game in his five-year career, let alone four with two out in the ninth. 
“I never thought this was going to happen ever, Soria give up that many runs with two out,” Guillen said. 
Neither did Ned Yost. 
“Taking a three-run lead into the ninth, you feel pretty good every time Soria comes into the game,” said the Royals manager. “He got two quick outs and then they just kept finding holes. They didn’t really smash the ball. They just kept finding holes.” 
In the 12th, Brent Morel hit a two-run single off Sean O’Sullivan (0-1) for the go-ahead runs as the White Sox broke the Royals’ four-game winning streak. 
The energetic Royals were in position to improve to 5-1 after Soria retired the first two bat­ters on easy grounders. But Alex Rios and Paul Konerko hit RBI singles and Quentin’s two-run double capped a four-run come­back for a 7-6 lead that held up until Kila Ka’aihue’s RBI double off Matt Thornton tied it 7-all and set up the Royals’ third straight extra-inning game. 
Quentin said the White Sox were fully aware of who they were facing in their improbable ninth-inning rally. 
“You’ve got to look at it as the beauty of baseball,” Quentin said. “Sometimes that happens. Guys will lock in. Pitches are made and swings are put on pitches that are proper swings. We’re well aware of what Soria has done in his career. He’s a quality pitcher and today we were fortunate enough to come back.” 
Soria may have been tired. 
“In his defense and he’ll never admit it, he’s worked five of six days,” said Yost. 
Quentin doubled to start the 12th. After a bunt single and an intentional walk, Morel hit a two-run single and Juan Pierre added a sacrifice fly. 
Winner Chris Sale (1-0) went two innings, giving up one hit and striking out two. 
The Royals had won their pre­vious four games all in their final at-bat, and had their chances in this one, too. Kansas City had runners at first and second with one out in the ninth and didn’t score, and put run­ners at the corners with one out in the 11th without getting a run. 
Royals starter Jeff Francis had a six-hit shutout going until Ramon Castro homered on a 3-1 pitch with two outs in the sev­enth. Francis was lifted after Morel singled, and Pierre hit an RBI triple off rookie reliever Tim Collins. 
White Sox starter Mark Buehrle went five innings and gave up five runs. He allowed eight hits and had two strike­outs. 
Alex Gordon had an RBI dou­ble in the first inning and scored on Billy Butler’s single for a 2-0 lead off Buehrle. Elcides Escobar’s RBI double made it 3­0 in the fourth and was followed by Brayan Pena’s RBI single and an RBI ground out by Mike Aviles. 
Quentin homered off Robinson Tejada in the eighth. 
With two outs in the Kansas City eighth, Chris Getz scored from first when left fielder Mark Teahen dropped Mike Aviles’ fly ball for the third Chicago error. 
The White Sox stranded run­ners at first and third in both the fourth and fifth innings. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 7, 2011 
PGA 

Woods seeks ffth Masters 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — There was a time when Tiger Woods would have responded to the perceived slight in the way he knew best — with his clubs. A 65 on Sunday, per­haps, good enough to slip on another green jacket while Ian Poulter waited at the air­port for a flight home. 
Getting even used to be easy when life was so much easier. A thrashing on the golf course usually took care of anyone who challenged the great one’s supremacy, lest they dare open their mouths again. 
Could still happen, of course. Woods tees off Thursday hoping a retooled swing and his intimate knowledge of Augusta National could carry him to a fifth Masters title, and you can’t completely discount the possibility no matter how erratic he’s been. 
More likely, though, is that Poulter was spot on when he said he didn’t see Woods fin­ishing in the top five this week. 
Best clue why? Woods him­self says it’s true. 
“Well, Poulter is always right, isn’t he?” Woods said. 
Sure, the words were spo­ken sarcastically. But the fact they were spoken at all was telling. 
The old Woods would have simply responded to the Englishman’s comments by narrowing his eyes or shak­ing his head. There was nothing to say when his clubs could say it all. 
He dominated Augusta National just by his presence. There was never any need to check his tee time because you could hear it coming. 
“He walked to the range and it was like a freight train arriving,” three-time Masters champion Nick Faldo said. 
For the first time in 12 years Woods is not the favorite to wear the green jacket that goes to the win­ner. Phil Mickelson is, and the wise guys in Vegas don’t even make it close. 
At his peak, bettors could put down $20 to win $30 on Woods in the Masters. This week they can bet $10 and win $100, but even the prospect of a big payoff has­n’t lured them to put a lot of money on Woods. 
“They’ve definitely figured out over the last year and, especially in this tourna ­ment, Tiger is obviously not 
on his game,” said Jay Kornegay, who runs the sports book at the Las Vegas Hilton. 
Woods’ fellow players have figured that out, too, though they are careful to avoid looking as if they’re dancing on the carcass of the Tiger of old. 
Some, like Mickelson, keep quiet, perhaps fearful that the Tiger of old might reap­pear and start snatching majors away from them. Asked Tuesday whether Woods’ problems since his sex scandal erupted might keep him from winning five more majors to break the record of 18 held by Jack Nicklaus, the normally loqua­cious Mickelson clammed up. 
“I don’t have an opinion, no,” Mickelson said. 


The Europeans aren’t near­ly as cautious. Rory McIlroy said in a bylined piece in Sports Illustrated magazine’s “Golf Plus” section earlier this year that Woods was “playing like an ordinary golfer” and that he doubted he could ever dominate again. 
And Poulter said Monday that Woods’ shots were too inconsistent for him to finish in the top five this week — though he later sent out a few tweets saying his words were blown out of propor­tion. 
“Note to self when asked about Tiger: always (B.S.) & say what they want to hear, 
or you will be ridiculed,” Poulter tweeted to his 1 mil-lion-plus followers. 
Just what is wrong with Woods is the subject of debate from the locker room at Augusta National to pubs in Scotland, the birthplace of golf. He insists it is simply a matter of technique and that things will be fine once he gets his swing dialed in, though others believe it runs far deeper than that. 
“He still hasn’t fully come to terms with the fact that he’s not the same person he was before,” said Patrick Wanis, a Los Angeles human behavior and relationship expert. “He still has a sense of shame, a sense of guilt.” 

What is clear is that Woods is a shadow of the player who, 10 years ago, complet­ed the Tiger Slam by winning the Masters and becoming the first person to hold all four professional major championships at the same time. He followed that with another streak after his father died in 2006, winning 18 of 33 tournaments world­wide and had a seven-month stretch without ever losing. 
Now he hasn’t won in more than 500 days and seems more a curiosity to his fellow players than a threat. There’s a new wave of play­ers who are beating him at his own power game and winning the tournaments he used to own. 
Once intimidated, now they’re not even distracted. 
“In the past a lot of guys used up a lot of energy think­ing about Tiger and what he’s doing,” Faldo said. “Now they’re doing their own thing and thinking about what they’re needing to do.” 
That’s not good for Woods, but it is good for golf. As remarkable as his run was, it had to end sometime so new stars could emerge. 
They’re going to win, and they’re going to talk. 
And there seems nothing Woods can do about it. 
NBA 
Miami’s Wade sits out with bruised thigh 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — With a week left in the regular season, Miami guard Dwyane Wade is ailing. 
Wade was held out of the Heat game against the Milwaukee Bucks on Wednesday night because of a bruised right thigh, even though it’s a critical time for Miami in the Eastern Conference playoff chase. The Heat entered the game tied with Boston for the No. 2 spot in the East. 
“He’s still very sore,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “Couple days of rest, we want to make sure he’s as healthy as he can be down the stretch and for the playoffs.” 
James Jones was in the starting lineup in Wade’s usual spot. 
Wade is listed as day-to-day. After Wednesday, Miami will have four regular-season games remaining, including what looms as possibly a critical matchup Sunday at home against the Celtics. 
Wade was injured in the first half of Miami’s win Sunday against the New Jersey Nets. He played in the second half of that game, but needed treatment because of deep soreness Monday and Tuesday. He did not partici­pate in Miami’s shootaround prac­tice Wednesday morning, either. 
The Heat host Charlotte on Friday. 
“If he doesn’t feel like he’s able to go out there and give 100 per­cent, then he should take the rest,” Heat forward LeBron James said. “I don’t think it’s about the Boston game, either. I think it’s about the playoffs. We want him as close to 100 percent as possible before the playoffs start. If he’s ready Friday, he should play. If not, he should sit. If he’s ready Sunday, he should play. If not, he should sit then too.” 


Now Open Tilted Kilt Pub & Eatery 
1032 E. University Dr. Granger, IN 
Full service menu and bar, 32 TV’s, 
All sport packages Bring in any student ID and receive 10% off your food bill 
join our text club: text tkgfans to 74422 
Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Career 
continued from page 20 
Dame’s critics who argue that athletes are not held to the same standard as the rest of the student body. But what about Floyd — no one seems to have his best interests at heart. 
Behind the 6-foot-3, 227 lbs. frame that has had professional scouts drooling for years now, is a young man who made a mis­take. A big one. And it was not his first. 
But what good does it do to cut him loose and suspend him for the entire 2011 season? Not to speculate what Floyd would do if that turns out to be his punishment, but there is a strong possibility that he would opt for the NFL Supplemental Draft, rather than finishing his degree and hurting his draft stock by sitting out a year. It is important for Floyd’s recovery process that both academics and athletics are readily avail­able and continue to be a part of his future. Why put him into a corner and make him break the promise he made to his mother that he would get a degree before moving on? 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said last week that Floyd has shown remorse and realizes he needs to seek help. 
“He’s already taken definitive action,” he said. “I’m not going to get into his personal life, but I think you can read between the lines. He’s already reached out to make that happen in a very positive way. He understands that he needs to be educated, and he’s started that process.” 
Some will say Floyd has only taken action in order to lessen the blow from the Office of Residential Life. Maybe that’s true. But the point is, he is seek­ing help. Hopefully that help, whatever form it is coming in, will get Floyd back on the right track. 
Kelly seems to be giving Floyd the support he needs during this time, while using the incident as a learning tool for the rest of the team. 
“It’s college and we want kids to make good decisions,” Kelly said. “Alcohol never seems to be a conduit for good decisions. As a football coach and somebody in college athletics, I think we all look at it the same way.” 
So, before making a judgment on what Floyd’s punishment should be, think about the remorseful receiver and what this decision means for his future. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Run 
continued from page 20 
coach Mik Aoki said. “It was nice to see.” 
Senior infielder Mick Doyle reached base on a throwing error and advanced to sec­ond on a fielding error. Freshman infielder Eric Jagielo reached base via a fielder’s choice, and rookie first baseman Trey Mancini stroked a double down the leftfield line to plate both runs. 
The sloppy play by Western Michigan (14-16, 3-0 MAC) continued, as Mancini reached third base on a miss-timed throw to the Broncos cutoff man. Senior outfielder Herman Petzold took advan­tage by flying out to deep right field, good enough for a sacrifice had a lot of offensive ability,” Aoki said. “He’s produced in really big moments. He’s [a] kid who has developed and continued to get better. I think you can say the same thing about Eric Jagielo.” 
Jagielo and Mancini have handled the pressure of bat­ting in the three and four spots in the Irish lineup with more poise than their fresh­man standing would suggest. The two lead Notre Dame in slugging percentage, hits, RBIs and doubles. The rook­ies have also combined for six of Notre Dame’s seven home runs on the season. 
Sophomore right-hander Adam Norton tossed five innings while giving up only two earned runs to improve to 2-1 on the year. Aoki said Norton gives the Irish a com­petitive advantage with his versatility. When Norton is not start-
fly to drive Mancini home. While far  “[Mancini’s] a kid we all thought had a lot of  ing on the mound, the o u t f i e l d e r  
from  robust,  offensive ability. He’s  can  serve  as  
Notre Dame’s offense has come alive  produced in really big moments.”  a designated hitter or play in the out- 
over  the  last  field.  
four  games.  Mik Aoki  “That is  a  
Despite  a  2-2  Irish coach  good  thing  

record over that stretch, the Irish (12­14-1, 3-3 Big East) have averaged close to six runs per game. 
The offense generally takes time to catch up to the level of a team’s pitching, especial­ly for teams that compete in cold-weather environments such as Notre Dame. Mancini has disregarded that rule of thumb, as the freshman leads the squad in nearly every offensive category. 
“He’s a kid we all thought for us,” Aoki 
said. “It 
allows us to 
get a guy who is swinging the bat well, but give us the flexibility to put him in the game as a pitcher.” 
Looking to improve upon its 4-2 home record, Notre Dame will take the field Friday through Sunday in a weekend series against Connecticut. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Butler 
continued from page 20 
“I don’t know much about Butler but as always, we expect teams to have their best games against us so we have to come out swinging,” Winter said. 
The Irish have not taken anything for granted this sea­son, particularly after a few tough losses during spring break that left the team dis­appointed but ready to com­pete. Since then Notre Dame has been honing in on the details and improving signifi­cantly, especially in the pitch­ing realm. Offensively the Irish are rolling, with several seasoned batters who have led the team to totals of nine, nine, seven, 12 and seven runs in its previous five games. 
That continued offensive momentum will be key tonight as the Irish take on Butler at home at 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 

Belles continue winning streak 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Winning big is becoming business as usual for the Belles. They’ve won eight of their last 11, and seven of those eight wins have been by five matches or more. Their matchup last night was no exception, as Saint Mary’s bested Olivet College, 7-2. 
The Belles (8-5, 2-1 MIAA) got after the Comets (8-5, 1-3) right away, and did not let up until the final point was played. Singles play has been a strength for Saint Mary’s all season. The Belles won five of the six singles matches, includ­ing a dominating 6-0, 6-1 vic­tory by senior Mary Therese Lee at No. 6 singles. 
Another highlight from the singles side was in the No. 4 spot, where senior captain Franca Peluso won the last nine games to win 6-2, 6-0. Peluso missed much of the early season due to injury, but returned in mid-March and has now won three singles matches in a row. 
Freshmen have also played a large role in Saint Mary’s recent success. Four of the Belles’ 10 roster players are freshmen, and their growth has been very noticeable over the course of the season. A prime example of this growth is the recent play of freshman Mary Catherine Faller. Faller has been a regular in both sin­gles and doubles at the No. 3 position, and has made an immediate impact in both. Last night, Faller teamed up with senior Jessica Kosinski to win 8-4 in doubles, and then turned around to win a 6-2, 6­2 straight set decision. The two wins marked her third straight singles victory and her fifth straight in doubles. 
While the Belles have been firing on all cylinders lately, they won’t have much time to recuperate before they take to the courts again. The team will be on the road all of this week­end, as they first head to Bethel College for a non-con­ference showdown Friday. Saint Mary’s will then travel to Holland, Mich., to take on con­ference rival Hope College. The Flying Dutchmen are undefeat­ed in MIAA play, and will be an important match moving for­ward for the Belles. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 7, 2011 

Reynolds 
continued from page 20 
the doubles side of competition in the past twelve matches. 
The close location has pinned the two teams against each other multiple times in the past. While the Irish hold the latest victory, a 5-2 win on Feb. 21, 2010, the Wildcats (11-5) lead the series 24-11. Today, the Irish hope to change that. 
“As a team we definitely need to play smart and compete hard, especially against Northwestern because we have such a rivalry with them,” Frilling said. “I think we did that well last weekend, and as we get closer to finishing the regular season, it’s important for us to keep that drive up.” 
Notre Dame must carry a strong force of momentum as they face Northwestern, who holds a 7-1 record at home and brings a six-match winning streak to the match after recently taking down Wisconsin (7-0), Ohio State (5­
2) and Penn State (7-0). Of those three, the Irish have only faced Wisconsin this season, as they beat the Badgers (6-1) on Feb. 13. 
The Wildcats bring four nationally ranked singles play­ers to the table, including sen­ior Maria Mosolova, who is ranked 16th in the country. Mosolova is a three-time All-American with 13 straight wins in singles play and was named this week’s Big Ten Player of the Week. 
Facing Mathews and Frilling at the No. 1 doubles spot will be the pair of sophomore Linda Abu Mushrefova and freshman Nida Hamilton, who rank sev­enth as a pair nationally with a 12-3 record over the season. 
Mosolova certainly brings a threat, but is still a force that can be reckoned with. Frilling defeated her in the tour season in the semifinals of the USTA/ITA Midwest Championships 6-4, 6-2. 
“I’ve played Maria a lot, so I know what to expect. It’s going to be a good match nonethe­less,” Frilling said. 
Including today’s contest against the Wildcats, the Irish have only three matches left before the NCAA champi­onships begin. Play in Evanston begins at 4 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles look to recover losses 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Coming off back -to -back losses against conference foe Alma Saturday, the Belles look to capture a pair of wins in their second MIAA double­header of the season. 
When it squares off against Trine (14 -5), Saint Mary’s (10 -5, 0-2 MIAA) has a chance to improve on its most recent outings in which over­all good play was nullified by short stretches of offensive explosions by the opposition. 
In their 10 -6 loss in the first game against Alma, the Belles allowed four runs each in two innings. In the second game, the Belles surrendered three runs each in two more big innings, as they fell by a score of 7-1. 
To ensure that they are on top of their game as they try to add to their win column, the Belles head into the matchup with a special focus. 
“We go in there knowing what we have to do, knowing 
our strengths and making sure [we] have good commu­nication, ” junior pitcher Monica Palicki said. 
That communication will be crucial against the Thunder, as Saint Mary’s will have to adjust to its opponent’s style in a number of ways, Belles coach Erin Sullivan noted. 
“They like to play a lot of small ball, a lot of suicide squeezes to try to score their runs,” she said. “Their first pitcher throws very hard, so we are just preparing for a little bit faster pitching and we are preparing our defense for working on a lot of small ball situations in practice.” 
The doubleheader marks the midway point of a confer­ence road trip of sorts, as the Belles traveled to Alma last weekend and will travel to Aidan on Saturday. Despite the grueling schedule that includes six away games in the span of one week, Palicki says the Belles still manage to enjoy themselves. 
“The schoolwork [is a chal­lenge] when we get really busy, ” Palicki said. “But being on this team, we have to learn how to do time man­agement, so I think that helps us a lot. [The traveling] is actually kind of fun — it is like team bonding on the way there and then team bonding on the way back.” 
If team unity improves as a result of their travelling, the Belles will be better for it. Palicki said the team’s unity is especially important to her when she is on the mound, as it gives her added confidence and allows all of Saint Mary’s to shift its focus on how to best the opposition. 
“Being a pitcher, I know that my team is behind me and that we are going to have great defense and good 
offense, and then [we can focus] on finding their weak­ness and bring those out so we can capitalize on that and [score] on them,” she said. 
Palicki leads the Belles with a 3.32 ERA this season and brings a 5-2 record into the upcoming contest. Freshman pitcher Callie Selner has fall­en right into line behind the veteran, as she carries a 3.55 ERA to go along with her 5-3 record. 
Both pitchers look to receive support from a Saint Mary ’s offense that has haunted opposing pitching with a .363 batting average, while scoring 106 runs through the first 15 games of the season. Despite some ­what meager offensive out­puts in their two most recent contests, the Belles remain confident they can use the experience gained in every game to ultimately improve their play. 
“We are learning a lot more about ourselves and I think that we are a great team,” Palicki said. “We are a young team, but we have connected pretty great and we have found what works for us, and how to keep that going — how to take things from past games and take them into the next games.” 
The Belles take the field looking to capture their first conference win of the season against Trine. The first pitch of today’s doubleheader is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
running today. You have to remind him every time — it’s not 
Blue-Gold 
continued from page 20 
recorded a team-high 133 tack­les last season, has been partici­pating in practice, but the coach­ing staff has 
been cautious because of the knee.  “[Gray’s focus] is getting better. He did a nice job  end Aaron Lynch have already made  
“[Te’o] took some seven-on-seven reps today,” Kelly  running today. You have to remind him every time — it’s not muscle  an impact as early enrollees for the Irish. “It has not  
said. “We want to devel­op him over the next five  memory for him. You still have to remind him, but it is getting closer.  been a situation where every time they are in there we say,  
days where, if  ‘Let’s do this,’  
we wanted to play him, we certainly could  Brian Kelly Irish coach  Kelly said. “They can run our defense  
in the spring  and certainly  

game. I don’t think we will, but they are going to be able to do it we want to develop that too.” in the fall … Both of those guys 
The development of junior in the fall will be able to line up running back Jonas Gray has and compete, but we will only do caught Kelly’s attention recently. it if they can play full speed and Due to the knee injury to fresh-not have to think.” man Cameron Roberson, Gray Notre Dame hosts its annual and sophomore Cierre Wood are Pro Day today before hitting the the only two active running field for practice Friday morning. backs under scholarship. 
“[Gray’s focus] is getting bet-Contact Andrew Owens at ter,” Kelly said. “He did a nice job aowens@nd.edu 
muscle memory yet for him. You still have to remind him, but it is getting closer.” 
Despite competing in their first semester of practices at Notre Dame, linebacker Ishaq Williams 
and defensive 


Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, April 7, 2011 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Heading outdoors 

University still game, Gray stepping up 
Te’o out for spring deciding Floyd’s fate 
Since the morning of March
By ANDREW OWENS 
20, when junior receiver
Associate Sports Editor 

Michael Floyd was arrested for operating a vehicle while intox-Notre Dame practiced outdoors 
icated, there have been two Wednesday for the first time dur­
main schools ing the spring season, giving Irish 
of thought coach Brian Kelly a different view 
on the inci­of his squad as the 82nd annual 
dent and his Blue-Gold exhibition quickly 
subsequent approaches. 
punishment. “You can stretch the field a lot 
One group further [when practicing out-
wants the doors],” Kelly said. “We can do 
future NFL some things in our passing game 
talent to 
Andrew Owens 
and defensively, just working on 

face virtual-tracking the ball in the air. Having 
ly no sus-Associate more space out there obviously 
pension Sports Editor allows us the freedom to not have 
because to worry that every time a ball is in 
they are the air, someone is going to run 
concerned about what the into somebody.” 
team’s record would be without Kelly said he does not expect 
him. The other camp wants to sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o, 
see the University make an who underwent a knee scope in 
example out of Floyd and end the offseason, to play in the Blue-
his collegiate football career, in Gold game April 16. Te’o, who 
order to put a muzzle on Notre
TOM LA/The Observer 

Junior running back Jonas Gray receives a handoff in spring practice March 26. Gray see BLUE-GOLD/page 18 is expected to have a more prominent role in the Irish line-up next year. see CAREER/page 17 



ND SOFTBALL 

Captain Johnson continues to lead Notre Dame with hits 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Looking to extend a five-game win streak, the Irish return home today to carry the momentum from Tuesday’s rout of Wisconsin into a doubleheader against Butler. 
Though Wisconsin was not one of the toughest competi­tors of the season for Notre Dame (22-7), the team was able to overcome a slow start and come away with a 9-1 vic­tory. 
“You can never take any team for granted,” freshman pitcher Laura Winter said. “We have to go out thinking they are the best so that we bring our best game to the table. I didn’t come out sharp but the team did and we were able to bury them.” 
The Irish struggled to gen­erate offense at the outset of the game, but the drought was broken by reigning Big East player of the week and senior captain Heather Johnson, who knocked home Notre Dame’s first run in the third inning. Johnson not only extended her 12-game hitting streak, but kicked off a flurry of runs for the Irish including a three-run homer by junior infielder Dani Miller and con­secutive triples by senior 
BASEBALL 

Broncos’ errors boost ND 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
In a sharp contrast to the first half of the season, Notre Dame capitalized on its oppo­nent’s mistakes in the field and the pitching made it stand as the Irish took down 

Western  Michigan  6 -2  
Wednesday at  Frank  Eck  
Stadium.  

After plating a run in the top half of the opening frame, the Broncos committed two errors in the Irish half that led to three runs. 
“They were a little sloppy with the baseball early, and we were able to put up that three-run inning early and answer the early run,” Irish 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

Sophomore pitcher Adam Norton winds up in the 6-2 Irish see RUN/page 17 win against Western Michigan Wednesday. 

infielder Katie Fleury and 
s op ho m or e  c a t ch e r  A m y  
Buntin.  
“We definitely had  a  rally  

going and we took advantage of their errors by taking extra bases when we could,” Winter said. 
Notre Dame was propelled to the victory by the offensive team effort, which the squad will look to continue tonight against Butler (18-11), a team that has earned some acco­lades of its own this past week. Butler junior first base­man Erin Falkenberry recent­ly became the school’s all-time home run leader and was named Horizon League co-player of the week. The Bulldogs are also coming off a five-game win streak, with all five having occurred on the road. Notre Dame will hope to end that series tonight. 
see BUTLER/page 17 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish prepare to face local rival Wildcats 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 20 Irish take the court earlier than usual this week, traveling to the Combe Indoor Tennis Center in Evanston, Ill. to face No. 16 Northwestern in a midweek match. 
Notre Dame (11-8) is com­ing off a two-match winning streak as it heads into the contest, as the team defeated Texas A&M 6-1 last Saturday and Long Beach State 5-2 on Friday. 
Contributing largely to the two wins was junior Shannon Mathews, who was named Big East Player of the Week for the first time in her career Wednesday. She added wins in both singles and dou­bles in the two matches against Long Beach State and Texas A&M. She now stands at 14-2 at the No. 2 singles position, and the pair of jun­ior Kristy Frilling and Mathews ranks 22nd in the country with a record of 15-3 in doubles play. 
Frilling, Mathews and freshman Jennifer Kellner hold nationally ranked posi­tions at 3rd, 63rd and 105th, respectively. The three have helped lead the team on the singles front, while the junior doubles pair has added win to 
see MATHEWS/page 18 


page 2 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 7, 2011 
Young Irish must seize the moment 
Three years ago, I was lucky enough to cover the 2008 Frozen Four in Denver. I was just a lowly freshman sports writer, in awe that The Observer would actu­ally pay for me to go to an awe­some city and watch hockey. 
By now, every Notre Dame hockey fan knows how that weekend played out. In the national semifinal, the Irish beat Michigan 5-4 in overtime to earn — at least prior to this weekend — the biggest win in the program’s history. Two nights later in the cham­pionship game, Notre Dame came up short against Nathan Gerbe and Boston College, falling 4-1. 
Even though the Irish came up short, I — along with the entire Irish fan base — was hopeful for the future of the program. Given its trajectory, I was fully preparing to cover the team in Washington, D.C. in the 2009 Frozen Four. 
Despite a record-setting 2009 regular season and CCHA tournament champi­onship, the No. 1-seeded Irish fell to Bemidji State in the first round of the tournament. The months of hard work and success were wiped away in a game that Notre Dame may well have won nine out of 10 times. 
The next season was basi­cally a four-month long ver­sion of the Bemidji State game. The Irish roster was loaded with talent, but for whatever reason, the team never clicked, and the season ended with a losing record and a first-round CCHA tour­nament loss to Ohio State. 
The past two seasons have been living proof of something that many, including myself, lost sight of in the optimism following the 2008 playoff run: It’s really, really difficult to make it to the Frozen Four. 
Even for the biggest and most storied programs, the Frozen Four should not be an annual expectation. Denver, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Boston University and Boston College 
— 
along with their 27 com­bined national championships 

— 
will be watching this week­end’s games from home. 


Notre Dame learned in 2009 and 2010 that anything from a fluke loss to unex­plained intangibles can sub­marine a potential champi­onship run. 
It’s this uncertainty that makes this weekend all the more important for Notre Dame. Sure, with all the youth on the roster, the pro­gram will certainly have championship-caliber talent for the foreseeable future. But, as the past two years have shown, you just never know. Notre Dame is two wins away from its first national championship, and the Irish need to seize the moment now. 

Much has been made of the fact that Notre Dame has made this run to the Frozen Four with 12 freshmen on the roster. Rookies T.J. Tynan and Anders Lee — who will prob­ably need more closet space after all the hardware they picked up at Sunday’s team awards banquet — are already among the top play­ers in college hockey. Whether or not the Irish “should” be playing in Saint Paul this weekend or not, the fact is they are, and there’s no excuse not to take advan­tage. 
Fortunately for the Irish, the upperclassmen are in a unique position to offer advice to all the freshmen. Seniors Ben Ryan, Calle Ridderwall and Ryan Guentzel were all freshmen in Denver three years ago. They know that the younger players cannot afford to assume that there are defi­nitely more Frozen Fours to come. 
There were times even this season when it looked like a return to college hockey’s biggest stage just wasn’t in the cards. In my prediction for the first two rounds, I said the team appeared to be “one year away.” 
This team showed in the regional in Manchester, N.H. two weeks ago that they are definitely not one year away. Winning on back-to-back days in virtual road games against local teams Merrimack and New Hampshire, the Irish proved they clearly have the talent, chemistry and attitude to win it all this year. Once you get down to four teams, it’s just a matter of how the puck bounces. 
Throughout my four years at The Observer, I’ve watched football games from the Notre Dame Stadium press box, been on the field at Yankee Stadium and seen an Irish bowl win in person. For some reason, though, whenever anyone asks me what my favorite event I’ve covered was, the answer is always that Frozen Four three years ago. With smart coaching, a few timely plays and maybe one or two lucky bounces, this weekend has the chance to be even better. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

Bulldogs await Notre Dame 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
When the Irish first reached the Frozen Four in 2008, then-freshmen Calle Ridderwall, Ben Ryan and Ryan Guentzel entered the Pepsi Center with wide eyes. Now seniors, their eyes display focus instead — a focus they feel is crucial to pass on to Notre Dame’s 12 fresh­men if the Irish are to claim the program’s first-ever national championship. 
“[We’ve] just got to let [the freshmen] know it’s just anoth­er game,” Ridderwall said. “We’ve got to keep our eyes on the prize — we’re trying to win a championship, we’re not just going there just to have a great experience. I think it’s impor­tant to realize that we’re still playing for a championship and these are just two playoff games.” 
Notre Dame (25-13-5) will face Minnesota-Duluth (24-10­
6) Thursday in a matchup that seemed improbable just two weeks ago. The Irish backed into the NCAA Tournament, los­ing two games in the CCHA playoffs by a combined six goals — a far less-than-auspi­cious start to playoff hockey. When Notre Dame gave up two early goals to Merrimack in its first-round game, a Frozen Four berth seemed out of the question — yet the Irish clawed their way back past the Warriors and then past New Hampshire to reach Saint Paul. 
“We had a bad weekend in Detroit,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Every time this team has had a bad perform­ance they’ve shown the resiliency to come back and play well. It was a new season in the NCAA tournament — a new life.” 
On the other side of the bracket, the Bulldogs had to face a hot Union team and then a matchup with the tourna­ment’s overall No. 1 seed Yale 
— yet they won each game by a comfortable two-goal margin to reach the Frozen Four. Now, the two meet on college hock­ey’s biggest stage just 150 miles from Duluth. The potential home-field advantage won’t intimidate the Irish, however. 
“Some of the guys mentioned it last week,” Jackson said. “They’d rather play in a loud environment with a jam-packed house than a half-empty build­ing whether home or away.” 
That jam-packed house will pose challenges of its own, as the sold-out Xcel Energy Center (home to the NHL’s Minnesota Wild) seats over 18,000 com­pared to the 3,000 who usually pack the Joyce Center for Notre Dame home games. On the other hand, the Irish have played in a number of large arenas, including Ralph Engelstad Arena (capacity 11,640) and Joe Louis Arena (capacity 20,066). 
“Just knowing you can play in big games and having that con­fidence is huge when you go into a series like this in the Frozen Four,” Ridderwall said. “All you can do out there is just play your game. We’ve prac­ticed all year — we know what we can do. We just can’t get carried away with everything going on around the ice.” 
Literally one or two games away from the end of their Notre Dame careers, Ridderwall and the other sen­iors have had the opportunity to reflect on the new heights to which they have taken the pro­gram. 
“It’s very special to be in the Frozen Four half the seasons you’re in college,” Ridderwall said. “It’s very exciting.” 
Jackson hopes his seniors will use that reflection to better their younger teammates in their quest for a title that has thus far eluded the Irish. 
“I think it’s certainly a help that they can let [the freshmen] know about all the distractions that take place,” he said. “It’s going to be a circus in a lot of ways, so to make sure they stay focused and don’t get distracted by all the things going on around them is really impor­tant.” 
If Notre Dame can defeat the Bulldogs, it will take on the winner of the Michigan-North Dakota game. The Irish have faced both the Wolverines (28­10-4) and Fighting Sioux (32-8­
3) this season. Notre Dame went 1-2 against Michigan, with the lone win coming in Ann Arbor. The teams’ most recent meeting was March 19 when the Wolverines won 4-2 in Detroit in the CCHA third-place game. Notre Dame took an early-season road trip to Grand Forks, dropping the first game to the Sioux but respond­ing with a hard-fought tie in the second game. 
When asked if his team’s familiarity with either possible national championship oppo­nent was an advantage, Jackson could do nothing but give a wry smile and shake his head. 
“I’m not worrying about it,” he said. “It’s one game. We don’t win it, it doesn’t matter. We have to win [Thursday], and that’s all that matters at this point.” 
Yet again Jackson taught focus, and his team seems to have heard him. With 12 fresh­men leading the way, it has been up to the seniors to preach the gospel according to Jackson — and they have been its apostles. 
“I think we have to focus on Minnesota-Duluth,” Ridderwall said. “I don’t think we really have to focus on what’s going to happen when we get up there 
— what nice hotels they’re going to be, how big a rink it’s going to be. I think we just need to keep focusing on Minnesota-Duluth.” 
Notre Dame faces the Bulldogs at 5 p.m. Thursday in the Xcel Energy Center. The game will be televised on ESPN2 and ESPN3.com. The national championship game will take place in the same venue and will be televised live at 7 p.m. Saturday on ESPN and ESPN3.com 
Contact Allan Joseph ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Man of the hour 
Sophomore goaltender endures up-and-down season, rebounds with strong postseason performance 
the USHL Prospect/All-Star despite the arrival of talented 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

Game. recruits Summerhays and 
Sports Writer 

Rogers. Tradition of greatness During Notre Dame’s bounce­
There’s a very good reason that That success eventually led the back campaign, Johnson enjoyed Mike Johnson leads Notre Dame Verona, Wisc. native to Notre a season that saw both its ups — onto the ice before every game he Dame and coach Jeff Jackson’s a 28-save performance in a 2-1 plays. program. By putting on the pads win over then-No. 1 Boston 
He is the goalie — a position as an Irish goalie, Johnson was College on Oct. 23 — and its that, in postseason hockey, can stepping into the skates of two of downs, sprinkled throughout the either carry a team to a champi-the best goalies in Notre Dame conference schedule. It became onship or prove its ultimate history in Jordan Pearce and All-evident to Jackson that his first-downfall. This means that, American David Brown, whose choice goalie was struggling with whether he likes it or not, as careers spanned the 2004-09 consistency in big games, some-Johnson goes, so go the Irish. seasons. Despite his youth, thing the coach attributed partly Luckily for No. 3 Notre Dame, the Johnson saw notable time in his to Johnson’s tendency to over-sophomore relishes the spotlight. freshman season in 2009-10, think. 
“I like the pressure that comes making 28 starts and being “I think part of it is he wants to with the position,” Johnson said. selected to the CCHA all-rookie do well so badly and that is a fac­“I also like the fact that I’m on team in a subpar Notre Dame tor,” Jackson said. “But I also the ice all the time and can make campaign. Johnson said he was think he thinks too much some-an impact in every game.” surprised by the early playing times when he plays. When he’s 
It takes a special, almost quirky time. in the zone, as they call it, he’s mentality — for example, “I didn’t expect to play so much focused on the environment and Johnson eats “a banana before early,” Johnson said. “I knew that the process — just about making every game,” — to play a position if I worked hard I was going to the save and trying to control the that is among the most high-pres-get my chance, and it came a lit-rebound.” sure and mentally fragile in tle sooner than I expected which Eventually, Johnson’s some-sports. While all other players was awesome. I’m a competitor, what erratic play opened the skate on and off the ice in shifts, and I always want to be in there. door for Summerhays to crack the goalie remains on the ice, It was a really good experience into the lineup in a handful of key responsible for every shot put on for me to get a year under my CCHA series. Johnson and net. The net minder needs an belt so early.” Summerhays split time in Notre entirely different mindset and One reason for Johnson’s quick Dame’s final four regular-season skill set from a forward or acclimation to the college game is series. Johnson took the demo­defenseman, but Johnson said the presence of Jackson as a tion of sorts as a chance to rest the position was something he teacher and mentor. A former up for playoff hockey. went into without much thought. goalie himself during his playing “I think it was a break, both 
“I played street hockey when I days, Jackson has a hands-on physically and mentally,” he said. was younger and always played influence in the play of his “You know, Steven earned that goalie,” he said. “I kind of liked goalies; something that Johnson job. He’s worked really hard this watching the goalies when I said elevates his game. year, and he deserves to get in watched hockey, so it was one of “It’s huge. [He and I] work one-there and play. It was great to see those things that I just sort of fell on-one all the time, and some-him do well. It was really great into, I guess.” times me and [freshmen goalies] for me to take it easy physically 
After learning the game on the Steven Summerhays and Joe and mentally toward playoffs.” ponds in Wisconsin, Johnson Rogers go out there with him and Though the two competed for eventually set his sights on play-we work on things we need to get playing time in some of the ing the game at a higher level in better at,” Johnson said. “He’s biggest games of the Irish season, be able to watch him every day in incredible. I’m excited and I junior hockey and at the colle-full of insight, and he knows a lot Summerhays said his relationship practice has made me a better know the team’s excited to get up giate level. After one season with about the position. It’s helped me with the elder Johnson is close on goaltender. there.” the St. Louis Bandits of the NAHL mentally.” and off the ice. “On and off the ice, me and Entering the national semifinal in 2007-08, he moved onto the “I think Johnson’s one of the Johnson are really close, it’s not against Minnesota-Duluth, USHL with the Cedar Rapids Splitting time top goalies in all of college hock-just that we work together, it’s Johnson said he understands the RoughRiders for the 2008-09 sea-Coming off a surprisingly suc-ey, not just the CCHA, and last that in practice we’re both really importance of seizing the oppor­son. With the RoughRiders, cessful rookie campaign, Johnson weekend he showed that he is big competitors and we can push tunity on the national stage. Johnson enjoyed a breakout sea-entered the 2010-11 season as one of the top goalies in college each other every day to get bet-Notre Dame’s current senior class son, posting 25 wins and starting the apparent starter between the hockey,” Summerhays said. “To ter.” played in the Frozen Four in for the North Division squad in pipes from the opening game be able to split time with him and 2008, but endured a disappoint-
Frozen asset ing first-round exit in 2009 and 
Johnson responded to the pla-missed postseason play in 2010. toon situation in a big way in the “The seniors had told us how postseason, wresting control of they made it in their freshman the starting job with his experi-year and they hadn’t made it ence and — after a disappointing back since,” Johnson said. “We CCHA Championship in Detroit — knew that this opportunity does-by turning in his best perform-n’t come around often, so we ances of the season in the NCAA needed to take advantage of it.” Regional in Manchester, N.H. Though the Frozen Four is full Johnson turned in a dazzling per-of traditional powers this season, formance in overtime of Notre including nine-time title winner Dame’s 4-3 win over Merrimack Michigan and seven-time winner and followed that up with per-North Dakota, Johnson said haps his best game of the season Notre Dame’s underdog mentality against New Hampshire in the served it well in the regional Regional Final. Johnson’s 37 round. saves earned him Regional MVP “Going into the tournament, I honors, and the sophomore said don’t think we felt a lot of pres-confidence was key in his per-sure on us. Everyone was kind of formance. overlooking us,” he said. “But we 
“I think the confidence and the knew how good we could be. The excitement from the Merrimack guys in the locker room know game just carried over,” he said. that we could be the best team in “I was just ‘playing.’ It was like I the country. I think we showed was out there on the pond when I that we can play with the big was eight years old, just playing. I guns of college hockey, and that wasn’t thinking about anything. just boosted our confidence in We had no pressure on us.” knowing that we can play two 
Playing his best hockey of the games in a row.” season, Johnson gets to live out If the Irish can once more win one of his childhood dreams by two games in a row, then playing in the Frozen Four, some-Johnson, the young gun who’s thing made all the more sweet undergone a benching and won a after enduring ups and downs in regional MVP in the same season, the regular season. will reach a plateau that no Irish 
“I’ve wanted to go to the goalie has before — a national Frozen Four my whole life,” championship. Johnson said. “It’s always been a dream of mine, and to be able to Contact Chris Allen at go there this year is absolutely callen10@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 7, 2011 
Notre Dame Notre Dame’s key players 
Record: 25-13-5 
USCHO: 9 USA Today: 4 
2010-11 Schedule 






Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 5 
2011 NCAA Frozen Four 
How they got here Defeated Denver 6-1 in Midwest Regional final Top scorers Matt Frattin (36 goals, 24 assists) Corban Knight (14 goals, 30 assists) Jason Gregoire (25 goals, 18 assists) Evan Trupp (17 goals, 24 assists) Brad Malone (16 goals, 24 assists)  Between the pipes Aaron Dell (1.82 GAA, .924 save percentage) By the numbers Goals per game: 4.1 Goals against per game: 2.1 Power play percentage: 23.4 Penalty kill percentage: 85.9 Shorthanded goals: 11 Power play goals: 52 Frozen Four history 19th appearance  How they got here Defeated Colorado College 2-1 in West Regional final. Top scorers Carl Hagelin (18 goals, 30 assists) Louie Caporusso (11 goals, 19 assists) Matt Rust (5 goals, 20 assists) Jon Merrill (7 goals, 17 assists) Scooter Vaughan (13 goals, 10 assists)  Between the pipes Shawn Hunwick (2.26 GAA, .922 save percentage) By the numbers Goals per game: 3.4 Goals against per game: 2.3 Power play percentage: 18.9 Penalty kill percentage: 87.1 Shorthanded goals: 8 Power play goals: 33 Frozen Four history 24th appearance  
How they got here Defeated Yale 5-3 in East Regional final. Top scorers Jack Connolly (17 goals, 41 assists) Justin Fontaine (22 goals, 33 assists) Mike Connolly (27 goals, 26 assists) J.T. Brown (15 goals, 19 assists) Travis Oleksuk (13 goals, 18 assists)  Between the pipes Kenny Reiter (2.29 GAA, .914 save percentage) By the numbers Goals per game: 3.4 Goals against per game: 2.6 Power play percentage: 22.5 Penalty kill percentage: 81.8 Shorthanded goals: 7 Power play goals: 46 Frozen Four history Fourth appearance  How they got here Defeated New Hampshire 2-1 in Northeast Regional final Top scorers T.J. Tynan (22 goals, 31 assists) Anders Lee (24 goals, 20 assists) Ryan Guentzel (6 goals, 31 assists) Billy Maday (10 goals, 17 assists) Ben Ryan (6 goals, 18 assists)  Between the pipes Mike Johnson (2.57 GAA, .906 save percentage) By the numbers Goals per game: 3.4 Goals against per game: 2.7 Power play percentage: 16.3 Penalty kill percentage: 81.7 Shorthanded goals: 12 Power play goals: 33 Frozen Four history Second appearance  



The seniors, who were freshmen on Notre Dame’s 2008 Frozen Four team, know what to expect this weekend and can prepare the freshmen for the experience. The Frozen Four is more about cool heads and getting bounces than anything else. Still playing the underdog, Notre Dame’s loose­ness from two weeks ago carries over — as 
does Mike Johnson’s superb play in net — and the Irish leave Saint Paul with the pro­gram’s first national championship. 
Notre Dame 3, Minnesota-Duluth 1 Notre Dame 4, North Dakota 3 (OT) 

Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

This year, Irish coach Jeff Jackson has had to talk about his freshmen after seemingly every game. This weekend, though, it’s going to be about the seniors. Ben Ryan, Ryan Guentzel and, most especially, Calle Ridderwall will step up in the second Frozen Four of their careers. Expect to hear techno blasting 
Saturday when Ridderwall puts the Irish past Michigan, just like 2008 — except this time for the title. 
Notre Dame 5, Minnesota-Duluth 3 Notre Dame 3, Michigan 2 

Chris Allen 
Sports Writer 
Reason would dic­tate that North Dakota will take home the champi­onship Saturday. They are the deepest, most experienced, most tal­ented team left in the field. It is a good thing, then, that Notre Dame’s young roster hasn’t been around the college game long enough to listen to reason. Notre Dame’s 12 freshmen become 

instant legends in front of our eyes, rea­son takes a backseat, and the Irish win their first title. 
Notre Dame 2, Minnesota-Duluth 1 Notre Dame 4, North Dakota 3 

Sam Gans 
Sports Writer 
The experience of Notre Dame’s senior class from 2008’s Frozen Four will lead the Irish to victory in the semifinals, as the upperclassmen will help keep the freshmen calm and loose. But Saturday’s likely opponent, North Dakota, has great offense, strong defense, and superb goaltending. And their 12-1 combined 
margin of victory in the Tournament’s first two rounds shows that, quite frankly, they’re the nation’s best team. 
Notre Dame 4, Minnesota-Duluth 2 North Dakota 5, Notre Dame 2 


page 6 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 7, 2011 
Talented Minnesota-Duluth finally breaks through 
Dangerous first line of Connolly, Connolly and Fontaine headlines local Bulldogs 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
It happens every year. Stinging from one last defeat at the hands of a familiar opponent to end the season, disappointed in the previous year’s campaign and frustrat­ed that its talent has not bro­ken through, a team sets a goal — reach the Frozen Four. Rare is the team that can actually accomplish that goal, and rarer still do the stars line up as they have for Minnesota-Duluth. With the Frozen Four just a few hours down the road, in the very same arena that ended their season last year at the hands of North Dakota, the Bulldogs saw a golden opportunity and capitalized. 
“It’s been a goal of this group since last year,” Bulldogs coach Scott Sandelin said. “It’s nice to be close to home.” 
Their roster was chock-full of talent, and yet Minnesota-Duluth hadn’t found a way to get back to the Frozen Four — until this year. This year, the Bulldogs were finally able to earn those ever-elusive post­season wins. 
“It’s definitely been a little while since we’ve been to the Frozen Four,” junior center Jack Connolly said. “We thought we had all the poten­tial in the world this year. We’ve battled hard in the postseason and we’ve given ourselves an opportunity to make history in our program.” 
As recently as two weeks ago, however, that history was in question. Facing Bemidji State in the opening game of the WCHA postseason tourna­ment known as the Final Five (again at Xcel Energy Center), the Bulldogs dropped a 3-2 decision in overtime — and they had lost only once in 14 other overtime games all sea­son long. Only the tight-knit nature of the team allowed Minnesota-Duluth to find its way back. 
“I think the Bemidji game was a low point for our team. It did sting,” Sandelin said. “This is a pretty close group. They’ve never lost two games back-to-back all year — it shows the character of this team. They pull together when their backs are up against the wall.” 
Nine days later, coming off a 2-0 victory over Union in the NCAA first round, the Bulldogs took down the tour­nament’s overall No. 1 seed Yale, earning their first trip to the Frozen Four since 2004, and the fourth in the pro ­gram’s history. Yet their work was not done. 
“Our guys were excited but not overly excited,” Sandelin said. “I thought it was a neat thing. They took it in stride. They were looking forward to not just getting there, but hopefully playing two games and having a chance to win a national championship.” 
If Minnesota-Duluth does win its first-ever crown, it will be in large part due to its top attacking line, made up of Jack Connolly, junior wing Mike Connolly and senior wing Justin Fontaine. Together, the three are an absolute nightmare for oppos­ing defenses. 
“They’re one of the best lines in college hockey,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
The outcome of Thursday night’s game may well depend on how well Notre Dame can contain that top Bulldog line. 
“We’re going to have to be really aware of when they’re 
on the ice and try to shut them down,” Irish senior wing Ryan Guentzel said. “They have a lot of guys with some talent, so we’re going to have to be fresh.” 


For his part, Hobey Baker nominee Jack Connolly (who has notched 41 assists on the season) defers the credit to his linemates. “It’s line chemistry,” he said. “I’m playing with two phe­nomenal linemates. They make my job a lot easier. The reason I got so many assists this year was in large part because of those guys.” 
The Bulldogs have accom­plished their goal of a home-state Frozen Four chance at redemption. Even when bemoaning a loss to Bemidji State, they knew their poten­tial and realized it, leaving only one emotion for Thursday. 
“We felt like we could go pretty deep into the postsea­son,” Jack Connolly said. “I think the guys are really excited.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




Teams 
2006 Frozen Four 
No. 1 Wisconsin No. 3 Maine No. 2 North Dakota No. 3 Boston College 
2007 Frozen Four 
No. 3 North Dakota No. 2 Boston College No. 3 Maine No. 3 Michigan State 
2008 Frozen Four 
No. 1 Michigan 
No. 4 Notre Dame 
No. 1 North Dakota No. 2 Boston College 
2009 Frozen Four 
No. 1 Boston University No. 3 Vermont No. 4 Miami (OH) No. 4 Bemidji State 
2010 Frozen Four 
No. 1 Miami (OH) No. 1 Boston College No. 4 RIT No. 1 Wisconsin 
Thursday, April 7, 2011 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Top-seed North Dakota enters as Frozen favorite 
Hobey Baker finalist Frattin serves as leader, source of inspiration after roster dismissal 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The NCAA Tournament began with four No. 1 seeds eyeing a national championship. As the Frozen Four begins, only one is still standing. 
North Dakota has emerged as the runaway favorite to hoist its eighth NCAA championship tro­phy Saturday night in Saint Paul, largely due to the fact that it is the highest-ranked team remain­ing, but also because it is domi­nating play in recent weeks. 
After capturing the WCHA tournament title with a 3-2 dou­ble overtime win against Denver March 19, the Fighting Sioux (32­8-3) defeated the Pioneers again March 27 to advance to the Frozen Four, this time by an impressive 6-1 margin. North Dakota also beat Rensselaer 6-0 in the first round. The victories are part of an 11-game winning streak and the Sioux haven’t lost in 15 games. 
Focus is the driving point behind the Sioux’s run, said North Dakota coach Dave Hakstol. 
“I think what we did well [in the NCAA regionals] is really keep ourselves focused on the job at hand as a team and play a good, team game,” Hakstol said. “When you go through and break a game down on video, [there are] a lot of points in a hockey game where momentum can shift in one direction or the other if you get distracted, if you allow a bad bounce or a tough play to affect you. I thought our team did a good job on having just a real, good, strong perspective.” 
The Sioux roster features one of the top players in college hock­ey, senior right wing Matt Frattin. Frattin, who was recently named one of three finalists for the Hobey Baker Award given annu­ally to the best player in college hockey, tallied an NCAA-leading 36 goals on the season and is second in the country with 60 points. 
Frattin is a source of inspira­tion for North Dakota. Following a pair of underwhelming fresh­man and sophomore seasons, Frattin was charged with a DUI in August 2009, resulting in Hakstol kicking him off the team and removing his scholarship. Yet Frattin fought his way back onto the squad in December 2009, with a new attitude and this time paying his own way, 
“I don’t know if I would have thought he’d have 36 goals,” sen­ior captain and defenseman Chay Genoway said. “If you had said that at the beginning of the year, I might have been a little bit sur­prised. But we knew what Matt was capable [of] when he came in as a freshman. And when he had his back up against the wall [after] what he went through, when he came back to our pro­gram a couple years ago, you could just see a change in him and I think the sky was the limit from there.” 
What truly makes North Dakota so dangerous is the num­ber of matchup problems it pro­vides. Five Sioux players are in the top 43 in scoring in the coun­try. The Sioux also have first-team All-WCHA members at for­ward, defenseman and goal­tender, in Frattin, Genoway and sophomore netminder Aaron Dell. 
“We really pride ourselves on depth,” Genoway said. “I think we can really roll four lines and play six [defensemen], and [we have] two goalies who can play any given night.” 
This depth was developed in large part due to injuries sus­tained during the season. Genoway, forward Jason Gregoire and defensemen Derek Forbort and Andrew MacWilliam, among others, have missed sig­nificant time this season. All are now back. 


“I think [injuries are] one thing that’s strengthened this group,” Hakstol said. “It’s given them probably a deeper belief in them­selves. Whoever is available, whichever 20 guys are dressed, have an expectation to go out individually, contribute and col­lectively find a way to win a hockey game. This past weekend, we had everyone available and we went out and we did the job.” 
Despite the fact that Dakota is expected to win it all, Hakstol knows nothing is guaranteed, especially in a single elimination tournament facing a historical power in the semifinals. There is no looking too far ahead. 
“We play a game Thursday night against the University of Michigan,” he said. “There’s nothing beyond that in our mind. That’s our job, that’s what we’re preparing for.” 
Hakstol is primarily concerned with making sure his team sim­ply plays its typical game. They are the favorite, after all. 
“Michigan’s a great hockey team. But at the end of the day, we really concentrate on prepar­ing ourselves to play our game and to play the way that we can and the way that we’ve been suc­cessful to this point in the year. You don’t change the things you do at this time of the year. You try to do them well and put your best foot forward.” 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

Nine-time champ Michigan seeks 10th title 
Confident coach Berenson counts on senior Hagelin to counter Sioux offensive edge 
do not have is the most national “I think it was a foregone con-they’re fast, they can score. and Notre Dame, the Wolverines 
By SAM GANS 

championships in NCAA history. clusion that Boston College had Their defense was stingy. We last qualified for the national 
Sports Writer 

That distinction belongs to the the best team and they were the understand we have our hands semifinals in 2008. Michigan Wolverines. No. 1 seed,” Wolverine coach full with North Dakota and “It’s an honor to be at another 
Heading into the Frozen Four, Michigan is trying to add their Red Berenson said. “But they’re probably the best team Frozen Four, especially for the each participant has a set of 10th to the trophy case and first Colorado [College] just spanked in the nation.” senior class,” Caporusso said. “It intangibles that it believes could since 1998 this weekend. After a them. It was unbelievable and I The Wolverines will counter was a great experience our provide an edge. North Dakota 3-2 win in overtime against think that was the surprise of the Sioux with an offensive unit freshman year. I think we took a is the highest-ranked team, Nebraska-Omaha in the first our region. And we were lucky led by senior left wing Carl lot from that year and it was Minnesota-Duluth has home-round, the Wolverines (28-10-4) to win in overtime [against Hagelin. Hagelin, a New York unfortunate that we weren’t state advantage, and Notre advanced to the regional final Nebraska-Omaha] and win a Rangers draftee, is tops on able to make it the following two Dame is coming in with an March 26, where they faced the close game against Colorado. So Michigan in scoring with 48 years. We learned a lot from underdog, “might as well be us” No.4 seed Colorado College, who we’re here [at the Frozen Four], points. Caporusso is second with that experience and we’re very mindset and little pressure. upset No. 1 Boston College 8-4. but I think people were sur-30 points. happy to be back here again.” 
Yet the one thing those teams Michigan was victorious 2-1. prised that we came out of that On the blueline, freshman Jon Whether Michigan’s seniors region.” Merrill has emerged as a stal-can turn the experience gained 
Despite what many view as a wart, earning second team all-then into a championship this stunning regional conquer, the CCHA honors. The Wolverines year remains to be seen. Though Wolverines have been quite also hope to have junior North Dakota’s talent appears to impressive recently, winning Brandon Burlon back in the give them the edge on paper, eleven of their past twelve lineup to protect senior goal-Berenson, sixth on the NCAA’s games, including a 4-2 victory tender Shawn Hunwick. The career victories list, knows any-over Notre Dame in the CCHA status of Burlon, who missed the thing can happen. Tournament third-place game regional tournament due to ill-“I don’t know if we can match March 19. The Irish and ness, will be Berenson’s game-North Dakota’s speed and/or Michigan also met twice earlier, day decision. skill. And I don’t think anyone’s splitting a series in Ann Arbor, Regardless if the Honorable found a way to take that out of Mich. Nov. 12 and 13. Mention all-CCHA defenseman is the game. They’ve got the edge 
In the Wolverines’ path is the back or not, the Wolverines are on special teams and they’ve got lone No. 1 seed remaining, still beaming with confidence. the edge on offensive skill, so North Dakota — a challenge “I definitely feel we have a we’ve got to play our game. Our Michigan knows will demand its great team here,” Caporusso team’s going to give it their best best. said. “Being here four years, I shot. We’ve seen three other No. 
“I think [North Dakota] has think we do have a special 1 teams go down and this is the pretty much all you can ask for team.” last team standing.” in a team,” senior center Louie The Frozen Four is not a new Caporusso said. “They’re deep, experience for the program’s Contact Sam Gans at they’re strong, they’re big, seniors. Just like North Dakota sgans@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 7, 2011 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Notre Dame rebounded from two losses in the CCHA Championship in 
Detroit by winning back-to-back games in the NCAA Northeast Regional. The Irish defeated Merrimack 4-3 in overtime in the first round before knocking off New Hampshire 2-1 in the regional final. 
The Irish are playing in their second Frozen Four and first since 2008. They will play Minnesota-Duluth in the semifinal with the winner to face the winner of the second semifinal between North Dakota and Michigan. 





SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 





