the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


SevenCairostudentstofinishsemesterinLondon 
University officials comment on chaotic situation in Middle Eastern metropolis 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Two weeks after traveling to Cairo with the intent of staying for a full semester, one week after losing Internet and cell phone connections and three days after their evacuation to Istanbul, sev­eral Notre Dame stu-See Also dents left 
“Reporters
Turkey Thursday beaten, arrested for either 

in Cairo” 
London or South Bend. page 5 
Seven of the 12 stu­dents will finish the semester at Notre Dame’s London Program, University spokesman Dennis Brown said. Two students flew to London Wednesday and five oth­ers arrived Thursday night. 
At least three of the remaining five students will return to Notre Dame’s South Bend campus this semester, Brown said. 
The 12 undergraduates arrived in Cairo Jan. 20 to study at the American University in Cairo (AUC), but were evacuated Monday due to the ongoing protests in Egypt. 
see CAIRO/page 4 




Former news editor reflects on unique experience in Egyptian capital 
This was originally supposed to be a column introducing The Observer’s new blog, The International Desk, in which study abroad stu­dents share their experi­ences from locations around the world. 
I was studying abroad in Cairo and already had a column written for News Writer this space a week ago to convince you to read about my life in Egypt. 
It went something like this: 
Right now, it is probably near­ing lunchtime and you are read­ing The Observer while sipping on a coffee from Waddick’s. 
You’re dreading your next class and wishing you had got­ten a few more hours of sleep. 
It feels like negative 12 degrees outside. 
Right now in Cairo, it’s din­nertime. I’m tired from a long day of classes and am sitting in traffic on the bus back to my 

see BLOG/page 4 


Alumni Association appoints new director 
Observer Staff Report 
Elizabeth “Dolly” Duffy, associ­ate director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, has been appointed executive director of the association, as well as asso­ciate vice president for University Relations, according to a University press release. 
Duffy will succeed Charles F. “Chuck” Lennon in July when he leaves the University after 30 years leading the most extensive alumni network in the nation. 

“I’m absolutely thrilled to build on the strong outreach, pro­grams and service that Chuck and this wonderful staff have accomplished over many years,” Duffy said. “It’s an honor to have the opportunity to work with our alumni, parents and friends to deepen their connection to Notre Dame.” 
The association connects the University with its nearly 132,000 alumni. Lennon increased the number of clubs from 151 to 276 during his career. 
“As we begin this next chapter in the history of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, I have great confidence that Dolly will build upon an organization that is con-
see ALUMNI/page 4 


London calls students to intern 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
For many students, intern­ing for a company involves fetching coffee and picking up laundry for their bosses. However, some Notre Dame students studying abroad in London are defying these stereotypes as they intern for a variety of organiza ­tions. 
Junior Stephen LaBrecque is working as an awards assistant for the US -UK Fulbright Commission. He said he spends most of his time finding various ways to promote the awards of the program. 
“My duties include redesigning promotional material and advertise ­ments, emailing out various department heads and socie­ty chairpersons to increase the awareness of the awards,” he said. “I also have been looking into vari­ous ways to advertise for the awards via job websites and social networking sites.” 
LaBrecque said he sought an internship during his time abroad for cultural and career-driven purposes. 
“I was looking for an 
opportunity to meet local residents of London and I also wanted to gain some new work experience,” he said. 
Junior Kelsey Clemson, who is interning for the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and Wales, said she chose to intern to be active in London. 
“[I] wanted a way to get more involved in the city I am living in,” she said. “[It is 
a] great hands on experi­ence.” 
Junior Alyssa Sappenfield is interning with Emmaus, a charitable organization in London. Emmaus enables the homeless to live in a community as “companions” in order to get back on there feet. They help a store sell donated items in order to fund the community. 
Sappenfield said interning with the group allows her to give back to the public. 
“I have always believed that we all have a responsi­bility to contribute to the good of society, especially to those are a vulnerable and face hardship,” she said. “Emmaus is an organization that echoes those beliefs.” 
Clemson, who is coordinat­ing with dioceses to market National Grandparent 
see INTERN/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Winter career fair postponed due to weather page 3  Boy bands revisited page 8  Men’s basketball defeats DePaul page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, February 4, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, SIX QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: 
Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Q: 
Where did you study abroad last semester? Stephanie: Toledo, Spain 

Q: 
What is the most useful thing you learned? Stephanie: How to use public trans­portation like a boss 

Q: 
What was the strangest thing you ate? Stephanie: Rabbit and this orange mush that had fat on top of it, and I'm still not sure what it's called. We did-n't get a name for it, we just ate it. 

Q: 
What is your favorite memory? Stephanie: When my mom came and 


met my host family, and they took my mom and me out for drinks and for a tour of the town 
Q: 
What was the most unexpected thing? Stephanie: There are redheads in Spain! And my host family became like a real family to me. 

Q: 
What did you miss the most? Stephanie: Snacking: sour patch watermelons and diorites. And there is no substitute. Europe sucks at gummies. Nothing compares. 


Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Toxic candy pulled from 
U.S. markets 
WASHINGTON — The 
U.S. government says candy imported from Pakistan called Toxic Waste Nuclear Sludge is not safe to eat. Who would have guessed? 
The Food and Drug Administration announced that the U.S. distributor of Nuclear Sludge chew bars is recalling the candy because of lead contam­ination. No one has been sickened, but the FDA said elevated lead con­tent could be harmful to small children, infants and pregnant women. 
The candies were manufactured in Pakistan. Indianapolis-based Candy Dynamics said it would stop sell­ing all Nuclear Sludge candy in the U.S. The candy is wrapped in bright yellow caution ­like tape, and the com­pany’s website features the screech of a blaring warning horn. 
“Our product’s tongue­in-cheek brand name in no way reflects the vigi­lant approach the com­pany takes toward prod­uct integrity,” the com­pany said in a state ­ment. 
House fire started by impromptu ashtray 
PORTLAND, Ore.— An 
official in Portland, Ore., says a house fire that caused $30,000 in damage was apparently started by tenants who were using a hole in the floor as an ashtray. 
Portland Fire & Rescue spokesman Paul Corah says, in his words, “That ’s not careless smoking, that’s stupid smoking.” 
He says the caller who reported the fire Wednesday also hung up on the 911 dispatcher, then refused to talk when the dispatcher tried to call back for more details. 
No one was injured. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Graduate School 101: Understanding Graduate School Panel Discussion and Q &A Session is today at 2:00 
p.m. in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. For more information contact VictoriaFroude at vfroude@nd.edu. or Sarah Dunham-Cheatham at sdun­ham@nd.edu. 
Dance Fest 2011,Welsh Family Hall’s signature event is being held tonight at Washington Hall. The event features the dancing of Troop ND, Ballroom Club, Swing Club,Irish Dance Team, Dance Co., First Class Steppers and Pom Squad. Doors open at 7:00 p.m.The cost is $7 and all pro­ceeds will go towards the Robinson Community Learning Center Summer Shakespeare Program. 
Saturday, The Girl With The Dragon Tatoo is being shown at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film, based on the bestselling novel by Stieg Larsson starts at 3 p.m. and costs between $3 and $6. 
Saturday night, the Late Night Olympics kicks off at 6 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. This all night interhall olympic style competition benefits the St. Joseph Special Olympics. For more information,contact Tim Novak at 574-631-0584. 
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. L.A. Theatre works presents The Real Dr. Strangelove as apart of the visiting artist series. The per­formance is being presented in the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets cost between $15 and $35. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sam Stryker Allan Joseph Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Anna Boarini Jack Hefferon 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Megan Kozak 
today Tonight saturday sunday monday tuesday 






CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
22 16 HIGH 31 2514

mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
16 10 LOW 2410 8 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
28 24 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Friday, February 4, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Winter career fair postponed 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The cancelation of Wednesday’s annual Winter Career and Internship Fair due to extreme weather conditions has sparked both concern and questions from many students. 
Sophomore Peter Thompson said the storm produced a dilem­ma for internship possibilities this summer. 
“I am one of the fortunate ones who had an interview before the blizzard came on Tuesday,” Thompson said. “However, I would have liked to create a con­nection with a couple of employ­ers at the fair on Tuesday to open up more possibilities for this sum­mer and the future.” 
Lee Svete, director of the Career Center, said weathering the storm would not be a wise decision with the high influx of employers com­ing in from the Chicago area. 
“When Notre Dame cancelled the Board of Trustees meeting due to the blizzard, we took it as our cue to cancel the Career and Internship Fair,” he said. “If that level of leadership was going to nix their event, we thought it would be good to follow suit.” 
Svete said he and his staff have begun contacting employers who were planning on coming to Wednesday’s event to inform them of the tentative rescheduled date. 
“We are hoping to be able to hold the event on March 3, based on the availability of the Joyce Center,” he said. “We think we actually will be able to pick up more employers to come at the later date.” 
In addition, Svete said he wants those students who had inter­views lined up for the following weeks to keep an eye on employ­ers they remain interested in. 
“The résumés for students who had an interview scheduled remain on Go IRISH,” Svete said. “Some employers need to follow through with the application process, so we ask students to monitor those deadlines through Go IRISH.” 
In addition to the Career and Internship Fair, the Diversity Reception will also be held tenta­tively on March 3, Svete said. 
“March 3 is the ideal date for us all, as most, if not all, of our initial employers will be able to return to campus, as will one hundred per­cent of our sponsors,” he said. 
The blizzard, which wreaked havoc on the entire Midwest, has created problems for the compa­nies and corporations who planned on making the trip to campus. Svete said despite this, the event would benefit from a later date. 
“Armageddon took over Chicago and O’Hare was can-celling flights left and right,” he said. “But, the make-up date of March 3 will make for a better Career and Internship Fair for all.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
SGA holds meeting for election candidates 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
With elections for student government around the cor­ner, Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) held a meeting for prospective candidates Thursday. 
Another meeting will take place today at 2:15 p.m. in the SGA office. At least one member from each ticket must attend one of the meet­ings in order to be eligible to run. 
The meeting was offered to those who wish to run for SGA, Residence Hall Association, Student Activities Board and Student Diversity Board. 
One of the meetings was originally scheduled for Wednesday, but was can-celled due to inclement weather. 
At the meeting, Laura Smith, student body vice president, explained the rules of the election. 
Students were told when and where they are allowed to post campaign materials. Students also received elec­tion rules. 
Smith said students must have a 3.0 GPA in order to run. 
“If you do not have it, Patrick [Daniel, director of Student Involvement] and the Student Involvement people will be checking and he will ask you to step down from campaigning,” she said. “The College is really strict on the GPA requirement.” 
In addition, students may not participate in a study abroad program during their term, which lasts an entire academic year. 
Smith said in order to run for student body president or vice president, students must be a rising junior or senior at the College. 
Dates were also announced for campaigning and Election Day. 
“Your campaigning will start Sunday, Feb. 20 at 5 
p.m. 
and then it will end that Wednesday, Feb. 23 at 11:59 

p.m. 
No later than that,” Smith said. “And then voting will take place Thursday from midnight to Thursday 


11:59 p.m.” 
Smith said students must have their platform approved by SGA and the Student Involvement Office. Platforms are due Friday, Feb. 18 at 5 
p.m. and will be approved by Feb. 19 at 9 a.m. 
Smith said students have to pay for their own campaign expenses. 
“All the costs with your campaigning is up to you,” she said. “Don’t save your receipts because you won’t be reimbursed for anything.” 
Smith said she will act as interim Election Commissioner and will be responsible for approving campaign platforms and other materials. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 




SMC students ring in Chinese New Year 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s College rang in the Chinese New Year Thursday with a tea party, complete with paper lanterns, music and sweets. 
Held in the Warner Conference Room in the Student Center, the celebration featured two different types of Chinese tea, as well as snacks ranging from candies to bis­cuits. 
Alice Siqin Yang, assistant director of Global Education, said the tea party was held to raise awareness about the country, as well as to share information about study abroad programs. 
“I think that it’s important for students nowadays to know more about Chinese history and Chinese culture and Chinese language,” she said. 
During the event, students shared experiences studying abroad in China. 
Senior Julie Hagopian said students should consider the benefits of studying in China. 
“Just jump,” she said. “Just go. It’s one of the best. Financially it’s one of the best-priced trips. You still get three credits for it.” 
Hagopian said she had fears before her trip, but she did not regret her decision. 
“It’s scary going to a place that you don’t know the lan­guage,” Hagopian said. “You’re not exactly familiar with the culture or the food, but that’s the beauty of it. You just have to jump. Leave inhibitions at the door, and just go.” 
Hagopian said it is important to share the Chinese culture with the Saint Mary’s commu­nity. 
“General multicultural-ness is always important … to bring to the forefront that there are different cultures around the world,” she said. “Sometimes it’s not always represented as well in a beautiful, Midwestern, primarily white campus like our own, but reaching out makes it more clear that there are other cultures and they are just as vibrant as our own.” 
Yang said other events per­taining to Chinese culture would be held. On Feb. 19, the College will host the event “Chinese New Year Celebration.” The event will be held in O’Laughlin Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. It is free and open to the public. 
Yang said the event will have a variety of different cultural aspects to it including song, dance and kung fu. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 4, 2011 
deep faith and commitment to University and a passion for our Dame. She has worked as a associate director of the associa­
family, uniquely qualify her to University. This array of qualifi-press secretary for a U.S. con-tion in early 2008. She directed 
Alumni 
continued from page 1 
sidered a model for excellence in higher education with the wis­dom, enthusiasm and commit­ment to excellence necessary for still further growth and greater good,” said Louis M. Nanni, vice president for University Relations. “Her experience as an entrepreneur, combined with her take on this important role in the broader Notre Dame family.” 
Duffy is a 1984 graduate of Notre Dame. She was selected for the position after a four-month worldwide search for Lennon’s replacement. 
“I am delighted for Dolly and her family,” Lennon said. “She brings a breadth of experience, a knack for relationship-building, a keen understanding of the cation and abilities will serve her well in her new position. I am confident she has the ability, experience and passion — as well as the support of the University administration, Alumni Board, club and class volunteers and staff — to take the Alumni Association to the next level.” 
Duffy earned her bachelor’s degree in history from Notre gressman and an account execu­tive for public relations firms in St. Louis and Kansas City. Duffy also purchased Atchison Products in 1990 with her hus­band and grew it substantially over 17 years before it was acquired by BIC Graphic USA. 
Duffy served on the board of directors for Notre Dame clubs in Washington, D.C., St. Louis and Kansas City, and she became the launch of a new online plat­form and strategy called myNotreDame, designed to help alumni connect more easily with one another and the University. She also supported the creation of ND Women Connect and led a strategic review of the associa­tion’s programs and initiatives. 
Duffy and her husband live in South Bend with their five chil­dren. 
Cairo 
continued from page 1 
“We are grateful for the assis­tance from the American University in Cairo (AUC) for the secure environment that they pro­vided our students amidst the protests and violence in Cairo, and 
U.S. State Department for their help in transporting the students to Turkey,” said J. Nicholas Entrikin, Notre Dame’s vice presi­dent for Internationalization in a Monday press release announcing the students’ arrival in Istanbul. 
Notre Dame’s study abroad pro­gram through AUC allows stu­dents to explore fields of study such as Middle Eastern studies, Egyptology and Islamic art and architecture, according to a University press release. While in Cairo, Notre Dame students also study alongside Egyptian and Arab students. 
Due to the outbreak of violent protests in Egypt, this semester’s participants in Notre Dame’s Cairo program were evacuated before the semester began at AUC. 
As the protests spread and grew, the students were instructed to remain in AUC’s student resi­dence in Zamalek, a residential district of Cairo. The Egyptian government’s efforts to stop pro­testors caused the students to lose Internet and mobile phone con­nections on Jan. 27. 
The students were able to make between returning to one-minute landline phone calls South Bend for the semester or on Jan. 28, according to a website joining the University’s study update from Notre Dame’s Office abroad program in London. of International Studies (OIS). Meanwhile, AUC has not 
Following a U.S. State reopened for classes and is work-Department recommendation that ing to keep students who remain 
American citizens  in the Zamalek  
leave Egypt, Notre Dame announced  “Communications  residence safe. In a Wednesday  
in a Sunday press release the stu­dents would be  were severely disrupted, but  website update, AUC President Lisa Anderson  
evacuated from  students, parents and  said  the  
Cairo.  OIS staff members  University antici­ 
“We’re using every connection we have to try to  were able to create an effective  pated beginning the semester on Feb. 13.  
expedite  the  communications  “While the New  
p r o c e s s , ” U n i v e r s i t y s p o k e s m a n  network that was invaluable in  Cairo campus is in fine shape, we have consolidated  
Dennis Brown said Monday as the students  facilitating the evacuation.”  the students cur­rently in resi­dence in  
awaited  a  U.S.  Zamalek, so as to  
State Department  J. Nicholas Entrikin  be able to better  
charter flight out of Cairo. The University  vice president Internationalization  provide food, en t e r t ain me nt and security,”  
announced  the  Anderson said in  

students’ arrival in Istanbul a Thursday update. “A number of Monday night. the offices in our campus down­
“Communications were severely town did sustain some damage disrupted, but students, parents last Saturday — broken glass, and OIS staff members were able stolen computers, vandalized art to create an effective communica-work in the Gallery — but there tions network that was invaluable have been no subsequent prob-in facilitating the evacuation,” lems.” Entrikin said in a press release. 
Once in Istanbul, Notre Dame Contact Laura McCrystal at asked the students to choose lmccryst@nd.edu 

Blog 
continued from page 1 
dorm. 
I’ll soon be exploring the streets of Cairo in search of tonight’s dinner. If I get a typical Egyptian meal, it will cost me less than the cup of coffee you’re sipping. 
The sun has set for the day, but it’s still a balmy 60 degrees outside. 
A few days ago, I revised the column to go like this: 
Right now in Cairo, it’s dinner­time. I’m listening to Taylor Swift and writing this blog in my dorm room because I don’t have Internet access to distract me. 
I’ve been in the dorm since 4 p.m., which is when the city­wide curfew goes into effect. 
Every once in a while, I hear the sound of gunshots from my window. 
But now, the column goes like this. 
Right now, it’s 5 a.m. in Istanbul and I’ve been up for almost 24 hours straight. 
I was woken up this morning to learn that the U.S. State Department was evacuating me and the 11 other Notre Dame students from Egypt. We packed and boarded the bus to the air­port almost immediately. 
After 10 hours of standing in an excruciatingly slow and long line outside the Cairo airport, we finally boarded a plane to leave the country. 
Due to major uprisings against the current Egyptian president and riots all over the country, the 12 Notre Dame stu­dents studying abroad in Cairo were evacuated, pulled from the program and reassigned to either Notre Dame or London. 
I’m sure most of you have read the headlines or watched CNN. In fact, you probably know more about the facts of the Egyptian revolution than me, since I was without Internet for almost a week. 
But what I do know is what it felt like being there. 
What tear gas feels like. 
What life is like without Internet or phone access. 
What cars look like after they’ve been set on fire by pro­testers. 
And you can read about all of it at The Observer’s new blog, The International Desk, at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
This was originally supposed to be a column convincing you to read the new blog. I even came up with a corny slogan: “The Observer’s International Desk — Helping Notre Dame students break out of the bubble without leaving Waddick’s since 2011.” 
But to be honest, I don’t have much energy left for convincing. 
So I will simply say, if you are interested in reading about the most mind-blowing, whirlwind experience of my life, read my blog at The Observer’s International Bureau. 
You can find it at www.ndsm­cobserver.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Friday, February 4, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 5 
ects and responsibilities,” he said. 
Intern 


continued from page 1 
Pilgrimages in England and develop guide material for the pilgrimages, said the internship is providing her with valuable skills for life after Notre Dame. 
“I am getting a lot of expe­rience communicating with others to devel­op a pastorally 
LaBrecque said communica­tion presents a challenge when interning in a foreign country. 
“So far I’ve been laughed at for my American accent and I have to be conscious of the fact that there are differences of language,” he said. “For example, I was going to send out an email with the word ‘program,’ my boss alerted me 
sensitive and “People seem to treat to the fact that relevant hand-me like a co-worker in the UK its book,” she said. ‘programme.’” 
rather than someone
Sappenfield Sappenfield 
said she who is just helping said encounter-
believes her out for four months. I ing foreign lan­work at guages proves 
defnitely wasn’t 
Emmaus is to be a chal ­
expecting that.” 
preparing her lenge with her for her post -internship. graduate Kelsey Clemson “Accents are career. She said really hard to 
junior
the nature of the organiza ­tion is in accord with what she wants in a job. 
“I am thinking of going to law school, specifically public interest law,” Sappenfield said. “I hope Emmaus will give me more hands-on serv­ice experience to prepare for a career in a field with social justice and community enrichment in mind.” 
LaBrecque said one of the reasons he enjoys working with the Fulbright Commission is because the job is fast paced. 
“Non-profits can’t afford a large staff, so the interns are given a lot of different proj­get used to,” 
she said. “There are companions from Latvia, Poland, Scotland and other places.” 
Clemson said working in a professional environment in the city of London has been rewarding. 
“In my experience so far, I have been really struck by the professionalism of my internship,” she said. “People seem to treat me like a co­worker rather than someone who is just helping out for four months. I definitely was­n’t expecting that.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
EGYPT 
Dozens of reporters beaten, arrested in Cairo 
Associated Press 
CAIRO — Menacing gangs backing President Hosni Mubarak attacked journalists and human rights activists Thursday in an ugly turn in Egypt’s crisis as government opponents pushed supporters out of Cairo’s main square in a second day of street battles. Organizers called for protesters trying to topple the regime to fill every square in the huge capital on Friday. 
The new vice president, widely considered the first successor Mubarak has ever designated, fueled anti-foreign sentiment by going on state television and blaming outsiders for fomenting unrest. The government has accused media outlets of being sympathetic to protesters who want the president to quit now rather than serve out his term, as he has vowed to do. 
The Obama administration, meanwhile, was in talks with top Egyptian officials about the pos­sibility of Mubarak immediately resigning and the formation of an interim government that could prepare the country for free and fair elections later this year, U.S. officials said Thursday. The talks were first reported by The New York Times. 
The creation of a military-backed caretaker government in Egypt is one of several ideas being discussed as anti-Mubarak protests escalate in the streets of Cairo and other Egyptian cities, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive diplomatic talks that are continuing. 
Among those options is a pro­posal for Mubarak to resign immediately and cede power to a transitional government run by Vice President Omar Suleiman. 
White House and State Department spokesmen would not discuss details of the discus­sions U.S. officials are having with the Egyptians. 
“The president has said that now is the time to begin a peace­ful, orderly and meaningful tran­sition,” said White House nation­al security spokesman Tommy Vietor on Thursday night. “We have discussed with the Egyptians a variety of different ways to move that process for­ward.” 
Mubarak, 82, told ABC televi­sion in an interview that he was fed up and wants to resign. But he said he can’t for fear the country would sink into chaos. He said he was very unhappy about the two days of clashes in central Tahrir Square. 
“I do not want to see Egyptians fighting each other,” he was quoted as saying. 
The violence that had been concentrated in Tahrir spread around the city of 18 million, with a new wave of arson and looting. 
Soldiers, mainly protecting government buildings and important institutions, remained passive as they have since replacing police on the streets almost a week ago. Few uni­formed police have been seen around the city in that time, and protesters allege some of them have stripped off their uniforms and mixed in with the gangs of marauding thugs. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 6 Friday, February 4, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Snow day magic 

I grew up dreaming for snow days. I cannot count the number of nights I slept with a spoon under my pillow and my pajamas inside-out. If my prayers were ever answered by some miracle, I scraped together all the Megan Doyle snow in my Atlanta lawn to 
Associate 
build a snowman. 

News Editor 
My family moved north, and I only learned more snow meant a bigger snowman. But nothing changed the magic of waking up to a fresh dusting of snow and a listing of school closings. 
Now I am in college, and the snow, once miraculous, suddenly became a hassle. Another inch on the ground became another inch to scrape off my car in the freezing cold. Another coat­ing on the ground meant more snow in my boots, more cold wind and more slippery ice on the sidewalk. Another foot on the ground meant more layers to pile, bundle, wrap, zip and fasten before I venture outside. 
South Quad no longer becomes a friendly stretch of grass. Instead it is 
a harsh wind tunnel, an Arctic expanse of wasteland and wind. I wish for a team of Alaskan sled dogs and a parka. 
Where did the magic go? I thought I lost it. I used to live for snow days. My sisters and I would wake up to choco­late chip pancakes, hot chocolate and bacon, and we would spend our day sledding on the giant hill behind our house. The rush of adrenaline as the sled rocketed down the hill was life — childhood exploded in that one, beau­tiful, miraculous moment. Now, the only rushing I do in the middle of the winter is on the sidewalks between classes as I huddle in my jacket and make a beeline for DeBart. 
The last snow day at Notre Dame was in 2000. So when I woke up on Wednesday morning to the Notre Dame Alert text informing me that the University closed due to inclement weather, I almost thought I was in a dream. Yet I woke up again — at noon — to the reality of an actual, real-life, college snow day. I almost died of joy. 
My afternoon was spent curled on a comfortable couch with my favorite people, watching movies, pretending to do work, waiting for brownies to be ready, eating too many brownies, watching more movies and then remembering I really did have an insane amount of work to finish because real life was still in session. 
After the perfect afternoon free from classes, I spent the night staying up too late and doing homework. But on the way back to my dorm in the cold, the dome shone against the dark night. The snow fell softly, silently and sweetly. I suddenly was hit with a sense of reverence and smacked by a sense of peace in the middle of the craziest week. Because here we are in a world that does not stop turning, even for a blizzard, and I had a moment of peace. I had my own mira­cle: a day to remember miracles. A snow day. 
I did not sleep with a spoon under my pillow. I did not wear my pajamas inside-out. I did not build a snowman. 
I just turned by face up to the sky and tasted the cold snowflakes as they melted on my tongue. And life was magical. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
A new tradition 
Snow days in college are a surreal experience. With the apocalyptic tones of meteorologists ringing in their ears, Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students started to get a lit­tle ridiculous on Tuesday night. 
Blizzard conditions? Snow measured in double-digits? The Career Fair has been cancelled? A snow day was imminent, it had to be. 
People from warm-weather states started to get a little giddy, as many had never experienced a snow day in their Catholic Disneyland. A few overly-brave people ventured out onto the maybe-frozen Saint Mary’s lake before being shooed off by Notre Dame Security Police. Some headed out the dorm courtyards and quads to build snow forts out of recycling-bin-shaped blocks. Others spent hours play­ing rugby and football in the powder before heading inside to watch marathons of television shows on DVD. 
Despite a snow emergency issued by South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke that restricted travel, the valiant staff of 
entire academic career. Those experienced 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s food services in winter weather cancellations fed the kept the dining halls open for regular hours. anticipation with nostalgia for snow days You could even go to LaFortune Student Center past. and get a hot chocolate after sledding down the But our campuses, smack-dab in the mid-steps of Bond Hall on your dining hall tray dle of lake-effect territory and well-stocked from breakfast. with removal equipment, haven’t closed For everyone stranded off campus, it was a 
since 2000. The sheer novelty of it was enough for 18-to­22-year-olds to resort to the tried-and-true snow day voodoo: 
Wear your pajamas inside-out, flush an ice cube down the toilet, sleep with a spoon under the pillow. They knew to set their alarms for ungodly hours of the morning just to watch the cancellations list on WNDU — or, in fitting college fashion, obsessively refresh their email and the school homepage until the glorious news arrived: “Because of dangerous weather conditions, classes have been cancelled and the campus will be closed today.” 
For the 80 percent of the student body stuck on either campus, Wednesday was truly an escapade through day to wander between apartment complexes on foot (toasty in Uggs and snow boots), inventing ways to include snow in their tailgate games left over from football sea­son. Students even took South Bend’s new snow removal ordinance to heart and braved the cold to shovel their sidewalks. 
Wednesday had the best of college — spontaneity, friends, community — without the pesky business of class­work and schedules and predictability. When football gameday has its own website and dorm Mass comes at the same time every week, sometimes the best parts of the tradition-laden “Notre Dame experience” are the unex­pected things like snow days. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
OBSERVER POLL 

“If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.” 
Henry David Thoreau 
U.S. author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Friday, February 4, 2011 page 7 
Please, no further help necessary! 
For fear of sounding cranky like CBS commentator Andy Rooney, I am hesitant to complain about the substandard level of global technological instantaneous communications still wallowing in some quarters of cyber­space. Naturally, like most, I want my e­mail to pop into my box a split second after it was sent from halfway around the world. I remain wild about language command software that allows my PCU Gary Caruso to reply back at me like the infamous Capitol super computers Comments such as HAL in the movie “2001, A Space Odyssey” or WOPR of “War Games.” I would accept refusals of my requests so long as their methods of communication were either mechanical or monotone. “Would you like to play Global Thermonuclear War?” could be poetry to my ear. 

Lately, humans controlling computers frustrate me. These so-called “customer support professionals” hold the entire Internet — not to mention all of my pro­prietary personal information — at the tip of their keyboards. They should comfort me, solve my problems and electronically pat me on my butt as we hang up the phone. (If I was actually Andy Rooney, at this point I would diverge to ask the ques­tion, “Do you think anyone other than me still uses the term ‘hang up’ to describe pressing the end button on a cell phone?”) 
But I am not Andy Rooney — at least not yet — and I am upset that I received no electronic butt-pats after I recently ini­tiated two customer service help calls. The first occurred when my six-month complimentary Sirius Radio and data sub­scription expired. In an attempt to renew online, I could view both programs listed on my account, but could only renew one of them. 
Surfing the Sirius site only confused me since new Ford vehicles like my Fusion Hybrid are the first to utilize new tech­nologies other companies do not. I reviewed my data options: Sirius Travel Link, Traffic or Traffic with Travel Link. Yet I read that Travel Link was exclusive to Fords, plus already included traffic data. I ended up adding a data package I thought was the Ford package that lasted just three days at a billed cost to me of 86 cents. 
Soon afterwards I knew I failed to renew my data when I clicked for weath­er information I previously saw during my complimentary period. Rather than weather, a notice including a call button I could conveniently press to remedy my problem shown brightly on my dash­board. Naturally, I pushed the help but­ton. 
Immediately, I knew by the sing-songy 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you, North Dining Hall staff! 
This morning my roommates and I woke up to the great news of class cancellations due to the snowpocalypse that had reached South Bend overnight. After going back to sleep for another hour, we then got to work on deciding what to do with our newly found freetime. First order of business: eat some food. We wanted nothing more than to go to North Dining Hall and enjoy some hot brunch after the long snowy night. Unsure of whether NDH would be open as a result of the storm, we trekked across north quad and made it there without too much trouble because of the efficient snow removal. The even better news was that NDH was open! The card swipers were there, smiling at us as usual, the dessert bar was being restocked as we took our seats and the food was hot and ready. We certainly didn’t expect such a scene! The men and women of North Dining Hall (and the snow removal crew and the LaFortune workers and various support staff) made it to campus safely, all for our direct benefit. We cannot thank you enough for all that you do for us! While we slept in and lounged in our pajamas, all of you were out and about, braving the brutal road conditions and making your way to Notre Dame. It really says a lot about how much we need to appreciate the staff on campus. Don’t take your clear sidewalks, clean dorms, hot lunch and Starbucks for granted. Many people came to work this morning despite the blizzard so take a minute to say thank you and appreciate how good we have it here. Thanks Notre Dame for the snow day and thanks NDH for the best brunch we’ve had all year! 
Taylor Sticha, Katie Hennessy, Sydney Speltz, Catherine de la Rosa, Mary Goodman, Anna Bennett, Mara Catlaw 
sophomores Lewis Hall Feb. 2 

Thank you, ‘Snow Essential Personnel’ 
Thank you for your dedication. While thousands of students, including myself, had the chance to step out of their hectic lifestyles for an entire day, you came to work. Because of you, I was able to admire the snow on beautifully cleared sidewalks, enjoy leisurely meals with friends at North and South dining halls, and even grab a cup of coffee at Starbucks to sip while reading a book. I wish I could have personally thanked every member of the “Snow Essential Personnel” team today. In fact, my sincerest gratitude goes out to every employee who makes living at Notre Dame such an honor and a privi­lege. As far as I’m concerned, you are the Fighting Irish. 
Raquel Falk 
sophomore Badin Hall Feb. 3 
inflections of the customer service rep that I had connected with a female in India. After explaining my quandary and inability to renew the data package, she replied, “Yes, Gary. I’ll be happy, Gary, to set up and review your music account.” 
I countered that I had successfully renewed my music but had no weather information. She continued, “Gary, we have several music options, Gary. And Gary, let me explain your payment options, Gary.” 
“I know my options — I chose Sirius Everything over something I believe I can­not buy anyway for my new Ford,” I loud­ly shot back. I then pleaded, “I want my weather and traffic back. What the hell does my account indicate that I originally had, but cannot renew on line?” 
“Gary, let’s see if you have music on channel 104, Gary.” 
“I told you I have my music. Can you help me or not?” I barked back. 
“Gary, would you be interested in pay­ing for a full year of music, Gary, and receive two months free?” she matter-of­factly asked. 
My head was about to explode. If I heard her sing my name one more time, it would have burst. I hung up on her. 
Two days later, I attempted an online check-in for a Lufthansa flight using my Expedia booking confirmation code. According to the web site, the airline had no record of me. I attempted to use another check-in option, namely, my United Airlines frequent flyer number submitted when I booked the flight. Again, nothing a mere day before what I thought for months was my scheduled flight. I panicked and called Expedia cus­tomer service ringing in — you guessed it 
— India. 
A female voice, which I swear was the same voice from my Sirius Radio call, began in her sing-songy way, “Gary, I’d be happy to confirm your itinerary, Gary. Gary, you are on flight…” 
Raising my voice, I interrupted, “I know the flights. I cannot check-in using the booking code the airline gave me or my frequent flyer number I used to book the flight.” 
“Gary, I’d be happy to add your fre­quent flyer number to your itinerary, Gary,” she matter-of-factly replied. 
Doesn’t anyone in customer services lis­ten? Oh, for want of a stress-free solution, even if just to hear an inanimate mono­tone voice tell me, “I’m sorry, Gary, I can’t do that!” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Thank you 
I would just like to say thank you to the dining hall workers and support staff who came in to work. We got a day off, but they had to come to cam­pus even through the blizzard conditions. Thank you! 
Lauren McCallick 
senior 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
Feb. 2 

Looking forward to Valentine’s Day? 
Share your feelings. 
Write a Letter to the Editor. 
The Observer 
Scene

page 8 Friday, February 4, 2011 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

If there are any musical memories of our 90s childhoods left, pop boy bands are undoubtedly one of them. A pop cultural phenomenon, no girl under the age of 25 was lacking a favorite band member (Most guys, on the other hand, debated whether or not groups of all singers should even be called a ‘band’). Starting in 1984 with the creation of New Kids on the Block, fol­lowed by The Backstreet Boys, shortly after *NSYNC and 98 degrees, as well as Boys II Men, Dream Street, B2k, and more. The cultural craze rivaling Beatle mania swept through the United States, Europe and Asia. 
Nearly 20 years later, after many break ups, reunions, attempted solo careers and members leaving, which pop stars made the best of their fame and which have dis­appeared forever into obscurity? Starring rival favorites, The Backstreet Boys and *NSYNC, it’s up to you to decide which band members are doing well or failing miserably. 
The Backstreet Boys — After a four year hiatus from 2002-2006, released “Never Gone” before Kevin Richardson, now married with a daughter, left the band. Since then, they have released two more albums in 2007 and 2009. The now four Backstreet Boys will be touring with the five remaining members of New Kids on the Block this summer. 
Nick Carter — Carter remained with the band’s management company, The Firm, after the band left the company in 2002. In 2002 he was named Cosmogirl’s “Sexiest Man in the World” (beating Justin Timberlake). His solo album “Now or Never” reached No. 17 on the Billboard Top 200. His second solo album was abort­ed when The Backstreet Boys returned to the studio. He starred in “House of Carters,” a reality television show on E!, that lasted one season. 
A.J McLean — McLean went to rehabili­tation for drug and alcohol addiction in 2001 and again in 2002 after an interven­tion lead by fellow band member Kevin Richardson. He performed in a solo tour in 2008, and his newest album “Have It All” ducer to singer/songwriters, guest starred in an episode of “Sabrina The Teenage Witch,” and voiced starred as Santa Claus in the “Dora the Explorer” Christmas episode. 
*NSYNC — Also went on hiatus in 2002. *NSYNC never released another new album as a band. Their greatest hits album was released in 2005. 
Justin Timberlake — Timberlake released his debut album “Justified” in November of 2002. He co-headlined the 

is to be released in the United States on February 8. He is engaged, with a wedding date of May 14. 
Brian Littrell — Littrell decided to become a contemporary Christian singer, releasing “In Christ Alone” from his “Welcome Home” album in 2006. His sec­ond Christian album is set to be released in 2011 after The Backstreet Boys “This Is It” tour. 
Howie Dorough — Has worked as a pro­Justified/Stripped Tour with Christina Aguilera in 2003 and is notoriously known for the Janet Jackson Super Bowl contro­versy from 2004. His “FutureSex/LoveSounds” album, known for the single “Sexy Back,” was released in 2006. He collaborated with numerous artists including Madonna, 50 Cent and Lil’ Wayne. He has been pursuing acting since 2000, including the role of Sean Parker in the Academy Award and Golden Globe nominated film “The Social Network.” 
JC Chasez — Released his debut solo album “Schizophrenic” in 2004. Chasez was dropped from the 2004 Pro Bowl per­formance as the NFL was concerned with the lyrics of the first single off the album. In addition to his work as a singer/song­writer and record producer, he appears as a judge on “Randy Jackson Presents: America’s Best Dance Crew,” whose 6th season has yet to be announced. 
Chris Kilpatrick — Participated in CMT’s reality show “Gone Country,” a competition in which the winner gets a country single produced by John Rich. Kilpatrick did not win. 
Joey Fatone — Did voice work with Lance Bass in an episode of “Kim Possible” on the Disney Channel, made a guest appearance on “Hannah Montana,” partic­ipated in season 4 of ABC’s “Dancing with the Stars,” has been a voice actor for mul­tiple episodes of “Robot Chicken” on Adult Swim, hosted “The Singing Bee” on NBC and has been on Broadway, performing in lead roles of “Rent” and a revival of “Little Shop of Horrors.” 
Lance Bass — Formed music manage­ment company Free Lance Entertainment in 2000. Bass has voiced characters both on Disney Channel and in the video game “Kingdom Hearts.” Bass entered cosmo­naut training in Russia in 2002, received certification to fly and was scheduled to star in a documentary. The original docu­mentary deal fell through; he was rejected from the program and replaced. He per­formed in the Broadway musical “Hairspray” in 2007 and released an auto­biography entitled “Out of Sync.” 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

I’ve always considered myself a bit of a boy band enthusiast. I drooled over Justin Timberlake in *NSync. I tacked up posters of Nick Carter and the Backstreet Boys on my walls. I know the origin of the name BBMak. I watched every episode of Diddy’s first “Making the Band” and own both of O-Town’s CDs. 
But as much as I love boy bands, I have always known they were a trend of the 90s. I was content listening to old CDs, feeling waves of nostalgia wash over me as I went back to the glory days of brightly-colored leggings, oversized sweatshirts and scrunchies. And because I have always seen them firmly in the 90s, the recent comebacks and reunions of these bands have taken me by surprise. 
The comebacks and reunions them­selves have not taken me by surprise; man has been making comebacks for thou­sands of years. Grover Cleveland, our 22nd and 24th president, overcame a defeat by Benjamin Harrison in his second bid for the presidency only to return and win his third campaign. In the realm of music, Eminem came back from his three-year musical hiatus in 2009, after many critics thought he retired from music, to release 2010’s highly acclaimed “Recovery.” 
The marginal popularity of these come­backs surprised me. Children around the same age I was when I fell in love with BSB were unmoved by their music, prefer­ring other artists. Instead, 20-somethings contributed the majority of ticket and CD sales. Call me naïve, but I did not under­stand how kids only 10 years our junior could so easily pass up the pinnacles of pop music from our youth. Could 10 years really make such a difference? 
I realized the real question behind my surprise concerns the relevance of boy bands in today’s pop music culture. Or, as Derek Zoolander would eloquently put it, “why boy bands?” Can boy bands achieve the same popularity today that they did in the 90s? After much deliberation, I have arrived at the conclusion that boy bands simply do not fit into the current music scene, as much as it pains me to admit this. 
I know some may immediately want to disagree with my conclusion, pointing to successes like BSB’s 2005 platinum album, “Never Gone.” Or you may possibly point to the success of Justin Timberlake, who exemplified our boy band generation and still does, to some extent. I would agree; these are stories of success. But they do not point to the relevancy of boy bands today. 
Rather, the Billboard success of the Backstreet Boys results from nostalgia and a deep desire to return to the innocence of our childhood. To our generation, boy bands represent the carefree years when our biggest problem was being placed in timeout. In these times of uncertainty when we have no idea if there will be jobs for us upon graduation, the younger years appear perfect. There was no worry about the future, only concern for the present. And so we strive to regain that mindset through our music choices. 
And Justin Timberlake’s phenomenal success perfectly represents the new pop music culture in which boy bands have no place. Solo stars completely dominate today’s pop music scene. Taylor Swift. Ke$ha. Lady Gaga. Taio Cruz. Beyoncé. The Jonas Brothers tried to bring back the boy band genre, but despite early success they have not succeeded. They tried to catch the attention of an audience unused to pop bands, only pop stars. I do not have the expertise to attempt to explain the causes of this shift away from bands, all I can do is observe its occurrence and try to postulate about it. 
My best guess is the highly competitive nature of American society today, but it may be an oversimplification. Who knows, maybe in 10 or 20 years my kids will be enamored by some hot new boy band that has just launched onto the scene. I’m wearing leggings again (though thankfully not scrunchies), which I never thought I would ever do, so I won’t rule anything out. 
It’s a scary thought that Britney Spears may have been right about something. Perhaps her career, solo since The Mickey Mouse Club, was an inspired act of genius, foreseeing the music industry of the future. Or maybe she was just lucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Mary Claire O’Donnell can be reached at modonne5@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Friday, February 4, 2011 page 9 



BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

Friday, February 4, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 10 
NFL 

Driver gets first shot at Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Donald Driver’s 36th birthday cele­bration the other day was a relatively reserved affair, just some cake with his wife and kids. At a certain age, he jokes, it’s better not to remind people you’re getting older. 
Besides, the Green Bay Packers wide receiver hopes he’s in for a much bigger cele­bration come Sunday. 
When the Packers face the Pittsburgh Steelers at Cowboys Stadium, it will be Driver’s first Super Bowl — the culmination of a 12-year wait. 
“I don’t think it’s really going to hit me until Sunday when I walk out that tunnel, knowing that this is the biggest stage that I’m going to play on in my career,” Driver said. “And I have to win it all.” 
For Driver, winning would be the ultimate payoff for years of hard yards and crunching hits. 
Driver has made a living doing the dirty work some wide receivers won’t — going 
over the middle, exposing himself to big hits and holding onto the ball. And now that he’s finally made it to the big game, all that punishment will be worth it with a win over the Steelers at Cowboys Stadium on Sunday. 
Those bumps and bruises have added up. The Packers put him on the injury report Thursday after he was limited in practice with a quadriceps injury, an injury that kept him out of a game earlier in the season. Coach Mike McCarthy said Driver was fine, and was held out as a precaution. 
The hard-hitting Steelers defense expects him to play. They know some receivers can be intimidated and Driver isn’t one of them. 
“Not Driver, no,” Steelers linebacker James Farrior said. “He’s been a great receiver for that team throughout the years. He’s fearless. He does­n’t mind getting hit, and it’s not going to be a game where you can intimidate him.” 
Driver said former team­mates such as Robert Brooks and Antonio Freeman taught him the merits of going across the middle. 
“That’s where you’re going to make your bread and but­ter,” Driver said. “Because if people know that you’re not afraid to go across the middle, you’re going to be able to make plays. They know that they can hit you as hard as they can, you’ll still stand up and smile and shake it off. And that’s what I’ve done over my career.” 
Despite all the punishment, Driver wants to play out a contract that spans two more seasons. 
“I want to walk away before I have to crawl away,” Driver said. 
Driver has taken a back seat to Greg Jennings as the team’s No. 1 receiver in recent years, but says he doesn’t mind a lower profile as long as it helps the Packers win. 
“You’ve just got to accept your role and enjoy it,” Driver said. “I think if I would have been one of those guys that went out every day and com­plained, I’m not getting this, I’m not getting that, we wouldn’t be where we’re at today. I think you have to be humble and understand the situation.” 
The Packers’ younger receivers credit Driver for helping them learn the posi­tion, and they know how much it means for him to play in the Super Bowl. 
“You could see that with Driver after the NFC champi­onship when we beat Chicago,” Jordy Nelson said. “He was a little emotional. I don’t know if anyone else caught it, but he was sitting back and taking it all in and probably thinking about all the years and all the work that he put into this to finally get this opportunity.” 
Going into the game, Driver is telling his teammates not to let it slip away. 
“It is hard getting here and that is what we stress to these guys all season long,” Driver said. “When you get to this point in your career, you just want to win it all. This sepa­rates you from all other great guys that play this game, by winning that championship.” 
And if he scores Sunday, you’d better believe he’ll do a “Lambeau Leap” into the stands — although he and his teammates will have to scout around for the right spot beforehand. 
“You’ve got to do a Lambeau Leap!” Driver said. “You’ve just got to make sure you find the right fans.” 

NBA 
Four Celtics named as All-Star reserves 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Blake Griffin is going to his first All-Star game, and Kevin Garnett matched an NBA record Thursday with his 14th straight selection as one of a record -tying four Boston Celtics headed for the mid-season event. 
Rajon Rondo, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen will accompa­ny Garnett, who equaled Jerry West, Shaquille O’Neal and Karl Malone for the most consecutive selections. The Celtics joined the 2006 Detroit Pistons as the only teams to have four players picked as reserves by the coaches. 
Griffin, the Rookie of the Year favorite of the Clippers, will become the first rookie All-Star since Yao Ming in 2003. Joining Griffin on the Western Conference team for the Feb. 20 game at Staples Center were Tim Duncan and Manu Ginobili of the NBA-leading Spurs; forwards Dirk Nowitzki of Dallas and Pau Gasol of the Lakers; and guards Deron Williams of Utah and Russell Westbrook of Oklahoma City, who joins Griffin as the lone first-time selections. 
Chris Bosh will go to Los Angeles with Miami team­mates LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, who were elected as starters. The other East reserves picked were Atlanta’s Joe Johnson and Al Horford. 
The reserves were selected in voting by the head coach­es in each conference, who had to vote for two forwards, two guards, a center and two players regardless of posi­tion. 
They went for the winning teams in the East, whose reserves are represented by just three teams. 
The voting was much more difficult in the West, where coaches bypassed the likes of Kevin Love, LaMarcus Aldridge, Zach Randolph and Lamar Odom at the forward spot. 
“There hasn’t been too many times where you’ve had this kind of competition at the top of the Eastern Conference with such good teams,” Wade said. “So look­ing at the All-Star team, you understand that most guys are going to be from a few teams. That’s how it should be in the Eastern Conference. The Western Conference is a different argument.” 
Tony Parker missed out despite being the second-leading scorer on the Spurs, who entered play Thursday with a 40-8 record. Veteran Steve Nash of the Suns and the Warriors’ Monta Ellis, the league’s sixth-leading scorer, also fell short. 
“I think every year it’s hard for point guards to make it, because there are so many great point guards in this league, especially in the West,” Williams said. “There are always young guys that are coming into the league and it’s going to continue to be a fight every year. That’s another reason I feel so honored.” 
The starters were chosen by fan voting and announced last week. Orlando’s Dwight Howard, Chicago’s Derrick Rose and Knicks forward Amare Stoudemire are the other East starters, while the Lakers’ Kobe Bryant, Hornets guard Chris Paul, forwards Carmelo Anthony of Denver and Kevin Durant of Oklahoma City, and Houston center Yao were the winners from the West. 
Yao is injured and Commissioner David Stern will choose a replacement. That gives another chance to Love, who is averaging 21.4 points and a league-best 
15.5 rebounds, and shooting 
43.9 percent from 3-point range. He has 34 straight double -doubles, but was undoubtedly hurt by his Minnesota Timberwolves’ 11-37 record. 
But the coaches couldn’t overlook Griffin, even though the Clippers are also below .500. The No. 1 pick in the 2009 draft has been spectac­ular after sitting out last season following knee sur­gery, averaging 23 points and 12.7 rebounds while compiling a half season of highlights with his array of dunks. 
The East will be coached by the Celtics’ Doc Rivers, who said earlier Thursday that he hoped his four play­ers would be rewarded and said he would play them all together. 
“That way we can run offense in the All-Star game,” Rivers said. “That’d be a first.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 

CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: 
House for rent for graduation/JPW/weddings,football, etc. 
Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons 
-walk to everything-safe family oriented street. 
Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for additional info and photos ——————————————— 

NOTICES 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— If you or someone you care about 
has been sexually assaulted, 
we can help. 
For more information, 
visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— George: The sea was angry that day my friends, like an old man try­ing to return soup at a deli! I got about fifty-feet out and then sud­denly the great beast appeared before me. I tell ya he was ten sto­ries high if he was a foot. As if sens­ing my presence he gave out a big ——————————————— bellow. I said, "Easy big fella!" And then as I watched him strug­gling I realized something was obstructing his breathing. From where I was standing I could see directly into the eye of the great fish! Then from out of nowhere a huge title wave lifted, tossed like a cork and I found myself on top of him face to face with the blow-hole. I could barely see from all of the waves crashing down on top of me but I knew something was there so I reached my hand and pulled out the obstruction! 
Kramer: What is that a Titleist? A hole in one eh. ——————————————— 
MOVIE QUOTE GAME 
You. Your Friend. Your Rules. Best of 5 wins. Today’s Difficulty: Easy 
“He's on his final hole. He's about 455 yards away, he's gonna hit about a 2 iron I think.” 
“It's got a cop motor, a 440 cubic inch plant, it's got cop tires, cop suspensions, cop shocks. It's a model made before catalytic con­verters so it'll run good on regular gas. What do you say, is it the new Bluesmobile or what? ——————————————— 
“We are noodle folk. Broth runs through our veins. “ 
“What? You pooped in the refrigera­tor? And you ate the whole... wheel of cheese? How'd you do that? Heck, I'm not even mad; that's amazing. How 'bout we get you in your p.j.'s and we hit the hay.” 
You're 5 foot nothin', 100 and noth­in', and you have barely a speck of athletic ability. And you hung in there with the best college football players in the land for 2 years. And you're gonna walk outta here with a degree from the University of Notre Dame. In this life, you don't have to prove nothin to nobody but yourself. ——————————————— 

Friday, February 4, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 4, 2011 


AP DePaul junior guard Michael Bizoukas reacts to missing a shot dur­ing Notre Dame’s 83-58 victory Thursday. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
24 points, including 5-for-8 on 3-point attempts, in their first game since beating then-sec­ond-ranked Pittsburgh on the road nine days ago. 
“I thought the layoff helped us,” Brey said. “We got ener­gized. Our energy was great this week in practice, and our ener­gy was good tonight again.” 
The Blue Demons (6-16, 0-9) remained within striking dis­tance through most of the first half, only down two points with eight minutes remaining, but fell behind 37-24 entering the half thanks to an 18-4 run from the Irish. Coming out of the break, Notre Dame’s sharp­shooters quickly put the contest out of reach, as Hansbrough hit two 3-pointers and fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis added one more before the first media timeout. 
“One of the things we wanted to do was come out and set the tone,” Hansbrough said. “And leave it all on the court. I think we did that.” 
Senior guard Scott Martin fol­lowed Hansbrough as Notre Dame’s second-leading scorer with 15, while senior forward Tyrone Nash added 8 rebounds. Nash also hit the first 3-pointer of his four-year career as the shot clock expired late in the first half, part of Notre Dame’s deciding run, on his way to 10 points. Nash’s only previous attempt came nearly exactly three years ago in a 95-69 Irish victory at Seton Hall on Feb. 6, 2008. 
Abromaitis added 13 points for the Irish, who as a team shot 50.9 percent from the field 
DePaul remains winless in conference play this season, but the lopsided win provides the same value to Notre Dame’s record as the nail-biter win over Pittsburgh did. 
“It’s another Big East win,” Hansbrough said. “I told the guys before we played, ‘This is another Big East win.’ They all count the same so we need to treat them the same.” 
Notre Dame’s two-game road trip, with its nine-day layover included, ends as the Irish will host Rutgers Sunday at noon and No. 15 Louisville Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Doubles 
continued from page 16 
with four consecutive victories to beat Notre Dame, 4-1. 
“We did not execute or play well against Illinois,” Sachire said. “It’s important that we step up and play like we can.” 
The Blue Devils are yet another ranked opponent that the Irish will face in the early part of the spring season. 
“We need to play well and compete well,” Sachire said. “Duke is very well-coached and has a lot of talent. We will be in the match if we play and exe­cute like we are capable of. Duke is certainly one of the more talented teams on our schedule.” 
The Blue Devils qualified for the Indoor Championships with a tournament win last week­end. The championships will be held in two weeks. 
The doubleheader Sunday will be the first of a string of matches the Irish will compete in over the course of the next couple weeks. On Tuesday, Notre Dame will play at Big Ten competitor Wisconsin before playing Michigan State and Marquette in East Lansing, Mich., next weekend. 
The Irish will face Duke at 12 
p.m. and Toledo at 6 p.m Sunday at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Friday, February 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
rebounder in the Big East implement a similar style up, really trying to break your Rutgers (12 -9, 5-3) next with a 9.6 rebounds per game offense. Both teams like to rhythm. It should be a Saturday before traveling to 
Smith 
continued from page 16 
had a sensational year. She’s a first-team Big East type of player. She’s quick, she can shoot the three, get to the basket. She’s as good as any of the guards in the Big East. She’s going to create some problems for our defense.” 
In addition to Smith’s scor­ing ability from the perimeter and her quickness through the lane, No. 8 Notre Dame (19-4, 8-1 Big East) will have the additional task of contain­ing post presence Porche Grant. Listed as a true center, Grant is the second-leading average. 
The Irish have faced a num­ber of talented posts thus far in the conference season, and McGraw has once again tabbed senior forward Becca Bruszewski to lead the defen­sive effort against the Bulls (10-12, 1-7). 
“[Grant] is a great rebound­er,” McGraw said. “She’s got size, and she’s just so athletic. We’ve played some other good posts that Becca Bruszewski has done a really good job on, so she’s going to get the chal­lenge of guarding her again.” 
While their conference records are nearly mirror 
opposites, the two squads run the floor, score in transi-matchup of two up-tempo tion and put teams.” pressure on While Notre the defense to Dame has ben­
“This team, especially 
come up with efited from a key stops. with the leadership of competitive lull 
“They’re an Becca, has really come by racking up 
up-tempo six straight 
out every game and
team,” wins in the McGraw said. been ready, no matter conference, the “They like to who we’re playing.” schedule heats run, they’ll up following press. They Saturday’s con-
Muffet McGraw 
create a lot of test against the different Irish Head Coach Bulls and a things defen-home matchup sively. They’ll against a Seton play some Hall team that man, they’ll play some zone. remains winless in the confer­They’ll really try to mix things ence. Notre Dame will host 


By MATT DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The blizzard that postponed all MIAA games on Wednesday night cast a chill over South Bend — and over Saint Mary’s shooting. The Belles (14-7, 7-5 MIAA) fell 79-59 to No. 3/4 Hope on Thursday night at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Flying Dutch (19-1, 10-1) 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Flying Dutch triumph over Belles 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer Freshman Jennifer Kellner swings in the Eck Classic on Oct. 3, 2010. The Irish take on North Carolina and Wake Forest this weekend. 
held Saint Mary’s to 18-of-60 (30 percent) shooting from the field and 1-of-9 shooting from the 3­point line. 
Hope senior center Carrie Snikkers led all scorers with 22 points, including 17 in the first half, and chipped in 10 rebounds. Snikkers scored nine of the Dutch’s first 13 points, staking them to an early 13-4 lead. 
“She’s a real nice player. She kept them going, she kept them in it in the first half,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “When you have a post player like that with a soft touch inside and can hit it from the outside, that’s a hard per­son to defend.” 
Following a layup by Hope sen­ior forward Rachael Kutney that pushed the lead to 14, the Belles responded by cutting the lead to eight before halftime. Just two minutes into the second half, two free throws by junior guard Patsy Mahoney trimmed the Dutch advantage to 4. 
The Belles’ 18-8 run, which spanned 7:30 over both halves, got them back in the game. But that was the closest they would get. Hope used timely transition points to pull away from Saint Mary’s. 
“We tried to slow them down a little bit, tried to limit their posses­sions,” Henley said. “Every time we kept knocking on that door and closing that gap, we gave up some No. 2 Connecticut (21-1, 9-0). 
McGraw said her players take each game with the same approach — preparation and determination. 
“This team, especially with the leadership of Becca, has really come out every game and been ready, no matter who we’re playing,” McGraw said. “That’s just great leader­ship. They don’t look past anyone. They look forward to the challenge of playing everybody.” 
The Irish face the Bulls at 7 
p.m. Saturday in Tampa. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
easy transition points and seemed to kill us down the stretch.” 
Junior forward Kelley Murphy led the Belles with 16 points and 14 rebounds while co-MIAA Player of the Week junior guard Maggie Ronan was held to eight points on just 2-for-5 shooting. Despite the loss, Henley was still proud of her team. 
“They battled, they do not quit and they were here ready to com­pete tonight,” Henley said. “I give our kids all the credit in the world. I’ll go to battle with them any day.” 
The Belles hit the hardwood next against Trine (7-13, 5-7) on Saturday. Saint Mary’s beat the Thunder 74-53 earlier this year behind Ronan’s then-career-high 23 points. 
“Saturday’s a big day for us,” Henley said. “It’s Senior Day and we’ll be honoring our two seniors Grace [Sadowski] and Liz [Wade].” 
Henley said that the prep time for Saturday’s game will be very beneficial. 
“We’re going to work a lot on our defense to try to slow them down a little bit,” Henley said. “We’ll also look to take advantage of our height advantage against Trine.” 
Tip-off is set for 3 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Matt DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

Road 
continued from page 16 
ers from a year ago so it was good to see how we played under pres­sure.” 
The challenge of playing on the road this weekend is more tangible than most. 
“This week [the challenge] is get­ting out of town because of the snow,” Louderback said. 
On the other hand, playing on the road brings a unique element to the team dynamic. 
“It is good for us to go on the road because we need to spend some time together and have to compete in front of our opponents’ crowds,” Louderback said. 
North Carolina is 3-0 on the sea­son with wins over Elon, DePaul and No. 15 Georgia. Wake Forest is 2-1 with wins over Winthrop and East Tennessee State and a loss to Virginia. Neither team has faced an opponent of Notre Dame’s caliber so this weekend’s matchups create interesting stories on both sides of the net. 
The Irish square off with North Carolina at 12 p.m. Saturday in Chapel Hill and then take on Wake Forest at 11 a.m. Sunday in Winston-Salem. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 4, 2011 
FENCING 

IrishseektomaintaintoprankingsatNorthwestern 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
As the top-ranked team in the country, it goes without saying that expectations for the Irish are sky -high. Coach Janusz Bednarski wouldn’t have it any other way. Both the men ’s and women’s fencing teams head into the Northwestern duals this weekend as the best in the land, and both are determined to keep it that way. 
“For the men, it will be about solidifying our spot as the best in the country, ” Bednarski said. “For the women, it will be to contin­ue our unbeaten streak.” 
Both teams have been dominant in the early part of the season and will look to continue their winning ways as they travel to Northwestern on Saturday. The meet will feature, among others, Northwestern, Princeton, Stanford, Temple, North Carolina, Air Force and Temple. It will be a tough contest for an Irish men’s team coping with the loss of star junior Gerek Meinhardt, who will not compete for the remainder 
of the year due to injury. Meinhardt, who competes in 
t h e  f o i l ,  w a s  a n  N C A A  
c h a m p i o n  a n d  a  U . S .  
O l y m p i a n  i n  2 0 0 8 .  

Bednarski, however, is far from worried. 
“We certainly have other fencers who can step up,” he said. “It will be good to see some younger fencers get an opportunity.” 
The women should also be favored to win, building on a prodigious win streak that has lasted the whole year. 
Eager to compete for the national championship they missed last year, the women should fare well against some stiff competition. Stanford and Princeton both float near the top of the polls on both the men’s and women’s sides and should be the Irish’s main competi­tion come Saturday, 
“They are two very strong teams,” Bednarski said. With conference champi­
onships in just about a month, the Irish are looking to use this weekend as a springboard to a potential championship season. The next few days should help show whether or not that dream can become a reality. The Northwestern duals will take place Saturday and Sunday in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
MLB 
Pettitte retires from Yankees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Andy Pettitte is going ahead with his decision to retire, leaving the New York Yankees with two huge holes in what appears to be a rather wob­bly starting rotation. 
The team scheduled a Friday morning news conference at Yankee Stadium for Pettitte to announce the choice he had been leaning toward making since the end of last season. 
“I don’t think enough people know that he’s still the leader of this pitching staff until today,” former Yankees right fielder Paul O’Neill said in a telephone inter­view with The Associated Press. 
A five-time World Series cham­pion, Pettitte became the third­winningest pitcher in team histo­ry. 
“Andy was probably the con­summate team player,” former Yankees manager Joe Torre said. “He’s been a huge favorite of mine because he’s such a standup guy, and he hasn’t changed from day one. He’s a great teammate, and I think that’s why he won so many games. The guys that play behind him understand how intense he is, and it becomes contagious.” 
Pettitte won’t disappear from public view entirely. He is expect­ed to be a witness this summer at the trial of former teammate Roger Clemens, indicted on charges he lied to a congression­al committee when he denied using performance-enhancing drugs. 
Pettitte admitted using human growth hormone and said Clemens told him he had used HGH. Clemens testified Pettitte didn’t remember the conversa­tion correctly. 
Clemens said Thursday he has­n’t been able to speak with Pettitte lately because of the ongoing case. But he insisted he held no hard feelings toward Pettitte and congratulated him on his career. 



Friday, February 4, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, February 4, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Demons downed 
No. 8 Notre Dame vaults intoBigEastsecondplace 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
ROSEMONT, Ill. — No. 9 Notre Dame moved into second place in the Big East with a 83­58 victory over DePaul Thursday night at Allstate Arena. 
The Irish (18-4, 7-3 Big East) have only won two games on the road all season, their last two, and this trend-changer has raised Notre Dame above the five other teams in the confer­ence with six wins, at least for the time being. 
“I’m proud of our group. We talked about our goal of win­ning two-in-a-row on the road,” Irish coach Mike Brey said after the game. “This group has done a lot this year, but hasn’t done that yet. I think our leadership did a great job.” 

Senior guard Ben Hansbrough led the Irish with AP 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough drives to the hoop in the frst half of Notre Dame’s 83-58 victory see IRISH/page 12 over DePaul Thursday night. Hansbrough scored 28 points and hit fve 3-point shots. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish look to recover from loss 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Despite the cold currently experienced in the South Bend winter, the season is heating up for the Irish, as they will play a doubleheader Sunday, as they host No. 14 Duke and Toledo. 
“Duke is very good,” associ­ate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “They’re a top 15 team this year and they were a top 15 team last year when they went to the Sweet Sixteen. They are loaded from top to bottom.” 
Part of the challenge for the Irish will be getting the bad taste out of their mouth from a weekend loss to No. 16 Illinois. 
Freshman Greg Andrews and junior Casey Watt won a dou­bles match to give the Irish an early 1-0 advantage. The Illini, however, finished the match 
see DOUBLES/page 12 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Meyo Invitational marks last chance for Big East qualification 
ken, nation-leading times set and omore Jeremy Rae, who is hop-the event last year, and will look Hoosiers will pose a particularly 
By JACK HEFFERON 
great performances across the ing to follow up a win at the to build upon that finish this time stiff challenge for Notre Dame, as 
Sports Writer 
board. The meet also served as a Indiana Relays and Big East ath-around. On the women’s side of both their men’s and women’s 
last-chance qualifier for several lete of the week honors with the meet, sophomore Nevada teams are ranked in the Top 20 

The Irish will return home this Notre Dame athletes, on whose another great performance. Rae Sorenson will look to claim the in the latest NCAA rankings. weekend for the 24th annual strength the men’s team was able will run in the extremely compet-60-meter hurdles after finishing “Usually it’s a higher level of Meyo Invitational, their last to win the Big East indoor cham-itive Meyo Mile, which featured a second last year. competition, and there’s always a chance to qualify and prepare for pionship, while the women winning time under four minutes The Irish will face stiff competi-lot of good teams that come in,” the Big East championships. turned in a strong showing to fin-last year. tion throughout the weekend, as Hills said. 
“As far as non-championship ish sixth. Another hotly contested race several elite collegiate teams The meet will begin Friday at 5 meets go, this is one of the best in With last year in mind, the will be the Ryan Shay 3,000-from around the country will be p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center, the country,” junior thrower Irish understand the importance meter run. The race honors Shay, in attendance. Illinois, Michigan, and will continue 10 a.m. Andy Hills said. of a strong showing at the a 2001 graduate who excelled for Western Michigan, Marquette, Saturday. 
Last year’s version of the Invitational this weekend. One the Irish, earning All-American Vanderbilt and Indiana are Invitational was an exceptionally Irish athlete who will be looking honors an incredible nine times. among the many collegiate teams Contact Jack Hefferon at fast meet, with track records bro-for a strong performance is soph-Junior Joe Miller finished 11th in entered in the meet. The wheffero@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
McGraw prepared for Bulls 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
While South Bend remains enveloped in snow, the Irish head to warmer climates to take on a South Florida team seeking its second conference win of the season. 
Despite their struggles in the win-loss column, the Bulls feature a number of premiere players that Irish coach Muffet McGraw believes could cause potential mismatches on the floor. 
South Florida guard Andrea Smith ranks third in confer­ence scoring, averaging 17 points per game. 
“[The Bulls] have played really well,” McGraw said. 
see SMITH/page 13 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame ready to bounce back in N.C. 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 4 Irish experienced something Sunday that they are not quite used to: a loss. This weekend, Notre Dame (2-1) looks to bounce back from a surprise defeat to No. 23 Arkansas as they face No. 6 North Carolina and Wake Forest in the Tar Heel State. 
“North Carolina was a final four team last year and will be tough on the road,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “They are well-coached and always compete really well.” 
The Demon Deacons, although not ranked as high as Notre Dame and the Tar Heels, will still pose a challenge to the visiting Irish. 
“Wake Forest has a new coach with a few new players so we don’t know a whole lot about them,” Louderback said. “They are usually a tough team to play indoors at their place.” 
More than anything, Louderback said, the loss to Arkansas Sunday was an awak­ening for a team that had not encountered any adversity in the early going, allowing them to see those areas that need improve­ment. 
“I think we learned some things about our team and what we need to work on,” Louderback said. “We have some new doubles teams and some new singles play-
see ROAD/page 13 










