the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Unrest continues in Egypt; ND students evacuate 

Notre Dame students future of Egyptian 
Professor discusses the 

moved to safe haven government; ‘result of 
in Istanbul from 30 years of harsh rule’ 
university in Cairo 
Observer Staff Report 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 

Twelve Notre Dame stu ­The current political turmoil 
dents were evacuated from in Egypt is a result of 30 years 
Cairo to Istanbul Monday of harsh rule under President 
night, according to a Hosni Mubarak, according to 
University press release. Emad Shahin, professor of reli-
The students, who were gion, conflict and peacebuilding 
participating in a Notre at Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute. 
Dame study abroad program “What is going on is a popu­
at the American University in lar uprising that is aspiring to 
Cairo (AUC), were among change Mubarak’s regime that 
many American citizens has been in power for the past 
evacuated on charter flights 
AP 

An anti-government protester holds a banner in Tharir square in downtown Cairo Monday. Opposition groups see EGYPT/page 5 have called for a million people to take the streets today in protest against President Hosni Mubarak. see UPDATE/page 5 


Legacy Square condos not open to students 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer A bulldozer covered in snow sits next to the site of the Legacy Square condiminiums, which will not be open to students. 
Observer Staff Report 
The City of South Bend is preparing for the winter storm expected Tuesday and Wednesday and anticipates issuing a Snow Emergency in the next two days, according to a Monday media advisory. 
One to two inches of snow could accumulate during the day Tuesday in St. Joseph County, with an additional 11 to 12 inches Tuesday night, according to the National Weather Service. 
“In anticipation of the next round of heavy snow and ice, the city’s Snow-Control Team met this morning with Police, Fire and South Bend Community School Corporation to finalize, in advance, strategies to deal with the winter storm expected over the next few days,” the City’s media advi­sory stated. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame makes daily weather-related closure decisions around 5 a.m. 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke asked all South Bend 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
While the controversial Legacy Square condominium project will continue, its future occupants will not be Notre Dame students, as originally planned. 
According to student body president Catherine Soler, the condominiums will be finished and marketed to owner-occu­pants, not for lease to students. 
“The concern [of the commu­
see LEGACY/page 6 




Winter storm to strike area 
residents to plan ahead, exercise caution while driv­ing, clear sidewalks as quickly as possible and avoid driving on all main thoroughfares once snow 
see WEATHER/page 6 

DeBartolo Hall home to ‘experimental’ classroom 
active learning environment. Cichos of OIT’s Technology Learning Spaces division, the controlling what appears on 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 

Several divisions within the Enhanced Learning Spaces goal is for the room to be as each screen, multiple sets of 
News Writer 

Office of Information division designed the room flexible as possible and to keyboards and mice, and a Technology (OIT), the Office of based on recommendations encourage active learning. document camera. 
A new experimental class-the Registrar, Academic Space from the various groups and “The idea of active learning The computers and screens room, B011 DeBartolo Hall, is Management, the University similar classrooms at schools is that students need to be can be connected in any way redefining the classroom Council of Academic like the Massachusetts participants, not simply peo-— one computer screen can experience, and yes, anyone Technology (UCAT) and the Institute of Technology, the ple who receive information,” be displayed on all viewing can write on the walls. Kaneb Center for Teaching University of Minnesota and Burchett said. screens, each viewing screen 
Room B011 is the result of and Learning collaborated in the University of Michigan. The room features multiple can display a different com-multiple groups on campus the design and funding of According to Brian viewing screens, eight puter screen, or any arrange-working together to create an B011. Burchett, manager of OIT’s Macintosh computers, a innovative, imaginative and Jason Railton and Tim Technology Enhanced touch-screen control panel for see DEBARTOLO/page 6 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER St. Liam’s prepares for flu page 3  Roller derby roughs up South Bend page 10  Women’s basketball faces Syracuse page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 1, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF I GAVE YOU AN ELEPHANT, WHERE WOULD YOU HIDE IT?

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Allen Emily Schrank Andrew Owens Carly Landon Cory Bernard 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Maria Fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 
(Not here yet) Meghan Thomassen 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Allison Jeter 
sophomore Pangborn 
“In a Swiss bank account.” 


Anthony Cheung 
sophomore Sorin 

“In my loft.” 

Brenna Williams 
junior 
Badin 
“Carroll.” 

Bri Neblung 
sophomore Badin 
“The great hall of O’Shag.” 

Rob Carter 
junior 
Dillon 
“In the bell tower of Morrissey because no one would ever think to look there.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer Men from the Notre Dame boxing team undergo physical conditioning to prepare for the Bengal Bouts Tournament, which raises money for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 
OFFBEAT 

Musician rescues Miami piano from sandbar 
MIAMI — A baby grand piano is gone again from a Miami sandbar after a musi­cian rescued the battered instrument for his son. 
A towing crew took the piano Thursday. Its appear­ance on the sandbar in early January was a mystery until 16-year-old Nicholas Harrington stepped forward this week to say he put it there as an art project. 
State wildlife officials had served the Harringtons with orders to remove it within 24 hours. But musician Carl Bentulan got there first. 
Bentulan told The Miami Herald he plans to eventual­ly put the piano in his living room. He said his 10-year­old son insisted the piano needed a home. 
It was unclear if the Harringtons will seek cus­tody. But towing company owner Lynn Mitchell says maritime law gives posses­sion to whoever pays to sal­vage something abandoned at sea. 
Mexican gangs hurl pot into US using catapults 
HERMOSILLO, Mexico — Drug smugglers are using an ancient invention as a new way to move marijua­na across the border from Mexico to Arizona. 
The discovery of two “drug catapults” in the Mexican state of Sonora marks the latest twist in the cat-and­mouse game traffickers play with authorities. 
U.S. National Guard troops operating a remote surveil­lance system at the Naco Border Patrol Station say they observed several people preparing a catapult and launching packages over the fence late last week. 
A Mexican army officer says the 3-yard (3-meter) tall catapult was found about 20 yards (20 meters) from the U.S. border on a flatbed towed by a sports utility vehicle. 
The officer says the cata­pult was capable of launch­ing 4.4 pounds (2 kilograms) of marijuana at a time. He says soldiers seized 35 pounds (16 kilograms) of pot, the vehicle and the cata­pult. 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 

HIGH 22 HIGH 17 HIGH 22 HIGH 12 LOW 17 LOW 12 LOW 9 LOW 8 

Liz Pawlak 
junior Pangborn 
“The Pangborn storage room.” 
IN BRIEF 
Rulian Guo will be giving a seminar titled “High-perform­ance Polymer Membranes in Fuel Cells and Gas Separation” today from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m in DeBartolo 129. Guo is a post­doctoral associate in the Department of Chemistry’s Macromolecules and Interfaces Institute at Virginia Tech. 
RecSports will be hosting a “Train for Your First 1/2 Marathon Workshop” today at Rolfs from 5:15 to 6:45 in the RSRC Classroom. This is a great way to learn tips for training and develop a training schedule in time for the Holy Half. 
The Career Center’s “Winter Career and Internship Fair & Diversity Reception” scheduled for tomorrow from 4 to 8 p.m. has been postponed due to extreme weather conditions. See the Career Center’s website for updates on the reschedul­ing. 
Reference Librarian Margaret Porter will present a workshop called “Find it in the Newspapers” tomorrow from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in Room 222 of Hesburgh Library, Porter shows how to efficiently locate current and historical newspaper arti­cles. 
Professor Mark Noll and Associate Professor Brad Gregory will present on “Evangelicals and Catholics Together? Some Real Progress But Some Real Problems Too” tomorrow from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. Noll and Gregory are from Notre Dame’s department of history. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


Friday Saturday 


Tuesday, February 1, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



RecSports uses survey to gauge student needs 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
RecSports will release its first Student Voice survey to students randomly chosen from the University popula­tion in order to obtain feed­back on the RecSports pro­grams and facilities today. 
“We’re always interested in trying to make our pro­grams better and it’s really hard to reach people who don’t participate,” RecSports Fitness Coordinator Shellie Dodd-Bell said. “We really wanted to find out from everyone, or at least a ran­dom sample of campus, what you like about RecSports, what makes you participate, and if you don’t, why don’t you?” 
Dodd-Bell said she hopes the survey will help provide 

RecSp orts “First and foremost, it does this 
with direction is about satisfaction, makes them for improve-and then gives 
so we should learn
ment. us not only 
“The ulti -where people are feedback 
mate goal is to really happy with our about Notre be able to look Dame stu­
programs and
at the statisti-dents and 
facilities.” 
cal data and employees, make the but also how changes nec-Sally Derengoski we rank rela­essary to tive to other 
director
improve our universities. It 
RecSports 
program as should really 
Research, Dodd-Bell said. 
“Since there are other sur­veys that are also going out, we wanted to make sure we didn’t bombard the same people and overwhelm them,” Dodd-Bell said. “Once the survey is received by the selected group, stu­dents will have a week and a half until a reminder is sent out to them which will give them another week and a half, so they’ll have a total of three weeks to finish it,” Dodd-Bell said. 
Derengoski said this sur­vey has been done in univer­sities across the nation and has led to great results. 
“We’re actually one of about 100 universities that has participated in this sur­vey,” Derengoski said. “It’s a survey that has been created for rec programs all over the country. The company that 
soon as possi­ble, “ Dodd ­Bell said. “We can use the survey as statistical evidence that certain amenities are needed in order to justify why certain expenditures are needed down the road.” 
Director of RecSports Sally Derengoski said she would like to see a place where everyone can be satisfied. 
“First and foremost, it is about satisfaction, so we should learn about where people are really happy with our programs and facilities and where we need improve­ment,” Derengoski said. 
The survey will be sent out to a sample of students selected by Notre Dame’s Department of Institutional give us some 

great direc­tion with our program.” 
The students selected to take the survey have not only the chance to provide feedback, but also the opportunity to win various prizes. 
Every student who com­pletes the survey will receive a free order of breadsticks from Papa John’s and a free appetizer from Granite City Food and Brewery in Mishawaka, Dodd-Bell said. There will also be a drawing to win $500 certificates to Meijer and an iPod touch, she said. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 





St. Liam’s prepares for flu 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
A rising number of influenza cases in the South Bend area has prompted Notre Dame Health Services to prepare for a spike in the number of visits Notre Dame students make to St. Liam’s Hall in the next few weeks. 
Mary Ellen McCaslin, assistant director of clinical services, said Health Services has noticed the appearance of influenza strains on campus over the last two weeks. 
“We do what is called a QuickFlu Test and we have had some positives in the last few weeks,” McCaslin said. “We expect to follow the trends seen in surrounding regions, which indi­cate a rise in the incidences of influenza cases.” 
Despite the expected escalation of flu cases, McCaslin said Notre Dame is in a much better position than last year. 
“The H1N1 Swine Flu that we saw last year is not showing itself this year. It caused a bit of a panic in the college health sector and the public as well,” she said. “People were nervous, but that outbreak was certainly not what was predicted.” 
McCaslin said she predicts H1N1 will remain absent, though a mutation might reveal itself at some point. 
“We were just reviewing infor­mation from the CDC website today and saw that the H1N1 has mutated into what the CDC is now calling H3N9 or N3 right now,” she said. “That’s the kind of flu we expect to see.” 
Though mutations occur, telltale signs of the flu are the same as 
always, she said. Students should be on the lookout “This is a for fevers, sore self-limiting illness throats, 
that will run its
headaches, chills 
course as all viruses
and fatigue. Once detected, the do.” usual course of action may be 
Mary Ellen McCaslin 
taken to expedite 
assistant director
the duration of the illness, though Clinical Services there is no instant cure for the flu. 
Tamiflu, is rumored to accelerate recovery, though McCaslin said it is not markedly better than tradi­tional treatment methods. 
“The effectiveness of Tamiflu if pretty limited,” she said. “All it does is reduce the duration of the illness by one to three days.” 
Other parts of Indiana have demonstrated surges in illness and virus activity, said McCaslin, 
demonstrating a development in this year’s flu sea­son. 
In anticipation of the next few weeks, McCaslin said Health Services encour­ages students to practice flu pre­vention with good hygiene. 
“The best thing that anyone can 
do is to sneeze and cough into your elbow and not into your hands. Alcohol-based hand rubs are a great way to keep germs under control, but washing your hands vigorously with soap and water is still the best way to reduce germs,” she said. “Stay away from people who are sick if possible, and use common sense.” 
“This is a self-limiting illness that will run its course as all viruses do,” McCaslin said. “They are not effectively treated by antibiotics because it is not a bac­teria, it is a virus.” 
McCaslin said treatment — except in extreme situations — is generally the same. Rest and flu­ids, accompanied by Tylenol or Ibuprofen to control the fever allow the illness to run its course. A new product on the market, 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 



SDB hosts dessert night 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Desserts from around the world were offered at Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board’s (SDB) event “Sugar Makes the World Go ‘Round.” 
Foods from a variety of coun­tries were made available in Reignbeaux Lounge in Le Mans Hall at 7 p.m. Monday. 
Senior Karolyn Wojtowicz and junior Christine Brown were responsible for planning the event. Wojtowicz serves as SDB’s international student rep­resentative and admissions commissioner, and Brown works with the publicity department for the Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC). 
The event offered students desserts from regions such as Africa, Europe, the Caribbean and Asia and served as the first big event of the semester for SDB. 
Sodexo helped sponsor the event by providing the food. 
Each dessert had a place card saying where it was from. In addition, Wojtowicz explained that descriptions of the origins of the desserts as well as recipes were available. 
“We also added the little infor­mation sheets, and we have a recipe on each of them and a lit­tle bit of cultural information,” she said. “So it’s not just here’s some food, have fun, goodbye. People can actually now learn how to make something if they do want to go home and make it. “ 
Wojtowicz said she thought the event would help teach stu­dents about other cultures through food. 
“It’s really cool,” she said. “It allows people to know what churros are and they really enjoy them, or they really like éclairs, and it kind of gives peo­ple an idea as to learn more about other cultures while eat­ing desserts and have fun.” 
Brown agreed, adding she hoped students could “expand their learning of other cultures.” 
Brown said the event has been held in the past, but this year new desserts were added to cre­ate diversity. 
This years’ event offered sev­eral new desserts including Pineapple Fool, a dessert from Africa, and Krusciki, an Eastern European treat. 
According to Wojtowicz, the event allows students to get to know members of SDB while enjoying a sweet treat. 
“Events like this kind of raise awareness about Student Diversity Board and it also makes learning about other cul­tures more fun,” she said. 
Wojtowicz said SDB plans to host a variety of events in the coming months including a week to draw awareness to dis­abilities and Women’s Appreciation Week in February and DSLC in March. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



NEH fellowship success returns 
Special to The Observer 
Two University of Notre Dame professors—historian Thomas 
F.X. Noble and theologian Eugene Ulrich been awarded National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) fellowships for 2011-12. 
“It’s a big honor,” says Noble, chair of the Department of History and former director of the Medieval Institute in the College of Arts and Letters. “I’m very pleased to continue the line here at Notre Dame. We’ve done quite well with the NEH over the years.” 
Notre Dame has been awarded 44 NEH fellowships between 1999 and 2011 — more than any other university in the country. The University of Michigan has been second to Notre Dame with 35 NEH fellowships during that 12-year period, followed by Harvard University at 26, Princeton University at 22, and the University of California, Berkeley, at 19. 
NEH fellowships support advanced research that con­tributes to scholarly knowledge or to the general public’s under­standing of the humanities. Recipients usually produce arti­cles, monographs on specialized subjects, books on broad topics, archaeological site reports, trans­lations, editions, or other scholar­ly tools. 
Noble’s NEH fellowship is for a book called “Rome in the Medieval Imagination,” which will explore how medieval people thought about Rome. 
“My book should be of value to medievalists of every kind because every medievalist encounters Rome, but no one has had a guidebook for those encounters,” Noble says. “There’s really no book that someone can take off the shelf and say, ‘What did medieval people actually think about Rome? What did Rome mean to them? What valence did it possess?’” 
The book is not a history of Rome, but is meant to provide insights on the medieval people who expressed such varying opin­ions about it, Noble says. “I’m actually not interested particular­ly in whether anybody was right or wrong but in why they said the things they did.” 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuessday, February 1, 2011 


ND biologists call for plant regulation 
Special to The Observer 
People are increasingly 
obtaining endangered or threatened plants, often ille­gally, and moving them out­side their native range, according to an article pub­lished this week in the jour­nal Nature by Patrick Shirey and Gary Lamberti in the Department of Biological Sciences at the University of Notre Dame. 
According to their research last year, nearly 10 percent of the 753 plants listed as threatened and endangered under the U.S. Endangered Species Act are being sold — 
or, at least, advertised — online. Many buyers are hor­ticulturalists who want flow­ers for their gardens. But increasingly, anecdotal evi­dence suggests that online shoppers include individuals and citizen groups involved in ‘assisted colonization ’ projects. Here, species or genetic subtypes at risk of extinction are moved to non­native environments in which they might thrive — in the face of climate change, for instance. 
Some private groups who want to protect the plants, such as the Torreya Guardians, are legally plant­ing seedlings of the Florida torreya outside its current range to aid species conser­vation. However, Shirey urges government agencies to take more of a leadership role to monitor transloca ­tions because of the risks associated with introducing new species. The widespread transfer of endangered or threatened plants poses both environmental and economic risks. 
Shirey and Lamberti cite other studies reporting that damage from invasive plant species costs more than $30 billion in the United States by damaging crops, pastures and ecosystems. One example is the Australian paperbark tree which is a noxious weed in the United States that causes millions of dollars of damage, although its native habitats in Australia are con­sidered threatened due to coastal development. The transfer of plants to new environments can also spread plant pathogens and pests. 
Shirey and Lamberti warn of the dangers of unchecked species redistribution and urge the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to better monitor the movement of plants around the world and enforce existing legislation. Shirey says, “Environmental agencies and governing bod­ies must better enforce exist­ing species protection laws, and establish new legal frameworks to monitor and manage this rising tide of species redistribution.” 
As a first step in enforcing existing legislation, Shirey says that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service should estab­lish surveillance teams to monitor online transactions. Secondly, the agency should restrict consumers’ ability to purchase hybrids bred from endangered species which have serious implications— good and bad—for wild popu­lations. On a worldwide scale, exporting and import­ing countries should ensure the enforcement of domestic laws such as the Convention 
on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. 


Group raises funds for Riley hospital 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon is selling its gear in the Student Center Atrium to help raise awareness for its main event — a 12-hour dance-a-thon to raise money for Riley’s Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
The sale will run Tuesday and Wednesday during lunch and dinner hours in the Student Center Atrium, said Kelli Minor, Dance Marathon fundraising chair. 
Dance Marathon sells gear emblazoned with the logo “EMX” 
— the Greek letters for “SMC.” 
“Currently, we are selling 2009­10 EMX hooded sweatshirts, 2008, 2009 and 2010 Trot for Tots 5K shirts, red classy and fab­ulous shirts, SMC Dance Marathon bracelets and Riley pins,” Minor said. “The hoodies are $20, all shirts are $5, the bracelets and pins are $1.” 
Minor said the next big event will be Riley week, which will take place from Feb. 14-18. 
“Each day there will be various ways to become involved in [Dance Marathon] and also to raise awareness for the patients and families at Riley,” she said. 
According to Minor, Monday will feature an arts and crafts fair, and Tuesday a miss-a-meal night, when students can use a meal swipe as a donation to Riley. Wednesday will include door dec­orating and Thursday will be a salon night, with Friday serving as a campus-wide “Wear Red for Riley” day, she said. 
This will be the fourth annual Dance Marathon, which will take place on March 5, Minor said. Students interested in participat­ing can already register. 
“Pre-registration has already begun and anyone can register at any time. To get a dancer packet, students can e-mail the Dance Marathon account,” Minor said. 
The group’s e-mail is dmarathn@saintmarys.edu and registration is $15 for dancers, she said. 
The events will take place from noon to midnight and check-in begins at 11 a.m. in the Student Center. 
“The event includes games, bands, prizes, arts and crafts, as well as the opportunity to listen to Riley families speak,” Minor said. 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 



Tuesday, February 1, 2011 The Observer  NEWS page 5 


Egypt 
continued from page 1 
three decades,” he said. “He has been suppressing freedoms and ruling the country with an iron fist.” 
Shahin said the events in Egypt are similar to those experienced in Communist Europe, at the end of the Cold War. 
“I think we are witnessing a movement similar movement to the uprising in Eastern Europe against pro—Soviet dictator­ships,” he said. “It is mainly a movement that is pro—change and seeking to change the regime from an outdated one to free and democratic.” 
Unlike the events in Soviet Europe, the events in Europe have been driven by technology in order to organize the motives of change, Shahin said. The Egyptian government responded to these movements by ordering Internet service providers to shut down from the Internet, the last one com­plying Monday. 
Though the protests began as a youth movement organized largely through social media Shahin said they have spread to all spectrums of Egyptian society since Jan. 25. 
“In general, this uprising has drawn diverse segments of society from different classes, from different backgrounds, from different ages, even dif­ferent ideological [areas],” he said. “It has managed to spread from the north to the south of the country.” 
Shahin said the movement against Mubarak’s regime started as peaceful, but was met with brutal force by the Egyptian president. This has caused the situation to esca­late, providing many of the vio­lent images being broadcast around the world. 
“[This forced] some of the demonstrators to target the symbols of suppression in the street and in the country,” Shahin said. “Some started to burn headquarters of the state party, the National Democratic Party. These are the fires we are seeing on television.” 
Security police have pulled out of their duties, Shahin said, leading to a state of anarchy Mubarak hopes will aid him in retaining power. There have also been accusations of the current regime intentionally releasing prisoners. 

“It is the very simple equa­tion of liberty versus security,” Shahin said. “Mubarak’s regime tried to create a state of insecurity at the expense of lib­erty so people would wish for security and forget about liber­ty.” 
Despite the chaos on the streets of Egypt, Shahin said the people of Egypt have taken it upon themselves to secure districts from violence. 
“As a result of the break­down and the spread of anar­chy, the people themselves have started to organize in order to protect neighborhoods and ensure that order and security are maintained,” he said. 
Mubarak has responded to calls from the opposition to relinquish power by taking the unprecedented step of appoint­ing a vice—president, Shahin said. 
“At the political level, the Mubarak regime, bowing down to popular pressures, dis­missed the government,” he said. “He appointed a vice— president, something he has resisted to do for the past 30 years.” 
Shahin said the past few days have been especially difficult because the current govern­ment and those seeking change have not been able to make progress. 
“The military stepped in, so what we have now is a military led government that is sup­posed to restore order,” he said. “This has not happened because the people were deter­mined to continue their pres­sure and their pro—democracy protests. We are having a kind of a stalemate.” 
Egypt is second only to Israel in terms of monetary aid received from the United States. However, Shahin said the position of the American government toward Egypt has changed in the past few days. 
“The United States position started to shift,” he said. “As events started to unfold, the position of the United States became much more galvanized around the possibility of seeing smooth and peaceful transition to a government that would respond to the democratic aspirations of Egyptians.” 
Shahin there are two possible outcomes to the current con­flict in Egypt. The first involves Mubarak retaining power through violent military sup­pression of the pro—democrat­ic demonstrators, he said. 
“The more likely scenario that we will see soon, perhaps within the next 48 hours, is that the people themselves will be able to hang on and stead­fastly press with their demands until they succeed in bringing down Mubarak’s regime,” Shahin said. 
Shahin said the political implications will not be felt in Egypt or the Middle East alone, but all across the world. 
“The implications would be tremendous. Egypt is a heavy­weight in the region,” he said. “Internationally, the Europeans and the Americans are faced with a [situation] where the status quo cannot be main­tained. They will have to start formulating a new position depending on the nature of the government.” 
Shahin said Egyptians are capable of handling the situa­tion without international intervention. 
“This is an internal issue,” he said. 
Egyptians must handle this issue on their own, Shahin said, because the protestor’s desired changes are revolu­tionary. 
“Egyptians are rising up in protest in a revolt,” he said. “I think now it is really a revolu­tion in order to change the three decade long autocratic and oppressive system and institute a democratic one.” 
Though Egypt is undergoing a tumultuous period in its his­tory, Shahin said people should not be shocked by the revolu­tionary intents of the protest­ers. 
“It seems chaotic and unsta­ble, but these events should not come as a surprise,” he said. “The burst of democracy is a tough process. This is some­thing most nations have to go through.” 
While the country is experi­encing a trying series of events, Shahin said he is confident the issues at stake will be resolved in a manner that bodes well for the country’s future. 
“The Egyptian people will be able to restore stability and chart a new course of change and a new democratic future,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Update 
continued from page 1 
arranged by the U.S. State Department due to ongoing protests in Egypt. 
Notre Dame is working with State Department officials to transport the students from Istanbul to their hometowns, Notre Dame or London, the press release stated. Each student will decide whether to enroll in courses at Notre Dame’s campus in South Bend or at the University’s London Program for the remainder of the semester, based on individual prefer­ence and available courses and housing. 
“It has been an incredible four—day period,” J. Nicholas Entrikin, Notre Dame’s vice president for international­ization, said in the press release. “Staff members of the Office of International Studies (OIS) have worked around the clock to move our students from Cairo to a safe location outside of Egypt. Communications were severe­ly disrupted, but students, parents and OIS staff mem­bers were able to create an effective communications net­work that was invaluable in facilitating the evacuation.” 
The University announced its decision to evacuate the students on Sunday. 
ile the students were with­
out Internet and mobile phone connections in Cairo, University spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame com­municated with an AUC liai­son through a landline and used “every connection we have to try to expedite the process” of evacuating the students from Egypt. 
“We are grateful for the assistance from the American University in Cairo (AUC) for the secure environment that they provided our students amidst the protests and vio­lence in Cairo, and U.S. State Department for their help in transporting the students to Turkey,” Entrikin said. “We understand that the students are in excellent health and spirits, and we are delighted with the news of their safe arrival in Istanbul.” 
EGYPT 



Egypt’s military promises no force 

Associated Press 
CAIRO — Egypt’s military pledged not to fire on protesters in a sign that army support for President Hosni Mubarak may be unraveling on the eve of a major escalation — a push for a million people to take to the streets Tuesday to demand the authoritarian leader’s ouster. 
More than 10,000 people beat drums, played music and chant­ed slogans in Tahrir Square, which has become the epicenter of a week of protests demand­ing an end to Mubarak’s three decades in power. 
With the organizers’ calling for a “march of a million peo­ple,” the vibe in the sprawling plaza — whose name in Arabic means “Liberation” — was of an intensifying feeling that the uprising was nearing a decisive point. 
“He only needs a push!” was one of the most frequent chants, and a leaflet circulated by some protesters said it was time for the military to choose between Mubarak and the people. 
The latest gesture by Mubarak aimed at defusing the crisis fell flat. His top ally, the United States, roundly rejected his announcement of a new government Monday that dropped his highly unpopular interior minister, who heads police forces and has been widely denounced by the pro­testers. 
The crowds in the streets were equally unimpressed. 
“It’s almost the same govern­ment, as if we are not here, as if we are sheep,” sneered one protester, Khaled Bassyouny, a 30—year—old Internet entre­preneur. He said it was time to escalate the marches. “It has to burn. It has to become ugly. We have to take it to the presiden­tial palace.” 
Another concession came late Monday, when Vice President Omar Suleiman — appointed by Mubarak only two days earlier 
— went on state TV to announce the offer of a dialogue with “political forces” for con­stitutional and legislative reforms. 
Suleiman did not say what the changes would entail or which groups the government would speak with. Opposition forces have long demanded the lifting of restrictions on who is eligible to run for president to allow a real challenge to the ruling party, as well as measures to ensure elections are fair. A presidential election is sched­uled for September . 
In Washington, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs dis­missed the naming of the new government, saying the situa­tion in Egypt calls for action, not appointments. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 1, 2011 

Weather 
continued from page 1 
begins so plows can remove snow as quickly as possible. The city will likely declare a snow clearance condition 


Legacy 
continued from page 1 
nity] was if they were marketed to students and if the students would be held to the leases they had signed,” Soler said. 
She attended a meeting Jan. 25 at the Robinson Community Learning Center with developer Robert Cimala, the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization (NNRO) and the Northeast Neighborhood Council (NENC). 
An e—mail was sent this week by Cimala to students who had signed leases with Legacy Square saying they were no longer held to their leases, Soler said. 
Soler said she became aware of the growing problems with the development through NENC meetings. Nick Ruof, student government chief of staff, is a member of the NENC, and he attends meetings of the council. 
“St udent government Tuesday, according to a press release. Parking is prohibited on designated snow routes during snow clearance condi­tions on snow routes marked with signs. 
“Hopefully not, but if it materializes as bad as pre­dicted, Wednesday may be the full declaration of snow emergency where we not only don ’t want people to park on snow routes — we don ’t want them to drive either,” said Mikki Dobski, director of communications and special projects for the City of South Bend. 

At the meeting the developer two student houses near you,” outlined his future plans for the Stenz told The Observer in project, which do not involve December. “[Where there are student tenants, but rather more than one or two student owner—occupants. houses] there’s no one there to 
The project initially began in address it or clean it in the 2007, when plans were drawn summer. There’s no regular 
and  work  lawn mainte­ 
began  on  nance.”  
building. The  The Legacy  
zoning for the land was changed from Single Family  “The concern was if they were marketed to students and if the  Square devel­o p m e n t became con-t r o v e r s i a l  
(SF2) zoning  students would be held to  when  the  
to Planned U n i t Development  the leases they had signed.”  d e v e l o p e r applied for final site plan  
(PUD) zoning  approval and  
to allow for more freedom in construc- Catherine Soler student body president  was sent to a Dec. 21 public hearing of the  

tion and design. 
The project was put on hold due to funding problems, Cimala told The Observer in December. Work continued at the start of this academic year, and foundations 
were poured while the 

has been advocating for students in the communi­ “Student government has been advocating for students in the  d e v e l o p e r s waited for final site approval.  
ty,” Soler said. Soler said  community,”  Bill Stenz, president of  
student gov-ernment used  Catherine Soler  the said  NENC, in  
U n i v e r s i t y  student body president  D e c e m b e r  
contacts  to  that the NENC  
find out more  and  NNRO  

information and talked to stu-were told originally by Cimala dents about the problems. She that Legacy Square would be was invited to the meeting, marketed to young profession-which was held by the develop-als and Notre Dame alumni — er to answer community ques-not students. tions and give a presentation. “No one minds having one or 

DeBartolo 
continued from page 1 
ment in between. 
All four walls are painted with a dry—erase paint that allows students and faculty to write anywhere around the room. Also, all of the tables and chairs have wheels, allowing for a variety of seat­ing arrangements to make use of the display screens and writing space around the room, Burchett said. 
The room can be used in many different ways, includ­ing as a giant white board, all depending on the needs of a particular class. 
“The point isn’t that we want people to use gobs of technology. We just want a room that allows faculty 
options, even traditional teaching methods,” Burchett said. 
During the fall semester, the classes in B011 gave feedback on the room’s features and corresponding changes were made over Christmas break. 
According to Burchett, the faculty teaching in B011 this semester completed an appli­cation process. Each of them submitted a proposal for how they would make use of the room’s adaptability in their respective class. 
The room is currently being used for an Irish Studies course, multiple foreign lan­guage courses, a first year composition course, a multi­media writing and rhetoric course, and a mechanical engineering course, among others, Burchett said. There are at least two or three classes in the room every day. 
There is also an opportunity for faculty to request the room once or twice for a spe­cific class activity though there class is held in a differ­ent room. 
Sean O’Brien, assistant pro­fessional specialist in Irish Studies, teaches an Irish Studies course in B011. 
“We are using the tools in Area Plan 
Commission 
(APC). Around the same time as the meeting, it was discovered Cimala was creating leases for students for housing during the 2011—12 school year. 
The final site plan was denied secondary approval by the APC, which stated the current plans did not meet the original PUD zoning for the site. 
At the Dec. 21 meeting, the community voiced opinions about the project, and most viewed the project as detrimen­tal to the neighborhood. 
“This plan is not creative or innovative,” Dick Nesbaum, NNRO attorney, said at the December meeting. “It is more of the same. This is a negative impact on the neighborhood.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
B011 to follow Ireland’s cur­rent economic and political crisis. With its open format and multiple configurations of computers and displays, B011 is an ideal space to follow events in Ireland as they unfold this spring,” O’Brien said. 
The multimedia writing and rhetoric course taught by assistant professional special­ist Erin Dietel—McLaughlin is making use of the multiple display space and display options the room affords. 
“The classroom feels much more authentic to my more decentralized teaching style and to the learning process itself. The students just plain seem to be more engaged, more lively and more curious in this room,” Dietel — McLaughlin said. 
There will be an open house in Room B011 in the base­ment of DeBartolo Hall on Friday from 2 to 5 p.m. 

Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 



Newbookexplores American South 
Special to The Observer 
It’s an unsettling truth, but sometimes it takes a common enemy to reconcile two warring parties. This was the case after the U.S. Civil War, when virulent anti—Mormonism helped unify a divided nation, says Patrick Mason, a research associate professor at Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
His new book, “The Mormon Menace: Violence and Anti— Mormonism in the Postbellum South” (Oxford University Press), shows how anti— Mormonism was an important vehicle for reconciliation between North and South. 
“Mormons were violently per­secuted — but not because they held different beliefs and read the Book of Mormon,” says Mason.”They were persecuted because their polygamous prac­tices challenged cultural and political orthodoxies and were seen as a threat to Christian civ­ilization.” 
In 1887, at the behest of reli­gious reform­ers and the Republican ideologies,” he says, “but the cost of pluralism has been accommodation and assimila­tion on behalf of those minority groups.” 
Mormons gave up what was then a central part of their the­ology, Mason says. (The Mormon Church officially abandoned polygamy in 1890.) Catholics, Jews and other religious minori­ties also made theological accommodations as they sought to join the mainstream in the United States. 
Mason’s book is “a deeply researched, clearly written analysis of an almost unknown aspect of southern and religious history,” writes John Boles, William P. Hobby Professor of History at Rice University.”It fills an important gap in scholarship and by so doing illuminates a wide variety of interpretative issues in both fields.” 
“Patrick Mason tells an adven­turous and violent story in this account of Mormon lynchings in the nineteenth—century South,” writes Richard Bushman, Gouverneur Morris Professor 
“The United States has 
Party, the U.S. Congress dis-been remarkable in the 
incorporated way it has absorbed
the Mormon 
different religious
Church, seiz­ing its assets, minority groups with 
while south-competing ideologies.” 
erners attacked 
Patrick Mason 
Mormons by 
way of vigi-associate professor lante violence. Kroc Institute Catholics, Jews and other reli­gious minori-Emeritus of History at Columbia University. “His careful dissec­tion of these bloody events leads us deep into the south­ern mentality and the con­tentious images of Mormonism in America.” 
Patrick Mason earned his Ph.D. in 
ties also were victims of violent attacks during this time, Mason says, but significantly more vio­lent attacks were leveled against Mormons in the South. 
The violence against Mormons during this time raises impor­tant questions about the limits of religious tolerance and plural­ism in a democracy, Mason says. 
“The United States has been remarkable in the way it has absorbed different religious minority groups with competing history from Notre Dame in 2005. From 2007 to 2009, he was assistant professor of histo­ry and associate director of the Center for American Studies at the American University in Cairo. At the Kroc Institute, he is associate director for research of Contending Modernities, a global research initiative focused on the interaction among Catholic, Muslim and secular people in the modern world. 



Tuesday, February 1, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Lawmakers paying price for tough-on-crime laws 
tem and ramp up paroles. direction. Lawmakers introduced rections and who was going into Texas, home of the sprawling
Associated Press 

Similar crash prison reductions 26 bills creating new felony our adult prisons and for what red brick complex at Huntsville OKLAHOMA CITY — When are going on from coast to coast. crimes and 19 increasing penal-reasons . you figure out it’s not that has been a symbol of tough 
Harry Coates campaigned for the Michigan has shuttered 20 cor-ties in 2010, even as the exactly like you thought,” he justice, changed course several 
Oklahoma state Senate in 2002, rectional facilities and slashed Department of Corrections was said. years ago after being told it 
he had one approach to crime: spending by nearly 7 percent. forcing guards and other work-Unlike previous years, would need to accommodate 
“Lock ‘em up and throw away South Carolina expects to reduce ers to take a furlough day each Republican leaders in Oklahoma 17,000 new inmates otherwise. 
the key.” its inmate numbers by 8 percent month to cut costs caused by ris-now own the problem. The Rather than sending all law-Now, Coates is looking for that by putting drug dealers, burglars ing populations. midterm elections gave the GOP breakers directly to prison, the 
key. He and other tough-on-and hot check writers into com-Oklahoma’s prison population the governor’s office for the first Lone Star State beefed up fund-
crime lawmakers across the munity programs instead of has grown from 22,600 in 2000 time in eight years and increased ing for drug treatment and start-
country, faced with steep budget behind bars. Nationwide, the to nearly 26,000 now, and the majorities in both houses of the ed putting more drug offenders, 
shortfalls, are searching anxious-number of state inmates actually budget from $366 million to Legislature. hot check writers and petty 
ly for ways to let inmates out of decreased last year for the first $483 million last year. Unless the “I have a little heartburn about thieves on probation. It also is 
prison faster and keep more time in nearly 40 years. Legislature provides $9 million in reducing penalties,” said Rep. giving more chances to parolees 
offenders on the street. “There has been a dramatic emergency funding this year, Don Armes, a Republican from who previously were returned to Oklahoma’s preferred answer shift,” said Adam Gelb, a policy prison officials say guards will rural southwestern Oklahoma. prison for technical violations, 
for crime has collided head-on specialist with the Pew Center on have to take three furlough days But “how do I balance that with like missing required meetings 
with a budget deficit estimated at the States in Washington, D.C.. a month beginning in March, being able to pay for it?” or falling behind on fines and 
$600 million, and prison costs “The old question was simply, straining the inmate-to-guard Steele recently joined a delega-fees. 
that have increased more than how do I demonstrate that I’m ratios that prison officials say are tion of lawmakers, judges and Now, more Texas criminals are 
30 percent in the last decade. tough on crime?” Now, it’s “a already the most dangerous legislative staffers who visited on probation, fewer are in 
For years, lawmakers have much better question: How do I they’ve been in decades. Texas to see how that state has prison, and the system is actually 
pushed each other to lengthen get taxpayers a better public Accepting that the lock-’em-up reduced its prison costs, trusting under capacity for the first time 
prison sentences and increase safety return on their corrections days are finally over has been that Texans would do it without in years, said Ana Yanez-Correa, 
the number of criminals behind dollars?” chastening for some lawmakers, coddling lawbreakers. executive director of the Texas 
bars. Not now: This week, new Other states are trying alterna-especially conservatives. “I believe there ought to be Criminal Justice Coalition. 
Republican Speaker of the House tives to prison time. But in no “Truthfully, it’s popular to be consequences for people who “Things have changed drasti-
Kris Steele is expected to unveil a state is the philosophical U-turn tough on crime,” said Coates, a break the law, but there ought to cally in Texas,” Yanez-Correa 
package of proposals that would more abrupt than in Oklahoma, construction company owner be appropriate consequences.” said. “And nobody suffered here 
divert thousands of nonviolent where last year the Legislature from Seminole. “But when I saw said Steele, a minister from in terms of political backlash.” 
lawbreakers from the prison sys-was barreling in the opposite what we were spending on cor-Shawnee. In Oklahoma, Steele helped 

implement a pilot program last year to divert nonviolent female offenders with substance abuse problems into treatment instead of prison, and said he hopes to expand that program this year. Oklahoma currently is the only state in the nation in which the governor must sign every parole, and Steele said he wants to limit the governor’s role in the process to only violent crimes. He also wants to expand eligibility for community sentencing and look at reducing mandatory minimum sentences for low-risk, nonvio­lent offenses. 
The theory behind this approach is supported by research that shows merely incarcerating young, first-time criminals does little to change their behavior. 
Department of Corrections offi­cials seem optimistic that new measures will be approved because they have run out of other ways to save money. “We’ve already cut everything internally we could possibly cut,” said DOC director Justin Jones. Mess halls, shops, training rooms and storage units have been filled with bunks to accommo­date inmates. Sex offender treat­ment was ended. Visitation and activities requiring guard super­vision was cut when staff levels dropped to 70 percent of author­ized levels. 
Experts on national sentencing expect almost every state to adopt the new approach sooner or later — perhaps most this year because of the state fiscal crisis. The Pew Center is now working with policymakers in Alabama, Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Kentucky, Texas and Washington about adjusting sentencing policies. Nationally, states spend an estimated $50 billion each year in locking up criminals — four times the amount spent two decades ago and second only to Medicaid spending — according to the Pew Center. A study released by the group last year shows the amount states spent locking up inmates grew nearly 350 percent from $11 billion in 1987 to $48 billion in 2008. 
“I got pushback,” said Texas Democrat Sen. John Whitmire, who authored a several reform measures. “But you’ve got to believe in your product, and that is in fact tough on crime. The toughest, most conservative crime package is one that lowers recidivism.” 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, February 1, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Parental advice 

There’s only so much you can learn from a textbook — of which you’ll probably remember nothing — so why waste your time? The most use­ful lessons I’ve learned in life have been from my parents. In lieu of the upcoming Junior Parents Weekend, I fig­ured I would pay them homage and relay some of their best advice. 

1.“You Create 

Adriana Pratt 
Your Own Reality” — Dad 
Admittedly, my 

Associate 
Dad is one of 

Scene Editor 
those guys who thrives on self-help books and sends my family quotes of the day motivating us to do big things. Underneath all that cheesiness though, there really is some quality advice. One thing my dad has always emphasized is that if we want something, we should go for it. We determine our own happiness and at the end of the day, we answer first and foremost to ourselves. If something’s wrong, change it. If you can’t, change your attitude. 
2.“You can’t always write the end­ing you want” — Mom 
Though you do create your own reality, sometimes the situation that surrounds you isn’t exactly what you would plan for yourself. While we are in control of our own actions, we have to realize everyone makes their own decisions and accept that. When life doesn’t go your way, move on. It’s okay to be hurt, but there’s no need to prolong or indulge in the pain. 
3.“Always have a PMA — Positive Mental Attitude” — Dad 
As Mom said, you can’t always write the ending to certain chapters of your life, but as Dad said, you can control the protagonist’s attitude. Life can get difficult, but it’s impor­tant to remember that it’s usually just a phase. For every bad day, there is a whole series of good ones. A positive attitude not only makes you feel better, but it also helps you make better decisions. And with those better decisions, you might just get that ending you want. 
4.“Kill them with kindness” — Mom 

In fifth grade, I had a Hermione Granger complex and was proud when people made the comparison-and mind you, this was before Emma Watson was hot. One teacher got irritated with me and my enthusiasm for learning was shattered. 
I discussed the event with my Mom and instead of deriding me for being an annoying know-it-all, she gave me an important piece of advice I still use today. When someone is mean to you, kill them with kind­ness. 
Sometimes you make mistakes or hurt people’s feelings or get on the nerves of those around you, however unintentional it might be. Throw them a compliment and not only will you feel better about how you han­dled the situation, but you might just make their day-and simultaneously confuse the heck out of them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
It’s scary to think that this is my last ever first column of the semester. We seniors have had a number of these real­izations within the past few weeks, and only then has it really started to hit home that, in a few short 
Andy Ziccarelli 
months, our experi­

ence here on cam­pus will be over. Last Moment of home football game. Inertia Last time returning from break. And, worst of all, last first week of class (it’s all downhill after syllabus week.) 
Those who have read my columns in the past know that I am prone to sponta­neous, reflective rambling from time to time. And since I am feeling particularly sentimental, this week seemed as good as any to look back on just exactly how I got to where I am now. In many ways, my life is exactly where I thought it would be. I’m set to graduate from a great university with a degree in Civil Engineering. That was always the plan, and it most definitely what I was born to do. 
And while the end result of an engi­neering degree may have been what I was expecting, the path that I took to get here must assuredly was not. And that is one of the best things about life, I have come to realize. As morbid as it sounds, we’re all headed towards the same place in life. Eventually, no one reading this column will be alive anymore anymore. But the journey that each takes to get there is what defines your life. College is not much different. We all come in as wide-eyed freshmen; some have a plan, and some don’t. Either way, college takes us to classrooms, cities and sketchy off-campus apartments we could never have imagined when we got here and intro­duces us to people with backgrounds unfathomably different than our own. No one takes a defined path, and that is where learning truly happens. In the words of the great contemporary philoso­pher Miley Cyrus, “it’s the climb.” 

It’s the climb 
I suppose my journey started in high 
school. For me, it’s a minor miracle that I 
am even a student here, as opposed to 
about two hours south. My family raised 
me to worship a certain large, engineer­
ing-based, Indiana institution that just so 
happens to show up on Notre Dame’s 
football schedule every year. Four years later, I still have parents from back home asking me how much I have enjoyed my time at Purdue. As a high school senior, I would have bet anyone large quantities of money that I would not be a Notre Dame student four years later. But here I am. And not only that, I became a boxer. How many people get the chance to box in college? Bengal Bouts was certainly not something I intended on doing when I decided to come to Notre Dame, and how I ended up deciding to do it is still unclear to me. But it has been maybe the most influential experience I have had during my time here. It has made me tougher, more disciplined and more con­fident in myself. 
Other things have taken me in direc­tions that I didn’t anticipate, as well. My research (which I never thought I would be a part of) has shown me the merits of academia and has opened me to the idea of getting an advanced degree in engi­neering (also something I never thought I would be a part of). And I started writing as hobby, just to get my random thoughts onto paper somehow. Never once did I imagine sharing my thoughts with an audience as wide as Notre Dame’s cam­pus. All of these experiences are not reflected on the degree that I am sup­posed to receive in May, but they are all contributed so much to the journey. 
The best example of the importance of a journey I can come up with comes from what I know best, and that is the world of sports. This past spring, the Chicago Blackhawks won hockey’s ultimate prize, the Stanley Cup. As a native of Chicagoland, I was obviously thrilled. But something about the championship seemed....empty. I, like most my age, did not grow up on the Hawks. Their home games were not broadcast on TV until 2008, well past my formative years. As a result, I had very little connection with the team up until that point. I had only began to truly follow hockey three years ago, right as the team started their resurgence from the bottom of the stand­ings. Sure enough, in my second year fol­lowing the team, they won a champi­onship. I almost felt guilty, as though I hadn’t paid my dues. There was no jour­ney as a fan, no adventures with the team. There was no climb, and it seemed almost anticlimactic. 
Meanwhile, anyone who has talked to me for longer than about 30 seconds knows about unhealthy, self-destructive obsession with the Chicago Cubs. The Cubs haven’t won a World Series in 103 years, and have done absolutely nothing to earn my support over my lifetime. But for the last 21 summers, I have spent more time than I care to count in front of the TV watching the team. I have forgot­ten more random Cubs trivia then most rational human beings ever learn. And because of that, with apologies to my future wife, the day the Cubs win a championship will be one of the best days of my life (if it ever happens). It has been a long journey filled with excite­ment, tears, hope and plenty of heart­break. But the ending will be so much sweeter because of everything Cubs fans have had to endure to get to that point. 
So if you look around and your life appears to have veered way off course, don’t panic. Embrace it. See it as an opportunity. After all, it was a wise man who once said, “At the end, it isn’t who has the most toys, but who tells the best stories.” 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Put the politics aside 

You’ve heard it all before. The usual Commencement speaker viewpoint hoopla. The Commencement speaker is too boring or too controversial. This person shouldn’t be awarded an hon­orary degree. Why can’t we ever get someone cool? Yada, yada, yada. But when I heard that our Commencement speaker was Defense Secretary Gates, the only cabinet member to serve under both President Bush and Obama, I thought we would avoid this hullabaloo. I was mistaken. Mr. Linskey (“Gates the wrong choice for Commencement speaker,” Jan. 31) has made things political, once again. No matter who the commencement speaker is, there will always be someone who has a gripe with it. 
Mr. Linskey equates the conferral of an honorary degree to Defense Secretary Gates with “a tacit endorsement of the Bush and Obama administrations’ foreign policies.” What Mr. Linskey does not note is that the University has conferred honorary degrees on all U.S. presidents since Eisenhower. If Mr. Linskey’s claim were true, then the University has “tacitly endorsed” all 
U.S. foreign policies since the 1950s. Perhaps we should see the conferral of an honorary degree as a sign of respect for our gov­ernment leaders instead of a political judgment. 
Mr. Linskey gripes that Defense Secretary Gates has stolen his thunder by becoming the “centerpiece” of the Commencement. Oh contraire, my friend. The centerpiece of that Commencement day is what you make of it. Will it be when you receive your diploma or when you sing the Alma Mater one last time? You decide. 
Mr. Linskey concludes by quoting a Scripture passage out of context and deems it self-explanatory. If I wanted to do that, I would have pointed to the passage where Jesus says, “Do you think I have come to bring peace to the earth? No, I tell you but rather division!” (Lk 12:51). But that is a poor method of argu­mentation. 
Biblical hermeneutics aside, I do not have strong feelings either way about the choice of Gates as the Commencement speaker. I personally feel that the greatest asset a Commencement speaker has to offer is (surprise, surprise) his speech. If the former director of the CIA and Secretary of Defense can offer unique insight to the Class of 2011, then I have no qualms with conferring on him an honorary degree, regardless of his political views. So let’s keep quiet about whether or not Gates was a good choice or not until we hear him speak on May 22. 

Cornelius Rogers 
senior Keenan Hall Jan. 31 
OBSERVER POLL 

Who do you want to win the Super Bowl? 
-Green Bay Packers 
-Pittsburgh Steelers 
Who do you think will win the Super Bowl? 
-Green Bay Packers 
-Pittsburgh Steelers 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“All charming people have something to conceal, usually theirtotal dependence on theappreciation of others.” 
Cyril ConnollyEnglish literary critic and writer 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 1, 2011 page 9 
The arsenal of democracy? 
The propagation of Democracy has been the driving force of U.S. foreign policy since the end of World War I with Woodrow Wilson’s calls for national self-determination around the world. In the past 10 years alone we have toppled Elie G. Elian regimes and gov­ernments in Guest Afghanistan and Columnist Iraq and have replaced them with democracies. George Bush stated, “[We] are committed to a strategic goal of a free Iraq that is democratic, that can govern itself, defend itself and sustain itself.” The promotion of democracies has been significant to most modern presidents and has been part of the jus­tification for the sacrifice of American lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. Despite this apparently pro-democratic foreign policy, the Obama administration has failed to promote democratic move­ments in Egypt and has been embar­rassingly ambivalent, infusing the crises with political rhetoric. Is this a depar­ture from America’s promotion of democracy, or are these policies simply political rhetoric? 
In the past few days we have seen the collapse of two autocratic nations, Tunisia and Egypt. With such passion and drive, the people of Tunisia and Egypt braved walls of riot police and tear gas in the hopes of tasting the free­dom that we take for granted. In the face of a populist uprising, in the name of democracy, Americans might have expected their government to stand firmly behind this movement. One obvi­ous reason for such an expectation would be our nation’s experience and values. The government that we swear allegiance to is a government from the people for the people as a result of a populist rebellion in the face of oppres­sion. 
Despite such obvious reasons, our government was and is ambivalent about the uprising in Egypt. The Obama administration has stated that it sup­ports economic and political reforms and does not believe the status quo in Egypt is sustainable. However, it is not calling for the “president” of Egypt to step down, nor has it lauded the Egyptian people’s desire for democracy. Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton stat­ed, “We are not advocating any specific outcome.” Such weak and indecisive rhetoric is intentional and reflects the political realities of the situation. Hosni Mubarak, the “president” of Egypt, is a very close political ally of the U.S. The US Agency for International Development reports that during Mubarak’s reign, Egypt has been the recipient of $28 billion from the United States. During this time the internation­al community did not consider Egypt to be a valid democracy. 
The close political ties between the United States and Mubarak may explain some of the administration’s ambiva­lence, but Obama’s administration fears something worse than the loss of an ally. They fear replacing that ally with an enemy. If a democracy takes hold in Egypt it may empower radical elements of the population that were suppressed during Mubarak’s regime, elements such as the Muslim Brotherhood. The Muslim Brotherhood is an Islamic politi­cal movement that has been actively suppressed under Mubarak. The Brotherhood is not considered an ally by the U.S. and has been linked to violent attacks primarily in Egypt. While not considered a terrorist group there are many who fear the result of the group attaining political power in Egypt. Yet how does the administration’s ambiva­lence coincide with the long affirmed democracy promoting foreign policy? 
The result of the uprising in Egypt has outlined the political rhetoric and half­hearted values that have plagued this policy. We find it necessary to impose democracy with force, but find it con­cerning when democracy arises from the people. We find it appropriate to sacrifice the lives of our troops in the name of democracy and freedom, but also find it appropriate to remain ambivalent while men, women, and children rise against oppression. While the fears of extremism are justified, do such fears justify oppression? Our founders feared the powers of “factions” hijacking the government and abusing its power. As a result, they did not advo­cate autocracy, they advocated a power sharing system within government to check power. If we are to be “the great arsenal of democracy” as FDR called us, we mustn’t shy away from those who cry out for freedom. We mustn’t embrace those who stomp on the values dear to our democracy. We cannot con­tinue to claim that we are the “arsenal” of democracy if we do not inherently support the ideal. What we must do is stand for the values that embody our nation. We must be brave enough to support democracy even if the result is not in our favor. We should do this not because it is political good for us to do it, but because it is simply right. The foreign policy of this administration and many before it, did not fight to promote democracy, they fought to promote a conditional democracy. We did not fight for the idea of democracy and the value of freedom; we fought for political ambi­tions. This has become apparent today in regards to Egypt. To many Egyptians we have been flying the banner of democracy and freedom with vigor and determination in Iraq and Afghanistan. When they try to do they same, we do not hoist the banner higher, we ask them to stop. Therefore, we must make a choice. Either, we must hold the val­ues of freedom and democracy high unconditionally to all nations, or we must stop justifying war and the deaths of our soldiers in its name. 
Elie Elian is a sophomore political science and Arabic double major and has lived 11 years in Beirut, Lebanon. You can contact him at eelian@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Effects of Arab world riots on Israel 
Demonstrations all across Egypt have erupted against the government. In Lebanon, protestors have flooded the streets calling for a new govern­ment and Tunisia remains in a political turmoil. Arabs across the Middle East are taking things with their own hands asking for freedom of choice. And free-
Nuseir Yassin 
dom they shall get, but what will be the cost of freedom to 
Harvard 
the Arab-Israeli conflict? 
Political Review 

It is no mystery that the stagnant waters of the Arab world have become violent. Countless antigovern­ment protestors are rising and calling for a demo­cratic system that would offer them better living conditions. With more than 25% of the Egyptian population under the poverty line, drastic reforms are much needed. 
However, economic incentives are not the only motives behind such protests. The political agenda of Arab presidents has been met with nationwide disapproval. To be more precise, many Arabs, Egyptians especially, want to cut ties with Israel and help out their Palestinian brethren by opening up the borders and voiding the Israeli peace treaty. Husni Mubarak has ignored such requests for the sake of political and economic stability with Israel. He realized that adhering to the nation’s request by confronting Israel could potentially backfire and overthrow his government. He submitted to foreign-made pressure and to his own personal interests. 
Now that riots are ubiquitous in Cairo, Mubarak’s 
29.35 year-long trek is nearing its end (see my prior blog post). In addition to building a better economy, Egyptians will be constructing a different foreign policy that could affect the ongoing peace process between Israel and Palestine. As to how this new policy is going to affect the situation, I don’t know. One thing is for sure though: Israel will no longer depend on full cooperation from the Egyptian end. Now that Israel is dealing with mil­lions of Arabs instead of handful leaders, it must step back and weigh its actions accordingly. 
Overthrowing any Arab government in the Middle East is dangerous for the status quo. Now, I realize that democracy in Egypt and any other Middle Eastern country is necessary. However, people should be extremely careful with their new foreign policy choices, as this could lead to more Middle Eastern conflicts. War is never the answer for the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. We’ve seen many of them take place in the Middle East, and unfortu­nately, Palestinians suffer more with every war. As riots continue, we must practice self-restraint and wisely choose our next steps when it comes to for­eign policies. 
Despite all of the risks mentioned above, I support an Arab world free of greedy dictators. I used to be ashamed of my Arab roots because we were many led by few. We were intelligent, yet we specialized in demeaning manual labor. We were consumers, but tomorrow we’ll be innovators. 
This year, I am proud to be an Arab. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 30 edition of the Harvard Political Review, serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Welcome to ‘real life’ 
Friday’s article, (“#isthisreallife”, Jan. 28), was an incredible embarrassment to me as a Notre Dame student. I am amazed that such a simple thing as shoveling the tiny amount of sidewalk associated with one’s house could be such a big deal. Furthermore, the self-cen­teredness shown in the article is astounding. 
The city ordinance that requires snow removal within 24 hours is not because the residents of South Bend do not know how often to shovel their sidewalks, nor is it so that people can take “leisurely strolls” around town. It is a safety issue which is meant to protect both residents and the men and women who deliver mail to the people of the South Bend community. Snow that is not cleared from sidewalks will melt during the day and refreeze at night, quickly forming a layer of ice if left for even a couple of days. Here under the South Bend permacloud, lake-effect weather makes snow even more prone to turn into ice. 
It is time that people wake up from the illu­sion that the city of South Bend is here to serve the students of Notre Dame. When you live off-campus, you are a part of the South Bend community. Although enforcing this ordinance in South Bend may be recent, most cities in America that regularly get snow have an ordinance like this (including West Lafayette, where Boilermakers who live off-campus have only six hours to clear their sidewalks). Maybe the next time you want to go to Club Fever, you should spend the ten minutes it takes to shovel your sidewalk and think about what it means to be a contribut­ing member of society instead. 
Robert Ring 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Jan. 30 
The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Tuesday, February 1, 2011 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Tuesday, February 1, 2011 page 11 


… That’s where the experience 
By ADRIANA PRATT 

kicks in. I think, ‘What do I really 
Associate Scene Editor 

need in this situation? I can proba-
For the folk of heart, dreams bly get through this,’” Crawford came true this weekend when the said. North Carolinian band the Avett That was not the only surprise Brothers graced South Bend with a Crawford received. During the performance. The Avett Brothers sound check, he was also told that landed at the Morris Performing he would be performing a solo that Arts Center on the last leg of their night January tour this Saturday and “There’s never time to prepare. I were met with enthusiasm, appre-never know when I’m going to be ciation and an abundance of plaid. called upon but that’s an example 
Even from the worst seats in the of me kind of playing my role on house, the performance was exqui-the team,” he said. “For me, doing site. The acoustics and energy it that way is great because I don’t travelled across and through the do it every night and therefore hearts of the thousands amassed. whenever I do it, there’s the heart Feet were stomping, voices were palpitations and the adrenaline warbling and bodies were swaying kicks in. I think it’s great because as the Avett Brothers transitioned it keeps it very real.” from tune to tune. In spite of the nerves, Crawford 
Opening act David Mayfield kept his cool on stage and Parade started off the night with a impressed the audience with a lively performance that prepared light and easy performance of the theatre for what was to come “Letter to a Pretty Girl.” His turn as the Avett Brothers graced the as a singer made obvious one of stage around 9 p.m. the characteristics that sets the 
Brothers Scott (banjo) and Seth Avett Brothers apart. They are a (guitar) took turns alternating on multitalented group who don’t vocals while upright bassist Bob limit themselves to a conventional Crawford and cellist Joe Kwon musical approach. strummed along. Performing in With a conglomeration of songs South Bend was a great experi-including jigs that sound like Ben ence, Crawford told the Observer Folds (“Kickdrum Heart”), ballads in an interview Monday. reminiscent of Johnny Cash and 
“It was a wonderful night. tunes that defy any sort of catego-Everybody was very warm and ry, the Avett Brothers are a unique welcoming. A pleasant surprise,” presence. Their infectious banjo, Crawford said. piano, guitar, cello, drums and 
The Avett Brothers wasted no bass concoctions draw you in and time making a commitment to keep you guessing. their audience, opening their con-Not only are the songs impres­cert with a performance of the sive, but the dancing itself makes simple country ballad “January the concert worth the ticket price. Wedding.” Screams of delight met Legs have not moved in such jerky them as they recalled their bad spirited motions like those of Scott decisions with a lighthearted ren-and Seth Avett since the days of dition of “Shame.” Two songs later Forrest Gump. The brothers they reinforced their decision to be jumped and kicked around — and something and then to go be it somehow kept enough breath to with “Head Full of Doubt.” sing— while Crawford and Kwon 
The college kids in the audience strummed along to their hearts’ cheered the band on with extra content. enthusiasm as Seth and Scott listed The night closed with a perform-the booze blunders they incurred ance of their biggest hit, “I and with “When I Drink.” Saying things Love and You.” Then sadly the they don’t mean to say, feeling band said their goodbyes. things when they shouldn’t really Though the Avett Brothers left care and doing things they didn’t South Bend, fans can still expect want to do topped the list of mis-more to come. The band doesn’t takes. Songs like these further seem too concerned about the solidified the Avett Brothers’ rele-direction it’s headed but has faith vance as a band for our genera-it will go where it needs to go — tion. including to its next album, 
The evening was full of surpris-expected to be released in the next es, even for the bandmates them-year. selves. When Crawford walked out “That stuff will just come when it on stage Saturday night, the moni-comes. We haven’t been able to tor came out to tell him that for see this road unfold before it’s some reason his whole mix had unfolded for the past decade and been erased. Crawford took the we don’t expect to be able to see it news in stride and the show went now,” Crawford said. on. 
“We’ve played all kinds of places Contact Adriana Pratt at and been in all kinds of situations apratt@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 1, 2011 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 


Djokovic establishes himself as one of the world’s elite 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — For a few years now, Novak Djokovic has been known as a top-10 player with a difficult name to pronounce and a repu­tation as a bit of a jokester. 
Funny quips on the court, a favorite in the locker room, and, oh yes, those hilarious YouTube imitations of other players’ serving mannerisms. 
On Sunday, the comedian came up with another impres­sive punch line, winning the second major championship of his career. He trounced Andy Murray 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 to take his second Australian Open title, extending Britain’s near 75­year drought in men’s singles Grand Slams. 
Djokovic’s first major came here in 2008. And after throw­ing his racket, shirt and shoes into an adoring crowd Sunday night at Rod Laver Arena, he let it be known he’s a different guy than when he won three years ago. 
“I feel like a more experi­enced player,” Djokovic said with the trophy sitting next to him. “Physically, I’m stronger, I’m faster. Mentally, I’m more motivated on the court. I know how to react in certain moments, and I know how to play on a big stage.” 
Murray, trying to become the first British man to win a Grand Slam singles title since Fred Perry in 1936, saw all those facets of Djokovic’s game in the final. 
Just two months after leading Serbia to its first Davis Cup, Djokovic completely dominated Murray to hand the Scottish-born player his third straight major final loss in straight sets. He’s 0 for 9 in major finals. 
“When I got ahead in some games, even in just points, he was sticking up lobs that were landing on the baseline, pass­ing shots that were on the line,” Murray said. “I broke his serve twice in the third set and still lost 6-3.” 
Murray said he might take a break from the game for a while. 
“Right now I am disappoint­ed,” he said. “I’ve been away since the week after the tour finals. It’s a long time. I’m look­ing forward to getting back to seeing friends, family, my dog, doing all the normal stuff I like doing. 
“I want to spend time with my girlfriend, chill out and get away from the court.” 
The match ended in 2 hours, 39 minutes, and the statistics underlined Djokovic’s domina­tion: he won 11 of his 14 serv­ice games, Murray only six of 
13. Murray’s second serve was pounded by Djokovic — Murray won just 16 of 51 points, 31 percent, on his second serve. 
Murray and Djokovic, each 23 and born a week apart, are good friends and often practice together. At the coin flip before the match, Djokovic smiled broadly for photos while Murray looked fidgety and nervous. 
“I understand how he feels, it’s his third final and he didn’t get the title,” Djokovic said. “As I said on the court, I really have big respect for him and his game, because I think he has everything it takes to become a Grand Slam champi­on.” 
Trailing 5-4 in the opening set, Murray double-faulted to start the 10th game. He chal­lenged the final point of the set when he thought his forehand stayed in on the backline, but Djokovic walked away with the set in 59 minutes. 
“Maybe there was a turning point in the whole match, that 5-4 game,” Djokovic said. “I was a bit fortunate. I kind of anticipated well and read his intentions and played some great shots and great moments. It is a big advantage mentally when you are a set up and you are getting to the second set and really going for the shots.” 
Djokovic leads the head-to­head series 5-3, ending a three-match winning streak for Murray. 
Despite having a final that didn’t feature defending cham­pion Roger Federer or Rafael Nadal, who was trying to win his fourth straight Grand Slam but got beaten in the quarterfi­nals, Djokovic said it was too early to include his name or Murray’s among them. 


WNBA 




Taurasi denies wrongdoing after drug test 
Taurasi is regarded by many my career. I’ll take this and “This will be resolved well in due to narcolepsy, shift-work 
Associated Press 

as one of the best women’s move forward. advance of 2012,” Jacobs said. sleep disorder or sleep apnea, 
CHINO, Calif. — Diana players in the world. She was “I went from being really “My understanding is that we according to drug manufactur-Taurasi insists she did nothing the first prominent WNBA angry to wondering, ‘Why me?’ have the right of appeal to the ers. wrong. player to test positive for a I won’t let it bring me down,” sport of arbitration body in Jacobs said he’s handled 
The former Connecticut banned substance. she said. Turkey. That could take a cou-about 75 athlete drug cases, women’s basketball star says Taurasi said she intends to Taurasi’s contract was termi-ple of months. All the appeals including those of Floyd Landis she hadn’t even heard of the return to the WNBA when the nated by the Turkish club should be done by the end of and Marion Jones. He’s ques­banned stimulant modafinil season begins in June. The Fenerbahce this month after this year.” tioning the lab’s handling of until she found out she had Phoenix guard has led the both her A and B samples test-Taurasi said she was at her Taurasi’s sample and pointed tested positive for it. And no league in scoring the last four ed positive. The Turkish feder-home in Turkey, on her couch, out that it had been suspended matter what those results seasons and signed a multiyear ation still hasn’t announced a when the Fenerbahce general by WADA. showed, Taurasi is adamant extension with the Mercury punishment — the organization manager handed her the paper WADA spokesman Catherine that she never used perform-last August. was awaiting a response from stating that she had tested pos-Coley wrote in an e-mail to the ance-enhancing drugs. The 28-year-old also plans to Taurasi. Her lawyer, Howard itive for modafinil. AP that the organization won’t 
“I’ve never needed anything play for the U.S. team and Jacobs, said it was delivered Taurasi said the news comment until the case is to help me. Only thing that I’m coach Geno Auriemma in the Monday. Despite reports of shocked her. resolved “in order to protect guilty of is taking too many 2012 Olympics. She’s already Taurasi’s positive test surfacing “I had never heard of it and the integrity of the proceed-jump shots,” she told The helped the Americans win the last month, Jacobs only couldn’t pronounce it,” she ings.” Associated Press by telephone last two gold medals. Taurasi received the official report said. “I had to Google it to find For Taurasi’s part, her Sunday night from her parents’ has talked to Auriemma, who from the federation on out the side effects. I never lawyers noted she passed a home in Chino, Calif. coached her in college, at Wednesday. have come in contact with it.” polygraph test and that the 
In her first interview since length since she tested positive. Taurasi faces a ban of up to The drug has been involved Turkish lab was suspended by testing positive in December He said he’ll stand by her. two years and said she will in several major doping cases, WADA for three months in for modafinil, Taurasi and her “My goal has been to play appeal any suspension. The including that of American 2009. The player’s legal team lawyer blamed the Turkish lab basketball,” she said. “Things International Olympic sprinter Kelli White, and is on also contends that the lab has where the sample was ana-have come up in my life, but Committee bars any athlete the World Anti-Doping failed to properly identify lyzed. that’s life for you. ... This one given a doping penalty of six Agency’s list of banned sub-modafinil and that there are 
“There’s no way I’ve ever was an unexpected one. I’ve months or more from compet-stances. Modafinil is used to questions about the chain of taken anything,” she said. been doing the right thing for ing in the next games. counter excessive sleepiness custody for Taurasi’s test. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ———————————————­If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame’s website: http://csap.nd.edu 

——————————————— Congrats Conor Kelly and Laura Coletti on learning how to lay out this page! 
——————————————— A good man is hard to find, 
Chuck Norris does not take kindly to good men 
They wanted to put Chuck Norris's face on Mount Rushmore, but the granite wasn't hard enough for his beard 
——————————————— They wanted to put Chuck Norris's face on Mount Rushmore, 
but the granite wasn't hard enough for his beard 
Chuck Norris doesn't brush his teeth, 
he just dares them to get dirty 
——————————————— Chuck Norris can submit duplicate facts on Chucknorrisfacts.com 
Once you go Norris, you are physi­cally unable to go back 
The day Chuck Norris will die, he will roundhouse kick the bucket 
——————————————— 

Tuesday, February 1, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NFL 


NFL prepares for heightened security at Super Bowl 
into the building. It will be a


Associated Press 
good, tight area, a well-man-

DALLAS — At this year’s aged area.” Super Bowl, even people For the second straight stuck outside the stadium year, Homeland Security will get a pat-down from a Secretary Janet Napolitano 
security guard. visited the host city to tour The 5,000 fans paying $200 the Super Bowl stadium and to watch the game on big review the NFL’s security screens outside massive plans. The federal govern-Cowboys Stadium will be ment designates the Super subjected to the same securi-Bowl as a Level One security ty searches as the 100,000-event, which makes more plus who will watch the money and resources avail-game inside on Sunday. able to secure the area. The six-figure attendance Temporary flight restrictions 
n u m b e r e n t s t h e  p r e s -m o s t  will be put in p l a c e a c r o s s  
u n i q u e c h a l -l e n g e t h e N F L f a c e s a t t h i s , the 10th Super Bowl since the  “We want to err on the side of caution and we want citizens,  a wide swath o f a i r s p a c e s u r r o u n d i n g the stadium. T h e N F L ,  
Sept. 11, 2001, t e r r o r i s t attacks. F o r t h e f i r s t  regardless of how silly it may be, to say something.”  m e a n w h i l e , spends about $ 6 m i l l i o n a y e a r o n t h e  
t i m e ,  t h e  N F L  S u p e r  B o w l  
w i l l s e t u p a party plaza out­s ide th e sta d i- Milt Alerich NFL VP of Security  s e c u r i t y effort on top of what local  
u m  f o r  p e o p l e  a n d  f e d e r a l  
w h o  c a n ’t  g e t  g o v e r n m e n t  

tickets for the game but still spends. The league has hired want to be close to the more than 1,200 employees action. from private security compa­
“They’ll be contained,” said nies to augment support Milt Ahlerich, the NFL’s vice from military and law president of security. “We enforcement. More than 60 wouldn’t call their security government agencies con ­situation special, other than tribute to the Super Bowl that those folks can’t come effort. 
The league and the govern­ment also used the opportu­nity of Monday ’s security news conference to reintro­duce one of the core post-Sept. 11 messages: “If you see something, say some ­thing.” Signs saying that, and urging people to call 911 if they see suspicious activities, have been posted around the stadium and the Dallas area. 
“Time and time again, we see how that kind of vigi ­lance pays off,” Napolitano said, recalling last year ’s failed bomb threat in Times Square. 
Last Friday, a parking lot at Cowboys Stadium was evacuated when a suspicious package was found, but it turned out to be harmless. 
“We want to err on the side of caution and we want citi­zens, regardless of how silly it may be, to say something,” said Theron Bowman, police chief in the Dallas suburb of Arlington, home of Cowboys Stadium. “If it doesn’t feel right, doesn’t look right, we want them to report it.” 
The NFL released its list of banned items inside the sta­dium, including camera and binocular cases, coolers, backpacks and noisemakers. With the crowd expected to break the Super Bowl atten­dance record of 103,985 — set in 1980 at the Rose Bowl — Ahlerich urged fans to be and they will be.” patient while they wait in Security planning has what are expected to be long become more complex since security lines. the terrorist attacks. 

“The thing that’s surprised “We ’re a lot better at it us over the years is how now,” Ahlerich said. “The much cooperation we get expectations and the tem ­from the fans, ” he said. plate we follow, it ’s well “They’ll put up with standing defined. We know it. in line, a little bit of incon-Sometimes, it’s hard to do it venience, to be safe. As long but we know what we have as they’re treated equally, to do.” 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 2011 
NFL 


AP names Polamalu league’s top defender 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Now that the voters have chosen Troy Polamalu over Clay Matthews for The Associated Press 2010 NFL Defensive Player of the Year award, the two stars can prove their worth against each other on the field. 
In the Super Bowl. 
Pittsburgh safety Polamalu received 17 votes Monday from a nationwide panel of 50 media members who cover the league, edging 
G r e e n  B a y  l i n e b a c k e r  
Matthews by a hair  — two  
votes.  

Despite missing two games, in which Pittsburgh went 1-1, Polamalu became the sixth Steeler to win the award. He had seven inter­ceptions this season along with 63 tackles, but made his mark with big plays. In a late -season victory at Baltimore, Polamalu is the most versa­tile defensive back he’s ever worked with. And LeBeau has been involved with the NFL for about a half-century and is in the Hall of Fame. 
“I know Troy is going to do the right things, ” LeBeau said. 
Matthews did plenty of things correctly in only his second pro season, enough to make the All -Pro team thanks to 60 tackles, 13½ sacks (fourth in league), an interception return for a touchdown and, like Polamalu, a penchant for delivering decisive plays. 
“Game -changing plays, ” Steelers linebacker LaMarr Woodley said with emphasis. “I mean, you look at all the plays Troy’s made — game-changing plays. ... So many game-changing plays to go out there and help win foot­ball games. Things that he (does), not only in the secondary 
— coming up, 

“With all due respect, I 
his leaping tackling backs tackle honestly think Troy in the backfield. 
forced a Polamalu is probably Troy does it all.” 
fumble that Matthews said 
the greatest player
set up the it would have winning I’ve ever played with been a “unique 
touchdown. or ever seen play in honor” to win in That victo-his second year. 
person.” 
ry catapult-His goal, he ed the said, is to Steelers to Santonio Holmes become “world t h e A F C champions.” 
Jets wide receiver 
North title. Now, they are in the Super Bowl for the third time in six seasons, where they face Matthews and the Packers. 
“I don ’t imagine their game plan changing over one player,” Polamalu said. “We don ’t single out any ­body. Anything we achieve here is done as a team, as a whole.” 
Added Steelers linebacker James Harrison, who fin ­ished third in the balloting with eight votes and won the award two years ago: “Troy brings this defense from a ‘C’ defense to an ‘A’ defense. He’s someone that you have to account for in the second­ary.” 
So much so that one oppo­nent called the eighth-year pro the NFL’s top player, regardless of position. 
“With all due respect, I honestly think Troy Polamalu is probably the greatest player I’ve ever played with or even seen play in person,” gushed Jets receiver Santonio Holmes, who was the MVP of Pittsburgh ’s 2009 Super Bowl win over Arizona. “Everybody has their one person they think is the greatest player. In my eyes, I think he’s the greatest play­er I’ve ever played with.” 
Polamalu has had better statistical years than 2010, including the 2008 champi­onship season and in 2005, when he had a career-high 91 tackles and three sacks as the Steelers won the title. He hasn ’t had any season where he made more big plays than in 2010. 
That fit perfectly with defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau ’s claim that Added 
Matthews: “Despite defensive player of the year, I get the chance to play Sunday for the world championship.” 
Considered the lesser of three linebackers drafted in the first round in 2009 from Southern California, Matthews has had the biggest impact of that trio. Yes, Brian Cushing was the league’s top defensive rookie in ‘09, but he tailed off in 2010 while Matthews was surging. 
Matthews’ sensational sea­son came while facing con­sistent double-teaming. 
“You really just attack it,” said Matthews, whose father and grandfather played in the league and whose uncle, Bruce, is a Hall of Fame offensive lineman. “I think last year, obviously, was about winning the one-on­
one battles. Towards the playoffs, that’s when I saw the increase and it’s kind of continued. ... So you deal with it, you try and beat one, then another, and get to the quarterback.” 
Polamalu and Matthews take their competition to Dallas Cowboys Stadium on Sunday. They already are considered marketing adver­saries, with Polamalu’s jer­sey the top seller in the league, and both vying for hirsute superiority. 
“Well, I can guarantee you my hair’s more expensive,” Polamalu said. 
Also receiving votes for AP Defensive Player of the Year were Chicago end Julius Peppers with six and line­backer Brian Urlacher with two; and Baltimore safety Ed Reed and nose tackle Haloti Ngata, one each. 
NFL 



Pouncey not yet ruled out 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas — Maurkice Pouncey still has a shot at playing in the Super Bowl. 
Steelers coach Mike Tomlin would not rule out his Pro Bowl rookie center Monday, despite Pouncey having a high left ankle sprain. Pouncey needed crutches to walk down the steps from the team’s char­ter flight in Dallas, and wore a bulky walking boot on his left foot. 
“We’ve been very aggressive in terms of treating it,” Tomlin said. “We’ve even been putting it in hard casts and so forth. Just trying to do everything in our power to give him the best opportunity to participate. I don’t know what his chances are at this point.” 
Pouncey injured his ankle in Pittsburgh’s 24-19 victory over the New York Jets in the AFC championship last Sunday. He did not practice at all last week, and Tomlin said Pouncey is “not on a running clock” until Wednesday — the team’s first practice before the Super Bowl. 
“We will remain hopeful,” Tomlin said. 
According to media reports, Pouncey also has a broken bone in the ankle — a report Tomlin would neither confirm nor deny. 
“I’m sure it could be charac­terized as that,” Tomlin said vaguely. “I’m sure I’ve got something floating around in my ankle. The issue that’s keeping him from participating is the high ankle sprain.” 
Backup Doug Legursky, who lost out to Pouncey for the job in training camp, would fill in if necessary. Legursky is a for­mer undrafted free agent from Marshall who was on the Steelers’ practice squad during their last Super Bowl win two years ago. 

“I don’t think it’s going to affect us at all personally because we have a lot of guys on this team, let alone the offensive line, that can come up and step up if one of the starters come down,” offensive tackle Flozell Adams said. “So I have no shadow of a doubt that Doug will do just as good a job — if not better than Pouncey — being in there for this Super Bowl. And I mean that.” 
Legursky came in for Pouncey after the first-round pick out of Florida went down early in the game against the Jets, and quarterback Ben Roethlisberger fumbled an exchange that resulted in a safety. Still, Tomlin echoed Adams’ confidence in Legursky, who started four games at right guard earlier this season when starter Trai Essex went down with an injury. 
“We’re comfortable if we have to go in that direction,” Tomlin said. 


Tuesday, February 1, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Georgetown tops Louisville at home, 62-59 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Chris Wright scored a season-high 24 points, and No. 13 Georgetown overcame a major dose of Big East ugly Monday night to get its fifth straight win, blowing an 11­point second-half lead before pulling out a 62-59 victory over No. 15 Louisville. 
Wright, who was held scoreless in the Hoyas’ win at then-No. 8 Villanova on Saturday, went 8 for 8 from the free throw line, includ­ing making two with 4.4 sec­
onds left that forced the Cardinals to attempt a 3­pointer to tie. Peyton Siva, who had perhaps his worst collegiate game, dribbled down the court and missed from the top of the key at the horn. 
The Hoyas (17-5, 6-4) won a game that featured 32 turnovers — 16 for each team — but their winning streak has them in the top half of the conference stand­ings after a 1-4 start. 
Austin Freeman, who was averaging 24.3 points during the Hoyas’ winning streak, was held to 13 points and committed six turnovers. He had his streak of 23 consec­utive free throws end, but he did move into the top 10 on Georgetown’s career scoring list. 
Terrence Jennings scored 18 points for the Cardinals (17 -5, 6-3), who dropped into a tie for third in the Big East. Siva committed a career-high eight turnovers in 29 minutes and scored five points on 1-for-5 shoot­ing from the field. 
A falling -down layup by Wright tied the game at 55 with 2:55 to play, and, after a missed Louisville shot, Hollis Thompson hit a 3­pointer with 2:01 remaining to give the Hoyas a 58 -55 lead. The Cardinals missed three shots on their next possession but chased down the rebound each time until Siva was fouled in the lane. He made both free throws to cut the lead to one with 49 seconds to go. 
Jason Clark made two free throws with 25 seconds left to restore the three -point lead. With the clock winding down, Siva opted not to take a contested 3-pointer and instead passed to Jennings for an easy dunk to make it 60-59 with 5.9 seconds to go. 
That forced Louisville to foul immediately, and Wright made both shots for the game’s final points. 
Both schools were coming off upset wins of top 10 teams on Saturday — Georgetown over Villanova and Louisville over Connecticut — and appar­ently 48 hours wasn’t long enough for either team to recover. The teams combined to commit 12 turnovers before they could score a combined 12 points. The Hoyas shot 31 percent in the first half, the Cardinals 26 percent. 
Clark missed all six of his shots in the game, and Louisville’s Preston Knowles was 3 for 14, but no one was more off -kilter than Siva, who had seven turnovers in just 13 first-half minutes. Siva had never committed more than five turnovers in his 52 career games at Louisville, and many of them on Monday were embarrass­ing unforced errors, includ­ing a bad pass out of bounds that followed a timeout by coach Rick Pitino. 
The way the game was going, Georgetown’s 22-18 halftime lead looked insur­mountable, and indeed that seemed to be the case for a while. The Hoyas had a 10-2 run early in the second half. 
The lead was 43-32 when 3-pointers from Siva (his first points of the game), Chris Smith and Kyle Kuric ignited a 15-4 Louisville run. Suddenly, it was Georgetown’s turn to commit turnovers, and a steal by the Cardinals in the backcourt led to a layup that tied the game at 47 with about 8 minutes to play. 

Pitino made a change in the lineup, giving Kuric his first start since Jan. 5, ahead of Stephan Van Treese. Kuric finished with nine points. 
NBA 


Cavs drop 21st consecutive game in 117-90 loss at Miami 
Associated Press  side seats. Quietly, Cleveland started  owns the all-time NBA losing-streak record, a 24-game slide  
MIAMI  — Once again, LeBron  putting together good stretch  that spanned from March to  
James helped the Cleveland  after good stretch, getting with- November 1982.  
Cavaliers reach a milestone in  in 70-67 in the third quarter.  At this rate, that mark might  
the NBA standings.  Was  this  going  to  be  the  be erased in a week.  
First to 40 wins one year.  night?  “We just keep fighting. That’s  
First to 40 losses the next.  Not a chance.  all you can do,” Cavaliers coach  
Dwyane Wade scored 26 of  James had nine points in a  Byron Scott said before the  
his 34 points in the first half,  19-5  run  to  close the third  game. “You’ve got two choices,  
James finished with 24 points  quarter, Miami’s lead was 89­ either you’re going to fight or  
and eight assists and the Miami  72 entering the fourth, and it  you’re going to lay down. I  
Heat beat the Cavaliers for the  turned into a romp from there.  don’t think we have any guys  
third time since the two-time  The Heat (34-14) moved with- that will just lay down. We  
MVP changed cities, winning  in 2½ games of Boston for the  don’t on the coaching staff. So  
117-90 Monday night to hand  best  record  in  the  Eastern  we’re just going to keep fight- 
Cleveland its 21st straight loss  Conference. Zydrunas Ilgauskas  ing and keep working every  
— as many as it dropped in the  had 12 points and  a  season- day.”  
entire 2009-10 regular season.  high 14 rebounds against his  Last Feb. 4, the Cavaliers  
Cleveland (8-40) is now two  former team, Eddie House also  beat Miami 102-86, moving to  
losses shy of tying the single- scored  12  and  Chris  Bosh  an NBA-best 40-11 at the time.  
season  NBA  futility  streak  added 10 points for Miami.  The Cavs finished last season  
record shared by the 1995-96  For  Cleveland,  Antawn  61-21, two games better than  
Vancouver Grizzlies and 1997­ Jamison finished with 21 points  anyone in the league.  
98 Denver Nuggets. Overall, the  and 10 rebounds. Manny Harris  This year? They’re better  
Cavaliers have lost 31 of 32  scored  20  points  and  J.J.  than no one. The next chance AP  
games, along with 24 straight  Hickson  added  14.  The  to snap the skein is Wednesday Heat guard LeBron James is defended by Anthony Parker of the  
on the road.  Cavaliers were outrebounded  against Indiana. Cleveland is at Cavaliers. Miami won the game, 117-90, to improve to 34-14.  
“I have nothing bad to say  49-39.  Memphis on Friday, back home  
about the players that I left and  Wade hit 10 of his first 12  to face Portland on Saturday,  said. “I felt like I was making  think that’s how both teams  
the team,” James said before  shots, the third straight game  then  goes  to  Dallas  next  the right choice for me as an  look at it.”  
the game. “I wish the organiza­ for him with  a sizzling start.  Monday.  individual and for my career.”  It  wasn’t  just  James  who  
tion the best. And I wish the  James had 15 in the first half,  Lose them all, and that’ll be  Monday’s game was the third  played the role of superstar  
fans, more than anything, the  including  a  highlight-caliber  25 in  a  row  — the blight of  time Miami and Cleveland have  who dealt a team a significant  
best because we  had a lot of  dunk  over  Christian Eyenga  blights in NBA history.  met since James switched uni- blow by moving elsewhere last  
great years together.”  and Hickson that gave Miami a  James sees no reason to enjoy  forms. Unlike the first two, it  summer, of  course.  Without  
They might be hard-pressed  61-44 lead.  Cleveland’s epic struggles. And  almost seemed like a regular  Bosh, the Toronto Raptors have  
to remember those now.  And although it  was  a one- it doesn’t give him a sense of  game instead of having a circus  now lost 12 straight, its longest  
This  game  had  a  few  possession  game  midway  vindication, either.  atmosphere.  slide since the season before  
moments  of  hope  for  the  through the third quarter, the  The  way  he  sees  it,  “The first two were kind of  James, Bosh and Wade were all  
Cavaliers. They were down by  outcome never truly seemed in  Cleveland’s descent does noth­ crazy, but now both teams went  part of the same draft class.  
19 in the first half, when Wade  doubt.  ing to prove that he made the  their separate ways,” Scott  In Miami, that threesome just  
was  almost unguardable for  Cleveland’s  franchise  — right choice in joining up with  said. “Obviously they’re doing  keeps on clicking.  
stretches  — one of his dunks,  which reached great heights  Wade  and  Bosh  in  South  extremely well and  we  have  “I’m happy that at this point  
off a pass from James, was so  with James for  seven  years,  Florida.  been hit with the unbelievable  in the season, we’re playing  
spectacular that rap moguls  and has fallen to the bottom of  “It didn’t matter for me if the  injury bug and all kind of other  some  good ball, whether it’s  
Sean “Diddy” Combs and Rick  the  NBA  less  than  seven  Cavs were going to have a suc­ stuff that has happened. I think  against the Cavs or whatever,”  
Ross leaped from their court- months after he left  — already  cessful season or not,” James  it is just a game right now and I  James said.  

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 



Women’s hockey splits in Illinois 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame traveled to Hoffman Estates, Ill., Friday evening, where a hard-fought battle against the Flash ended in a 3-1 victory. 
Notre Dame started the game firing on all cylinders. Midway through the first period, senior captain Gillian Allsup scored off a pass from sophomore defenseman Mara Catlaw. The Irish capitalized on a hooking penalty and added to their lead with a power-play goal from Junior Margot DeBot. DeBot finished a behind the net feed from Catlaw to put the Irish up 2-0. Junior Brinya Bjork fin­ished off the Irish scoring with a third-period unassisted goal to put the game out of reach for the Flash. 
The Notre Dame defense played strong with an excellent game from junior newcomer Lauren Miller. Sophomore goalie Stacey Collins made 24 saves in goal and allowed just one shot past her. 
On Saturday evening, the team faced off against the Flash once again. The Hoffman Estates team got off to an early lead when Donna Cucuau scored 20 seconds into the game. Cucuau struck again late in the second period as the Irish struggled to clear their own zone. After having dug themselves an early hole, the Irish refused to give up and played very strongly in the third period. 
A tripping call sent Kris Keely to the penalty box and put the Irish on the power play. Junior Kristin Hepburn won the faceoff to Allsup, who sent the puck back to Catlaw. Several screens in front allowed for Catlaw to finish the puck into the lower left corner. Minutes later, freshman coach 
E.J. Borg called a timeout to strategize. The Irish pulled their goalie, but were unable to capitalize and gave up an empty net goal with two sec­onds remaining in the game, which the Flash won 3-1. 
Notre Dame will return to action this weekend, when the Irish host the Brew-City Blades for a weekend series at the Joyce Ice Arena. The Irish women will play on Friday at 7 
p.m. and again on Saturday at 10 a.m. 
Women’s Water Polo 
The Irish kicked off their season on Saturday with a tough loss to varsity program Wheaton College. The Irish scored early with an advantage goal by senior Ali Durkin but were outscored 6-3 by the Thunder in the first half. 
The Irish came back strong in the third quarter and were able to tie the game at 7-7 with the help of sophomore Victoria Anglin and juniors Maisie O’Malley and Erin Gibson. However, the Irish weren’t able to hold onto their momentum and Wheaton’s strong shooters were able to get the Thunder back in the game. The final score was 11-8. 
The Irish finished their day Saturday with a scrimmage against Lindenwood University. The Irish were led by sopho­more Laura McCoy, whose strength in the two-meter posi­tion kept the Irish in the game. Senior Liz Casazza led Notre Dame’s stellar defense with six steals. 
The Irish are looking forward to next weekend when they will compete in an invitation at Lindenwood University in St. Charles, Mo. 
Skiing 
Notre Dame’s ski club opened its season this weekend with strong performances from both squads. Led by Justine Murnane’s first-place overall finish, and freshman Hilary Rolfs’ runner-up performance, the squad claimed first place. 
Seniors Tom and Chris Knoedler took sixth and sev­enth, respectively, in leading the men to a second-place team finish in the sanctioned MCSA event. 
Erin McNeil finished second and Pat Lane ninth, as the women’s and men’s snow­boarders finished second and fifth overall, respectively, in their events. 
Squash 
Notre Dame competed at the Northwestern Round Robin over the weekend of Jan. 22­
23. The squad played four matches, beating the University of Illinois-Springfield. 6-3, but losing to Northwestern, 9-0, Washington University St. Louis, 7-2, and the University of Illinois, 8-1. 
The 10-man squad was led by freshman T.J. Sarda, who stepped up to No. 1 this week and competed well against the best that other schools had to offer. Freshman No. 2 Paul Mickan continued to elevate his game, with a win against UIS and a hard-fought loss against UIUC. Sophomore No. 3 Mike Todisco and senior No. 5 Kenneth Schlax showed determination in a pair of five-set marathons against UIS. Junior Matt Sushinsky, back from studying abroad in Australia, returned without missing a beat at No. 4. 
Freshman Clayton Smith, No. 6, showed promise for the future in his matches, going 1­3 on the day. Freshman Chris Sander, No. 7, helped secure the victory over UIS. Freshmen No. 8 Luke Pardue and No. 9/10 Casey O’Meilia earned vic­tories over Washington and UIUC, respectively. Senior No. 8/9 Karen Riedl enjoyed her opportunity to play squash this weekend, as she is busy every other weekend with women’s ice hockey. The club is priming for nationals at Harvard in February. 


NFL 


Rodgers, Packers arrive in Texas 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Now that the Packers have arrived in North Texas for the Super Bowl, Aaron Rodgers has put his team’s Twitter-driven mini-controversy to rest. 
“I think, obviously, this was made a bigger issue than it was,” Rodgers said shortly after his team settled in at its hotel. “There was nothing going on in Green Bay last week, so this little thing blew up bigger than we ever thought it would.” 
Rodgers hopes that’s the last word in a week filled with bickering about hurt feelings of injured teammates who tweeted to complain when it looked like they weren’t being included in this week’s team photo. It’s the kind of minor issue that can suddenly become a big deal when a team is in the spotlight preparing for the Super Bowl. 
Packers coach Mike McCarthy will try to steer the team clear of such potential distractions the rest of the week. 
“Our players were really excited to get down here today, just visiting with a number of them one-on-one,” McCarthy said. “They’re excited about the process leading up to the game. Like a lot of us, we wish the game was already here. We don’t want to take away this experi­ence. I told them to be very realistic, be practical. Enjoy it, it’s unique, an opportunity to be in front of the media every day. It will be a great experience for our players and our coaches. But at the end of the day, this is about beating the Pittsburgh Steelers.” 

First they’ll have to figure out how they want to deal with the weather. They’ve left Wisconsin but can’t seem to shake free from winter. 
With icy conditions predict­ed in the Dallas area, McCarthy said he will consid­er taking the team indoors for practice but first wants to get a look at the indoor practice facility available to him. 
“We discussed it earlier in the week,” McCarthy said. “With the weather and the indoor facility and the surface and so forth, we’ll probably make that decision sometime later tomorrow.” 
Then they’ll have to find a way to bridge their inexperi­ence gap. 
While the Steelers have no shortage of Super Bowl expe­rience, the Packers have two players who have been on los­ing teams, Charles Woodson and Ryan Pickett. Fullback John Kuhn earned a Super Bowl ring as a member of the Steelers’ practice squad. 
McCarthy doesn’t think experience will be a factor after the game kicks off. 
“The advantage Pittsburgh has over us in my opinion is today through Saturday,” McCarthy said. “So we’ll con­tinue to work and educate our football team. They are a ded­icated and focused bunch so I’m not really concerned about it.” 
McCarthy has picked other coaches’ brains for advice about preparing for a Super Bowl, but he can’t draw on any personal experience. This will be his first trip to the game — even as a spectator. 


Tuesday, February 1, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
USTA 
continued from page 20 
were named the girls 18-U dou­bles champions at the USTA Winter National Championships, where they entered the tourna­ment as the No. 8 seed. 
Sabacinski lost her first match of the season against Marisa Lambropoulos of Illinois, then gained momentum last weekend against Yale’s Kim Szokol and Arkansas’ Valentina Starkova. She was one of the strongest players for the team in both matches, recording two-set victo­ries against the Bulldogs’ and Razorbacks’ No. 6 singles play­ers. 
With doubles partner Kristen Rafael, a senior, Sabacinski has gone 1-3, defeating only the No. 3 doubles pair from Yale. Louderback said that Sabacinski will be featured heavily in both singles and doubles competition throughout the season. 
“The two freshman, Jennifer Kellner and Julie Sabacinski, are going to be in our singles and doubles line up. They’re going to have to get used to duel match­es,” Louderback said. “It’s defi­nitely a different atmosphere and as they go along I think they’ll do really well. I think they should fit in well. We had a couple of big holes to fill.” 


Junior Kristy Frilling said that all the freshmen have the poten­tial to fill the place that last year’s seniors left behind. 
“It’ll be important for the freshmen to step up,” Frilling said. “Every match is important and we have a tough schedule and we travel a lot. We have to make sure we’re really ready to compete.” 
Frilling was impressed with Sabacinski’s performance in the first week of competition and is looking to her, along with Kellner, to do big things for the team. 
“Everyone just kind of got into the groove of things [against Illinois],” she said. “They are only going to continue to improve throughout the season. “ 
Sabacinski, Kellner and the rest of the Irish will be back in action this Saturday against North Carolina in Chapel Hill, N.C. 

Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 




Recruit 
continued from page 20 
for us because of the academ­ic and athletic fit that he brings to Notre Dame.” 
The freshman picked up his first career victories in his collegiate debut Sept. 17 at the Illinois Invitational. The wins were a testament to the hard work that Andrews has put in since stepping on cam­pus for the first time less than a year ago. 
“He has not disappointed at all,” Sachire said. “He has a great attitude and work ethic. He’s going to keep improving and getting better.” 
With the combination of the high ranking coming out of high school and the contribu­tions he has made during his freshman year, the future is bright for Andrews. 
“He will play an integral role in singles and doubles moving forward,” Sachire said. “He is one of our most important players.” 
For someone as accustomed to winning as Andrews, the step up in leadership means ending the season with a championship — just like last year — is the only acceptable option. This time, however, it would come at the Big East Championships and NCAA tournament. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

NBA 


Lopez, Harris lead New Jersey to win 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — Brook Lopez scored 27 points and Devin Harris had a career-high 18 assists as the Nets gave Carmelo Anthony an indication why he might want to play for New Jersey with a 115-99 vic­tory over the Denver Nuggets on Monday night. 
The game was the first between the teams since Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov told his team to halt extended trade talks with Denver for Anthony a little less than two weeks ago, saying the drawn-out negotia­tions were hurting his team. 
The Nets (15-34) are 5-3 since the talks ended, but Anthony gave the fans who jeered and cheered him at dif­ferent times a clear indication why he is so valued, scoring 37 points — two shy of his season high — to keep his team in the game. 
Travis Outlaw scored 13 of his 20 points in a big first quar­ter for the Nets and Anthony Morrow, who was part of the three-team, 15-player deal for Anthony that included Detroit, added 18. Kris Humphries had 15 and nine rebounds for New Jersey, which shot 53.2 percent from the field, hitting 9 of 15 3­pointers. 
Chauncey Billups, who was also supposed to be sent to New Jersey in the deal, had 17 of his 19 points in the second half. Nene added 16. 
New Jersey never trailed after the opening minutes and led by as many as 18 points in the first half. 
However, Melo wouldn’t get the Nuggets go away and Harris, who was the major part in the Nets deal to the Nuggets, wouldn’t let Denver get over the hump in its comeback. 
Trailing 82-69 with 2:36 left in the third quarter, Anthony hit a jumper to ignite a 9-3 run that featured six of Billups’ 11 points in the quarter. 
The lead shrunk and it looked as if it was down to 85-81 when 
J.R. Smith hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer, but it was reviewed and waved off because the shot left his hand a split second too late. 
Denver managed to cut the lead to four points three times in the fourth quarter, the last at 96-92 on a drive and jam by Nene with 7:43 to play. 
Harris then drove for a layup to ignite an 8-1 run that ended with six free throws, one cour­tesy of a technical against Billups, who was miffed a foul wasn’t called when he was stripped for his seventh turnover. 
Denver never got close after that. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 2011 
Syracuse 
continued from page 20 
The Orange enter the con­test on a three-game winning streak but will face a tough task in extending that streak at the Purcell Pavilion. The Irish have been victori ­
ous in five consecutive but have done a nice job with our 3-point defense.” 
The improvements to the 3-point defense were evident in the 58 -43 win over Villanova on Saturday. The Wildcats made just two of their 16 attempts from beyond the arc. 
The matchup with Syracuse will likely be an important lit­mus test for 

games since “The team is adjusting the Irish the heart -defense as the 
really well. We’re 
breaking 79 -Big East and 76 loss to playing very well NCAA tourna-Connecticut at lately.” ments are home Jan. 8. around the 
Recent cir -corner. 
Muffett McGraw 
cumstances Syracuse fea­have cut the Irish head coach tures four 
Irish rotation short in recent weeks, as two players have had to leave the team for various reasons, but McGraw said that has created an opportunity for other players to grow leading up to the NCAA tournament. 
“The team is adjusting really well,” McGraw said. “We ’re playing very well lately. We’re looking inside more for our post players. [Freshman forward] Natalie Achonwa is playing really well, so we have seven play­ers in the rotation as of late.” 
The Irish defense has led the team during the five ­game winning streak, as they have not allowed more than 60 points in any of those contests. That strong defen­sive play will need to contin­ue as Notre Dame enters the final month of the regular season. 
“We’re continually trying to get better,” McGraw said. “We’ve been sloppy at times, 


Duals 
continued from page 20 
ence championships.” 
Sophomore Ellie Watson anchored the final leg of the race with a team-high time of 55 sec­onds. In addition, Watson shined in individual events, earning two first place finishes in the 500 freestyle and 1000 freestyle and third place in the 200 individual medley (IM). 
Junior Audrey Dalrymple also led the way with first place in the 200 breaststroke and 200 IM. Dalrymple nearly won the 100 breaststroke but finished second to Hope swimmer Sarah Krueger by a mere 0.34 seconds. 
Benishek described both Watson and Dalrymple as “strong leaders in the water” and believes that they both possess strong chances at earning bids to the NCAA Division III Championships in March. 
Sophomore Katie Griffin also contributed to the winning effort with first place in the 100-yard butterfly, while junior Megan Price took second in the 200 and 500 freestyle events. 
However, Saint Mary’s will swim in the MIAA Championships without two solid contributors in sophomores Liz Litke and Liz Palmer, who are both studying abroad this semes­ter. 
The Belles now have nearly three weeks to prepare for the MIAA Championships held on February 17-19, which will be held at Jenison High School, southwest of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
players aver ­aging in dou ­ble figures, led by senior 
guard Erica Morrow, who will test the Notre Dame guard rotation. 
The game will tip off at 7 
p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion as both teams aim to notch a key Big East win. 


Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Tuesday, February 1, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Military 
sandwich? 37 “Candid 1 Bookcase unit 

6 Drill instructor's rank, often: Abbr. Camera” request 39 Bottom-of-letter 
9 Animal trap abbr. 
14 Tool with a 40 Clear wrap 
bubble 42 Battle of 
15 Poet who Normandy city 
created the Ushers 
43 Emitted a contented sigh 
16 Color variations 45 Outstanding 
17 Fight card venue 
crowd scene18 Have payables 
actor? 19 Comment to the 47 Sch. in Troy, audience 
N.Y. 20 Distance 
48 Sussex suffix runner's skirt? 
50 Most robust 23 Catches some 

51 Plaything with a rays 
fulcrum 24 Beats it 
53 Defense in a 28 Chicken, so to snow fight
speak 55 Valuable truck? 

32 Season after 61 Company behind printemps the game 
33 Compete Battlezone 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

B  A  T  M  A  N  R  P  M  S  E  E  
A  R  O  U  S  E  A  E  R  O  T  A  X  
B  E  N  C  H  W  A  R  M  E  R  A  T  A  
S  A  S  H  S  C  A  L  A  L  I  L  
C  A  S  H  P  A  Y  M  E  N  T  
S  T  O  P  U  P  T  S  E  
M  I  L  L  E  R  L  I  T  E  R  A  R  E  
U  N  D  I  D  E  R  E  U  M  I  A  K  
T  E  E  N  R  I  V  E  R  S  E  D  G  E  
T  O  E  T  E  N  S  E  S  
N  A  S  H  R  A  M  B  L  E  R  
I  Z  E  C  R  E  E  P  W  O  K  E  
P  U  T  H  E  R  E  S  J  O  H  N  N  Y  
P  R  O  I  N  I  T  E  D  I  T  O  R  
Y  E  N  D  D  T  D  E  M  O  T  E  

64 Hurler's asset 65 Applied 3-in-One
to 66 Netflix rental 67 Juno or NetZero,
for short 68 Serving a 
purpose 69 Antler sporters70 Utmost in 
degree 71 Dry runs 
Down 1 Verbal assault 2 Zeus' wife 3 Partner of anon 4 “Havana” 
actress Olin 5 Render pancake-shaped 6 Dish's runaway
partner, in rhyme 7 Graduation attire 8 Abound (with) 9 Batting positions 
10 Boot camp reply11 YoungSkywalker'snickname 12 “Curse you, ___ Baron!” 13 U-turn from WNW 21 Where the Styx
flows 22 Believer's suffix 25 Take to the sky 26 Four-lap
runners, often 27 Witnessed in the 
area of 28 Slings mud at 29 Cocktail hour 
nibble 
EUGENIA LAST 
 OROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 

Puzzle by Robert A. Doll 
30Jughead's buddy 44Works of Pepys 58Yale students 31Stir up and others 59Disappear à la 46Visits a diner Frosty
32Abba of Israel 
49Neighbor of Nor. 60Fateful day for 35Not risky 52Bit of parsley Caesar 36Mentalist Geller 53Leading the 61Pro-___ (some 
pack tourneys)381140, in old 
54Get-up-and-go 

Rome 62Huggies wearer
56Genesis brother 41India's longest-57Webmaster's 63Gardner of serving P.M. creation “Mogambo” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
TAUCE  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
YIKTT  

 
 
 
 
 

PINELP  

 
 
 
 
 
 

NEW BIBLE Jumble Books Go To: http://www.tyndale.com/jumble/ 

MURTES  

 
 
 
 
 
 


” 



Answer: “ 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: DAILY VIXEN EMBARK RADIUM Yesterday’s 
Answer: To the minstrels, Robin Hood was — A“BAND” LEADER 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 





Sports 
Tuesday, February 1, 2011 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Looking ahead 
Irish host Syracuse in Big East matchup at Purcell 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have faced adversity throughout the season and lost key players 
of late, but one thing has remained constant: the team continues to win. 
No. 8 Notre Dame (18-4, 7­1 Big East) is set to begin the second half of a crucial Big East season tonight as it plays host to Syracuse (16-4, 4-3). One of the main chal­lenges for the Irish will be stopping the strong play of the Orange post game. 
“They ’re a really good team,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They have a strong inside and 3-point combination. They also rank third in the country in rebounding margin, so that will be a good challenge for us.” 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Junior Natalie Novosel looks to pass to teammate Devereaux Peters in a game against St. see SYRACUSE/page 18 John’s last week. The Irish won 69-36. Notre Dame faces Syracuse tonight at Purcell Pavilion. 

SMC SWIMMING 



Bellesearn firstwinin overayear 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles earned their first dual-meet win in more than a year Saturday — and by the slimmest of margins. Just 1.15 seconds separated the Belles from their closest competitors in the meet’s final relay to provide a thrilling conclusion to the event. 
In the three-team meet in Holland, Mich., Saint Mary’s beat Alma College 137-126 but lost to Hope College, 142-106. 
Having struggled in dual-meet relay races all season, the Belles saved their best performance for last in the 400-meter free relay, finishing with a time of 3:51.09. 
“[The relay races] were an amazing swim by both of our relay teams,” Belles coach Mark Benishek said. “It couldn’t have come at a better time to lift our spirits heading into the confer-
see DUALS/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 



Centa leads Belles in scoring as team wins road game 
By LAURA COLETTI 

Saint Mary’s regained the lead the second half, and held a dou-led the Belles in scoring, matching team which makes us harder to 
Sports Writer 

and built it to 14 with three min-ble-digit lead with under 15 min-her career-high with 18 points. defend.” utes remaining, but Alma closed utes remaining in the second half. Junior guard Maggie Ronan Ronan earned her second con-
Saint Mary’s rode a balanced out the half on a scoring tear, and They controlled the rest of the added 16 points, while senior secutive MIAA Co-Player of the scoring attack and timely defen-the Belles headed to the locker game and maintained the lead to guard Pasty Mahoney chipped in Week honors for her performance sive stops to an 82-72 win over room with a 39-36 advantage. scratch out the win. with 10. Junior forward Kelley on Saturday as well as in last Alma on Saturday in a key confer-Belles coach Jenn Henley said “I think our team did a great job Murphy recorded her seventh Wednesday’s game against Olivet. ence road game. that she wasn’t too worried about in their transition offense against double-double of the season with “I think she [Ronan] did a pretty 
After exchanging baskets for Alma’s run at the end of the half. Alma,” Henley said. “We were 15 points and 11 rebounds. good job for us,” Henley said. the first six minutes, the Belles “Basketball is a game of runs,” able to get out and attack the bas-Henley said she was pleased to “Overall, our entire team played (14-6, 7-4 MIAA) snapped a tie Henley said. “But we did talk ket pretty consistently during the see many of her players post big very well last week.” with a 5-0 scoring run to take a about making some adjustments game. We still need to continue numbers. Saint Mary’s returns home on 13-8 lead. The Scots (1-18, 0-10) to get out on their shooters and do improving on our team defense — “The balanced scoring attack is Tuesday to play No. 3 Hope. answered with an 8-2 run of their a better job of rebounding at both we gave up too many points on what every coach wants to see,” own to take the lead with 11 min-ends.” Saturday.” Henley said. “We have a lot of dif-Contact Laura Coletti at utes remaining in the first half. The Belles came out strong in Junior forward Jessica Centa ferent ways we can score as a lcoletti@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 





Sabacinski impresses Irish 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
On a team loaded with nation­ally established tennis players, freshman Julie Sabacinski is already making a name for her­self in her inaugural campaign with the Irish. Sabacinski handi­ly defeated her last two oppo­nents as Irish coach Jay Louderback’s squad begins its spring season. 
The Florida native joined the team this year straight off the four-time Florida state champion tennis team at American Heritage High School. She was the No. 9 recruit out of her home state and was one of the top-50 recruits in the 2010 graduating class. Last February, she and doubles partner Britney Sanders 
see USTA/page 17 


MEN’S TENNIS 


Freshman Andrews makes early impact 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Throughout his tennis career, all Greg Andrews has done is win. He doesn’t know how to do anything else. 
The true freshman from Richland, Mich., has easily transitioned from one of the best prospects in the nation into a team leader for the Irish and an up-and-coming threat in the Big East. 
“He’s an awesome player,” associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “When we recruited him we knew he was the total package — a great high school student and tennis player.” 
Andrews has contributed in both singles and doubles for Notre Dame in his rookie campaign. Most recently, he and junior Casey Watt picked up the lone Irish victory in a 4-1 loss to No. 16 Illinois. 
Only a year ago, Andrews was fresh off a state champi­onship as the No. 1 singles player at Gull Lake High School. He also was a mem­ber of the National Honor Society and excelled in the classroom. 
“Greg was in the top-10 of his class in the entire country and the best player coming out of the Midwest,” Sachire said. “He made a lot of sense 
see RECRUIT/page 17 



