the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND presents int’l development award 
Partners In Health receives award for efforts in improving global healthcare standards 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
A surge in global solidarity has served as a catalyst for raising health standards in the third world, cofounder of Partners In Health (PIH) Ophelia Dahl said Wednesday at a recognition cer­emony in the Hesburgh Library. PIH was recently named the recipient of the 2011 Notre Dame Award for International Human Development and Solidarity. 
“The challenge is to corral this solidarity and make it meaning­ful,” she said in a panel discus­sion at Washington Hall. “We 
see AWARD/page 4 





Walsh Rector wins on TV game show 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Walsh Hall rector Annie Selak, decked out in a cup­cake costume, managed to be selected from the audience as a contestant on the CBS game show “Let’s Make a Deal” during a January taping. Selak won a prize package valued at more than $6,000 in an episode that aired Wednesday. 
“Let’s Make A Deal” is a game show hosted by Wayne Brady, who picks people out of the audience to participate in games for a variety of prize winnings. 
“Winning is surreal,” Selak said. “I never thought I’d be on a game show. Seeing it on TV made it even more surre­al.” 
Selak’s mom urged her to attend the filming while she was away on Winter Break with her parents in Los Angeles, near where she grew up. 
Audience members are encouraged to wear elaborate costumes, so Selak dressed herself in the cupcake cos­tume she originally wore for Halloween on campus. 
Selak said her assigned seating in the audience was ironic given her profession. 
“The producers assign you your seat,” she said. “They placed me between a beer 
see GAME/page 7 



Alleged sexual battery reported 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating a sex­ual battery reported to cam­pus police Wednesday, according to an email sent to students early Thursday morning. 
A Saint Mary’s student was reportedly sexually assaulted at approximately 9:50 p.m. Wednesday evening, accord­ing to the College’s Director of Security David Gariepy. 
The victim reported to police the crime occurred along a path beside Saint Mary’s Lake between Holy Cross Hill and Holy Cross Drive, according to the email. 
Police reported the sus­pects were two white males approximately 5’10” who were wearing dark clothing. The suspects approached the victim and pulled her off the path before assaulting her. One assailant reportedly car­ried a knife. 
The suspects fled on foot toward State Road 933, according to NDSP. Saint Mary’s students received an email from College security alerting them to the reported assault at approximately 
11:40 p.m. 
“Please use extreme cau­tion when traveling to and from the University of Notre Dame as suspects have not been apprehended,” the email stated. 


4.0 GPA seniors vie for valedictorian, Larkin selected 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
As the Commencement Ceremony approaches each spring semester, the University is faced with the difficult task of selecting a valedictorian from among the top students of the graduating class. 
This year, Edward Larkin, a biological sciences major from East Lansing, Mich., was awarded the honor. However, Larkin was not the only grad­uating senior from the class of 2011 with a 4.0 GPA. 
Because a number of gradu­ating seniors boast 4.0s, the selection process for singling out a valedictorian requires looking beyond the numbers. 
Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs heads the selection committee that chooses the valedictorian. Jacobs said the committee solicits speech submissions from all potential valedictori­ans. 
“The selection committee is comprised of faculty, staff and students and invites the top students from each college to 

see LARKIN/page 7 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC creates finance committee page 3  Viewpoint page 8  Michael Scott leaves”The Office” page 10  Softball no-hitter page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, April 28, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: AS A CHILD, WHAT DID YOU WANT TO BE WHEN YOU GREW UP?
THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
John Cameron Chris Allen 
Caitlin Housley Matthew DeFranks Christian Myers Joe Wirth 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Mary Claire 
Viewpoint O’Donnell 
Meghan Photo 
Thomassen Sarah O’Connor 
OFFBEAT 
New Jersey town establishes parietals for chickens 
HOPEWELL TOWNSHIP, 
N.J. — A New Jersey town has adopted an ordinance that regulates when chickens and roosters can hook up in backyard henhouses. Roosters must show they’re disease-free and they better not crow about their con­quests. 
Hopewell Township resi­dents can have up to a half-dozen hens on half-acre lots. Roosters would be allowed only 10 days a year for fertil­ization purposes. 
Mature roosters are not allowed because they’re too noisy. Any roosters that crow too long can be banned from the property for two years. 
Mayor Jim Burd told the Times of Trenton the ordi-

Ben Eichler  Greg Allare  Katie O’Rourke  Ryan Quillard  Phil Diamond  
freshman  sophomre  junior  junior  junior  
St. Edward’s  Zahm  Pasquerilla East  Dillon  off campus  

“Darth Vader.” “A “It was a tie “Pro basketball “Trophy 
skateboarding, between a player, until I husband.” rock-star farmer and an stopped scientist.” astronaut.” growing at 5’8.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

nance is a compromise between today’s lifestyle and the township’s agricultural history. 
Suspect handcuffed to chair escapes police 
BUFFALO, N.Y. — If you’re in Buffalo and see a man handcuffed to a chair, call police. They’d like the chair back, along with the guy shackled to it. 
Authorities are looking for a robbery suspect who escaped from a Buffalo police station by slipping out a back door while handcuffed to a chair. 
Police tell Buffalo media outlets that 58-year-old John Caesar of Buffalo was taken into custody Tuesday for questioning in connection with the theft of money from the Anchor Bar, the restau­rant known for inventing the city’s famous chicken wings. 
Man acquitted of hot dog theft in Washington 
CHENEY, Wash. — A man has been cleared of a theft charge after a bemused jury in Washington state found him not guilty of stealing a 99-cent hot dog. 
It took jurors about five minutes to reach their verdict in the February trial. Juror Patrick Reeves tells The Spokesman-Review someone would “have to be an idiot” not to realize Richardson simply forgot to pay. 
Store officials declined to comment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Howard Hall “Be the Match” Bone Marrow Drive will be registering people for the National Bone Marrow Registry at both dining halls from 11 
a.m. to 7 p.m. today. Participants will receive a free loose-fitting tank top cus­tomized for the event. 
AnTostal carnival will take place on South Quad from 3 to 6 p.m. today. 
The Math for Everyone series will host “Mathematics and Astronomy: Kepler’s Laws of Planetary Motion” in the Digital Visualization Theatre at the Jordan Hall of Science. Arlo Caine will lead the presen­tation from 5 to 6:30 p.m. tonight. 
There will be a showing of the documentary film “Marwencol” in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center from 7 to 9 p.m. tonight. Th film is Jeff Malmberg’s documentary portrait of the imaginative artist Mark Hogancamp. The cost is $3 for students and $6 regular admission. 
The Notre Dame band cham­ber ensembles will give a free concert in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center from 7 to 8 p.m. tonight. 
The Gender Relations Center will host a Take Back the Night event at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes from 7 to 
10:30 p.m. tonight. 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. the Pasquerilla East Musical Company presents “Bring Me a Dream ... a musical revue” at Washington Hall. The cost is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY saturday sunday monday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



50 42 HIGH 6067 5455
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


45 39 LOW 4448 4339 







Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group dissolves Business Board, discusses safety 
By MEL FLANAGAN News Writer  only two.” Biro said the Student Business Board rarely meets and does not  for [FMB] when looking at the student businesses.” Biro said the amendment  be eliminated and the action is supported by those most closely involved,” Biro said.  said. In terms of the information that should be distributed,  
provide the oversight it was  would work toward solving the  After the group unanimously  Cavanaugh senator Gaby Nunez  
Student Senate approved an  designed to supply. As a result,  many ongoing troubles with the  passed the resolution, it dis- said freshmen should recognize  
amendment  to  dissolve  the  Biro said FMB already effectively  student businesses. For example,  cussed possible tactics for intro- Notre Dame Security Police  
Student Business Board and dis- manages the stu­ the  Student  ducing freshmen to South Bend  (NDSP) as an asset and encour­ 
cussed educating freshmen on safety in the South Bend commu­ dent businesses and the amend­ “Please be good  Business Board general manager  and informing them about safety issues.  age a positive relationship between NDSP and incoming  
nity at its meeting Wednesday. The Financial Management Board (FMB) supervises the Student Business Board, which  ment is only streamlining the process. If the amend- neighbors, please be respectful of adults and authority. These  did not make the required month­ly reports on the businesses to  Campus Technology chair Yiting Zheng said both her Freshman Orientation leader and her Resident Assistant spoke  students. “Cavanaugh has a really good relationship with the officers who walk through our dorms,”  
oversees the two student busi­nesses on campus, Irish Gardens and AdWorks. The amendment would eliminate the Student  ment is approved, the two student business man­agers will report  are the things we want to start conveying to  FMB, leading to communication problems. Biro highlight- to her about off-campus safety, but she felt more inclined to lis­ten to her Frosh-O leader than her RA.  she said. “I think that really helps with our opinions of them.” Chief of staff Claire Sokas said the most important thing to  
Business Board and make stu­ to FMB’s monthly  freshmen.”  ed the problem  Welsh Family senator Marcy  remember when dealing with  
dent businesses directly account- meetings as non- of  the  student  Kreimier said her hall recog- NDSP  is  to  grant  them  the  
able to FMB. “Student Business Board has lost its purpose in the past few  voting members. “Without a Student Business  Claire Sokas chief of staff  b u s i n e s s e s repeatedly end­ing the fiscal  nized the freshmen were more likely to converse freely with their Frosh-O staff than their  respect they deserve. “Please be good neighbors, please be respectful of adults  
years,” Student Union treasurer  Board  general  year in debt. He  Hall Staff.  and  authority,”  Sokas  said.  
Eric Biro said. “There used to be  manager  to  go  hopes  the  “During my Frosh-O there was  “These are the things we want to  
four businesses and it used to be  through, the student business  increased accountability to FMB  a time when the RAs and rectors  start conveying to freshmen.”  
a valuable resource to get the  managers can go directly to FMB  will  help  the  businesses  to  left and [the Frosh-O staff] said  
businesses together and talk about plans, but now there are  or to their advisor,” Biro said. “It’s one less layer for them and  become profitable in the future. “It’s a position that can easily  you can ask anything you want since we’re your peers,” she  Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu  



Band bids farewell to assistant director 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The recent Blue-Gold Game marked the last time Assistant Band Director Emmett O’Leary would lead the Marching Band in the “greatest of all University fight songs,” the “Notre Dame Victory March.” 
On March 15, O’Leary announced he will take leave at the end of the spring 2011 semester to pursue a Ph.D. in music education at Arizona State University after seven years in his position at Notre Dame. 
“The highlight [of my time here] has just been being able to be a part of this place, this University. We all talk about what a privilege it is to be a stu­dent or a member of the faculty here, and it’s totally true,” he said. “It’s been the privilege of my life to be able to serve on staff here.” 
Rene Rosas will replace O’Leary as the assistant band director for the 2011-2012 school year. 
O’Leary said the best part of his job was the excitement sur­rounding the first game day each year when the band ush­ered in the new football season. 
“Probably the biggest rush for me every time is the first game of the year when you hear the fight song, the victory march, when we do our first game-time march,” he said. 
O’Leary, a graduate of the University of Idaho, said work­ing with the band gave him the opportunity to be a part of the Notre Dame tradition, even though he did not attend the University as a student. 
“There’s a time when we’re in the practice field and you hear the band and look back and see the Stadium with the Dome and Basilica in the background, and it’s one of those ‘I’m really here’ moments,” he said. “That’s always really special.” 
As Assistant Band Director, O’Leary served as a co-director for the University Band, Symphonic Winds, Brass Ensemble and Varsity Band, and was the director for the Tuba-Euphonium Choir. 
Band members were informed of Rosas’ appointment via email Thursday. A graduate of the University of Texas and the University of Illinois, Rosas led marching bands at the University of Florida and Illinois State University, according to an email sent to band members. 
The email stated Rosas has already begun working with the flute and horn choirs at Notre Dame. O’Leary said he felt Rosas would succeed as assistant director once he officially begins work with the band after the spring semester. 
“I’m completely confident he’s going to do a great job. He’s extraordinarily qualified and a great person,” O’Leary said. “He’ll be a great addition.” 
Band president Michael Schwind said the band was ready to welcome Rosas to the mix but would find it difficult to see O’Leary go. 
“I’m sure we’ll do fine. I think Mr. Rosas is a good fit for the band,” Schwind said. “But it def­initely won’t be the same.” 
Band members were hit hard by O’Leary’s announcement, Schwind said. 
“When [O’Leary] sent out the email saying he was taking his leave, everyone I talked to was really upset,” Schwind said. “We all love him a lot.” 
O’Leary was well liked and went out of his way to ensure each member of the band enjoyed his or her experience, Schwind said. 
“[O’Leary] always saw himself as the one who cracked down, who laid down the law, but we all saw him as the fun-loving guy who cares so much for the band,” Schwind said. “He put in the extra time and effort to make sure everyone enjoyed band ... he really cared about the students and how they were enjoying the band experience.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 28, 2011 
Award 
continued from page 24 
need to address how we can use our privileges and influence to the best of our abilities to stand in solidarity with the poor.” 
Dahl, who serves as president and executive director of PIH, founded the nonprofit organiza­tion with cofounder and Harvard University professor Paul Farmer in rural Haiti in 1987 with the goal of providing a preferential option for the poor. Today, the organization directly involves more than 12,000 people at more than 60 hospitals and health centers in 12 countries to provide quality healthcare for the poor. 
In a private award ceremony, University president Fr. John Jenkins said PIH exemplifies the principle of solidarity in its work, aligning it closely with the serv­ice-oriented Notre Dame commu­nity. 
“I think [PIH] represents in their work the work of Christ, which is why we feel such an affinity for Partners In Health and why our students feel con­nected to their work,” he said. 
Fr. Robert Dowd, director of the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity, said the award recog­nizes people who make substan­tial contributions to international human development through research, practice, public service and philanthropy. 
The Ford Program chose to recognize PIH for its commitment to solidarity in providing holistic, community-based health care methods for the poor, Dowd said. 
“Partners In Health exemplifies what it is to come close to those in need by promoting healing and peace among them and understanding the relationship between social and economic contexts and health problems,” Dowd said. “They epitomize the values at the core of the Notre Dame mission by integrating the head and the heart to help the poor.” 
Steve Reifenberg, executive director of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, said the unique community-based struc­ture of PIH makes it a model for charity organizations around the world. 
“Partners in Health helped re-conceptualize the notion of a charity organization by connect­ing service, teaching and research,” he said. “This model for institutional innovation con­nects with the University and the Ford Program, and it focuses on charity in connection with soli­darity.” 
During the panel discussion, Dowd asked Dahl and Farmer about the relationship between the principles of Catholic social teaching and the overall mission of PIH. 
“I think Catholic social teach­ing has had a very deep impact on our work, but others who don’t share that background have been very involved in our work in equally meaningful ways,” Farmer said. “There are many complementary paradigms we can draw on.” 
Dahl said that although wor­ries about the scope and effec­tiveness of PIH’s work presents a challenge to the organization, she and Farmer emphasized the importance of optimism in fur­thering the mission of the organi­zation. 
“To even consider losing hope in the face of all this is a luxury many others can’t afford,” Dahl said. “We saw hope in the young workforce of Silicon Valley, where people are optimistic about solving health problems with technology.” 
Farmer echoed that view, praising the youth at Notre Dame for their potential to service the world. 
“This auditorium full of people at Notre Dame, the people we teach around the world, our patients … that’s a lot of affirm­ing, life-giving hope,” Farmer said. 
When asked about the relation­ship between poverty, violence and health care, Farmer said vio­lence makes it difficult, but not impossible, to provide services for the poor. 
“Structural and acute violence are invariably connected in that social disparities become entrenched and episodic violence happens in response,” he said. “It’s very difficult to deliver pub­lic health services in places with conflict, but it’s always possible. We rely on community health workers to do our best to deliver public health.” 
Farmer said this community-based approach to health care helps PIH provide more holistic care for the poor while allowing the organization to consider the larger structural issues that con­tribute to poverty and illness. 
“What we really want is to address the root causes of vio­lence and poverty,” he said. 
“Your generation is learning how to think by looking at the local and the large scale at the same time, which has been very help­ful to our organization. We must pay close attention to the illness in front of us while understand­ing the large-scale social forces that put patients at risk.” 
Dahl said this assessment of the base causes of poverty and illness translates directly to advo­cacy for improved conditions in poor countries. 
“As we studied health, we real­ized we couldn’t do our work without investigating these root causes and advocating for better conditions,” she said. “We are making sure we constantly assess how best to advocate for the poor, and we continue to partner with people who can advocate well.” 
Farmer said the first step in assessing the needs of a particu­lar place is to find the health issues that are most prevalent in that area. 
“We first look at the burden of disease of a place by asking peo­ple what the most common health problems are for the local population. Then we look at what’s being neglected,” he said. “Some diseases deemed rare and neglected aren’t rare at all, they just afflict the poor. All poor peo­ple’s health problems are neg­lected, so we have a lot of work to do.” 
Although these problems appear daunting, Farmer expressed confidence in the abili­ty of the next generation of med­ical professionals to solve global health issues. 
“Young doctors and clinicians are facing a series of seemingly intractable problems, but they’re really not intractable,” he said. “You need to take on those prob­lems and stick to them over time because we’re counting on you to improve them, and I’m confident that you will.” 


Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group discusses future ofdormprinterinitiative 

By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
At its final meeting of the semes­ter, the Saint Mary’s College Student Government Association (SGA) discussed the progress of the dorm printer initiative that began under Chesley-Smith administra­tion. The initiative’s future is unclear following its problematic first weeks. 
The students who tend Holy Cross Hall’s front desk and monitor printer usage have reported sever­al issues since the installation of the printer two weeks ago. The problems are attributed to mis­communications about procedures for printer support and the print­er’s unforeseen popularity among students. 
The Holy Cross printer was an experimental initiative undertaken by the Chesley-Smith administra­tion to evaluate the possibility of installing printers in dorms throughout campus. The Information Technology depart­ment was not involved in the initia­tive. Instead, the printer’s mainte­nance is solely SGA’s responsibility. 
One issue raised during the meeting was the confusion over the printer maintenance proce­dure caused by student govern­ment turnover. 
“A lot of the things that were established with the printer were not our doing and now we’re just making it work,” student body president Nicole Gans said. “We didn’t set up any procedures, it was really only to sustain until the end of the school year.” 
The previous administration set aside a budget and supplies based on a cost estimate of printer usage on campus from Coordinator of Student Computing Kathy Hausmann. The paper usage since the printer’s installation, however, has already surpassed the estimated amount. 
Gans suggested discontinuing the dorm printer initiative for the coming school year in considera­tion of unexpected costs. 
“This is something that we will really focus on next year,” Gans said. “If [the projected cost] is sur­passed, it would be very difficult to fit that flexibility into our budget next year. Our job is to respond to student needs, but I personally think that it would be a difficult expectation of SGA and an unreal­istic use of money to spend it on ink and paper for printers in every dorm.” 
Chief of staff Emily Skirtich noted the popularity of the printer among students as a sign of the need for printers in the dorms. 
“Since the need is so great, it may not be our responsibility to put printers in all of the dorms, but our job is to be the advocate for the student body, and this is some­thing that students want,” Skirtich said. 
Gans and student body vice pres­ident Jacqualyn Zupanic will meet with Hausmann next semester to discuss matters of technology. 
“[Vice President for Student Affairs] Karen Johnson told us not to meet with Kathy until next year. They will be going over technology this summer and things are going to change,” Gans said. “When we meet in the fall, we’ll know what we need to do and they will be able to give us better answers.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 

SMC student club shows LGBTQ Pride 
By MEGAN REECE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s kicked off its first annual Pride Week hosted by the College’s Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) Tuesday. 
The week began with a keynote address by Ryan Everett, a trans­gender member of the communi­ty. In his speech, “Living Life in Two Worlds,” Everett encouraged 
listeners to live their lives in a ful­filling way. 
“You really need to be who you are to be happy,” Everett said. “I’m finally living the authentic life I’d only dreamed of before.” 
Pride Week con­tinued Wednesday evening with an LGBTQ Fair in the Student Center lobby, where 
organizations 

“We’re here to students are encouraged to 
promote a safe 
wear LGBTQ-environment for related shirts. students on campus Borja said visible support on cam-
by making them feel 
pus is important 

free. It’s unjust for for promoting a 
people to have to hide safe and accept­ing atmosphere 
who they are.” 
conducive to learning. Karen Borja “We’re here to SAGA president promote a safe 
from around the community offered students internships, jobs and volunteer opportunities. 
“We want students to know that there is a supportive community in South Bend and they have the ability to expand it,” SAGA presi­dent Karen Borja said. 
SAGA will present the “LBGTQ Falling Stars” workshop from 
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today in the Warren Conference Room. According to Borja, the workshop will help participants reach a bet­ter understanding of the emotion­al challenges of the coming out process. 
Pride Week concludes Friday 
with a campus-wide effort to show pride and acceptance, as 
environment for 
students on cam­pus by making them feel free,” Borja said. “It’s unjust for people to have to hide who they are.” 
Contact Megan Reece at mreece01@saintmarys.edu 

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 28, 2011 

Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
er group of especially com­pelling addresses. 
Larkin 


continued from page 1 
compose a valedictory address which would be given at the Commencement Ceremony,” Jacobs said. “We then record them reading their address and create an audio file of each speech.” 
Jacobs said all five colleges were represented in the can­didate pool. 
“This year, we invited three students from the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Business, Engineering and Science and one student from the College of Architecture.” 
Some candidates have declined to submit speeches in the past, Jacobs said. 
“Not all of the students actu­ally choose to write an address for multiple reasons 
— among others, the appre­hension to deliver a speech in front of thousands of people at Commencement,” Jacobs said. “Of [this year’s candidates], all chose to actually write a sam­ple address.” 
After listening to all of the candidates’ submissions, the selection committee narrows their options down to a small­
“We then proceed to look at the résumés and letters of recommendation for these students to get to know them as a person,” Jacobs said. “From this, we pick a smaller group to interview face-to­face.” 
After these final interviews 
— and much anticipation amongst the interviewees — the valedictorian is selected. 
The initial candidates are also given the opportunity compose an invocation, the opening prayer delivered at the beginning of the Commencement Ceremony. The candidate chosen to give the invocation is recognized in addition to the selected vale­dictorian. 
“The 4.0 GPA candidates can choose which address they would like to write,” Jacobs said. “Both the valedictorian and the invocation addresser are announced together.” 
This year, Michelle Maurin, a mathematics major from Houston, will deliver the invo­cation at Commencement on May 22. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
Game 
continued from page 1 
bottle and a beer pong cup, which I thought was an ironic spot for a rector.” 
The selection process is held before the show films, Selak said. The producers ask the contestants a number of questions before determining the seating. 
“They didn’t ask me many questions,” she said. “I didn’t think I would get selected. They asked my parents a lot of questions.” 
Selak’s parents were also dressed in costume, her father as a golfer and her mother as Raggedy Ann. 
“You line up outside the studio,” she said. “There’s this line of people at 10 a.m. in Hollywood in strange cos­tumes.” 
Selak was selected early in the show, and Brady had Selak pick between two prizes with the hint words ‘dinner’ and ‘limo. ’ Selak picked the latter, winning a Beverly Hills shopping spree complete with limo, personal shopper, Chloe handbag and Christian Louboutin shoes. Selak opted for a cash prize over the limo and personal shopper. 
“I’m very happy with the choice I made,” she said. “I tend to be a very practical person – I don’t like name brands. … It’s a fun treat, a fun surprise.” 
Since the filming three months ago, Selak said she was required to keep silent about being on the show. After a press release was sent out earlier this week, she was allowed to confirm she was on the show but not if she had won anything. 
“It’s been very difficult to keep quiet,” she said. 
Selak said people stopped by her room in Walsh all day asking whether she won on the show, but they were left in suspense until the episode aired. A group of rectors watched it with Selak later in the day and Walsh Hall had an episode viewing as well. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Wave of storms cause deadlytornadosinSouth 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. — A wave of tornado-spawning storms strafed the South on Wednesday, splintering buildings across hard-hit Alabama and killing at least 77 people in four states. 
Some 61 people died in Alabama alone, including 15 in Tuscaloosa when a massive tor­nado barreled through the area. Sections of the city that’s home to the University of Alabama have been destroyed, the mayor said, and the city’s infrastruc­ture was devastated. 
Farther north, a nuclear power plant west of Huntsville lost power and was operating on diesel generators. In Mississippi, 11 deaths were reported, four people were killed in Georgia and one in Tennessee. 
In Tuscaloosa, news footage showed paramedics lifting a child out of a flattened home, with many neighboring build­ings in the city of more than 83,000 also reduced to rubble. A hospital there said its emer­gency room had admitted about 100 people, but had treated some 400. Charts weren’t even started for many patients because so many people were coming in at once. By midnight, only staff and patients were allowed inside. 
“What we faced today was massive damage on a scale we have not seen in Tuscaloosa in quite some time,” Mayor Walter Maddox told reporters, adding that he expected his city’s death toll to rise. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, April 28, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Talking about my generation 
It was 6 a.m. after two weeks in the wilderness on an Outward Bound trip and three days before my 19th birthday when my parents told me I was going to have a little brother. 
So much for the empty nest, Jack Yusko I guess. 
At first I did-Sports n’t believe 
Production Editor 
them. Then I thought we were adopting. Finally, despite being diagnosed with sec­ondary infertility right after I was born, my parents were going to have another kid. 
I tried to wrap my head around the fact that it was no longer going to be just my sister and I. 21, 19 and 0. Graduating from college, beginning college, being born. 
No longer would I be the pam­pered youngest child, but forced to assume the role of neglected, angsty middle child. 
After spending the fall semester planning how to most effectively grab attention through rebellion, I came home for winter break to find my mother very obviously expecting. This was a completely unsettling experience for me, as until this point I could pretend this was all imagi­nary or an elaborate practical joke. As break progressed, her due date kept moving earlier and earlier. 
I was presented with the idea that the munchkin might actually be born while I was home, and I would have to look the little newcomer in the eye and accept that he was real. 
January 7 came around and I got a text from my dad saying that he was taking my mom to the hospital, that it was time. 
I rushed home and stayed up all night with my sister, getting updates on the progress via texts and rushed phone calls. Finally, a little after the sun came up, William George was born. 
My sister and I drove to the hospi­tal after a few hours of sleep to meet the newest member of the family. I walked into the room to see my mom holding this tiny, sleeping bundle and heard her say, “He looks just like you,” before shedding tears of joy. 
I spent the rest of the last week of break playing and coming to terms with my new brother. It still seemed surreal that I would be telling peo­ple that I have two siblings or that I would get to watch him grow up. 
Over Spring and Easter break, he just kept getting bigger and more active, smiling, laughing and learn­ing to roll over. 
Having a 3-month-old back home has really put time in perspective for me: when I’m graduating from col­lege, he’s going to be 3. When I turn 30, he’ll be in middle school. I’m starting to see how much time we have beyond our four years at Notre Dame. 
I guess we never realize what we’re missing out on until it comes into our lives. 
I think we don’t fully appreciate things until we encounter them our­selves. 
Whatever the lesson is, I’m glad to be related to the first member of the class of 2033. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 

U.S. Interventionism 
Is it just me or is this “war” in Libya really dumb? The hawks and the pacifists are all unhappy with what Obama has gotten us and our allies into over there. It has been weeks and Gaddafi is not only still in power, but also seems to be winning in a campaign against NATO-backed rebels. The stupidest thing is that the Marines could take Tripoli (Barbary wars, redux?) and have Gaddafi dead or alive in 48 hours if we let 

Mark Easley 
them. If we decide to kill people in the 
Elephant in the 
name of freedom, we 
Room 
should do so deci­sively. Obama has been far from decisive on this conflict, not a good characteristic of an American president. 
Every time a new crisis erupts in the world it makes you think about the great power the U.S. holds in creating change. Take Libya as an example. You feel for rebel forces, forced to live under Gaddafi's oppressive rule for years. Coming from a rebellious tradition ourselves, it is easy to empathize with those who seek self-deter­mination. But who holds the real cards? Despite the rebels’ relatively impressive motivation and military capability early in the conflict, Gadhafi loyalists are using their superior weapons, organization and greater money supply to pound the oppo­sition into compliance. Not the story book ending we all want. 
We could finish this war in less than a week if we really tried, but we are fighting with both hands tied behind our back, our foot in our mouth and our head in the sand. Yet, if we exercise our power to help the rebels, we are seen as imperialists and meddlers. This story can be said for Iran, North Korea, Darfur, Israel, Bosnia, World War II, World War I, Iraq, Afghanistan and all situations that we choose to get involved with or ignore. Where does the ideology of spreading freedom end and the cost in blood and treasure begin? 

Throughout human history, the great world powers end up dictating the politics of their neighbors because global security and prosperity is dependent on a stable environment. The U.S. has been the big player in the world for the last hundred years and the lone superpower for the last twenty. Trade is necessary for prosperity and inevitably trade leads to invested interest in the economy and politics of a region. When a region becomes volatile, you can either leave and forget all the progress you have made there, or you can try to fix it. Even in cases where the U.S. doesn’t have direct interest, if our allies or trading partners can be significantly affected, then intervention can be war­ranted for the greater good. 
There are bigger issues at stake. There is a school of thought that the U.S. should not only show restraint in international intervention, but pull out of all the places we are in now and return to an isolationist foreign policy. Essentially we should ignore the outside world. While this may improve our short-term fiscal situation, it is also a pretty shortsighted philosophy. The fact is our ideology and way of life is a model that can lead to global prosperity and peace. 
Many countries are poor due to the fact that they are ruled by greedy and oppres­sive dictators. The system is against the people. If we want to make a dent in world poverty levels, there has to be an institutional change that supports free market capitalism and democratic govern­ment. Most of the time (pretty much every time), to get a fundamental change in a society requires military action. The indigenous population usually cannot pro­duce the means necessary to complete a successful revolution on their own (cough, cough, Libya), so outside help is needed to accomplish the goal. 
The fact is that if America doesn’t lead the way, other countries are too weak and apathetic to solve the problems that arise. Britain and France, while powerful on paper, are too small to fully commit their forces to winning the war in Libya and ini­tiating regime change. Libya isn’t even a big fish. German Nazism would have suc­ceeded in taking over Britain had the U.S. not stepped in. The USSR would have just bullied its way through Europe had the 
U.S. not had the resolve to halt the mili­taristic advance of authoritarian commu­nism. No one would have attacked Afghanistan for us if we didn’t do it our­selves in the aftermath of 9/11. 
Yes, America looks out for herself, but she also aids all free people. Who is going to stand up to the Soviet Union when they shut off all the energy resources to Europe? Who is going to stand up to China when it cracks down on its people and manipulates the global economy? Who is going stand up to North Korea when it threatens its neighbors? Who will keep the peace when the forces of dark­ness rattle the cages in the Middle East? America will. We are morally obligated to fight for what is right and to stand for those that aren’t strong enough to stand on their own. Yes it’s a burden, but it is a necessary one if we really believe in the greatness that free people can achieve. 
Even if we buy into my argument above, if we don’t execute it fully we will create a bigger mess than when we started: the Vietnam War, the Korean War, Bosnia, the Bay of Pigs, the Gulf War — the list goes on. America’s greatest mistakes are based on compromising our moral right­eousness in defending and extending lib­erty. I pray this won’t happen with Libya or any other country this president decides to bomb. Maybe that Hope and Change will show up eventually ... 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Legislation for marriage wastes time 
America crossed a threshold in 2011. For the first time, according to a CNN/Opinion Research survey, a majority of us approved of gay marriage. It was a slim majority (51 per­cent), but that number is sure to grow because 60 percent of those polled who are under 50 years old said they approve. 
This should come as no surprise since the number of peo­ple who are okay with gays getting married has slowly but surely been increasing. Why? Because the middle of America is filled with people who are actually fair and open minded. And it is the middle of America that decides how this country will deal with social issues. The fringes of this country are just that — fringes — and eventually they are outnumbered. 
Of course there is more to this slow change in America. It started when gays who had gone public urged others who were afraid to do the same. Then something happened. Many of us discovered that it was not that rare to have a gay family member or a friend who had a child that was gay or a neighbor who is gay. My two best lifelong friends both have sons who are gay. And, guess what, they are still my best friends and their sons are my friends too. 
That is why the proposed amendment in the Indiana legis­lature to ban gay marriage, which has language that could even ban gay unions, is a ridiculous waste of time. I am not saying Indiana should become a haven for gay marriage, but banning it, and possibly gay unions, is nothing but political pandering. 
What are some people afraid of? One of the old horse arguments is that we must protect the sanctity of marriage. Really? So if two gay people live together down the block from you, is that somehow going to strain your marriage? Anyone who thinks so should really spend more time work­ing on his or her lawn or maybe his or her own marriage. The lowest figure I could find on divorce in America current­ly is 41 percent. So how sanctified is that? 
Isn’t it time we just let people alone in their own houses and bedrooms. Live and let live. 
Michael Collins 
Class of ‘67 South Bend, IN Apr. 27 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If there are no stupid questions,then what kind of questions dostupid people ask? Do they getsmart just in time to askquestions?” 
Scott Adams 
U.S. comic creator and author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We hate some persons because wedo not know them; and we will not know them because we hate them.” 
Charles Caleb Colton English cleric and writer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 28, 2011 page 9 
The first loves of Easter 
The names are what first catch my attention. As we exult in these Easter days (as best we can with finals hovering over us), we immerse ourselves in the Gospel stories of the Resurrection. For all the spir­
itual fireworks that  
are about to erupt  Fr. Lou DelFra  
with the revelation of  
Jesus’ rising from  Faithpoint  
the dead, these well- 
known stories of our  

faith all begin with simple, single, precisely identified names — of a few women. 
They come, not to get front-row seats for the fireworks, about which they know nothing, but in fear and love to pack Jesus’ dead body with burial spices. The story of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ begins with simple names — people approaching a tomb tentatively, in darkness and fear. 
The evangelist Mark begins, “When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome brought spices so that they might anoint him.” 
Buried within this simple statement of fact are numerous, profoundly interesting questions. Given the violent revile with which the Jerusalem crowd had killed Jesus the day before, at what risk did these women expose themselves as his fol­lowers by bringing spices that morning? After the gathering of fellowship at the Thursday Passover meal, so filled with intimate exchanges of friendship and camaraderie, where were the 11 remain­ing apostles? With guards alerted that Jesus’ body might be stolen by his disciples so as to claim a resurrection, what opposi­tion must these women have faced, surely from armed guards, as they made their way alone and unarmed to Jesus’ tomb that morning? What courage stirred in their hearts and moved their feet toward the tomb, while others ran away in fear? 
Matthew: “After the Sabbath, as the first day of the week was dawning, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb.” What was it like for two women to make their way through the streets, unaccompanied in the dark hours of the morning, almost begging to be iden­tified as sympathizers for a publically exe­cuted criminal? Indeed, they would be identified as sympathizers at best, co-con­spirators more likely. And so, worthy too of execution or at least imprisonment and other tactics of intimidation. 
Luke: “When Jesus’ body was taken down from the cross, the women who had come from Galilee with him followed behind, and when they had seen the tomb and the way in which his body was laid in it, they returned and prepared spices and perfumed oils — Mary Magdalene, Joanna and Mary the mother of James.” Luke says they followed Jesus’ expired body from the time it was taken down from the cross, directly to his burial place. Moments before, authorities and the crowd taunted Jesus, daring him to fulfill his claims that he was the Son of God by coming down from the cross. Perhaps it is not hard to imagine what this same crowd asked of these women in the minutes after Jesus refused to come down, on their way to bury their failed Messiah. Luke does not record the taunts and curses that surely were thrown their way, like stones at a dis­covered adulteress. Luke, however, is clear about one detail: they followed, to see where their friend — failed Messiah though he may have been — was to be buried, that they might return and take care of him. 

These are the beginnings of each of the Resurrection stories. Love. Human love. Love for a friend. Unconditional love, for 
— as far as they knew — their beloved’s mission had utterly failed. Yet, at least for these disciples, they were not following an abstract mission. They were following a person, a person whom they loved and who had revealed Love to them. And so they kept following, with no apparent hesi­tation to face jeering crowds, armed guards, dark streets, the tomb of a publi­cally humiliated criminal. 
The heart of the Resurrection is the love of God for his Son Jesus, and through Jesus, for all of us. It is a love that is revealed on this Easter morning to be the strongest force in the universe — stronger even than the most inescapable power we know, the power of death. The Resurrection is, ultimately, about the love of God. 
But isn’t it noteworthy that the stories of the Resurrection all begin with human love? To whom would the Resurrection have been revealed, if no one had loved enough to go to the tomb? To make the intimidating, failure-confirming, dark jour­ney to the grave? He loved us — yes, this would be confirmed in the fireworks that awaited at the rolled-away stone. This, surely, is our salvation. And yet, something else important, perhaps essential, is revealed to us at the Resurrection through these women who approach the tomb. 
We love him. 
Not an abstract love. A love for a real person we have come to know and believe in. Who has stared into our eyes and enkindled our hearts. Who has engen­dered in us … love. 
John: “Mary of Magdala stayed outside the tomb weeping. And as she wept, she bent over into the tomb.” Who bends over into death? One in whom the love for the person of Christ has been deeply planted, and who has the freedom and courage to let it direct one’s actions. It is from this reality — that we love him — that the glory of the Resurrection rushes upon us and renews the face of the earth. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC of Campus Ministry Bible Studies and ACE chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The point of diversity 
I completely agree with Ms. Lujan’s April 27 letter (“A different way to be Latino”) where she says, “Our identity is marred by placing ourselves in an exclusive, single-minded group.” 
Although I was born in Dallas, Texas, my mother and father grew up in El Salvador and Argentina, respectively. We spoke Spanish at home, and I only learned English when I start­ed preschool. We often visited family in El Salvador, Costa Rica and Argentina. We moved to South Florida when I was six years old and most of our family friends there are from Venezuela, Colombia, Cuba, Mexico and more. Latin American culture has permeated almost every aspect of my life, from language to food to holidays to prayer. 
And yet, I spoke English at school, read books in English, watched American TV and read American magazines. While I felt com­pletely comfortable with my Latin American family, I always felt isolated from the Latino kids I grew up around, most of whom were born in their country of origin. From the way they treated me, it felt as though I was never “Latino enough” for them, that they saw me as “too Americanized.” On the other hand, I always felt more comfortable with my American classmates, who thought it was “really cool” that I spoke Spanish and were always very interested in my background. 
But why was there such a divide between the two camps? As Ms. Lujan stated, “We should have a more utilitarian and progressive approach to being Latino that does not create barriers with those around us or view them as hostile buffoons we need to fight.” I do not oppose Latino student groups in any way; in fact, I applaud the initiative to keep the differ­ent aspects of Latin American culture alive in the United States. However, this should not lead to an “us versus them” approach. We must all recognize that all cultures are impor­tant, and that preserving our own should not lead to shutting out others who are different from us. 
As Ms. Lujan also stated, groups like MEChA are not the only way to share our culture. When I arrived at Notre Dame in 2006, I had no idea who my friends would be. Four years later, I left Notre Dame with a B.A. in English and friends with a myriad of backgrounds. I taught my roommate phrases in Spanish and she taught us Irish drinking songs. My Ukrainian-American friend shared stories of Ukie school, camps, balls and weddings, all entrenched in their own unique culture. I met up with a friend for pizza while we were both visiting family in Costa Rica. My Vietnamese friends introduced me to pho before it ever arrived at North Dining Hall. We went to the Hawaii Club Lu'au every year to support mul­tiple friends during their performances. Situations like these and more not only made me appreciate the cultures of my friends, but also to appreciate my own as I, in turn, shared it with them. 
My experience is only one perspective. I know that not all Latino kids are like the ones I grew up around, and I am sure that my expe­rience does not mirror that of all Latino stu­dents at Notre Dame. However, I believe that isolation is never the answer, and that respect will come where respect is given. Isn't the point of diversity to expose ourselves to people different from us, allowing for a mutual shar­ing of cultures? If we, as Latinos, open our­selves to others, we cannot say we will never receive openness in return. 
Michelle Romeu 
Class of 2010 Arlington, VA Apr. 27 


Hopelessly devoted 
As a Mets fan since my birth in 1991 in Bergen County, N.J., I’m quite familiar with their routine futility. I find myself in agreement with Laura Coletti's remark that Mets­fanhood is a metaphor for life — with a minor rephrasing. Rooting for the Mets, I’ve noticed, is just like life. Although at times it can be promising and inspiring, in reality it is hopeless. No matter how many times you win, you will ulti­mately lose. And the world will laugh at your feeble, mean­ingless attempts. 
Arthur Kostendt 
sophomore Dillon Hall Apr. 27 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Thursday, April 28, 2011 
PEMCo Revue 
Where: Washington Hall 
When: 7:30 p.m. 
How Much: $3 
The student-run musical theater company is putting on their Revue this year, called “Bring Me a Dream...” The show will feature tal­ented performers from PEMco’s past plays and the night promises spec­tacular performances. All proceeds from the event go to Hannah and Friends, a nonprofit organization for children and young adults affected by autism. 
Battle of the Bands 
Where: Legends 
When: 9 p.m. to midnight 
How Much: Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID 
An impressive ten band lineup squares off this year in the 2011 Battle of the Bands. The bands have been practicing all year — some even performing at Legends throughout the semester — to pre­pare for this event. Follow the guitar riffs and original songs to this unique event and hear some great local bands. 
Augustana 

Where: Legends 
When: 10 p.m. 
How Much: Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID 
SUB is bringing the band best known for its popular song “Boston” to Legends for their last concert of the year. Although most only know Augustana for their 2005 hit, the band just released their fourth album, “Augustana.” Their concert will no doubt showcase their beauti­ful voices and thoughtful, captivating music. 
Keenan Hall’s Muddy Sunday 
Where: Holy Cross Fields 
When: 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
How Much: $8 per team mem­ber, online registration 
Find your inner child this weekend at Keenan Hall’s signature event, Muddy Sunday. Sign up with seven of your friends to play volleyball in the mud to support the Notre Dame Chapter of Habitat for Humanity. The messy event takes place between the lakes, and though you may leave in need of a shower, you will not leave in need of a good time. 
10. “You have to play to win, but you 
have to win to play” 
Michael Scott after attending a Tony Robbins lecture … well actually a lecture about buying his tapes. 
9. Celebrate everything 
It’s important to boost morale with sur­prises and parties, especially when the devil from HR is leaving forever. 
8. An office is a family 
Michael genuinely loved all of his work­ers, sometimes too much. In his 9,876,000 minutes at Dunder Mifflin, he unified his workers in marriage, on the basketball court and elsewhere. 
7. Safety First 
Don’t start a fire with your cheesy-pita. 
6. Control the story before the story 
owns you 
Otherwise the Scranton Times gets its hands on it, then Newsweek and YouTube. 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 

An era will end this Thursday when Michael Scott (Steve Carell) leaves “The Office.” Always an incredi­ble motivator, hard worker and leader, Michael taught his dedicated fans not only how to be the world’s best boss, but also practical lessons in management that our top ranked business program could add to its syl­labus. Here’s a brief rundown of Michael Scott’s Top Ten Keys to Success in Business. 
5. Don’t be an idiot  
Looking at you, Dwight. 
4. “Adapt, react, readapt, act” 
On going outside after the fire alarm goes off 
3. “Don’t ever, for any reason, do 
anything to anyone, for any reason, 
ever no matter what, no matter 
where or who or who you are with, or 
where you are going, or where you’ve 
been … Ever for any reason what-so­
ever.” 

Michael Scott, explaining to CFO David Wallace why his branch is succeeding while the rest of the company is going bankrupt. 
2. The Bob Hope Factor 
A solid sense of humor is key to being a good leader. 
…and I will give the rest to you after lunch! 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, April 28, 2011 page 11 


It’s true. Love really does conquer all. It is taking Michael rified that more dynamics are going to change. I was ecstatic Scott (Steve Carell), Scranton regional manager of Dunder when Andy and Angela (Angela Kinsey) broke up — Andy Mifflin, Inc. Paper Company, a Division of Sabre, and self-pro-could do so much better. I weathered the buyout by Sabre — claimed “World’s Best Boss,” away from the employees he Gabe (Zach Woods) holds a special place in my heart now. I loves to Colorado. To his match made in twerp heaven. cheered when Darryl (Craig Robinson) moved out of the ware-
Though unexpected, Holly Flax house — though I still am not really sure what exactly he does. (Amy Ryan) completes Michael in 
But I can’t see Will Ferrell entering the cast. And I can’t see ways no one expected. Michael’s 
anyone replacing Michael. Not without “The Office” changing childish — and at times annoying — 
drastically. humor has captivated audiences and 
I have devoted the past seven years to falling in love — and kept them in stitches. But it has also 
sometimes out of love — with “The Office” and its quirky char-hindered Michael’s search for love. 
acters. I tuned in every Thursday to see what new adventures That is, until Holly came along. And 
they got themselves into. And I will probably continue to watch despite our joy at seeing him finally 
after Michael leaves, if only because it is such a large part of head over heels in love, his depar­
my life. But, after tonight, “The Office” won’t be the show I care ture leaves a question burning in our so much about. It will be different — almost a spin-off, but hearts — how will this change “The under the same name. Office?” So when I tune in tonight for the special 50-minute goodbye 
Honestly, I am not sure if the episode, I’ll be saying goodbye to more than just Michael and beloved TV show can stay afloat or Holly. I’ll be saying goodbye to Thursday night between 9 and remain as popular after Michael departs. While Steve Carell 9:30 p.m. as I have known it. Maybe “The Office” post-Michael did not carry the show alone by any means, he characterized will be better. Maybe it will be worse. But it definitely will not it. Other cast members depended on him for many of their be the same. laughs or defined their character based on their role in And my vote for Michael’s replacement? Darryl, hands down. Michael’s life. While Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) can suck up to I may not know what he does in his office, but then again I anyone, Dwight (Rainn Wilson) is Michael’s perfect puppy dog. never fully understood what Michael did, other than pull His personality would clash with many others. pranks and plan parties. Darryl would be a great fit and he 
Also, though I hate to admit it, Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam brings a big enough personality to the table that he could chal­(Jenna Fischer) just aren’t as funny and cute married as they lenge his employees in a humorous way. If only NBC had asked were when they were dancing around each other. It’s almost me. as if the show lost something at their wedding, though it was the right move for their relationship. It was downright The views expressed in this column are those of the author adorable, no question. But a dynamic has changed. and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I guess that is my biggest fear with Michael leaving. I am ter-Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 


By COURTNEY COX 


SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 12 
MLB 

Phillies’ bats wake up and avoid sweep by Diamondbacks 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Philadelphia had the pitching, not the hitting in the opener. Second game, they had hitting, no pitching. 
Facing their first sweep in the desert in nearly four years, the Phillies got the hitting and the pitching to inch closer toward their winningest open­ing month ever. 
Cole Hamels pitched seven solid innings after being padded to an early lead and the Phillies kept swinging on their way to an 8-4 win over the Arizona Diamondbacks on Wednesday. 
“Anytime you hit, you feel good about yourself,” Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. 
Philadelphia didn’t do it in the opener, shut out to spoil Cliff Lee’s solid start. The Phillies banged out five runs the second game, but still lost because Roy Oswalt wasn’t quite right. 
In the series finale, Jimmy Rollins keyed a big first inning with an RBI double and Ben Francisco knocked in two more with another double. Rollins later hit a two-run homer, and Shane Victorino and Ryan Howard also hit solo shots. 
Placido Polanco continued his torrid start to the season, get­ting four of Philadelphia’s 12 hits and scoring three runs to extend his hitting streak to eight games. 
That was more than enough for Hamels (3-1), who pitched the Phillies to their 16th win in April, one short of the team record set in 1993. 
“Coming away with a win for us today was good, just for the fact that we came out of the gate quick,” Hamels said. 
Hamels and the hard-hitting Phillies never gave the Diamondbacks much of a chance at the sweep. 
Philadelphia roughed up starter Joe Saunders (0-3) early and tagged Arizona’s bullpen, providing enough cushion to absorb Chris Young’s two-run homer in the sixth inning off Hamels and solo shot off Antonio Bastardo in the eighth that cut Philadelphia’s lead to 7-4. 
Howard pushed the lead back to four with a towering leadoff homer in the ninth to center field off J.J. Putz. 
“You are not going to pitch good in every game,” Arizona manager Kirk Gibson said. “Give them some credit. They put some good swings on us and hit good pitches as well. We kept fighting and had opportunities, but they shut us down when it counted.” 
Philadelphia came into the series on a five-game winning streak and looked to extend it with Lee and Oswalt lined up to face the struggling Diamondbacks. 
Those two couldn’t get it done, leaving it up to Hamels to avoid the sweep. 
The left-hander wasn’t quite as dominant as his shutout against the Mets on Friday, but was good enough against the Diamondbacks. 
Hamels gave up an RBI dou­ble to Melvin Mora after a leadoff walk in the second inning, then retired the next 10 batters before pinch hitter Juan Miranda led off the sixth with a triple. Young hit the next pitch out to left for a two-run homer, cutting Philadelphia’s lead to 6-3. 
Hamels came back out to fin­ish off the seventh after allow­ing three runs on four hits, picking up the win Philadelphia hoped to get from Lee and Oswalt. 
“I don’t necessarily think it was a pick up,” said Hamels, who threw 100 pitches for the fourth straight start. “You’re not going to have good games all the time, but just knowing these are some of the best pitchers in the game and you have to go out and pick up your end of the bargain.” 
The Diamondbacks won the series’ first two games behind solid outings from Ian Kennedy and Daniel Hudson, and were hoping for another from Saunders, who allowed a run on two hits in six innings of a no-decision against the Mets on 
Friday. 
They didn’t get it. 
Hit hard almost from his first pitch, Saunders gave up three straight hits to open the game and three runs in the inning, on a run-scoring double by Rollins and Francisco’s two-run, ground-rule double. 
Victorino hit a two-out solo homer in the second and Rollins lifted his first homer to left off Saunders in the fifth, a two-run shot that put the Phillies up 6-1. 


Saunders lasted 5 2-3 innings, giving up six runs on 10 hits. 
“You have to keep your head up, turn the page and get ready for next time because I don’t think I am pitching that bad,” said Saunders, who has lost his last four decisions, dat­ing to last season. “It is just the results aren’t there yet. I am going to go home, sacrifice a live chicken and turn this thing around.” 
NBA 

Smart out after one year as Warriors head coach 
Peter Guber. one likes to make changes that the assistant general manager held a small stake in the team. 
Associated Press 

Only a rare playoff appearance affect someone’s life,” Lacob said and Riley’s eventual successor. Lacob would like to move swift-
OAKLAND, Calif. — This was was likely to save Smart’s job. a few hours later, speaking before The new coach will decide ly in finding a new coach and one shot Keith Smart couldn’t “I wouldn’t say it was impossi-the unveiling of a refurbished whether to keep the assistants on acknowledged the front office has make. ble,” Warriors general manager court bearing his name at Haight staff. a short list of potential candidates. 
Maybe nobody could. Larry Riley said of Smart’s chal-Elementary School in nearby Lacob said Riley and his staff “We’re going to look for some-
The Golden State Warriors part-lenge. “But it was difficult. We all Alameda. “It’s something we felt will make the choice on a new one with, certainly, experience, ed ways with their head coach know that.” that we really had to do. We really coach, with his input. While Lacob someone with a lot of great ability Wednesday, the first major fallout The new brass managed to want to strive to be a great team would prefer someone with previ-to relate to players,” Lacob said. this offseason from a new owner-hastily put Smart in place even and we felt that we could improve ous NBA head coaching experi-“We’re going to look at a number ship group that has promised before the NBA officially approved ourselves.” ence, that won’t be a require-of people and try to make the best sweeping changes to the perenni-the sale of the Warriors last year The new owners have vowed to ment. He declined to say whether choice we can to be the best we al underachieving franchise. for a record $450 million from restore the franchise to past glory the Warriors are interested in for-can.” 
Smart, the Indiana guard best longtime owner Chris Cohan. with splashy signings and playoff mer Utah Jazz coach Jerry Sloan Smart had little time to deliver known for hitting “The Shot” Smart was only given a one-year performances. The Warriors have or NBA analyst and former them a winner. against Syracuse that won the contract with a team option for made the postseason just once Knicks and Rockets coach Jeff He declared from the moment Hoosiers the 1987 NCAA title, next season, and he was often since 1994; yet fans in the basket-Van Gundy — two names who he began that he would put his spent seven years as an assistant labeled a fill-in candidate charged ball-crazy Bay Area remain some have surfaced already. own stamp on the bench no mat-with Golden State before he with overseeing the transition. of the most loyal and vocal in a Others sure to receive attention ter how long his tenure lasted. He replaced Don Nelson just before The coach met with Lacob and market saturated with sports include former Cleveland walked around the locker room training camp. The Warriors went the basketball operations staff in teams. Cavaliers coach Mike Brown and before training camp asking for a 36-46 under Smart, a 10-game the morning and was told he Golden State already had decid-Lawrence Frank, the one-time handshake from each player, sig­improvement from the previous wouldn’t be retained. ed to keep Riley as GM. The team New Jersey Nets coach who’s now naling a pact that they would season but clearly not enough to “It’s a very complex decision also hired longtime NBA agent the top assistant with the Boston allow Smart to coach them and be appease owners Joe Lacob and and not an easy thing to do. No Bob Myers a few weeks ago to be Celtics — where Lacob previously involved in their lives. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Don't go it alone.  
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help.  Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you.If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance,  
For more information, visit Notre Dame's website:  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  
http://csap.nd.edu ———————————————  For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu. ———————————————  

PERSONAL 
FOR RENT 
House for rent. Faculty-grad stu­dents near ND. 2BR 2.5BA, living room, dining room, fam room, FL room. Security system. 2 car garage. Fenced yard. Colfax &amp; Twyckenham. Call 262-332-0015 —————————————— 
3 bedroom close to SMC/ND. Hardwood floors, laundry, bright and spacious. No pets. Available mid June. 269-429-6346 ——————————————— 
WANTED 

Aquamarine Anniversary Ring Lost in ladies room of North Dining Hall. 
$100.00 reward for return, no ques­tions asked. Lori (the line lady) 574­226-3876. 
When I got married we could not afford an engagement ring. I was given this ring for my 25th anniver­sary. 
Email haselrick.1@nd.edu ——————————————— Parks and Recreation 
Chris: Have you ever tried a turkey burger? Ron: Is that a fried turkey leg inside a grilled hamburger? If so, yes, deli­cious 
Chris: Pawnee is, as you all know, the fourth most obese city in America. Tom: Soon to be number three. We're coming for you San Antonio. 
Ann: How was your run? Chris: Ended with a five-and-a-half­minute mile. My personal low. I think the pavement in this town is soft. ——————————————— 
Tom: Twilight is dope. I couldn't put it down. It was like she was peering into my soul. Kelly: Sing it, friend. Here, book two. Twilight: New Moon. Get crackin'. Tom: There's a second book? Kelly: And a third. And a fourth. Tom: No [expletive] way. ——————————————— 
To my friend Khoa Hyunh, I am still not sure if I Pronounce your name right. ——————————————— 
Welcome to ND. Sara, we’ll show you good times But May will be best. ——————————————— 

Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

Gallardo struggles in loss 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — Ryan Braun, Prince Fielder and Casey McGehee have all gotten off to sizzling starts for the Brewers. All three went quiet against Aroldis Chapman and the Reds. 
The middle of Milwaukee’s order finished 0 for 12 and ace Yovani Gallardo gave up six runs in the Brewers’ 7-6 loss in 10 innings to Cincinnati on Wednesday. 
“It’s just the way it is. Our swings were good. That’s base­ball, unfortunately. You can’t average four hits a game,” Fielder said. “It’s not basket­ball. It’s not going to be a high scoring percentage every day.” 
Drew Stubbs hit a solo homer in the 10th inning off Sergio Mitre (0-1) that was the differ­ence after Milwaukee had ral­lied to tie from deficits of 4-0 and 6-4. 
“Baseball is crazy. Like today, we lost the game by one run. The big guys today in the lineup didn’t do too good,” cen­ter fielder Carlos Gomez said. 
The Brewers would’ve set­tled for one timely hit in the eighth when Chapman (2-0) got out of a bases-loaded jam using 101 mph fastballs. 
After Chapman hit Rickie Weeks to load the bases, he struck out Gomez and forced Braun to weakly ground out on a 101 mph offering. 
“It’s tough. You just know you put it in play and anything can happen. Obviously that’s why they brought him in because they needed strikeouts at the time,” Brewers manager Ron Roenicke said. “Once he hit Rickie, I felt pretty good. 


And then all of a sudden he was throwing strikes.” 
Francisco Cordero pitched a perfect 10th for his fourth save in as many chances. 
After throwing a two-hitter in a 1-0 win over Atlanta on April 5, Gallardo has given up at least four runs in his last four starts as his ERA has bal­looned from 1.20 to 5.69. 
He gave up three straight hits to start the game and Joey Votto hit a 3-1 fastball over the Brewers’ bullpen in left-center field to make it 3-0. Paul Janish’s sacrifice fly made it 4­0. 
“I feel fine. I think it’s just a matter of finding a rhythm I guess. I felt a lot better as the game went on,” Gallardo said. “I just got to keep moving for­ward. I know you guys keep hearing the same thing from me but I can’t go back and chance anything. 
Gomez’s two-run single in the third, Lucroy’s grounder in the fourth and a throwing error by Janish, the shortstop, allowed a run tied it. 
Braun set a franchise record for reaching base safely in con­secutive games to start a sea­son at 24 when he was hit by a pitch in the fifth to top Robin Yount’s mark that stood 28 years, but both Braun and McGehee saw 11-game hitting streaks snapped. 
“They took good at-bats, but no results,” Gomez said. “Sometimes you feel good, you do good and you don’t get any results. Sometimes you feel worse and you get a lot of base hits.” 


page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 28, 2011 Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

NBA 

Miami closes out Philadelphia, Boston next 

Associated Press 
MIAMI — Not easy. But over. 
For the first time since 2006, the Miami Heat have won a playoff series — and, finally, can start thinking in earnest about another showdown with the Boston Celtics. 
Dwyane Wade scored 26 points, Chris Bosh added 22 points and 11 rebounds, and the Heat advanced to the Eastern Conference semifinals by topping Philadelphia 97-91 on Wednesday night and oust­ing the 76ers in five games. 
Mario Chalmers scored 20 points off the bench and LeBron James finished with 16 points, 10 rebounds and eight assists for Miami. Joel Anthony made a pair of free throws with 16.8 seconds left for the Heat, who will face Boston starting Sunday afternoon in Miami. 
It’s the first series win for the Heat since the 2006 NBA finals. 
“We’re going to be ready,” Wade said. “Philly got us ready.” 
Andre Iguodala and Elton Brand each scored 22 points for Philadelphia, which got 13 from Thaddeus Young, 12 from Jodie Meeks and 10 from Jrue Holiday. 
And like four of the other five games in this series, it wasn’t easy for the Heat, who saw a double-digit lead cut to one in the final minute before hanging on to advance. 
Philadelphia had a chance to tie with 1:10 left, but Evan Turner’s baseline jumper bounced off the rim and James grabbed his 10th rebound — marking the first time the Heat had three double-digit rebounders in the same playoff game since the title-clinching Game 6 of the 2006 NBA finals at Dallas. 
Wade made a 3-pointer with 
8:34 left, pumped his fist on his way up the sideline, and Miami was up 81-71. He crossed Iguodala over twice for baskets later in the period, each of those giving the Heat eight-point leads. 


Philadelphia simply would not go away. The Sixers got within two on three occasions and — helped by a technical foul assessed by Steve Javie against Wade with 51 seconds left, cut Miami’s lead to one point at 90-89 and again at 92-91. 
Anthony swished a pair of free throws with 16.8 seconds left, restoring the three-point edge. Iguodala missed on Philadelphia’s next possession, and Miami finally escaped. 
“We fought to the finish,” Philadelphia coach Doug Collins said, “as we said we were going to do.” 
Wade capped it with a dunk with a half-second left, as white seat covers got tossed around the arena triumphant­ly by the sellout crowd. Collins and Heat coach Erik Spoelstra shared a warm handshake moments later, most of the two rosters exchanged quick hugs, and then Miami retreated back to its locker room for what was surely a quick celebra­tion. 
After all, Boston awaits. 
“Looking forward to it,” James said. 
Collins said “it’ll be interest­ing” to see what Spoelstra does in the next round when it comes to Miami’s lineup. Mike Bibby and Zydrunas Ilgauskas only played 4:27 apiece, benched the rest of the way after another slow start, and Chalmers and Anthony started the second half. 
Collins also acknowledged being emotional in Philadelphia’s postgame locker room. 
“I’ve enjoyed the ride all year,” said Collins, who insist­ed he plans to return if the Sixers want him. 
James created a bit of a stir before the game — by, of all things, quoting rapper Jay-Z. 
Asked after Miami’s morning shootaround practice about the need to finish Philadelphia off on Wednesday to allow time to finally start preparing for Boston, James said the Heat were focusing on, “just finishing our breakfast,” the lyric Jay-Z used. 
Collins shrugged it off as “an analogy.” But some Sixers seemed to take offense at the comment — Lou Williams was giving teammates various breakfast-item nicknames before the game, saying some were fruit salad, others flap­jacks. 
Maybe it was no coincidence that James was nearly held to another breakfast food — a bagel, otherwise known as 0 points — in the first half. He had only three points at inter­mission, matching his playoff career low, and the stage was set for another down-to-the­wire night. 
Much of Miami’s emphasis on Tuesday and before the game Wednesday was on starting more quickly. Still, for the fourth time in five games, Philadelphia had Miami in a double-digit hole in the open­ing quarter. 
The Sixers made nine of their first 11 shots, running out to leads of 16-5 and 20-10 
— before, as was the case throughout the series, the first substitutions for Miami started paying dividends. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 28, 2011 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles cancel pair of games against Albion 
matchups for the week 
By JOSEPH MONARDO rained out, the Belles are 
Sports Writer ready to get back on the 
field to face Hope (22-11-1, 
The Belles were forced to 9-1 MIAA) this afternoon. cancel a scheduled double-The matchup against Hope, header once again which was originally sched-
We dnesday due to inclement weather, this time against conference 
opponent Albion. 
Bad weather has hounded Saint Mary ’s (14 -11, 3-5 MIAA) all sea­son, leading to two can ­celled double­headers and the postpone­
“We are always prepared for rainouts and rescheduled games but the amount we have had this season by far exceeds any of my previous seasons.” 
Hayley Bojorquez 
senior outfelder 
ment of several other games. The most recent rainout left Saint Mary ’s and Albion (16 -14, 6-6 MIAA) with a conference matchup to reschedule before the MIAA tourna ­ment, which begins May 5. The Belles have only uled for April 19, has been postponed a total of three times leading up to today. 
The Saint Mary’s players were thor ­
oughly frus ­trated by the multiple delays and are eager to retake the field, Bojorquez said. 
“At this point, we would-n't care if we had to play in the rain,” she said. “Rain 
or  shine,  we  want  to  be  on  
o u r  f i e l d  p l a y i n g  o u r  
game.”  

In addition to the still 
unscheduled matchup against Albion, the 
played one Belles have 
“At this point, we
doubleheader their senior 
wouldn't care if we
in the last 16 day game days, during had to play in the against Olivet 
which stretch rain. Rain or shine, we and an away 
games have game at Calvin 
want to be on our field
been post -on the sched­poned a total playing our game.” ule after they of five times. face Hope. Even taking Currently sit ­
Hayley Bojorquez 
into account ting at sixth 
senior outfelder
the perennial bad weather of the region, this season has been espe­cially impeded by postpone­ments. 
“We are always prepared for rainouts and resched ­uled games but the amount we have had this season by far exceeds any of my pre­vious seasons,” senior out-
f i e l d e r  H a y l e y B o j o r q u e z  
said.  
A f t e r  h a v i n g  t h e i r  

Tuesday and Wednesday 
place in the 
MIAA stand ­
ings, the Belles will have to perform especially well against con­ference foes Hope, Olivet and Albion to keep their postseason hopes alive. 
Weather permitting, the first pitch will be thrown against Hope at 3:30 p.m. at the Saint Mary’s softball fields. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at monardo@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Butler game postponed 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame’s non-conference home game against Butler sched­uled for Wednesday evening was postponed due to a heavy rain­storm that set off a flash flood advisory in the area. 
The announcement to postpone Notre Dame’s 5:35 p.m. contest against the Bulldogs (15-19, 4-8 Horizon) came Wednesday after­noon after the storm flooded the field and conditions were deemed unsuitable to play in. The game will be rescheduled. 
The rainout is the fifth postpone­ment of the year due to darkness or weather for the Irish (14-20-1, 5-9 Big East). Their March 22 home opener against Oakland was postponed, as was their Saturday series finale in New York against St. John’s, leading to an eight-day gap between games. 
The Irish last played in a dou­bleheader April 21 against the Red Storm, 21-13 and 10-4, Notre Dame dropped both games, including a loss highlighted by a 15-strikeout shutout from Red Storm sophomore right-hander Kyle Hansen. 
The Irish will return to action and host Big East foe Seton Hall this weekend for a three-game series starting Friday at 6:35 p.m. and concluding Sunday at 11:05 
a.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 



Now Open Tilted Kilt Pub & Eatery 
1032 E. University Dr. Granger, IN 
Full service menu and bar, 32 TV’s, 
All sport packages Bring in any student ID and receive 10% off your food bill 
join our text club: text tkgfans to 74422 
Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Winter 
continued from page 20 
would get a no-hitter my first year out,” Winter said. “I really had only planned on doing my job when I was needed and doing that to the best of my abilities. I knew that I had the chance to be suc­cessful because I have such a strong team to support me and they helped out a lot today.” 
All season Winter has proved herself a tremendous addition to Notre Dame’s already accom­plished pitching staff. 
“It is rare for a freshman to come in and have such an impact pitching,” senior catcher Lex Clay said. “Most go through a learning curve their freshman year and then are more seasoned for big game pitching, but Laura is hold­ing her own. She has a lot of movement, a lot of pitches, and great composure.” 
Winter’s no-hitter was particu­larly timely against the Bulls (32­17, 12-3 Big East), as Winter and the Irish faced off with another top notch freshman in USF’s Nevins, who owns a 0.31 conference ERA. But Nevins’ impressive record was not a concern for the Irish fresh­man on the opposite mound. 
“I really don't worry about who is out on the mound for the other teams,” Winter said. “I just always strive to be the pitcher that game to come out on top.” 
Though Nevins retired 12 bat­ters in the first four innings of game one, Winter fired back, punching out nine Bulls as 51 of her 77 pitches went for strikes. Thanks to Winter, the only offense the Irish needed to claim the 1-0 victory in the opener was a two-out double by senior Erin Marrone to score freshman pinch runner Monica Torres in the fifth inning. The loss christened Nevins with her first earned run in 46.0 innings, along with her first Big East loss. 
In game two Notre Dame (35-8, 11-1) kicked its offense into gear as Clay got the ball rolling with a quick first inning single. 
“The second game, they started their ace [Nevins] again, and we hit her much better the second game,” Clay said. “We had a lot more hits from a lot of places in the lineup.” 
While sophomore hurler Brittany O’Donnell took a no-hitter into the sixth inning of the second game, the Irish offense found its legs in juniors Dani Miller and Alexa Maldonado and seniors Brianna Jorgensborg, Sadie Pitzenberger and Marrone, all of whom contributed hits in the 5-0 victory. Notre Dame displayed why it owns the best batting average in the Big East at .375 as five differ­ent players accounted for the team’s five runs. The 12-hit effort marks the seventh time Notre Dame has accumulated double-digit hit totals in 11 league games. 
Winter said the team is feeling confident as the post-season draws closer. 
“I have always had confidence that the team would be strong in the post season but like every team, there are nerves that come with it,” Winter said. “The team that can take those nerves and turn them into a positive when the time comes will always prevail.” 
The Irish now return to South Bend for a six-game home stand that kicks off Friday against St. John’s. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
NHL 

Lightning beat Penguins 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH — Dwayne Roloson made 36 saves for his second NHL playoff shutout, Sean Bergenheim scored, and the Tampa Bay Lightning com­pleted a big series comeback and eliminated the Pittsburgh Penguins with a 1-0 win in Game 7 on Wednesday night. 
Roloson became the second goalie to go 6-0 in elimination games. He allowed only four goals in winning the final three games as Tampa Bay erased a 3­1 series deficit. That matched his feat in 2003 when he led the Minnesota Wild to a comeback against the Vancouver Canucks in the second round. 
The No. 5 seed Lightning will now face the top-seeded Washington Capitals in the Eastern Conference semifinals. 
The Penguins lost their second consecutive Game 7 and fell to 2­6 in such deciding games at home. 
Bergenheim’s goal 5:41 into the second period was his third in the final four games of the series. Tampa Bay hadn’t advanced in the playoffs since winning the Stanley Cup in 2004. 
Despite a 36-23 edge in shots, the Sidney Crosby-less Penguins lost three consecutive games for the first time since Dec. 27, 2009-Jan. 3, 2010 — a span of 141 games. 
Playing their first Game 7 on the road, the Lightning were the first this year to win a series after trailing 3-1. Tampa Bay is 3-0 in Game 7s. 
The Lightning killed a slashing penalty given to Nate Thompson with 1:33 left that gave the Penguins a 6-on-4 skating advantage after goalie Marc-Andre Fleury was pulled. 
That was the fifth unsuccessful power play of the game for Pittsburgh, which was 1-for-35 for the series and had no power-play goals in 25 chances at home. 

After the Penguins took 17 of the first 24 shots, Bergenheim scored on a familiar play set up by a blind backhand pass by Dominic Moore. Moore skated behind the net toward the left-wing side and got the puck to Bergenheim, who was standing alone below the right circle. 
Fleury hadn’t even turned his head back toward Bergenheim’s side of the ice as the puck was heading into the net. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 28, 2011 
Bayliss 
continued from page 20 
depth in its lineup this season, as some of its key starters, including junior Sam Keeton, are injured. 
The Kansas City native has been out of the lineup for most of this season after having a big impact last year. 
“Sam Keeton has a chance to be really good next year,” Bayliss said. “He needs to embrace the concept of holding serve-develop­ing patterns to go with varying serving targets. His convincing straight-set win over Louisville's Alejandro Calligari came after a six-week layoff and was remark­able.” 
With the plethora of injuries suffered by his squad this season, Bayliss has narrowed his roster down to eight players and has started a total of nine off-and-on throughout the year. It is possible that Notre Dame will have one roster for this weekend, and a different one in two weeks when they head to the NCAAs. 
Boasting a talented group of seniors and a strong core return­ing from last year’s squad, the Irish are poised to make a deep run in both competitions. Bayliss said a number of his players are playing good tennis. 
“[Senior] Dan Stahl has become a very good upper-lineup player,” Bayliss said. “[Senior] 
Shawel 
continued from page 20 
his leg on the relay,” Rae said. 
This pair of meets marks the last tune-up for the Irish before the Big East championships May 6. With the upcoming meet in the back of their minds, the focus is still on doing well this weekend. 
“We placed a close second in 

Firm 
continued from page 20 
continued to hustle, coming up just short in The Firm’s 21-15 victory. 
The Firm opened the game with a 10-2 run, as sophomore Will Reising and junior Mike Renner led the team with solid defense and sophomore Gary Hunt directed the team’s fast-paced offense. 
It was Charlie Keller’s duo of assistant rector Ryan Raybould and staff member Lenny DeLorenzo who shut down The Firm’s offense late in the sec­ond half, igniting a 5-1 run to close out the half down 11-7. 
One particular fan in atten­dance, Irish basketball coach Mike Brey, described the matchup as “intense.” He said he knew all along that Charlie Keller was bringing resilient competition to the court because he stumbled upon captain Fr. Pete McCormick, Keough’s rector and chaplain to the Irish basketball team, earlier in the day. 
Stephen Havens demonstrated claimed the Big East title 14 

“I saw his game face, and I real greatness at times and times in 22 seasons. Notre Dame 
was afraid to talk to him,” became a much tougher com-will open the Big East tourna-
Brey said. petitor. [Senior] Tyler Davis gave ment against Georgetown at 9 
us solid contributions in singles a.m. Friday. and doubles as well as being a two-time captain.” Contact Kate Grabarek at 
Under Bayliss, the Irish have kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
Frilling 
continued from page 20 
the mile relay last year, so going Atang, who took third place at back and getting the win this the Long Beach State 

pete and giving every match year is really important for us,” Invitational and junior Maddie 
their all,” Frilling Rae said. Buttinger, who took first place 
said. For the women, sophomore in the heptathlon at the Polytan 
The Irish are espe-
Sophomore Matt Huber’s frustration showed in the mid­dle of the second half, when The Firm struggled to make a shot. McCormick led Charlie Keller offensively, and staff member Tim Novak added sev­eral fast-break points, hustling past The Firm’s defense and bringing the score within two, 17-15. 
“It’s fun to come out and play. As a team, it’s fun to come out and see how far you can go in the tournament,” McCormick said. “Those guys have a great team — great shooters, great inside game, and they play well together.” 
Charlie Keller’s rally was sti­fled by The Firm’s endurance and speed. Down 20-15, Charlie Keller senior Jim Maslar suffered an ankle injury, deflating all hope of a miraculous comeback. 
“We manned up, and we played a really firm game,” The Firm sophomore Steve Conway said. “We played [Charlie Keller] last year, and this year they came back and battled, and it was a really good game.” 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
improved throughout the sea­son. The Irish rebounded from a sub-par March in which they went 2-4 by reeling off four wins in their last five matches. The run culminated in back-to-back 6-1 victories over Marquette and DePaul. 

cially eager to poten-“Winning the Big Frilling cites 
Rebecca Tracy has proven her-Invitational Saturday. 
tially face USF, who 
self as a standout performer, The Irish begin competition at 

East would be very teamwork as a 
taking second place in both the the Drake Relays Thursday and 

defeated Notre large factor in 
important for us.” 
1,500-meter and 800-meter at at the Gina Relays Friday. Both 

Dame 5-2 in her team’s suc-
February. cess. 
the Mt. SAC Relays and Long events will continue through 

“I think we're all Kristy Frilling “I think our 
Beach State Invitational two Saturday. 

excited to get some team has great 
weeks ago. Additionally, the 

junior captain 
revenge, and getting ances from senior thrower Rudy mfnnera@nd.edu 
women need strong perform-Contact Megan Finneran at 
it in the conference tournament will make it much more rewarding,” Frilling said. 


Frilling thinks her team has an excellent chance in both tourna­
ments. 
“Winning the Big East would be very important for us,” Frilling said. “It will give us an automatic bid into the NCAA tournament and it especially will give us confidence leading into the NCAA tournament.” 
The team has consistently chemistry and 
we all care 
about how we do and about each other,” Frilling said. “Little things like that really help, even when you don't think it matters.” 
The tournament will begin Friday at 9 a.m. when the Irish take on Georgetown at the Courtney Tennis Center. Matches continue Saturday and the Big East champion will be crowned 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 28, 2011 The Observer u TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDV LLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, April 28, 2011 page 20 
ND SOFTBALL 
No-hitter frst by Irish freshman in 10 years 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
In a matchup of freshman pitch­ing standouts between Notre Dame’s Laura Winter and South Florida’s Sara Nevins, it was Winter who stole the show with a masterful performance on the mound. Winter threw a no-hitter against the conference-leading Bulls to spark the Irish to a sweep of a doubleheader in Tampa by scores of 1-0 and 5-0. 
Winter’s achievement comes at the end of a stellar debut season for the right-handed hurler from San Diego. Named Big East Pitcher of the Week two weeks ago, the freshman lengthened her list of accomplishments yesterday by becoming the first Irish fresh­man to throw a no-hitter since Kristin Schmidt in 2001. The last Irish player to accomplish the feat was senior Jody Valdivia in 2010. 
“I had never thought that I 
see WINTER/page 17 
Harsh Winter 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Irish freshman pitcher Laura Winter delivers a pitch during Notre Dame’s 8-0 win over Loyola Apr. 13. Winter threw the frst no-hitter by an Irish freshman in 10 years in a 1-0 win over South Florida. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
ND aims for fourth straighttitle 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
With the momentum of four wins in five matches on its side, No. 24 Notre Dame will begin play in the Big East champi­onships Friday, attempting to win its fourth straight confer­ence title. 
“We're finally getting into the last stretch of the year leading up to NCAAs,” junior captain Kristy Frilling said. “Now is the time for us to step it up.” 
The Irish will have the home court advantage in the tourna­ment. A win would give them a boost of confidence for the upcoming NCAA tournament, where the Irish have high hopes this year. 
“As we get closer to NCAAs we want everyone to be playing their best, being excited to com-
see FRILLING/page 18 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Size helps Texas Roadhouse defeat Old School to advance 
in the post against Texas to pull away, as Old School was said. “Given we’re double their Pat Derksen said. “We’re pret-By MEGAN GOLDEN Roadhouse junior Taylor almost always within two or age, I think it’s pretty impres-ty confident going in, and we Sports Writer Williams. Texas Roadhouse three points. Offensively, Old sive what we’ve done. We just try and work the ball 
junior point guard JT Breveard School continued to fight back know athletic-wise, we’re not around, get good shots, box 
Texas Roadhouse used expe-ran up and down the court with the help of staff members going to match up with these out, grab the rebound and just rience and height to tower tirelessly during the entire Joel Dosmann, Matthew guys.” run — run those guys off the over Old School, as athleticism game, adding energy at the Blazejewski and Mark Bennett. Texas Roadhouse senior court.” proved victorious over Old point guard position. Texas Roadhouse took an 11-8 Adam Dobrzykowski’s height School’s older but well-condi-“It’s a tough matchup for us lead into halftime. on defense ultimately served No. 8 The Firm 21-No. 9 tioned squad in a 21-16 Texas because they had both height Old School’s average age of as the difference in the game, Charlie Keller 15 Roadhouse win. and a quick guard out there,” 34 presented a challenge however, as he held an advan-The match-up between ath-
Staff member Matt Old School coach Todd Hill against a college-aged Texas tage against all of Old School’s letes and sharpshooters origi-McCubbins and graduate stu-said. “They started draining Roadhouse team. guards. nally appeared to be a lop-dent Luke Chicoine kept Old outside jumpers there, and we “We had a comeback, but I “Going into these games, we sided affair, but Charlie Keller School in the game all night had a letdown.” think it was a little bit too late expect to win as the fifth long, playing scrappy defense Texas Roadhouse struggled there; we couldn’t finish,” Hill seed,” Roadhouse freshman see FIRM/page 18 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish host Big East tourney 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 28 Irish will host the Big East tournament beginning Friday at the Eck Tennis Center with one goal in mind: to rebound from last season’s Big East title-match loss to Louisville. 
“Obviously our hope is to win the championship, but we can't get too caught up in anything now except for Georgetown, our first opponent,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “If we advance, we know that [South Florida] can be very good, as they beat a strong Florida State team this year and split matches with us last year.” 
The Irish fell in the finals of last year’s tournament, also held in South Bend, to Louisville. 
Notre Dame has relied on the 
see BAYLISS/page 18 


ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Team travels to Iowa, Michigan for meets 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

After a break from competi­tion over the long Easter week­end, the Irish will return to action traveling to two separate meets Thursday and Friday. The squad will divide as some athletes head to Des Moines, Iowa for the Drake Relays while others go to Hillsdale, Mich. for the Gina Relays. 
The majority of the team will compete at the Gina Relays. The Drake Relays will feature 12 Irish runners, a pole-vaulter and a thrower. 
The Irish continue to look for leadership from a few key members who have distin­guished themselves during the season. 
On the track, the men seek direction from the indoor sea­son’s four all-Americans, who will compete in relays at Drake. Graduate student Jack Howard will anchor the 4x800-meter race, freshman Patrick Feeney will anchor the 4x400-meter, junior Johnathan Shawel and sophomore Jeremy Rae will join together in the 4x1600­meter. 
“Shawel has been having great workouts for the past couple weeks, and set a per­sonal best out in California two weekends ago, so we’re really looking for him to run well on 
see SHAWEL/page 18 






