the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students aidyouthin Honduras 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Two groups of Saint Mary’s students traveled to Honduras over spring break to serve impoverished locals at a group home and orphan­age surgery center. 
Education Professor Karen Van Meter and social work Professor Leonard Sanchez took a group of eight stu­dents to El Hogar Diamante, a home for boys offering safe housing, education and train­ing in a trade. 
While most of the boys are not homeless or orphaned, the home helps divert them from getting into dangerous situations they may other­wise be exposed to, Sanchez said. 
“The Hogar takes on boys from around 12, even as young as seven, that have parents and homes of their own, but it gets them off the streets,” Sanchez said. “Many of them [would other­wise] find themselves living in the streets, bored, rest­less, panhandling.” 
The students spent their mornings in Honduras doing service projects including painting rooms and cleaning in the Hogar, before spending the afternoon doing recre­ational activities with the boys. Evenings offered stu­dents time to come together 
see HONDURAS/page 7 



Students journey to Holy Land 
20 Notre Dame students travel to Israel to explore their faith origins 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

A group of 23 Notre Dame community mem ­bers made a pilgrimage to Israel to explore biblical locations and examine their own faiths over spring break. 
The group of students, coming from diverse faith and academic back ­grounds, were led by Lewis Hall rector Layla Karst, Campus Ministry program manager Brett Perkins and theology graduate student Hannah Hemphill. 
Karst said the pilgrim­age allowed students to explore the origins of their faith through the connections the University has in Israel, especially Pantur, Notre Dame ’s campus in the Holy Land. 
“It was an effort, given Notre Dame’s resources in the area, to take advan ­tage of them and give our students the opportunity to travel to the places where Christ lived and died to reflect on the mys­teries of our faith togeth­er in a community and to particularly have that journey be during Lent,” Karst said. 
Students visited Jerusalem’s Church of the Holy Sepulchre where Jesus was crucified and entombed, the site of the nativity in Bethlehem and the Mount of the Transfiguration. The group also saw the Sea of Galilee, the Jordan River and the Dead Sea along with the cities of Capernaum and Nazareth. 

For sophomore theology and Arabic studies major Jackie Bacon, visiting the Sea of Galilee was a high­light of the trip. 
“I’ve never been to a more beautiful place, ” Bacon said. 
Sophomore economics and Program of Liberal Studies major Pablo Muldoon said he enjoyed seeing the Mount of Beatitudes where Jesus gave the Sermon on the Mount. 
“It was incredibly green and there were flowers 
see ISRAEL/page 7 




Aerospace chair dies at age 50 
Observer Staff Report 
John E. Renaud, professor and chair of aerospace and mechanical engineering at Notre Dame, died March 18 
from can ­
cer at his 
Michigan 
home. He 
was 50 
years old. 
A Mass 
of remem­
brance will 
be cele ­
brated at 
9:30 a.m. 
Friday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. A reception will be held at the Morris Inn fol­lowing the service. 
Renaud was a native of Rochester, N.Y. After he graduated from the University of Maine at Orono in 1982, Renaud worked for five years as a manufactur­ing systems design engineer in Rochester. He earned master ’s and doctoral degrees in mechanical engi­neering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1989 and 1992, respectively, before he joined the aero­space and mechanical engi­neering faculty at Notre Dame in 1992. He began serving as the chair of the department in 2008. 
As a professor, Renaud 

see PROFESSOR/page 6 


Students celebrate postponed St. Patrick’s Day 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
St. Patrick’s Day may have fallen during Notre Dame’s spring break this year, but students still managed to show their Irish spirit in celebration of the holiday Wednesday. 
On the “unofficial” St. Patrick’s Day, students embraced the opportunity to celebrate the University’s his­toric Irish identity by dressing in green, celebrating off cam­pus and taking advantage of the giveaways provided by the Student Union Board (SUB) and Walsh Hall throughout the day. 
SUB and Walsh distributed shamrock-shaped sunglasses and other giveaways outside DeBartolo Hall and offered a free cookout on Fieldhouse Mall, SUB cultural arts pro­grammer Jenna Donahue said. Students who found “golden nuggets” hidden around cam­pus won prizes including a green iPod Shuffle and gift cards to Chipotle, Five Guys and Jamba Juice. 
Donahue said the main goal of planning events for this week was to unite students in a celebration of the holiday while they were on campus. 
“We came up with this idea in the fall when we realized we wouldn’t be able to cele­brate St. Patrick’s Day during school, so we wanted to do it right when we came back from break,” Donahue said. “Wednesday seemed like a good day for it because it breaks up the week, and more people are out and about because classes are generally shorter.” 
Sophomore Erinn Riley said she enjoyed the campus festiv­ities. 
“The free giveaways were awesome, especially the sun­glasses and the food,” she 
see ST. PAT’S/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Faculty challenge Indiana Chamber report page 3  Asian film festival preview page 12  Football page 24  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, March 24, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD SWAP LIVES WITH ANYONE FOR A DAY, WHO WOULD IT BE?

THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITOR: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 


ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
John Cameron Allan Joseph Caitlin Housley Michael Todisco Christian Myers Joseph Monardo 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Tom La Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 

Dog found alive in remnants of burnt down apartment 
BOSTON — A Boston woman who thought her beloved dachshund was gone forever after a fire destroyed her apartment a month ago found the pet Monday living in the wreckage of her burned-out home. 
Terisa Acevedo moved in with relatives after the Feb. 23 fire. She returned to the apartment Monday when her landlord asked her to turn off the alarm on a vehicle in the drive­way. 
The 24-year-old Acevedo heard scratching, pulled away the plywood cover­ing the doorway and found the year-old pup, Lola. 
Thomas Graff  Claudia Anewalt  Michael Turner  Anel Terron  Ian Heraty  
freshman  grad  junior  sophomore  senior  
Dillon  off campus  Knott  Welsh Family  Alumni  

“Charlie Sheen,  “My cat. When I  “Brian Kelly,  “Kate  “I like my life a  
so I could be bi- grow up I want  because he’s got  Middleton.”  lot, but I would  
winning.”  to be just like  the dream job.”  be George  
her — lazy and  Harrison with  
spoiled.”  the Beatles in  
India during  

the late 60’s.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

She said Lola jumped into her arms and set off a flood of tears. She says the dog was a little skinnier than she remembered. 
Veterinarians at Boston's Angell Animal Medical Center said the dog some­how found food and water in the home. They say it is expected to fully recover. 
Lola was diagnosed with "refeeding syndrome," a condition that requires a careful reintroduction of food to prevent life-threat­ening complications in malnourished patients. Veterinarians gave Lola her first meal Wednesday. 
Condom machine stolen from closed sports bar 
BELLINGHAM, Wash. — A condom machine has been stolen from a shut­tered Washington state sports bar, where fixtures are being auctioned off. 
Police spokesman Mark Young also says an ATM machine was damaged in the break -in early Tuesday at the old Quarterback Pub. It's been closed for more than a year. 
The Bellingham Herald reports an auction com­pany employee discov ­ered the burglary. 
It 's unknown if any condoms were left in the machine when it was stolen. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Today from 3 to 6 p. m. there is an opportunity to donate cash or Domer Dollars to the Women’s Care Center. Donations can be made in La Fortune. All proceeds will go toward buying baby shower gifts for women who are clients of the Women’s Care Center. 
The institute for Latino Studies is hosting a lecture titled “A Chicanese in the Land of Dixie” given by Richard A. Lou, professor and chair of the Department of Art at the University of Memphis. The lecture will be held from 
4:30 to 6 p.m. today at McKenna Hall in room 210­214. 
Tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. in Washington Hall the Student Players’ first production of the musical “Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog” will take place. Tickets will be sold for $5 at the door. 
A panel discussion titled “Revolution 101: A Discussion on Civil Resistance in the Middle East” will be held from 9 to 11 p.m. tonight at the Coleman-Morse Center. The discussion will be a concise review of the turmoil affecting Libya, Egypt, Tunisia and other countries in the Middle East. 
The MSA Relay for Life bowling night will be held at Chippewa Bowl in South Bend, 224 W. Chippewa Avenue, from 9:30 to 11:30 p.m. The $10 price donates $5 to Relay for Life and pays for 2 hours of bowling, shoes and one pizza per lane. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday SUNday monday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


38 21 HIGH 3836 3740
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


27 16 LOW 2316 1923 






Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Faculty challenge Chamber report 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
After Indiana leaders pro­posed right-to-work legislation for the state in December, Notre Dame faculty added their voices to the debate that has raged since the beginning of the year. 
While state legislators dis­missed the bill, delaying a decision until the next legisla­tive session, protest continues throughout the state. Many Indiana residents have headed to Indianapolis to join protests, such as a demonstration on March 10, against right-to­work legislation. 
In January, the Indiana Chamber of Commerce issued a report touting the ben-


“These proposals 
efits of right-to-should instead work laws. undermine living aim to increase Notre Dame wages in a dif­
standards and public
Professor Marty ferent way, the
education, and our 
Wolfson and his report stated. colleagues chal-community needs to Catholi c lenged the Social
know about it.” 
Ch amber’s Teaching on report with a labor and response March Marty Wolfson workers’ rights 
3. economics professor also draws 
Wolfson said his largest cri­tique of right-to-work legisla­tion is its disservice to workers themselves. He called the bill “contradictory” to its promises. 
Right-to-work policies claim to help workers but actually decrease wages, and the Chamber provided no clear evidence that the legislation will lead to increased wages, he said. 
The Higgins Labor Studies Program at Notre Dame released a report on the issue. 
“The idea that residents of Indiana would be better off if workers in Indiana received lower wages is seemingly so contradictory that it is surpris­ing that it is even taken seri­
ously,” the 
Higgins report 
stated. 
State leaders 
A right-to­work policy leg­islates that employees are not required to join a union or pay fair share agreements for unions. With fewer members, a union oper­ates with less power, and workers wages decrease, Wolfson said. 
The Chamber argued right­to-work legislation could attract employers and compa­nies to an area where unions are less influential. The Chamber claimed workers would benefit from greater demand for labor. 
Notre Dame 
into the debate 

about the right-to-work bill, Wolfson said. 
“These proposals undermine living standards and public education, and our community needs to know about it,” he said. 
Wolfson said large tax cuts to the wealthy and promises of trickle-down benefits to the poor have not succeeded in the past, and right-to-work legisla­tion is unlikely to see another result. 
“Experiences of the past 30 years contradicts this [argu­ment],” Wolfson said. 

Wolfson wrote the Higgins Report in March with the help of Dan Graff, associate director of the Higgins Program, and English Professor Valerie Sayers. The report specifically criticizes the Chamber’s data analysis. 
The data in the Chamber’s report only analyzed figures from 1977 and 2008, Wolfson said. The report also combined the information from all 22 states with right-to-work poli­cies into one statistic, used an average national income and focused solely on differences in income growth rates between states with and without the legislation. Instead, Wolfson said, the report should have compared individual state’s growth rates before and after the legislation was passed. 
In response, Wolfson and his contributors compiled their own data from each successive year from the beginning of right-to-work legislation in1947 through 2009. 
“If you take the Right to Work states as a whole, but look at the average rate of growth, you’ll see that after the states became Right to Work states, growth was 3.9 percent compared to 4.2 per­cent before the state became a Right to Work state,” Wolfson said. “Growth declined.” 
Wolfson said the Chamber’s data is not incorrect, only slanted. 
“The numbers aren’t wrong, but [the Chamber] use[s] data selectively … The result is slanted for the result they want,” Wolfson said. “We want to balance it.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 




Summer Session registration opens 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Students hoping to make up for a dropped class or pursue a subject of interest outside their major can register for Notre Dame’s Summer Session begin­ning Wednesday. 
The University will be offering 177 traditional lecture or lab courses, as well as various spe­cial study and directed reading programs, said Chuck Hurley, director of the Summer Session. Hurley said summer courses outside of general requirements vary somewhat year to year at the discretion of the different academic departments. 
“We offer almost the same amount every year, it’s a pretty standard allotment,” he said. “We go through a process in September and October where the departments and deans come up with the classes. Most of the classes are the same every year — Calc I, Calc II, that sort of thing.” 
Hurley said some of the Arts and Letters departments tend to offer greater course variety between the years. 
“In the areas of history and sociology they’re pretty creative. For example, this year in history Scott Appleby is teaching a new class, ‘Catholics in 20th Century America,’” he said. “James Smith has a class, ‘Northern Ireland Troubles.’ There’s also a class in sociology that I know was offered two years ago, “The Sociology of Sport.’ That’s a pop­ular class.” 
Many of the students studying at Notre Dame over the summer take classes in theology, Hurley said. 
“A lot of that has to do with us offering more theology courses than any other in summer, part­ly because they’re so popular, partly because there’s a gradu­ate program over the summer,” he said. “Because Notre Dame is the most prestigious Catholic university in America, a lot of visiting students want to come here to take theology courses.” 
Unlike classes during the reg­ular school year, summer school courses are more flexible in accommodating a greater num­ber of interested students, Hurley said. 
“We have a few classes that fill up in the summer but it’s usually only 10 to 15 that get blocked out. The competition [for seats] isn’t as great in the summer,” he said. “We end up with well over 2,200 students in the summer — that’s a lot but it’s a far cry from the 11,500 we have during the year. We have more rooms we can move a class to if it fills up.” 
Of these 2,200 summer enrollees, many are students visiting from other universities, Hurley said. 
“One thing that would surprise people is that close to 1000 of them are visiting students,” he said. “Maybe they wanted to go to Notre Dame but chose some­where else...others come for research, they might have a spe­cific biology professor they want to come and do research with, so they come here.” 
Hurley said some students from other colleges attend sum­mer courses at the University out of convenience. 
“A number of students who live in South Bend or Mishawaka who go to a wide variety of schools, Purdue, Indiana, Michigan State, or oth­ers in the area take classes here,” he said. “They know if they take classes at Notre Dame, they’ll transfer back to their home institution.” 
Hurley said Notre Dame stu­dents often take courses in the summer to concentrate on a particularly demanding subject. 
“We see some students who want to take a specific course in the summer — maybe it’s a very challenging course in their major and they think if they take it with four other classes it will be challenging but if they con­centrate on it in the summer they’ll be able to do their best,” he said. “Others want to make up a class after they were ill or were struggling with it and dropped.” 
Still other students, Hurley said, choose to attend summer school in order to stay close to the campus and their friends. 
“Others just want to be here for the very nature of this place, the special and sacred nature of it,” he said. “Summer is a very different time on campus. It’s quiet and more serene, but at the same time it’s a lot of fun. I lived here the summer of ‘92 with my buddies from Zahm Hall, and it was just a lot of fun to hang out with my friends for a summer.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 24, 2011 



!"#$%&&'(#$)&$*+,#-.-/,0/1#$2,3'44')+4$'4$$ 
!"#$%&'&!($)"*'$(*&+,-$ 
5%6$!78$9*::86$2;<$;8=!$9>7%%?$@826$ 

.//012341567$38310390:$56016:$34$ 
;44/<==3>?1771567@6>@:>A=45ABCA1>:$$$ $ DA:741567E$$F564324$G3AB::6$F03BH$I?203BHJK6>@:>AL$5B$$ -4:/;361:$!CAM:6$I76CAM:6NK6>@:>AL$$ 
Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
SMC professor encourages preschool art exposure 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
News Writer 
Exposing young children to art is about more than having some­thing to hang on the fridge, Saint Mary’s art professor Kelly Harrington said. 
Harrington was recently inter­viewed in the March issue of “Arts Everywhere” magazine article “Early StARTS: Preschoolers reap benefits from early exposure to the Arts.” 
In the article, Harrington, an adjunct lecturer and licensed K­12 art specialist, discusses the role of early exposure to art in overall brain development, calling it “absolutely vital” to holistic edu­cation. 
Harrington says preschool-aged children appreciate art despite their limited ability to clearly articulate their thoughts about it. 
“[Young children] enjoy looking at works of art, but discussion should be kept to simple ques­tions like ‘What do you see?’ and ‘Can you find something red?’” she said. “[These questions] can engage young children and stimu­late higher order thinking skills which can, in turn, lead to cre­ative problem-solving.” 
While Harrington has not done research specifically on the sub­ject of early art education, she speaks from personal experience working with this age group while developing art classes for Saint Mary’s. 
“In general, preschoolers are at what is called the manipulative stage, the first of three stages of graphic representation that most children progress through,” she said. “They are mostly interested in mark-making and experiencing various tactile qualities be it clay, paint, et cetera.” 
Harrington said young students should be encouraged to create 
art because it allows them a 
unique opportunity  for  free  
expression,  
“Children  at  this  age  are  

attracted to art-making because it is something they can control in their environment,” she said. “Children at this age should have exposure to and exploration of various media without focus on a predetermined solution.” 
Harrington said many of her students at Saint Mary’s intend on teaching art. She says this work is important because of the greater impact art education has on child­hood development and long-term success. 
“The more preschool students are allowed to explore and make marks, the greater their visual vocabulary becomes, an increas­ingly important skill in our 21st century visual culture.” 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 



Group amends student governmentconstitution 
ties about exactly how much 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
we’ll receive from FMB, we’ll 
News Writer 
know at the beginning of 
spring semester how much 
Student Senate passed two we’ll receive,” Baranay said. amendments to the student Biro said because the CCC government constitution at is requesting greater total its meeting Wednesday. The funding from the board, the first revised the method of increase in the hard line for fund allocation, and the sec-clubs and organizations will 
ond codified the First not detract from other Undergraduate Experience in groups’ shares of the budget. Leadership (FUEL) organiza-Biro said due to the amount tion in the Constitution. of money distributed in the 
Student Union treasurer additional allocation, the Eric Biro presented the fund percentage change is essen­allocation resolution to the tially making official what senate and explained how it has already been in practice. would affect the existing “By going through with this budgeting process. change, we’re eliminating 
Clubs and organizations one cut from the CCC and receive a fixed 33 percent of they have the set number total revenue given to the right away,” he said. Club Coordination Council The second amendment 
(CCC) from the Financial approved by Senate officially Management adds FUEL, an Board (FMB). organization 
Halfway “With this new for freshmen through the interested in 
amendment, instead of 
year, the policy-making clubs have the having uncertainties in student opportunity to about exactly how much government, request more to the consti­
we’ll receive from FMB, 
funds from tution. 
we’ll know at the
the remainder F U E L 
of the CCC beginning of spring Director Ricky budget, Biro Bevington
semester how much
said. said the first 
we’ll receive.” 
The amend-half of the ment would year focuses increase this Paul Baranay on educating hard line per-the freshmen 
junior
centage from in how stu ­33 to 36 while dent govern ­eliminating a club’s ability to ment works. Some of the appeal for more funds later, exercises include reviewing he said. the constitution and learning 
Junior Paul Baranay, con-what the various student troller of the CCC, said the leaders on campus are amendment is mostly aimed responsible for. at simplifying the lengthy Following the training allocation process. process, FUEL members can 
Currently, clubs submit choose senate committees to their budget requests for the begin working with. next year to the council. “We’re trying to make this After making necessary cuts, opportunity real,” Bevington the CCC decides on an overall said. “These FUEL-ers are a request to the board, which part of student government. then also makes its own cuts, They put a lot of time in it. requiring the council to once They care about student gov-again decrease the amount of ernment as much as most of money allocated to each club, you.” Baranay said. 
“With this new amendment, Contact Mel Flanagan at instead of having uncertain-mfanag3@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 24, 2011 
electricity in the air last year, so I wanted everyone to 
St. Pat’s 

be able to feel that again this continued from page 1 year.” Pinchock began spreading said. the word in January to about Incidentally, the date of SUB 500 of his Notre Dame friends and Walsh’s planned activities through the coincided with an unofficial Facebook event. 
thing really special.” 
Senior Erica Severson embraced the chance to cele­brate the holiday while at school. 
“I celebrated by wearing 
green, eating a free brat and drinking green beer,” she said. 

celebration that attracted over The event drew “I celebrated by “It was a lot of 4,500 student attendees on over 2,000 con-fun.” 
wearing green, eating 
Facebook. firmed atten -In anticipa-Senior George Pinchock cre-dees within a a free brat and tion of the ated the popular online event day of its cre-drinking green beer.” “unofficial” hol­advertising a campus-wide St. ation, he said. iday, a group of Patrick’s Day celebration after By the end of Saint Mary’s 
Erica Severson 
returning from winter break the week, 3,000 and Notre in January. people planned senior Dame students 
“St. Patrick’s Day has always to attend the been a big deal in my family event. Pinchock and in my hometown of limited the event to current Philadelphia,” Pinchock said. Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and 
“I got the idea to have every­
one celebrate on a class day when I thought about last year’s celebra­tion and how I didn’t want to miss out on the fun because of spring break this year.” 
Pinchock said celebrating St. Patrick’s Day on a day of classes added an ele ­ment of thrill to the general Holy Cross stu­dents after 

“I got the idea to 
thousands of have everyone alumni and non-Notre
celebrate on a class 
Dame students 

day when I thought 
responded to about last year’s the event invita­
celebration and how I 
tion. Although

didn’t want to miss 
Pinchock did out on the fun not plan specific because of spring events for the day of the cele­
break this year.” 
bration, he said creating the George Pinchock Facebook event senior exposed him to a variety of dif­ferent concep-
Professor 
continued from page 1 
taught undergraduate and graduate courses on design 
optimization and pursued research on fundamental design issues for aircraft, crash-absorbent structures and human bone tissue, as well as on the general math­ematics associated with determining optimal designs. 
As an internationally rec­ognized expert in his disci­pline, Renaud was an associ­ate fellow of the American contacted the 
owners of Mulligan’s Bar and Grill in South Bend about the possibil­ity of hosting a St. Patrick’s­themed event. 
“A few students approached us about a month ago and asked if we would host a St. Patrick’s Day party for them after spring break, ” owner Sue Mulligan said. “We love Notre Dame and its students, so after they asked us, we said, ‘Sure, why not?’” 
Mulligan said the celebra­tion was similar to the bar’s actual St. Patrick’s Day event and featured a large outdoor tent, decorations, green beer, green Jello shots and give­aways. The kitchen was also open for attendees until 2:30 a.m., Mulligan said. 
“It was a blast, just like last week ’s celebration, ” Mulligan said. “Everyone had a great time.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group concludes term-end initiatives 
“We said it was going to be a
By MEGAN LONEY 
trial run of sorts, and we will 
News Writer 
post a list of rules with it,” she said. “If printers are going to The Student Government be installed in all of the dorms Association announced that in the future, a relationship progress was made in its dorm with and support from the IT printer initiative and discussed department would be neces­the final stages of the LeMans sary. All we can do is work to Hall renovation Wednesday. keep the technology issue an 
“The printer has been pur-ongoing priority.” chased and will be arriving in In an effort to prevent abuse the next week or so,” student of the printer, there will be 
body president senior Rachael Chesley said. 
The printer will be installed in Holy Cross Hall’s lobby near the exist­ing computer station, and will be avail­able for stu­dent use for the remainder of the semester. 
“We’ve accomplished a lot in these past couple months, and now we’re waiting on seeing the results of our hard work.” 
Rachael Chesley student body president 
At a previous meeting, mem­bers voiced concerns regard­ing limits on individuals’ use of the printer. Chesley spoke with sales representatives from several printing compa­nies to gather more informa­tion about limiting time and pages printed during a single session. 
Chesley said the sales repre­sentatives indicated such con­trols would have to be imple­mented by the campus Information Technology (IT) department. As the IT depart­ment is not supporting the ini­tiative, the controls are not yet available. 
signs posted stating a pro­posed time limit for indi­vidual student use. The desk worker’s duties will now includi ng supervising printer usage. 
The other major project wrapping up in the final weeks of the current 
administration, the LeMans Hall basement renovation, is well underway. Chesley said the walls have been painted and furniture and entertain­ment technology have been ordered. 
“We’ve accomplished a lot in these past couple months, and now we’re waiting on seeing the results of our hard work,” Chesley said. “I can’t believe how fast this year is winding up. These initiatives are going to be a great way to end the year.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
enthusiasm for the holiday due to Notre Dame’s tradition­al Irish pride. 
“Everyone here is naturally united around Irish things, so people get pumped up about this holiday,” Pinchock said. “You could feel the tions of what St. Patrick’s Day means. 
“A lot of people haven’t been brought up celebrating St. Patrick’s Day like I have,” Pinchock said. “For some peo­ple, it’s just a drinking holi­day, but for others, it’s some-
Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
During his career, Renaud served on the editorial advi­sory boards of Engineering Optimization and the Journal of Aircraft. He was also the associate editor of the Journal of Mechanical Design. He wrote and co ­authored more than 65 arti­cles in leading journals in his field and held two U.S. patents. 
Renaud is survived by his wife, sister, his nieces and nephew, his brother and his mother. In lieu of flowers, the family requests dona ­tions be sent either to Pets Connect in South Bend, the Humane Society of St. Joseph County or the American Cancer Society. 



Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Honduras 
continued from page 1 
for reflection and discussion. 
Both Van Meter and Sanchez stressed the impor­tance of forming relationships with the boys. To better understand what the boys come from, the students visit­ed four of the boys’ homes and met their families, accompanied by the Hogar’s social worker. 
Van Meter said the girls the week at the Nuestros Vaqueros Hermanos orphan­age located about two hours north of the Hogar. The stu­dents spent their time assist­ing in surgeries and other medical procedures at the orphanage’s surgery center, built by the family of Trish Daly, a 2010 Saint Mary’s graduate. 
Junior Molly Borg said the work provided invaluable practical experience. 
“It was completely hands on,” Borg said. “I had never 
started an IV 
before and now 

handled the “One of the boys’ I’ve done it. home visits well This [junior 
mothers told us she 
despite the year] is the 
never imagined that
heartbreaking first year we do nature of the she would give up her clinicals and 
families’ living children ... She just the experience 
conditions. was great.” 
couldn’t control her 
“One of the The students boys’ mothers sons.” spent much of told us she their time never imagined working direct-
Karen van Meter
that she would ly with patients 
education professor
give up her chil-before partici­
dren,” Van Meter said. “ She just couldn’t control her sons.” 
The students took pictures throughout the week, includ­ing during the home visits. Sanchez said they would be sending some of the pictures back to the boys and their families. 
“The boys loved taking pic­tures with all the girls’ cam­eras,” Van Meter said. “They just loved taking the picture and then looking at it on the screen. They became very attached to the girls.” 
The other group, made up of six nursing students, spent pating in surgi­
cal consulta ­tions and finally assisting in the actual surgeries. 
“We did 60 surgeries in four days,” Borg said. “We worked where we were needed, but we also got to scrub in on sur­geries we were interested in. 
Borg, who is interested in pediatrics, was able to scrub in on a young girl’s trigger thumb operation. She said the experience gave her insight into how children deal with surgery and how nurses can help them get through it. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
Israel 
continued from page 1 

everywhere, ” Muldoon said. “Just being there, you could visualize Jesus teaching on peace and love. It was incredible.” 
In addition to visiting major biblical sites, the students were exposed to different sects of Christianity by attending services in the Syriac Orthodox, Charismatic Catholic and Armenian Apostolic traditions, Karst said. 
Karst said the students gained a greater insight into the Israeli-Palestinian conflict of the Holy Land by meeting with several peace-builders working in the region, including a professor at the University of Bethlehem and a human rights lawyer. 
organizations … is not at all what you encounter on the day-to-day,” Muldoon said. “The people are very friendly and incredibly welcoming.” 
Karst, having been to Israel twice before, agreed the media exaggerates its reports on the state of the country. 
“The “It was strange to see relate to. events that kids our age with big “The stu ­are reported dents said that 
machine guns, but I 
are the many times on events that did not feel unsafe the trip they are the ever.” were struck by exception or the human ­the dramatic ness of Christ 
Jackie Bacon
events,” and the Karst said. sophomore humanness of 
“ [ H o w e v e r, ] going in you always know that there is the possibility that you might have to change your plans for the day.” 
Bacon said she never felt in danger, but admitted she 

Despite the was unnerved 
“The events that are 
ongoing con-at the sight of 
reported are the
flict in the the young region and events that are the armed mem ­the recent bers of the 
exception or the
uprisings in Israeli guard 
dramatic events.” 
neighboring who monitored countries the area. Egypt and Layla Karst “It was Jordan, strange to see 
rector 
Muldoon kids our age 
Lewis Hall 
said he did not fear for his safety, even while in the volatile West Bank. 
“The conception that you hear from the media that the West Bank is full of extremists and terrorist with big 
machine guns, but I did not feel unsafe ever,” Bacon said. 
Despite the constant threat of security issues, Muldoon said the trip had a profound effect on his and his fellow travelers ’ faiths. 
“Having so much of a steady reflection on who God is and what He did for us impacted all of us, ” Muldoon said. 
Karst said the students developed a greater sense of Christ’s humanity and a side of Christianity they could 
our faith, ” 
Karst said. “They went on the trip expecting to encounter the Jesus of 2000 years ago but instead they encoun­tered more often the Jesus of today.” 
Karst also said that the trip made the story of Jesus real for the students. 
“The places look a lot different 2000 years later than they would have then, and the communities that have been built up around these places proclaim the faith of 2000 years ago but it ’s a very living place, ” Karst said. “You get the sense that Jesus wasn ’t just someone who lived 2000 years ago but that he’s someone who contin­ues to be alive and work­ing in the world today.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 24, 2011 
LIBYA 

Gadhafi armed forces roll back as rebels try to organize 
Associated Press 
BENGHAZI, Libya — NATO ships began patrolling off Libya’s coast Wednesday as airstrikes, missiles and energized rebels forced Moammar Gadhafi’s tanks to roll back from two key west­ern cities, including one that was the hometown of army officers who tried to overthrow him in 1993. 
Libya’s opposition took hap­hazard steps to form a govern­ment in the east, as they and the U.S.-led force protecting them girded for prolonged and costly fighting. Despite disorganization among the rebels — and confu­sion over who would ultimately run the international operation 
— coalition airstrikes and mis­siles seemed to thwart Gadhafi’s efforts to rout his opponents, at least for now. 
Anti-aircraft fire lit up the sky in Tripoli late Wednesday, and explosions could be heard. 
Coalition aircraft hit a fuel depot in Tripoli, a senior govern­ment official told reporters in a late-night news conference. Deputy Foreign Minister Khaled Kaim at first denied reports that Gadhafi’s compound in Tripoli was hit earlier, then bactracked and said he had no information about that. Other targets Wednesday were near Benghazi and Misrata, he said. 
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates acknowledged there is no clear end to the international military enforcement of the no-fly zone over Libya, but President Barack Obama said it “absolute­ly” will not lead to a U.S. land invasion. 
From Ajdabiya in the east to Misrata in the west, the coali­tion’s targets included Libyan troops’ mechanized forces, mobile surface-to-air missile sites and lines of communica­tions that supply “their beans and their bullets,” said Rear Adm. Gerard Hueber, a top U.S. officer in the campaign in Libya. 
He asserted that Gadhafi’s air force has essentially been defeat­ed. He said no Libyan aircraft had attempted to fly over the previous 24 hours. 
“Those aircraft have either been destroyed or rendered inoperable,” Hueber told Pentagon reporters by phone from the U.S. command ship in the Mediterranean Sea. 
A doctor in Misrata said Gadhafi’s tanks fled after the airstrikes, giving a much-needed reprieve to the besieged coastal city, which is inaccessible to human rights monitors or jour­nalists. The airstrikes struck the aviation academy and a vacant lot outside the central hospital, the doctor said. 
“Today, for the first time in a week, the bakeries opened their doors,” the doctor said, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals if Gadhafi’s forces take Libya’s third-largest city, 125 miles (200 kilometers) southeast of Tripoli. 
Neither the rebels nor Gadhafi has mustered the force for an outright victory, raising concerns of a prolonged conflict. 
Gates said no one was ever under any illusion that the assault would last just two or three weeks. He had no answer when asked about a possible stalemate if Gadhafi hunkers down, and the coalition lacks 
U.N. authorization to target him. 
Obama, when asked about an exit strategy during an interview with the Spanish-language net­work Univision, didn’t lay out a vision for ending the internation­al action, but rather said: “The exit strategy will be executed this week in the sense that we will be pulling back from our much more active efforts to shape the environment.” 
The administration wants oth­ers to lead the way soon: Gates said the U.S. could relinquish control as soon as Saturday. Members of the coalition, howev­er, were still divided over the details. 
In a compromise proposal, NATO would be guided by a political committee of foreign ministers from the West and the Arab world. But NATO nations remained deadlocked over the alliance’s possible role in enforc­ing the U.N.-authorized no-fly zone. 
NATO warships, meanwhile, started patrolling Wednesday to enforce the U.N. arms embargo against Libya. Alliance spokes­woman Oana Lungescu said the action was to “cut off the flow of arms and mercenaries,” activity that intelligence reports say is continuing. 
Six vessels were involved the first day, and Canada’s Brig. General Pierre St. Amand said 16 ships have been offered by NATO members. Five are from Turkey, the organization’s sole Muslim member. 
Missiles fired from submarines in the Mediterranean, bombs dropped by B-2 stealth bombers and an array of airstrikes easily totaled hundreds of millions of dollars by the fifth day of the coalition campaign. 
Hueber said international forces were attacking govern­ment troops that have been storming population centers. On Wednesday evening, 
Libyan state television report­ed a “Crusader colonialist bomb­ing targeting certain civil and military locations” in Tripoli’s Tajoura district — scene of some of the heaviest past protests against Gadhafi. 
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Gadhafi can end the crisis quickly — by leaving power. She said the U.S. wants the Libyan government to “make the right decision” by instituting a cease-fire, with­drawing forces from cities and preparing for a transition that doesn’t include the longtime dic­tator. 
Some attacks by pro-Gadhafi forces continued in Misrata, where the doctor and rebel lead­ers said pro-Gadhafi snipers were firing on civilians from rooftops. Abdel-Hafidh Ghoga, a spokesman for the opposition forces, said 16 people were killed today, including five children. 
Ghoga said people are being treated “in the hallways of build­ings” because they did not dare go outside. 
In Zintan, a city of 100,000 about 75 miles (120 kilometers) south of Tripoli, a resident said Gadhafi’s forces were shelling from the foot of a nearby moun­tain, but rebels forced their retreat from all but one side of the city. After five days of fight­ing, Ali al-Azhari said, rebel fighters captured or destroyed several tanks and seized trucks loaded with 1,200 Grad missiles and fuel tanks. They captured five Gadhafi troops. 
Al-Azhari, who spoke to The Associated Press by phone from the city, said one officer told rebels he was ordered “to turn Zintan into a desert to be smashed and flattened.” Resentment against Gadhafi runs high in Zintan because it was the hometown of many of the detained army officers who took part in a failed coup in 1993. 



Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Anti-abortion laws advance 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Dozens of bills are advancing through state­houses nationwide that would put an array of new obstacles 
— legal, financial and psycho­logical — in the paths of women seeking abortions. 
The tactics vary: mandatory sonograms and anti-abortion counseling, sweeping limits on insurance coverage, bans on abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. To abortion-rights activists, they add up to the biggest political threat since the Roe v. Wade decision of 1973 that legalized abortion nationwide. 
“It’s just this total onslaught,” said Elizabeth Nash, who tracks state legisla­tion for the Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive-health research organization that supports abortion rights. 
What’s different this year is not the raw number of anti­abortion bills, but the fact that many of the toughest, most substantive measures have a good chance of passage due to gains by conservative Republicans in last year’s leg­islative and gubernatorial elec­tions. On Tuesday, South Dakota Gov. Dennis Daugaard signed into law a bill that would impose a longest-in-the­nation waiting period of three days before women could have an abortion — and also require them to undergo coun­seling at pregnancy help cen­ters that discourage abortions. 

“We’re seeing an unprece­dented level of bills that would have a serious impact on women’s access to abortion services that very possibly could become law,” said Rachel Sussman, senior policy analyst for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. 
On the other side, anti-abor­tion strategists such as Mary Spaulding Balch of the National Right to Life Committee have been scram­bling to keep up with legisla­tive developments: “Until the bills get on the governors’ desks, it’s premature to claim victory. But it’s moving faster than it has in previous years. ... We’re very pleased with the progress thus far.” 
In a number of states, law­makers are considering bills that would ban elective abor­tions after 20 or 21 weeks of pregnancy. These measures are modeled after a law approved last year in Nebraska that was based on the disputed premise that a fetus can feel pain after 20 weeks. 
The Idaho Senate approved one such bill Wednesday, send­ing it to the House, while a similar bill won final legislative approval in the Kansas Senate. The same type of measure is pending in Oklahoma and Alabama. 

U.S. soldier sentenced for 3 Afghan murders 
Associated Press 
JOINT BASE LEWIS­MCCHORD, Wash. (AP) — A U.S. soldier who pleaded guilty Wednesday to the murders of three Afghan civilians was sen­tenced to 24 years in prison after saying “the plan was to kill people” in a conspiracy with four fellow soldiers. 
Military judge Lt. Col. Kwasi Hawks said he initially intended to sentence Spc. Jeremy Morlock, of Wasilla, Alaska, to life in prison with possibility of parole but was bound by the plea deal. 
The 22-year-old Morlock is a key figure in a war crimes probe that has raised some of the most serious criminal alle­gations to come from the war in Afghanistan. Army investigators accused him of taking a lead role in the killings of three unarmed Afghan men in Kandahar province in January, February and May 2010. 
His sentencing Wednesday came hours after he pleaded guilty to three counts of murder, and one count each of conspira­cy, obstructing justice and ille­gal drug use at his court martial at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, south of Seattle. 
Morlock, the first of five sol­diers from the 5th Stryker Brigade to be court-martialed in the case, will receive 352 days off of his sentence for time served and could be eligible for parole in about seven years, said his lead attorney, Frank Spinner. He will be dishonorably discharged as part of his sen­tence. 
Under his plea deal, he has agreed to testify against his co-defendants. 
Asked by the judge whether the plan was to shoot at people to scare them, or to shoot to kill, Morlock replied, “The plan was to kill people.” 
Speaking to reporters after the sentencing, Spinner read a statement prepared by Morlock in which the soldier apologized for the pain he had caused his victims’ families and the people of Afghanistan and asked for forgiveness from his fellow sol­diers. 
Spinner speculated that “morale problems and discipline problems” in Morlock’s brigade created an environment that contributed to the killings — an argument the defense presented in court through the testimony of sociologist and war crimes expert Stjepan Mestrovic. 
Morlock had told investigators the murder plot was led by Staff Sgt. Calvin Gibbs of Billings, Mont., who is also charged in the case; Gibbs maintains the killings were legitimate. 
Other witnesses, including Morlock’s mother and his for­mer hockey coach, talked about the devastating effect of his father’s death in a boating acci­dent in 2007. Morlock said he joined the Army hoping to fol­low in the footsteps of his father, a retired paratrooper. 
But, ultimately, Morlock accepted that his actions were his and his alone, Spinner said. 
Responding to criticism that 24 years was too light for three murders, Spinner pointed to Morlock’s willingness to take responsibility for his actions and testify against his co-defen­dants. 
“He realized coming into court today the ‘why’s’ were not that important. He’s taking responsi­bility,” Spinner said. 
The plea deal had been in place for nearly two months, so the sentence “wasn’t really a surprise” to Morlock, Spinner told reporters. 
Morlock told the judge that he and the other soldiers first began plotting to murder unarmed Afghans in late 2009, several weeks before the first killing took place. To make the killings appear justified, the sol­diers planned to plant weapons near the bodies of the victims, he said. 
Army prosecutor Capt. Andre Leblanc characterized the crimes as acts of “unspeakable cruelty” by “a few extraordinar­ily misguided men.” 
“We don’t do this. This is not how we’re trained. This is not the Army,” Leblanc said during his closing statement Wednesday. 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, March 24, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Best conference around 

After the first two rounds of the NCAA tournament this weekend, a lot of media types have been writing a lot of columns and features and blog posts about a certain basket­ball conference that didn’t exact­ly live up to expectations. 
But I’m not going to write about that. I’m 


Laura Myers 
going to tell 

you about a Senior Sports conference 
Writer 

better than any other, one that sent an NCAA record nine teams to the tournament, and then sent nine teams to the Round of 32. It has five advancing to the Sweet Sixteen. Two pulled off upsets to get there, including a No. 7-seeded team defeating a No. 2. The four members of this conference that lost in the second round fell to No. 1-or No. 2­seeds, and all but one put up a real fight on their way down. 
The five teams are distributed between three brackets, which means four could advance to the Elite Eight. And while it’s not likely, three could reach the Final Four. Two have a legitimate chance. No other conference even has that pos­sibility. What is this crazy powerful conference I’m talking about? Why, it’s none other than the Big East. That’s right, the women’s Big East conference is easily the best in all of college basketball. 
For the past couple of years, the Big East (and, let’s be honest, women’s college basketball) has been looked at as Connecticut and a bunch of other teams. But other Big East teams have historically taken the reins — Rutgers used to be a powerhouse, and of course there’s the small matter of Notre Dame’s 2001 national championship. 
Now, the Big East, from Connecticut on down, simply domi­nates on the national stage. 
Take the past four days. 

There was No. 9-seed Marquette, tied with No. 1 Tennessee late in the second half before ultimately losing 70-61. There was No. 3 DePaul, fac­ing No. 6 Penn State in University Park, fighting back from a double-digit deficit in a hostile environment to win 75-73. And there was No. 7 Louisville, beating No. 2 Xavier in Cincinnati. Of course, there were No. 1 Connecticut and No. 2 Notre Dame, doing what they should have done by disposing of Purdue and Temple. 
Take Wednesday’s announcement of All-America finalists. The list includes 40 players from across the country. Ten are from the Big East, representing six different schools. The Big 12 is next, with six nomi­nated athletes. There’s a possibility that some seemingly great confer­ences in college basketball haven’t matched their hype, expectations or even talent levels during the NCAA tournament. The Big East is clearly not among that group. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Where idealism and realism don’t intersect 
Is there still room for unions in 21st century America? 
Despite what the left-wingers, life­time union members and subscribers to Catholic social teaching will tell you, unionization is a crucial development of an industrializing civilization, a stage that America has passed for at least five decades now. Our great country of laws and lawsuits does a better job of protecting the 

Mark Easley 

working class than union bosses. Don't get me Elephant in wrong, the devel-the Room oping world still needs unions. Unionization is stifled in China, and so are workers' rights that people in Europe and the U.S. have enjoyed for years. As a multinational religion, Catholicism is right to spread the message of unions to where they are needed, however to say that these outdated vehicles of progress are still relevant in the developed world is naive. 
If justice is what you are after, you have much greater rights as an indi­vidual these days than as a collective. Unions are supposed to protect “the voice of the worker in the work place” however my voice rings just as loud with a trial lawyer and without the accompanying union fees. I don't advo­cate everyone suing everyone to solve every little thing, but unfortunately many people get away with this these days and for better or for worse, that is the world we live in. 
Have you heard of “mob mentality?” Everyone thinks the same thing and you can't really alter your opinion even if you might not necessarily agree. Well, a union is a mob. A union seeks higher wages and benefits from an employer. What do you think happens when an employer agrees? Mob men­tality kicks in and you ask for even higher wages and benefits. It worked once right? You feel empowered and part of something bigger than yourself. 
The employer, who watches the num­bers and the profits, eventually resists because they can't afford the increas­es. Suddenly the mob is on the defen­sive and decides to strike or otherwise hold the company hostage until their requests (demands) are met. In any group you have greed, corporations or unions, and mob mentality will drive greed further. The employer can either cave to the demands, possibly endan­gering the competitiveness and life of the company, or seek cheaper labor elsewhere. The choice is usually pretty obvious. Boom! We just explained the entire outsourcing issue our country has faced the last few decades. Summary: Unions are largely to blame. 
Unions (and some have help from government policy) have made our industries uncompetitive. That's why jobs get shipped overseas. Look at General Motors, also widely known as “Government Motors,” the classic example of unions destroying great American business. For years, autoworker unions have sapped the company dry, making it so inefficient that when the financial crisis hit, it declared bankruptcy. The bailout by the taxpayers was the only thing that could save the company, but frankly we should have let it go for being such a poorly run and union driven (as opposed to customer and shareholder driven) company. Any company with union labor will always be less com­petitive than a non-union competitor. Unions encourage short-term gains but long-term job losses for workers. They are a major factor in destroying busi­nesses over the long term in today's global economy. 
If private sector unions bleed compa­nies dry, then public sector unions bleed the taxpayers dry. The same inefficiencies and the same mob men­tality apply except the taxpayers can’t choose to seek cheaper labor else­where. Negotiations are one-sided and benefits are given out like party favors by politicians. And when you try to enact reasonable cost cutting meas­ures when the budget runs a deficit, the unions will protest and hold a state or country hostage in the process like we have seen in Wisconsin recently. That’s not a democracy, that’s a thugocracy. 
The power is with the individual. Educate yourself on what will make you successful and worry-free. Go into a high growth industry or learn in-demand skills. Get health insurance from your employer or make enough to afford your own. Don't get a pension, get a personal IRA and 401(K). Support right-to-work legislation or move to a right-to-work state and don't join a union if you don't need to. It's a new world, and the ones that educate themselves will thrive. 
Collective bargaining may be consid­ered a right by some, but so is being stupid. Some rights don't have to be exercised. And that is how Sue sees it. 
Mark Easely is a junior computer sci­ence major. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Risk awareness, really? 
GreenMan, 

I'm perplexed by some of your statements in “Nuclear catas­trophe, risk awareness” (Mar. 23). 
First, yes, nuclear power and fossil fuels all provide risks to human health. But to say that “nothing about the wind or sun­shine is by its nature damaging to the human person” is clearly false. I hail from Tornado Alley, so I am quite aware of the wind's power to do damage. The U.S. has an average of 1200 tornadoes each year. We have an average of 80 deaths and 1500 injuries each year due to tornadoes. That’s not many, but they are proof of the wind’s ability to damage people. 
To say that sunshine does not harm people is even more mis­taken. My environmental chemistry textbook tells me that UV-B “causes human skin to sunburn and suntan; overexposure can lead to skin cancer, the most prevalent form of cancer.” It goes on to say that higher amounts “adversely affect the human immune system.” Malignant melanoma affects 1 in 100 Americans. Other, slower types of skin cancer affect 1 in 4 Americans. The eyes are also damaged by exposure to UV light. 
Furthermore, you acknowledge that the construction of windmills sometimes involves workplace accidents. Solar pan­els have their own risks as well. Production of photovoltaic cells involves the use of cadmium, one of the worst heavy met­als for health purposes. Lead and mercury are also used in the production of the panels. Please, Notre Dame, don’t lash out at me, I know that solar panels are still far greener than fossil fuels, I’m just trying to ensure that GreenMan is not “risk­oblivious” himself. 
I considered launching a large-scale defense of nuclear power here, or maybe a slightly less large-scale defense of not always preparing for the worst-case scenario, when the odds are so long, but instead I'll say this: as an environmental sci­ence major, I theoretically like the idea of your commentary. However, environmentalists must be careful not to make igno­rant or rash statements which then discount the weight of their ideas. 
Kim Ford 
senior Farley Hall Mar. 22 

OBSERVER POLL 
“Much speech is one thing,well-timed speech is another.” 
SophoclesGreek tragedian 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A person reveals his character bynothing so clearly as the joke heresents.” 
Georg Christoph Lichtenberg
German scientist and satirist 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 24, 2011 page 11 
Let’s hear it for the ladies 
In the next couple of days we’ll hear two very significant stories from our gospels. In both, which appear nearly back-to-back tomorrow and Sunday, women have prominent –– and indeed, similar — roles. 
Tomorrow, March Kate Barrett 25, is the feast of the 
Faithpoint 
Annunciation, cele­brating the day the angel Gabriel came to Mary to tell her she would bear a son, Jesus (which means, you guessed it, exactly nine more shop­ping months till Christmas). 
The gospel for this Sunday, March 27, tells the story from John’s gospel of Jesus meeting the Samaritan woman at the well and eventually opening her heart, and the hearts of all the Samaritan townspeople, to come to believe in him. 
The gospels contain plenty of stories of people who encountered Jesus without ever understanding that they had just met the Messiah. They stood right there in the presence of Jesus Christ and just didn’t get it. But Mary did, and the woman at the well did too. What can we learn from these two so that we are open enough to recognize our own encounters with God? 
Women don’t really get a lot of good coverage in the gospels. With the excep­tion of Luke’s gospel, and probably due in large part simply to the culture of the time, we just don’t hear too much about the ladies of first-century Palestine. So consider this: why were these two stories of women responding to the Lord’s call thought to be important enough to make the cut? How did they end up in John’s and Luke’s final drafts? 
The story of Mary’s annunciation is an obvious choice: it lays the scriptural foun­dation for our understanding of Jesus as fully divine and fully human. But if we look a little deeper, and especially if we consider both of these women together, the woman at the well and the mother of God have something to teach us about our own responses to God in our lives. 
Now of course, especially with the ben­efit of hindsight, we’d expect Mary to have the reaction she did. Even though God, through his messenger Gabriel, had just dropped a bomb she couldn’t have seen coming, she could immediately respond with obedient openness to his plan. 
The situation of the woman at the well might more closely resemble our own. Jesus doesn’t have any earth-shattering news for her. In fact, he just needs a favor, as he’s hot and thirsty from his travels. However, he is a man, speaking to a woman; he is a Jew, speaking to a Samaritan. Both these distinctions set off red flags for her. 
Additionally, the woman almost certain­ly only drew water from that well in the heat of the day because she hoped no one else would be there. Married five times, she seems to have acquired a reputation and lost the respect of her community. If you wanted to be alone in Samaria, you would definitely choose high noon for your most labor-intensive outdoor chores. 
When Jesus inexplicably walks right up and begins to speak to her, she views him with the skepticism of a person who’s been burned before. Only as she comes to realize that Jesus already knows her deepest humiliations and still wants to share his saving love with her does she open her heart to worship him and even find the courage to urge others to do the same. 
We might respond to an encounter with Christ much like the woman at the well did because our lives, like hers, are bur­dened by the sins, fears, self-conscious­ness, selfishness and guilt that keep us from welcoming freely the love Jesus offers us. Our good news is that, like the woman at the well, we too can argue with God. We can put up defenses. We can speak to him out of our fear or embar­rassment or guilt and he will continue to engage us until we too can say, “we know that this is truly the Savior of the world.” 
While we might recognize ourselves in the reluctance of the woman at the well, we might also pray for the open heart of Mary, the mother of God. In one of these women we come to understand the bur­dens that our own guilt, fear and shame place on our ability to respond to Jesus. In the other we recognize the beauty of a courageous willingness to follow the will of the Lord. Rarely do we encounter these two readings in such close proximity, but in the next few days we can pray with the living stories of two women who each knew — as John’s gospel states — that Jesus knows everything about us and longs for us to follow him. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Appreciation for OIS 
As an Arabic and Peace Studies double major, it goes without saying that I have an invested inter­est in the political climate throughout the Middle East. These are remarkable times, indeed, what the world is currently witnessing are revolution­ary developments that will lead to a drastically changed region, and with it, a new era of legiti­mate rule by largely oppressed populations. 
Remarkable times, yes, but also extremely pre­carious. I was one of the 26 students accepted to study abroad at the American University in Cairo during the 2011-12 academic year. The prospect of immersing myself within Arab culture was exciting to me not only because I would have the opportunity to enhance my own knowledge of the Arabic language, but also to create meaningful inter-cultural dialogues. 
So when violence erupted throughout the Middle East, first in Tunisia, then Egypt, followed by Yemen, Bahrain, Libya and the like, I was aca­demically enthused due to the nature of my research in conflict resolution. However, being the staunch realist that I am, I was also aware of the dangers and liabilities Notre Dame’s OIS faced in sending 26 of its students to Egypt next year. 
Those who know me understand that I would jump at the opportunity to enter a war-zone in an effort to better understand the mechanisms of peace building. However, I do not hold OIS accountable for me not being able to further this goal given the circumstances. 
Moreover, I take issue with Joe Massad’s state­ments in Wednesday’s Observer, “[With] options like other Arab countries abound, I was disap­pointed to find out that OIS would not pursue any of these opportunities.” 
Even without the unpredictability of revolution­ary activity spreading to other Middle Eastern countries, it is naïve to believe that a new pro­gram, even borrowed from other similar universi­ties, could be constructed in less than a year’s time given the existing responsible methodology for validating OIS programs. 
OIS granted us 26 students the opportunity to apply to other locations as a reasonable alterna­tive to studying in Cairo. This was a generous offer considering that studying abroad is a privi­lege and not a right — just ask any of the ND stu­dents who were waitlisted to an abroad program. I will be traveling to Athens during the Spring 2012 semester and I look forward to the experi­ence itself, and also to the location’s proximity to the Middle East for travel purposes. I applaud OIS for their dedicated work in making this happen. 
If the Middle East can adapt to its current situa­tion, so too, can we find ways to further our aca­demic ambitions via the most logical alternatives possible. 
Sam Mitchell 
sophomore Knott Hall Mar. 23 

Facts about tradition 
Mr. Stein, 

Thank you for your enlightening letter (Mar. 23) on the traditions of Notre Dame, most notably of LaFortune. I must have forgotten about these hal­lowed hallmarks while having fun on spring break, but luckily you were there to refresh my memory on the love of tradition at our university. Now, let me enlighten you on a few fascinating yet overlooked facts about tradition. 
First, the East Lounge of LaFun was a laundry room until 2005 –– not exactly the quietest place to study on campus. I’m not sure if rattling off a few philosophers and our beloved president emeritus qualifies as founding a tradition that was started within the last decade. 
Second, the East Lounge was intended for group study. It says so on the board as you walk in. Perhaps our study group imperialistically –– although I’m not sure you’re using the word correct­ly –– occupying the lounge with noise and brash abandon for these unwritten rules was, in fact, living up to the true tradition of the East Lounge. 
Third, as a fellow PLS major, I have also encoun­tered the strands of tradition throughout history, philosophical or otherwise. I’ve also seen them bro­ken down, rejected and tossed out. Traditions are constantly changed, and only last as long as no one objects to them. Perhaps next time, Mr. Stein, you can invoke the Stoic tradition and accept the fact that we were talking in the East Lounge. No sense worrying about what is beyond your control. I respect the quiet of others, but not unsolicited and baseless advice. Thanks for the lecture, but I already pay enough for those just to be able to come to LaFun every day. 
Eric Secviar 
sophomore Knott Hall Mar. 23 
Liberating East Lounge 
In response to Mr. Stein’s short commentary titled “Tradition of the East Lounge,” (Mar. 23) we have a few comments to make. We would like to open with the statement that we are students in the College of Engineering. Students in our course of study, along with business students, apparently never pick up any respect for tradi­tion according to your words. 
LaFortune was built to provide a convenient and useful location for the students of campus to socialize and enjoy each other’s com­pany, as well as provide a few services on campus so we do not have to travel off campus. If you treat LaFortune as your sole study space and ignore the multitude of study lounges sprinkled about campus (and your dorms), you are being naïve. Especially if you are one of those ridiculous souls that acts like they are productive sit­ting in the booths surrounding the Huddle. 
Every time our fellow engineers and we frequent the Lafun base­ment, we head straight to the East Lounge, specifically because it is quiet and we can talk and discuss our work without being bothered. In fact, other students studying in this space leave within a few min­utes, most likely because they realize that our arguments and dis­cussions are so important that we need the most focused environ­ment possible, with the least distractions. 
The reason your rules are “largely unwritten” is because they simply do not exist. But who are we to interject with our “imperial­ist, impolite noise.” We simply believe in the First amendment and our right to free speech. 
And Mr. Stein and your fellow PLSers — there is this giant silent space, approximately 429,780 square feet worth, called the Hesburgh Library, and it is about 200 yards east of “LaMent.” You should check it out sometime. Great for reading. They have some books available as well, most showing respect for Aristotle, Plato and Fr. Hesburgh. 
Sincerely, 
Garrett Campbell 
junior Knott Hall Mar. 23 


The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Thursday, March 24, 2011 

On campus 
What: Asian Film Festival and Conference Where: Browning Cinema, DeBartoloPerforming Arts CenterWhen: Friday, March 25 and Saturday, March 26 How much: films- $3 students, $5 regular; conference- free and opento the publicLearn more: performingarts.nd.edu,ftt.nd.edu, kellogg.nd.edu 



SATURDAY MARCH 26 
12 -3 p.m. ACADEMIC PANEL “The Curious Cabinet of Kon Satoshi: Phantasm, Feminism, and Fear” 
Lecture by Melek Ortabasi, Assistant Professor, Program in World Literature, 
FRIDAY MARCH 25 
Simon Fraser University 
“Connected Disconnect: Superflat, Parallax, and the Virtual Limits of a
6:30 p.m. “Kamui Gaiden” 
Yoichi Sai, 2009 120 mins. 

Starring Ken’ichi Matsuyama (“Death Note”), this Japanese jidai-geki period piece tells the story of a fugitive ninja known as Kamui. Fed up with the life of an assassin, Kamui attempts to escape his former masters, who now wish him dead. As he tries to forget his past and forge a peaceful new life in a seaside fishing village, Kamui’s past begins to catch up with him. Finally, he is forced to choose between his own escape and his responsibility to those who have become his adoptive family. Kamui Gaiden is based on the classic 1960s manga by Sanpei Shirato, which was also the inspiration for a late 60s anime series. 
9:30 p.m. “Summer Wars” Mamoru Hosoda, 2009 114 mins. 
Directed by Mamoru Hosoda, who previously received accolades for his 2006 film, “The Girl Who Lept Through Time,” this film follows Kenji Koiso. Koiso’s upperclassman crush, Natsuki, has hired him to pose as her fiancé to please her very traditional family at her great-grandmother’s 90th birthday. While at the family’s country estate, Koiso, a math whiz, is caught up in a hacker’s plot to take control of OZ, a pervasive social network site, used for everything from everyday purchases to government affairs. As tensions rise within the family and in the outside world, it is up to Kenji and Natsuki to reunite the family and prevent the virtual world from wreaking havoc in the real world. “Summer Wars” was a blockbuster hit in Japan and has accumulated awards at film festivals around the world. 

Post-Cartesian New Media” 
Lecture by Jonathan Abel, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and Japanese, Pennsylvania State University 
“Shojo Desire” 
Lecture by Margherita Long, Associate Professor of Japanese and Comparative Literature, University of California, Riverside 
4 p.m. “Millennium Actress” Satoshi Kon, 2001 87 mins. 
The second feature-length animated film directed by the recently deceased Satoshi Kon follows the elderly actress Chiyoko Fujiwara. In the piece, Fujiwara recounts her life story during an interview with director Gen’ya Tachibana. Her memories and the stories of her career blend together to tell a timeless story of lost love and yearning. 
6:30 p.m. “Paprika” 


Satoshi Kon, 2006 90 mins. 
Satoshi Kon’s last complete feature film released before his death, “Paprika,” was a major influence for the 2010 blockbuster hit “Inception.” It centers on the developers of the DC Mini, a device that enables the user to view and explore the dreams of others. When a prototype machine goes missing, doctors Atsuko Chiba and Kousaku Tokita must work together with Detective Toshimi Konakawa to recover it. The protagonists realize that the thief is using the DC Mini to cause the dream and real worlds to bleed into each other and must embrace their own true personae and face their darkest dreams to triumph. 
9 p.m. “The Sky Crawlers” Mamoru Oshii, 2009 122 mins. 
Mamoru Oshii directs this film adaptation of Hiroshi Mori’s series of novels of the same name. Occurring in an alternate Earth timeline, the film tells the story of a group of “kildren.” These “kildren” are perpetual teenagers who pilot fighter jets in WWII-style aerial dogfights for mysterious powers to enter­tain and placate the masses. Forced to face death on an everyday basis, the film explores how the “kildren” live their lives to the fullest while coming to grips with their own mysterious identities. Oshii, a prolific and decorated anime director, is best known for his work on the “Ghost in the Shell” fran­chise. 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Thursday, March 24, 2011 page 13 
Thursday 3/24ND Dance Off Legends10 p.m.Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID They’ve got rhythm, how ‘bout you? The Irish Dancers, First Class Steppers, Project Fresh, Transpose and Troop ND are invading Legends to tear up the dance floor and compete for the title. Come support the teams as they display their unique talent and moves.  Friday 3/25Glee Club Spring ConcertLeighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center8 p.m.Tickets: $3 students, $5 regular The Glee Club has performed all over the world, so be sure to catch this acclaimed group as they fill DPAC with their beautiful melodies. While the songs will range from sacred to secular, bar­bershop to Notre Dame, the talent from the boys will be consistent and harmonic. Begin your week- Saturday 3/26“Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 1” 101 DeBartolo Hall 8 and 10:30 p.m.Tickets: $3 It’s never too early to get excited about the final installment of the Harry Potter movie series, arriving in theaters in July. Relive the agony, joy and friendship experi­enced by Harry, Ron and Hermione in their search for Horcruxes. No matter how many times you’ve already seen it, the movie will still  Sunday 3/27Met Opera: Lucia di LammermoorDeBar tolo Performing Ar ts Center 1 p.m.Tickets: $16 students, $23 regu­lar Head down to DPAC for some culture to wrap up your weekend. Natalie Dessay stars as the heroine of Donizetti’s masterpiece, playing the innocent young woman driven to madness in this tragic opera based off a novel by Sir Walter Scott.  
end on a good note at DPAC.  move you from start to finish.  
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu  


this new style obvious. Although stylisti-The creation of “Angles” was consider-companion tracks. 
By TROY MATHEW 

cally surprising, the first track is among ably more democratic. For the past three The flaws of the album are admittedly 
Scene Writer 

the strongest on the album. It features albums, lead singer minor. However, as an ardent Strokes fan, The last time the Strokes released an what makes the Strokes unique: catchy Casablancas was the pri-I hold this album to an impossible stan­
album, you were most likely celebrating the recent accomplishment of earning your driver’s license and listening to songs like “My Humps” and “Gold Digger” on the radio. Needless to say, it’s been a while. 
However, the kings of effortlessly cool, New York’s finest rock export, did not take a five-plus year vacation following the release of 2006’s “First Impressions of Earth.” Band members, most notably gui­tarist Albert Hammond Jr. and lead singer Julian Casablancas, pursued successful solo projects, while break-up rumors ran rampant. 
Their fragmented recording sessions for “Angles” were also cause for delay. After a set of sessions with producer Joe Chiccarelli, the band decided to scrap their progress entirely. Keeping only one song from their initial recording stint, the Strokes rewrote and remade the album, top to bottom, in Hammond Jr.’s private recording studio in upstate New York. 
And so, after five years of anxious wait­ing, “Angles” has finally been made avail­able. This lengthy wait on the latest work of the garage-band-revivalists finally cul­minated in shock: ‘80s-reggae-synth-pop. 
Opening track “Machu Piccu” makes guitar riffs and Casablancas’ signature perfectly nonchalant vocals. 
As suggested by its garishly-colored geometric cover art, “Angles ” has an over­whelmingly ‘80s vibe. Along with “Machu Piccu,” “Two Kinds of Happiness” and “Games” sound like they could have been plucked from a Duran Duran album. These tracks feature a synthesizer without sound cheesy or obnox­ious. 

The Strokes maintained their essence. Remnants of garage rock can still be heard, they’re just buried under a heap of totally rad ‘80s production. Much like their first album, the critically-acclaimed “Is This It?,” “Angles” has short, punchy tracks with only one reaching past the four-minute mark. 
mary songwriter. “Angles,” however, features songs written from a variety of sources. This quality is reflected in the album’s lack of cohesion. Some tracks are very remi­niscent of Casablancas’ solo work on “Phrazes for the Young,” while other tracks, such as “Gratisfaction” and “Taken for a Fool,” fit in easily with the band’s prior work. “Angles” is more a grab bag of songs than a focused effort on coherence. While this seemingly random assort­ment features some spectacular high­lights, other tracks are underwhelming. “You’re So Right” is an example of experi­mentation gone wrong. The electro-processed vocals and screeching guitar make for what sounds like bad Radiohead. “Call Me Back,” the simplest track on the album, is, frankly, boring and doesn’t hold interest like its more upbeat 
dard. Considering the supreme talent of the five members and the five-year time period for the completion of “Angles,” anything less than mind-blowing perfec­tion from the Strokes would be a disap­pointment. 
All things considered, “Angles” makes for a hugely enjoyable musical experi­ence. While going in a completely unex­pected, ‘80s hair-band direction, it doesn’t sacrifice any of the qualities that make the Strokes my favorite band. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 


SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 24, 2011 

MLB 

Bonds trial heats up as witness takes stand 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — A key government witness in the Barry Bonds perjury trial tes­tified Wednesday that he saw the home run king’s personal trainer leave Bonds’ bedroom at spring training with a syringe in 2000. 
Steve Hoskins said that when he saw Bonds and his personal train­er, Greg Anderson, coming out of conversation with Anderson about steroids so he could convince Bonds ’ father, Bobby Bonds, that his son was using the drugs. 
Bobby Bonds , a former bas eball star himself, was suffering from cancer in 2003. Hoskins said he made the recording in front of Barry Bonds’ locker in March of that year “to show Bobby 
actually what 
r e a l l y  w a s  
going on.”  
“ T h a t  w a s  


the master the only way to 
“I was trying to tell
bedroo m he prove it to 
Barry how bad the
assumed him,” Hoskins Anderson had steroids and drugs said. injected the actually were.” Portions of star player that recording with steroids. were played for 
Steve Hoskins 
He testified the jury in fed-that he saw witness eral court the two disap-Wednesday pear into that afternoon. room “once or At one point twice” at each on the record-spring training over three ing, Anderson is heard dis-consecutive years beginning cussing what prosecutors in 2000. allege are designer steroids 
He also told the jury of he supplied to Bonds. Says eight women and four men Anderson: “But the whole that, a year earlier, Bonds thing is ... everything that had ordered him to research I’ve been doing at this point, the benefits and side effects it’s all undetectable.” of a steroid after the slugger Soon after the material was had undergone elbow sur -played for the jury, Bonds’ gery. attorney Allen Ruby went to 
Hoskins was a childhood work trying to erode Hoskins’ friend of Bonds’ and traveled cred ibility. Ruby accused with him as an assistant until Hoskins of planning to extort 2003. Hoskins testified that Bonds after the player sev-Bonds’ significant weight ered business ties with gain concerned him so much Hoskins during a March 27, that he secretly recorded a 2003, meeting. 
During cross examination, Ruby suggested the recording was not made in March — as Hoskins said — but was done after the business split, per­haps in April, because Hoskins and Anderson dis­cuss Bonds’ slow start to the season. 
Hoskins also said he secret­ly recorded conversations with Bonds’ doctor and busi­ness lawyer. Hoskins said his recording of Dr. Arthur Ting was made in late 2003 or 2004, in hopes of dissuading Bonds from using steroids. 
“I was trying to tell Barry how bad the steroids and drugs actually were,” Hoskins said. “I was trying to convey to him from Dr. Ting and oth­ers how bad they were.” 
Hoskins denied he was planning to extort Bonds with the Ting recording — after Ruby pointed out that Bonds and Hoskins had parted ways as business partners by the time of that recording, too, and weren’t getting along. 
“I would want to help Barry then and would want to help Barry now,” Hoskins said, noting he has since lost the recording of Ting. 
Hoskins also said he recorded a spring 2003 con­versation he had with Laura Enos, Bonds’ business lawyer, to protect himself. Enos was at the meeting where Hoskins signed a document severing his business ties with Bonds. 
Under questioning from federal prosecutor Matt Parrella, a jittery Hoskins testified that in 1999 Bonds ordered him to look at the pros and cons of the steroid Winstrol. 
“He said ‘find out what this steroid does and what the side effects are and is it good or bad,’“ Hoskins said. Bonds told him to consu lt Ting, Bonds’ personal surgeon who is also scheduled to testify for the government. 
The order came after Bonds had elbow surgery early that season, which caused him to miss seven weeks. 
Bonds, the all-time major league leader in home runs with 762, is accused of four counts of lying to a federal grand jury and one of obstructing justice for testify­ing in 2003 that never know­ingly took perfo rmance ­enhancing drugs. 
In opening statements Tuesday, Bonds’ lead attorney acknowledged that Bonds did indeed take steroids but claimed that Anderson misled him about what the sub ­stances were. 

Hoskins also testified that he occasionally gave cash payments in the thousands of dollars to two women Bonds was dating during his playing days with the Giants. 
Hoskins said he also paid Anderson on behalf of the player. Prosecutors allege that the trainer suppli ed Bonds with performance ­enhancing drugs. 
Hoskins was called after the government’s lead sports doping investigator, Jeff Novitzky, finished testifying 
on the third day of trial. Hoskins was still on the stand at the end of Wednesday’s court session. 


LPGA 

Wie, world’s 14 best set for Kia invitational 
opening event in Thailand and beating Inbee Park by six have a specific answer. I could “It’s a big tournament for 
Associated Press 

40th the following week in strokes. have played exactly the way I everybody,” U.S. Women’s Open 
INDUSTRY, Calif. — Michelle Singapore. The top 14 players in the have for two weeks and fin-champion Paula Creamer said. Wie has been too busy with “I worked really hard this off-world ranking are in the field, ished second both times. It’s “It’s right before our first major finals at Stanford to have a season to get healthy and to get led by No. 1 Yani Tseng. She just that sort of fine line. of the year. It’s a great golf problem with the LPGA Tour’s better,” Wie said. “I think right won in Thailand and has three “I think I’m just on the right course; it’s a tough golf course. light early schedule. now I’ve been working on other worldwide victories this side of that, doing the right Depending on the weather, it’s 
“For me, it didn’t seem so everything. If I work on one year. things at the right time. Getting not going to be a real low win-slow because I had finals last thing, then another thing fails.” “It’s really tough,” Tseng said up and down when I need to, ning score.” week and I’ve been going to The Kia endorser is playing about the course. “I know it’s and making a birdie putt to Creamer was paired with school,” Wie said Wednesday, a the Industry Hills Golf Club at going to be a really tough keep some positive momentum NASCAR driver Juan Pablo day before the start of play in Pacific Palms for the first time. course to shoot a low score. I’m going. I think I’ve lacked that a Montoya in the pro-am round the Kia Classic. “So, it’s been “It’s pretty tough,” Wie said. just going to be patient.” little bit in the last year or Wednesday. Montoya is in the really busy for me.” “It’s a good golf course. It’s Karrie Webb has won the last two.” area for the Sprint Cup race 
Wie won the Canadian tricky.” two tour events. On Sunday in The Kraft Nabisco Sunday in Fontana. Women’s Open last season for The tournament is the tour’s Phoenix, she rallied to win the Championship, the first major “He’s a really nice guy,” said her second LPGA Tour title. She first in the Los Angeles area in LPGA Founders Cup for her of the season, is next week at Creamer, coming off a second-has played two of the first three six years. Last year at La Costa 38th LPGA Tour victory. Mission Hills in Rancho Mirage, place finish in Phoenix. “He’s a events this year, finishing sec-in Carlsbad, Hee Kyung Seo “It’s just really a fine line,” Calif. The tour will then be off good player as well. It’s cool to ond last month in the season-won her first LPGA Tour title, the Hall of Famer said. “I don’t five of the next six weeks. intermix with other athletes.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Earn Extra Money Students needed ASAP. Earn up to $150 per day being a 
Mystery Shopper. No Experience Required. Call 1-888-534-5008 
——————————————— 

——————————————— 
FOR SALE 
17702 Douglas Rd South Bend 
Newly Renovated 3 Bed/2 Full Bath 
2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek 
Lots of Parking Walk to Campus 50+ Photos on web 
17702douglas.com 574-876-8596 ——————————————— 
NOTICES 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu ——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
——————————————— “All hockey players are bilingual. They know English and profanity.” 
-Gordie Howe 
“Baseball is the only field of endeavor where a man can suc­ceed three times out of ten and be considered a good performer.” 
-Ted Williams 
“You miss 100% of the shots you don't take.” -Wayne Gretzky ——————————————— 
“If you're not making mistakes, then you're not doing anything. I'm posi­tive that a doer makes mistakes. 
-John Wooden 
“We didn't lose the game; we just ran out of time.” 
-Vince Lombardi ——————————————— But please, if I could only tell her goodbye All I want is just one more day That morning in May... 
——————————————— 

Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Butler, Wisconsin prepare for Sweet 16 showdown 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) — Butler's Matt Howard took a stroll down Bourbon Street on Tuesday night, experiencing a strip of restau­rants, bars and hangouts known for lavish parties and excess. 
The senior forward knew within minutes that it wasn't his type of place. 
Too much flash. Too crazy. 
"It's not my personality, it's not what I like to do," Howard said. "For me, it's almost unnecessary. I'd rather stay away from that." 
Howard, much like the Bulldogs, is more of a stoic, hard­working Midwestern guy. And when eighth-seeded Butler faces fourth-seeded Wisconsin in the NCAA tournament regional semi­finals on Thursday night, there will be a lot of that on the floor at New Orleans Arena. 
It's worked for both programs. Wisconsin has become one of the most consistent teams in the country, making its fifth run to the round of 16 in the past 11 sea­sons. Butler is in the midst of a second straight deep run in March that included a trip to the national championship game last season, where the Bulldogs lost to Duke. 
"They don't beat themselves so we're going to have to beat them," Wisconsin freshman Josh Gasser said. "That's a lot like how we play." 
Wisconsin (25-8) is the typical Big Ten team, with a suffocating defense and methodical offense that slowly wears opponents down. That's how the Badgers were able to slip past Kansas State in the second round with a 70-65 win, despite Jacob Pullen's 38 points. 
Jon Leuer led Wisconsin with 19 points in the game, but it was sophomore Mike Bruesewitz who became the poster child of the Badgers' success. The 6-foot-6 forward scored 11 points and grabbed six rebounds off the bench, with his bright red, curly hair flying all over the court. 
After the game, Kansas State coach Frank Martin pulled Bruesewitz aside and asked if he had a brother he could recruit. 
"He said 'I almost called a time out a couple times just to kiss you," Bruesewitz said. 
Bruesewitz said compliments like that are the best he can receive. 
"It means you must be doing something right," Bruesewitz said. 
Wisconsin's methodical style has occasionally been the target of jokes, especially after the Badgers were bounced by Penn State in the Big Ten tournament by an unsightly 36-33 score. 
But count Butler coach Brad Stevens as a fan. 
"I could sit up here and flatter them all day," Stevens said. "I'll telling you what — why wouldn't you want to play a way where everybody is completely unselfish? 
Later he added: "There's a rea­son they don't lose very often." 
The Badgers might have met their blue-collar match in Butler (25-9), a team that has been opportunistic and unflappable in narrow victories over Old Dominion and top-seeded Pittsburgh in the first two rounds of the tournament. 
Howard, a 6-foot-8 senior, has been at the center of both victo­ries, hitting a layup on a put-back to beat Old Dominion at the buzzer and then sinking the win­ning free throw against Pitt after a foul with less than a second remaining. 

It would be easy to say Butler's been lucky. But after a two-year run of unprecedented success, it's obvious the Bulldogs are making their own luck. They're on an 11­game winning streak after losing four of five conference games in late January and early February. 
"It's definitely the character of the team — the combination of a lot of things," Butler senior Zach Hahn said. "Guys are willing and able to step up when it's their time. It's about putting the team above self." 


PGA GOLF 
Woods releases phone app to teach golfers 
members. One aspect of the 
Associated Press 
app is that golfers can video-
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — Tiger tape their swing and compare Woods is now giving lessons on it with Woods. mobile phones. The three components allow 
Woods launched a mobile users to capture their own application Wednesday called, swing on video; study Woods' "Tiger Woods: My Swing," for swing with every club in the the iPhone and iPod touch bag, and watch video of Woods. geared toward helping golfers The 14-time major champion of all skill levels improve serves as the virtual coach, through video analysis and showing golfers how to use instruction. angle lines to make sure their 
The cost is $9.99, which is swing is in the right place. It significantly higher than other also includes personalized such applications — Paul videos of Woods answering fan Azinger has an instruction app questions. for 99 cents — but Woods said Woods said he has been using his share of the proceeds go videotape since he began work-toward the Tiger Woods ing with Butch Harmon, Foundation. although it was mainly from a 
Woods said he would not hitting station. Asked if he had have done the app except that become too technical by relying it benefits his foundation, so much on tape, Woods said it specifically with college schol-was all about what's "feel" and arships. what's "real." 
So which swing is it? "What you feel and what 
Woods and his foundation you're actually doing usually came up with the idea six are the same thing," Woods months ago, right after Woods said. "It's a great feeling when embarked on his fourth swing you marry up the two. What change as a pro and began Sean is getting me to do and working with Sean Foley. The what I'm feeling that I'm doing video was taped over two ses-... when they're in line, then sions at his home course of we've got something." Isleworth and at the Tiger Woods said the app is based Woods Learning Center in on how he practices. southern California. "I've rebuilt my swing a num­
"It allows a player to use the ber of times over the years and same technology I use on a use this development to gauge daily basis," Woods said. my development and help with "People ask me all the time — my swing transitions," he said. because Sean is not there every "I'm excited that through this day — 'What are you working app, I can take this technology on?' And I say, 'The same on the road with me, and that stuff.' We use this every day." golfers around the world can 
Woods said a friend at now do the same to improve Isleworth will tape his swing their game." and it downloads to his phone. The app is available in 12 
The mobile app was pro-languages. duced by Shotzoom, which has Woods said plans are under a "Golfshot" community of way to make it available on the more than 500,000 active iPad and Android. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 2011 
PGA GOLF 

Road back for Woods proves to be challenging 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — A toddler sitting on his father's shoulder behind the third green at Bay Hill broke the silence of Wednesday morning with a comment that made the gallery laugh and caused Tiger Woods to break into a big smile. 
"I hope you win, Tiger," the boy said. 
"Me, too," Woods replied. 
That's usually not asking much of Woods, especially at the Arnold Palmer Invitational. Woods is not as dominant at Bay Hill as other PGA Tour courses, although there is no ignoring his six victories, including the last two times he played with birdie putts on the last hole. 
Those are distant memories. 
Woods returns to Bay Hill with his game progressing at a rate that not even he knows. He has gone 16 months with­out winning, and while his last competitive round was a 66 on the last day at Doral, he has yet to perform with some­thing at stake. 
Is this the week he starts turning around his fortunes? Woods won't count himself out, and neither will the tour­nament host. 
"I've obviously been watch­ing his game, just like every­one else has," Palmer said. "I feel like Tiger has a golf game that he can come to the sur­face any time. I think that's certainly a possibility here. I would just not count him out at all. 
"I think he's capable of win­ning any time." 
But it's not just Woods who seems to be fading as the next batch of emerging stars are thriving. Phil Mickelson has not won anywhere in the world since the Masters last year, and decided to enter the Arnold Palmer Invitational at the last minute. 
They are the best two play­ers of their generations. The sheer numbers support that. Woods and Mickelson have combined to win 122 times around the world and 18 majors, with Woods doing most of that damage. 
Lately, however, their road to the Masters is rather bumpy. 
For nearly two decades — dating to 1992 — Woods or Mickelson have won at least 
one tournament before Augusta National. Both are winless this year, and unless something changes the next two weeks, this will be the second straight year that nei­ther has a PGA Tour victory before the Masters. 
What's alarming about Woods is that not only has he failed to win, he's not even coming close. He has not fin­ished closer than five shots from the lead since the U.S. Open last summer. 
He attributed that to what he calls the most dramatic swing change of his career — greater than the change under Butch Harmon after the '97 Masters, and greater than when he went to Hank Haney in 2004. 
"They are bigger changes, and it's taken a little bit of time," Woods said. "Then again, I've showed some good signs of late. The Sunday round at Doral was back to what I know I can do. And then I played well at Tavistock (a two-day TV exhi­bition), and I've had good practice sessions. So I'm real­ly looking forward to tomor­row." 
He can look forward to hit­ting first from the fairway for most of the day. 
As the tour and television continue to tweak the tee times to get feature groups, they came up with a dandy at Bay Hill. Woods will spend the first two days with Dustin Johnson and Gary Woodland, both of whom are on the A-list of big hitters in golf. 
Woods has never seen Woodland, who won last week at Innisbrook. He needs no introduction to Johnson, and not just because they played together at the Memorial last summer. 
Last December, toward the end of the round at the Chevron World Challenge, Woods was waiting to tee off on the par-3 17th when he turned behind him to watch Johnson tee off on the par-5 11th. 
Johnson pounded a drive right down the middle, and Woods looked down and shook his head with a smile. Someone in the group asked Woods, "Can you hit it out there with him?" 
"Are you kidding? No," Woods replied. 
That led to a conversation about athleticism, and Johnson is a model of the pure athlete starting to be seen more on tour. 
"The thing is," Woods said that day, "there are plenty others just like him. They're not coming. They're here." 
Woods got on Twitter later Wednesday and said about the first round Thursday, "I'll def­initely be hitting first from the fairway all day tomorrow with Dustin and Woodland in the group." 
"I'll be the Corey Pavin of my group," Woods said at his press conference. "Seriously. I'll just kind of put it out there in play and put it up on the green and try and make putts. Those guys will be bombing it way out there past me. It's a new game now. When I first came out on tour, I was sec­ond longest. There was only 
one guy at the time, John Daly, that was over 300 (yards)." 
In a way, it's only fitting. When he was the reigning 
U.S. Amateur champion in 1996, Woods was paired with the defending champion in the U.S. Open at Oakland Hills. That was Pavin, and a USGA official with a sick sense of humor filled out that group with none other than Daly. 


Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Overbay,Diazprovideleadershipfor youngPirates 
Associated Press 
BRADENTON, Fla. — Sitting together at their lockers in the Pittsburgh clubhouse, Lyle Overbay and Matt Diaz stand out. They know it, too. 
"Because we're the best-looking guys on the team, right?" Diaz joshes. 
Well, let that be their little secret. 
They do have the right look here, though. Because on a Pirates club full of young­sters, Overbay and Diaz are proving there's still room for old Bucs. 
"That's really behind some of the moves we made in the offseason," general manager Neal Huntington said. "First off, these players have to perform. And if they perform, there are other things they can bring to our team. They have experienced — either secondhand or firsthand — some of the things we 're going through." 
Overbay and Diaz, the only players on Pittsburgh's 40­man spring roster who were born in 1979 when the Pirates last won the World Series, both signed as free agents in the winter. Starter Kevin Correia and relievers Jose Veras and Joe Beimel, all in their 30s, also came over. 
They're now part of a team that lost a major league-high 105 games last year and has endured 18 straight losing seasons. There's talent on the way, however, with the likes of Andrew McCutchen, Pedro Alvarez, Neil Walker and Jose Tabata forming an emerging nucleus of talent, all of them 25 and under. 
Overbay is heading into his 11th season in the bigs, hav­ing played with the likes of Vernon Wells, Roy Halladay, Troy Glaus, Frank Thomas and other All -Stars in Toronto. He realizes the Pirates want his veteran presence. 
"Young guys can get caught up in the life," the 34-year­old Overbay said, adding that he wasn't singling out any of his new teammates. "You can lose sight of what' s most important. It's not just being in the big leagues, it's staying here. 
"I was young, too. There were times when I didn't eat the best," he said. "The life catches up to you. You have to be ready to answer the bell because it's going to be rung." 
Diaz reached the playoffs last October, under the steady hand of Braves man­ager Bobby Cox. At 33, Diaz played alongside Chipper Jones, John Smoltz, Tim Hudson and others in Atlanta and learned what makes a major leaguer a true major leaguer. 
Diaz is trying to share his knowledge with the Pirates. He 's been friends with McCutchen since the center fielder was a freshman in Florida, and is getting to know Walker, the promising second baseman. 
In particular, Diaz wants to teach Walker one big word: "No." 


"Neil is a real nice person and wants to please every­one," Diaz said. "Autographs and appearances and every­thing. But you can't always say yes to everyone. You have to draw the line, so that you don't let things interfere with your preparation and your game." 
Overbay has taken a special interest in Alvarez, who made his major league in mid-June and hit 16 home runs. 
"We've talked some about hitting," Overbay said. "I'm not the kind of guy who's going to walk up to someone and just give them my opin­ion. I think it's more in how you go about your business, that's what people notice." 
The 24-year-old McCutchen is one of the bright stars in the game. He hit 16 homers and stole 33 bases last sea­son and big things are pro­jected for his future. He appreciates what players such as Overbay and Diaz bring, on and off the field. 
"It's always good to have veterans like that, " McCutchen said. "A bunch of young guys like us, you need that." 
"It's the small things they can teach us," he said. "They have been where we want to go, they 've done what we want to do." 
Veras and Beimel might bring that kind of stature to the bullpen. The Pirates had a majors-worst 5.00 ERA last season and could benefit from a pair of relievers who have pitched in the playoffs. Both signed minor league deals with Pittsburgh in the offseason. 
Veras spent parts of four seasons with the New York Yankees, where winning was expected. 
"He 's got presence out there," new manager Clint Hurdle said. 
Diaz begins this season as a platoon right fielder, sharing the spot with Garrett Jones. Whether he's on the field a lot or not, Diaz is certain his pal Overbay and the other vets will help steer these Pirates. 
"We'll always have a voice," he said. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 2011 

KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer Freshman jumper Logan Renwick attempts the long jump at the Alex Wilson Invitational March 5 at Notre Dame. 

Medley 
continued from page 24 
men ’s distance medley of junior Johnathan Shawel, freshman Patrick Feeney, graduate student Jack Howard and Rae additional­ly earned All -American honors at the NCAA indoor national championships with a fourth-place finish in the event. 
For the men, second place was not quite good enough, Rae said. 
“As a team we ’d like to bounce back from a disap­pointing second place finish at Big East this past February, ” Rae said. ”I’d like to take the experience I gained from running at the indoor NCAA championships and be an All-American at the outdoor NCAA meet.” 
Transitioning from indoor 
t o  o u t d o o r  i s  n o t  a s  
straightforward a  task as it  
may seem.  

“The main transition is the track size. Indoor tracks are usually 200-320 meters compared to out ­door tracks, which are 400 meters, ” sprinter Feeney said. “The outdoor tracks are easier to run on because in events like the 400-meter you stay in your lane all the way, which is a lot easier.” 
Additionally, wind, fluctu­ating temperatures and rain add unknown but often influential elements to com­petition. The outdoor sea­son also includes more traveling, forcing each ath­lete to stay on top of his or her class workload. 
This weekend marks the beginning of a season that is sure to be full of improvement for both men and women. 
“Everyone has been work­ing really hard at practice, and we have the opportuni­ty this weekend to run some personal bests at a very competitive meet, ” junior distance runner Rachel Velarde said. “We hope to get some Big East as well as regional qualifying times.” 
Both the Arizona State and Stanford Invitational kick off Friday with races throughout the day both Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


Sachire 
continued from page 24 
With a 5-2 victory over No. 4 Illinois on March 8, the Irish entered spring break with momentum and confidence. After winning an exhibition match against the U.S. National Junior Team, the squad dropped its first match in nearly two weeks when it visited No. 14 Kentucky. 
Picking up wins at home is naturally crucial, and after these matches Notre Dame will only host one more weekend of matches before the Big East championships. 
In the first match, Notre Dame will face a very famil­iar opponent — South Florida (10-5). 
Although the Bulls have had trouble with consisten­cy during the course of the season, the Irish know they will have a difficult match on their hands. 
“South Florida is very, very good, ” Sachire said. “Their ranking level is not as high as it should be. Their talent level is much better than that. We’re tak­ing this match as if it ’s against Duke, Illinois or any 
other highly -ranked team because we respect them so much.” 
Later in the day, Notre Dame will face Dayton (1­10). 
The Irish will begin play Sunday at noon against South Florida before con ­cluding the doubleheader with Dayton at 6 p.m. Both matches will be held at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Oswalt hit by line drive as Phillies fall to Rays 
Venable’s inside the park home run helps the Padres down the Reds; Silva pitches the Cubs to victory 
didn ’t really hit the ball 
Associated Press 
hard,” Manuel said. “He hit 

PORT CHARLOTTE, Fla— the ball OK, but he didn ’t Knocked to the ground by a really crush it. It hit him line drive to the neck, Roy (flush), I guess. It didn’t cut Oswalt stayed down for near-him or nothing, though.” ly a minute. Then, he rose to Evan Longoria homered his feet and walked off the leading off the fourth against mound on his own. Oswalt. Ramirez, who had a 
That was a good sign for RBI double in the first, was the Philadelphia Phillies. The the next batter. team felt even better after X-Oswalt, making his fourth rays revealed Manny spring training appearance, Ramirez ’s liner that hit struck out four while allow-Oswalt behind the right ear ing three runs and four hits. left nothing beyond a bruise “He just kind of grinned the team says may not pre-and said he was all right,” vent him from making his Manuel said, adding that he next scheduled start. wasn’t surprised Oswalt was 
“He’s all right. X-rays said able to get off the ground so he ’s all right, ” manager quickly. Charlie Manuel said “It’s what you’re supposed Wednesday. “When he got up to do if you’re not hurting he was OK.” real bad,” Manuel said. “He 
The defending NL East felt it, and it hurt him, too. champions said the 33-year-But he was OK. At the same from there,” the manager Wednesday and the Los Silva, competing for the old right-hander did not lose time, you’ve still got to make said. “I’d say there’s a good Angeles Dodgers beat the fifth spot in the rotation, had consciousness and was not sure he’s all right. He’s gotta chance he makes his next Chicago White Sox. allowed 20 earned runs in dizzy before leaving in the come out of the game, and start.” Kemp hit a three-run shot his previous 11 1-3 innings. fourth inning of a 4-1 loss to he’s got to go get it checked Padres 10, Reds 7 off of White Sox starter John Oakland starter Gio the Tampa Bay Rays. out.” Will Venable hit an inside-Danks in the fourth inning to Gonzalez went 5 2-3 innings, 
Oswalt fell to the ground Luis Castillo was playing the -park home run and a give his team a two-run lead. allowing two earned runs on and remained there until second base for Philadelphia triple as the San Diego He also hit a two-run homer four hits and three walks. He Manuel and a trainer at the time. Padres beat the Cincinnati against Chicago on Sunday. struck out six. Geovany Soto reached the mound to check “He could get up and walk Reds Wednesday. Ted Lilly allowed two runs and Alfonso Soriano had RBI on him. He eventually got up by his self,” Castillo said. Dontrelle Willis, who is on six hits over six innings singles in the first inning. and walked to the visiting “That’s good news.” fighting for the final spot in pitched. He struck out five clubhouse in the right-field James Shields pitched the Reds’ bullpen, allowed and walked none. Braves 4, Marlins 4 corner, receiving a standing seven scoreless innings for five runs on three hits and Danks gave up four runs, Atlanta's Brandon Hicks hit 
ovation from some of the Tampa Bay, allowing four three walks while recording three of which were earned, a tying solo home run with Rays, as well as an hits, walking one and strik-only one out. over 5 1-3 innings. He gave two outs in the ninth and the announced crowd of 6,613. ing out four. After missing his last start up six hits and walked three, Braves and Florida Marlins 
“Fortunately it was not B.J. Upton and Anthony with a hip flexor, Stauffer striking out four. played 11 innings before call-driven in a manner that Scelfo joined Ramirez and earned the victory by limiting Carlos Quentin hit a solo ing it a tie. could have really caused Longoria in driving in runs Cincinnati to two runs on six homer for the White Sox. He Tim Hudson pitched six some damage,” Rays manag-for the Rays. The Phillies hits and a walk in six innings has 10 hits in his last 13 at-solid innings for Atlanta and er Joe Maddon said. “Our scored on Erik Kratz’s ninth-pitched. Stauffer struck out bats. rookie first baseman Freddie guys were very concerned up inning single off Cesar four. Freeman homered and sin-on the dugout. I liked the fact Cabral. Venable had a two -run Cubs 3, Athletics 1 gled. that our guys were applaud-Oswalt struck out the side triple in a six -run sixth Carlos Silva had his best Hudson, National League ing for him as he walked off in the second, fanning Upton, inning. performance of a difficult comeback player of the year the field, you never want to Felipe Lopez and Kelly Cincinnati’s Homer Bailey spring, leading the Chicago last season, allowed one run, see that happen.” Shoppach. allowed four runs on nine Cubs over the Oakland gave up four hits, struck out 
Oswalt was taken for X-Manuel said the Phillies hits and a walk in five Athletics Wednesday. four and walked two. rays and left the ballpark will monitor Oswalt over the innings. The right-hander came in Florida took the lead in the without meeting with next few days. Padres reliever Luke with a 15.88 ERA, but seventh on a two-run double reporters. Manuel agreed “We ’ll probably be real Gregerson also struggled, allowed one run and three by Dewayne Wise off reliever with Maddon that the pitcher cautious with him for a cou-allowing five runs on four hits in six innings. He also George Sherrill. Wise also was lucky the ball was not ple of days to make sure he hits and a hit batter. had three strikeouts in what doubled leading off the game hit as hard as if could have doesn’t have a concussion or should be his last appear-and scored the only run been. something like that or no Angels 6, White Sox 2 ance before manager Mike against Hudson. 
“I knew it hit him on the aftereffects or setbacks or Matt Kemp hit his fifth Quade finalizes his pitching Marlins starter Ricky 
side of the head, but Manny whatever. And we’ll just go home run of the spring staff. Nolasco worked five innings. He allowed seven hits and three runs in the third. He struck out three and walked none. 

Astros 10, Pirates 6 
Hunter Pence homered for the first time this spring and had three hits before leaving in the fifth inning with a cut that required stitches, and the Houston Astros beat the Pittsburgh Pirates Wednesday. 
Pence got four stitches to close a cut on his left shin. He expects to play Thursday. 
Pence is hitting .385 and is third on the team with eight RBIs. Against left -hander Brian Burres, he hit a run-scoring double in the first inning and a solo homer in the third. 
Astros shortstop Angel Sanchez went 1 for 2 with a walk and scored two runs in his first game since March 
15. He was out with lower back pain. 
Burres worked five innings and gave up six runs on 10 hits. 
Andrew McCutchen hit a two -run homer for the Pirates. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 2011 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS  EVENTS CANCELLED  
Irish travel to Atlanta  Weather postpones games  
to take on Ga. Tech  ND baseball and softball, SMC softball and tennis all cancelled  


By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 17 Irish will face No. 20 Georgia Tech in Atlanta, Ga., today in a match-up where the two strong teams will battle to improve their records. 
Both Notre Dame (9-7) and Georgia Tech (7-5) have squads that are loaded with talent. On the other hand, both have suffered several losses this season, setting them back from their goals of making a strong push for the NCAA championships. 
“Georgia Tech is a good team,” junior Kristy Frilling said. “It’s a very important match for us and coming out with a win will really help the team, especially leading in towards the end of the season.” 
The Irish bounced back from losses to the University of South Florida and No. 4 Duke with a win over No. 19 Tennessee. All three matches were played in Tampa, Fla., over spring break. Frilling led the Irish with a 6-1, 6-0 victory at No. 1 singles. 
This season, the Yellow Jackets have dropped decisions to such powerhouses as No. 5 Michigan, No. 6 Miami, No. 7 Georgia and No. 12 California. While their record might not reflect a strong season, they have faced some of the stiffest competition in the country. 
“Georgia Tech has a very talent­ed team,” sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan said. “We are really excited to play Georgia Tech espe­cially after coming off our win against Tennessee.” 
Notre Dame has faced a similar slew of top-notch opponents, and their record reflects it as well. The Irish have only six regular season matchups remaining before they hit the Big East championships and the NCAA championships. Of those remaining matchups, only Georgia Tech and Northwestern are in the top 25. 
The Irish believe they are hitting midseason form to make a late run. 
“Everyone has definitely improved over the season and that’s really going to help us in these last few matches and then especially when it comes to tour­nament time,” Frilling said. 
Today represents another opportunity for the Irish to play a match outdoors, something they have yet to be able to do at home. 
“Our team is very comfortable playing outside,” McGaffigan said. “We had three matches in Florida and we even got to practice one day outside at home.” 
The Irish will square off with the Yellow Jackets at 3 p.m. today in Atlanta, Ga. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


Observer Staff Report 
Baseball 

For the second consecu­tive day, Notre Dame ’s baseball home opener was postponed due to inclement weather caused by a series of storms that hit South Bend during this past week. 
The announcement to postpone Notre Dame’s (7­10 -1) 5:35 p.m. opener against the University of Illinois -Chicago (6 -10) came early Wednesday afternoon after field condi­tions were deemed unsuit­able to play on. The game will be rescheduled to a date yet to be determined. 
The postponement comes just 24 hours after Notre Dame ’s original home 
opener against Oakland was postponed due to rain. 
The Irish last played Sunday against Gonzaga — a 3-3 tie — at the Irish Classic in San Antonio. Notre Dame still plans on hosting Big East foe Georgetown in a three ­game series this weekend starting Friday at 5:35 p.m. 
Softball 

Notre Dame’s home opener was cancelled thanks to days of rain which left Melissa Cook Stadium field in unplayable conditions. The Irish (16-6) were set to take on Eastern Michigan (7-4) in a double­header that the programs hope to reschedule in April. After returning from a promising but ultimately disappointing trip to California in which the Irish went 4-4, the team is ready to begin conference play in preparation for a run in the post -season. Barring further disagree­able weather conditions, the Irish will play their first home game this sea­son against Northern Illinois University Friday at 5 p.m. 
SMC Softball 
The first pitch of the home portion of the Belles’ schedule was postponed from its Wednesday after­noon time due to inclement weather and poor field conditions. 
The decision to resched­ule the doubleheader was made Wednesday morning, when it became apparent that the field had taken on too much water to be made suitable for the 3:30 p.m. contest. Belles’ (8-2) coach Erin Sullivan said that she had an easy decision to make regarding the post­ponement of the game. 
“I made the decision with 
our groundskeeper, ” Sullivan said. “Our field is basically underwater, and the tarp had blown off. Half [of the tarp] blew off last night so that whole area is soaked.” 
Coming off a spring break tournament in which they showed early prowess from both the batter’s box and the pitcher’s mound, the Belles will now have to wait until Saturday, when they host North Park, to begin their home cam ­paign. The slated opponent for the rained-out games was Goshen, a team that would have provided Saint Mary’s with an early sea­son test and an opportuni­ty to improve against a non-conference foe. 
SMC Tennis 
Snowy conditions in the Grand Rapids area last night prevented Aquinas College from making the trek to the Eck Tennis Pavilion for their match against Saint Mary ’s, resulting in the postpone­ment of the match. 
According to Belles coach Dale Campbell, both teams will try to resched­ule the contest, but no specific date or time of a make-up match are avail­able. 
The Belles (5 -4) were hoping to build on momen­tum gained from three wins in an Orlando spring break tournament. 
The Belles ’ upcoming weekend does not feature any matches, and the team will use that time to pre­pare for the start of its conference slate of match­es in the MIAA. Saint Mary ’s tennis competes next Tuesday, March 29 at 4 p.m. against MIAA oppo­nent Albion College. 


page 21 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 24, 2011 page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 2011 

Kelly 
continued from page 24 
[Freshman linebacker] Danny Spond really looked, to me, athletically fit.” 
Offensive coordinator Charley Molnar also heaped some praise on the young tight end, who caught 27 passes for 352 yards and two touchdowns last season and emerged as a critical part of the offense once junior Kyle Rudolph went down with a hamstring injury. 
“It’s really exciting watch­ing Eifert right now because he looks like an All-American in the making. He really terbacks competing for the believe have the ability to run does,” Molnar said. “He plays starting position. Junior this offense. We want to be with great confidence. He Dayne Crist, freshmen Tommy able to evaluate all the things 

plays with great speed. He’s got great ball skills. Coach [Mike] Denbrock ’s job is to bring him up anoth­er level as a blocker. He’s had a great 
offseason in the weight room, so his strength is 

“It’s really exciting watching Eifert right now because he looks like an All-American in the making.” 
Charley Molnar offensive coordinator 
Rees and that they do.” A n d r e w The coaching staff will have Hendrix and a new tool at their disposal to e a r l y evaluate the signal callers — enroll ee the Helmet Cam. E v e r e t t The new technology, which Golson will places a camera on a player’s all receive helmet to track his eyes, e x t e n d e d debuted at Wednesday’s prac­looks from tice. the coach -“To make this a real compe­ing staff. tition, we’ve got to look at 
“We have every area of their decision-to do a making, and what the Helmet great job Cam allows us to do is track 
going to be improved.” evaluating all the quarter-the eyes of the quarterback The coaches also liked what backs,” Kelly said. “We’ve got through his progressions,” they saw from the four quar-depth. We ’ve got guys we Kelly said. “If he’s staring 
down a particular receiver, you’re going to see that. If he’s moving his eyes through his progression, you’re going to see that.” 
Crist, who is wearing a knee brace as he recovers from a ruptured patella ten­don suffered in October, was the first to sport the Helmet Cam. 
“He didn’t know it was on there,” Kelly said. “He didn’t feel it.” 
The Irish will hit the prac­tice field for the second time this spring Friday morning at 8 a.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Rogers 
continued from page 22 
attack Edison Parzanese and junior midfielder Eric Keppeler. 
The Irish then hit an offensive drought, scoring only one goal in the next 25 minutes. Ohio State, led by sophomore midfielder Dominique Alexander, took advantage of this momen­tum swing, ent play, but the defense gave us something. [Senior midfielder Zach Brenneman], the player that he is, wanted to create a play,” Rogers said. “Zach passed the ball about 100 miles an hour, and the goalie got a piece of it and was up in the air. I stuck my stick out, caught it and fin­ished it. It ’s better to be lucky than good.” 
Brenneman, who was play­
ing in his first 
game since 
being injured, 
a n d t h e B u c k e y e s o u t s c o r e d the Irish 5-3  “This helps us, as in the Denver game, to show that we can win the  a g r e e d t h a t t h e g o a l involved some luck on Notre  
in the second h a l f . O h i o State tied the g a m e a t  close games and that we have what it takes to bear down in the  Dame’s side. “ I k i n d o f f o rc e d a pa s s to the crease,  
s e v e n w i t h j u s t o v e r a m i n u t e t o p l a y i n t h e  game. I don’t know if it was momementum per se, but it defnitely  and the goalie m a d e l i k e a ha lf-sa v e and flicked it up,”  
fourth quar-ter. T h e I r i s h  helps us come tournament time”  he said. “Sean w a s l u c k y e n o u g h t o b e  
w e r e d o n e  n o t y e t ,  Sean Roger  r i g h t t h e r e a n d p u t t h e  
though.  Junior attackman  ball in the net  

One of Rogers’ three goals 
— all of which came from turnovers — came with 33 seconds remaining in the game and served as the win­ning goal. Rogers said the play was unscripted and a little lucky. 
“It’s not exactly how we drew it out [during the time­out], to be honest with you. We wanted to run a differ-and save me.” 


Brenneman’s 
return was bitter-sweet. The co-captain scored one goal but was ultimately disappointed with his team’s performance. 
“I guess I would like for us to have played a little bet­ter,” Brenneman said. “We looked a little sluggish at the start. We squeaked a win out against Ohio State, a very good team.” 
Rogers said that Brenneman was clearly not himself on the field today, but even his presence on the field is a step in the right direction. 
“It was good to have him back. A player of his stature, he definitely wanted to get back on the field and help us, ” Rogers said. “We’re going to be a better team with him. He was a lit­tle rusty today, and it showed at times, but he’ll be back.” 
Notre Dame showcased their ability to close out tight games in their last two matchups, an encouraging sign for their upcoming games. 
“This helps us, as in the Denver game, to show that we can win the close games and that we have what it takes to bear down in the game,” Rogers said. “I don’t know if it was momentum per se, but it definitely helps us come tournament time.” 
The Irish will travel to Rutgers for their next matchup Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

Thursday, March 24, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

MATING RITUAL DAVID MOMONT 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 


Sports 
Thursday, March 24, 2011 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

So it begins  
Team optimistic as spring  
practicescommenceseason  
By ANDREW OWENS  
Associate Sports Editor  
The Irish returned to the  
practice field Wednesday for  
the first time in nearly three  
months and, even amidst the  
absence of junior receiver  
Michael Floyd, still felt the  
m o m e n t u m g a i n e d d u r i n g  
t h e f o u r-g a m e w i n n i n g  
s t r ea k t h at c lose d ou t the  
2010 season.  
I r i s h c o a c h B r i a n K e l l y  
s a i d h e w a s p l e a s e d w i t h  
what he saw in the morning  
practice, especially with the  
progression of a few specific  
players.  
“ [ S o p h o m o r e t i g h t e n d  
Tyler] Eifert moves so well  
down the field,” Kelly said.  
“ [ F r e s h m a n l i n e b a c k e r  
P r i n c e ] S h e m b o o n t h e  
p e r i m e t e r p l a y i n g a t t h e  
drop can reroute receivers  
s o m u c h b e t t e r i n s p a c e .  SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer  
see KELLY/page 22  Sophomore tight end Tyler Eifert catches a pass during began spring practices for the 2011 season Wednesday.  a  2010 practice. The Irish  
No. 21 Irish tohostUSF, Dayton 


MEN’S TENNIS 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
With only a little over a month until the Big East championships, the No. 21 Irish find themselves at a crossroads in their chase for another berth in the NCAA tournament. The team will continue action this weekend as it hosts Dayton and conference foe South Florida. 
Notre Dame (10 -8) has competed at a high level for much of the season, but at times has had trouble fin­ishing strongly against some of the tougher oppo­nents. 
“We need to work hard and compete hard this weekend,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. 
see SACHIRE/page 18 

MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Freshman Dyer to swim at NCAA championships 
believes it is a sign of things to man campaign for Notre Dame one of his finest performances of 21 and at Cleveland State Jan. 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 

come for Notre Dame. and will compete in the 100-the season. He finished the 200-14. 
Sports Writer 

“It’s an important step for us,” meter, 200-meter and 500-meter meter freestyle with a time of Welsh hopes that Dyer’s show-Welsh said. “We want to define freestyle events. Dyer qualified to 1:37.62 to earn a spot in that ing means promising things for 
Today, freshman Frank Dyer ourselves as a national pro-swim the 500 with an NCAA event at the championships. He next year’s championships. will do something that has only gram.” qualifying time and earned a then went on to win the 100-“Our hope is that [Dyer] has been done once in the history of Despite two top-15 finishes in spot in the 100 and 200-meter meter freestyle and led the 800-some teammates with him next the program: represent the Irish the 1-meter event at the NCAA events with NCAA B-cut times meter freestyle relay team to a year so that we can have a full in the NCAA championships. Zone diving championships by during the regular season. victory. The 400-meter freestyle presence at the championships,” Dyer will face the best in the seniors Eric Lex, the Big East “Frank has all the tools,” relay team, of which Dyer was a Welsh said. country in Minneapolis over the diver of the year, and Wesley Welsh said. “He works hard. He’s part, earned silver that day as The NCAA championships get next three days as the final colle-Villaflor and a ninth-place finish a good competitor, and he’s well. underway today and go through giate swimming event of the year by Lex in the 3-meter event, no learned a lot. He’s just done a Dyer also had impressive Saturday in Minneapolis, Minn. gets underway. Irish divers earned bids to the great job here.” showings in those events at the 
Irish coach Tim Welsh is proud NCAA championships. At the Shamrock Invitational in Hawkeye Invitational Dec. 3-5 in Contact Matthew Robison at of Dyer’s achievement, and he Dyer had an outstanding fresh-Rolfs Aquatic Center, Dyer had Iowa City, at Michigan State Jan. mrobison@nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish use late rally to top OSU 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
In their first game in over ten days, the No. 3 Irish brought just enough energy to their home turf Wednesday to withstand No. 20 Ohio State’s furious rally in the fourth quarter and escape with an 8-7 victory. 
The Buckeyes [5-4] scored first, but they quickly exchanged a pair of goals with the Irish [5-0], and the score was tied at two just ten minutes into the game. The Irish went on a run to close out the first half and take a 5-2 lead into half ­time, with goals from junior attack Sean Rogers, senior 
see ROGERS/page 22 


ND TRACK & FIELD 
Squad begins outdoor season on the road 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will leave the confines of the indoor Loftus Sports Center and embrace the outdoor track season this weekend, trav­eling to Alabama, Arizona and Stanford for various events. 
Distance runners with a chance to qualify for the NCAA regionals in May will compete in the Stanford Invitational Friday and Saturday. 
“In order to qualify we need to run a time that places us in the top-48 in the region, and getting that out of the way this weekend would be help ­ful,” sophomore middle ­distance runner Jeremy Rae said. 
Sprinters and field event athletes with the same qualifying hopes will meanwhile head to Arizona for the Arizona State Invitational Friday and Saturday. 
The indoor season con­cluded with a second ­place finish for the men and an eighth-place finish for the women. With this first outdoor meet, both teams hope to jumpstart an improved season. The 
see MEDLEY/page 18 




