
Monday, September 26, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 15, Pittsburgh 12 
An ugly victory 
Notre Dame struggles but comes through when it matters for 15-12 victory over Pittsburgh 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — It wasn’t pretty. It wasn’t easy. But it was a win. 
Notre Dame (2-2) scored with less than seven minutes remaining to defeat Pittsburgh (2-2) 15-12 and in doing so, avoided losing its third game in four attempts to start the season. 
“Well, [it was] a good win for us obviously,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “Hard fought four quarters came down to our ability to put together a very good drive at the end of the game.” 
The Irish trailed 12-7 until sophomore quarterback Tom­my Rees found junior tight end Tyler Eifert in the end zone for the go-ahead score. The two connected again on a two-point conversion to give Notre Dame a three-point advantage it would not relinquish. Eifert reeled in four passes on that drive alone for 34 yards. 
“Just guys making plays on the last drive was really what stands out,” Kelly said. “Obvi­ously two fourth down con­versions, our offensive line getting a big enough push to convert — those are good signs for us in terms of being able to win closely contested football games, because you’re going to have those on the way.” 

Pittsburgh coach Todd Gra­ham said he was proud of Pittsburgh’s game plan. Gray sped away from the Pitts-yards due to the defensive him. After he sees it, he gets ties as being part of the game. 
“We’re capable of playing burgh defense and scampered game plan, employed by Gra-much more comfortable. You We demand our guys to pay good coverage,” Graham said. down the sideline for a 79-yard ham. could see his comfort level attention to those things over “We pressured the quarter-touchdown run. It was the lon-“[They were doing] a lot that last drive. Like I said at and over again and hope it back. We had a great plan. gest Irish run since Terrance of things,” Kelly said. “A lot one time it was close to being turns out better next time.” 
“Defensively, I thought we Howard broke away from the of different coverage varia-13- or 14-out-of-15 at throwing With Notre Dame’s Septem­played well enough to win the West Virginia defense for an tions. They just did a nice job. the football.” ber slate now complete and game. I like the character of 80-yard burst in 2000. I thought we adjusted to the Rees completed 24-of-41 the team holding a 2-2 record, this team and how the players “[Gray] only had three car-things we needed to. passes for 216 yards and Kelly said he is happy with the have bought into it. I believe in ries, but obviously a big run,” “We started to get some turned the ball over twice, competitiveness and develop-our football team. We’re get-Kelly said. “He showed great pretty nice flow and rhythm giving Notre Dame an NCAA-ment of the squad. ting better.” speed. It was a big time run, and they had one three-and-worst 15 turnovers in 2011. “I told you this many times 
The Irish sealed the win late when your two-back gets in out in the third quarter, but The sophomore was poised — I like the way we compete,” in the fourth quarter when there and gets a chance and other than that we made some toward the end of each half, he said. “I’d like to win 37-0 Kelly kept the offense on the makes a big play, and that’s adjustments at halftime based Kelly said. too, but winning’s winning. field on fourth-and-one from what we expect from Jonas upon what their game plan is “The end of the half he did It’s not easy. You go on the road the Pittsburgh 35-yard line and that was a big play.” and it’s the first time someone some really good things in against a BCS team and hold with 52 seconds remaining. Overall, Notre Dame rushed has really aggressively tried to terms of throwing the foot-them to 12 points, and find a Rees kept the ball and dove for 182 yards. In addition to take Michael out of the game.” ball,” Kelly said. “He was on way to win. I like that devel­forward to gain the yard and Gray’s 84 yards, junior run-After racking up over 500 a really good streak. He had opment. We’re developing an ensure an Irish victory. ning back Cierre Wood added yards of total offense in the to step up and he didn’t get expectation with our guys that 
“I’m really pleased with our 94 yards on 23 carries. first two games and a 31-point enough on the interception he in a close game we’re going to resilience and our toughness,” “I thought [Wood] was solid,” effort against Michigan State, threw to Eifert, but you look at win. Those are good dynam-Kelly said. “We’re playing the Kelly said. “He picked up tough the Irish offense struggled him and he knows what’s go-ics. We put this one behind us kind of football we want our yards inside. A lot of his runs against the Panthers. The ing on out there. You don’t feel and we have expectations that teams to play. It’s not going were inside-out and, again, Pittsburgh defense utilized like he’s rattled.” we’re going to win every game. to be an instant classic, but here’s a guy everyone talks new looks against Rees, es-Senior kicker David Ruffer “It was a tough, blue-collar it certainly is from a football about his breakaway speed, pecially coverages he had not missed a field goal and the of-kind of day and that’s what standpoint. [These are] games but he’s not afraid to stick his seen before, Kelly said. fense was hamstrung by the was required of everybody and you have to win on the road.” nose up in there between the “Again, [Rees was] growing team’s eight penalties, which that’s what we got out of our 
Notre Dame compiled 398 tackles and that’s what he did up and seeing some things,” lost them 85 yards overall. team and it was enough to win yards of total offense but only today.” Kelly said. “There were some “We won’t do anything dif-and get out of here.” mustered two scoring drives. Rees was only able to con-new looks out there for him ferent [in practice],” Kelly Early in the second quarter, nect with senior receiver Mi-that he hadn’t seen before that said. “We’ll keep coaching our Contact Andrew Owens at senior running back Jonas chael Floyd four times for 27 we had to adjust a lot with guys. We do not accept penal-aowens2@nd.edu 


player of the game 
Tyler Eifert Notre Dame tight end 
With Michael Floyd double-covered on every play, Eifert took advantage, recording eight catches for 75 yards and a touchdown. 


stat of the game 
8 for 8 completed passes 
Sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees completed each of his eight passes on the game-winning drive late in the fourth quarter. 

play of the game 
Eifert’s six-yard touchdown catch from Rees in the fourth quarter. 
Notre Dame took back the lead for good when Rees found Eifert at the goal line to cap off an 11-play, 85-yard drive. 


quote of the game 
“It was a tough, blue-collar kind of day ... that’s what we got out of our team and it was enough to win and get out of here.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 26, 2011 
report card 



B B+ B+ B+ A­A­B C­B+ 
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees was inac­curate all game long and struggled to read Pittsburgh’s coverages. But when he was most needed, Rees played his best football. 
running backs: Cierre Wood had a quiet 94 yards in another typically solid out­ing. Jonas Gray only had three carries, but one of those was a crucial 79-yard touchdown run. 
receivers: Tyler Eifert had a stellar game at tight end, but Michael Floyd could not find a way to shake double coverage. Theo Riddick and TJ Jones struggled to replace him. 
offensive line: Pittsburgh’s complex and varied blitzes often confused the line and made Rees’ day difficult. On the late fourth-and-one play, however, the line came up with a huge push. 
defensive line: Quality play has simply become standard for this unit, which harassed Tino Sunseri all day long and limited dynamic running back Ray Gra­ham to just 61 yards. 
linebackers: Darius Fleming had his best game of the season, with three tackles for loss and two sacks. Prince Shembo and Manti Te’o each added sacks and helped contain Graham. 
defensive backs: The seondary allowed Sunseri to complete 22 of his 30 passes. Sunseri only had 165 yards, however, as the Irish prevented any long passing plays. 
special teams: David Ruffer missed his only field goal attempt, Kyle Brindza had a kickoff go out of bounds and Ben Turk was again underwhelming for a unit that continues to struggle. 
coaching: Brian Kelly and Charley Mol­nar were slow to adjust to Pittsburgh’s defensive changes, but the late-game playcalling focusing on Eifert was ab­solutely spot-on. 
3.15 
overall: There were a lot of mis­takes, and the Irish very eas­ily could have lost this game. But they didn’t, and that’s what really matters. 

adding up the numbers 

After three catches on the openingdrive, senior receiver Michael Floydhad just one catch the rest of the game. 

1 

2 
Notre Dame had its lowest turnover total of the season against Pittsburgh, 
losing the ball only twice. 
Sophomore quarterback Tommy Reesfound junior tight end Tyler Eifert fourtimes on the game’s pivotal drive. 

4 

8 
Notre Dame recorded eight tackles for loss against the Panthers, including a 
season-high six sacks. 
Panthers running back Ray Graham managed only 89 yards after averag­

ing 140 yards in his first three games. 

89 
Notre Dame earned 154 yards on the
ground in the first half, the most in one 



half under Irish coach Brian Kelly. 
154 
PITTSBURGH — Last week, the Irish took down a ranked team at home, completely shutting down a prolific running game and execut­ing well on offense. 
This week, Notre Dame struggled mightily to even break 10 points against a Pitts­burgh team that came into the contest ranked 119th in the country against the pass. Allan Joseph 

Yet this week’s win is more Sports Editor encouraging than last week’s, and it might even be more impor­tant — because this week, the Irish displayed a quality too often miss­ing in the last few years: the ability to find a way to win despite playing extremely poorly. 
Notre Dame teams of the recent past have been talented. When that talent was in sync, the Irish could compete with nearly any team. But when an opponent unveiled an un­expected defense, or concentrated on taking the primary offensive weapon out of the game, the Irish were flummoxed. When a game got ugly, the Irish fell apart and rarely found a way to win despite poor play. 
After showing flashes of chang­ing that attitude at the end of 2010, Notre Dame opened 2011 looking like it had regressed. Despite over 500 yards of offense in each of their first two games, the Irish could not find a way to make a play when they needed one. While 90 per­cent of the plays went very well for Notre Dame, all of their mistakes happened in the most critical 10 percent. 
Not so this week. It was an ugly game, especially for the offense. Tommy Rees struggled to find re­ceivers all day, displaying very little of the trademark accuracy that had earned him prolific passing num­bers in each of the first two games. Facing blitzing schemes it had never seen on film, the offensive line struggled to adequately protect Rees for much of the game. 
Yet when 90 percent of the plays went very poorly, the most impor­tant 10 percent were the best snaps the offense took all game. Needing a touchdown to retake the lead, the Irish marched down the field and got the critical points. It wasn’t pretty, but they got it done. After struggling all game, the offense clicked into gear at the most critical moment. 
The defense also got in on the act. Two weeks ago, the defense only needed to hold Michigan score­less for just 30 seconds and couldn’t do so. Saturday was a different story. Pittsburgh quarterback Tino Sunseri had had some success throughout the game, but he had no chance of succeeding late, when it mattered most. 
This is an encouraging sign for the Irish. For too long, Notre Dame has struggled in ugly games. It has had difficulty gritting out wins through sheer willpower. Yet that is what elite teams do. 
Rarely do top-10 teams breeze through every game on their sched­ule. There comes a time when every top-tier team must find a way to win in spite of poor play against an inferior — or sometimes superior — opponent. 
The Irish are not an elite team. But it cannot become one without the instinct to win. Notre Dame always finds itself in close games. Less-talented teams always play their best against the Irish, even if the Irish don’t. These are the games Notre Dame lost in the past — Tulsa and Navy from 2010 come to mind. 
Now it seems things are chang­ing. Notre Dame can grit out an ugly victory. It will have to do so again for this season to be a suc­cess. Talent is not enough. Recent history shows that. 
But if the Irish can continue to play their best during the most critical points of the game, look out. They will find a way to win a lot more in the future. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






Irish finally able to win an ugly game 

Monday, September 26, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Eifert steps up with Floyd covered 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — It isn’t easy to replace an All-American receiver who is responsible for 41 percent of the team’s receptions through three games, especially when facing a five-point fourth-quarter deficit in enemy territory. Tyler Eifert was up to the task however, and almost singlehandedly drove Notre Dame to victory Saturday. 
“Tyler Eifert was huge,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “He went up in traffic two or three times, got hit, held on to the football.” 
The junior tight end caught eight passes for 75 yards and a touch­down in the 15-12 Irish victory over Pittsburgh, but most impor­tant were his four receptions on Notre Dame’s game-winning drive, including the eventual touchdown toss from sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees. 
“I wasn’t surprised [about the coverage],” Eifert said. “I turned and showed Tommy my numbers and there was a window there and he squeezed it in. 
“It would normally go to Floyd or one of the outside guys. They backed off underneath Floyd, which left me open.” 
Eifert slid between two defenders and snared the six-yard pass from Rees to culminate an 11-play, 85­yard drive. 
Senior receiver Michael Floyd, who entered the contest with 31 receptions in three games, was bottled up for most of the afternoon and caught only one pass after the opening drive. He finished the day with four receptions and 27 yards. 

Pittsburgh double-teamed Floyd for most of the game. 
“[Eifert] was really big [on the final drive], obviously,” Kelly said. “He’s the one guy if you’re going to double Mike out and try to play three-on-two with our other two receivers, he got a lot of singular coverage and we found him and he made a lot of big catches.” 
Rees also found an open Eifert in the end zone for the two-point con­version, which ensured Notre Dame would not lose on a field goal in regulation. Rees completed all eight passes on the drive and connected with Eifert for 34 yards. The junior said his role had more to do with responding to Pittsburgh’s coverage than the design of the play. 
“It’s not like we call a play and say ‘throw it to Eifert,’” he said. “It’s just what their coverage is, how they’re playing and where the holes in the defense are. 
As Pittsburgh continued to dou­ble-team Floyd on the drive, Kelly said the team made adjustments to get Eifert involved. 
“Part of our overall passing game is you can’t take [all of the receiv­ers] away … It was just a matter of communication with Tommy. ‘Lis­ten, here’s the guys you have to keep sight on,’ and Tyler was going to be one of those guys,” he said. “Tommy did a nice job. The route combina­tions we had set up featured him. They were play calls to feature Ty­ler Eifert not as the third or fourth, but the primary receiver.” 
Eifert said the team adjusted its plans according to the dynamic of the game. 
“It’s just something that devel­ops during the game,” Eifert said. “They come out and adjust to us and we make adjustments to them and just kind of go back and forth the whole game.” 
While the offensive performance overall was sloppy, Kelly said it was important for the Irish to pull off the road victory and have the play­ers elevate their game, as Eifert did in the final stanza. 
“[Scoring] came a little easy for us the first three weeks, but this was a struggle for us, but we kept finding ways to move the football,” Kelly said. “You’re going to be pre­sented with some of these kinds of closely-fought last drive and come up with a big stop or a big conver­sion.” 
Eifert said it was a special feeling to catch the eventual game-winning touchdown, the first such experi­ence of his collegiate career. 
“I’ve been waiting,” he said. “It’s pretty cool to get a touchdown at that time … Anytime you get a win at the college level it’s always excit­ing and something to be proud of.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




Gray gets first career touchdown 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — Senior running back Jonas Gray’s 79-yard scamper in the second quarter was the first touchdown of his college career. It was also the longest touchdown run by a Notre Dame player since Ter­rance Howard’s 80-yard run at West Virginia on Oct. 21, 2000. 
“It was a big-time run,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “When your two-back gets in there and gets a chance and makes a big play — that’s what we expect from Jonas.” 
Mistakes still a problem 
Notre Dame had two turnovers in the first half against Pittsburgh, bringing its total to 15 on the season 
— most of which have come  at bad times. Six turnovers have occurred while the Irish were in the red zone, and another five occurred when Notre Dame was backed up inside its own 20-yard line. 

The Irish also committed eight pen­alties for 85 yards. 
“We’ll keep coaching our guys,” Kelly said. “We do not accept penal­ties as being part of the game. We demand our guys to pay attention to those things over and over again.” 
Defense shines 
The Irish defense stepped up again Saturday, allowing the Panthers just 
3.8 yards per offensive play and lim­iting the Notre Dame recorded six sacks Saturday, the highest total un­der Kelly and the most since the Irish had eight sacks against Hawaii in the 2008 Hawaii Bowl. 
Tuitt plays nose 
Freshman defensive lineman Ste­phon Tuitt saw significant action at the nose guard position against Pitt, splitting time with senior Sean Cwynar and sophomore Louis Nix. 
“It’s just another move towards getting [the freshmen] on the field,” Kelly said. “If you move one of the guards down to double him, it frees up two guys and they’re one-on-one 
— and you’ve got to double Tuitt. If you don’t double Tuitt inside, it’s a pass rush and you’re in trouble. 
“Normally nose guards aren’t great pass rushers. Tuitt’s big enough to play the position every down, and he gives you a great pass rush.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Pitt  3  3  6  0  12  
ND  0  7  0  8  15  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, Pittsburgh 3 
Kevin Harper 45-yd field goal with 2:16 remaining.Drive: 4 plays, -5 yards, 1:13 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 3 
Jonas Gray 79-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 13:44
remaining

Drive: 1 play, 79 yards, 0:14 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 6 

Kevin Harper 23-yard field goal with 9:13 remaining.Drive: 11 plays, 54 yards, 4:31 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 12 

Hubie Graham 3-yd pass from Tino Sunseri (Two­point conversion failed) with 6:36 remaining.Drive: 19 plays, 80 yards, 8:24 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 15, Pittsburgh 12 

Tyler Eifert 6-yd pass from Tommy Rees (Eifert passfrom Rees) with 6:48 remaining.Drive: 11 plays, 85 yards, 4:40 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession passing 


Rees             24-41-216   Sunseri  22-30-165 
rushing 

Wood                     23-94  Graham               21-89 Gray        3-84  Brown        3-12 Rees         5-6  Sunseri        12-6 
receiving 
Eifert                         8-75  Graham         8-43  
Riddick         6-52  Shanahan         6-64  
FloydJones         4-27  Street        3-31  Jones            2-21 2-18  
Toma         1-16  Saddler           1-8  
Wood         1-10  Patton           1-5  

kick returns 


Atkinson      2-60  Patton        1-16 
field goals 
Ruffer         0-1   Harper       2-2 
tackling 
Te’o           10   Gruder    8  
Blanton  7     Williams  7  
Shembo  6  Thomas    6  


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 26, 2011 



Gritting out a win 
Notre Dame struggled for most of the game, stifled offensively by Pittsburgh’s new blitzing schemes. The Irish came through in the fourth quarter, however, and escaped Heinz Field with an ugly 15-12 victory. Junior tight end Tyler Eifert played a key role in the victory, hauling in a team-high eight catches for 75 yards and the pivotal touchdown catch in the fourth quarter. The Notre Dame defense contained Pittsburgh’s dynamic running back Ray Graham and held stiff in the fourth quarter to protect the three-point lead. While it wasn’t a pretty win, it was enough for the Irish to improve to 2-2 before heading to Purdue next weekend. 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 



SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Linebacker Darius Fleming tries to block a pass from Pittsburgh quarterback Tino Sunseri; quarterback Tommy Rees hands the ball off to running back Cierre Wood; Wood stiffarms a Pittsburgh defender; the Irish celebrate after Jonas Gray’s 79-yard touchdown run; Notre Dame celebrates a late sack. 


