
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Mayoral winner promises change 
Buttigieg encourages students, University to become involved in community 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
As Democrat Pete Butti­gieg celebrated an easy vic­tory in South Bend’s mayoral election Tuesday, he called students to take ownership of the city and work with the local government to solve its problems. 
Buttigieg was a favorite since the spring primary and defeated Republican Wayne Curry and Libertar­ian Patrick Farrell. 
“When I entered this race in January, not many people believed that a young man with a funny name who had never held office before could earn the confidence of 


Professors debate most useful major 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
A diverse group of Notre Dame professors gathered Tuesday to defend their respec­tive majors as the most useful tool to rebuild society if the world ended today. 
Before the debate began, the professors agreed all majors have their merit. 
“I don’t believe universities offer frivolous majors,” Shah­riar Mobashery, professor of biochemistry, said. “If civiliza­tion were to end, we need all the disciplines to rebuild it.” 
But Mobashery argued the field of chemistry is important in general because it gives chemists analytical ability and a sense of wonderment. 
Chemistry instills in its stu­dents two distinct abilities — the ability to understand how things are and the ability to change things to improve their qualities. One is discovery and one is inventiveness, he said. 
Michael Hildreth, associate professor of physics, argued the merits of his field and said physics helps mankind at the most basic level, such as pro­ducing flame. Hildreth lit a piece of paper on fire in the de­bate to illustrate his point. 
In addition, he said technol­ogy allows civilization to grow 

see DEBATE/page 5 


Holocaust survivor wishes for kindness 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Not knowing if your fam­ily is dead or alive. Not knowing when your next meal will be. Not knowing whether the next hour of your life will bring you free­dom or death. 
For Aaron Elster, a Holo­caust survivor, these sorts of uncertainties were not only a reality, but all he knew as a child. 
Elster expressed his wish for mankind in a lecture, “The Power to Make a Dif­ference: Healing the World Through Our Everyday 

see HOLOCAUST/page 5 



Hockey players, fans praise new venue 
By CHRIS BARNES 
News Writer 
The Irish hockey team has new ice to chill on this season, and players and fans are praising the new atmosphere. 
The Compton Family Ice Arena opened its doors Oct. 21 with a 5-1 win over Rensselaer. Friday, the team will play their sec­ond home game on the new ice against Alaska. 
“The players love the whole setup of the new rink, which in­cludes an auditorium for team meetings, a weight room, and an equipment room,” said Tim Con­nor, Notre Dame athletics associ­ate director of media relations. “The ice rink [also] contains mes­sage boards and video boards that allow for easy communica­tion within the hockey program.” 
Despite player satisfaction with the $50 million venue, Connor said players are still adapting to one aspect of the arena. 
“[The players] weren’t pre­pared for the atmosphere at the Rensselaer game,” he said. “They claimed it felt like an away game, because they had never had 6,000 fans cheering for them at 

see STADIUM/page 4 

a community at a turning 
point,” Buttigieg said in his 
victory speech. “But togeth­
er we have shown that South 
Bend can transcend old bar­
riers, move beyond old hab­
its and take a chance on a 
new way forward.” 
As he addressed the crowd 
at South Bend’s West Side 
Democratic Club, Buttigieg 
said his victory begins “a 
different kind of campaign.” 
“Now we have to turn 
our attention to a new kind 
of campaign, not a cam­
paign for a candidate, but 
a campaign for our city, a 
campaign to make our city 
stronger and better and saf­
see MAYOR/page 4 


ND science professor dies at 64 
Observer Staff Report 
J. Keith Rigby, Jr., associate professor of civil engineering and geological sciences, died Saturday at his South Bend home. He was 64. 
Rigby,  a paleontologist,  
j  o i  n  e  d  
N o t  r  e  

Dame’s fac­ulty in 1982 and taught courses in phy sical geolog y, historical geology, en­vironmen­tal geology, sedi men­tation and stratigraphy, ac­cording to a University press release. 
During his time as a profes­sor, Rigby won the Teacher of the Year award from Sorin Hall as well as the College of Engineering. He also won the Distinguished Scholar award from the College of Science. 
Rigby also had numerous accomplishments in the field of paleontology. Most notably, in 1997, Rigby led a team of volunteers on a paleontologi­cal expedition in northeast Montana and the group un­earthed a massive fossilized skeleton of a Tyrannosaurus widely regarded as the larg­est such specimen ever found. 
The Salt Lake City native was a graduate of Brigham 
see RIGBY/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Band serves community page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Chorale: From Rome to the Dome page 8 u Braxston Cave out for the season page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, November 9, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE ONE THING THAT YOU COULD NOT LIVE WITHOUT? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Sam Gans Mel Flanagan Katie Heit Jillian Barwick Joe Wirth Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 57 LOW 51 


Anna Morton  Christina Girardi  Derek Novacek  Ginny Benz  Matt Hickey  Princely Muro  
freshman  senior  junior  senior  sophomore  sophomore  
Howard  Le Mans  Dillion  Howard  Morrissey  Morrissey  
“Hulu.”  “My sketchbook.”  “Family.”  “The Internet.”  “My Mobros.”  “Lotion.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Agents obtain military flare in mail at Chicago O’Hare 
CHICAGO — Federal agents at Chicago’s O’Hare Airport averted “a potential catastrophic event” when they stopped a package con­taining a live military flare from being loaded onto a flight to Japan, a federal agency said on Monday. 
The Customs and Border Protection said the Vietnam War-era device, identified as an M49A1 phosphorous trip flare, was found in the mail as it was passing through the busy facility on Thurs­day. 
The device, which burns at a temperature of 5,000 de­grees Fahrenheit, had been listed on the shipping mani­fest as a “military training dummie”, the agency said. 
Bomb experts from the Chicago Police Department determined the package contained an incendiary device and rendered it safe. The case is under investiga­tion. The Customs and Bor­der Protection agency said agents did not believe there was any intent to harm. 
At wife’s behest, man loses 198 lbs. since Jan. 
FULTON, N.Y. — When Jay Wornick’s wife said they both should lose some weight as a New Year’s reso­lution, he took up the chal­lenge. Ten months later, he’s 200 pounds lighter. 
Wornick tells the Post-Standard of Syracuse that he weighed 366 pounds on Jan. 1, when his wife issued the challenge. As of Monday, he was down to 168 pounds. That’s a 198-pound weight loss in a little more than 10 months. 
The 30-year-old father of three says his typical dai­ly meals used to include a 20-ounce steak and three potatoes washed down with a 12-pack of soda. 
Now he eats fruits, vegeta­bles and lean meats, drinks water and works out six days a week at the YMCA near the family’s home in Fulton in central New York. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Stop by the Comptom Family Ice Arena for an open house today from 12 to 3 p.m. to see the brand new facility. Staff will be on hand to answer any ques­tions. The visit is open to Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary’s faculty and staff. 
This evening from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. there will be a lecture titled, “Latin Re­gifugium and a Roman Priestly Crisis.” The lecture will be held in the Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. Professor Roger Woodard from University at Buffalo will be speaking. 
There is a panel discus­sion about the Andy Warhol and Merce Cunningham Collaborations from 5 to 7 p.m. tonight at the Snite Museum of Art. 
Tonight from 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m. there is a Slavery Foot­print Awareness Activity in the Dooley Room of LaFor­tune Student Center. The group will challenge stu­dents to see how pervasive modern-day slavery is. This event is cosponsered by the Center for Social Concerns and the Ford Family Pro­gram in Human Develop­ment & Solidarity. 
Winner of the 2011 Amer­ican Poetry Review/Hon­ickman First Book Prize, Nathaniel Perry will be reading from his collection, “Nine Acres,” tonight at the Hammes Bookstore. The reading begins at 7:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 







HIGH 44 LOW 31 
HIGH 48 LOW 38 
HIGH 56 LOW 48 
HIGH 58 LOW 51 
Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Band gives back to community 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
Though there is no service requirement for members of the Notre Dame Band, around 20 to 40 students make time to engage in service in the South Bend community each week. 
Senior Michael Schwind, band president, volunteers with the Salvation Army of St. Joseph County’s “BandLink” program, which offers music and band instruction to local parochial schools that may not have the means to offer such programs. 
Schwind said the young boy he tutors in the program en­joys learning to play instru­ment. 
“[My student] gets so ex-or future even. I am glad that cited to be able to learn and I can be a part of shaping that to take his trumpet home and foundation.” practice,” he said. “I am able In addition, band mem­to guide him and help him get bers tutor children in four 


better while still having fun.” 
Schwind said working with the chil­dren is ben­eficial for him as well. 
“It is re­warding to take time out of my day 
“Getting involved in music can shape one’s college life or future even. I am glad that I can be a part of shaping that foundation.” 
Samantha Matthew band service commissioner 
South Bend elementa ­ry schools twice a week and host a holi­day concert with their students, Schwind said. 
Some band mem­
to help and see how the kids progress,” he said. 
Junior Samantha Matthew, band service commissioner, said she sees an impact on the children in the “BandLink” program. 
“These programs give the kids something to look forward to and something to continue for a very long time,” Matthew said. “Getting involved in mu­sic can shape one’s college life bers also participate in game watches with the sisters of Saint Mary’s convent for at least one away game during the season. Throughout the game, the members play con­certs for the sisters, Matthew said. 
During the holiday season, some members of the band will add volunteer activity to their schedules. 
Matthew also said the band will serve food at the South Bend Center for the Homeless during the Thanksgiving sea­son, and the band will par­ticipate in the “Adopt a Fam­ily” program at the Salvation Army during Christmas. 
The program entails buying Christmas gifts for children and families who can’t afford them. This year, the band will “adopt” 17 children, Matthew said. 
“We get a note-card with the child’s name, size and age,” she said. “We buy Christmas gifts with the money that the band usually raises. My [band] section usually tries to provide a winter coat or shoes which would make a world of difference for a little kid.” 
Assistant Band Director Matt Merten originally start­ed the band’s service pro­grams, but the programs are student-run and completely voluntary, Schwind said. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group contemplates merging with Senate 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representa­tives (COR) held a preliminary discussion Tuesday regarding streamlining student govern­ment by fusing the Council with the Student Senate. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said the restruc­turing would allow greater interaction between the poli­cy and programming sides of student government. 
“There are many parts of the Student Union that are duplicative or have changed over time in ways that I don’t think are as transparent or accessible to students as they should be,” he said. “[The merge] would give all wings of Student Union a voice in the policy making, and there would be the opportunity for the whole group to come to­gether and interact.” 
Oversight chair Ben Noe said the tentative change would eliminate the Council and add new positions to the Student Senate. 
“It’s being considered that the voting members of COR would be infused into Senate as voting members of Sen­ate,” he said. “There are 15 voting members of COR, and five are already voting mem­bers of Senate. So, we’re talk­ing about adding 10 new vot­ing members to Senate.” 
Noe said a major problem with the current Senate is its limited representation, es­pecially in regard to seniors and off-campus students. Each constituency currently has one voting member. 
“Just taking one group, like off-campus students, the way Senate is structured right now, is in no way fair to off-campus students,” Noe said. 
Senior class president Anne Huntington said the fusion — which would create a senate seat for each class president 
— would allow the presidents to more holistically serve their classes. 
“I feel like the class presi­dents are all pretty capable people,” she said. “We’re able to do more [than program­ming].” 
Gender Issues Committee chair Katie Rose said she is concerned the additional Sen­ate members would give add­ed weight to certain groups’ votes. 
“If we have a representa­tive from every dorm, and a rep from all the main parts of COR, aren’t we sort of double counting certain votes?” she said. 
Sophomore class presi­dent Nicholas Schilling said student leaders’ roles were based on constituency rather than background. 
“There’s a difference be­tween a sophomore represen­tative from Keough and the sophomore class president who also lives in Keough,” he said. 
Chief of staff Claire Sokas said the change would not create more overlap between policy and programming bod­ies, but would instead facili­tate greater collaboration. 
“The idea that there is a line [between the two roles] — I don’t necessarily agree,” she said. “I think [the restruc­turing] is more about giving everyone an opportunity to work together.” 
Student body vice presi­dent Brett Rocheleau said the measure would not perfect student government at Notre Dame, but he was confident it would improve its representa­tiveness. 
“I don’t think with this new system we’ll reach every student, but I don’t believe there’s a system that could,” he said. “I believe fusing the two will represent more stu­dents.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, November 9, 2011 
Mayor 
continued from page 1 
er and cleaner,” he said. 
Buttigieg said an immedi­ate focus would be economic development. 
“We are going to gather the leadership of this community to deliver a new economic direction, building on our greatest strengths true to our tradition but looking for new sources of wealth and income and prosperity,” he said. “We must take new risks and cre­ate new opportunities. We must, we can, we will, and it all starts tonight.” 
Notre Dame and its students can play a critical role in the city’s development, Buttigieg told The Observer. 
“I really need students to get involved,” he said. “In order for our city to move forward, we need to harness the brain power and the energy and the labor of Notre Dame students who should really feel owner­ship of this city, whether they grew up here or not.” 
Buttigieg said the Univer­sity’s recent efforts to engage with the local community are a step in the right direction. 
“It starts one-on-one,” But­tigieg said. “I’m going to be on campus frequently talking about some of the ways we can work together, and I’m going to be as receptive as I can be to student perspec­tives and University perspec­tives. We really need each other to succeed. One of the things I love about my timing is that the University has this newfound interest in engag­ing with the city, and I can’t wait to take them up on that.” 
While the College Republi­cans Club said it did not con­tribute to Curry’s campaign, many Notre Dame students worked with Buttigieg lead­ing up to his election. 
Senior Matt LaFortune worked on Buttigieg’s staff as the field director for his campaign. He worked with Congressman Joe Donnelly’s campaign efforts last year and joined the Buttigieg cam­paign in August. 
“I helped organize the vol­unteer activities because we had a lot of volunteers inter­ested in helping with Pete’s campaign,” LaFortune said. 
LaFortune, a South Bend native, said his responsibili­ties included organizing vol­unteers as they placed calls and canvased throughout the city. 
“The best part was being able to get to know a guy like Pete,” LaFortune said. “He is really going to bring a lot of change to South Bend … Being an ND student and also being from South Bend, I wanted to see a fresh start for this city, and I think Pete is going to do that.” 
A group of students from College Democrats were also active in the campaign ef­forts. Club members helped with phone calls and door-to­door campaign visits. 
College Democrats presi­dent Mike O’Brien said Butti­gieg visited club meetings on several occasions, including one of the club’s first meet­ings of the year, to talk about the November election. 
“Being the mayor is a tough job, but his demeanor is one that, as it showed tonight, attracted a lot of people,” O’Brien said. “He has a lot of energy.” 
O’Brien said Buttigieg’s character throughout the campaign was an example for his own goals in politics. 
“Sometimes people talk about connections or money being the key to getting into politics,” O’Brien said. “Pete shows that being really pas­sionate and having a lot of en­ergy is actually what matters … if you are passionate and willing to make a difference, that shows through in your demeanor.” 
Sophomore Maria Wilson, a College Democrats member, said she helped with canvas­ing efforts for the Buttigieg campaign. 
“I think it is important to foster a great relationship with the community, and I think Pete will be a great mayor,” Wilson said. 
Even though Wilson is a not a native of South Bend, she said local politics should still matter to students on cam­pus. 
“I don’t think you can look at national politics or inter­national politics if you don’t look at local politics too,” she said. “The local government affects us in our day-to-day lives.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Stadium 
continued from page 1 
the Joyce Center due to limited seating.” 
Freshman Daniel Wiegandt said the fans he sat amongst were what made his first Notre Dame hockey experience feel more professional. 
“The Compton Family Ice Arena had a professional feel that I’ve experienced in the past at NHL [National Hockey League] games,” Wiegandt said. “The crowd against Rensselaer [resembled] the student section at football games, where stu­dents alternate between cheer­ing together and shouting indi­vidually.” 
In addition to its professional feel, freshman Carson Running said the new setup allows for a more engaging hockey experi­ence from the stands. 
“While watching the game, I felt as though I was part of the action and had an easy time keeping up with the pace of play,” Running said. “The loud cheering of the students testi­fied to the ease with which one could follow every movement on the ice.” 


Fan accommodation and play­er satisfaction is a goal of the arena staff, Connor said. 
“The staff is working on find­ing the ideal temperature and level of lighting that will benefit the players on the ice and make the fans as comfortable as pos­sible,” Connor said. 
However, Running said more aspects of the stadium need at­tention. 
“The stadium was smaller than I expected,” Running said. “I had a difficult time hearing the announcer’s voice, which pre­vented me from gaining infor­mation after goals were scored and penalties were called.” 
Despite the complaints, the new arena left fans wanting more Irish hockey. 
“[The Rensselaer game was] the most fun I’ve ever had at a hockey game, and I plan on go­ing to another one really soon,” Wiegandt said. 
Contact Chris Barnes at cbarnes4@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
and thrive, and increasing technological progress has ac­celerated due to discoveries in the physics realm. 
Hildreth said physics contributed to the devel­opment of the transistor that enabled the creation of computer chips, like those found in the iPhone. 
In re­sponse, Mo­bashery said chemi sts inspire the very essence of an iPhone. 
“From the screen domi­nating the front of the phone, which row, I would be in a great deal of trouble,” he said. “I’m not very practical, my students aren’t very practical … PLS doesn’t concern itself with the question of how to stay alive, rather we’re concerned with the question of how to live well. If we face the end of civi­
“I’m not very practical, my students aren’t very practical ... PLS doesn’t concern itself with the question of how to stay alive, rather we’re concerned with the question of how to live well If we face the end of civilization, we must not only discover how to stay alive, but how to live well.” 
Robert Goulding associate professor Program of Liberal Studies 
lization, we must not only discover how to stay alive, but how to live well.” 
Business law profes­sor Jamie O’Brien fo­cused on food as a hu­man neces­sity and said accounting helps people obtain food. 
“How many of you ate today?” he said. “How many of you think you’re going grounded his argument for theology on a letter he found earlier in his office. 
“What if every single person is precious to God?” he said, citing the letter. “Wouldn’t it be cool if people discov­ered this God who cared so much that he cried for them? Wouldn’t it be hopeful having this knowledge? 
“I’m going to pursue the study of the real light of the world.” 
Before Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle announced the winner, an­thropology professor James McKenna ended the debate by advising students to pursue their passions and reminding them about the importance of approaching the problems and questions of civilization through a comprehensive ap­proach. 
“The best science is an in­clusive one, and moreover, they are all interdependent,” McKenna said. “You will make your greatest contributions to humans by finding out what you love.” 
In the end, the student au­dience chose Reynolds as the winner of the debate. 
In his victory speech, Reyn­olds said he couldn’t take all the credit. 
“If you permit me to make a triumphal decree, I would simply like to thank the stu­dent who wrote the letter,” he said. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 
Holocaust 
continued from page 1 
Lives,” which took place at Saint Mary’s on Tuesday. 
“I want you to be kind to one another,” he said. “That is not advice. That is my wish.” 
Elster, who also co-authored “I Still See Her Haunting Eyes: The Holocaust and Hidden Child Aaron Elster,” said it is important to look to the past to learn for the future. 
He said the popular expres­sion “sticks and stones may hurt my bones, but words and names will never hurt me” is not true. 
“Words hurt more than phys­ical pain,” he said.  “The names you are called and harmful words that are said to 
you stay with “The names you are Throughout you until called and harmful his talk, El-adulthood . words that are said to ster encour­[It’s] 65 years you stay with you until aged people later, and I adulthood. [It’s] 65 years to think be-still hear the later, and I still hear fore they act, names I was speak only 
the names I was called. 
called. I still gentle words 
I still remember feeling 
remember and perform 
like I was not human.” 
feeling like I small acts of was not hu-kindness. man.” Aaron Elster “We all 
Certain Holocaust survivor have the ca-
in the ghetto, Elster said he struggled to make sense of all of the changes and deaths he was experiencing. 
“I don’t want to die,” he said. “I’m scared of death. Why did I have to be a Jew? Where was God? How can He let this hap­pen? Is there even a God?” 
He said his struggle with God and religion only grew stron­ger after life in the ghetto. 
When he was 10, he ran away from the ghetto and spent months sleeping in the forests and fields surrounding the small Polish town that used to be his home. Eventually, a family friend agreed to hide him from the Nazis. The next two years of Elster’s life were spent living in a tiny attic, where he lacked proper food, companionship and sanitary living condi­tions, he said. 
is layer upon layer of chemi­cals helping to produce the images you see, to the elec­tronic elements critical to the phone’s proper functioning, everything has been influ­enced by the hands of a chem­ist” Mobashery said. 
Robert Goulding of the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies (PLS) said his major would view the end of the world a little differ­ently. 
“If civilization ended tomor­to eat tomorrow? That’s why you need accounting. Pretend you have 20 quarters in your pocket and you go through the drive-through of McDon­alds and order a Big Mac. Say it costs $3.50. Do you have enough? Do you have enough to consume today and have some money left over for to­morrow?” 
Associate professor Gabriel Reynolds, a faculty member in the Department of Theology, images and sights never leave one’s memory, Elster said. 
He said he can still recall walking through the ghetto as a young boy of 7 or 8 and see­ing the bodies of the dead lay­ing on the streets. The dead, which consisted of men, wom­en and children, are a sight that will never fade with time. 
“It’s been over 65 years and some things never go away,” he said. “That scene [of the dead] stays with you forever. You get used to certain atrocities, but never any that affect children.” 
Throughout his years living pacity to help 
one another in small ways, whether it is through small actions, kind words or acceptance,” he said. 
Junior Bridgett Fey said she agreed with Elster that small acts can make a big difference. 
“Elster just wants us to be kind and stand up,” she said. “None of us can imagine the horrors he experienced, but we can learn from the history of it all and secure a better fu­ture if we take away something from it.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

Rigby 
continued from page 1 
Young University and earned master’s and doctoral degrees in geology from Columbia Uni­versity. 
He is survived by his wife, Susan, and six children. 
Visitation will be held Friday from 4 to 8 p.m. at Welsheimer Family Funeral Home in South Bend, and one hour prior to the funeral service, which will take place Saturday at 11 
a.m. at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints in Mishawaka. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 9, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Practice equality 
For those of you who have grown tired of the cookie-cutter criticisms lev­eled at on-campus living, fear not. I do have a bone to pick with dorm life, but I will abstain from attacking parietals, single-sex dorms or any number of easier Cory Bernard targets. Rather, my complaint centers Sports Writer on musical prac­tice spaces in dorms. Or rather, lack thereof. 
This complaint is rooted in an experi­ence I had one sunny day in the spring of 2010, when student band Toes on the Nose held its inaugural practice in preparation for the upcoming Battle of the Bands at Legends. As the drum­mer, I was envious of my three band mates. They carried their guitars and amps effortlessly to the practice space and after locating an outlet were ready to play. Two of them even hailed from Hawaii and still managed to bring their instruments to school. Even if I wasn’t a plane flight away from South Bend, there’s no way I would consider fitting my kit into an already cramped dorm room. 
I had no other option but to rely on the music department’s willingness to let a stranger use their drums. Unfortu­nately, we drank from this well one too many times. No longer do I feel comfort­able slinking around Ricci, hoping for an unattended room with some un­locked percussion instruments. 
As a freshman, this standoffishness bothered me. I was no novice. I was not going to break heads or crack cymbals. How could Notre Dame’s music depart­ment be so stingy with their equip­ment? 
I have come to realize, however, that my anger was misplaced. The music department, like the athletic depart­ment, has a right to deny us common folk from using its equipment. Good thing we have The Rock, Rolfs and a multitude of residence halls with exer­cise rooms. 
If I want to shoot some hoops, I don’t have to work around Mike Brey’s practice schedule. If I want to pump some iron, I don’t have to wait for the football team to conclude their workout. The same cannot be said for musical pursuits. 
I understand the need for so many spaces to exercise. Notre Dame’s stu­dent body is fit, athletic and competi­tive. The weight room in Keough, as I imagine is the case with any of the other dorm workout spaces, is frequent­ly occupied. 
That said, Notre Dame’s student body is also musically talented. Hundreds participate in various instrumental and vocal ensembles. Many more play in student bands. Heck, we even produced most of Umphrey’s McGee. 
Buying a squat rack, elliptical and set of dumbbells costs more than simply providing an empty room for musical practice. How hard would it be for dorms to set aside some space in the basement for people to jam? Who knows, another Umphrey’s could emerge. 
Notre Dame possesses the talent to be a vibrant musical community. I have seen it firsthand. All it needs to do is foster this talent. 
Residence hall practice spaces are the first step. 
Contact Cory Bernard at      cbernard@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Brotherly love 
I am writing in response to the Nov. 8 article entitled “The Bro Code” by Dr. G. David Moss. I believe Dr. Moss has used his opinion to shape the facts, rather than the other way around. He has assumed that the code of the younger generation is immoral simply because it is not his own. With all due respect, Dr. Moss condemns that which he clearly does not under­stand. 
Dr. Moss would have us believe that the Bro Code is simply the latest in a series of misogynistic college traditions, elaborating that it centers around meaningless and promiscu­ous sex. He further states that the Bro Code allows for the formation of a “circle of coolness” that is ultimately exclusive, creating a destructive environment of cliques and social stagnation. These arguments are all supported by a list of rules that Dr. Moss, without evidence or support, has determined are fundamental to any Bro Code. 
I must insist that Dr. Moss does not understand the Bro Code and has confused correlation and causa­tion. The Bro Code does not cause or contribute to promiscuity or social exclusion on campus, it limits them. To support this, I would like to dem­onstrate the most important rule from the New York Times Bestseller “The Bro Code,” a rule which Dr. Moss incorrectly identified as an unimport­ant corollary: “Bros before hoes.” 
On the surface this statement ap­pears misogynistic, but at its core it establishes principles the GRC should embrace wholeheartedly. Namely, that long-term friendships are far more valuable than one-night stands. This is the heart of the Bro Code: brotherhood. The Bro Code says noth­ing about putting people down or excluding the un-cool. It says instead that one should dedicate himself to helping out his bros, because one knows they would do the same for him. 
I would like to bring one final aspect of the Bro Code to Dr. Moss’s attention, namely: “There is no law that prohibits a woman from being a Bro.” Dr. Moss can condemn if he’d like. Me? I’ll stick with my bros. 
Daniel Sullivan 
freshman St. Edward’s Hall Nov. 8 
A remedy for rallies 
I read Andrew Romano’s letter, “Bring back the rallies” (Nov. 8), and I have to agree with him that the pep rallies are not that fun to go to, and I personally don’t try very hard to go to them. However I disagree with his belief that the location of the pep rally is a major factor. 
Yes, the pep rallies at Irish Green are boring, but so were the pep ral­lies in the JACC. In fact, in 2008, Sorin College boycotted the JACC rallies because they were so dull and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
scripted. The administration tried to change rallies as a response, but it didn’t really help much, as most people can see. 
You see, all we need to bring the rallies back is win football games. And we can’t just win any football games: We need to beat USC and Michigan on a regular basis, we need to knock off top-tier teams and most importantly, we need to play in and win BSC bowl games. 
Yes, we still have our traditions, and that’s great. I love the game day experience, and will really miss it next year. However, our football team has been stagnating for 15 years, and it’s starting to show in the pep rallies. It’s a simple fix: Win football games and the pep rallies will be awesome! 
Kevin Eller 
senior 
Stanford Hall 
Nov. 8 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.” 
George Bernard Shaw Irish dramatist 

WEEKLY POLL 
What’s the best part of Lafun? 
Starbucks Computer lounge Subway The basement 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 

Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
From scavengers to sovereigns 
Roughly 300 years before the birth of Christ, in a Corinthian alley, two very different interpretations of the legacy of Socrates came face to face. 
“I am Alexander, King of Macedon,” said one of them. He had, until four years earlier, been the pupil of Aristo­tle, who had been the pupil of Plato, who had been the pupil of Socrates. Aristotle had taught Alexander — along­side his companions, Dan Sportiello the men who would become his gener-Bound als — to see in the Variables world not particu­lars bearing changing relations to one another but rather the eternal law that governs them. Aristotle taught Alex­ander to see, that is, not a chaos but rather a cosmos — a world in which justice ruled not just men but even the stars. 

It seems this gave him ideas. Within 12 years, Alexander would be dead. But within 10, he would conquer the known world and crown himself the King of Kings, making his vision of brotherhood among all men, whether Greek or Persian — at its heart, a deeply Platonic vision — a reality. His visit to Corinth, where he won the command of the Greek forces arrayed against Persia, was merely the first step toward this end. 
But Platonism was not the only in­terpretation of the legacy of Socrates: Living in Corinth — specifically, it seems, in a barrel lying in an alley — was Diogenes, who had been the pupil of Antisthenes, who had also been the pupil of Socrates. Diogenes rep­resented Cynicism — that is, Dogism, so called because he, well, lived like a dog: He slept in the street owning nothing and eating only what scraps he could find as a protest, it seems, against the injustice of the hypocritical society in which he found himself. 
He was not, even for a King, some­one to miss. “I am Alexander, King of Macedon,” the aspiring Platonist said to Diogenes. “What can I do for you?” 
“You can get out of my light,” said Diogenes. 
Something like this story may well be true. But its truth or falsity is beside the point: The story illustrates something larger than itself. 
The world is periodically given great philosophers — men who synthesize the apparently contradictory insights of their predecessors and employ those insights to challenge the exist­ing moral, cultural, and political order. But the students of each great philoso­pher face a choice: What does it mean to be faithful to the challenge of their master? 
Some — call them Platonists — con­clude that they have a duty to work within the system in order to make the vision of their teacher a reality. 
But others conclude such change within the system is impossible — and, indeed, any attempt at change within the system will mire one in complic­ity with it. Such others — call them Cynics — conclude they have a duty to define themselves in radical opposition to the system as it is—at which point the only choice is between revolution and death. 
This is a tension that replays itself throughout the history of philoso­phy: Consider, for example, Hegel and Nietzsche — two philosophers repre­senting very different interpretations of the legacy of Kant. Socrates himself 
—
 at least as he is depicted in Plato’s Republic — seems to wrestle with this tension on just about every page. “The things we have said about the city and the regime are not in every way prayers,” he states, “they are hard but in a way possible” — specifically, if “the true philosophers, either one or more, come to power in a city.” 

Far from heralding the reign of Alex­ander, however, Socrates soon subverts his own words: A hypocritical society is such that no opinion, especially a true one, could ever come to govern it 

—
 for such a society hears all argu­ment as the interplay of power and will therefore hear an argument to the contrary as just another power play. 


Socrates expresses this worry in his metaphor of society as a ship: “They praise and call ‘skilled sailor,’ ‘pilot’ and ‘knower of the ship’s business’ the man who is clever at figuring out how they will get the rule, either by per­suading or by forcing the shipowner, while the man who is not of this sort they blame as useless … [for] they don’t suppose it’s possible to acquire the art and practice of how one can get hold of the helm whether the others wish it or not, and at the same time to acquire the pilot’s skill.” A sailor who argues the ship is sailing in circles is unlikely to be effective if those at the helm hear his talk of destinations as mere jockeying for rank. The only solu­tion is for the sailor to struggle for the helm himself — but this is just for him to become like them. 
Is it worth it? One’s answer will decide as to what kind of philosopher one will live — and die — like. The question, in the meantime, waits in the breast of each of us. 
“If I were not Alexander, I would be Diogenes,” said the aspiring King of Kings. Perhaps Diogenes reached a parallel conclusion. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Some traditions aren’t worth keeping 
The Notre Dame student body is composed of essen­tially good, intelligent, compassionate and generous people who want to make a positive difference in the world. Unfortunately, we don’t always act in appropri­ate ways. One particular decision that has caused a lot of hurt is the “Zahm’s gay” chant. It goes, “Ole, ole, ole, ole, Zahm’s gay, Zahm’s gay!” This chant is hateful and intolerant toward the gay students at Notre Dame, and toward gay people everywhere. 
Last fall, my cousin, then a junior in high school, visited me to check out Notre Dame. Coincidentally, it was the week that he decided to come out as gay to our entire family and myself. Our family was very support­ive, but he was relieved to get away for the weekend. 
However, to my sadness and humiliation, the Notre Dame student body decided to showcase its intolerance at the game. The drunk boys behind us shouted out gay slurs for hours. As if that wasn’t bad enough, halfway through the game a large group of students began singing, “Ole, ole ole ole, Zahm’s gay, Zahm’s gay!” As I cringed in my seat, my cousin patted me on the back. “It’s ok,” he said, “I’m used to it.” Later that evening, as we headed into an anonymous boy’s dorm, two boys got in the elevator with us. One of them told the other that his roommate had asked him to get him a comb when he went to the grocery store. “That’s so f***ing gay!” they laughed. Would it never cease? 
I felt completely sickened by the end of the weekend. I love Notre Dame with all my heart, and I had to tell my beloved cousin that he definitely should not come here. He kindly told me he wasn’t going to apply because of the weather, but why would he ever want to come to a school that showed such intolerance? Notre Dame students, please stop this “tradition.” 
Christina LaBarge 
senior Breen Phillips Hall Nov. 1 
UWIRE 
Employees shouldn’t have to worry about Facebook free speech 
In the age of social media, students are constant­ly warned about what they post on their Facebook page or Twitter account, as prospective employ­ers may be reading. For those who have jobs, it is considered bad form to trash talk one’s employer online, even on private pages bosses can’t see. Michael 
Apple, in particular, has be-Hardcastle come notorious for its zero-toler­ance policy on negative employee The Oracle remarks. An Apple employee in the U.K. was fired for “gross misconduct” after talk­ing bad about Apple on his private Facebook page. 
Such actions, however extreme, are understand­able on the part of companies who want to present the right public image. However, businesses go too far when they penalize employees for stating opin­ions wholly unrelated to their jobs. 
Adrian Smith, a property manager in England, was demoted and received a 40 percent pay cut after posting about gay marriage on his personal Facebook page, which only his friends could read. 
Commenting on a BBC News Online story about plans to allow gay marriage ceremonies in British churches, Smith wrote, “If the state wants to offer civil marriages to the same sex, then that is up to the state, but the state shouldn’t impose its rules on places of faith and conscience,” according to BBC News. 
He also wrote, “The Bible is quite specific that marriage is for men and women.” 
Smith’s comments can hardly be classified as hate speech. He was simply stating his personal view on an issue that has little to do with Trafford Hous­ing Trust (THT), the company he works for. A THT spokeswoman said to BBC News, “Mr. Smith was disciplined for his breach of company policy. The trust made no comment about any personal beliefs that he holds.” 
However, the demotion seems entirely motivated by a difference in personal beliefs. It is unreason­able for employers to expect all employees to hold the same, non-work-related opinions, and employ­ees should not be penalized for voicing their opin­ions, even if they’re not the most popular ones. 
Here in America, where freedom of speech and belief should be more clearly established, a New Jersey school teacher grabbed national headlines for calling homosexuality a “sin” that “breeds like cancer” on her Facebook page last month, accord­ing to the New Jersey Star-Ledger. 
While the teacher, Viki Knox, was writing about a school display in honor of Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender History Month, her comments were not direct criticism of the school and represent her personal religious beliefs. 
The controversy begs the question of whether freedom of belief or political correctness is more important. Some have labeled Knox’s comments as hate speech and called for her termination. How­ever, her personal beliefs should have nothing to do with her ability to teach. 
The American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey issued a statement in Knox’s defense, pointing out her free speech rights. 
While employees should always watch what they say online, they should be allowed to express per­sonal opinions without fear of repercussions. 
This article first appeared in the Nov. 8 edition of The Oracle, the daily publication serving the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 9, 2011 

CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
ND Chorale’s concerts over the years have brought people together from all over to appreciate music: students, alumni, family, friends — even strangers in Vatican City taking pictures like paparazzi. 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale, the Univer­sity’s official concert choir, performs often on cam­pus, but has also toured throughout the United States and has journeyed to France, Germany, Austria and New Zealand. Last semester after graduation, the Chorale traveled to Italy for their international tour. 
The morning after arriving in Rome, the Chorale had a unique opportunity to sing “Christe qui lux es et dies” for Pope Benedict XVI at the General Papal Audience of 100,00 people. Afterward, they toured Vatican Museums, the Sistine Chapel, St. Peter’s Ba­silica, as well as many other churches and sites of ancient and Christian Rome. 
“The Italy Pilgrimage was one of the highlights of my Notre Dame experience,” said Stephen Santay, president of Chorale during the 2010-2011 school year. “Singing at the Pope’s general audience was an amazing, once in a lifetime experience I will never forget.” 
The Chorale performed a concert at the Church of St. Ignatius in Rome and sang for Solemn Mass at St. Peter’s Basilica. The Italian tour also included a full-day excursion to Florence and a full day touring the hills of Assisi, as well as a concert at the Basilica Su-
LAUREN CHVAL 
Scene Writer 
I was desperate for “Order of the Phoenix” by the time it came out, and I wasn’t the only one. In the three years it took J.K. Rowling to pen her fifth and longest installment, Warner Brothers had popped out the first two films. Pottermania exploded to depths neither Rowling nor her original fans could have imagined. 
In those same three years, my parents had moved us from our childhood home in Chicago to Wash­ington, D.C., right on the brink of Sept. 11, anthrax and the Beltway sniper attacks. We spent two years in the nation’s capital before my mother finished up her stint at the National Science Foundation and got a job in Missouri. 
The first year in D.C. was not kind to me. If I had been shy and awkward originally, being thrust into a new elementary school crippled me socially. I didn’t even make friends until our second year, and, just as I did, it was time to move again. 
My dad packed up our minivan and drove it off with my brothers, leaving my mother and me be-
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
periore di San Francesco to a full audience. 
“The trip took countless hours of preparation,” San­tay said, but he believed it was completely worth it. 
“During my sophomore year,” he continued, “I was the treasurer of Chorale and worked to set money aside for the next international tour. Over the next 

two years, the Italy Tour would take shape, the Cho­rale was exceling at learning more and more difficult music, and the group continued to fundraise so that the tour could be affordable for the entire group.” 
This year’s domestic tour throughout the United States in January will consist of free concerts in the Southeastern U.S., namely Louisville, Knoxville, At­lanta, Charleston, Roanoke and Pittsburgh. 
This weekend, the Chorale, the University’s official 
hind for my sixth grade graduation. I hadn’t want­ed to miss it. I sat through the ceremony, glad to be there, but as we were leaving, I could hear all of my classmates discussing which middle school they were going to next year, what they would be do­ing all summer, how they were going to stay friends forever. I cried in the car, and my mother — bless her — said nothing because there was nothing to say.
 We went to her office to pack her things. I played on an extra computer and listened to the radio as I always did when we were there. I thought about the fact that “Phoenix” was coming out the next day and Mom had agreed to go with me to buy it before we boarded our plane. I tried to let that excitement fill me until it swallowed me whole as it had with the last book. 
But I couldn’t quite get there. I thought about the plane ticket with my name on it stashed in my moth­er’s bag, and I wouldn’t let Harry solve my problems like he did when I was seven. It had been so easy to escape to Hogwarts when I had first discovered it, but my problems were more complex now. They seemed too big for Harry. 
concert choir, will be performing their annual fall concert, titled “God, Country, Notre Dame.” The pro­gram will include sacred works spanning from the 1200s to the 1800s, featuring composers like Bruck­ner, Bach, Monteverdi and Stravinsky. 
Each semester, the University of Notre Dame Cho­rale brings classics of the choral literature to campus in refreshingly skillful performances. With a rep­ertoire ranging from Renaissance motets to works written by living composers, the Chorale exhibits an impressive range of styles and a high level of artistry. 
In addition to favorite patriotic American songs, the Chorale will also perform beloved school songs, including a song new to their repertoire, “On Down the Line.” 
This weekend also marks one of the first Chorale Alumni Reunions. Alumni members of the Chorale have been invited back to campus to attend the Fri­day concert and to attend a Maryland game watch with the Chorale. 
Other events scheduled for returning alumni in­clude rehearsing the school songs with the Chorale before the concert, joining the Chorale to sing school songs at the end of the concert, a tour of the Debarto­lo Performing Arts Center, a rehearsal of the Messiah choruses in Leighton Concert Hall, a demonstration of the Fritts Baroque organ Neapolitan 1680 mean-tone organ in Reyes Organ Hall and a viewing of vid­eos from the Chorale’s concerts in Italy. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
“…It looks like everyone is down here at Barnes and Noble waiting for the next Harry Potter book to be out at midnight!” the radio buzzed. “It’s a party with costumes, food, and games. You don’t want to miss this…” 
I turned to stare at the radio. You could get the book at midnight?! 
I gave my mother a sideways look as she packed up her office. She hadn’t noticed the radio an­nouncement. 
“Mom?” I said in my most pitiful voice. 
“Yes?” she answered distractedly, thumbing through files. When I didn’t say anything she looked up, saw my sad, little face and softened. 
“What? What are you about to ask me?” 
“Can we got get Harry Potter Five at midnight?” 
She gave me a hard look, no doubt sizing up how many points this would win her and if that meant fewer tears on the plane tomorrow. 
“I’ll think about it.” 
See Part Two in tomorrow’s Observer. 
Contact Lauren Chval at lchval@nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 9, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Paterno’s time to go 
Over the past year, the NCAA has faced a firestorm of alleged impropriety that has damaged the reputation of a game that is intended to exemplify purity in amateur athletics. 
Former Auburn quarter­back Cam Newton was in­vestigated when it was revea led that his fa­ther tried to offer his services to the high­est bidder when he transferred from Flori­da. 
The team Auburn beat in the national champion­ship last year, Oregon, has been tied to scouting service owner Willie Lyles, who may have been more influential in steering players toward the Ducks than in providing le­gitimate recruiting services. 
Ohio State and Jim Tressel parted ways due to his cover-up of NCAA sanctions commit­ted by some of the Buckeyes’ most high-profile athletes. 
Over the summer, Yahoo! Sports released an investi­gation that implicated Mi­ami booster Nevin Shapiro in committing serious NCAA violations, including payment and bounties for injuring players. 
As serious as those poten­tial NCAA misdeeds are, they don’t exist in the same strato­sphere as what is going on at Penn State right now. 
The storied college football program is implicated in a sex scandal, and its subsequent cover-up, as it now seems that an oversized ego hides behind the oversized glasses of an 
84-year-old head  coach  and  
living legend.  
Nittany  Lions  coach  Joe  

Paterno was approached in 2002 after a graduate assis­tant allegedly witnessed for­mer defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky molesting a 10-year-old. Paterno reported the incident to athletic direc­tor Tim Curley, who did noth­ing with it. But Paterno did everything correctly, right? After all, he took the issue to his “superior” (though it’s been obvious for quite some time that Paterno has no su­perior at Penn State). 
Not in the least. 
It says a lot more about the character of Paterno, a par-ent and grandparent, that he did not follow-up with Curley or report the incident to authorities than any one of his Division I-record 409 wins or two national cham­pionships do. 

Some people will argue that Paterno abided by the law — and he probably did — by reporting it to Curley. But outside of a legal obligation, he had a moral obligation to ensure that an investigation took place. He failed in that regard, and still allowed Sandusky to have an office in the Penn State football 
facility and an unofficial 
role with the program until 
recently. Sandusky’s only 
punishment was a ban from 
bringing children to Penn 
State’s facilities. Accord­
ing to reports this week, he 
was seen with another child 
at practice just a few years ago. 
Despite several health is­sues in recent years, Pater-no, now in his 46th season, has remained at the helm in Happy Valley. Losing seasons in the early 2000s could not remove him from the game he loves, as Penn State has reemerged as a perennial Big Ten title con­tender in recent years. 
Stunningly, it is his in­volvement in an unspeak­able and unimaginable crime that will remove him from the only job he has ever known. 
Always regarded as a man with no hobby outside of football, Joe Pa will endure a sentence that could not be more fitting — the remain­der of his life away from football. 
The coming days will say a lot about Penn State’s priorities. What’s most im­portant to the school that had always seemed to win with honor? The irony is they still get to decide what honor means to them. Will they remove Paterno and try to repair the school’s dam­aged reputation, regardless of what it means to the rest of the 2011 season? Or will they allow him to coach the remainder of the season and chase a Big Ten champion­ship? 
After nearly 46 seasons, it’s time for the school to show Paterno the door. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 
Players reject Stern’s labor offer 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — NBA play­ers made it clear Tuesday: No deal. 
No fear of Commissioner David Stern’s ultimatum, ei­ther. 
“The current offer on the table from the NBA is one that we cannot accept,” players’ association presi­dent Derek Fisher said. 
Instead, the players said they will ask for another meeting with owners before Stern’s Wednesday after­noon deadline — and sound willing to agree to a 50-50 split of revenues under the right circumstances — in an attempt to end the lockout and save the season. 
The league’s current pro­posal calls for players to receive between 49 percent and 51 percent of basket­ball-related income, though union officials argue it would be nearly impossible to get above 50.2 percent. 
“The players are clearly of the mind that it’s an unac­ceptable proposal,” union executive director Billy Hunter said. “But because of their commitment to the game and their desire to play, they’re saying to us that we want you to go back, see if you can go back, get a better deal.” 
Players are willing to ne­gotiate further on the rev­enue split if they get some concessions on the salary cap system. Without them, Fisher said “we don’t see a way of getting a deal done between now and end of business” Wednesday. 
The league is seeking to limit the spending options of teams above the luxury tax threshold, believing that would lead to greater com­petitive balance. Players want all teams to be options for free agents. 
If players don’t take the deal by 5 p.m. Wednesday, the next offer will call for salary rollbacks, a 53-47 revenue split in the owners’ favor and essentially a hard salary cap. 
And, Hunter said he heard, games canceled through Christmas. NBA spokesman Mike Bass, however, said the league had nothing to an­nounce about cancellations. 
A month of the season has already been lost, and the NBA risks losing fans without an agreement soon. Some already appear to have forgotten: Griffin, last season’s rookie of the year, stood around in the lobby of a busy hotel off Broadway and was rarely approached by fans. 


The players insisted they will not be forced into tak­ing a bad deal by an ultima­tum — though Stern refused to call it that. 
“The players are saying that we understand their position, but unfortunately we’re not intimidated by all that,” Hunter said. 
With more than 40 play­ers ranging from All-Stars to minimum salary players behind them, Fisher and Hunter dismissed Stern’s warning, had hard words for Michael Jordan and re­peated that they are will­ing to negotiate and believe they have made more than enough economic conces­sions to get the salary cap system they want. 
That message was not just for the owners. 
They also were speaking to the players and agents who advocate disbanding the union in an attempt to take on the league in court. Union leaders said there was very little discussion about decertification, saying they understand there would be differences of opinion with a membership of 450, but that the team representa­tives summoned to New York knew the best interests of their teammates. 
The union called the meet­ing after Stern issued his ultimatum early Sunday morning following an eight-hour bargaining session with a federal mediator. Fisher said 43 players, in­cluding superstars Carmelo Anthony and Blake Griffin, attended the meeting and that 29 of the 30 teams were represented. 
Jordan provided perhaps the most memorable moment of the last lockout, chastis­ing former Washington own­er Abe Pollin that he should sell his team if he couldn’t make a profit without con­cessions from players. Jor­dan now owns the Charlotte Bobcats and is considered one of the hardliners who never wanted Stern to offer the players a 50-50 split. 
“I would give him the ad­vice that he gave to Abe Pol­lin,” Hunter said. 
After the press confer­ence, Fisher bumped into an old acquaintance from Arkansas, former President Bill Clinton, who was at the hotel preparing to appear on an evening talk show. Clin­ton signed a copy of his new book, “Back to Work,” for Fisher as players looked on. 
Next, Fisher would like to meet with Stern, believing there is room to compro­mise. 
After previously saying they wouldn’t go below 52.5 percent of BRI, players said Saturday they would be willing to go down to about 51 percent, with 1 percent going to a fund for retired player benefits. 
They might go even fur­ther, but only with some movement on the system is­sues. 
“We’re open to discus­sions, open to negotiation,” Fisher said. “We’re open minded about potential compromises on our num­ber, but there are things in the system that are not up for discussion that we have to have in order to able to get this season going.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
House for rent in beautiful Wooded Estates. 
3 Br, 2 Ba, finished basement, 
fenced yard, laundry. 
$1100/mo. Walk to campus. Phone 574-514-6260 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
MODERN FAMILY QUOTES 
Phil: Claire’s a perfectionist, which sometimes is a good thing, like when it comes to picking a husband. 
Mitchell: It’s Cameron’s turn to be out in the world interacting with other grown-ups while I get to stay at home and plot the death of Dora the Explorer. 
Gloria: I thought one of the advantages of marrying an older guy was that I was going to be able to relax. But all of this swimming and running and rowing, it’s just like how some of my relatives got into this country! 
Phil: Guess it’s just one of those things that we’ll never know, like what really happened to the Titanic. 
Claire: It hit an iceberg. 
Phil: Maybe. 
Phil: I was 11 years old. I hit 10 straight fastballs in the batting cage, then my friend Jeff Sweeney took one in the groin. I yelled “ball two!” Everybody laughed. That’s when I knew I was funny. 
Mitchell: The attic? Why? 
Luke: At least it’s big. Grandpa said you used to live in a closet. 
Cameron: You’re going to find 
somebody because you’re an amazing girl Katie, you’re the whole package, I just prefer someone who has one. 
Phil: You know who can’t climb trees? 
Luke: Raccoons? 
Phil: Worries. Raccoons can and will so don’t leave food up here. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 2011 
place out of 20 teams with a lon, Ohio and Case Western fense for their first try. of the weekend, a 15-2 win 
Club 
3-3 record.  The Irish opened on Saturday, but went up 3-0 However, the Irish re-against Virginia Tech, saw 
the weekend with back-to-against Ohio Northern be-turned to score a try of their goals scored by nine differ-continued from page 13 back wins against Ohio Wes-fore winning by forfeit, giv-own by graduate student and ent team members. 
leyan and Denison.The team ing the Notre Dame women inside center Kayla Bishop, Senior captain Erin Gibson Charlie Bowen and Eric Bens then lost a hard fought game their first victory of the day. tying the score 5-5. Junior was a leading scorer and se­made plays on both sides of to Edinboro. The Irish ended Although the scoreboard outside center Ashley Okon-nior goalkeeper Kelly Gibson the disc with timely catches pool play with a tough 13-5 did not reflect it, the team ta then scored a second try and senior hole set defender and precise throws. loss against Pittsburgh, who improved throughout the day to put the Irish in the lead Kasia Ahern anchored the 
Senior Sean Jackson added finished in the top four in and carried that momentum 10-5.  The Irish hoped to defense.  The Irish now look experience handling and se-the tournament. into Sunday’s bracket play, continue scoring to cement forward to their annual in­nior Alex Clark controlled On Sunday, Notre Dame X where they performed much their lead, but a break by trasquad Blue-Gold game in the skies. started slow against Ohio, better. After falling behind Minnesota gave the Gophers December. 
After the win, the Irish ad-but after a time out, the team 4-0 to Allegheny on Sunday a second try and a conver­vanced to take on SUNY-Buf-rallied in the end of the first morning, Notre Dame came sion.  The half ended with Bowling falo X. Much like the game half. However they could not back to win the game by the Irish down two points. Notre Dame headed to before, Notre Dame fell be-keep the momentum, losing three points. Fresh off the In the second half, the Cleveland this weekend for hind early, but mounted an-this first game in the first victory, they went on to beat Irish fought to recover their the second and third Ameri­other comeback. This time, round of the championship Miami (Ohio) 12-8 in a windy lead. With 17 minutes left can Heartland Tournaments however, it fell short with bracket. In spite of this game that put them in 13th in the half, the Irish forced of the year. Buffalo taking the game 14-early loss, the team started place. their way through the de-With good coaching by 
13. Falling to the fifth place strong in its next game, get-fense for a try by freshman Dan Dews, freshmen Chris bracket, ND-Y lost to Akron ting a 6-0 lead against North Women’s Rugby fullback Natalie Branch. The Henneman and Kevin before beating SUNY Buffalo Park and holding on to win. The Irish women’s rugby Irish were up 15-12, but the Schneider are improving Y again for seventh. ND-X Juniors Andrea Palazzolo team traveled to Minneapo-Gophers brought the ball at a rapid pace. Sophomore went 1-1 on Sunday with a and Coutrney Iverson led the lis this weekend to play the around the Irish defense for Mike Murray turned his sea-win over Case Western and a team handling with beauti-Minnesota in the first round another try. The Irish ran son around with an admi­loss to John Carroll. Standout ful throws, and junior Dev-of Midwest playoffs.  The out of time and the Minne-rable 160 after injuring his performances for both teams lin Lynch had great cuts, Irish fought hard through-sota won 17-15. thumb and one finger on his included juniors Dan Bolivar both in and deep. Sopho-out the game and struggled bowling hand. The Irish are and Connor Sea, sophomores more Molly Partusch and to turn the back and forth Women’s Water Polo next in action Nov. 12 and Conor Hanney and Jordan freshman McKenna Schus-score into an Irish win. Over the weekend, the 13, when they travel to Day-Lange, and freshmen Keith ter played hard defense all However, in the end Notre Irish competed against some ton for the Raider Classic. Podgorski, Kevin Song, Kyle weekend. Dame’s hopes were crushed of the best teams on the Hill, Jason Wassel and Er-The Notre Dame Y squad, by a close 17-15 loss, bring-east coast at the Virginia’s Fishing ich and Danny Kerekes. The captained by senior Ashley ing an end to its playoff run. Wahoo Classic. The Irish Notre Dame’s fishing club men’s team will now begin to Satterlee, demonstrated sig-The game started with the opened preseason play with traveled to Manistee, Mich., move indoors for the winter nificant improvement over Irish receiving the ball from a win against Pittsburgh 15-for the Steelhead Run tour-and begin preparing for the the weekend and ended in the Gophers. The game was 5, and went on to host Vir-nament.  This was strictly a spring season with an eye on 13th place with a 3-3 record. fast-paced with both teams ginia and won 10-4. catch and release event, so a Nationals bid in May. As the only split squad in playing very physically In its third game of the no fish returned to campus. 
The women’s team also the tournament and as the and rucking well.  Halfway day, the team faced Duke. The club will take part traveled to North Coast host-No. 2-seed in the toughest through the first half, the Though they fought back in several events, including ed by Case Western Reserve. bracket, the women had a gophers used penalty kicks from an early 4-0 deficit, Bass or Steelhead tourna-The Notre Dame X, led by se-disadvantage from the start. for touch to move the ball the Irish could not over-ments, throughout the year nior captain Vicke Hadlock, They lost to experienced down into Irish territory and come their slow start and and is open to both men and finished the weekend in 10th teams from Carnegie Mel-broke through the Irish de-lost 11-10.  The last game women. 
Casareto 
continued from page 16 
es this season. Chiang has twice won the Big East title in the three-meter and participated in the USA Diving Winter National Championships in February and again competed nationally over the summer. She said she began the fall with high expectations, but has also gotten help from her teammate. 
“I came off a really good sea­son in the summer after compet­ing for nationals last year,” Chi­ang said. “I came into this season hoping I would perform even better than last year. Obviously I always hope to get first every time I dive, but it hasn’t been just me. Allison has been doing really well. It’s nice to win but it’s also nice to see her do well.” 
According to Chiang, the com­petition between Notre Dame’s two top divers does not mean bad blood. She said they instead focus on the team’s success. 
“It’s always very friendly com­petition in practice,” she said. “I always want to see her do well. It’s also nice because if I don’t do well, I know Allison or [fresh­man] Jordan [Russell] or some­one else will do well to fill in and pick us up on an off day.” 
In addition to her superior ef­fort during meets, Chiang also assumes a veteran’s position during practice. She said she expected the young Irish squad to need help, just as she did as a freshman, but that each diver requires a different form of lead­ership. 

“I think it’s a little of both,” Chiang said of her leadership style. “Coming in I was expect­ing to take a lot of the leadership role just because the other div­ers were so young. They had a lot of questions just like I did when I was a freshman. Also, there’s the aspect of seeing what other people do and just learning from them. It works differently for dif­ferent people.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

Cave 
continued from page 16 
freshman defensive end Aaron Lynch, both struggling with an­
105 guys that were in this room when we showed it to them, and they were excited,” he said. “All due respect to everybody else that has an opinion, I really don’t care about theirs, I care about what my players think, and our 
kle injuries, will also be ready for Saturday’s game. 
The Irish, as a part of their re­cently es­tablished ‘Shamrock Series,’ will be wearing green jerseys and gold hel­mets with a green sham­
“The only people I care about relative to the uniforms are the 105 guys that were in this room when we showed it to them, and they were excited.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 
players love it. We’re going to stay with those kinds of things that still fall with­in our color schemes and our logoing, and kids like that stuff. So if our kids like it, then I can tell you I’m certain that the recruits like it, as well. 
rock on the side against Mary­land. Kelly said his sole concern when changing the uniform is the reaction of the players, who he said were fully in support. 
“The only people I care about relative to the uniforms are the And that’s really the only people that measure for me relative to who likes them and who doesn’t like them.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Squash splits matches at Navy 
Rowing finishes fifth in Tennessee; Bowling improves in Cleveland 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame traveled to Annapolis, Md., to partici­pate in the US Naval Acad­emy Invitational. 
The team split four match­es, dropping contests with Virginia and Navy B, and then rebounding to defeat both Duke and North Caro­lina.  The Irish lineup con­sisted of freshmen Reilly Bench, Mike O’Neill and Ri­ley McGraw, sophomores TJ Sarda, Joseph Whalen and Paul Mickan, junior Ryan Gisriel and seniors Dennis Grabowski and Ryan Jenks. 
Men’s Rowing 
This weekend, the Irish traveled to Chattanooga, Tenn., to participate in the Head of the Hooch regatta, wrapping up the fall season. After a long overnight bus ride, fog delayed the begin­ning of the regatta for near­ly two hours. 
Racing opened with the Varsity 4+ boats in the club four event taking home fifth place in a field of more than 30 boats. Racing continued in the morning when Notre Dame entered a Novice Four and four Novice Eights. The novice put on a strong showing, with the first nov­ice boat taking home silver medals. 
In the afternoon, the two Varsity Eights had their turn down the course in the Championship 8+ event. The first eight took home fourth place behind the Atlanta Rowing Club. The second eight finished in 10th, ahead of every other second boat and a number of first boats as well. 
The Irish now turn their full attention to the spring sprint season, shifting prac­tices inside to the ergom­eters in Loftus Sports Center to build up strength and fit­ness for championship sea­son. 
The team’s next race is the San Diego Crew Classic on March 31 and April 1 on Mission Bay, San Diego. 
Equestrian 
The  Notre  Dame/Saint  
Mary’s  Equestrian  Team  
hosted  a  one-day  horse  

show at Culver Academy this weekend. 
The day started off with sophomore Katie Walsh taking first and junior Mia Genereux taking second in Open Fences. Junior Mau­reen McQuillan also had a strong ride, taking first in Intermediate Fences, while senior Victoria Scheid placed fifth in the fences class and sophomore Steph Nearhos took sixth. 
Senior Catherine Mikkle­sen had an incredible ride in her Alumni Fences class taking a respective second in her fences class and fifth in her flat class.  Despite having a large Open Flat class, the Irish faired well for themselves with Walsh taking another first and Ge­nereux taking another sec­ond. 
McQuillan was another repeat offender in Interme­diate Flat, gathering anoth­er first and setting herself and Walsh up to compete for high point and reserve high point rider. Nearhos came in a close second behind McQuillan in that particu­lar class. Seniors Christine Martin and Sarah Lusher took fourth and fifth in their Novice Flat class, re­spectively. 
The day came to a close with freshman Rebecca Bul­lis grabbing second place in her Walk-Trot-Canter class and freshman De’Lana Northbird taking fourth in her Walk-Trot class. 
Walsh became High Point Rider for the day and Mc-Quillan became Reserve High Point Rider.  Overall, the Irish came in second as a team, losing to Wisconsin-Madison by 10 points. 
Ultimate 
Notre Dame traveled to Cleveland, Ohio to compete in the eighth edition of North Coast, the last tournament of the fall season. 
Split into two relatively equal teams, the ND X squad led by seniors Will Cernanec and Adam Barsella finished 16th while the Y team led by seniors Michael DellaPenna, James Denue and Thomas Kenealy finished seventh. 
ND-Y started hot in Sat­urday morning pool play with easy wins over Bowling Green and Wright State 13-7 and 13-6, respectively. The Irish were tested against SUNY-Buffalo Y, but were able to secure a place in the championship bracket with a 13-9 win. In their final game of the day, the Y-squad fell to Toledo. 
ND-X didn’t fare as well during their pool play games, suffering losses to Akron, Allegheny and Pitts­burgh, but won a blowout over Ohio. 
With the chance to avenge ND-X’s loss, ND-Y began Sunday in pre-quarters against Allegheny. Notre Dame was down 8-4 at half, but after switching to a zone defense in the second half was able to fight back to tie the game at 10. Like the day before, the game came down to the last few points, but this time the Irish pulled out the win 15-13. Juniors 
see CLUB/page 12 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 2011 

Observer File Photo 
Kelcy Tefft returns the ball in 2007, her junior year at Notre Dame. Tefft is currently in her first season as Irish assistant coach. 
Tefft 
continued from page 16 
“I always figured she would make a good coach because of how much she loves the game and how she likes to compete,” Loud­erback said. “Kelcy was like an assistant coach as a senior. She is very competitive and expected her teammates to also compete.” 
So when former assistant coach Julia Scaringe moved away over the summer, Louderback made a call to Tefft, then an assistant coach at Tulsa. 
“Jay called to ask if I was inter­ested and I said no, just 
because I’m from Oklahoma and was closer to family,” Tefft said. “And then I reconsidered and called him back later. [Notre Dame has] been to the Final Four two times out of the last three years, and this is one of the best jobs in the country, so when I got that opportunity, I wanted to come back.” 
Tefft said her new position has altered the way she interacts with her former teammates, but the transition has been a smooth one. 
“It is different. Luckily, I was a senior and they were freshmen and I was their captain, so there was a little bit of a difference then,” Tefft said. “They’ve been very mature about it and they’ve been great. They work so hard and they’re ideal student-athletes, so they’ve made things a lot easier.” 
Frilling said she looked to Tefft as a role model even when the two were teammates and doubles partners. 
“I definitely looked up to Kelcy as a freshman, not only for the obvious reason of her being se­nior captain, but also because of the success she had, as well as her personality,” Frilling said. “Kelcy will always be a friend to me, but she will also always be someone I look up to no matter what posi­tions we are in. I think our rela­tionship is a bit more professional now since she is a coach rather than a teammate, but I still con­sider her a friend first, coach sec­ond.” 
Tefft said rejoining Irish athlet­ics has been a great experience so far. 
“I never really saw myself com­ing back, just because it’s a dif­ferent mindset, but South Bend’s been good, and working in the athletic department’s been won­derful,” Tefft said. “Everyone’s so nice and works so well together, so it’s been very pleasant.” 
Frilling said she was glad to have Tefft back with the team dur­ing her own senior campaign. 
“It’s kind of like we have come full circle. When I was a freshman she was in her last year, and now that I’m in my last year, she’s in her first year as a coach,” Frilling said. “She’s a great coach and I’m sure she will continue the legacy she left when she was a student-athlete here at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
women runners are looking up 
Rydberg 
as well. “We started off the season continued from page 16 really well at National and 
Catholic and since then we’ve a field of 138 runners and led been working out really hard. the Irish for the fifth consecu-This is probably the fittest our tive race. team has ever been,” Rydberg 
Rydberg managed to set the said. “However, there is still a bar pretty high for herself as a lot of room to grow. freshman, racing in four cross “I don’t think we’ve reached country events. In the spring to our full potential yet, both of her fresh-as a team or man year, individually. 
she earned All-American honors on the outdoor track team and placed 10th at the  “I don’t think we’ve reached to our full potential yet, both as a tea or individually. Hopefully, we can show what we’ve worked so  H o p e f u l l y , we can show what we’ve worked so hard for at regionals and then at na- 
NCAA cham­pionships in  hard for at regionals and then at nationals.“  tionals.” Rydberg ob- 
the  10-kilo­ viously  does  
meter race with a time of 33:34.60 as  Jessica Rydberg Irish junior  not shy away from pointing out the team’s  
the only fresh- goals.  
man  in  the  “We want to  

24-member field. Her time is win regionals and then I think currently the fourth-fastest in a spot in the top 15 at nationals Notre Dame program history. is a good goal for us,” Rydberg When asked about it, the event said. goes down as her favorite run-This upcoming weekend they ning memory. will try just that, as Rydberg 
“Hayward Field is pretty and the team will travel to To-much the Mecca of track run-ledo, Ohio, for the Great Lakes ning,” Rydberg said. “I ran a Regional competition Saturday. really good race and it was just an amazing experience.” Contact Aaron Saint-Miller at 
Going forward, the rest of the asantmil@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 



J


HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 

THAPC  

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
NEYDE SOLISF ORRWUB  

Print answer here: A 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MUSIC AWARD DENOTE BETTOR Yesterday’s 
Answer: His prize-winning sourdough was the — TOAST OF THE TOWN 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Snapping into perfection 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
No matter how it is billed — a home game, a ‘home away from home’ game or just another game in the ‘Shamrock Series’ — Irish coach Brian Kelly said the Irish are preparing for Saturday’s game against Maryland like they would any other road game. 
“We’re back on the road with Maryland this week, and I know it’s technically a home game, but we’re in Washington, D.C., and that’s Maryland’s backyard,” he said. “We are mentally preparing ourselves to go in to play on the road again and all that goes with that. 
“We’ve had a pretty good un­derstanding of how to play on the road and what is necessary. Other than the last couple of minutes of the Michigan game, we’ve been very good on the road over the last year-and-a-half, and we’re going to expect the same because we’re going to need it.” 
The Irish will be without senior center Braxston Cave, who is out for the season with a foot injury. Senior Mike Golic will fill in for Cave, and Kelly said he is very confident in Golic’s ability to step in and be successful. 
“Having said that, we’ve got a 
great deal of confidence in [Gol­
ic],” he said. “[He] came in, played very well for us [against Wake Forest]. I think when you look at the center position, there’s always a great concern because that guy is put in a very difficult situation, shotgun snaps, changing up the cadence, calling out some of the defensive fronts and structures, but [Golic] has done a nice job and we have a great deal of con­fidence, and that’s a next man in situation for us with [him] going in there.” 

Kelly said while Golic does not have the physical power that Cave does, he has his own set of strengths to work with. 
“One of the traits that we’ve liked about [Golic] from day one is his ability to snap the ball,” he said. “The other things have come. He’s gotten stronger, he’s more physical. He’s certainly not as strong as [Cave], but he is physically able to move his feet, get out and do the things, but I think it starts with snapping the ball. That’s really where he’s done a nice job and has been consistent in that respect.” 
Junior receiver Theo Riddick will also be on the sideline for the Irish due to a hamstring injury, but Kelly said he was hopeful se­nior defensive end Ethan Johnson will return to the field, and that junior linebacker Manti Te’o and 
see CAVE/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Tefft adjusts to new role, inspiresformerteammate 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Three years ago, then-senior captain Kelcy Tefft took the court alongside Kristy Frilling for the ITA Indoor National doubles championship match at the Bil­lie Jean King Tennis Center. Last weekend, Tefft again watched her partner from that match, se­nior Kristy Frilling, walk onto the court for the National Indoor doubles final, but with one major difference. This time, Tefft wasn’t there as Frilling’s doubles part­ner, but as the coach aiding Frill­ing and senior Shannon Mathews. 
Tefft, a former All-American and Big East Outstanding Player of the Year, said she never imagined returning to work at her alma mater after graduation, but Irish coach Jay Louderback said he saw the makings of a good coach while she was still a student-athlete. 
see TEFFT/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Casareto, Chiang battle for top spot, lead team 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
At 3-2 on the year and with a roster sporting 10 freshmen, the Irish have seen their share of ups and downs so far this sea­son. However, Notre Dame has always been able to count on its divers. 
Against TCU and Oakland to start the season, freshman Al­lison Casareto placed second in the three-meter dive. In every other three- and one-meter dive, the Irish have taken first. Includ­ed in that streak is first place finishes in both diving events against Auburn, last season’s No. 4 team nationally. 
Most of the credit goes to Casareto and junior Jenny Chi­ang, who have teamed up to for multiple first and second finish-
see CASARETO/page 12 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Rydberg leads Irish into regionals 
By AARON SAINT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Running has a unique meaning to everyone. To some, it is torture, while to others, it is life’s greatest pleasure. To Irish junior Jessica Rydberg, it is something a little different. 
“Running is my escape from the world and society — just everything that we have to do,” Rydberg said. 
In fact, what she loves most about running is unique in its own way too. 
“I think [my favorite part of running] is going through re­ally hard workouts, pushing through the pain, the suffer­ing and having my teammates there with me,” Rydberg said. “It’s great knowing you are pushing each other to be bet­ter and stronger every day and knowing you are getting bet­ter and stronger every day.” 
Yet these hard workouts have not been something Ryd­berg has had the luxury of ex­periencing her whole time at Notre Dame. After a success­ful freshman season, Rydberg suffered a sacral stress frac­ture in October of her sopho­more year. As a result, she was unable to compete her entire sophomore campaign. 
“It was really hard to watch the team compete without me and not be able to help the team the way I knew I could,” Rydberg said. 
For many athletes, that feel­ing of helplessness can be overwhelming and can some­times even damage their ca­reer going forward. But Ryd­berg saw it a different way. 

“It really made me appreci­ate the ability I have and how much I was taking for grant­ed,” Rydberg said. “In fact, it was definitely refreshing, in kind of a hard way.” 
Going forward, Rydberg had the hard task of bouncing back. 
“Coming back into this sea­son, I just really wanted to stay healthy and run every workout like it’s my last one,” Rydberg said. “Because it might be.” 
Clearly, this approach has benefitted her as she has con­tinued her success this year. In the Big East champion­ships, Rydberg finished 18th in 
see RYDBERG/page 14 






