the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Unions shake Indiana legislation 
Democrats and Republicans battle for control of public employees’ labor organizations 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Indiana State Democrats’ walk­out of the Statehouse last week is part of a larger trend in politics, Notre Dame professor Jack Colwell said. 
While many Notre Dame stu­dents are not familiar with Indiana politics, the current issues are relevant on a national level, said Colwell, adjunct pro­fessor of American Studies at Notre Dame and political colum­nist for the South Bend Tribune. 
“And similar things may well be going on in [stu-See Also dents’] own 
“Unions
states,” he said. “Either demonstrate at 
[it is hap-

Wisconsin 
pening] now, 

Capitol.”
or it will happen in page 7the future, because it is a real battle with Republican governors seeking, among other things, to control the public employees’ unions, which had become pretty strong.” 
Many Republicans blame labor unions for states’ fiscal problems, Colwell said, while Democrats argue that economic issues are more complex than union power. 
“That battle’s going to be going on in a lot of states,” Colwell said. “And it’s part of the battle going on in Congress, too.” 
Colwell said the walkout in Indiana disrupted what many believed would be a short legisla­tive session. 
“The session of the Indiana General Assembly, I don’t think, was getting much public atten­tion at all,” Colwell said. “But low and behold, the Democrats in the House had different ideas.” 
The 40 Democrats in the Indiana House of Representatives did not have the power to affect the outcome of Republicans’ votes on legislation, but there 
see INDIANA/page 4 



Gans and Zupancic win office 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Juniors Nicole Gans and Jackie Zupancic earned 37.2 percent of the votes to win last week’s three-ticket race for Student Government Association (SGA) president and vice president at Saint Mary’s. 
Gans and Zupancic will take office as president and vice president, respectively, April 1. 
“[The election] was so excit­ing,” Zupancic said. “It was great to see our hard work in campaigning pay off, and to see how much support we had. All of the candidates did such a great job, and everyone was very well qualified, so it was a very tough competition.” 
Gans and Zupancic said their major goals are those that will directly impact the student body. 
“The major goals of our plat­form were to help Saint Mary’s become more ecologically friendly, increase pride in Saint Mary’s and help develop better communication of policies and procedures, such as the allot­ment process,” Zupancic said. 
The pair said they want to focus on both the student body and the individual. 
“Through each initiative we start, we want to focus on how it will bring the student body-
see SMC/page 7 



Council tickets run today for election 
By JOHN CAMERON, 
MELISSA FLANAGAN, 
AMANDA GRAY, ADAM 
LLORENS and 
SAM STRYKER 
News Writers 
The election committee approved 13 tickets to run for Class Council. Seven tickets are running for Sophomore Class Council, while Junior and Senior Class Councils have three tickets each. Elections will take place online today from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Sophomore Class Council 
• Rayven Moore, Romel Nicholas, Johnny Romano, Grace Foster 
Class unity lies at the heart of the platform presented by Rayven Moore, Romel Nicholas, Johnny Romano and Grace Foster. 
“My ticket’s main focus is to get the entire class involved in decision-making processes and to hold events that everyone can enjoy,” Moore said. 
Many of their ideas, including a class service trip to a disaster 
see COUNCIL/page 5 


‘YOU ARE NOT ALONE’ RECEPTION 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Room Dedication honors Saint Mary’s page 3  Viewpoint page 8  William Young at ND Literary Festival page 10  Men’s Basketball page 20 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, February 28, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 






TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Amanda Gray Mike Gotimer Nicole Toczauer Matthew Robison Caitlin Housley Megan Golden 

Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Ankur Chawla 


Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 

What is your favorite book? Roche: Harry Potter, even though I think it’s unrealistic. A ginger kind with two friends? Get real. 
What is your favorite joke? Roche: What do you call a dog with no legs? Doesn’t matter what you call him. He’s not going to come. 

What is your favorite word? Roche: Gobsmacked. No, wait. Unitard. 
Describe your life goals. Roche: I plan on living forever ... so far, so good. 
What was your imaginary friend’s name? Roche: Bob. Blue octopus. Great guy. 

Who is your celebrity crush? Roche: Carrot Top 

Tierney Roche 
sophomore Pangborn 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Notre Dame freshman Anastasia Hansen, right, attempts to block a throw from a Florida opponent during Sunday’s game, which was a part of the Women’s Water Polo Irish Invitational. 


OFFBEAT 

Scouts barred from selling cookies at historic house 
SAVANNAH, Ga. — Girl Scouts are no longer able to sell their famous cookies outside the historic Savannah home of the woman who founded the organization almost a centu­ry ago. 
A complaint last year ended the longtime practice of selling the cookies on the public sidewalk outside the home of Juliette Gordon Low at the busy intersection of Bull Street and Oglethorpe Avenue. Peddling on a public side­walk is a violation of city ordinance. One city alder­man said he thinks the city should consider a tempo­rary exception for cookie 
Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 


IN BRIEF 
Student Affairs is now accept­ing nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journalism. Candidates must be seniors, and can be nominated by faculty, staff or fellow stu­dents. The nomination form is avaliable online. Deadline is March 4. 
Leonardo Arriola of the department of political science will lecture Tuesday on “Electoral Violence in Democratizing States.” The lec­ture will take place at 12:30 p.m. in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Abel Barrera Hernandez, founder and director of the Tlachinollan Human Rights Center of the Montana in Guerrero, Mexico, will lecture Tuesday at 4 p.m. The lecture, “Defending the Rights of the Indigenous and Peasant Peoples in Guerrero, Mexico,” will be in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Prepare for Carnaval with Festa, Danca e Bate-Papo Tuesday in LaFortune ballroom 6 to 8 p.m. to celebrate the Brazilian tradition. 
Professor Emeritus Michael Crowe of the program of liberal studies will lecture on Sherlock Holmes Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. The lecture, “Ronald Knox and Sherlock Holmes: The Origin of Sherlockian Studies,” will be in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Janet Kaplan, the 2011 Sandeen Prize winner, will read from her book of poety Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

thursday friday 

season. 

The city's zoning adminis­trator, Randolph Scott, said he investigated the matter and tried to find a solution. He said he called for a sur­vey, hoping there would be some private space between the home and the sidewalk. He said there wasn't any. 
Scott said they also looked at allowing the Scouts to sell from a small courtyard on the side of the house, but fire marshals told the Scouts they would block an exit route. The home is a National Historic Landmark open for tours. 
Company to sell an even more ‘natural’ ice cream 
LONDON — Gross or tasty? A London company is offering an unusual dessert 
— ice cream made with human breast milk. 
Trendy London ice cream parlor The Icecreamists said its "Baby Gaga" ice cream sold out as soon as it launched Friday. 
The company paid women who responded to an online ad to donate their breast milk. The milk — which the company said was screened in line with blood donor requirements — is then pas­teurized and churned together with vanilla pods and lemon zest. The dish comes in a martini glass and sells for 14 pounds ($22.50) each. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Today Tonight tuesday wednesday 




CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Monday, February 28, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC honored with Riley room 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
The eighth floor of the newly built Simon Family Tower of the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis will now have even greater significance for Saint Mary’s students. 
Room W8118, which serves as a patient room for the children’s hospital, has been dedicated as the Saint Mary’s room, said Katie Fadden, fundraising president of Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon. 
“There will be a sign outside of the room that reads, ‘A gift from Saint Mary’s College Dance Marathon, ’” 
“One of the things I 
Fadden said. “It 12 hours one day is quite an love most about Dance a year to raise 
honor to have a Marathon is that awareness and patient room money for the 
participants have the 
named on our hospital. behalf.” time of their lives “Riley is 
Fadden said while helping to save Indiana’s only Saint Mary’s children’s com-
lives.” 
D a n c e prehensive hospi-Marathon tal and is a received the Katie Fadden leader in provid­honor because president ing treatment Saint Mary’s and research for 
Dance Marathon 
dancers have raised more than $320,000 for Riley over the past six years. 
“We are so excited to be hon­ored in this way because it is something that all of our hard work and dedication over the past six years can be remem­bered by,” Becca Guerin, the external vice president of the dance marathon, said. 
According to Guerin, the mem­bers of the Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon executive board will travel to Indianapolis in April to receive the award, see the room, meet with doctors and visit the patients. 
She said all members of the Notre Dame community, not just the Saint Mary’s students, should be proud. 
“I think that our Dance Marathon reflects very highly of the Notre Dame community because we are all able to come together and raise money for such a great cause,” she said. 
The marathon first began on campus in 2006, and since then, 
students have 
pledged to stay 
on their feet for 
sick children,” 
Fadden said. “Most importantly, they will never turn a family away for their inability to pay for their child’s treatment. As a result, over 50 percent of their care is uncompensated.” 
Fadden, along with fundrais­ing chair Kelli Minor, said this lack of compensation is why they urge members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s commu-nity to participate in the event every year. 


“As healthy, happy college stu­dents having the time of our lives, I think it is important to participate in Dance Marathon, to be able to give back and help others who truly need it,” Fadden said. 
Minor added: “Riley is an amazing place because, being a Children’s Miracle Network hos­pital, they give away over 50 percent of their services at no cost and never turn away fami­lies due to their financial situa­tions. Dance Marathon at Saint Mary’s is important in helping keep these services available by providing funds to the hospital to help treat sick children who may not be able to afford their care.” 
The Dance Marathon event 

Buildings awarded will be held Saturday from noon to midnight. 
According to Minor, this year’s goal is to improve from last 



LEED certification 

year’s $77,000 raised. 
Saint Mary’s dancers can still sign up for the event in the Student Center atrium during lunch and dinner hours. Notre Dame students can register online via the pre-professional society website, found at www.nd.edu/~medinfo/ 
“One of the things I love most about Dance Marathon is that participants have the time of their lives while helping to save lives,” Fadden said. 
Students, faculty and commu­nity members are welcome to take part in the event. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
was designed and built using strategi es aimed at 


improving per-“We expect to and Innovation formance Park building to 
continue to embrace 
across all the receive the 
the LEED certifcation
metrics that LEED certifica­matter most: process and seek it tion. energy savings, The LEED cer­
for future new 
water efficien-tification pro ­
campus buildings.” 
cy, CO2 emis-gram promotes sions reduc -a whole-build­tion, improved Doug Marsh ing approach to indoor envi -sustainability, 
associate vice president 
-ronmental quality and stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their impacts,” according to the USGBC’s website. 
“As part of the University’s goal to ensure that its Catholic character informs all its endeavors, we seek to minimize the environmental impact of new campus build­ings and the act of construct­ing them,” said Doug Marsh, Notre Dame’s associate vice president and University architect. 
In addition to the two newly certified buildings, Stinson-Remick Hall, Geddes Hall and Ryan Hall have LEED Gold certification. The University is also currently pursuing LEED certification for the Compton Family Center Ice Hockey Arena and Carole Sandner Hall, as well as the Stayer Executive Education Center, a building currently in the planning and design stage. 
“We expect to continue to embrace the LEED certifica­tion process and seek it for future new campus build ­ings,” Marsh said. “Most of our design and construction staff in the Office of the University Architect have earned the distinction of LEED Accredited Professionals and continue to track the ever-evolving LEED credit system.” 
Marsh said the high per­centage use of regionally manufactured and harvested construction materials, rapid­ly renewable materials and building materials made from recycled content, the diver­sion of construction waste from landfills and the highly efficient energy systems helped the Purcell Pavilion 


By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
The recently completed Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center and the two-year-old Innovation Park building were awarded Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold and Silver certification, respectively, by the United States Green Building Council (USGBC), according to a University press release. 
“[LEED certification pro­vides] third-party verification that a building or community which necessi 
tates the incor­poration of collective factors into a building’s design and construction. 
“It is a fully integrated process that begins with the initial site planning for each building, continues through the detailed design phase, and carries through construc­tion and a post-occupancy survey of building occupants,” Marsh said. “Everyone on the design and construction team 
— architects, engineers, con­struction managers — must all work together to achieve the goals established by the LEED credit system.” 
Notre Dame’s receipt of the LEED certification for these buildings and its ongoing par­ticipation in the rigorous cer­tification process reflects the University’s environmental stewardship and its leader­ship and innovation in regard to sustainability issues, Marsh said. 


Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 28, 2011 


ProjectPinkclaimstherunway 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Last year, Pangborn raised over $700 for South Bend’s S­O-S Rape Crisis Center with its Project Pink event, and rector Sr. Mary Donnelly was hopeful this year’s event would be even more successful. 
“Last year we raised a little over $700,” she said. “Hopefully we can hit that or beyond. At the rate funding is being cut, everything we can do helps.” 
The fourth annual Project Pink was held Friday at Legends. The commissioners of the event, sophomore Kathleen Kastenholz and sen­ior Rebecca Palacios, said they have been planning the event since before Christmas. 
Palacios said the event has evolved since Pangborn adopt­ed it four years ago. 
“It started as a vintage fash­ion show with a retro theme,” she said. “We wanted a more diverse selection of items, so we adopted a new theme.” 
The event raised money for the Center by having a silent auction to bid on articles of clothing in the fashion show, raffling items and selling Project Pink sunglasses and T-shirts. Many of the silent auc­tion and raffle items were donated, including a gift cer­tificate to local boutique Inspire Me and a pair of pink Crocs from Notre Dame Sports Marketing. 
In keeping with the retro theme of the fashion show, Kastenholz began shopping for pink clothes at consignment shops and vintage stores; some of the clothes were also donat­ed. It was Kastenholz who also come up with this year’s tag line: “Pink isn’t just a color, it’s an attitude.” 
“I saw it on a sign and thought it was perfect,” she said. 
Project Pink used to also have an event where partici­pants could donate their hair for making wigs, however, Pangborn has since teamed up with “The Bald and the Beautiful,” a campus wide event for cancer research. 
When planning the fashion show, Palacios was able to bring her experience from an internship in event planning. Both girls were also responsi­ble for coordinating models and helping the girls put together outfits with the donat­ed clothes. The models were all volunteers from Pangborn. 

“I was in the show last year and it was really fun and a really great cause, that’s why I applied for commissioner,” Kastenholz said. 
Both commissioners also were apart of planning prom fashion shows at their high schools and said that experi­ence was helpful in planning Project Pink. 
“The Center has so many different services and they are all free of charge,” Kastenholz said. “The money we raised to be donated will be used where it can.” 
The event was not just about the fashion show — BlackMagic, a magic and com­edy show featuring junior Eugene Staples and senior Eras Noel, performed, as well as Halftime, a campus a capel­la group. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@stmarys.edu 




Summitencouragesgreenpurchases 
By REBECCA MORIARTY 
News Writer 
The consumer’s impact on the market for sustainable products was discussed at “Purchasing Power,” the fourth annual Green Summit presented by the Office of Sustainability, on Friday. 
The summit began with a “marketplace,” in which par­ticipants were given four dif­ferent options of t-shirts, notebooks and cell phones and asked to choose which of the four options they would most likely buy in a store. 
Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves then 
w e l c o m e d attendees.  “We have to fnd a balance between  printing equip­ment more sus­ 
“I challenge you to live up to the previous  price, quality and sustainability.”  tainable. “We have to find a balance  
summits,” he  between price,  
said. He said the University is m a k i n g  Rob Kelly director Procurement Services  quality and sus­tainability,” he said. “At Notre Dame we aren’t  
progress and  ready to transi­ 

mentioned the Energy Studies tion to using brown paper.” 
program in engineering, Jenny Mish, a professor at improvements in recycling the Mendoza College of programs and tray-less days Business, spoke to partici­as successful ideas that have pants about the difficulties of come from past summits. 
Affleck-Graves stressed the importance of the entire Notre Dame community in the effort to make Notre Dame greener. 
“It affects all of us,” he said. “Students, staff and faculty are the only way we will make progress on this front. It’s everyone doing their bit.” 
Rob Kelly, director of Procurement Services, also spoke at the summit, describ­ing Notre Dame’s attempts to purchase green products. 
“If a change is economically feasible, that’s where we want to be,” Kelly said. 
He said Notre Dame is now 
looking to make 
printing and being a green consumer in the marketplace and how to make our purchases most effective as individual consumers. 

“Sustainability recognizes that we need to live in a way that doesn’t compromise future generations,” she said. 
She said individuals can make a difference by only consuming only our share of the world’s resources and no more. 
“If every person in the world consumed the way Americans did, we would need three worlds,” she said. 
Participants were then given the opportunity to dis­cuss sustainability and the marketplace in small groups. Members were especially interested in how products received “green” labels and how many toxins were already present in their bod­ies. 
All the speakers stressed that the move toward sustain­ability is a long process and must be accomplished over a long period of time. 
“Notre Dame is dedicated to this initiative,” Affleck-Graves said. 
Contact Rebecca Moriarty at rmoriar2@nd.edu 
Indiana 
continued from page 1 
were enough of them to break the quorum, Colwell said. By fleeing to Illinois last week, they prevented the Indiana House from holding a vote. 
“They did the only thing they could do,” Colwell said. “They wanted to kill some of the pro­posals.” 
Since House Democrats fled the state, Republicans have declared a right-to-work bill dead. The bill would have cut the power of labor unions. But after Republicans gave up on the bill, Colwell said House Democrats did not return to Indiana because they are hoping for other, similar victories. The Democrats originally wanted to kill at least 10 proposed bills, he said. 
“So the Democrats are trying to get some more of those killed,” Colwell said. “But I think the main thing they wanted to do was get public attention to what was happening.” 
The Republicans’ other pro­posals involve union labor and Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels’ proposed education reform pack­age, Colwell said. While Republicans may compromise on other issues, Colwell said the education reform package is extremely important to Daniels, who may run in the 2012 presi­dential election. 
“He wanted a smooth, quick legislative session so he could then tell about his achievements and go to Iowa and New Hampshire and wherever he decides to go to present his pres­idential possibilities,” Colwell said. “This does kind of throw a monkey wrench into that.” 
Democrats and Republicans will eventually reach a compro­mise, but Colwell said the cur­rent walkout has already lasted longer than other, similar dis­agreements. 
Both Democrats and Republicans have staged walk­outs in the past, but Colwell said it is unusual for a walkout to last more than a few days without reaching a compromise. Democrats walked out of the Indiana Statehouse Feb. 21 and have not yet returned. 
Indiana’s current political cli­mate is also an example of increasing partisanship around the country, Colwell said. 
“I think it says that if anybody thought that both parties were going to get a message from the last election that they should be more cooperative and not so divisive, they didn’t get that mes­sage,” he said. “It’s more divisive than ever. They aren’t moving toward compromise at all.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

Monday, February 28, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
hours twice a month where any Some of the major activities year more enjoyable for all “Our vision of Senior Class sophomore can come and give Michels’ ticket hopes to make a sophomores.” Council is to make bigger 

Council 

us suggestions,” he said. reality if elected include a class events, partnering with other Beyond social events, Catalano spirit week, class Mass, a cam-Junior Class Council offices on campus such as the 
continued from page 1 

said he wants to establish a pus-wide game of Humans vs. • Kevin Doherty, Megan Career Center, to get as many area somewhere in the U.S., class fundraising event focused Zombies and a life-sized replica-Rodts, Kim Neary, Nolan Welsh seniors as possible to partici­focus on helping others. Moore on one cause, though his ticket tion of Candyland on a quad. Kevin Doherty, Megan Rodts, pate,” she said. said he intends to work with is still open for suggestions on Michels said all members of Kim Neary, and Nolan Welsh The “Save the Best for Last” younger children in the South what that cause might be. her ticket are personable, easy-plan to use their experience platform consists of unique pro-Bend school district. The Catalano ticket is not cur-going people who will listen to within student government to gramming for the Class of 2012, 
“We’re thinking of maybe rently involved in student gov-concerns brought up by mem-leave a legacy for the Class of such as a “Beginning of the building a jungle gym or play-ernment, according to Catalano. bers of the Class of 2014. 2013, Doherty said. End” networking barbeque with ground area that can be donat-All were involved in student “We want to create a united Doherty said the group antici-a beer garden, “Night in Napa” ed from the Class of 2014,” he government in high school. class, address the needs articu-pates this year’s first wine tasting, new class apparel said. lated by the class and most Domecoming to expand into a and monthly senior masses. 
The ticket also hopes to plan a uColey Konkey, Princely Muro, importantly, bring people campus-wide series of events. In addition to a variety of fun class trip over fall or spring Kelsey Repine, Lauren Katen together to form a stronger “We envision Domecoming events throughout the year, break and prayer services at the Coley Konkey said the four Notre Dame community,” eventually evolving into a Huntington said the ticket plans Grotto during finals. students running on her ticket Michels said. school-wide spirit week and on making the end of the year 
come from different back-Homecoming Dance, and next especially memorable for the 
• Clare Yarka, Brandon grounds with different ideas to uAnthony Krenselewski, Lizzie year we plan to take steps graduating seniors. Nwannunu, Kara Cronin, Calvin better the student body. Helpling, Jackie Picache, toward this goal by involving “We also have some exciting Belden “We want to improve campus, Alesandra Mendoza other classes in the dance,” he new ideas for Senior Week, such 
Clare Yarka, Brandon and help make it and South Anthony Krenselewski, Lizzie said. as ‘Reminiscing from the Nwannunu, Kara Cronin and Bend a better place,” she said. Helpling, Jackie Picache and The candidates hope for an Rooftop,’ which would be a Calvin Belden hope to unite the Konkey is running with Alesandra Mendoza hope to enjoyable year and a more champagne toast from the roof sophomore class by ensuring Princely Muro, Kelsey Repine bring the experience they all close-knit class through greater of Eddy Street Commons,” she the class’s diverse interests are and Lauren Katen. According to gained as members of the variety in class apparel, a junior said. represented in the class council. Konkey, none of them have been Freshman Class Council to the retreat, a class Facebook page 
“We want to be able to appeal involved with student govern-Sophomore Class Council. and Twitter feed, and a uRocky Stroud, Jessica Choi, to everyone on campus and ment before running in this “We realized one of the major “Margaritaville” event during Chris Chung, Ali Unger build equality, unity and oppor-election. flaws in student government this the spring, which Doherty said Rocky Stroud, Jessica Choi, tunity,” Nwannunu said. “We are thinking of a seasonal year was the lack of communi-the ticket is particularly excited Chris Chung and Ali Unger hope 
The ticket plans to broaden class social event, like a tailgate cation between class councils,” for. to strengthen the sense of unity the range of internship and job in the fall, which really helps Krenselewski said. “If elected, Doherty said the ticket stands among members of the senior opportunities for students of all you meet new people in your we will focus on repairing that, out because of its candidates’ class through their focus on the majors. Nwannunu said they class,” she said. “We’re also as we feel it would make a big experience. “little things,” Stroud said. would examine inconsistencies thinking about a ‘Snow Ball’ for difference for not only student “We feel that our combined “What we have noticed is that between male and female dorms winter and a spring carnival.” government, but for the entire experience give us an advantage class councils throw a couple with regards to social gather-Konkey said she also wants a student body.” when it comes to working big events that a lot of people go ings. fundraiser event for the class of To fix the communication around red tape and producing to,” Stroud said. “What we want 
“Girls always say, ‘We’re so 2014. problem, Krenselewski said his great results for our class next to do is have a lot more little envious of guy dorms because “Dorms have one signature ticket will use a website, year,” he said. events that maybe not everyone you all get away with every-event [benefiting a charity],” she Facebook page, open town hall-goes to, but you have more thing,’” Nwannunu said. “We’re said. “We want a signature style meetings and an optional uFrancie Crowell, Brandon Vo, options.” going to make a push for more event for the class to have year-text messaging service to reach Kaitlyn Cole, Aaron Stumpf Some of these events include a equal treatment there.” ly.” out to members of the Class of As their campaign slogan “Tour of Religions,” giving sen-
The ticket’s other ideas Other possible projects are 2014. implies, sophomores Francie iors the opportunity to experi­include forming partnerships Domer Dollars for Eddy St. busi-Krenselewski said his ticket Crowell, Brandon Vo, Kaitlyn ence the different faiths repre­with local businesses and plan-nesses, more Huddle options hope to put other activites into Cole and Aaron Stumpf hope to sented on campus, senior class ning class retreats to cities such and Grab and Go meal flexibili-action next year, including trips bring a “fresh perspective” to bar crawls for students of legal as Washington, D.C., Chicago ty, she said. to off-campus locations, includ-the Junior Class Council. age and improved apparel, and New York. ing Chicago and Cedar Point, as The candidates identify three Stroud said. 
uNicole Michels, Pat Bedard, well as a class ski trip. categories of projects for next None of the students on this 
uTom Catalano, Erica Smith, Adam Talbot, Elizabeth Krenselewski and his running year, should they be elected: ticket has been part of class Jon Savakus, Rachel Kalinoski Linnemanstons mates want to create a greater uniting the junior class, giving council before, but they decided 
The goal of Tom Catalano’s Nicole Michels, Pat Bedard, sense of class unity. With “dress back to the community and to run together after being a ticket to foster class unity, he Adam Talbot and Elizabeth up days” on the 14th of every helping juniors prepare for their part of a physics study group. said. Linnemanstons plan to bring month, a day in which all sopho-future, Crowell said. “We wanted to use our talents 
“We want class-wide events,” their diverse interests and mores would wear the same All of Crowell’s ticket has hall to give back to the seniors and he said. “We want people to approachability to their seats on color, Krenselewski said sopho-council experience in their make new events that other know each other in our class.” the Sophomore Class Council if mores would feel a strong com-respective dorms. Crowell said people would be interested in,” 
Catalano is running with Erica elected. munity atmosphere. her lack of previous student Stroud said. Smith, Jon Savakus and Rachel “Our ticket is a diverse ticket “We want to create events for government experience will Kalinoski to represent the Class as far as interests go, as we rep-the Class of 2014 that are big-prove to be an asset in repre-uParker King, Ben German, of 2014. resent many different aspects of ger, better and more attended senting the average Notre Dame Alicia Elliott, Brinya Bjork 
Catalano said his ticket hopes our student body,” Michels said. than this year’s events,” junior. Parker King, Ben German, to plan events such as a class “We encompass people in varsi-Krenselewski said. “We think we come from a Alicia Elliott and Brinya Bjork dance to bring the class togeth-ty athletics, music, ROTC and more diverse background, not hope to use their extensive er. He said the dance would student government, all factors • Nicholas Schilling, Paul having already been part of that experience in campus leader-hopefully be a formal, but possi-which I think allow us to easily DiGiovanni, Mary Clare Rigali, system,” she said. “So we’ll ship to help seniors accomplish bly an SYR for the entire class. connect to members of our Margaret Preuss more easily be able to portray the “Notre Dame Bucket List,” 
“We also want to have open class.” Nicholas Schilling said his what the students want.” King said. ticket seeks to overcome class “It’s our last year on campus, communication and unity issues, • Mike Weiss, Julianne and we want to make it awe-if elected to the Sophomore Crimmins, Mike Kress, Sean some,” King said. Class Council. Hannon Some of these Bucket List 
‘Domerfest 2.0’ is one of the Mike Weiss, Julianne events include a meeting with major events Schilling and his Crimmins, Mike Kress and Sean University President Emeritus ticket hope to plan in the com-Hannon hope to combine new Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and a ing school year. ideas with past experience to dinner in the press box, King 
“At the beginning of the year, preside over next year’s Junior said. none of us really knew one Class Council. This ticket would also like to another,” Schilling said. “We Weiss emphasized community establish a career development think holding another Domerfest outreach, a wider variety of committee to prepare seniors for sophomores will be exponen-class apparel and class trips to a for work post-graduation, tially more fun than the Cubs game and Cedar Point as German said. Domerfest held during freshman some of his ticket’s plans for “We want to work with the orientation.” next year. Alumni Association to try and 
Schilling said his ticket’s expe-Several years of working in help seniors build some profes­rience on Freshman Class student government has given sional contacts before they Council will be integral to next him an ability to set realistic graduate,” German said. year’s Sophomore Class Council and achievable goals, Weiss All of the members of this working well. said. The rest of his ticket has ticket have served on class 
Other activities planned for similar experience. councils in the past so they are next year include spending left-“Not only do we have new familiar with the process of over funds from this year’s ideas, but with our experience planning and executing events, Freshman Class Council on a we can definitely execute them,” German said. class ski trip to a resort in Weiss said. “We have a good blend of Michigan and a class-wide experience,” German said. “We ‘assassins’ fundraiser. Senior Class Council know what kind of events peo-
Schilling also hopes to create • Anne Huntington, Mike ple would enjoy.” and sell “glowsaries,” glow-in-Oliver, Brittni Alexander, Tyler the-dark rosaries to be used at Harmsen Contact John Cameron at class trips of the Grotto. Anne Huntington, Mike Oliver, jcamero2@nd.edu, Melissa 
“We feel that we will give the Brittni Alexander and Tyler Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu, Sophomore Class Council a dif-Harmsen’s plan for next year’s Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu, ferent personality,” he said. graduating class centers on fun Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu “Which will lead to the creation activities and memorable expe-and Sam Stryker at of more events, making next riences, Huntington said. sstryke1@nd.edu. 


page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 28, 2011 Monday, February 28, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
together and how it affects each individual person,” Zupancic said. 
Gans said the coming weeks will include training from the cur­rent SGA president and vice pres­ident, seniors Rachael Chesley and Laura Smith, to gain some perspective before entering office. 
“[Zupancic] and I will be shad­owing and meeting with [Chesley] and [Smith] to learn more about their individual roles and respon­sibilities,” Gans said. “We will also be talking and meeting with cur­rent board members to get feed­back on what they thought about the past year, and any changes they would make.” 
In their campaign, Gans and Zupancic said they wanted to improve technology on campus, continue the current renovation of Le Mans Hall basement, better communication between students and their government, and would like to see accomplished by the end of the academic year. 
“We would like to see at least one printer in one dorm, which is what the cur­rent administra­tion is working on accomplishing before turnover,” Zupancic said. “It would be great to continue working on that until the end of the school year.” 

“We are extremely honored to be serving the Saint Mary’s student body and we hope the students view us as a resource for support, guidance and infomation.” 
Jackie Zupancic vice president-elect Student Government Association 
ized as possible over the summer by having all of our plans laid out in complete detail,” Gans said. 
Overall, the two said they are excited to enter office. 
“We are extremely hon­ored to be serving the Saint Mary’s student body and we hope that the students view us as a resource for 

Additionally, they hope to con-support, guidance and informa­tinue work on Le Mans Hall tion,” Zupancic said. basement until May. 
During the summer months, Contact Ashley Charnley at Gans said the two will prepare acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Juniors Nicole Gans, right, and Jackie Zupancic won last week’s race for Saint Mary’s Student Government Association president and vice president. 
Unions demonstrate at Wisconsin Capitol 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. — The occupation of the Wisconsin Capitol by protesters fighting efforts to strip public work­ers of union bargaining rights carried on Sunday after police decided not to forcibly remove demonstra­tors and end a nearly two-week-long sit-in. 
Roughly three hours after a deadline to vacate the building had passed and as police officers continued to look on quietly, protest coor­dinator Erika Wolf took to a microphone and announced: “There’s really awesomely good news — that we’re going to be able to stay here tonight.” 
A cheer went up from the several hundred protesters who had ignored a request from the state agency that oversees the Capitol to leave by 4 p.m. so that the normal­ly immaculate building could get a thorough cleaning. 
“If you want to leave — it’s totally cool, because the doors will be open around 8 a.m.” on Monday, said Wolf, 25, who works with the United Council of University of Wisconsin Students. 
But many said they would stay and again sleep inside the Capitol, which protesters have filled with chants, cat­calls and song since their demonstration began on Feb. 15. 
“It was a victory for peace. It was a victory for democra­cy,” said Kara Randall, 46, a massage therapist from Middleton who had already spent five nights at the Capitol. 
Demonstrators began camping out inside the Capitol two weeks ago in an effort to fight legislation pro­posed by Wisconsin’s new Republican governor, Scott Walker, that would strip most of the state’s public employees of the right to col­lectively bargain. 
Labor leaders and Democratic lawmakers say the bill is intended to under­mine the unions and weaken a key base of Democratic Party voters. 
Walker argues the Republican-backed measure would help close a projected $3.6 billion deficit in the 2011-13 budget, and that freeing local governments from having to collectively bargain with public employ­ee unions would give them the flexibility needed to deal with forthcoming budget cuts. 
Wisconsin Capitol Police Chief Charles Tubbs said demonstrators who had occupied all three floors of the Capitol would have to relocate to the ground floor overnight. Anyone who left the building was barred from returning until Monday morning, although police did allow union officials to bring food into the building for the protesters. 
No demonstrators would be arrested as long as they continue to obey the law, Tubbs said. By late evening, the air smelled of pizza and lemon-scented disinfectant as demonstrators quietly ate dinner and several janitors worked around them to clean the Capitol’s marble floors. 
“People here have acted lawfully and responsibly,” Tubbs said. “There’s no rea­son to consider arrests.” 
Walker’s spokesman declined late Sunday to com­ment on the police decision to keep the Capitol open to the demonstrators. In an interview earlier in the day on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Walker said the lengthy protests haven’t eroded his resolve to push forward with his legislative agenda. 
“Year after year, governors and legislators before us have kicked the can down the road,” Walker said. “We can’t do that. We’re broke. It’s about time someone stood up and told the truth in our state and said here’s our problem, here’s the solu­tion and let’s do this.” 
Walker’s proposal stalled in the state Senate when its 14 Democratic lawmakers fled the state for Illinois, leaving the legislative body one vote short of a quorum. The Democratic senators have vowed to stay away from Wisconsin for as long as it takes. 
One of the Democrats, Sen. Lena Taylor, tweeted her support to the protesters who remained: “Thank you for exercising your 1st amend right -I’m glad my actions give you opportunity to stand/sit/express your­self!” 
Sue Knetsch, 53, of Waupaca, said she stayed away from the Capitol throughout the nearly two weeks of protests, but that she brought her 21-year-old son, Taylor, to the Capitol on Sunday as a lesson in democracy. 
“I just want him to know you can do something — his generation is walking around passively saying, ‘It doesn’t matter,’” said Knetsch, who said she had been arrested at age 17 while protesting the Vietnam War. “This is awesome. I’m a little nostalgic.” 
increase community involvement, according to the ticket’s website. 
Even though there will only be a little over a month left once they take office, Zupancic said the two do have a couple of goals they for another SGA retreat that was started by Chesley and Smith and get organized for the coming academic year. 
“[Zupancic] and I hope to become as prepared and organ-



Photo courtesy of Jacqualyn Zupancic 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, February 28, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Early pressures 
What are you doing this summer? I have no idea where I’ll be or what I’ll be doing, and it’s giving me midterm-level anxiety. Most adults I know — and even some of my pro­fessors — don’t see this as a problem. One of my former pro­fessors recently suggested I sell Mexican blankets on the side of the road — he was kidding, but it sounded far 

John Cameron 
more appealing than filling out yet another News internship appli-Production cation. 
Editor 
But I’m in Mendoza, and it seems like the usual list of Notre Dame conversation starters about your dorm, hometown, major and whether you’re a double, triple or quintuple legacy, has been expanded to include a dreaded question: 
“What are your summer plans? ISSLP in Uganda? Goldman analyst? Congressional page? Oh, you’re life­guarding? I guess we can still be friends.” 
From what I’ve heard, it seems like years ago, internships happened the summer before senior year. Now, it seems like high school sophomores are expected to work 90-hour weeks at a hedge fund. What’s changed? 
It might just be another conse­quence of the increasing competi­tiveness of the academic and busi­ness worlds. Or maybe we’re all just spastic. 
Either way, somehow our dads managed to avoid chronic unemploy­ment without doing cancer research over their college summers. 
I’m a pretty think-in-the-now type of person. Or rather, I like to put off any future-related decisions until, well, the future. Ask anyone who knows me — I submitted my major choice about an hour before the deadline and I accepted admission to Notre Dame with two days to spare. So the concept of finding the time to get an externship for this summer (so I can have a chance at an intern­ship next summer, so I can have a chance at a full-time job the next year) is completely overwhelming. 
And let’s be real: What skill set could I, or most sophomores, possi­bly bring to any bank, law firm or advertising agency? Half of us just learned what a cash flow is. Either there is some serious on-the-job training or students with internship offers can look forward to 10 weeks of coffee-fetching and envelope-stuffing (maybe with some sprinkles of financial modeling). 
Don’t get me wrong. I think getting your foot into the metaphorical career door early can’t be a bad thing. I just wonder how much earli­er the pressure’s going to start hit­ting Notre Dame students ten years from now. What I do know is, I’m buying my future children Wall Street Journal subscriptions in­utero. I have to go troll Go Irish. Make sure your tots bring their A-game to pre-K. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact John Cameron at John.W.Cameron.13@nd.edu 

A persistent pattern 
When the wise speak ... 
Elie Wiesel tells the story of a just man who goes into a city and screams continually, trying to get the people in the city to change their ways for the better. At first the people take notice of this new sight, but finally they call him naive; they ignore him. He continues to scream; he contin­ues to fight. A Alex Coccia child asks him, “Sir, no one is lis-

Shard of Glass

tening to you, why are you still fight­ing?” “At first, I wanted to change these people,” says the just man, “but now when you hear me scream, it is so that I do not let them change me.” 
Now let’s move this story to South Bend in a place called the University of Notre Dame. Members of the Campus Labor Action Project have been calling on Notre Dame to divest from HEI, a hotel and resort company which has in the past faced allegations of abuses of worker rights, including staff cuts, eliminating job functions, ignoring breaks mandated by state-law, low wages and limiting work supplies. HEI is being investigated by the National Labor Relations Board — an independ­ent federal agency with the power to protect the rights of workers — on charges including making retaliatory reductions in workers’ schedules, pro­hibiting workers from posting pro-union materials on bulletin boards, con­ducting unlawful surveillance of work­ers and interrogating workers about their actions, instructing workers not to 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
communicate with the public about their working conditions and suspend­ing a worker in Irvine in retaliation for engaging in pro-union activity protected by the National Labor Relations Act. While the University has not yet acted on the calls to action by its students who continue to fight for the rights of workers, perhaps they will listen now that Brown University has spoken on the issue. 
Brown responded to a recommenda­tion from the Advisory Committee on Corporate Responsibility in Investment Policy (ACCRIP) within Brown University which stated: “After thought­ful deliberations, ACCRIP concluded that while HEI had not been found guilty of violations of the labor code, a persistent pattern of allegations involv­ing the company’s treatment of workers and interference with their efforts to unionize, combined with repeated set­tlements ... raised serious questions whether Brown’s continued association with HEI would be consistent with the ethical principles governing the univer­sity’s investments. ACCRIP has recom­mended, therefore, that Brown University should refrain from reinvest­ing in HEI until the Corporation is confi­dent that HEI adheres to our high stan­dards regarding respectful and humane treatment of workers, and that workers at HEI-operated hotels are able to seek union representation without fear of intimidation.” Brown, a member of the Ivy League and a top-20 national uni­versity, has decided not to reinvest with HEI once their current 10-year invest­ment that was begun in 2006 is over. 
The significance of Brown’s decision is that it lends credence to committed students who have been working at Yale, Princeton, Harvard, Penn, Chicago, Vanderbilt and Notre Dame to help their institutions align necessary investment with ethical practice. Like the just man, these students have con­tinued to scream, but unlike in the story of the just man someone is finally lis­tening. Brown did not dismiss the opin­ions of the students. Brown took what they had to say under consideration by its advisory committee who had been pressured again and again by the stu­dents, faculty and staff, encouraging them to reexamine their investments. 
The Notre Dame students fighting for the rights of HEI workers believe that Catholic Social Teaching should require Notre Dame to divest from HEI. Catholic Social Teaching provides for the protec­tion of the dignity of workers. Therefore, it provides for the protection of the rights of workers to be paid a liv­ing wage, to organize and join unions. When there are people or entities fight­ing for basic human rights, it is usually best to listen — whether it is to the Ivy League Brown University, or to the workers themselves who report unfair working conditions, or to the groups like United Students Against Sweatshops or Campus Labor Action Project, or even to individual students. We all should listen to Catholic Social Teaching. Brown’s decision should be a further impetus for Notre Dame to thor­oughly investigate the status of its investments. There is no doubt that this will take effort on the part of Notre Dame — managing a university’s invest­ments is complicated. But following Catholic Social Teaching is not a sacri­fice, it is an investment. 
... listen. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Anatole France French novelist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“To be conscious that you areignorant is a great stepto knowledge.” 
Benjamin DisraeliBritish politician 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, February 28, 2011 page 9 
The other side 
I am a member of the elite group known as Notre Dame Alumni, along with my grandfather, father and two brothers. I have an amazing, loving and supportive family and a group of close friends who I wouldn’t trade for 
Cullen Hardy 
the world. I am a second year doc-
Guest 
toral student in 
Columnist 
New Hampshire and have never been happier. But things were not always this way. While attending Notre Dame, I suffered from severe depres­sion and anxiety and I engaged in self-mutilation, anorexia and bulimia. I also became an alcoholic, and I always will be. Although my last drink was on November 10, 2006, my next one could easily be tomorrow if I become compla­cent. My sobriety must always remain my top priority, and those closest to me understand that. 
I began my Notre Dame career in the fall of 2000 and graduated in the spring of 2009. I participated in every self-destructive behavior imaginable during my career at Notre Dame and burnt almost every bridge I built. I’ve hurt my family, friends and many people I didn’t know numerous times. My early years at Notre Dame were peppered with Res-Life visits, legal problems, time away from the University, arrests, bouts of depression, countless instances of acting out and feelings of hopelessness and loneliness I wouldn’t wish on my worst enemy. Most days were focused on spreading my own misery. I consid­ered a successful day one where I ruined someone else’s. I was a menace and I loved every minute of it. I would smile at others’ misfortunes and most everything I said was a lie, especially to those closest to me. I cheated on my girlfriend on a weekly basis and laughed about it the next day. I hated everything about myself and frequently wished for a natural disaster or acci­dent to end it all for me. I knew I was too much of a coward to commit sui­cide. 

Alcoholism, depression and other mental disorders are prevalent on col­lege campuses today, and Notre Dame is no exception. Our “Notre Dame bub­ble” may be picturesque but many stu­dents are suffering. There are alco­holics, cutters, anorexics, bulimics, stu­dents suffering from mild, moderate or severe depression and even suicidal students on campus right now and I want to say to those experiencing dis­tress, you are not alone. We need to be aware of these issues and make a greater effort to identify and help those needing assistance. More student spon­sored groups should be available that offer peer support in a safe and confi­dential environment. We also need to educate the student body about mental disorders and addiction so they aren’t taboo topics. The reality is that these issues exist and affect many of those around us. 
If you feel alcohol is the root of your problems, whether it is in classes, rela­tionships, or other aspects of your life, you have to reach out and ask for help. I thought my mandatory alcohol educa­tion classes were a joke and lied on every questionnaire I received about my drinking habits. Change, even posi­tive change, was always a scary prospect for me. I was comfortable being miserable, angry and depressed and I knew these feelings well. I was happy in my own unhappiness. Do not be scared of getting better. I was. It is a frightening experience because you dive right into the depths of your unhappiness, insecurities and self-hatred, but this is the only way to get better. 
Ask for help. Talk to a favorite profes­sor, rector, dean, friend, relative, priest or sister and they can help you or accompany you in finding the proper assistance you require. Not only did Professor McKenna and Dean Preacher support and guide my academic career but they also showed care and concern for me as a person during my rehabili­tation. I am blessed to have two life­long friends and I love them both. You don’t have to go through this alone. 
I have been sober for over four years and am getting a doctorate in clinical psychology. The past ten years have led me to a future career as a therapist where I will be able to use my first­hand experiences, knowledge and insight to help those in need. I often tell people I’m thankful for being an alco­holic because I never would have found my true calling as a Clinical Psychologist if I never had these diffi­culties. I also firmly believe that, with­out going through this journey, I never would have reached a level of such hap­piness and inner peace. I was fortunate to experience my final year at Notre Dame sober, with an appreciation for life and with feelings of self-love that I had never felt. Notre Dame is truly one of the most beautiful places I have ever seen and we are all blessed to be a part of this great university. I experienced Notre Dame at my lowest and my high­est and, no matter how bad things may seem, they don’t have to stay that way. Rehabilitation and recovery are the hardest things you will ever do but the inner peace and self-love attained is priceless. You must be honest with yourself, ask for help, and be willing to do the hard work; trust me, it’s worth it. As with all recovery, mine is an ongoing process and will take a life­long commitment — one I’m happy to make. There is light at the end of the dark tunnel many of you or your friends are traveling through and if I can get there, so can you. 
Cullen Hardy is a graduate of the class of 2009. He can be reached at chardy1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Oil companies responsible 
The National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill recommended this month that Congress raise the current $75 million liability cap for oil compa­nies, but did not offer a specific proposal or dollar 
amount.  
The liability cap limits the  
amount oil companies are legally obligated to pay those who file  Lydia Harvey  
claims against them after envi- The Oracle  
ronmental disasters. Once the  
cost exceeds the cap, taxpayer  
dollars fund the recovery.  

A bill that aimed to remove the $75 million cap passed in the House of Representatives last summer, but negoti­ations regarding a new cap killed the bill in the Senate. Industry allies have argued that removing the cap would make it impossible for smaller companies to afford the insurance required to drill offshore. 
But if a company can’t afford to clean up its own potential mess, it shouldn’t be encouraged to make one in the first place. Any liability cap, no matter how high, is an insult to the people who feel the harshest effects of an oil spill. 
According to MSNBC, estimates of the total cost for cleanup and claims in last year’s Deepwater Horizon dis­aster reached $70 billion. Frank Glaviano, former vice president of Shell Exploration and Production, said to MSNBC that no amount of money will be able to repair the damage that was done by the spill. 
According to restorethegulf.gov, the Deepwater Horizon well gushed an estimated 62,000 barrels of oil per day into the Gulf of Mexico at the height of the spill, leaking approximately 4.9 million barrels overall. President Barack Obama described the disaster as the worst the country has faced. 
BP set up a $20 billion claims escrow fund. However, the national commission released a report this month saying that many claimants are dissatisfied with the amounts of their payments. Others received no pay­ments at all after dealing with the messy claims process. 
Fishing and tourism bring more than $120 billion to the area surrounding the Gulf each year, according to MSNBC, and fishing operations were shut down for months during and after the spill. Oil touched 650 miles of coastal land, according to the National Resources Defense Council. The environmental and economic dam­age is still being tallied. 
Additionally, marine toxicologist Riki Ott estimated that 4 to 5 million residents had been exposed to dan­gerous amounts of oil, according to Bridge the Gulf, a group supporting environmental justice in the Gulf. 

When a spill halts business, transforms industries, impacts the environment and alters human health, the oil company at fault should pay every legitimate claim, even if it goes belly up. 
The cap discourages companies from investing in safe­ty innovations, which might cost more than the cap itself. 
Sure, if the cap were removed, smaller companies may be discouraged. Higher insurance costs might eventually drive up the price of gas or force companies to move out of the Gulf completely for fear of drilling in risky areas. 
But the countless animals that suffered from suffoca­tion, hypothermia, pneumonia, drowning, starvation, cancer, chemical burns, ulcers, digestive tract bleeding, infection, diarrhea, kidney damage, liver damage, ane­mia, intestinal disorders and painful deaths would likely approve of unlimited liability’s side effects. 
The scary part is that 27,000 wells are currently aban­doned and unchecked in the Gulf of Mexico, according to the Associated Press. Many have been abandoned since the ‘40s, ‘50s and ‘60s. 
BP alone has abandoned 600 wells. 
According to the AP, tens of thousands may be badly sealed, because they were drilled before strict regula­tions or the operating companies violated rules. 
After wells are abandoned, no one checks for leaks. Environmental Protection Agency data shows that 17 percent of wells on land had been improperly plugged. If that percentage is synonymous offshore, 4,600 wells in the Gulf could be defectively plugged. 
Shoddy plugs, age, corrosion and natural changes below the sea level can cause a well to fail. Petroleum engineer John Getty said to the AP that abandoned wells may eventually leak after decades of aging. 
Since 1978, poor cement jobs have been cited 34 times in accident and incident reports on offshore wells, according to an AP review. 
Oil companies are taking risks to make enormous prof­it. They should be held limitlessly accountable for mis­takes that could harm an entire region for generations. Those who can’t afford the responsibility that comes with putting an entire ecosystem in harm’s way should not consider going into such a dangerous business. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 21 edition of The Oracle, the daily publication serving the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Healthy conversation 
Monday evening at Saint Mary’s College, I climbed the stairs of Carroll Auditorium’s stage in teetering, leopard print wedges. With a pink golfball clutched in my hand to ease my nerves, I gritted my teeth, gave one last hair toss and praised God I did not trip. I then looked out into the audience of nearly 150 strangers and friends and took a deep breath. My hands shook and my voice crackled as I began speaking about my journey through an illness which almost claimed my life. 
Speaking publically about my battle with anorexia was not something I ever intended to do. Until recently, I vowed I would always keep the matter private to avoid the eating disorder from defining my identity. The majority of society has little insight into these baffling illnesses, but one thing is clear: As we have neglected to talk openly about eating disorders, the number of suf­ferers has risen to an estimated 25 million in America alone. So I tossed my preference for privacy out of my third-floor window in hopes that it would be enough to help even just one person in even the smallest of ways. 
I was apprehensive as to how the audience would react. But in the days following the event, I have been met with more words of gratitude and encouragement than I could have ever imagined. The response has been overwhelmingly positive and has really and truly warmed my heart. I wish I had a guestbook so I could send personal thank you notes to each and every one of you. 
I am lucky, and very grateful, to have survived. My life has resumed with color, meaning and yes, food. But throughout this entire journey, I have never felt as uplifted as I do now. So to the very special people who filled the room on Monday night and/or shared words of encouragement, know your support and kindness have made a huge difference in my life. It has reaffirmed why I chose to share my story in the first place and made me feel more committed to my recovery. I hope my initiative will spark further conversation with regards to eating disorder awareness in this community in the time to come. 
Thank you from every nook and cranny of my heart. 
Christina Grasso 
senior Le Mans Hall Feb. 24 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, February 28, 2011 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, February 28, 2011 page 11 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Jenny Bevan Spotted: Bond Quad Jenny was heading to Bond Hall when I found her wearing this really cool outfit. She combines a light camel button-down shirt with a black coat and some light washed jeans. Her dark lace-up boots are very much in style right now and her printed scarf and glasses complete the look per­fectly. With coffee in hand, Jenny is ready to study and finish her architecture projects. She looks great! 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 28, 2011 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Louisville records overtime win against Pittsburgh 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Kyle Kuric scored 12 points, including two big baskets in 
overtime, to lead No. 16 Louisville past No. 4 Pittsburgh 62-59 on Sunday. 
Kuric had a potential game-winning layup blocked at the end of regulation, but atoned by hitting a 3-pointer early in the extra session then adding the clinching dunk with less than a second on the clock. 
Then things got a little bizarre. 
The clock didn’t stop after the basket, which put the Cardinals up 62-57, and the horn sounded. Some Louisville cheerleaders on the baseline raced onto the floor, with one male cheerleader grabbing the ball and tossing it in the air. 
Officials called Louisville for a delay of game technical foul and put .5 seconds back on the clock. Pitt’s Ashton Gibbs knocked down two free throws and the Panthers had one last chance to tie, but Gibbs couldn’t get off a des­peration heave in time. 
Peyton Siva led the Cardinals (22 -7, 11 -5 Big East) with 14 points and Mike Marra added 11 off the bench for Louisville, which remained unbeaten at home in conference play and knocked off a top-five team for the second time this sea­son. 
Gilbert Brown scored 20 points and Brad Wanamaker had 13 points, 12 rebounds and six assists for the Panthers (25-4, 13-3), but Pitt turned it over three times and missed all three of its field goal attempts in overtime. 
The most painful miss came with about 5 seconds to go when Wanamaker passed up a 3-pointer with the Panthers trailing by three and tried to hit Brown under the basket instead. The ball rolled out and Louisville ’s Terrence Jennings came away with it. 
Jennings hit Siva with an outlet pass, who fed Kuric for the dunk. 
Gibbs’ final heave was a fit­ting end to a tough day — he finished with 14 points on 3­of-11 shooting. 
The Cardinals played the nation’s best rebounding team even on the glass. Pitt, whose plus-11 rebounding margin is tops in the country, outre­bounded the Cardinals by just one, 39-38. 
Still, the Panthers had their chances thanks to Wanamaker, who did a little bit of everything. He hit three big shots in the second half as Pitt erased a 12-point deficit to tie the game three times in the final 3:37. 
The last one, a confident 18-footer, knotted the game at 56 with 17.1 to play. 
Siva drove the lane but his shot was swatted out of bounds by Gary McGhee. The Cardinals ran a back screen for Kuric, who hit a game-winning layup against Marquette from the same spot Jan. 15. 
Not this time. Wanamaker swallowed it and sent the game to overtime. 
Kuric hardly looked both­ered. He calmly drilled a 3­pointer on Louisville’s second possession of the extra peri­
od, and the Panthers self ­destructed. 
Brown was called for a charge, then Siva swiped the ball from Travon Woodall. Officials called McGhee for traveling on Pittsburgh’s next trip, allowing the Cardinals to continue to drain the clock. 
Pitt’s second loss in its last three games means the Panthers have just a one ­game lead over Notre Dame heading into the final week of the season. The Panthers travel to South Florida on Wednesday and close the sea­son at home against Villanova on March 5. 
Pitt will need to finish ahead of the Irish in the standings to win the title. Notre Dame beat the Panthers 56-51 on Jan. 24. 
Louisville held its own against the bigger, stronger Panthers from the outset. The Cardinals extended their matchup zone in an effort to get Gibbs out of rhythm, and it worked. 
He missed all five of his field goal attempts in the first half. Then again, his team­mates weren’t much better. Pittsburgh went more than 10 minutes without a basket as Louisville built a 24-12 lead. 
Wanamaker ended the drought with a runner, and for a brief moment, the Panthers woke up. They closed to within 26-22 on a jumper from Brown, but Marra responded with a 3­pointer and Siva added a pair of free throws just before the horn to give Louisville a 31­22 lead at the break. The nine-point deficit was the sec-ond-largest for the Panthers this season, behind a 12-point hole they faced in a loss to Tennessee back in December. 

Wanamaker almost led the Panthers all the way back. Almost. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Calhoun returns as Huskies beat Cincinnati 
Associated Press  29 seconds. “We basically had to act like  to deny Walker, leaving open­ings on the perimeter.  ing him in the second half. Walker made a 3-pointer from  t e am s ov e r t he la st f ew years,” Calhoun said. “This is  
CINCINNAT I  — Don ’t  g e t  we  had something to prove,”  “T hey  w e re  s o  w o rrie d  the top of the key  a  few  sec- one of my favorite teams of all  
Kemba Walker riled.  said Shabazz Napier, who had  about me, the other guys were  onds later, turned and smiled  time.”  
Walker scored 11 of his 16  11 points and six assists. “We  able to get shots and they took  at the fan as he ran down the  The Huskies appeared to be  
points in the second half, after  got  a  lead and kept  on  going  it to them,” Walker said.  court.  He had  a  steal for  a  in trouble when Walker picked  
a courtside fan took to taunt- with it.”  Yancy Gates had 14 points  fast-break score, then made  up his third foul with 16:37 to  
i n g h im ,  a n d  14 t h-ra nk e d  Walker, who leads the  con- for Cincinnati, which has lost  another jumper for  a  56-45  go  an d  Ca sh me re  Wr i g ht  
Connecticut snapped out of its  ference in scoring at 23 points  three of its last four home  lead and said something to the  made both free throws for  a  
slump by beating Cincinnati  per game, had only nine when  games. The Bearcats had won  fan, who wouldn’t taunt him  33-32 lead, Cincinnati’s only  
67-59 on Sunday.  a  fan sitting courtside started  their last three overall, includ­ again.  one in the game. It didn’t last  
The Huskies (21-7, 9-7 Big  taunting him. Walker made  ing victories  over  Louisville  It  was  a  r o ug h  wee k  f or  long.  
East) were coming off back-to­ three consecutive baskets that  and Georgetown that put them  Calhoun, who took responsi- Th e  3  g ot  UCon n  b ack  
back losses, including an over­ built Connecticut’s lead to 11  in position to make the NCAA  bility Friday for recruiting vio­ a he ad .  Ros c o e  Smi t h  a nd  
time defeat at Marquette  on  points, then smiled at the fan  tournament for the first time  lations. The school was put on  Na p i er  ma d e  s hots  f ro m  
Thursday without coach Jim  as he went down the court.  since Bob Huggins was coach.  three years’ probation, lost  behind the  arc  during  a  12-2  
C al ho u n.  T he  68-yea r-o l d  “I missed a shot and he said,  Their guards couldn’t keep  s c hola rsh ip s  a nd  r ec eiv ed  ru n  th at  g av e  the  Hus kie s  
coach  was  with his family in  ‘Chris Paul wouldn’t miss that  up with the inspired Walker  r e c r uit i ng  r e st ri ct i o ns .  their biggest lead, 47-37, with  
N e w  Ham p s hire  af t e r  t h e  shot,’” Walker said, referring  and company.  Calhoun got a three-game sus­ 1 2 : 1 8  t o  g o.  T h e n  Wa lke r  
death of his sister-in-law.  to  the New Orleans gu ar d.  “O u r  g ua r ds  g ot  a s  o ut-pension that he will  serve  at  made his three consecutive  
UConn hadn’t dropped three  “That’s all right. I came down  played  as  you possibly could  the start of the 2011-12 Big  shots to put UConn in control  
in a row all season and came  and made the next one. It was  t oda y,” c oa c h M ick C ron i n  East season.  the rest of the way.  
out with a little extra determi­ fun.”  said.  C a lh o un  re f er r e d  t o  th e  The long-range shooting was  
nation against Cincinnati (22­ Jeremy Lamb added 17 for  Walker got rolling against  emotional week and praised  quite  ou t  o f  c ha r a c t er.  
7, 9-7), which  was  on  a  hot  the Huskies, who went 10 of  the league’s stingiest defense  his young players for coming  Connecticut ranks 12th in the  
streak.  19 from behind the 3-point  w h e n  a  f a n  s i t t in g  i n  t h e  through.  Big East, making 33.5 percent  
The Huskies led for all but  arc. Cincinnati set its defense  courtside seats started taunt­ “I’ve had  some  very good  of its 3-point attempts.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxury options at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings, Oak Hill and North Shore Club. CES Property Management. Call 574-298-4206, www.cespm.info 
———————————————— GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: House for rent for gradua­tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons-walk to everything-safe family oriented street. Email nd-house@sbcglob­al.net for additional info and photos 
———————————————— 

NOTICES 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
———————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
———————————————— 
WANTED 
ND/SMC couple in Dallas, Texas seeks full-time nanny for 15 months beginning June 2011. If interested, please email hdawson1@hotmail.com. 
———————————————— A murderer is condemned to death. He has to choose between three rooms. The first is full of raging fires the second is full of assassins with loaded guns and the third is full of lions that haven"t eaten in 3 years. Which room is safest for him? 
-The third. Lions that haven"t eaten in three years are dead. 
———————————————— 

Monday, February 28, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Thomas leads No. 2 Buckeyes past Hoosiers 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — A lot of things were going Indiana’s way before a native son did in the Hoosiers. 
Deshaun Thomas, last year’s Indiana Mr. Basketball, came out of a slump with 22 points to lead No. 2 Ohio State past Indiana 82-61 on Sunday. 
Thomas scored all the points during a 14-3 first-half run that spanned 3:36 and turned the game into a rout. He had managed just 13 points in his last seven games. 
“After I hit my first two 3s, I felt kind of warm,” said Thomas, a 6-foot-6 freshman who’s prepared to pump up shots the minute he jumps out of bed. “I felt kind of comfort­able.” 
Thomas, who Indiana coach Tom Crean had tried to recruit after he had verbally committed to Ohio State, was the story for the Buckeyes in the first half. He gave them a lift after starters Jared Sullinger, David Lighty and Dallas Lauderdale got in early foul trouble. 
“Deshaun came in and gave us a tremendous boost,” Ohio State coach Thad Matta said. “He hit a couple of shots and I told him during a timeout that I liked him making shots but I thought he was really playing hard on defense as well. That was a big focus coming into this game.” 
Thomas finished his career at Fort Wayne’s Bishop Luers High School with 3,018 points, third most among all Indiana schoolboys behind Damon Bailey and Marion Pierce. 
Indiana, which hasn’t beat­en a Top 25 team on the road in more than nine years, led 8-7 after Derek Elston scis­sored through the lane for a layup at the 16:35 mark, but didn’t score again for almost 8 minutes until Elston scored again on a short jumper. 
Then Thomas took over, hit­ting two foul shots and swish­ing back-to-back 3-pointers. He took an assist pass from Lauderdale for another buck­et inside, then spun in a reverse layup and ended the run with another reverse move off glass. 
“He was hitting open shots. Give credit to him,” Crean said. “He made big plays. He’s one of the all-time leading scorers in the history of Indiana, so he can score. And today it was his day and we didn’t do a good enough job of guarding him.” 
The Buckeyes led 38-23 at the half, with Thomas totaling 16 points on 6-of-7 shooting from the field, his only miss coming on a shot behind the arc. 
Indiana never seriously threatened again. 
Even though Thomas has seen only sparse playing time the past few weeks, his team­mates know he can light it up. He’s been known to string together 3s when he gets “warm.” 
“We see it every day in practice,” said David Lighty, who had 11 points for the Buckeyes (27 -2, 14 -2 Big Ten). “Once he gets it going, there’s really no way to stop him — just try to keep it out of his hands.” 
Thomas speaks of his scor­ing ability as if it’s a power that overtakes him. 
“It’s a God-given gift,” he said. “I just did what I had to do.” 
William Buford added 15 points and Jon Diebler had 11 for the Buckeyes, likely to ascend to No. 1 next week after top-ranked Duke lost at Virginia Tech on Saturday night. The defeat was Indiana’s sixth in a row to Ohio State. 
Matta didn’t shy away from talk about being No. 1. 
“Honestly, it’s just some­thing that comes along with it,” he said. “The one thing I’ve always said — I think I said it in October when you guys asked me about our ranking — is that we really want to be there in the end.” 
Sullinger, leading Ohio State in scoring (17.8) and rebound­ing (9.9), was limited to five points and seven rebounds in just 13 minutes. 
The victory helped Ohio State maintain a one-game lead in the Big Ten with two games remaining — at Penn State on Tuesday night and home against Wisconsin on Sunday. It was Wisconsin that hung the first loss on the Buckeyes on Feb. 12 in Madison. 
Verdell Jones III had 14 points for the Hoosiers (12-17, 3-13), who have lost six in a row and remain the only Big Ten team without a road win this season (0-10). They were playing consecutive games against top-10 teams for the first time since 2004 after los­ing to No. 8 Purdue on Wednesday night, 72-61. 

Crean’s temper flared when Matta spoke to the officials at the end of the half. Crean made sure he also joined the conversation. 
“I don’t do it and I don’t think coaches should get a free conference with the offi­cials at halftime,” he said. “That’s happened to us, noth­ing was done about it, and I wasn’t going to stand back and not be a part of that. Whether it’s gamesmanship, whatever it is, it’s the way that it is. The half is over. The officials are supposed to be leaving the floor, as are the teams, and that didn’t hap­pen.” 

NFL 

Lockout causes rookies challenges 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Florida defensive back Ahmad Black would prefer to focus on foot­ball. 
Instead, he’s getting a crash course in labor negotiations, lockout rules, even the possible implementation of a rookie wage scale. 
These new obstacles are threatening to make the transi­tion from college football to the NFL more complicated than usual, even if the players don’t want to admit it. 
“Hey, it’s better than doing it for free,” Black said Sunday at the NFL’s annual scouting com­bine. “I’m going to get a little bit of something (in a contract).” 
Black, like most of the 329 draft prospects in Indianapolis this weekend, is trying to stay away from the discussion that has overshadowed one of the league’s biggest and busiest off­season events. 
Normally, the discussion in Indy centers on 40-yard dash times and bench press repeti­tions. 
This year, the showcase has expanded to multiple venues. There’s been a steady stream of meetings in hotel hallways, at the convention center, even at the Colts’ complex. Everyone from owners to coaches to agents have been briefed about negotiations that could avert the looming lockout, which could begin Friday. 
And the potential draft picks find themselves caught in the middle. 
If the expected lockout begins, teams will be prohibited from communicating with veterans or negotiating player contracts. Free agency will be put on hold and teams cannot cut players from their current rosters. 
Rookies, however, will still have their regularly scheduled pro days, still be able to inter­view with team officials and still get picked in April’s draft. 
That’s when the landscape changes for the rookies. 
They will not be able to negoti­ate deals until a new CBA is in place, and, perhaps more impor­tantly, will not be allowed to get playbooks, go through the usual minicamps or the team’s offsea­son workouts. 
Some analysts suggest it’s enough to make this a lost draft class. NFL officials disagree. 
“It’s difficult being a rookie as it is,” Kansas City Chiefs general manager Scott Pioli said. “I think it’s really up to the individual. They’re all at different points, but they’re going to have to develop. If it’s going to be an issue, though, it’s going to be an issue for everybody.” 
That’s not necessarily what the players want to hear. 
“I don’t think it would set us back,” Miami cornerback DeMarcus Van Dyke said. “It would make us hungrier when we get into camp. It will proba­bly cut down all the long con­tracts and just get guys right into camp.” 
But it could affect how much of an impact the rookies make next season. 
Without a playbook and mini-camps, the learning curve likely will get steeper. And history has shown how tough it can be. 
Rob Morris, the Colts’ first-round pick in 2000, often said his rookie holdout stunted his development. Former Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett didn’t even make the Denver roster after missing two college seasons, and former Southern California receiver Mike Williams, another former first-round pick, had only 44 catches in his first three NFL seasons after sitting out the 2004 season. 
The players in Indy want to avoid those mistakes. 
“It’s always a setback because you want to be able to learn as much as you can and get that jump on everybody,” UCLA safe­ty Rahim Moore said. “I hope there’s a minicamp so I can get the playbook and learn as fast as I can. If you try to rely on a training camp, it can be a bad thing.” 
There’s even a possibility that the league’s first work stoppage since 1987 could lead to con­densed training camps, the can­cellation of games or, as unlikely as it seems, the loss of an entire season. 
“At the end of the day, those guys are going to have to come up with an agreement because you can’t cancel the game of football forever,” said LSU’s Patrick Peterson, currently pro­jected as the draft’s top-rated cornerback. 
The other big issue will be contracts. 
If the owners get the rookie wage scale they want, the days of record-breaking rookie con­tracts will be history. Last year’s top overall pick, Sam Bradford, signed a six-year deal worth $78 million with $50 million guaran­teed. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 28, 2011 
NBA 

Anthony, Knicks rally from 15-point deficit to stun Heat 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — With the game on the line, LeBron James got past Carmelo Anthony. 
Not Amare Stoudemire, howev­er. 
And just like that, the New York Knicks — with defense, no less — knocked off the Miami Heat. 
Chauncey Billups made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 1:01 left, Stoudemire blocked James’ layup try with 7 seconds remain­ing to protect a one-point lead, and the Knicks finished with a 13-2 run to beat the Heat 91-86 on Sunday night. 
“The bigger the game, the big­ger the stage, the bigger they play,” Knicks coach Mike D’Antoni said. 
Anthony scored 29 points and Stoudemire added 16 points and 10 rebounds. Billups had 16 points for the Knicks, who rallied from a 15-point, first-half deficit and improved to 2-1 since the megatrade with Denver that dra­matically changed their roster. 
“These games like this are fun,” Anthony said. “It brings the best out of everybody.” 
James scored 27 for Miami, which had won seven straight at home. Chris Bosh added 20 points and 12 rebounds, and Dwyane Wade finished with only 12 points for the Heat -who had 20 turnovers, matching the fourth-most forced by New York this season. 
“We will have our break­through,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “And as painful as this is right now, there will be a time that we break through and we’re able to execute and win a game like this against a quality opponent going down the stretch. What you hope is that the pain of a game like this res­onates enough to make a change.” 
With New York up by one, Bill Walker turned the ball over with 
12.7 seconds left when he was unable to handle an inbounds pass, and Miami had its chance. 
James drove on Anthony down the left side of the lane, but Stoudemire swatted the two-time reigning MVP’s try away. 
“I watched it the whole way,” Stoudemire said. “I knew what he was going to do.” 
Said James: “I felt like I got enough room around ‘Melo ... and he just got a piece of it.” 
James had another chance, but his potentially tiebreaking 3­pointer missed with 2 seconds left, and the Knicks leaped in cel­ebration. 
Miami is now tied with Chicago in the loss column, each with 17 in the tight race in the East. The Heat do have three more wins, but fell a half-game behind Boston for the top spot in the conference. 
And it was there for the Heat’s taking, after holding an 84-78 lead with 3:05 left. 
New York, as it had all night, came back quickly. 
A 9-2 run over the next 3 min­utes, capped by Billups’ 3-pointer over Wade’s outstretched arm with 1:01 left, gave the Knicks an 85-84 edge — and few people in the sellout crowd remained seat­ed at that point. 
“Mr. Big Shot” lived up to his name, again. James said before the game that he found it comi­cal that some may have consid­ered Billups to be an ancillary part of the Knicks-Nuggets deal. 
Down the stretch, Billups took over. 
“It’s a shot that I like to shoot,” Billups said. “It’s kind of a far shot, but it’s in my range and I knocked it down.” 
Billups added a steal on the next Miami possession and set up Shawne Williams for two free throws and an 87-84 lead. James answered with two free throws, getting the Heat within one again, but Stoudemire’s block kept them at bay. 
“I don’t think we played badly,” Bosh said. “I think we controlled the whole game. ... We had con­trol of the game. We just didn’t execute down the stretch.” 
Mike Miller scored 10 for Miami. Walker had 10 for the Knicks, who won despite shoot­ing 39 percent. 
“There’s a reason we keep los­ing these close games,” Wade said. “So we’ve got to figure it out.” 
It was the fourth and final reg­ular-season meeting for the Knicks and Heat, and Wade could only point to one reason why Sunday night seemed so dif­ferent. 
“Melo,” he said before the game. 
True, but the scene was any­thing but mellow. 
Predictably, it was a double-feature of sorts -part showdown, part show. 
Knicks superfan Spike Lee was having a conversation with Landry Fields during pregame warmups. Actor Michael Clarke Duncan and soccer star Thierry Henry had prime seats, tennis star Venus Williams appeared and Miami’s notoriously late-set­tling crowd was in place in plen­ty of time to lustily boo New York’s starters as they were introduced. 

“The atmosphere was crazy,” Knicks guard Anthony Carter said. 
Oh, there was a game, too. 
Shawne Williams blocked Erick Dampier down low 2 minutes into the game. No problem ­James simply knocked the ball away from Stoudemire, then threw a no-look, backward-over­his-head pass to Dampier for a dunk. A minute later, James dribbled behind his back to get clear of Billups, slapped the ball to Wade, then received an alley­oop pass back and slammed it with his left hand. 


Monday, February 28, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
Campbell 
continued from page 20 
the Broncos up 2-1 at 14:40 mark in the second period. Johnson was unable to corral the puck in the crease, and it popped out to Campbell at the right edge of the goal. With Johnson out of posi­tion, Campbell coolly lifted the puck into the net. 
Despite being down, Irish soph­omore Billy Maday said the team didn’t lose focus. 
“I think we were for the most part pretty calm,” Maday said. “We’ve been down before throughout the season, had some pretty significant comebacks. I think our experience in that department helped with our com­posure, and I think we were still confident on the bench that some­body would step up.” 
At 4:07 of the third period, Irish freshman Jeff Costello made a nice individual play down the right side of the ice, shifted the puck to his forehand, and fired the puck over Kuhn’s shoulder to even the game at 2. 
“We’ve shown that we can come back this season two or three times, and it was just a matter of being patient and not trying to force the issue,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
With just over six minutes left in the game, Western Michigan’s Matt Tennyson was sent to the box for high sticking. With time ticking down on the power play, Maday fired a shot into a crowd in front of the net. The puck deflected off Lee’s skate and into the net. The officials reviewed the play, but ruled that Lee did not kick the puck and the Irish took a 3-2 lead with 4:57 left in the game. Maday said the Irish knew they had to take advantage of their chance on the power play. 
“I think we went out with the mentality that we were just going to shoot pucks and get a goal any way we could, so that was kind of my philosophy there,” he said. “I looked up, saw Anders was tied up with a guy in front, figured he’s probably going to win more battles than not with his big frame, so luckily it went off his skate and we got a goal out of it.” 
Jackson said Lee was effective at using his body to create chances down low. 
“One of the biggest things about being in that position is having no fear,” Jackson said. “You’ve got to be smart to get good body posi­tion, but you can’t have any fear because you’re going to get hit there.” 
From there the Irish held off Western Michigan’s attack to claim a 3-2 win and move within a game of the CCHA regular sea­son crown. 
A championship wasn’t in the cards, though. A slow start for Notre Dame and a stagnant offense spelled doom for the Irish, leading to a 2-0 loss to Western Michigan on Saturday, snapping an eight game unbeaten streak. 
The Irish tried to rally late, but could not muster any goals against the Broncos. The loss, combined with Michigan’s 5-0 win over Northern Michigan, allowed the Wolverines to leapfrog the Irish for the CCHA crown. 
Irish freshman goalie Steven Summerhays, replacing Friday’s starter sophomore Mike Johnson, kept the Irish in the contest early with a flurry of saves on two Western Michigan power plays during the first nine minutes. 
But the Broncos took the lead with 10:09 left in the period, after Ian Slater stole the puck behind the Irish net and slipped it past Summerhays. Less than two min­utes later, Trevor Elias put the Broncos up 2-0 after winning a race to the puck in the offensive zone and beating Summerhays top shelf. 
The Irish’s woes continued as the period progressed, when jun­ior right wing Billy Maday was assessed a five-minute major penalty and a game misconduct for checking from behind. The ejection forced Irish coach Jeff Jackson to adjust his lines and Notre Dame was outshot 15-6 after the first twenty minutes. 
“It’s tough to get down 2-0 early in the game,” Irish senior left wing Calle Ridderwall said. “When everyone starts feeling you’re down a little bit, you start [attempting to make plays] that maybe aren’t there.” 
The slow start prompted Jackson to put in Johnson for the second and third periods, in an attempt to spark some life into his team. 
“I thought [Summerhays] held us in there,” Jackson said. “The score could have potentially been 4-0. The coaches sometimes make goalie changes to change the focus of their team. It had nothing to do with his perform-ance.” 

The Irish appeared to score three minutes into the second period, but the goal was waved off after officials ruled freshman center Anders Lee batted the puck into the goal with a high stick. With less than two minutes in the period, the Irish seemed to score again, but the officials denied the goal once more, blow­ing the whistle before the puck crossed the line. 
“I don’t have the same view [as the officials],” Jackson said. “I can’t see from the overhead per­spective. There were so many conferences going on the ice, I don’t think anybody knew.” 
With 30 seconds left in the game, a likely Irish goal was pre­vented when a WMU defenseman knocked the net out of position just before the puck went in. The Irish were awarded a penalty shot, but freshman center T.J. Tynan was denied by Jerry Kuhn, effectively ending any chance at a comeback. 
Though the Irish could not win the regular season conference championship, Jackson said the team was still looking forward to the CCHA Tournament and poten­tially the NCAA Tournament. 
“I felt bad for our guys tonight,” Jackson said. “This senior class deserved to finish [the regular season] on a positive note, but as I told them, this is a three-legged race, and we’re just through the first leg and we did pretty well.” 
Contact Sam Werner at 
swerner@nd.edu and Sam Gans 
at sgans@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 
Belles drop one match, grab win in Cleveland 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s fell to Case Western despite a tough effort on Saturday but bounced back with a resounding win over John Carroll Sunday to end their weekend in Cleveland with suc­cess. 
The Belles (1-2) entered their first match of the weekend knowing that they were in for a challenge against the Spartans (4-2), specifically their doubles tandem of Erika Lim and Emily Pham. 
“[Case Western] was a very tough team,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “They had a nationally ranked No. 1 doubles team and some very skilled play­ers. They played very well strategically, too.” 
The Spartans prevailed 7-2, sweeping the doubles matches and claiming the top four singles spots as well. Despite the large margin of victory, the Belles turned in several strong per­formances. Senior Mary Therese Lee stepped up in a tiebreaker late to win No. 5 singles 6-3, 1-6, 10-8, and freshman Kathleen Klauer won in straight sets at No. 6 singles, 6-2, 6-3. 
“We definitely took some posi­tives out of our match on Saturday,” Campbell said. “Our doubles game improved a lot and we were in a lot of singles matches against a quality oppo­nent, so we felt good going for­ward.” 
Saint Mary’s then turned their sights to the Blue Streaks. Despite having very little rest, the Belles dominated through­out, and emerged with an 8-1 victory, their first of the season. The team swept all six singles matches, and displayed their improvement in doubles play, winning two of those three matches as well. Several Belles turned in solid performances, from the dominance of senior Kate Grabarek, who lost just two games in a 6-0, 6-2 win, to the clutch play of senior Jessica Kosinski who overcame a one set deficit to win in a tiebreaker, 3-6, 6-4, 10-7. Klauer had another nice match as well, breaking serve late in the second set to pull off a dramatic 7-6, 7-5 win. 
“We kept getting better in our double games. We’re getting more aggressive, which is good, and our teamwork is getting a lot better as well,” Campbell said. 
With the majority of the season still to come, Saint Mary’s will hope to build on this newfound momentum and find even more success. With their home opener against Saint Mary’s (MN) over a week away, the Belles will use the next week for some practice and much needed rest. 
“We’re looking forward to a bit of a break,” Campbell said. “We have to work on some of the strategy and nuances of the sin­gles game, and how to adjust that in the middle of a match. We’ve also had some injuries that need some time to heal up. [Senior captain] Franca Peluso was one of our best players last year, and we’re looking forward to getting her back. We just need to keep improving.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 28, 2011 
Foley 
continued from page 20 
give the Irish a 3-1 advantage entering halftime. 
The Nittany Lions scored once more in the third quarter before the Irish slammed the door shut in the fourth. For Notre Dame, defense was key, as the team forced sixteen turnovers and generally stifled Penn State’s offense. Sophomore goalie John Kemp recorded 8 saves in the game. 
“I think we knew what they were going to try to do on offense,” Irving said. “It was just a really great defensive effort from everyone on our team.” 
Corrigan appreciates the job his defense did in denying Penn State of scoring opportunities. 
“Penn State was very patient offensively,” he said, “waiting for what they wanted but they just weren’t getting many good looks at it, and when they did, John Kemp came up big.” 
With the win, the Irish improve their record in the month of February to 19-3 under Corrigan. Having bene­fited from their previous expe­riences with strong starts, the Irish are sure to not let their guard down only two games into the season. 
“We really understand from last year that every game mat­ters,” Irving said. “It’s not just the games in the [beginning or] end that matter, but the games in the middle of the season are just as important, so every game is important.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 
ND drops two of three to Seattle on the road 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
After opening the season by taking two out of three games in the Big East/Big Ten Challenge last weekend, Notre Dame took a step backward by dropping two of three to Seattle over the week­end. 
Senior pitcher Brian Dupra blanked the Redhawks in six shutout innings, as the Irish picked up a 5-0 win on Friday. Seattle bounced back on Saturday to sweep the Irish in a double­header by scores of 1-0 and 7-2. 
Dupra struck out a career-high 11 batters and scattered just four hits in the series opener, picking up the win to improve to 1-1 on the year and give Notre Dame (3­
3) its third consecutive win. Although the Irish only mustered six hits on the day, none were more important than the back-to­back two out hits from sopho­more catcher Joe Hudson and freshman first baseman Trey Mancini in the eighth inning. Hudson belted a two-run double, while Mancini scorched a two-run home run, his second of the season. 
Although the Irish offense pro­vided clutch support in the open­er, it did not fare as well on Saturday, squandering top pitch­ing performances from senior right-handers Cole Johnson and Todd Miller. The Irish could only muster two runs on seven hits during Saturday’s doubleheader, dropping the twinbill despite quality start from Johnson and Miller. 
Locked in a pitcher’s duel with Redhawks’ right-hander Brandon Kizer, Johnson yielded just one run and one walk over seven and one-third shutout innings, but took the loss to move to 1-1 on the season. Kizer kept Notre Dame off balance over eight shutout innings, striking out two without issuing a single walk in the 1-0 Irish loss. 
Notre Dame jumped to a 2-0 lead in the nightcap thanks to RBI singles from Mancini and senior outfielder Herman Petzold in the top of the first inning, but the Irish did not record another base hit for the remaining eight frames. Redhawks’ righty Seafth Howe set down the final 16 bat­ters faced in the game, as Seattle (4-3) retired the final 19 Notre Dame batters in order. 
While the Irish were unable to salvage the series with a win on Saturday, several freshmen have stepped into important roles for coach Mik Aoki’s squad. In addi­tion to Mancini’s bat in the heart of the lineup, freshmen hurlers Anthony McIver, Sean Fitzgerald and Dan Slania earned valuable in-game experience this week­end. 
Earlier this season, Aoki said that each would play a significant role in the success of the Irish pitching staff. 
“I think [Fitzgerald] and Slaney and McIver are very much guys that will factor into it, and pitch really big and significant innings for us,” Aoki said on Feb. 21. “I think McIver in particular might start some of those midweek games once we start playing them.” 
Although the Irish offense has not found its midseason form yet, the offense typically lags the pitching early in the season, espe­cially for teams that practice in a cold-weather environments and are limited to the batting cages. Nevertheless, Aoki said he believed his team is ready for conference play. 
“If we needed to, could we open up in the Big East this week or the week after? Yeah, I think we could,” Aoki said. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish go 1-2 over weekend 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

In one of the oldest and most competitive annual tourna­ments in the nation, the Irish were able to cruise to victory Friday before dropping their matches on Saturday and Sunday. 
No. 26 Notre Dame (8-6) won the opening match of the Blue-Gray National Tennis Classic in Montgomery, Ala., over Penn State, 4-0. The doubles team of junior Casey Watt and fresh­man Greg Andrews picked up another important victory for the Irish. With an unfinished match Saturday and a victory over Texas Tech yesterday, the duo continued their unbeaten streak, which dates back to Jan. 23, when the two lost to No. 1 Virginia’s 3-doubles team, 8-6. 
“They’re both really good players,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “Only the best teams in the country put out the talent level we are at that position. They have good chemistry with each other.” 
Watt anchored the singles lineup as well, picking up a 6­2, 6-2 victory at the No. 1 posi­tion over the Nittany Lions’ Eddie Bourchier. 
“We played well at every position against Penn State,” Sachire said. 
On Saturday afternoon, the Irish dropped a 4-0 decision to No. 21 Pepperdine. The Waves swept the top three singles points, as Watt earned a rare defeat against sophomore Sebastian Fanselow, the 21st­ranked player in the country. 
Pepperdine was also able to win at Notre Dame’s strongest position – its doubles teams. Although the No. 3 doubles match was halted before its completion, the Wave won at No. 1 and No. 2 doubles, 9-8 (7-4) and 8-4, respectively. 
“We need to get the top of the lineup playing better,” Sachire said. “Tennis is a team sport, with seven points on the line in each match. It’s all about working as a seven-cylinder engine, and we haven’t been firing on the same page every match.” 
On the final day of the tour­nament, the competition did not get any weaker, as the Irish lost 4-0 to No. 17 Texas Tech. 
Once again, the top three Notre Dame singles players were swept in straight sets. The reliable Watt-Andrews duo picked up an important win at No. 3 doubles, 8-6, but it was not enough to hold off the Red Raiders. 
“Casey has taken over a lot with volleys and his athleti­cism,” Sachire said. “Greg hits a hard ball, so they set each other up pretty well.” 
The Irish have the week off before hosting Texas A&M and Big Ten schools Northwestern and Illinois in a five-day stretch starting Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Monday, February 28, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 
Undefeated Irish sweep in Carolina 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Unfamiliar opponents were no match for the experi­enced Irish (9-0) as the team returned from South Carolina still undefeated and in possession of the Notre Dame softball record for best start to a season. 
No. 35 Notre Dame cruised to a pair of shutouts on the first day of the non-confer­ence Cougar Classic, taking down host College of Charleston 2-0 and Iowa State 1-0. In the first game senior pitcher Jody Valdivia struck out 11 batters, while freshman pitcher Laura Winter contributed eight of her own against Iowa. 
Against Charleston, scoring came from sophomore Amy Buntin — who was driven home on a Winter sacrifice 
— and junior Alexa Maldonado, who scored off a single from senior captain Heather Johnson. Later in the day, Buntin stepped up again to bring home senior Katie Fleury in the fourth. 
Though the first day left the Irish win streak intact, the team was anything but complacent and looked to improve offensively to finish out the weekend. 
“We didn’t score as much in the first two games as we could have so I know we wanted to try to get on the upswing,” senior catcher Alexia Clay said. “In the first two games we didn’t really go upward but for the week­end overall we’re definitely going in a positive direc­tion.” 
That positive momentum got going on Sunday as the Irish kicked off their first contest against Marist with a Maldonado double that resulted in a run off a Johnson single. The Irish produced seven runs on seven hits in the second inning, an impressive team effort that put the game out of reach for the Red Foxes. With 13 hits on the day and a two-run fifth inning that enacted the mercy rule, Notre Dame emerged with a dominant 10-1 victory. 
Rushed play in the final game of the weekend against Liberty College resulted in seven Irish errors and a closer margin of victory for the team at 6-4. 
“Certain people just got ahead of themselves so that was what happened,” Clay said. “There were a couple of key plays when we were moving too quickly but we just needed to pace our ­selves.” 
Last week’s Big East Player of the Week, Maldonado was once again a major compo­nent for the Irish this week­end, standing out most prominently in the Liberty game when she led all play­ers with two runs and three stolen bases. The junior has been vital to the team’s offensive success thus far. 
“Personally I’ve been able to stay out of my head,” Maldonado said. “I haven’t been thinking too much which is always better for an athlete. I’ve been feeling confident.” 
It was the final close win that gave the team the record for best season start, a record that was previously set during the 2001 season. With some tough matchups ahead next weekend, head­lined by a showdown with top -ranked Alabama, the Irish are staying positive. 
“We’ve been working a lot on team unity and I feel like it’s paying off on the field,” Maldonado said. “We need to stay consistent. And we just need to go out and play Notre Dame softball because if we do that we can stay in any game against any team.” 
Contact Kelsey Manning kmannin3@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

ND sweeps Blue-Gray Classic 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The No. 19 Irish dominated this weekend at the Blue ­Gray Classic, earning three big wins against some of the top teams in the country. 
The strong showing in both doubles and singles play secured 4-0 wins over both Virginia and Utah to go along with a 4-1 defeat over No. 23 Oklahoma. 
The No. 2 doubles team of sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan and senior Kristen Rafael secured their first two wins of the season, defeating Oklahoma’s Whitney Ritchie and Maria Kalashnikova and Utah’s Evgenia Kryuchkova and Lexi Provancha. 
The doubles team of juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Matthews extended their win­ning streak to four with their defeat of Oklahoma’s top ranked duo, Ana -Maria Constantinescu and Alice Radu. 
“Our doubles was key this weekend as we won all three doubles points,” Frilling said. “Hopefully we can keep up this momentum for the rest of the season.” 
In singles action, Frilling managed to secure the win­ning point against both Utah and Oklahoma, with her defeat of Utah’s Anastasia Putilina and Oklahoma ’s Constantinescu. She is now 10-0 on the season. 

Matthews, ranked 43rd, won a tough match against Utah’s Kryuchkova, defeated her in three sets. 
McGaffigan was able to beat Oklahoma’s Maria Kalashinokova, successfully ending her five match losing streak. 
Freshman Jennifer Kellner secured her sixth straight singles win against Oklahoma, and also earned a pair of doubles wins with partner Julie Sabacinski. 
Frilling was proud of her team throughout the tourna­ment. 
“We all played really well this weekend,” Frilling said. “We played three tough matches and were happy to come out with a win. It was good for us to get some matches outdoors and play talented teams.” 
The Irish will hit the courts again Friday against Indiana. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



Carr 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame with one specific goal in mind. 
“We wanted to put basketball on the map here at the University. That’s what it was all about,” he said. “Then I got here and realized, it’s going to take some work.” 
Carr made quick work once he took the court his sopho­more season — freshmen were ineligible to play varsity sports at the time by NCAA regula­tions. The Washington, D.C., native scored 20 or more points in 70 of his 74 career games. 
His performance in the NCAA tournament highlighted his jun­ior season. In the first round, Carr poured in his record-set­ting tally of 61 to top Ohio University, 112-82. 
“The last shot, to break the record, it hit the back of the rim, went straight up in the air, and came straight back down,” Carr said of his performance, which will undoubtedly be cited in three weeks when this year’s NCAA tournament begins. “I just put my hands up and said that’s it.” 
An urging from Irish coach John Dee to pick up his defen­sive performance actually sparked Carr’s offensive out­burst. 
“The only other thing I remember, there was a guy named John Canine — he made his first six shots,” Carr said. “Coach Dee came to me and said, ‘Look, are you going to play defense tonight or just sit there and watch him burn you up?’ … The rest is history from that point on.” 
Three of the top-five all-time scoring performances in NCAA tournament history belong to Carr, as he averaged 52.7 points per game in the 1970 tournament. 
Despite his tournament suc­cess, Carr said he always pre­ferred to play on Notre Dame’s home floor. 
“Some of those games, you almost felt like another power was here,” he said. “When I see players from other schools who played here, they say they always felt there was an extra something in this building that they just couldn’t beat … Every time I took the floor, it was unbelievable.” 
That “extra something” helped the Irish top No. 1 UCLA in January 1971, Carr’s senior year. Carr poured in 46 of Notre Dame’s 89 points that day. 
“The UCLA game … was just off the charts,” he said. “The student body was unbelievable.” 
Carr’s numbers remain the benchmark for Irish players, something senior forward Carleton Scott is aware of — especially since the number on his back, 34 — is now in the rafters beneath Carr’s name. 
“It’s an honor to wear his number … He’s a great player to have come through here and he’s a great guy,” Scott said after Notre Dame’s victory Saturday. “Hopefully I can channel some of his Austin Carr.” 
Carr said the fact that he now inspires athletes like Scott makes him most proud. 
“I’m sort of at a loss for words because all I did was play basketball,” he said. “To me, it’s just hard for me to have the opportunity to have other young men who come to this school look at me in that light. I guess that’s what I’m trying to say — this will be an honor that I will always cherish, and I will live up to it until my dying days. 
“I guess we did put basketball on the map.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 28, 2011 
Spurts 
continued from page 20 
second half.” 
Down as much as 11 with 2:55 left in the first half, the Irish scored the last six points of the period, including a buzzer-beating three-pointer by Abromaitis to cut the Pirates’ lead to three going into the break. 
“I think everybody was so ready to play, that sometimes you get too up for a game,” Hansbrough said. “You go out there, and people aren’t moving and people aren’t flowing because you’re so ready to play that you kind of lose your focus a little bit.” 
After Seton Hall senior forward Jeff Robinson made a layup, was fouled and made his free throw on the first possession of the second half, the Irish went on a 13-0 from which they never looked back. 
“I think we had our worst first half of the year, but I think that happens,” Hansbrough said. “It’s not about how you start but how you finish sometimes and we came out in the second half really focused, and it showed. 
“I think [the problem] was our offensive flow, because when we did start flowing, we started to get layups at the bucket, three-point­ers, rebounds, and I thought we just found a way to win tonight.” 
Robinson and fellow senior Jeremy Hazell led the Pirates in scoring with 16 points and 14 points, respectively. Seton Hall shot just 30 percent from the floor and 26 percent in the second half. 
“The second half I thought we were better defensively and more efficient offensively,” Brey said. “In the first half, I didn’t think we did enough tough stuff defensively, and maybe that’s because we did-n’t make some shots and hung our head a little. We were very fortu­nate to only be down three at half. We kind of found our identity in the last 20 minutes, and that’s a great win for us, because human nature is human nature through the course of five months, so I’m proud of us that we maybe learned a lesson a little inexpen­sively.” 
The win over Seton Hall makes Notre Dame a perfect 16-0 at the Purcell Pavilion this season with one home game left, tonight’s con­test against No. 14 Villanova. Despite the possibility of finishing the season undefeated at home, Hansbrough said he does not want to think about it. 
“It would mean a lot to us, but hey, we haven’t done it yet, so we can’t even talk about it yet,” he said. 
The Irish and Wildcats will tip­off tonight at 7 p.m. The game will be broadcast on ESPN. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
ND rides strong second half to win over Dukes 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After a sluggish first half on Sunday, the Irish found their offense in the second frame and rallied past a determined Duquesne squad. 
Trailing 7-4 at halftime, No. 10/11 Notre Dame finished strong for the 12-10 victory in snowy Pittsburgh. Originally scheduled for Saturday, the game was pushed back due to inclement weather. The delay seemed to affect the Irish early, as they struggled to find the net against a Dukes team that was content to keep the game at a slow pace. 
“They were outplaying us and we just weren’t smooth offen­sively in the first half,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “The great teams find a way to win, though. In general we weren’t on our ‘A’ game, but we gutted it out.” 
With the excitement of play­ing at home against a nationally ranked foe, Duquesne pos­sessed an energy that the Irish didn’t seem to match until the second half. However, some halftime adjustments from the coaches allowed the game to played more on Notre Dame’s terms. 
“Their goalie was just holding the ball, so we had to make some changes,” Coyne said. “We adjusted our transition defense in the second half to force them to do some things.” 
The Dukes used a style of play designed to limit the transition attack of Notre Dame. Coyne was quick to praise the efforts of her counterpart Michael Scerbo as his game plan worked well for the first half. 
“It was a real slow-down game,” she said. “They weren’t trying to beat us in transition. They were well coached. They are very organized, with a good system and a staff that’s been there a while.” 
The Dukes took an 8-5 lead early in the second half, but the Irish responded with four straight goals. Notre Dame took a 9-8 lead on a goal from senior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney with just over 21 minutes to play. Blaney finished the game with three goals. The Dukes tied the game at 9 with 13:38 to play, but senior midfielder Kaitlin Keena gave the Irish a lead they wouldn’t relinquish three min­utes later off an assist from Blaney. 
Although the Irish eventually prevailed, Coyne said the Irish would likely see this slow-down tactic more often this season. Coyne says that her squad’s athleticism causes opponents to prepare for the Irish using a more deliberate approach to attacking. 
“Tactically, people are trying to take us out of our game,” she said. “They know they can’t necessarily beat us with athleti­cism, so they slow the game down.” 
In addition to the planning and execution of Duquesne, the week of practice leading up to Sunday’s game may have pre­vented the Irish from starting quickly out of the gates. Coyne said the absence of many play­ers from full practice prevented the team from running their usual rotations. 
“We kind of took it easy in practice this week,” Coyne said. “We had a lot of people not practicing so there were some odd number combinations.” 
Notre Dame has the week off before hosting Ohio State March 10 at Arlotta Stadium, weather permitting. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish cruise on Senior Day 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

The No. 8 Irish entered Saturday’s game against Cincinnati with nervous excitement and a bit of emo­tion, but an explosive 21-0 run to start the second half gave Notre Dame a 66 -48 win on Senior Day, in for­ward Becca Bruszewski’s final game at Purcell Pavilion. 
“We were a little giddy, almost, before the game,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “Senior Day for Becca, everybody had a little bit of emotion and they wanted to do well for her. But I think we didn’t have the same type of focus that we normally do.” 
However, Bruszewski still said the game, overall, was “great.” 
“It was definitely some­thing I always dreaded as an underclassmen to see the seniors go,” she said. 
Bruszewski’s classmates Devereaux Peters and Brittany Mallory are also senior starters for the Irish (24-5, 13-2 Big East), but both have another year of eligibility. 
Bruszewski made sure to make the day special with 12 points. Peters chipped in with 12 points and 10 rebounds while junior guard Natalie Novosel had 11 points. 
“I thought [Peters] came out and had a really good game,” McGraw said. “She played well and I think she carried us through the game, you know, in the first half with her defense and her rebounding and her scoring.” 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins also finished with 12 points after giving up her starting position to walk-on senior forward Mary Forr. When McGraw announced that Forr would start, she didn’t know whose spot she would take. Both Peters and Mallory were quick to offer their spots, but Diggins had another idea. 
“Everybody was willing to give up their spot for her. Then Skylar came up to me after practice and said ‘You have to start the seniors. [Peters] is a senior and she needs to start and I’ll come off of the bench.’ That kind of was the attitude with the whole team, and I thought was great. It was great for Mary. It was Becca’s day, but I thought it was great for Mary to be out there. I think she got a thrill being a starter.” 
Forr finished with two points and two rebounds in 15 minutes of action. 
Bruszewski didn’t mind sharing her day with Forr, but McGraw couldn’t help but single out what Bruszewski has brought to the Irish team. 
“I think her contribution over four years has been out­standing. But her contribu­tion this year from a leader­ship perspective has sur­passed everyone’s expecta­tions. I think she has taken this team and really set the tone the entire year,” McGraw said. “She is the most amazing competitor I think I have ever coached. She will never ever quit. She just doesn’t have that word in her vocabulary and the team feeds off of that.” 
The Irish fed off of Bruszewski’s energy Saturday, with six players coming off the bench for 11 points and 10 rebounds. Sophomore guard Kaila Turner had nine of those 11 points with three 3-pointers in the second half. 
Notre Dame entered the half up only eight points, 28­20, but started the second half with a 21 -0 run that gave the Irish the boost they needed. 
“We wanted to get back to our defense and intensity,” McGraw said about the changes after the break. “I was disappointed, and I think they were, too. So we just talked about what we needed to do, and they went out and did it.” 
The Irish will have to do it again tonight when they travel to Chicago to face No. 7 DePaul to close the Big East regular season and determine which team will be the No. 2 seed in the Big East tournament. The Blue Demons (25 -5, 12 -3) are coming off of a 60-53 loss to No. 24 Marquette on Saturday night and have fall­en to Notre Dame the last four times the two teams have met. 
The Irish will face the Blue Demons tonight at 9 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, February 28, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, February 28, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Pushing past the Pirates 
ND remains unbeaten 


Austin Carr inducted at Purcell Pavilion 
into Ring of Honor 
By DOUGLAS FARMERBy ERIC PRISTER 
Sports EditorAssociate Sports Editor 

The numbers and accolades Dame’s all-time leading scorer, 
On a night honoring Notre 

speak for themselves: 34.6 the Irish struggled to put the 
points per game in his career, ball in the hoop. But 43 com­
1971 National Player of the bined points from seniors Ben 
Year, an NCAA tournament-Hansbrough and Tim 
record 61 points in a game, Abromaitis pushed them to a 
another NCAA tournament­60-48 win over Seton Hall 
record 41.3 points per game in Saturday at the Purcell 
seven tournament games, the Pavilion. 
first overall pick in the 1971 “We had Austin [Carr] in the 
NBA Draft. locker room, and I told him 
The number on Irish legend that I don’t think I’ve ever had KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer Austin Carr’s jersey entered the 
except for some spurts in the Top: Senior Tim Abromaitis shoots a free throw during Notre Dame’s 60-48 win over Seton Hall Irish history, said he came to Saturday. Bottom left: Austin Carr, right, receives an award from Director of Athletics Jack see SPURTS/page 18 Swarbrick. Bottom right: Carr’s No. 34 hangs in the rafters. see CARR/page 17 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish beat Penn State forsecondwininarow 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Despite a number of missed offensive opportunities, the Irish turned in an impressive defensive performance their 6-2 win over Penn State, extending their winning streak over the Nittany Lions to nine. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (2-0) out­lasted a Penn State (1-1) team that was powered by an exceptional performance from freshman goalie Austin Kaut, who recorded 15 saves on the day. 
“Their goalie played really well,” senior captain Andrew Irving said. 
To compound the difficulties which Kaut’s performance presented, the Irish struggled for most of the game to con­trol their shots and to put the ball on net. 
“[Kaut] made some very nice saves,” Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We did not do a good job of putting away a lot of opportunities we created, and the combina­tion was enough to keep us in a tough spot for the better part of the day.” 
While they undoubtedly hurt themselves with a num­ber of errant shots, the Irish more than made up for it with pure quantity of shots, out-shooting the Nittany Lions 41-19. This persistence paid off eventually, as the Irish netted three goals in the final quarter while holding Penn State scoreless to secure the win. 
“Going into the fourth quar­ter we said … we’re doing everything but putting the ball into the back of the net,” Corrigan said. “Luckily we were able to make some of those plays in the fourth quarter.” 
In the first half, Notre Dame jumped on the board first with junior attack Nicholas Beattie’s early goal before Penn State tied it up with a goal from their extra man unit following a Notre Dame penalty. Senior captain Zach Brenneman put the Irish back on top with his goal as the first quarter winded down, and sophomore Ryan Foley added a goal of his own to 
see FOLEY/page 16 
HOCKEY 

Broncos shatter title hopes 
By SAM GANS and SAM 
WERNER 
Sports Writers 
After a gutty 3-2 win at Western Michigan Friday, the Irish were just one win away from a CCHA regular season title, an unexpected result for a season that began with so many question marks. It wasn’t to be, though, as Notre Dame fell 2-0 to the Broncos at home Saturday on Senior Night. 
With Michigan’s sweep of Northern Michigan over the weekend, the Wolverines passed the Irish to claim the conference regular season title by just two points. 
The Irish erased a 2-1 third-period deficit Friday to pick up their first win at Lawson Ice Arena since 2007. Freshman Anders Lee scored two goals, including the game-winner and sophomore goalie Mike Johnson stopped 16 of 18 Bronco shots to pick up his 16th win of the sea­son. 
Notre Dame got on the board quickly against the Broncos, jumping out to a 1-0 lead just 
1:31 into the game. Junior defenseman Sean Lorenz ripped a shot from the high slot and Lee battled down low to deflect the puck past Western Michigan goalie Jerry Kuhn. 
Western Michigan’s Max Campbell tied it up at 10:09 of the first. After winning the puck in a tie up with Irish senior defense-man Joe Lavin at the Notre Dame blueline, Campbell generated a 3­on-1 break and fired a wrist shot past Johnson. 

Campbell scored again to put 
see CAMPBELL/page 15 





