
University vows to never forget 
Malloy, graduates remember ‘somber’ 2001 environment 
By  SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
Between his years at Notre Dame as a student, faculty member and then as president, Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy has been on cam­pus “a long time.” 
In fact, the University president emeritus has been a part of the Notre Dame community for nearly 50 years, which works out to about 17,500 days. 
Of all of those days, none stand out to him like Sept. 11, 2001. 
“9/11, in my 18 years as presi­dent, was the overwhelmingly most significant memory,” Malloy said. “Not only because of the nature of what went on, but how the Notre Dame family rallied around and found a way to comfort one another and to celebrate the common life in the midst of all kinds of fears.” 
Malloy, like many others, re­members exactly what he was do­ing when he heard about the ter­rorist attacks on the World Trade Centers. 
“I was in my office and I think it was right after the first plane hit, [my assistant] said, ‘A plane has hit in New York City,’ and so I went in and next thing you know it was two planes and the Pentagon and then Pennsylvania,” he said. “The first thing I thought of was what a tragic loss.” 
Jim Horvath, a 2003 graduate, also did not have to work hard to re­member what he was doing when he found out about the attacks. 
“I’ll never forget it, honestly,” he said. “I had just woken up and actually hopped in the shower ... 


see CAMPUS/page 3 




‘It was a symbol of us coming together as one family’ 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Basilica bells tolled solemn­ly Sunday evening as a line of students processed from Hes-burgh Library to the Grotto. 
Each student quietly held a candle, glowing in the dark. 
The procession followed a Mass of Remembrance on the quad outside Hesburgh Library to commemorate the tenth an­niversary of the terrorist at­tacks on Sept. 11, 2001. 
Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy, the University president at the time of the attacks, delivered the homily Sunday evening. He also presided over the Mass that was celebrated Sept. 11, 2001 on South Quad. 
“It is eerie how similar this day is to the day of 9/11 10 years ago,” Malloy said. “It was sunny and bright, a kind of balmy September day. But it wasn’t until the early part of the morning that all of us can remember exactly where we were when we got the first news, and then we became transfixed by the images on television, the endless video loops of the planes crashing into the World Trade Center towers.” 
Students, faculty and com­munity members gathered on the grass and listened in si­lence as Malloy described the events of that day. 
“We struggle in the midst of situations like that to make sense of reality, the human ca-




see MASS/page 2 


Saint Mary’s alumnae remember friend killed in attacks 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
On the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, Saint Mary’s alumna Sarah Sullivan Bigelow turned on the news to watch an inter­view of Jack Welch on The To­day Show. 
However, news coverage quickly turned to a terror­ist attack on the World Trade Centers. As Bigelow watched the plane crash into the first tower, her mind turned to her former roommate at Saint Mary’s, Suzanne Kondratenko, who worked in Manhattan. 
“I got in my car to go to work and by the time I stopped for gas, I thought, ‘This isn’t right,’” Bigelow said. “I called [Suzanne’s] cell phone and called [it again], and then I called her office. [An admin­istrative assistant] said they couldn’t take my call, so I couldn’t help thinking, ‘Oh this isn’t good.’” 
Kondratenko, a 1996 alum­na, was in the second tower when the plane hit and died in the attack. 
As Bigelow waited to hear from her friend, she clung to hope. 

“I just can’t imagine what everybody went through try­ing to get down those stairs literally as the building is crumbling,” Bigelow said. “The grieving process was so unique, because clearly we all were clamoring for answers and hoping for survivors.” 
Only a few hours later, Big­elow said she confirmed her former roommate was in the second tower after speaking with Kondratenko’s sister. 
To this day, Bigelow said she still thinks of her friend. The women lived together dur­ing their senior year at Saint Mary’s, and Kondratenko was a bridesmaid at Bigelow’s wedding. Bigelow described her friend as “a pistol.” 
Bigelow’s oldest daughter, now 6, is named “Suzanne,” after Kondratenko. 
“Now I’ve got this 6-year­old Suzanne who’s precocious, bookish and beautiful,” Big­elow said. “It just makes me laugh because there are so many times I can picture Su­zanne saying, ‘Oh honey, you don’t know what you’re in for.’” 
While the 6-year-old does not know the full story of her namesake yet, Bigelow said her daughter understands what a special person Kon­dratenko was. 
“This woman says to my daughter, ‘Who are you named after?’” Bigelow said, “‘Oh well I’m named after Suzanne. She was my mommy’s best friend, and she died. And sometimes Mommy’s really sad when she thinks about the fact that I’m 


see GRAD/page 2 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Saint Mary’s students gather for candlelight vigil page 2 u Students recall fear, confusion page 3 u Professors analyze post-9/11 world page 6 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IN FOCUS Monday, September 12, 2011 Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u IN FOCUS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

Fine arts program honors anniversary 


Saint Mary’s students gather for candlelight vigil 
Evening service remembers lost alumna among victims of Sept. 11 attacks, unites campus on anniversary 
By MONA RODRIGUEZ “As an American citizen bers to come home when they News Writer active in the political pro-were gone, and we should cess and interested in cur-never forget them or those 
Saint Mary’s students re-rent events, I have always who have been the victims of membered those who lost felt touched and impacted by terror since that day.” their lives on Sept. 11, 2001 the events of S t u d e n t s with a candlelight vigil Sun-Sept. 11,” she received a day night on Alumnae Green. said. “As a candle at 
The vigil, led by students young Catho-Regina Hall, and Campus Ministry, al-lic, I have then formed 
“Sept. 11 affected so many 
lowed the Saint Mary’s com-g r ap p le d a circle 
Americans, and we need 
munity to come together as with ques-with the lit 
to take time to remember 
believers united in prayer for tions of faith candles on 
those individuals. It 
peace. and justice Alumnae
is important that the 
Suzanne Kondratenko, a since this Green. ‘96 alumna, was one of the day.” community is able to The vigil many lost on 9/11. For se-come together in order began with 
Senior Maria Tringali said nior Kerri-to support those who the song bringing the community to-ann Dooley, have suffered the loss “Christ, Be gether to remember the trag-the events of their loved ones. Our Light.” edy was important. of Sept. 11 St udents 
“Sept. 11 affected so many hit close to were then 
Maria Tringali 
Americans, and we need to home. given the op-
senior 
take time to remember those “I took the portunity to 



Students recall fear, confusion of Sept. 11 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
Students post notes in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center with their memories of the 9/11 attacks. 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN who had a weird-looking back-News Writer pack on,” she said. “I started hys-
COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 

share prayer terically crying because I thought 
intentions. A Saint Mary’s student reflects on the Sept. 11 anniversary Junior Luke Henegan used to be he was a terrorist and had a bomb The vigil during a candlelight vigil Sunday night on Alumnae Green. able to see the World Trade Center in his backpack.” 
c u l m i n a t e d across the water from his house in Sophomore Meaghan Ayers said 
with a sign of peace and the a significant part of the night. tims, and for increased peace Point Lookout, N.Y. she felt the continuing effects of 
distinguishing of the candles “It is important to not only in our world,” Roland said. On Sept. 11, 2001, all he saw Sept. 11 during her college search 
that lit the night. remember this day that shall was smoke. two years ago. Roland said focusing on live in infamy, but also to Contact Mona Rodriguez at Although he was only 10 years “When I was looking at schools, 
those who lost loved ones was pray for the families and vic-mrodri01@saintmarys.edu old at the time, Henegan said he one of my choices was George-still remembers that day as if it town,” Ayers said. “And my dad were yesterday. said, ‘Yeah, Georgetown would be “We were in school, and it was an awesome school, but it would right on the water, and the teach-make me very nervous that you’d gelow said. “Her parents is really hard to watch,” Bi-ers didn’t tell anyone what hap-be so close to what would be a waited until, I believe, the gelow said. “I want to do due pened but huge [terrorist] Grad 
following March to have her diligence to Suzanne’s mem-you could tell target area.’” funeral.  It just seemed so un-ory, but it’s just so painful to s om e t h i n g On Sept. 11, 
continued from page 1 real to not have any evidence watch footage.” was wrong,” “It just shocked me that 2001, Ayers or any remnants. It was a Though the memory of her Henegan said. some group of people said her teach-really heartbreaking time. I best friend’s death is painful, “They closed could destroy the lives ers gathered 
named after Suzanne, and have a great deal of admira-Bigelow said she is certain of all the blinds her entire ele­
of so many people in 

other times she’s really hap-tion for her family and their one thing. because appar-mentary school 
my town and take away 

py.’” strength.” “We gained an angel that ently there was into their gym­
someone’s mom or dad.” 

Kondratenko studied Bigelow said the publicity day, and I’m sure we’ve given an aircraft car-nasium in Glen abroad in Rome during her of the Sept. 11 attacks also her many a good laugh,” she rier going by.” Rock, N.J. The sophomore year at Saint made the grieving process said. Although he Tessa Demmerle students re­Mary’s. As a way to remem-more difficult. did not fully junior mained there ber her friend, Bigelow start-“The press on 9/11 and all Contact Caitlin Housley at understand the for the rest of ed the Suzanne Kondratenko the remembrance and hope chousl01@saintmarys.edu significance of the day, and Memorial Rome Program what happened Ayers said she Scholarship. at the time, Henegan said he came knew something was wrong but 
“When you lose somebody, to realize it soon enough. was not sure what. remembering [them] feels “I think it was when [the trag-Ayers’ father worked in a build-
Remembering the 

like a pleasure but an enor-edy] didn’t go away,” he said. “The ing across the street from the mous pressure,” Bigelow months just went by so fast, and it Twin Towers, she said, but he said. “You want to remember just never went away and you real-luckily was in a meeting in a dif­

family we lost 

somebody in the way they ized, ‘Wow, this is pretty serious.’” ferent part of the city that day. would want to be remem-On the morning of Sept. 11, “My mom called my dad’s office bered, but I think it was a Peter A. Gay, son of Peter B. Gay ‘35 • Father Francis 2001, junior Tessa Demmerle’s just to make sure he was okay and pretty easy decision to think E. Grogan, CSC, ‘51 • Amy Jarret, 28, of North Smith-biggest concern was a class pic-started talking to a secretary,” that we wanted to try to help field, Rhode Island • Dora Marie Menchaca ‘77 • Karen ture day at her school in Green-Ayers said. “She could hear the people who were studying Kincaid, 40, wife of Peter Batacan ‘83 • Army Lieutenant wich, Conn. devastation going on in the back-abroad with some of the ex-Colonel S. Neil Hyland, Jr. ‘77 • Robert Ferris ‘62, father “In the middle of taking our ground.” tra costs because that was of Ann (Ferris) Smith ‘94 and father-in-law of Derran class picture, the photographer Ayers said the Sept. 11 attacks an experience that she really Smith ‘94 • Gregory Malanowyez, 25, grandson of the late took a call on his cell phone, and made people her age more cynical valued.” Joseph Milanowycz ‘49 • Herman C. Broghammer, 58, I remember hearing him say ‘Is and wary than older generations. 
Maureen Bransfield, Kon-father of John Borghammer ‘96 • A 1996 Saint Mary’s Col-everyone okay?’” Demmerle said. “Everyone’s a lot more pessi­dratenko’s roommate in the lege graduate, Suzanne Kondratenko, 27 • Tim Murphy “And then we just stopped taking mistic about people in general,” Rome program, now lives in ‘56 lost his son Kevin Murphy • Katie McCloskey, daugh-pictures and were brought back to she said. “We’re just less willing to Rome. She said she thinks of ter of Richard McCloskey ‘67 and sister of Leslie McCloskey my classroom.” trust people.” Kondratenko often. ‘90 • Angie Gutermuth ‘95 lost her fiance, Christopher M. Although school officials told her Before the attacks, Demmerle 
“It didn’t take long to real-Dincuff, 31 • Richard Lynch, Jr., 31, son of Dick Lynch ‘58 and the rest of her middle school said she and many other Ameri­ize that [Suzanne] was a very • Edward Fracis “Teddy” Maloney III, 32, grandson of about the attacks, Demmerle said cans did not pay as much attention special and unique person,” James J. O’Neal ‘42 • Michael Lunden, 37, a vice president she also did not comprehend the to current events or world politics. Bransfield said. “Not only of the TradeSpark division and son of Jerry Lunden ‘57 • magnitude of the day at first. Now, national and international was she extremely intelli-Timothy Kelly, younger brother of Shawn P. Kell ‘74 and “I didn’t understand or really news demand attention, she said. gent, but she also had a very youngest son of the late John D. Kelly ‘44 • Armand Reo know about terrorism or what “We’re very interested in what’s quick wit and clever sense of ‘62 lost both his son, John Reo, 28, and his son-in-law, could result from it,” she said. “It going on in the world,” she said. humor.” John Swaine, 37 • James Patrick, 30, brother of Kevin just shocked me that some group “Everyone is very [invested] in 
Kondratenko came from Patrick ‘92 and bother-in-law of Julie Patrick ‘92 • Paul K. of people could destroy the lives knowing about the atrocities that a special family, Bransfield Sloan, 26, grandson of John Berres ‘44 • Tommy Clark, of so many people in my town happen in other places, since we said. 37, son of Richard J. Clark ‘57, son-in-law of Joe DiLallo ‘56 and take away someone’s dad or realized it can happen here as 
“I don’t feel right saying and nephew of David Clark ‘56 • Timothy G. Byrne, 36, mom.” well.” something about Suzanne brother of then Notre Dame sophomore Colin Byrne ‘04 • Ten years later, the events of As he reflected on the view of without expressing what a Howard G. Gelling, Jr., 28, husband of Chrissy O’Reilly Sept. 11 are still a painful but im-smoke clouding the sky above New loving and extraordinary ‘96 • Partick W. Danahy, 35, cousin of Michael Witaker portant memory. York City ten years ago, Henegan family she has,” Bransfield ‘89 • Bonnie S. Smithwick, 54, wife of Jim Smithwick ‘65 “You just think more about the said Sept. 11 woke young people said. “I think the best thing • Robert W. McPadden, 30, husband of Kate (Bambrick) world now, and how we’re a huge to the way international tragedy we can do for her, and for her McPadden ‘94 • Thomas Mingione, 34, nephew of Anthony part of it, especially living in New could strike the United States. family, is to let them know Mistretta ‘48 • Stephen Fallon, a member of the Program York,” Henegan said. “You realize “It was just such a global inci­that Suzanne is not, and will of Liberal Studies and English faculties, lost his eldest how big of a deal the United States dent, it was all over the news and not, be forgotten.” brother, William is and how important we are glob-you just think, ‘Wow, this is our 
Bigelow said she admires ally. You didn’t realize that before.” home’,” he said. “You just didn’t the Kondratenko family for Content courtesy of Notre Dame Magazine For Demmerle, the effect was think stuff like that on the news their strength in the grieving more personal. She said she still could happen so close to home.” process. fears flying as a result of that day. 
“When we lost [Suzanne], “The summer after Sept. 11 we Contact Melissa Flanagan at it was really upsetting,” Bi-BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer flew to Italy, and there was a man mflanag3@nd.edu 

individuals,” Tringali said. “It is important that the commu­nity is able to come together in order to support those who have suffered the loss of their loved ones.” 
Kimberly Roland, a senior, said 9/11 changed both her life and her faith. 


Mass 
continued from page 1 
pacity for evil, a recognition of our need for solidarity and support in the most difficult times that we inevitably face,” Malloy said. 
Despite the confusion and sorrow of that day, Malloy re­called the sense of unity in the student body during that first Mass in 2001. 
“One of my most vivid mem­ories was when, at the Lord’s Prayer when normally you gather hands, they locked arms like the Alma Mater,” Malloy said. “It was a way that we could have intimate, per­sonal contact 
ning, senior Stephanie My­ers said stu­dents stand­ing near her wrapped their arms around each other to mirror the Mass 10 years before. 
“It was a symbol of us all coming together as one fam­ily,” she said. 
During the prayers of inten­tion, student body president Pat McCormick read a list of the names of the members of the Notre Dame community killed Sept. 11. 
The list included four Notre Dame alumni — 1951 gradu­ate Fr. Francis Grogan, 1962 alumnus Robert Ferris and 1977 graduates Dora Marie Menchaca and Lt. Col. Neil Hy-land, Jr. 
time to re­member 9/11 tonight be­cause 12 peo­ple from my town lost their lives that day, including the father of a friend of my sis­ter,” she said. “People waited so long for their family mem-
He also read 25 names of people related to Notre Dame graduates killed in the attacks. 
“For all those who lost their lives in the terrorist attacks 10 years ago today in New York, in Washington and in Pennsyl­vania, especially fire fighters, police officers and emergency technicians ... We pray to the Lord,” McCormick said. 
Members of the Notre Dame Security Police and the Notre Dame Fire Department brought the offertory gifts down the aisle. 
Freshman Sam Bevilacqua said the atmosphere through­out the Mass and the candlelit procession was “somber.” 
“It was also a peaceful time to reflect on the events of 10 
years ago,” 
Bevilacqua 
said. “The 
whole experi­
ence, the stu-
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary’s College community paid tribute to the events of 9/11 with dance, poetry and music during the “We Re­member” commemoration Sunday afternoon. 
Faculty, students and com­munity members attended the event in the Little Theatre to reflect on the tenth anni­versary of Sept. 11. 
Laurel Thomas, professor and chair of the Department of Music, was the coordinator for the event. 
“We wanted to capture a mood of meditation,” Thomas said. “While we wanted the faculty recital to remember 9/11, we also wanted to send a message of hope and looking forward.” 
Librarian Robert Hohl and English faculty members Sr. Eva Marie Hooker, Jessica Maich and Max Westler recited poems. 
The commemoration also featured musical pieces from professors Jeffrey Jacob, Dan­iel Party and Thomas. 
Dance professor Indi Dieck­grafe performed an original dance, and cellist Lara Turner and clarinetist Jason Gresl performed “Dust” by Belinda Reynolds. 
Junior Bailey Byerly said she was moved by the “We Remem­ber” commemoration. 
“It was very reflective,” Byer­ly said. “It wasn’t upsetting, 

LIGHTS IN THE DARKNESS 



Campus 
continued from page 1 
Another person came running in saying ‘the World Trade bomber’ or something like that.” 
But Horvath did not fully realize the significance of the event until he turned on the TV and felt the atmosphere in the dorm. 
“Everyone was running around saying ‘Hey, did you hear?’” he said. “It was eerily silent, and ev­eryone was watching the TV. If you can imagine a dorm full of people and everyone was doing the exact same thing.” 
For many, like Horvath and 2002 graduate Todd Boylan, the initial instinct was to call home and check on loved ones. 
Horvath’s uncle worked near the Twin Towers, and Boylan’s father had an office in the World Trade Center. Though the students later found out their relatives made it through the attacks unharmed, they said the initial unknown was stressful. 
“I was trying to call but the phone service was already full ... Then the first tower went down, and I really started freaking out,” Boylan said. “A long 20 minutes went by [until my dad] called my mom, and my mom called me and said he was okay.” 
Boylan said the atmosphere among students was “very som­ber.” Horvath called it “eerily calm and quiet.” 
Malloy, who was University president at the time, canceled classes that day. He said the stu­dent body was glued to the TV, watching for updates. 
“I mean, I wonder how many people ate dinner that night,” he said. “My guess is a lot of people bought sandwiches and just sat in front of the TV and watched it all night.” 
But Malloy couldn’t dwell too though. It was an artistic way to look back and remember.” 
Junior Emily Pearl also en­joyed the performances and the opportunity to reflect on what happened 10 years ago. 
“It made me think back to when I first heard about the at­tacks,” Pearl said. “It brought back the feeling I had on that day, and really made me think about all the people and fami­lies affected.” 
Thomas stressed the impor­tance of remembering 9/11 and the lessons learned from it. 
“It’s the idea that love lives on and life lives on,” she said. “We’re not trying to relive, we’re trying to remember.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles@saintmarys.edu 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Nearly 5,000 students solemnly carried candles through campus Sunday evening from the Mass held outside Hesburgh Library to the Grotto as part of the University’s 9/11 commemoration. 
Horvath recalled the somber at­mosphere of the gathering. 
“The two things I really remem­ber were how quiet it was ... and how students can come together,” he said. 
Boylan said he received calls from other students checking in on him and his family, and he did the same for others. 
“On a student-to-student level, I think everybody who was from the East Coast called each other,” he said. 
The Notre Dame community’s efforts to care for those suffering continued after the day of the at­tacks. 
At the first home football game following the tragedy, Notre Dame honored New York City firefight­ers and police officers.  The crowd raised around $100,000 for the victims, Malloy said. 
South Bend residents also raised money to replace an ambulance lost in the attacks in New York City. 
Malloy then felt the desire to visit the site where so many lives were lost. 
“I decided I had to go to New York and see it for myself,” he said. 
About a month after the attacks, Malloy did just that, and one of the officers who the University hon­ored at the football game picked Malloy up at the airport. For two days, Malloy had “total access” to Ground Zero. 
To this day, Malloy can still re­member the experience — the sights, the smells and the sounds 
— and what it felt like at the site of the attacks. 
“It was just an overwhelming experience,” he said. 
To find out more about Malloy’s experience at Ground Zero, watch The Observer’s video blog interview with Malloy at www. ndsmcobserver.com/blogs/nd­minute 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
long on his emotional reaction to the attacks, which hit his home­town of Washington D.C. He quick­ly shifted his focus to mobilizing the Notre Dame community. 
“First thing I said is, ‘What do we do when we have a crisis?’” he said. “We have a Mass. That’s what Notre Dame does.” 
Malloy and others quickly got to work setting up an outdoor Mass to be celebrated by the flagpole on South Quad. He estimated 8,000 to 10,000 people from the Notre Dame and South Bend communi­ties attended. 
Malloy used the statue of Je­sus standing with his arms out­stretched beneath the Golden Dome as inspiration for his homily. 
“That image of the Sacred Heart of Jesus with the arms out­stretched, [saying], ‘Come to me with all your problems,’” he said. “I just thought that was a comfort­ing way to think about all of this.” 
Malloy said the University in­vited the Muslim Student As­sociation to the Mass, and the members attended as a group. In his homily, Malloy emphasized the importance of supporting one another and not blaming a par­ticular group for the tragedy of the attacks. 
“I was just trying to help create a climate where we knew as long as we stuck together, we could make it through” he said. 
Boylan, who attended the ser­vice, said the chatter or distrac­tions common during a normal Mass were gone. 
“It was really serious,” he said. “Everybody was really confused and scared and [attending Mass] made it easier to deal with.” 
Malloy was also struck by the intensity of the group who gath­ered on the packed quad. 
“Everybody looked transfixed. There was a lot of fear in the air,” he said. “When it was over and we marched out, nobody left. I mean, after the last hymn was finished, it was like nobody wanted to leave.” 

“It was a peaceful time 
with one an-dents linking 
to reflect on the events 
other to say, arms, was a ‘I’ll be there of 10 years ago. The very moving for you now whole experience, the time.” and in the students linking arms, As he faced days ahead.’” was a very moving time.” the silent 
During the crowd, Mal-Our Father on loy said that 
Sam Bevilacqua 
Sunday eve-the Mass, so 
freshman 

similar to the 
campus Mass 
on Sept. 11, 
2001, was 
still a chance to unite around a tragedy and support one another. 
“Even in our family here at Notre Dame, we have known loss in 9/11,” Malloy said. “And so in our memory, we recall what once was. We recognize that when we are our best in this community, we are to­gether in mutual support and prayer. 
“Let our presence here to­night be one more sign that God abides in the community, a community of faith, of intel­lectual inquiry and of service.” 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IN FOCUS Monday, September 12, 2011 Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u IN FOCUS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



2003 2004 2005 

March 20, 2003 
Nov. 30, 2004 

United States warplanes launch 1,700 aerial Charlie Weis, attacks in 24 hours on Baghdad, beginning the offensive coor ongoing Operation Iraqi Freedom. dinator for the New England Dec. 13, 2003 Patriots, is chosen 
to replace Tyrone Operation Red Dawn culminates in the capture of Willingham as Saddam Hussein by U.S. Army personnel. He was Notre Dame head executed Dec. 30, 2006. coach. 
March 11, 2004 
Terrorists loosely connected to al Qaeda attack the commuter train system in Madrid, killing 191 people and wounding over 1,800. 
Nov. 2, 2004 
Incumbent President George W. Bush is reelected, defeating Senator John Kerry (D MA) with 50.7 percent of the popular vote. 





AP 

In this 1990 file photo, the World Trade Center s twin towers rise above the New York City skyline before they crumbled in the 2001 terrorist attacks. 
OBSERVER FILE PHOTOS/Courtesy of the Notre Dame Archives 
Left: A member of the U.S. Marine Corps kneels with students at the Grotto on Sept. 11, 2001. Center: Students grieve together in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. Right: University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk Malloy addresses the Notre Dame community in a Sept. 11, 2001 Mass on South Quad. 
2006 2007 
July 5, 2005 
Four British nationals with connections to Islamic terrorist groups detonate bombs on the London transport system, killing 52 and wounding more than 700. 

2008 

July 16, 2008 

Jack Swarbrick, an Indianapolis lawyer, takes over as Notre Dame di rector of athletics for Kevin White, who left to take the same position at Duke University. 
2009 2010 2011 

Nov. 4, 2008 
Dec. 25, 2009 
A 22 year old Nigerian man attempts to light ex plosives hidden in his underwear during a Christ 
Mohamed Bouazizi, a fruit vendor, self immolates in Tunis, Tunisia, sparking months of uprising 
May 2, 2011 
Osama bin Laden, the al Qaeda leader, is shot and killed inside a safehouse in Abbottabad, Pakistan by elite U.S. Special Forces. 


AP 
On Sept. 10, 2011, the eve of the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, beams of light at Ground Zero illuminate the night sky where the Worrld Trade Center towers once stood. 
OBSERVER FILE PHOTOS/Courtesy of the Notre Dame Archives 
Top left: Students join hands while praying the “Our Father during the Mass of Remembrance on Sunday evening for the 9/11 anniversary. Top right: News of Osama bin Laden s death spurred celebration throughout campus in May. Bottom right: A candlelight procession led students to the Grotto, where some kneel in prayer. Bottom left: Malloy delivers the homily at Sunday evening s Mass of Remembrance for the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks. 


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IN FOCUS Monday, September 12, 2011 





Professors examine post-9/11 America 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
On a sunny September morn­ing 10 years ago, Law School Professor Jimmy Gurulé was sitting in his office in Washing­ton, D.C. when a plane piloted by terrorists struck the nearby Pentagon.  
Gurulé, then undersecretary for enforcement for the Depart­ment of Treasury, was among the government officials who immediately began working to respond to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks that shook the nation. 
“The impact of 9/11 has been sweeping,” Gurulé said. “It has impacted national security, se­curity at airports, new regula­tions on banks — and it has also resulted in certain infringe­ments on civil liberties.” 
In the days following Sept. 11, 2001, Gurulé played a cen­tral role in developing a plan to seize terrorist funds so the at­tacks could never be repeated. He served in the Department of Treasury until 2003. 
Ten years later, Gurulé said Americans should not forget the attacks or their consequences. 
“We also need to be sensitive to the intrusion of government,” Gurulé said. “It’s a very fine bal­ance. The goal and object of se­curing the home lands needs to be done in a way not intrusive to civil liberties.” 
However, Gurulé said he be­lieves the United States is safer now than it was 10 years ago. 
“I do think we are a more se­cure country,” he said. “I don’t think it’s an accident that there hasn’t been another attack. We’re much more vigilant, but it’s come at a very high price.” 
Political science Professor Mi­chael Desch said a response im­mediately after the attacks was necessary. However, he said some decisions made after the attacks do deserve criticism. 
“The lesson of 9/11 is that ter­rorism is a real threat,” Desch said. “The lesson from our re­action to 9/11 is the danger of overreaction is great, if not greater than that of under-re­action.” 
The United States’ involve­ment in Iraq is an example of overreaction, he said. Another is the highly invasive airport security checkpoint. 
“[Going through invasive se­curity] is more than a matter of personal inconvenience,” Desch said. “In a sense Al Qaeda has achieved some victories because we live in fear ... In some small amount, Al Qaeda has succeed­ed in disrupting our lives. 
“Terrorism is one of those things [we overestimate]. It is so spectacular and out of the blue, but you’re more likely to die from complications in a her­nia surgery than in a terrorist attack. We now have a tendency to be afraid of the real thing in disproportional ways.” 
The current challenge for the United States is continued weakness in the country’s econ­omy, Desch said. 
“[The economy] affects our foreign policy in a number of ways,” Desch said. “With our in­volvement in Iraq and Afghani­stan, that has to change. The Department of Defense is one of the biggest chunks of discre­tionary spending. We’re look­ing at a period of retrenchment [composed of] part budget de­bacle, part weariness of Ameri­can people.” 
Anthropology Professor Cyn­thia Mahmood said her travels abroad showed her the inter­national effects of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the strained relations between the U.S. and the Middle East. 
“[The 9/11 terrorist attacks] had their biggest impact on the Muslim world,” Mahmood said. “Of course, [the U.S.] has been severely traumatized. We can’t diminish that the U.S. has been transformed.” 
Like Gurulé, Mahmood said she is worried Americans gave up their freedoms for a false sense of security. 
“I was afraid that the U.S. population would be too ready to relinquish their civil liber­ties,” Mahmood said. “[These events] have also made Ameri­cans even prouder of ourselves and increased American excep­tionalism. It has made others dislike us.” 
This attitude sparked contro­versial debates over the past 10 years, Mahmood said. 
“Think of last summer’s de­bate over the mosque construc­tion near Ground Zero,” she said. “The fact that Americans would even doubt the constitu­tional right for them to build is completely appalling. The way the U.S. responded [to 9/11] re­ally put us on a wartime footing. The way that ‘War on Terror’ was defined makes it impossible to see how we could step back from the posture we’re assum­ing.” 
Mahmood, who often works with refugees, said America lost its “outstretched hand” of sym­pathy after the 2001 attacks. 
“We’re living with a basic backdrop of fear,” she said. “Our first response is to be sus­picious now.” 
Mahmood said she believes no amount of technology and military strength will keep the 
U.S. safe. 
“The only thing that can is sustainable coexistence with other cultures,” Mahmood said. “We need to have sustainable dialogue, making sure we pro­tect their rights. If we would’ve taken the last 10 years teach­ing Americans this lesson, it would’ve been time better spent.” 
Law Professor Mary Ellen O’Connell said she hopes the United States will one day grow weary of military efforts as a solution to terrorists. 
“The decision to fight a major war in Afghanistan in response to 9/11 instead of carrying out a focused counter-terrorism ef­fort has been extremely costly for the U.S,” she said. 
O’Connell, who was in Man­hattan when the World Trade Centers fell in 2001, said the attacks moved her to work and pray harder for an end to vio­lence. 
“Because of the economic sit­uation the United States finds it­self in after 10 years of fighting, the next 10 years should see us pursue a more modest military policy abroad,” she said. 
“The lessons learned from 9/11 and the decade after are to focus more effectively and with the most appropriate tools to the real challenges we face — to preserve peace, to rebuild our economy [and] to protect the en­vironment and the needs of the poor throughout the world.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Experts talk U.S., Middle East relations 



By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Ten years after the 2001 terrorist attacks, the peace-building strategies in a post­9/11 world have shifted in priority and practice, ex­perts said during a panel at the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies on Friday afternoon. 
Kroc Institute Director Scott Appleby said the anni­versary prompted the panel to explore both the events fol­lowing the attacks and their effect on the United States’ foreign policy. 
“Certainly, we want to fo­cus on that event,” Appleby said. “We hoped we could say something [about the at­tacks] in a more innovative way, by focusing on not only what we have learned in the decade since 9/11, [but also on] the prospects for building 
peace and what role the United States will play in add­
ing  peace  
and  stabil­ 
ity  to  the  

world.” 
Panel­ist Robin Wright, who works as a foreign cor­respondent, Middle East ings led to over 12,000 Iraqi deaths and over 30,000 inju­ries since the beginning of the war in Iraq. 
This cost motivated the 
region’s resident s to take ac­tion against inju stice, Wright said. 
“For the first time, people are not just re­acting,” Wright said. “They are trying to seize the initiative term found in the Qur’an that refers to 
“The obstacle to this is the quaking to get the media and of the heart government to really and comes take religion seriously from the and as a solution.” Arabic root 
“to shake or quake.” 
Waleed El-Ansary 
“[The
profesor 
verse in the Xavier University Qur’an] said 
themselves and shape their own future.” 
Wright said she did not want the United States to get directly involved in future Arab efforts to establish de­
“To me, one of the great stories of the Middle East, and perhaps the most potent political story of the early 21st century, is this wave of uprising across the region.” 
Robin Wright foreign correspondent 
mo c ra c y. She said she hopes the 
U.S. govern­ment will instead aid develop­ment pro­grams but avoid get­ting in­volved in the region’s military disputes. 
“We need those who 
cause the 
quaking of the heart in the city, the pun­ishment for them is execu­tion in this life and hell in the hereafter,” he said. “There is no more powerful condemna­tion that we can use then by calling terrorists ‘irjaf.’” 
When religion starts to be­come part of the solution in­stead of part of the problem, El-Ansary said he believed real change could happen in the Middle East. 
“The obstacle to this is to get media and government to really take religion seriously and as a solution,” he said. 
Retired Army officer and historian Andrew Bacevich said the religious and milita­ristic conflicts that dominat­ed the last 10 years changed the way Americans view war. 
“Prior to 9/11, most Ameri­cans viewed war as an [ab­normal] condition,” Bacevich said. “Today that is no longer the case.” 
The Pentagon uses the term “era of consistent con­
flict” to de­
scribe this expert and U.S. foreign policy analyst, said the Arab Spring conflicts reflected a change in how the people of the Mid­dle East protest. 
“To me what has trans­pired over the past nine or 10 months has really been to signal and show that the future is in the hands of the activists, civil society, help­ing empower women,” Wright said. 
Panelist Waleed El-Ansary, the chair of Islamic studies at Xavier University, said peace 
extraordinary — that the build ers world’s most volatile region need to un­is today engaged in so many derstand the places in peaceful, civil dis-role religion obedience,” Wright said. plays in the 
Wright has worked in the region. region since she first land-The West­ed in Tehran, Iran in 1973. ern world During her time there, she believes the witnessed the 1973 suicide word jihad bombings against the United means “holy States Embassy and the 1983 war,” El-bombings of a U.S. marine Ansary said. compound in Beirut, Leba-H o w eve r , non. this word 
“I know what the violence does not re-of the region looks like,” fer to an Wright said. “To me, one of actual war the great stories of the Mid-and instead 
“Now, the American constant people accepts as fact state of war, that wars in which the 
Bacevich said. 
United States engages are 
“Now, the 
expected to be protracted, 
America n
prove to be very costly 
people ac-
and will probably end 
cept as fact 
not in victory, but 
that wars in producing some in which ambiguous outcome.” the United States en­gages are expected to 
Andrew Bacevich 
historian 
be protract­ed, prove to be very 
costly and will probably end not in victory, but in produc­ing some ambiguous out­come,” he said. 
“Today, war is the new nor­malcy.” 

Contant Anna Boarini at aboarini01@saintmarys.edu 
dle East, and perhaps the most potent political story of the early 21st century, is this wave of uprising across the region.” 
Wright said Muslims in the Middle East have paid the biggest price since the Sept. 11 attacks. Suicide bomb-means “a struggle in the name of God.” 
“By calling extremists ‘Ji­hadist,’ what we are doing is validating their claim to extremism,” he said. “What this really does is it identifies religion as the source of the problem.” 
Instead of calling extrem­ist Muslims who use terror­ism “Jihadist,” El-Ansary said they should be called “irjaf.” He said “irjaf” is a 






