
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Football players tackle local service 

Photo courtesy of Center for Social Concerns 

Senior offensive guard Trevor Robinson greets refugee children placed in South Bend by the Red Cross. Robinson worked with the children during the service learning course offered by the Center for Social Concerns. 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
After fielding questions from reporters about the upcoming Air Force game Tuesday, ju­nior Cierre Wood lit up when he talked about Christian, a young boy he met at the South Bend Center for the Homeless this summer through a one-credit service learning course offered by the Center for Social Con­cerns (CSC). 
Co-taught by Professors Bill Purcell and Mike Hebbeler, the class combined guest speakers and lectures in the morning with community service activi­ties in the afternoon. 
“[The class] gives [student­athletes] a way to engage with 


Steve Jobs, Apple founder, dies at 56 

Associated Press 
CUPERTINO, Calif. — Steve Jobs, the Apple founder and former CEO who invented and masterfully marketed ever-sleeker gadgets that trans­formed everyday technology, from the personal computer to the iPod and iPhone, died Wednesday. He was 56. 
Apple announced his death without giving a specific cause. He died peacefully, ac­cording to a statement from family members who said they were present. 
“Steve’s brilliance, passion and energy were the source of countless innovations that enrich and improve all of our lives,” Apple’s board said in a statement. “The world is im­measurably better because of 
see JOBS/page 3 
the community to learn about themselves,” Hebbeler said. “To be stretched, to be challenged and hopefully to experience op­portunities that really speak to them in hopes of going for­ward.” 
Wood said becoming friends with Christian through the class reminded him of how blessed he was. 

“Everybody isn’t lucky enough to have a regular, normal life,” Wood said. “I see [these kids], and they’re still laughing and having fun, and taking life for what it is. It just makes you ap­preciate the little things you have in your life.” 
Wood said he keeps a picture 
see SERVICE/page 4 

Online forum facilitates academic life dialogue 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
As an online forum for students, by students, The Hub works to spark dialogue about academic life at Notre Dame through a digital me­dium. 
As The Hub nears its first anniversary, seniors and Co-Editors-in-Chief Kirsten Adam and Paul Baranay said the website successfully es­tablished creative conversa­tion at the University during the past year. 
“We wanted it to be a fo­rum for academic dialogue, but we wanted to redefine the definition of academic,” Baranay said. “To us, your academic life isn’t just what you do in the classroom.” 
Adam said any student with a Notre Dame ID could post on the website, found at thehub.nd.edu, about re­search, study abroad experi­ences, service, written work or any idea that gets them ticking. 
“It’s peer discussion, stud­ies with professors, or even just issues people want to talk about,” Adam said. 
When the two began plan­ning the website in spring of 2010, their first objective was rallying a staff around the project. After they as­sembled a team of nine students, The Hub editors worked on realizing content in a web interface. 
“The biggest hurdle was the technical one — coding and developing the site,” Ba­ranay said. 
Baranay said once the team overcame this first challenge, they pitched the idea of The Hub to different academic offices on campus. The website received spon­sorships from nine different offices, he said. 
Once autumn arrived, The Hub made its debut. Since its launch, The Hub has gained a following of at least 450 visitors per week. 
The editors-in-chief said the website grew in popular­ity mainly through word of mouth, though they recently launched the “Poster Wall” campaign. 
see HUB/page 4 
Jenkins honored as leader 
Observer Staff Report 
An Indiana youth center honored University President Fr. John Jenkins Wednes­day as a role model making a significant difference in the lives of young people, accord ­ing to a Universi­ty press release. 
The Wer n le Yout h & Fam­ily Treat­ment Center recognized Jen­kins with its 2011 national Catalyst for Change Award at a ceremony and dinner Wednesday, the press re­lease stated. 
“Wernle is a family-fo­cused, child-centered agency that provides opportunities for the growth and develop­ment of troubled children and their families — indi­vidually, interpersonally and socially — through car­ing programs and healing relationships,” the release stated. 
Located in Richmond, Ind., 

see JENKINS/page 5 
Student injured in bike crash 
Observer Staff Report 
A Notre Dame student re­ceived treatment at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center for inju­ries sustained in a bike accident on South Quad on Wednesday evening. 
The student crashed his bike at about 7 p.m. Wednesday near Howard Hall. Notre Dame Secu­rity Police (NDSP) and emergency technicians treated the student at the scene, and an ambulance transported him to the hospital shortly after the accident. 
The student’s rector said he is still disoriented from the crash but will recover from his injuries. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Sheepskin diplomas thing of past page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u “Elynia” book signing page 8 u Hockey joining Hockey East conference page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, October 6, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH HOLIDAY IS BETTER, HALLOWEEN OR ST. PATRICK’S DAY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Andrew Owens Anna Boarini Vicky Jacobson Emma Russ Katie Heit Graphics Scene Laura Laws Alexandra Photo Kilpatrick Mackenzie Sain Viewpoint Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 77 LOW 55 



Francie Crowell  Ellen Carroll  Nick Daegele  Derek Novacek  Bill Shields  Alexa Wilson  
junior  junior  junior  junior  senior  junior  
Welsh Family  Badin  Alumni  Dillon  Stanford  Lyons  
“St. Patrick’s  “St. Patrick’s  “St. Patty’s  “Halloween.”  “Halloween.”  “Halloween.”  
Day.”  Day.”  Day — no scary  
monsters .”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
New Mexco fraternity finds goat head on front porch 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — University of New Mexico police are trying to deter­mine who left a severed goat head on the porch of a fra­ternity house. 
KOB-TV reports that mem­bers of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity found the head last week and reported it to authorities. 
Phi Gamma Delta Presi­dent Javier Manriquez says that after he saw the head, he took a photo of it and threw it out. 
Manriquez says there was a note attached to the par­tially-skinned goat head. He says the note had the word “done” written on it with a heart over the letter “o.” 

According to University of New Mexico police, the goat head looked like it was bought at a store. 
No arrests have been made. 
Bus driver kicks mother and crying child off bus 
PORTLAND, Ore. — A driver in Oregon’s largest public transit agency berat­ed a woman and her crying baby into getting off a bus in a Portland suburb, say­ing “I can’t drive with that noise,” another passenger said Monday. 
When the mother and the baby got off the bus at a stop in Hillsboro, other passen­gers also left en masse in protest, she added. 
Mary Fetsch, a spokes­woman for the agency that runs mass transit in the Portland metropolitan area, said TriMet’s policy is not to remove people such as women with children from a bus. The driver, who was not identified, has been placed on administrative leave while the agency in­vestigates the complaint from the incident Thursday, Fetsch said. 
In a conversation with a dispatcher immediately af­ter the confrontation, the bus driver described the baby as not “just crying.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Returned Peace Corp vol­unteers will join us on cam­pus starting today to help the University celebrate the Peace Corps’ 50th Anniver­sary. They will be on cam­pus until Saturady. 
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in the Institute for Latino Studies Jessica Brock will host a presenta­tion titled, “Realizing the DREAM Act” today from 
12:45 to 1:45 p.m. The pre­sentation will be held in Room 1140 in the Eck Hall of Law. She will discuss is­sues of development and ed­ucation for alien minors in the United States. 
Howard Hall will host its third annual Totter for Wa­ter. a 24-hour teeter-totter marathon to support the Global Water Initiative. The event will begin this evening at 5 p.m. on South Quad. 
Associate Professor Julia Douthwaite will host a lec­ture titled, “The Queen and Us, or Why Cosmopolitan­ism has not been a Force of Humanism,” today from 
5:15 to 6:45 p.m. The lecture will be held in Room 118 De-Bartolo Hall. 
A production of Mary Zimmerman’s “The Secret in the Wings” will show to­night in the Philbin Studio Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show will run from 7:30 to 
9:30 p.m. Student tickets cost $7. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to  obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









HIGH 81 LOW 55 
HIGH 80 LOW 55 
HIGH 77 LOW 51 
HIGH 77 LOW 54 

Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
App alerts students to discounts 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Students will receive remind­ers to visit local businesses that offer discounts by downloading Vidappe, a mobile application that connects users with 41 dis­counts in the South Bend area. 
Star Li, a 2010 graduate of Cornell University, and a friend developed the free application for the iPhone and Android to remind people when they are near businesses that offer spe­cial deals. 
“It’s kind of like having a ser­vice following you around re­minding you to do stuff,” Li said. “You would start getting alerts for all 41. Within the settings, you can choose what type of alerts you get. If you don’t want to get alerts for restaurants, you can turn that off.” 
Users subscribe to receive alerts for a specific program of discounts, Li said. They then in­dicate whether they are walking or driving, and Vidappe alerts users when they approach busi­nesses in the program. Students can redeem discounts with their Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s identification cards. 
“It’s definitely quite different from a lot of apps out there that you download and forget about immediately,” she said. “The app is always on and if it no­tices that you’re getting close to something, it sends you an alert. You yourself will never actually have to think about anything.” 
Vidappe works in conjunction with Students for South Bend, a student government initiative that organizes local discounts for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s College and Holy Cross students, student body vice president Brett Rocheleau said. 
The Student Activities Office (SAO) will decide within the 
University diplomas now printed on paper 
next week whether to support Vidappe, Rocheleau said. If SAO approves the application, stu­dent government will promote it. 
“We’ll have it at COR [Council of Representatives], we’ll have it at [Student] Senate, we’ll may­be go to HPC [Hall Presidents Council],” he said. 
Rocheleau also said student government might utilize the off-campus e-mail listserv to reach students that are most likely to use Vidappe. 
Vidappe users can subscribe to the University College Dis­counts program, which offers approximately 20 additional discounts, Li 
“It’s kind of like, ‘I’ll check out the discounts online and re­mind myself to use my student ID to save at Indulgence, but I’ll probably forget about this five minutes later,’” Li said. “‘On the other hand, Vidappe will re­mind me to save at Indulgence when I’m a block away, and be­cause I’m so physically close by already, I’m much more likely to go in and check it out.’” 
Rocheleau downloaded the application on an iPhone and an Android approximately a month ago. 
“The app has been very successful, especially on my 
phone,” he 
said. “There’ve 
been two 
are over 170 programs, you can literally subscribe to any program that applies to you.” 
Li released the iPhone appli­cation in June and the Android version in August, she said. There are currently six users participating in Vidappe’s Stu­dents for South Bend program. 
“I think that was actually a really bad time because all the students were out for the sum­mer, so even though [Vidappe] has been out for a while, we haven’t been able to get a hold of anyone,” Li said. “It’s popular in odd pockets of the U.S. right now, but I’m definitely trying to expand it.” 
Li developed the application after she noticed that many people forget which businesses offer discounts. 
Program were 
only listed on paper and on the student gov­ernment website, so many stu­dents did not know about them. 
“The app is a nice way for our discounts to be promoted and for students not to have to carry around papers and remember what that discount is,” he said. 
Feedback about Vidappe has been positive so far, Li said. 
“I think the response I’ve been getting most is people say­ing, ‘I had no idea that restau­rant offered a discount. I used to go there all the time and I had no idea,’” Li said. “In a lot of cases, it was people being really surprised they had stuff around town.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Sheep of the world are breath­ing a sigh of relief, now that the University will no longer be print­ing diplomas on sheepskin. 
As of last year, Notre Dame was one of only five schools in the na­tion who printed diplomas on sheepskin. Beginning in 2012, the University will change to printing diplomas on high-quality paper. University officials knew that this change would come in the next few years, but the official decision for the immediate switch was final­ized earlier this week, catalyzed by the closing of the company that supplied the sheepskin prints, ac­cording to Associate University Registrar Chuck Hurley. 
Hurley said that the switch will benefit Notre Dame in the long run. 
“If you look back at Notre Dame’s history, both sheepskin and paper diplomas have been offered since the turn of the cen­tury,” Hurley said. “It has varied from time to time when sheep­skin was unavailable, so we’ve had kind of an odd history where we went back and forth between sheepskin and paper.” 
At times, the spotty availability of sheepskin has caused problems with the uniform printing of di­plomas. 
“In the 1960s, you’d see stu­dents with same degree at gradu­ation, but some would have it on sheepskin and some had paper,” Hurley said. “In the late 1960s, Notre Dame switched to a sheep­skin default but offered paper as well upon request.” 
The sheepskin vendor used by the University is the last of its kind remaining in the United States, a fact that speaks to the decreasing popularity of the material. Last week, the vendor told University officials that it will no longer be printing sheepskin diplomas. 
“The unique printing process [for sheepskin] involves lead type, and industry regulators were very concerned,” Hurley said. “The company told us that due to lower order volumes and to avoid caus­ing problems for their employees, they decided to no longer make sheepskins.” 
The switch coincides with the trend observed by the Office of the Registrar that more and more stu­dents have been asking for paper over sheepskin over the years. Ac­cording to Hurley, the new paper should prove far more durable than the sheepskin. 
“Each year, the registrar’s office gets requests from students for re­prints of diplomas that had been damaged by the sun, humidity, etc.,” said Hurley. “Sheepskin, as a biological entity, can fade, shrink, and wrinkle, but paper is less in­clined to do those things.” 
The overall expense of print­ing diplomas should remain fairly constant — the paper itself costs slightly less, but now the Office will invest in software and high-quality printers to prepare the diplomas. An added bonus for the University is the shifting of re­sources from paying a third-party printer to using printers inside the Office of the Registrar. 
“We worked with student gov­ernment last year to select a new paper diploma for the University,” Hurley said. “It uses the same typeface, the same seal and looks exactly the same to the untrained eye, but now it will be on the same high-quality paper that is used by Harvard, Princeton and Oxford to print diplomas.” 
The change has been finalized and will be in effect in time for the graduation ceremonies in Janu­ary 2012. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
or 
“The app has been very 
said. three different 
successful, especially on 
“It sort of upgrades so 
aggregates my phone. There’ve been far.” all programs two or three  different Rocheleau available to upgrades so far.” said in the college stu-past, discounts dents nation-through the 
Brett Rocheleau 
wide,” Li said. Students for 
student body vice president 
“Because there South Bend 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
Steve.” 
Jobs had battled cancer in 2004 and underwent a liver transplant in 2009 after tak­ing a leave of absence for un­specified health problems. He took another leave of absence in January — his third since his health problems began — and officially resigned in Au­gust. He took another leave of absence in January — his third since his health prob­lems began — before resign­ing as CEO six weeks ago. Jobs became Apple’s chairman and handed the CEO job over to his hand-picked successor, Tim Cook. 
Outside Apple’s Cupertino headquarters, three flags — an American flag, a California state flag and an Apple flag — were flying at half-staff late Wednesday. 
“Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor.” Cook wrote in an email to Apple’s employees. “Steve leaves behind a com­pany that only he could have built, and his spirit will forev­er be the foundation of Apple.” 
The news Apple fans and shareholders had been dread­ing came the day after Apple unveiled its latest version of the iPhone, just one in a pro­cession of devices that shaped technology and society while Jobs was running the com­pany. 
Jobs started Apple with a high school friend in a Silicon Valley garage in 1976, was forced out a decade later and returned in 1997 to rescue the company. During his second stint, it grew into the most valuable technology company in the world with a market value of $351 billion. Almost all that wealth has been cre­ated since Jobs’ return. 
Cultivating Apple’s coun­tercultural sensibility and a minimalist design ethic, Jobs rolled out one sensational product after another, even in the face of the late-2000s recession and his own failing health. 
He helped change computers from a geeky hobbyist’s obses­sion to a necessity of modern life at work and home, and in the process he upended not just personal technology but the cellphone and music in­dustries. 
For transformation of Amer­ican industry, he has few rivals He has long been linked to his personal computer-age con­temporary, Bill Gates, and has drawn comparisons to other creative geniuses such as Walt Disney. Jobs died as Walt Dis­ney Co.’s largest shareholder, a by-product of his decision to sell computer animation stu­dio Pixar in 2006. 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Thursday, October 6, 2011 

According to the press re-care facility. He said he en-lease, 54 Notre Dame football joyed getting to know patients 
Service 

players participated in the through facilitating different class this summer. activities for them. continued from page 1 “Some of them were reluc-“My favorite personally was 
tant at first because it was dif-when we did manicure day the in his locker that Christian ferent,” Hebbeler said. “It was first Friday we were there for gave him in gratitude of his really great for Bill and I to see the ladies there,” Golic said. friendship. the transformation over the pe-“All of us got to get our hands 
“Everyone was playing duck, riod of the course, [to see] guys dirty with that, paint some duck, goose, and [Christian] really warming up to folks in nails, and get out of our ele­was just over there by himself,” the community and clients at ment a little bit. It was a lot of Wood said. “I didn’t really like these different organizations fun.” to see him over there by him-and forming real relationships, Golic said he gained a new self so I wanted to go over there having discussions and listen-perspective from witnessing an introduce myself to try to ing to some of the challenges the patients’ struggles. 
unless you know them.” 

make a new friend… He gave and developing empathy.” “We saw an 18-year-old girl Baranay said The Hub 
me a picture, and on the back Purcell said both the student-who was a victim of a car ac-
Hub 
planned to bring the dialogue 

it said ‘Thank you for being my athletes and the community cident who was just starting to to the students through events 
friend. I really appreciate ev-members whom they helped blink again, and that was prog­continued from page 1 next semester. 
erything that you’ve done.’ It this summer gained from the ress for her,” Golic said. “Ev­“One thing we have planned 
really hit home for me.” experience. ery once and a while when you “Charles Xu, an editor, put it for the spring is a symposium 
According to a University “There’s a mutuality,” Pur-think you’re having a bad day… together and it’s been the most called ‘Notre Dame Thinks 
press release, organizations cell said. “They’re building there are people out there who popular lately,” Baranay said. Big,’” he said. “In it 10 profes­
participating in the course in-the common good together by are really struggling with a “It shows posters for every-sors and people of the commu­
cluded the South Bend Center learning from each other.” lot, fighting through a lot, and thing from lectures to dorm or nity will give talks on things 
for the Homeless, the Logan Fifth-year senior David Ruffer you can draw strength from club events.” students can get involved 
Center, the Red Cross, La Casa also worked with children at those people and what they go The Hub also created a spot-with.” 
de Amistad, Healthwin and the the Center for the Homeless, through.” light for smaller publications Until spring, however, The 
Perley Primary Center. and he said the friendships he Purcell said many of the stu­on campus, as well as study Hub editors-in-chief said they 
Although open to all stu-made with the children there dent-athletes have continued abroad and service experienc-would focus on continuing to 
dents, the class was geared to-were truly genuine. their relationships with the or­es, Adam said. improve the website. 
ward student-athletes, whose “They broke down all these ganizations they worked with “I think one of the great Adam said while many peo­
schedules restrict them from barriers and saw us as people during the summer. things about making it so any-ple visit the website and read 
engaging in much community who wanted to hang out with “I know student-athletes one can write articles is that its articles, she would love to 
service during the school year, them, and as a result, they have been invited to birthday you hear about study abroad see more students contribute 
Hebbeler said. just wanted to hang out with parties, they continued volun­and service,” she said. “Peo-content. 
“One of the purposes of the us,” Ruffer said. “It’s pretty teering at particular sites, and ple can get a feel for how they Submissions of student re-
class is to give these student-rare that people just look at us they’ve gone on and brought would really fit into it.” search, experiences abroad or 
athletes the opportunity to as people as opposed to Notre friends to the sites,” Purcell One recent top pick — both in service, poetry, short stories 
experience what the major-Dame football players. It was said. “I’ve even heard from by editors and visitors — was and even informal blogs were 
ity of Notre Dame students are really refreshing that these [student-athletes’] parents … a series of articles about an in-welcome, Adam said. 
experiencing,” Hebbeler said. kids were so straight with us.” that they’ve been impacted.” ternship at the Salvation Army. “You just need a Notre Dame 
“They’re very confined by their Ruffer said his favorite expe-Hebbeler said these experi-In “Interning with the Salva-ID to contribute in a post,” she 
responsibilities as athletes.” rience was making friends with ences put the University’s mis­tion Army: the Food Pantry,” said. “We’re always looking for 
Purcell said missing out on a young boy named Eric. sion into action. Christian Moore, an editor on people with more ideas.” 
service opportunities because “Me and my buddy Eric “All the CSC courses are fo­staff for The Hub, documented A one-year birthday party 
of athletic responsibilities de-played a game where basical-cused on fulfilling the Notre his work at the internship. for The Hub will be held in the 
prives student-athletes of an ly I had to kneel whenever he Dame mission of educating Adam said Moore’s article CUSE Think Tank, found at 
important aspect of the Notre pointed his finger at me, and the heart and mind,” Hebbeler highlighted the goals of The 233 Geddes Hall, Wednesday, 
Dame experience. I was on the playground, so said, “What a great opportu-Hub — to share experiences, Oct. 26 from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
“[Service] is part of a Notre that was a lot of fun,” he said. nity for student-athletes to be open discussion and inspire The gathering will include 
Dame education,” Purcell said. “You could tell he had a lot of a part of that and be formed in others. food and casual conversation, 
The theme of the course was pent-up energy, so I was happy that way through these experi­“There’s so many people at Baranay said. 
“ethical leaders in service,” I could help him release some ences.” Notre Dame doing interest-
Purcell said, and touched on is-of it.” ing things,” she said. “But you Contact Nicole Toczauer at 
sues of race, economics, sexu-Senior Mike Golic Jr. worked Contact Tori Roeck at don’t learn about those things ntoczauer@nd.edu 
ality and ethics. at Healthwin, a specialized vroeck@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
the center annually works with about 200 children and families from Indiana and Ohio. 
The Catalyst for Change Award recognizes national, region and local honorees, a philanthropist of the year and an alumnus each year. Jen­kins, who is being recognized for his work as a University faculty member and adminis­trator, delivered the keynote address Wednesday evening. 
“The recipients are posi­tive role models for children, teens and adults dedicating their own lives to better the lives of youth, especially those at-risk,” the organization’s website stated. 
Wernle’s president and chief executive office is Dar­rell “Flash” Gordon, a mem­ber of the 1988 Irish national championship football team. According to the release, Gor­don earned a bachelor’s and master’s degree from Notre Dame in 1988 and 1989, re­spectively. 
Other recipients of the award from the Notre Dame community include alumni Regis Philbin and Nicholas Sparks, as well as former Irish football coaches Lou Holtz and Charlie Weis. 

Service offers support for Belles 


By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary’s community gathered on Library Green for a prayer service to remember all of those impacted by mental illness as a part of “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” Week on Wednesday evening. 
“The prayer service was a very moving experience,” se­nior Katie Ciresi said. 
The event was one of sev­eral during the week that was sponsored by the Stu­dent Government Asso-
Senior and chief of staff for SGA Emily Skirtich said the Week was launched because SGA wanted to address some of the major issues students face. 
“This week was piloted by SGA to respond to the needs of students of Saint Mary’s,” she said. “We wanted to highlight the resources al­ready available to students. We weren’t creating any­thing new, but playing up the services the different departments already offer.” 
In addition to the prayer service, SGA also sponsored 
ciation (SGA) to promote awareness for and assist stu­dents who may be suffering from mental illness, anxiety and depression. 
Upon arrival, participants were given a candle and in­structed to stand in a cir­cle. The service began with the song “Christ Be Our Light.” Following the 
“This week was piloted by SGA to respond to the needs of students of Saint Mary’s. We wanted to highlight the resources already availible to students. We weren’t creating anything new, but playing up the services the different departments already offer.” 
Emily Skirtich SGA chief of staff 
a variety of ac­tivities on cam­pus to spread awareness about the mis­sion of “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” Week. SGA members passed out yel­low ribbons, placed remem­brance cards in the Dining Hall, sponsored a meet and greet for students with college counselors and hosted a picnic 
opening song, scripture pas­sages and petitions were read. 
Participants were then asked to offer up their own prayers in front of the group in order to honor the mem­ory of loved ones who expe­rience mental illnesses. The service concluded with at­tendees exchanging the sign of peace. 


on Library Green on Tuesday evening. 
Sophomore and committee member Kat Sullivan said the events were chosen to make students aware of what resources are available. 
“It’s good we shed light on the services students can use, like Women’s Health, Campus Ministry and Resi­dence Life,” she said. “A lot of my friends I have talked to said this Week was very necessary at Saint Mary’s. I hope we continue this in the future.” 
Though this is the first year for “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” Week, Skirtich said she also hoped it would become a regular weeklong event at Saint Mary’s. 
“Hopefully in the next couple of years, it will be­come tradition,” she said. “We want each new group of students to understand Saint Mary’s is here for them.” 
Today’s events include a pledge signing and special breakfast at 9 a.m. Students will also have a special op­portunity to speak with Women’s Health at 5 p.m. outside the Dining Hall. 
“This is not just for cur­rent students,” Skirtich said. “It is really for all Belles — past, present and future. We want them to know they can rely on the sisterhood and heritage for help. Once a Belle, always a Belle. That is really important to remem­ber.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, October 6, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
How to be a Nerdfighter 
Hello, fellow ND students. Chances are that you, like me, are a huge nerd 
— and I mean that in the best way pos­sible. Being a nerd simply means that you are passionate about something, 
whether it’s lan­ 
guage, science, art,  Elisa DeCastro  
sports or, hey, Notre  
Dame. But are you a  Graphics  
Nerdfighter?  

First, a definition: a Nerdfighter is someone who, instead of being made of skin and bones and organs is made entirely of awesome. Nerdfighters are a kind of superhero — they use their passion to make the world a better place. The term is also used to describe the community that sprang up around the Vlogbrothers YouTube channel. 
Vlogbrothers is a video blog project started by John and Hank Green more than four years ago. It began as a year­long experiment called Brotherhood 
2.0 in which they agreed not to com­municate by textual means (e-mail, texting, etc.) and instead take turns posting videos every weekday. 
The Vlogbrothers are John and Hank Green — both nerds in their own right. Hank started the environmental technologies website EcoGeek.org, and John is the Printz Award-winning, bestselling author of young adult novels including “Looking for Alaska” and “Paper Towns.” Their videos range from songs about anglerfish, quirks and Harry Potter to philosophical in­sights into society; from tirades about the inefficiencies of pennies and front lawns to analyses of political struggles around the world. 
One of my favorite things about the Vlogbrothers, though, is how they use their internet following to benefit a wide variety of social causes. For instance, Nerdfighters have raised over $60,000 for Kiva.org, which helps people living in poverty start their own businesses. 
Sound interesting? You, too, can be a Nerdfighter in just five steps! (Steps 1 and 2 optional, but highly recom­mended.) 
1) Check out the Vlogbrothers on YouTube. They’ve collected some of their best videos (out of 880+) into playlists, and new ones go up every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. If they don’t post, they must perform a punishment of the Nerdfighters’ choos­ing, like eat a blenderized McDonalds happy meal. Those have their own playlist, if schadenfreude’s your thing. 
2) Learn the lingo. Now that you know what “Nerdfighter” means, you can incorporate it into your everyday life. Other essential phrases: “french the llama” and “DFTBA” (“Don’t forget to be awesome”). 
3) Decrease “world suck.” Get involved! Check out Kiva.org and the Project for Awesome for ideas or find service opportunities around campus. 
4) Increase awesome. Write a book, discover a new species, build a time machine — or just put stuff on your head and do a funny dance. (What? It’s fun!) Big or small, find some way to share your nerdy passions with the world. 
Congratulations! You are now a Nerdfighter. Go forth and use your powers for good. 
Oh, and don’t forget Step 5: DFTBA. 
Contact Elisa DeCastro at       edecastr@nd.edu  
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Job hunting and the call of God 
About this time each Fall, led of  favorite at all-boys high schools. But  lectures often touched on the subject of  
course by our senior class, we start  they chose a terrible year — 1993. ND  vocation. He taught us 3 simple ques­ 
feeling the press of the question:  was rolling at 10-0 through mid-No­ tions that we could ask when trying to  
“What will I do next year?” I remem­ vember. I had a stranglehold on them —  discern our vocation:  
ber having the same question before  bright yellow pants and a navy Oxford  1) What brings you joy?  
me as a senior, and  was a favorite teaching wardrobe for  2) What are you good at?  
short-circuiting the  me that fall. I even decided to bring four  3) Does the world need you to do it?  
process by quickly Fr. Lou DelFra  seniors out to the Boston College game,  The questions, of course, are de­ 
and definitively re- so they could witness ND seal the deal  ceptively simple, for they reach into  
sponding: “I’m go-Faithpoint  ... that didn’t go so well. A last second  the very center of our being, which is  
ing to law school.”  field-goal and ND was upset.  mysterious, not simple, to say the least.  
My prayer life was such that I more  I returned on Monday to find all the  You don’t usually emerge from a jour­ 
asked God to get me into a good law  computer screens in my lab set to a ma­ ney into the center of your heart with  
school than considered whether God  roon-and-gold screen-saver flashing “BC  crystalline and tidy answers, but rather,  
wanted any input on the matter.  41, ND 39.” I couldn’t get my students  more frequently, with a few wounds and  
I didn’t discuss the decision with  to come in early to do assignments, but  some more or less inchoate suspicions  
hardly anyone, so I never exposed  an upset of their teacher’s favorite team  of who you are.  
myself to what would have been my  got them leaping out of bed. But, even  One of the more helpful ways to make  
friends’ and family’s natural ques­ worse — and thanks to my beloved PLS  the journey, I have found, is to make a  
tion, “Why?” If pressed to answer, I  — I had no idea how to turn the screen  couple of wrong vocational decisions —  
probably would have responded that  savers off!  very few of which, by the way, are ever  
law was what my dad had done, that it  This led to an interesting conversa­ irreversible. These “wrong turns” can  
seemed to reward certain intellectual  tion with the school principal, who  shake us out of a slumber and force us  
and analytical skills I possessed with  in December wondered why I hadn’t  to ask, “What is my heart’s deepest de­ 
a nice salary and that perhaps I could  turned off that agonizing score. Feel- sire?” Though a little uncomfortable at  
do some good for others. All were  ing I just might have the job security to  the time, these times of questioning my  
probably true, yet I suspect now that  get away with it (I was also coaching 3  heart’s desire have led me to the great- 
what an honest answer to their ques­ sports, moderating the philosophy club,  est joys in my life — my vocation as a  
tions would have helpfully revealed  and organizing the school masses —  Catholic school teacher and, ultimately,  
was my halfheartedness.  they couldn’t fire me, right?), I decided  Holy Cross and the priesthood.  
My time in law school was both  to come clean on my computer back- Our heart’s deepest desire, in the  
miserable and, gratefully, short-lived.  ground. I was teaching English and  end, coincides with God’s desire for our  
Neither my heart nor my soul was into  Theology by the next semester. Thank  lives and the life of the Church and the  
it. I was going through the motions.  you, Boston College.  world. That’s a lot of powerful lines  
I left law school and returned home  Teaching classes that I actually knew  converging in one human heart. It is not  
— of course, with no back-up plan.  something about only fanned the flame  a journey that unfolds tidily, beginning  
A friend told me that the computer  of passion for teaching. Becoming a  to end, during college. The decisions we  
teacher at the local Catholic high  Catholic school teacher had focused so  make now do not bear the burden of de­ 
school was going on leave. PLS was  many different passions in my life — the  termining the rest of our lives. Rather,  
such a perfect preparation for teach- intellectual life, service, athletics — and  they are a step into a job, or a vocation,  
ing computers that I thought, “Why  added one unexpected deep joy: the  and — perhaps most importantly for  
not?” Somehow, I got the job, and two  invitation to help form, mentally and  now — the realization of the difference  
weeks later … my heart was on fire.  spiritually, the next generation of stu­ between the two.  
The students, bequeathed like a  dents. It was a rare day that I was not  
gift from God with a rookie teacher  at school late into the evening, coaching  Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is the Director of  
mid-semester, prepared their assault,  or grading, but an even rarer day that I  Pastoral Life for ACE and  a member of  
which was pleasantly inferior. They  thought I was in the wrong place. This,  Campus Ministry.  He can be reached at  
foolishly decided as a main strategy  I suspect, is the power of discovering a  delfra.2@nd.edu  
to attack my hardly concealed support  vocation, instead of a job.  The views expressed in this column are  
for Notre Dame football — teacher- A favorite teacher of mine at Notre  those of the author and not necessarily that  
student sports rivalries were a huge  Dame was Fr. Michael Himes, whose  of The Observer.  

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Be a yardstick of quality. Some people aren’t used to an environment where excellence is expected.” 
Steve Jobs 
U.S. computer engineer & industrialist 


WEEKLY POLL 
Hip-hop night at Legends is... 
The best part of my weekend A waste of time Great for people-watching Where I display my killer moves 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Syria and Libya aren’t the same, but Assad will fall 
Mohammad Deeb al-Hosni was a Syrian activist who gave everything for freedom in his homeland. In order to intimidate Mohammed into turning himself in, the Assad regime abducted his sister, Zainab. Shortly thereafter, the Syrian security Kenan Rahmani found Mohammad, and after they tor-Guest Columnist tured and killed him, his family was in­formed to retrieve his body. They were also instructed to retrieve his dead sis­ter from the morgue. The young woman they found there was unrecognizable; she had burns across her body, and her arms and head were cut off.  It was a message to all Syrians: don’t dare oppose the Assad regime. Over 30,000 Syrians have been detained and face similar fates. Over 5,300 have already been confirmed dead by Avaaz, an in­dependent human rights organization. 
Some followers of the Arab Spring, among them a fellow Domer, William Miller, have recently concluded that the Syrian tyrant Bashar al-Assad will suc­cessfully suppress the Syrian popular revolution, now entering its 7th month, mostly because NATO will not inter­vene as it did in Libya. All of the facts of Mr. Miller’s analysis are absolutely true: (a) The international community is less likely to intervene militarily; (b) Assad’s military is much stronger than Qaddafi’s; and (c) Syria’s geography will not lend itself to a centralized opposi­tion. Despite these factors, the Syrian people will successfully oust a dictato­rial regime that has detained, tortured and killed its own citizens for 40 years. 
Full disclosure: I am Syrian, and am extremely invested in the outcome of an Assad-free, democratic Syria. But I’m not arguing that Syrians will prevail because it is a great idealistic reprise of David and Goliath, nor because I am Syrian, but because the Assad regime can’t sustain its military crackdown forever. A recent scientific poll from the Pepperdine School of Public Policy found that 82 percent of Syrians want regime change, a percentage that is growing as the regime becomes more barbaric. In terms of actual partici­pants in the revolution (between 30 and 40 percent of the able-bodied popula­tion), it is the largest in history. Assad can’t win: his strategy for suppressing the protests with unforgiving force and brutality foments exponentially more anti-government protests. Here’s the bottom line: Syrians will fight until the very end and Assad’s cronies will not. 
Although Russia and China vetoed a UN resolution condemning Assad’s re­gime just Tuesday, there are signs that international consensus will eventually come to fruition. Russia and China, the main obstacles to international action in Syria, have been waiting for 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Contraception and conscience 
We, officers of Notre Dame’s Right to Life, would like to respond to Gary Caruso’s viewpoint (Sept 30). 
Mr. Caruso condemns Fr. Jenkins’ letter to HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebilius, asking that the definition of “religious employer” in the new health care mandate be broadened to “en­sure conscience protections” that will allow Notre Dame to continue its work as a Catholic university. The mandate “would compel Notre Dame to either pay for contraception and steriliza­tion in violation of the Church’s moral teaching or to discontinue our employ­ee and student health care plans.” 
Fr. Jenkins correctly denounces the claim that a Catholic university should offer contraceptive or sterilization ser­vices. As the Catechism states, “‘Every action … to render procreation impos­sible’ is intrinsically evil” (2370). 
Such “preventative services” as health care equate pregnancy with disease or sickness. By this reasoning, the unborn become the result of failed medication. In sharp contrast, unborn children are the natural fruits of the sexual act. As such, any separation of the sexual act from procreation is con­trary to human nature. 
As a Catholic university, we do not impose Catholicism on our students, but we ask that they respect the religious teachings of the Church that inform the mission of the University that they have freely chosen to enter into. 
Forcing Notre Dame to offer contra­ceptive services to students and staff is a violation of the religious freedom of the University and of the conscience that informs it. This mandate would force Notre Dame to either abandon its conscience, cease providing health insurance or refuse entrance and em­ployment to those who disagree with the Church’s teachings. 
We would like to praise Fr. Jenkins’ many continued efforts to promote the dignity of the human person, and we especially commend his letter to Secretary Sebelius. As violations of human nature, contraceptive services are contrary to what is just, and forc­ing Notre Dame to offer such services is unjust. 
In the words of Martin Luther King, Jr, “An unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural law,” and “an unjust law is no law at all.” 
Christopher Damian 
Information Commissioner Notre Dame Right to Life Oct. 5 
Samantha Stempky 
President Notre Dame Right To Life Oct. 5 
Andrew Lynch 
Vice President Notre Dame Right To Life Oct. 5 


an organized opposition council that can secure their economic interests in an Assad-less Syria, and fortunately Syria’s opposition is now clearly orga­nized under the Syrian National Coun­cil (SNC). No country is truly invested in the current regime except for Iran and Lebanon, and even they are hedg­ing their bets to make sure they don’t end up on the wrong side of history. No intelligent nation can trust its interests with a regime that will betray its own people and agents in a pinch. 
In the meantime, the Assad govern­ment is being choked by strict sanc­tions and an increasingly unaffordable military operation against its people. It is losing hundreds from its loyalist military to the opposition and having serious trouble finding buyers for its light crude, which finances 30 percent of its domestic operations. In response to growing discontent from a feared business class, the Assad regime franti­cally reversed a week-old imports ban, which it had enacted to save its cur­rency. These are all serious threats to the Assad regime, whose desperation is evident by the escalation of force, using airplanes to bomb civilian homes where the regime suspects defectors are hiding. 
The Syrian issue isn’t going away anytime soon. You’ll see it in the US presidential debates, you’ll see the White House pressuring the Krem­lin, you’ll see China negotiating trade agreements with the opposition Syrian National Council and you’ll unfortu­nately see more horrific acts of inhu­manity. And though an armed struggle à la Libya isn’t the desired outcome, Syrians will go to any measure to re­move the Assad dictatorship. 
It turns out that decapitated young woman wasn’t even Zainab. It was just the latest of many lies from Assad’s criminal regime. Still, it doesn’t change the facts: She could have been a sopho­more at Notre Dame ... and now she’s dead. Let’s pray for her, for Syria and for peace and justice. And mark my words — by next year, Assad will be just like Qaddafi, another brutal dicta­tor overthrown by brave people. 
Kenan Rahmani is the U.S. representative to the Syrian Activist Network, an international network of activists working to end the brutal dictatorship of Bashar al-Assad and to transition to a free, democratic nation. He is also the National Communications Coordinator of the Syrian American Council, the largest Syrian American group. He is a 1L at Notre Dame Law School pursuing International Law. 
Contact Kenan Rahmani at kenanrahmani@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

Bring “Irish mint” fro-yo back to NDH! 
Dear NDH, 

Over the years, I have continued to come to your establishment for food. I would like to commend you that your food in general is very good and extremely convenient, and for that you have my deepest thanks! 
However, I do have one complaint: the Irish mint fro-yo machine is broken, and has been broken for weeks! Irish mint fro-yo is quite possibly one of the best things to happen to dessert since somebody invented cake. I really like to get it and add chocolate chips and Reese’s cups for a cool treat, and it just isn’t the same with chocolate or vanilla fro-yo. 
Also, from what people have told me, Irish mint is a favorite flavor of many people here — it even has “Irish” in its name! So please fix the Irish mint fro-yo machine. For that, many people, including me, will be very thankful. 
Kevin Eller 
senior Stanford Hall Oct. 5 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, October 6, 2011 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It’s really true. It doesn’t mat­ter what degree you graduate from Notre Dame with, be it Engineering, Arts and Letters, or Architecture, you really can do anything you want. David Michael Belczyk, a 2003 gradu­ate with a degree in Mechanical Engineering and author of two collections of poetry and one work of fiction, is living proof. 
Belczyk returns to campus this weekend to promote his lat­est work, “Elynia,” his fiction piece, with a book signing at the bookstore. In his words, “Elyn­ia” is about a storm. 
“One thing the book does is cover four generations of characters who are intercon­nected in an unusual way,” Belczyk said. “And each one of the chapters is a very intimate look at one of their particular struggles. And along with that perspective on struggle, there is also a perspective on storms, on a particular storm that kind of metaphorically rages through­out the book.” 
The four generations of char­acters and their lives unfold in “Elynia” through glimpses at moments in each of their lives. Characters include an immi­grant shoe-man who works away his life in a dying town, witnessing his son wrongly ar­rested by a man whose shoes he regularly shines. The son watches his friend betray the memory of a departed mother by stealing her now-sacred makeup for a drunken joke. The friend then marries a waitress who secretly loves another man who is perpetually stuck aton­ing for his past by meticulously refurbishing a house. Each sto­ry strikes a chord in its dissec­tion of suffering and intimate look at human emotion. 
The interconnectedness of the characters helps to bring special definition and power to this work. Many of the chapters are close examinations of inti­mate, singular events in a char­acter’s life, but tied together, they achieve new interpretive depth. Belczyk, with his strong, lyrical writing style, allows his readers to delve into the lives of his characters and really expe­rience what they experience. 
This approach to writing em­phasizes an important aspect of Belczyk’s work. “Elynia” not only deals with suffering and turmoil but also unity. As you read the book, you realize the connections the characters all have to each other and how the actions of each affect the oth­ers. And this, Belczyk believes, is an important aspect of the book. 
“You learn how the charac­ters are related and how their lives change relative to one an­other, [but] you also understand how the way that they endure their trials,” he said. “[This] is kind of like the endurance of the storm, and the endurance of life and the ravages of life. 
“Even though the book is pre­occupied with the disillusion­ment of their lives, the message is really one of hope. Out of that endurance there comes commu­nion of all these people, and the unity that transcends the barri­ers of life and time … and there is a beauty that underlies their endurance and transforms life’s struggles.” 
“Elynia” captures this idea of hope and beauty, with images at both ends of the book highlight­ing these ideals. The images are similar, involving the same characters, a young boy and his grandmother. At the book’s opening, the two are search­ing a cemetery for graves, but the young boy doesn’t actually know what graves for which he is looking. The book ends with a scene on a porch, where the boy and his grandmother, both cold, huddle together watching the rain, waiting to see if a rainbow will appear.  
This last scene encapsulates the idea of hope within suf­fering. These two characters, earlier that same day, had wandered through a graveyard searching for the graves of fam­ily members, and at the end of the day they are still cold and waiting out a rainstorm. But they look for the rainbow. They hope beauty and goodness will emerge from their despair. 
Belczyk said he is excited to return to Notre Dame to pro­mote his book and sign copies for fans. Not only is he thrilled to receive exposure, but also to return to the place that helped inspire the work. While the project has been a few years in the making, the original idea came from Belczyk’s experienc­es with storms on campus and with friends. He saw themes developing from his ideas about people out in storms and want­ed to unite them into something larger. 
In his writings, Belczyk draws influence from writers like Wil­liam Faulkner, Gabriel Garcia Marquez and e.e. cummings. He said he especially loves Mar­quez because “You just feel like you’re seeing the same things through different eyes.” 
“You realize the world is a lot more vibrant in places you didn’t know,” he said. “That’s something I always try and put in my writing. I’m always try­ing to take relatively ordinary things and turn them into al­legories so that even the mun­dane things of life have a sec­ondary identity.” 
Mundane objects do gain new identity and life in “Elynia.” Bel­czyk’s approach to writing in a poetic, lyrical manner allows images to arise from the pages of the work and bring life to the story. The sun lighting up, warming a flowing river takes on new meaning, a new person­ality beyond that which we have experienced. And then Belczyk applies this approach to all oth­er objects and people. 
To students who want to break into the writing busi­ness, Belczyk had a few pieces of advice. One, he wanted to remind writers to just be them­selves because you can only be who you are, and you need to be interested in who you are.  But also, he was worried about the state of modern poetry. 
“I think that modern poetry is in danger because everybody thinks they have to go to school for it,” Belczyk worried. “And I think that what the art needs is a whole lot of people who are out there living life and are in the fray and are going to talk about the fray.” 
So, to non-English majors, to non-Arts and Letters majors, try your hand at something new. It might surprise you. And don’t forget to discover the beauty of struggle in “Elynia.” 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: “Elynia” book 
signing 
Where: Saturday, Oct. 8, 
9:30 to 11:30 a.m. 
When: Hammes Bookstore 
How Much: Free 


LAURA LAWS | Observer Graphics 


Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Gentleman Hall LaFortune Ballroom 
8:30 p.m. Free 
Head to the LaFortune Ball­room tonight to hear up-and­coming band Gentleman Hall play a concert featuring songs from their new EP “When We All Disappear.” The band re­cently won MTV’s “Best Break­out Boston Artist” award and even has a Ben & Jerry’s ice cream flavor in their honor. 
“The Secret in the Wings” 
7:30 p.m. Decio Mainstage at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center $7 for students 
These classical stories are presented in a very unconventional way  and feature fantastic designs and costumes to accent the bizarrely wonderful narrative. The play will show at 7:30 p.m. Thursday and Friday and 2:30 
p.m. on Sunday. 

“Transformers 3: Dark of the Moon” DeBartolo 101 8 and 10 p.m. $3 
One of the summer’s big blockbusters comes to Notre Dame this weekend. Shia LeBeouf joins the Autobots to fend of another plan to destroy the world by the Decepticons. “Transformers 3” promises big spectacles to amp up your weekend. 
Fleur de Lys Reyes Organ and Choral Hall 
1:30 and 5:30 p.m. $5 for students 
The Department of Mu­sic presents a program of music that spans the cultures of Europe by Fleur de Lys. The ensemble, which features violin, wooden flutes, violas, harpsichord and vocals, will focus on Baroque chamber music of France, Italy and Germany. 


LAURA LAWS | Observer Graphics 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 6, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
NBA negotiations not following NFL’s lead 
Heading into week 5 in the NFL, signs of a heated debate between owners and players are hard to find. Attendance remains at record levels, players and owners are still mak­ing money hand -over ­fist and ESPN, NBC, CBS and FOX have all retai ned television rights. 
Fans are even enjoyi ng the inte­gration of the West Coast offense into every offensive coordina­tor’s game plan, as passing yards and touchdowns have reached record highs. 
I’ll give credit where cred­it is due. NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, NFL Play­ers Association executive director DeMaurice Smith, players and owners came together against all odds to reach a compromise (not un­like the Founding Fathers, less the powdered wigs). Both sides made concessions in the name of football and excessive salaries, but they ultimately reached an agree­ment that prevented the loss of any games. 
The NBA could take a hint. 
NBA Commissioner David Stern and the National Bas­ketball Players Association once again met Tuesday, un­successfully, leading Stern to cancel the remainder of the preseason and effectively putting the likelihood of the 2011-2012 season’s existence in serious flux. 
The two parties have yet to schedule a follow-up meet­ing, which could take as long as three to four weeks to happen, and Stern has threatened cancelling the first two weeks of the regu­lar season. That means mil­lions of lost profits for play­ers and owners starting on Nov. 2, the expected start of the season. 
Not to be forgotten are the hundreds of thousands of workers employed by the NBA’s 30 teams, who depend on 41 home games as their primary source of income. It’s not that easy to leave the country to sign with a Eu-ropean-league team just to scan tickets. 
Stern may be the most in­effective of the Big Four 

Chris Masoud 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Commissioners. No nonsense Goodell is the clear com­missioner leader, followed closely by the NHL’s Gary Bettman. Until Bud Selig re­moves the rights to home-field advantage from the All-Star game, he’ll always be near the bottom. 
But Stern may just take the cake if the NBA loses a full season. Players have already signed deals abroad. Kobe Bryant is getting ready to 
ink a one-month, $3 mil­
lion deal to play in Italy. 
The preseason is gone, and 
a Laker (Derek Fisher) has 
been chosen to represent 
the players’ interests. 
As expected, the divide 
between the two sides comes down to economics. Players have agreed to lower their demands of total bas-ketball-related income (BRI) to 52.4 percent, while own­ers have raised their offer to 47 percent. The league sug­gests a 50-50 split. 
Considering the 2011 BRI of $3.8 billion, that 5.4 per­cent split comes down to about $205.2 million, money that neither party is willing to concede. Moreover, play­ers are unwilling to play un­der a system that restricts their ability to shop their talents in free agency. 
Even more depressing than players not getting their “fair” cut, some teams that lost money last season are better off without a season at all. Small-market teams have expressed their dis­satisfaction with the free agency summer of 2010 and the predictability of last sea­son, and many owners have expressed a desire not to re­turn to the current system. 
So don’t expect this lock­out to end as smoothly as the NFL’s. The two sides are too far apart and lack the talent of negotiators like Goodell and Smith. 
As fans, we have little con­trol over the negotiations, but we do have options. The NHL season is around the corner, the NFL and college football keep us busy on the weekends and college hoops are in sight. 
In the meantime, welcome to the NBA, “Where Caring Happens.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
MLB 

Cards force Game 5 against Phils 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS  — Big swings by a slumping hitter, clutch innings by a journeyman pitcher. Suddenly, the St. Louis Cardinals are looking very dangerous. 
As for the Philadelphia Phillies? Things have turned downright squirrelly. 
David Freese, shut down by Phillies aces the first three games, became a hometown star Wednes­day night. He homered, doubled and drove in four runs as the Cardinals defeated nemesis Roy Oswalt and forced a deciding fifth game in their NL playoff series by beating the favored Phillies 5-3. 
“This is what you worked for,” said Freese, a local prep star who came to the Cardinals in a trade for Jim Edmonds after the 2007 season. “Just to do this in front of the fans of St. Louis and a bunch of friends and family, it’s amazing.” 
Center fielder Jon Jay made a sliding catch on Placido Polanco’s soft fly for the final out, and was already pointing his index finger before he got to his feet. 
“We’re not looking at this like we’re just happy to be here and it’s David and Goliath,” Cardinals slugger Lance Berkman said. 
Now it’s back to Philadelphia for Game 5 on Friday night. Roy Halladay, who won the opener for the Phillies, will face St. Louis ace Chris Carpenter — they played to­gether in Toronto for five years. 
“They’re good friends and old teammates, and Carp was really chomping at the bit for this oppor­tunity to pitch against Roy on full rest in a huge Game 5,” Cardinals outfielder Matt Holliday said. “It should be quite a battle and then it’ll be fun to watch two great com­petitors go head to head and two great teams get after it.” 
Phillies manager Charlie Manu­el agreed. 
“Might be fitting that it goes down to the fifth game,” he said. “It’s up to us to go get it. It’s sitting right there for us. We’ve got our ace going, and we’re at home, and so everything is sitting right there.” 
The 102-win Phillies were picked by many to win it all. But first they must dispose of the wild­card Cardinals, who clinched a playoff spot on the last day of the season and have gotten the best of two members of the Phils’ star-studded rotation. 
An omen, maybe: Right after Oswalt threw a pitch in the fifth, a squirrel darted across the plate. 
Oswalt argued, unsuccessfully, that the creature’s dash had dis­tracted him on a pitch called a ball. 
“I didn’t want to stop in the mid­dle of my motion, so I threw it,” Os­walt said. “I was wondering what size of animal it needed to be for it not to be a pitch.” 
Manuel argued, to no avail. 

“Of course, being from the South and being a squirrel hunter, if I had a gun there, might have did something,” Manuel said. “I’m a pretty good shot.” 
Albert Pujols was hitless in four at-bats in what could have been his final home game with the Car­dinals. He received thunderous cheers every trip to the plate from a standing room crowd of 47,071, second-largest at 6-year-old Busch Stadium. 
Pujols made his presence known on defense, catching Chase Utley going for an extra base in the sixth. Utley drew a leadoff walk and kept running on Hunter Pence’s grounder to short, but Pu­jols alertly jumped off first base to catch the throw and made a sharp relay to third for the out. 
“This is obviously the playoffs, but that’s a play I can make in the regular season, too,” Pujols said. “If I would have stayed on the bag, it was going to be tough to get the runner at third. Obviously, that killed the rally right there.” 
Edwin Jackson recovered from a rocky beginning to win his first playoff start. After giving up two runs on his first five pitches, he wound up throwing six solid in­nings. Jason Motte worked a per­fect ninth for his second save of the series. 
Phillies cleanup hitter Ryan Howard, like Freese a St. Louis product, was 0 for 4 with three strikeouts. He is 0 for 8 the last two games with five strikeouts and has hit only one ball out of the infield. 
“I think I’ve been a little bit anx­ious trying to go up and trying to make things happen instead of let­ting things happen,” Howard said. “Right now I’m just kind of jump­ing, so just try to recognize pitches better.” 
Oswalt had been 5-0 with a 3.25 ERA in 10 previous postseason starts, the biggest closing out old Busch Stadium and the Cardinals in 2005 to get Houston to its first World Series. The right-hander also worked seven shutout innings against St. Louis in the Phillies’ NL East division clincher in mid-Sep­tember. 

“It’s good to get some early runs, for sure,” Oswalt said. “I felt pretty comfortable after that. Just two bad pitches.” 
The biggest jolts for the Car­dinals came from their seventh-place hitter. Freese was 2 for 12 the first three games with one RBI before punishing the fourth of the Phillies’ aces. 
Freese’s two-run double down the third-base line in the fourth put St. Louis up 3-2. His two-run homer to straightaway center in the sixth whipped the crowd into a towel-waving frenzy. 
Oswalt walked Berkman and hit Holliday, making his first start of the series, to start the fourth. Pence made a fine running catch on the right field warning track to rob Yadier Molina of extra bases, but Freese jumped on a hanging curveball with a drive down the left-field line. 
Holliday singled with one out in the sixth and Freese hit a 1-0 pitch to the pasture in straightaway cen­ter, not far from where a squirrel made an early appearance, for a three-run cushion. A squirrel also interrupted play in the fifth, racing across the plate an instant after Oswalt’s pitch to Skip Schumaker passed for a ball. 
Oswalt argued with plate um­pire Angel Hernandez, asking for no pitch. On the next, Schumaker flied out. 
In Game 3 Tuesday, a squirrel was seen scampering in foul terri­tory along the third base line. 
Five pitches into the game, the Phillies had a 2-0 lead with an as­sist from the late-afternoon play­ing conditions. 
Jay, standing in bright sunshine while shadows, took one step in on leadoff man Jimmy Rollins’ drive on the first pitch of the game and retreated too late for a ball just over his glove that bounced over the wall for a ground-rule double. 
Utley tripled just inside the first-base line three pitches later and Pence lined an RBI single on the next pitch. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? In the town where I was born, We all live in yellow submarine, (Full speed ahead, Mr. Barkley, full We all live in yellow submarine, 
Lived a man who sailed to sea, yellow submarine, yellow speed ahead! yellow submarine, yellow Don’t go it alone.  And he told us of his life, submarine. |Full speed over here, sir! submarine, Notre Dame has many resources In the land of submarines, All together! All together! We all live in yellow submarine, in place to assist you. If you And our friends are all aboard, Aye, aye, sir, fire! yellow submarine, yellow 
HAPPY  or someone you love needs So we sailed on to the sun, Many more of them live next door, Captain! Captain!) submarine. confidential support or assistance, Till we found the sea green, And the band begins to play.           21st please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 And we lived beneath the waves, As we live a life of ease(life of ease) We all live in yellow submarine, or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  In our yellow submarine, We all live in yellow submarine, Every one of us(every one of us) yellow submarine, yellow                     BIRTHDAY yellow submarine, yellow has all we need,(has all we need) submarine, For more information, visit We all live in yellow submarine, submarine, Sky of blue,(sky of blue) and sea We all live in yellow submarine,                               ERIK! ND’s website at: http:// yellow submarine, yellow We all live in yellow submarine, green,(sea of green) yellow submarine, yellow pregnancysupport@nd.edu submarine, yellow submarine, yellow In our yellow(In our yellow) submarine. submarine. submarine.(submarine) ( Haha! ) 
Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles hungry for revenge over rival 


By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Since 2006, Hope has won all eight of its matches against Saint Mary’s, five of which have been decided by one goal. 
However, tonight’s game between the conference foes carries added significance for the Belles as the team looks to even its MIAA record at 4-4 and remain within reach of a conference playoff spot. 
“If we want to stay in the hunt for a top-four finish to make the playoffs, [this] is a very important game for us,” Belles coach Mike Joyce said. “[If we slip to] 3-5 through the first eight conference games, we’ve left ourselves a lot of work to do.” 
Winning tonight’s match will prove to be a test of en­durance for both squads as they play the second of three games in five days. 
The Belles kicked off the stretch with a 2-1 road win over Trine on Tuesday, led by goals from senior Katelyn Tondo-Steele and junior Ash­ley Morfin. 
“Starting off with a win helps a tough week of games,” Belles’ coach Michael Joyce said. “Most teams in the con­ference have the same setup so I suppose it evens out for the most part.” 
Hope is expected to of­fer more of a challenge than Trine, which has only has one win in MIAA play. 
The Flying Dutchmen de­feated Calvin 3-2 Tuesday, despite being outshot 17-10. Junior goalkeeper Megan Alt­ieri saved seven shots on goal and has saved 73 percent of shots attempted on the sea­son. 
“Hope is good this year and is regionally ranked,” Joyce said. “We played very well against them last year and I think we match up well against them.” 
The Belles will also have to contain the Flying Dutch­men’s scoring tandem of se­nior defender Danielle Petzak and freshman forward Nora Kirk. Petzak leads the squad with five goals on the season and has added two assists, while Kirk is second on the team with four goals, includ­ing two in the Calvin game. 
Following Thursday’s match against Hope, the Belles re­turn to Michigan on Saturday to face Olivet at noon today at 7 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, October 6, 2011 
a lot of pressure,” Clark said. 
Draw 
“After they got the goal back, 
we took over the game again. continued from page 16 It would have been nice if we 
had gotten our second goal were on getting the ball to-before they tied it up, but it ward the net, the Irish raked wasn’t to be.” in the only one that mattered Aside from their second and went into half burst the half with of offen­a 1-0 advan-sive power, 
“I thought that the 
tage. Northwest ­
defenders handled their 
With just 12 ern’s uncon­
aerial game very well. 
minutes left ventional in regulation, Aaron [Maund] and style of play Wildcats se-Grant [Van de Casteele] was another nior forward were superb in that challenge for Oliver Kupe department, just handling the Irish. sent the ty-every time they played.” “They set 
ing point past out play-Notre Dame’s ing a 4-1-4-1 
Bobby Clark 
senior goal-formation,” 
Irish coach 
keeper, Will Clark said. Walsh. Walsh “They had a played the sweeper in entire 120 the midfield. minutes for the Irish and had It made it quite difficult for two saves. us. It took a while for us to 


Clark noticed increased of-sort that out, but once we did, fensive determination from more gaps appeared, and we the Wildcats leading up to got more chances.” Northwestern’s equalizing On the defensive side of the goal. game, Clark credits both de-play. Casteele] were superb in that to resume their in-conference 
“There was a period in the fenders, senior Aaron Maund “I thought that the de-department, just handling ev-play. second half where they were and junior Grant Van De fenders handled their aer-ery time they played. fighting to get their goal back Casteele as crucial for North-ial game very well,” Clark The Irish will play No. 1 Contact Molly Sammon at where they obviously applied western’s particular style of said. “[Maund] and [Van De Connecticut at home Saturday msammon@nd.edu 
Rydberg 
continued from page 16 
perienced thus far this year, it has not been an easy road for Rydberg. She missed all of last season due to an injury to her lower back. 
“It was a result of my body not being able to handle the mileage I was running,” Rydberg said. “It was disappointing not to be able to race. It was heartbreak­ing to watch my team work out and race and not be able to be with them, doing what I love.” 
In spite of not being able to participate in races, Rydberg said she made her presence known in other ways. 
“I did my best to encourage the other girls and support them as best I could,” she said. 
Now that she’s healthy, Ryd­berg is continuing to support her team but has also taken on a greater role. Along with winning the National Catholic Championship and placing sec­ond in the Crusader Invitation­al, Rydberg led the Irish in the 56th annual Notre Dame Invita­tional, placing 25th out of 225 runners. It was the third con­secutive meet she had set the pace for her squad. In a team setting, Rydberg says she’s try­ing to lead by example. 
“I would like to think that I’m a good example of hard work and dedication, and that I am able to provide advice to the younger girls,” she said. 
If Rydberg continues to stay healthy and run well, she should have no trouble reach­ing the goals she set for herself this season. 
“One of my primary goals is to stay healthy, mentally and physically,” she said. “It’s dif­ficult to race year-round and burnout is pretty common, so I want to avoid that. I think it’s possible for me to be an All-American in cross country, so that is my ultimate goal for this season. In the shorter term, I’m working hard to be the best leader for our team so that we can all perform to our highest potential.” 
Rydberg and the Irish will next race in the Wisconsin Invi­tational on Oct. 14. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 



Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Senior Kristy Frilling prepares to return a ball against Baylor Feb. 
6. Frilling competes this week in the All-American championship. 
Frilling 
continued from page 16 
for the main draw. She will be back in action once more in doubles play with Frilling today. 
“It’s a tough loss, but I am happy with the way I com­peted and struck the ball,” Mathews said. “I had my chances in the first set as well as the final set, but I needed better execution of my attacking game.” 
Frilling will begin playing Thursday in the main draw, where she will face Sona Novakova of Baylor. 
“It will be a good match so I’m really looking forward to it,” Frilling said. 
This will be the first time Frilling takes the court this season and she said she is ready to see where her game is at beginning the new sea­son. 
“I’m also really excited to play my first tournament of the fall and hopefully start the season on a positive note,” she said. 
Mathews and Frilling will begin in the fourth spot of the round of 32. They will face a competitor from one of the earlier rounds of com­petition. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
Changes 
continued from page 16 
tion with Hockey East sets the platform for us to do that with hockey the way we have been able to do it with foot­ball in the past,” Swarbrick said. 
Notre Dame will once again partner with NBC, but this time, to broadcast hock­ey games. 
“Our relationship with Notre Dame is one of our most important partnerships,” President of Program­ming for NBC Sports 
and Versus work to do in 
“We look forward to 
Jon Miller the CCHA.” 
a very bright future 
said. “The Hockey
with a conference we 
opportunity East, with 
have great admiration 
to broad-the addition 
for that has its core in 
cast Notre of Jackson 
Dame hock-a part of the country and Notre ey games where we have great Dame, now as well as strength and passion.” houses five Hockey East of the top-10 games was winningest 
Jack Swarbrick 
very exciting coaches in 
Director of Athletics 
for us as we rebrand the NBC Sports Network. We’re excited about what the future holds.” 
Details of the deal have not been finalized although tele­vising all of Notre Dame’s home games is a possibility. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson believes that the move to Hockey East — along with the scheduling flexibility and the new television deal 
— will help Notre Dame re­cruit on a more national ba­sis. 
“We’ll probably be going east five times and probably west five times,” Jackson said. “I think it will create a more national schedule for us and potentially open up new recruiting opportuni­ties.” 
The Hockey East confer­ence schedule is smaller and allows the Irish to play more non-conference games against traditional rivals Michigan, Michigan State and, potentially, Minnesota. 
The Irish leave behind a lasting legacy in the CCHA, winning two regular-season and postseason tournament titles (2007 and 2009) during their 13 years in the confer­ence. Jackson has spent his entire collegiate coaching career in the CCHA and said it is sad to see it disband. 
“It will be very disappoint­ing for me, as a lifetime member of the CCHA, to see it no longer existing,” Jack­son said. “It’s a disappoint­ment but we still have 
collegiate 
hockey. Bos­
ton College’s 
Jerry York, 
Boston Uni­versity’s Jack Parker, New Hampshire’s Dick Umile and UMass’ Don Cahoon all rank ahead of Jackson in the wins list. 
“We look forward to a very bright future with a confer­ence we have great admira­tion for that has its core in a part of the country where we have great strength and pas­sion,” Swarbrick said. “We hope we bring to Hockey East as much as we know it will bring to us.” 
The Irish open their season on the road against Minneso­ta-Duluth, the defending na­tional champions, on Friday at 8:07 p.m. The two will also play Saturday at 8:07 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, October 6, 2011 
PGA 
New caddy wants focus on Tiger’s game 

Associated Press 
SAN MARTIN, Calif. — Tiger Woods offered Joe LaCava the job as his caddie, and it wasn’t a difficult decision for him. 
“Why? Because he’s Tiger Woods,” LaCava said Wednes­day, offering very little by way of elaboration. “Enough said. It’s a no-brainer, isn’t it? That’s my thought. It’s Tiger Woods.” 
LaCava is among the top cad­dies on the PGA Tour, having spent most of his 25 years with Fred Couples, a former Masters champion and No. 1 player in the world who was the biggest draw during the peak of his career. 
So big crowds will be nothing new for LaCava. 
He just never imagined work­ing for three players this year, the last one Woods. 
Couples was playing less and urged LaCava to work for Dustin Johnson, regarded as the top young American talent. Johnson, who already has five wins and played in the final group at three majors, was runner-up at the British Open and won The Bar­clays. By then, however, Woods had fired Steve Williams and was looking for a replacement. 
LaCava told him he was inter­ested. 
“When you say was it a hard decision, it was hard in the fact Dustin was great to me,” LaCava said after his first official day of work for Woods. “Was it hard to tell him I was leaving to go to work for Tiger? Yes. Was it hard to go to work for Tiger? No.” 
But the timing made some people question the move. 
Johnson already has proven to be a cash machine, with more than $12 million in earnings af­ter four years on the tour, and headed for another top-10 finish on the money list. 
Woods is winless over the last two years, and has managed to play a full schedule only once in the last four years because of injuries or chaos in his personal life. 
LaCava was asked if he was betting that Woods still had great golf ahead of him. This brought a smile of confidence. 
“Of course, no question,” LaCa­va said. “I know he does. I’m not betting on it.” 
LaCava has been around Woods often over the last 15 years, starting with practice rounds that Woods played with Couples at the Masters and U.S. Open as an amateur. LaCava was prepared to work for Woods at the 2005 Presidents Cup when Williams went home to New Zealand for the birth of his son. Couples, however, made the U.S. team and Woods hired Billy Fos­ter for the week. 
LaCava broke the news to Johnson after the Tour Champi­onship, then came out to Corde-Valle for a tournament that was never on his schedule. For Woods, the Frys.com Open is his first tournament in seven weeks, and his last PGA Tour appear­ance this year. 
There will be some adjust­ments, as always, but not that many. 
“He’s trying to envision how far I hit the golf ball and what I would like to hear for certain numbers through bunkers or carries,” Woods said. “So he kind of got all that. And he basically said, ‘OK, just let me know what you want on each hole.’ And that’s how we kind of did it. So he got a feel for what I liked, or would like to think or see, and he’s got a good understanding of it.” 
Woods is longer off the tee than Couples, shorter than John­son. 
Then again, caddies go through these adjustments all the time. Jon Yarbrough, for ex­ample, went from caddying for Morgan Pressel on the LPGA Tour to working for Gary Wood­land on the PGA Tour (with one stop in between). 
The attention around Woods will not be that much different for LaCava, either. 
“Back in the day, Fred had the biggest crowd,” LaCava said. “Obviously, it’s bigger today be­cause golf is bigger. But back in the day, Fred had just as big a crowd in relation to how many people were out there.” 
Woods’ pro-am group had some 300 people at CordeValle. No other group had more than a dozen. 
LaCava doesn’t typically stop to give interviews, either, al­though he understood why all the attention on his first day at work. He is only the third full-time caddie Woods has employed in his 15 years. 
“I understand it’s the first week,” LaCava said. “I don’t want to not talk to people any­more just because I work for Ti­ger. But at the same time, I want to fly under the radar. He’s the one hitting the golf ball. I’m just caddying for him.” 


Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 

EXPND JON REPINE 
JUMBLE MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, October 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame moves to Hockey East, announces TV deal 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The ice of the Compton Family Ice Arena was busy Wednesday afternoon — but not with skates, sticks and pucks. Microphones, cameras and reporters instead filled the ice to hear Notre Dame’s big announcement: The Irish are heading east. 
Beginning in the 2013-14 season, Notre Dame will play in the Hockey East confer­ence, leaving the Central Col­legiate Hockey Association (CCHA). 
“The addition of Notre Dame signals a significant change in the reach of our conference,” Hockey East commissioner Joe Bertag­na said. “When Notre Dame ended the seasons of [Hockey East members] New Hamp­shire and Merrimack, it was been decided that when we couldn’t beat them, we should join them.” 
Preseason No. 1 Notre Dame will join perennial powers Boston College and Boston University in a league that has produced three of the last four national champions and seven overall. UMass-Lowell, Massachusetts, Ver­mont, Northeastern, Maine and Providence comprise the rest of Hockey East. 
“We have been looking to expand Hockey East for quite some time, but with the right partner,” Boston Uni­versity Director of Athletics Mike Lynch said. “We believe firmly that we have found that partner. We are thrilled to welcome Notre Dame to Hockey East and look forward to many great years together in our conference.” 
Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said Notre Dame considered two other options — hockey in­dependence and the newly formed National Collegiate Hockey Conference (NCHC) — before ultimately landing in Hockey East. 
“We had to make sure to consider all of the options 
MEN’S SOCCER 

All knotted up 
Irish hold on through double overtime to end game with a 1-1 tie against Wildcats 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sport Writer 
A steal from Irish senior defender Michael Knapp in the final seconds looked like it was the winning play the Irish needed in double-over­time until his shot on goal was deflected by a Northwest­ern defender, leading to a 1-1 tie Wednesday. 
“I thought we played well in both overtimes, and I thought we looked like the team that was most likely to win the game,” Clark said. “They gave us all we could handle for the game tonight. It wasn’t one of our better games.” 
The No. 11 Irish (5-2-4) are 1-2-3 in this season’s six overtime contests. The Irish are well seasoned in overtime play, as six of their 13 games have lasted more than the regulation 90 minutes. 
“We have had a lot of over­time games,” Irish coach Bob­by Clark said. “I don’t know what the reason is, but it would be nice if we could get to bed a little earlier. At least we didn’t lose tonight. That was a positive.” 
Notre Dame put a point on the scoreboard first in the 38th minute as junior for­ward Ryan Finley sent a shot past Northwestern goalkeep­er Tyler Miller off an assist from senior midfielder Adam Mena. 
“It was a nice pass by Mena to Finley,” Clark said. “Ryan [Finley] sent it away quite calmly. Hopefully that starts him on a run of scoring goals.” 
Before the game, Finley and Mena were tied for most goals scored so far this season for the Irish. 
After Wednesday’s scoring play, Finley leads Notre Dame with four total, and Mena, the previously established leader of assists with three, tacked on another assist for four on available to us and make the right choice for our student-athletes and our coaches and the University,” Swarbrick said. 
the season.  
“Mena  has  certainly  been  
involved.  He’s  doing  very  
well,  actually,”  Clark  said.  

Swarbrick cited many rea­sons for joining the confer­ence, including the student-athlete experience in which missed class time and travel factored into the decision. 
“[We want] to use sports to promote the University and we believe our affilia­
see CHANGES/page 13 


“He’s looking dangerous, the In the first half, the Wildcats nice thing is that he’s not just offensively outplayed Notre scoring goals, but he’s actu-Dame. The Irish were out-ally making goals too.” shot 6-2 with no corner kicks 
to Northwestern’s two. How­ever unmatched the teams 
see DRAW/page 12 
ND WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY 
Rydberg leads team by example 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Junior Jessica Rydberg earned the Big East Cross Coun­try Athlete of the Week distinc­tion after winning the 5K at the National Catholic Champion­ships on Sept. 16. She became the ninth consecutive Notre Dame women’s runner to win the meet and, with a time of 17:16, the third-fastest mark in meet history. Rydberg has also contributed in other major ways to the Irish squad this season, including placing second in the season-opening Crusader Invi­tational at Valparaiso. 
As much success as she’s ex-
see RYDBERG/page 12 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Frilling, Mathews battle for All-American titles 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Irish senior captains Shannon Mathews and Kristy Frilling traveled to California earlier this week to compete in the 2011 All-American Cham­pionship in Pacific Pali­sades, Calif., which begin today. 
Mathews played in the qualifying rounds of the tournament earlier this week. Tuesday she ad­vanced to the round of 32, defeating Georgia’s Nadja Gilchrist in three rounds. Mathews fell to South Carolina’s Diana Stojic on Wednesday, disqualifying her from singles play. For the second day in a row, the match went to three sets. Stojic took the first 7-6, but Mathews rallied and won the second set 6-3. 
After a battle that last­ed over three hours and included the second tie­breaker of the match, Sto­jic finally clinched the set 7-6, ending Mathew’s run 
see FRILLING/page 13 




