
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Grad families seek cheaper healthcare 
University works toward better plan, dependents of graduate students lack adequate coverage 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
For some Notre Dame commu­nity members, a minor infection or fever can be a major source of anxiety. 
Angela Campbell, a Canadian citizen whose husband is a grad­uate student in political science, has lived without health insur­ance since the couple arrived at Notre Dame five years ago. 
Campbell was recently sick for six weeks, and put off medical care for as long as possible. 
“I just kept saying, ‘I just have to get better, I don’t want to go to the doctor,’” she said. “In the event that something really bad would happen, I would probably just get in my car and drive [nine hours] to Canada.” 
Notre Dame’s health insur­ance premium for spouses of students is over $4,000, and Campbell doesn’t qualify for state healthcare. 
The cost for insuring a spouse and all children this year under the University’s 


see HEALTH/page 5 




ND Forum hosts Gov. Christie 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The 2011-12 Notre Dame Forum will bring New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie to campus today to discuss education re­form at the symposium, “Edu­cational In­novation and the Law.” 
Nicole Stelle Gar­nett, Forum committee co-chair and law profes­sor at Notre Dame, said she believes Christie will provide an important perspective to Notre Dame’s yearlong conversation on K-12  education. 
“Gov. Christie has proposed 

see CHRISTIE/page 7 




Schmuhl selected to political office 
Mayor-elect Pete Buttigieg selects ‘05 grad as Dem. party chairman 

By ADRIANNA PRATT 
Associate News Editor 
One eighth grade morning, Mike Schmuhl, ’05, woke up, got dressed and headed to Saint Joseph’s High School in South Bend to catch a glimpse of what his academic, athletic and social future might hold. 
Little did he realize that his day spent shadowing the life of a high school freshman would lead to a career 14 years later. 
Pete Buttigieg, now the may-or-elect of South Bend, greeted Schmuhl at the door to give him a tour. The rest … is history. 
Schmuhl was selected as the Democratic party chairman for Indiana’s 2nd District Sunday after managing winning cam­paigns for Buttigieg this year and U.S. Rep. Joe Donnelly last year. He is also working as But­tigieg’s chief of staff, assisting Buttigieg with his transition into office. 

“I think we’re a great team and we’re very invested in the future of South Bend, and we 

see SCHMUHL/page 6 


College of  A&L creates new business minor 

By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
Next fall semester, the College of Arts and Letters will offer a new minor in Business Economics, providing students with the oppor­tunity to gain basic knowledge of business-related skills. 
“We’re very excited to offer the Business Economics minor next fall,” Dean of the College of Arts and Letters John McGreevy said. “It should be a great opportunity for Arts and Letters students to learn about the basic concepts of the business world.” 
The minor will consist of five courses: two in economics, one in accounting, one in finance and one in statistics. 
“It should be a rigorous, chal­lenging program,” McGreevy said. 
McGreevy said the number of students whose primary major falls in the College of Arts and Let­ters has recently declined, while more students seem to be taking an interest in business. 
“At the same time, the number of majors in Arts and Letters has remained stable because so many students are double-majoring from [Mendoza] into [the College of] Arts and Letters,” he said. “We see this as an attractive option for those 


see MINOR/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Undertones to release holiday CD page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Football fashion page 10 u No.4 Hockey to face No.3 BC page 20 u Irish Insider 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST WAY TO EAT AN OREO? 
www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Allan Joseph Adam Llorens Mike Monaco Bridget Feeney Cory Bernard Graphics Andrew Owens Marina Kozak Scene Photo Troy Mathew Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Megan Kozak  


Joe Binzer  Samantha  Dom Campion  Sein Shea  Angelo Calderon  Elizabeth Arevalo  
Hoffman  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  junior  freshman  sophomore  
Keenan  Lewis  Stanford  Pasquerilla West  Keenan  Pasquerilla West  
“Twist ‘em apart  “Dipped in  “Eat the whole  “Frozen.”  “Crushed up  “It’s all about  
and dunk ‘em in  peanut butter.”  thing.”  on top of ice  the filling.”  
milk.”  cream.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Thousands gather for Guin­ness World Records day 
LONDON — Irish lepre­chauns, tea-sipping Britons, Australian ABBA imperson­ators and the oldest yoga teacher on the planet were just some of the people setting world records on Thursday. 
More than 300,000 people around the world took part in the seventh annual Guinness World Records Day, in which a number of records have al­ready been confirmed. 
They included the largest cream tea party (334 partici­pants) in Essex, England; the largest gathering of people dressed as leprechauns (262 participants) in Dublin; the oldest yoga teacher (91 years old) and the largest hula hoop workout (221 children) both in Florida. 
In keeping with the national theme, 262 people in Dublin got into leprechaun costume to break the record previously set in the United States. 
“We believe that a record for leprechauns belongs to its native soil and we’re re­ally pleased to bring it back to Ireland,” Derek Mooney from Ireland’s RTE Radio One said. 
German firm sells space travel insurance 

FRANKFURT — A German firm is to start offering space travel insurance, hoping to cash in on a new wave of ‘or­dinary astronauts’ ahead of next year’s first commercial space trips. 
Insurance giant Allianz will start offering its new space travel policies to coincide with the launch of Virgin Galactic, a spaceflight company. 
So far about 450 people have reserved seats for the $200,000 five-minute trips into ‘sub-orbital’ space. 
Erick Morazin, an Allianz account director said prices were still being finalized, the most basic level of insurance for such trips was likely to start at around $700 and go up to as much as $10,000. 
“We are looking into space tourism as a new market for the next generation of travel­lers,” he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Today there will be a sym­posium called “Educational Innovation and the Law” from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame Law School. The keynote speaker, New Jersey Governer Chris Christie, will speak from 2:30 to 3:30 p.m. in Room 1170 of the Patrick 
F. McCartan Courtroom. 
There will be a lecture called “Air War, Propagan­da and Woolf’s Anti-Tyran­ny Aesthetic” today from noon to 1 p.m. in Room 204 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. The speaker will be Dr. Elizabeth 
F.Evans, assistant professor of English at Penn State Uni­versity, DuBois. 
Today, the fair trade retail­er Ten Thousand Villages will host a sale of interna­tional handicrafts from 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m. The sale will take place in the Hesburgh Library Atrium and is spon­sored by International Stu­dent Services and Activities. 
There will be a lecture called “The Worlding of Irish Literature” today from 3 to 4:15 p.m. in the Carey Audiorium of the Hesburgh Library. The speaker will be the Donald and Marilyn Keough Chair of Irish Litera­ture, Declan Kiberd. 
The Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics will sponsor a colloquium called “Survival Analysis and Some Recent Devel­opments” today from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH 41 LOW 39 
HIGH 54 LOW 44 
HIGH 48 LOW 32 
HIGH 46 LOW 33 
HIGH 44 LOW 35 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 








CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, an article in the Nov. 17 edition of The Observer reported that fetal stem cell research was a topic of discussion at the International Vatican Conference attended by two Notre Dame professors. The professors presented on adult stem cell research, and both embryonic and fetal stem cell research were not addressed in their discussion. The Observer regrets this error. 




Undertones to release holiday CD 


By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The Undertones — an a cap­pella group of Notre Dame’s Glee Club — will spread holiday cheer with the release of their first Christmas album, “Under the Mistletones.” 
Saturday’s concert at the Hammes Bookstore will serve as both a performance and a release concert for their new al­bum. 
“It is never too early for Christ­mas music,” Peter Baxter, presi­dent of the Undertones said. 
The plan for their new Christ­mas album releasing just in time for the holiday season formed last January while the group was on tour in Colorado, Baxter said. 
“We really found a great dy­namic throughout our Colo­rado tour, and we realized that we would love to preserve our unique sound if we could man­age it,” he said. 
Not long after the tour, the group began working on the al­bum. 
“2011 graduate Matt Swanson, then our musical director, gath­ered arrangements for us and we spent the rest of the spring dividing our time between the recording studio and rehearsing Spring Concert material,” Baxter said. “Collectively, we decided a Christmas album would be great for the group to have for years to come, and that it would be a blast to create.” 
Baxter said a major influence in the release of the album is the Undertones’ sound engineer, Tony Huerta. 
“It has been awesome to be able to work with Tony [Huerta] throughout the entire production process,” Baxter said. “His group, ‘Urban Method,’ is featured as a finalist on NBC’s ‘The Sing Off,’ and we have really learned a lot from all of his experience.” 
If fans walk away from the con­cert wanting to hear more from the Undertones, Baxter said the group will continue with their usual holiday traditions as the end of the semester approaches. 

“We will begin caroling as part of the Glee Club in the com­ing weeks and the Undertones Christmas concert will be on Friday, Dec. 9,” he said. “We will also be performing songs from ‘Under the Mistletones’ when we tour through Florida in January.” 
Baxter said the group is ex­cited to share their holiday song renditions with a larger audi­ence, and said the album will serve as lasting evidence of the group’s hard work. 
“Whether it is leaving a tour stop or eventually leaving the University, our Christmas album is a neat way to continue shar­ing our music after we leave,” he said. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 



SMC book fair to benefit students, community 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Buy a book today, and help a student in the future. 
By purchasing a book from the third annual Usborne Book Fair at Saint Mary’s col­lege, students, faculty, staff and community members can give back to the community in an indirect way. All proceeds from the books purchased benefit the Learning Tree — an educational resource cen­ter on campus. 
“We will get 50 percent of all profits from the Fair to use towards the purchase of new books for the Learning Tree,” Director of the Learning Tree Jayne Fogle said. “For exam­ple, if the Book Fair makes $100, I will get to select $50 worth of free books from Us-borne. It’s a wonderful oppor­tunity and we really appreci­ate people’s help with this.” 
Once the Tree acquires the free books, they are added to its library. 
“The Learning Tree’s li­brary has received over hun­dreds of books through Us-borne,” Fogle said. “It’s been a nice thing to have each year.” 
Fogle said education ma­jors devising units and lesson plans for their student teach­ings are the primary users of the library books. However, faculty and students from all areas of study are able to check the books out. 
“These books are not solely for education majors,” Fogle said. “They don’t have to be used just in the classroom. We have a lot of multicultural books, too. Anyone from Saint Mary’s can check out a book and use them for homework, presentations or other proj­ects.” 
By purchasing a book, how­ever, customers benefit, too. The books included in the fair cover a variety of genres suit­ed for preschool all the way to the high school level. 
“These books are bet­ter quality [than most other books],” she said. “There will be some history, science, cook­books and activity books. We have a lot of neat art books, too. There are some really fun books for sale.” 
Prices range from $5 to $20, plus tax. 
While the books are diverse and fairly affordable, Fogle said her primary goal for the Fair is to provide a fun out­let for the community to pur­chase Christmas gifts. 
“When I first asked [an Us-borne representative] about doing a fundraiser at Saint Mary’s, I was trying to think of fun things that people could do for Christmas gifts,” she said. 
Fogle said she expects the event to be an enjoyable one this year because of the Fair’s success in the past. 
“A lot of people look forward to it every year. I have gotten emails saying people are ex­cited to come back and buy some new books.” 
Customers can purchase books at the Fair from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. today. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 





lion dollars each year. daughter, 6, is a Canadian citi-also has a much greater endow-Sterling said with the stipu­“It would take several mil-zen and only qualifies for emer-ment per student than Notre lations of healthcare reform, 
Health lion dollars per year. It’s not one gency healthcare under the state Dame does. which will be phased in next 
time. If we could come up [with] plan. Ricky Klee, a graduate student year and eventually require the 
continued from page 1 $2 million to fix the problem — “It’s very stressful,” Campbell in theology, said by making it University to provide unlimited it’s not just for one year; it is ev-said. difficult for graduate students coverage, premium prices will ery year,” he said. Nathan Elliot, rector of Uni-to have families at Notre Dame, continue to rise. 
health plan is nearly $7,500 for Since becoming Dean in 2008, versity Village, said interna-the University is going against He said the Graduate School each family. And with gradu-Sterling has been addressing tional children are the most its Catholic background that has been looking at different ate students making as little as two main priorities for graduate vulnerable under the current promotes family life. Klee has ways to cut the cost of health­$17,500 per year, Campbell said students — their stipends, which healthcare setup since they only participated in protests outside care for dependents. One solu­purchasing University health in-have gone up, and their health qualify for emergency care un-the Main Building the past few tion would be to provide dis­surance is almost impossible. insurance. Health insurance for der the state plan. years and helped coordinate a counted clinical service at the 
The Campbells’ situation is the individual student has be-“Here at the Village we have petition to the administration in new Wellness Center that will not unique for graduate student come more affordable. a pretty good network of people the spring of 2010. open in July. families, both international and Healthcare affordability for who share what they do with “Doing the numbers it is ex-“We’ve lobbied, and with a American. With the University’s the families of graduate stu-others, that’s fortunate,” Elliot pensive, it’s almost a million great deal of sympathy from the high premiums for dependents, dents, however, has been an is-said.  “[But] at least the way I dollars a year,” Klee said. “But Provost, and the Executive Vice and difficulty finding alternate sue since University Health Di-think about it is it shouldn’t have [comparing that] to varsity ath-President, and the President, coverage, many graduate stu-rector Ann Kleva came to Notre to be that complicated, I think letics teams, increases in execu-to have the spouses and depen­dent families must resort to Dame in 1994. we could do better.” tives’ salaries…the question is, dents of graduate students re­paying out of pocket for routine “It’s just been a very sensi-which is imperative. It’s more ceive healthcare from the Well-medical care. tive issue for all the years that Why are the premiums so high? important to make sure the kids ness Center,” Sterling said. 
Greg Sterling, Dean of the I’ve been here, the cost of family Sam Rund, president of the can go to the doctor.” But right now, there are no Graduate School, said the Uni-health,” she said. “Health insur-Graduate Student Union (GSU,) Sterling said a significant specifics. versity has been working for a ance for any family today is very, said every time someone asks amount of the University budget Kleva said she anticipates the long time to find a better solution very expensive…especially when him what issues are most impor-has gone to the Graduate School situation to remain difficult for for these families. you’re on a limited income.” tant to graduate students, insur-in recent years, and much of that graduate student families un­
“This is an issue that keeps ance for dependents is at the top money has contributed to the til healthcare reform passes in me up at night; I feel terrible At The Village: Ways of Coping of his list. rise in student stipends—some-Washington, D.C. about it. And there’s nobody who Campbell said healthcare is-“It could literally be a life or thing that is beneficial for every “Personally, I believe [health­doesn’t want to help in the cen-sues are almost a fact of life death issue for someone,” Rund student. care reform] truly will be a ben­tral administration — the chal-within the University Village said. “There’s this extra special Even within the Catholic faith, efit for lower income families lenge is the cost,” Sterling said. community, Notre Dame’s stu-obligation I feel to fight for insur-Sterling said, some students say that need healthcare insurance, “Right now, sometimes people dent family housing. ance coverage for these people.” it’s the University’s responsi-because they’ll have options and say, well, ‘the University has “Everyone, every one of my The question many graduate bility to provide healthcare for the government will be offering money.’ Well, the University does neighbors has major issues with students have is: why can’t Notre families, while others think it’s subsidies for those that meet in-have money, but it’s all commit-health insurance or they’re un-Dame, a well-endowed Universi-a personal responsibility. come levels,” Kleva said. “Again, ted. And so you make choices.” insured,” Campbell said. ty, make healthcare for families “Another factor which people you don’t know when all this is 
But the costs, he said, are What she said really scares more affordable? will ask and debate is the role… going to pass.” 
staggering—up to several mil-her is the prospect of needing Some graduate schools of com-the extent to which the Univer-With University premiums emergency or long-term medical parable universities offer much sity is responsible, versus which projected to rise over the next care. lower premium rates for fami-the student is responsible for few years, government subsidies 
“I always hope that if some-lies. But Sterling said compar-their own family,” he said. that come with healthcare re-thing really bad happens it’s in ing Notre Dame to other schools form may be the only promising our car, because our car insur-wouldn’t be comparing “apples Future Effects of Healthcare option for many graduate stu­ance covers the medical cost,” to apples,” because universities Reform dent families at Notre Dame. she said. “[I think] ‘if I have to with lower premiums may not Sterling said he recognizes “I have to say, I love ND for break a leg, please let it be in my have as comprehensive a plan as graduate student families have so many reasons, it is really a vehicle.’” Notre Dame. an immediate need for health-wonderful place to be,” [Angela] 
Campbell’s husband is insured “A lot of the differences you care coverage. But there’s no Campbell said. “[But] being in by the University plan, and the see in the price will depend on “magic wand.” the Village we’re quite forgotten Campbells’ two sons are Ameri-the level of services the insur-“I do think that we would like and health insurance is just an-can citizens, so they qualify for ance provides,” he said. to find a far better solution to other thing on the list.” Hoosier Healthwise— Indiana’s He said that Yale University, this than what currently exists state Medicaid plan. which provides a very reason-because what currently exists is Contact Sara Felsenstein at 
But the Campbells’ first able health plan for families, not good,” he said. sfelsens@nd.edu 





Professor discusses state of China 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
Despite fears of China’s grow­ing strength, it is unlikely that China will ever become a large expansionist state, Assistant Professor of Political Science Victoria Tin-bor Hui said. 
In her presentation at the Hesburgh Center on Thursday, Hui said she looked to China’s past as evidence of non-growth. 
“History shows it’s not in [China’s] DNA to expand,” Hui said. 
Her re­
“Unity is not the norm. It’s the opposite. Peripheral and interi­or unity has only been the case for the last 81 years,” she said. 
Hui added that the desire for emperors to “rule everything under heaven” and to expand was always offset by power bal­ancing forces in Asia. 
“Every unified dynasty want­ed to expand to the periphery,” she said.  
The huge expenses of war 
often forced China to stop ex­pansion and retreat. Mobi­lizing human and material 

search reveals “China has never resou rces, that even at manufactur­
sought expansion in 
peaks of its ing weapons 
history and therefore 
power, Chi-and con-
will never seek it.” 
na has never scripting and made huge paying troops ter ritor ia l added to lo-
Victoria Tin-bor Hui conquests, and associate professor gistical dif­she predicts Department of Political Science ficulties, like 
China will grow peace­fully instead of threateningly. 
“China has never sought expansion in his­tory and therefore will never seek it,” she said. 
China contains multiple re­gions and nations that have not always been unified. Chinese dynasties have conquered and then retreated from peripheral areas to the West as these dy­nasties grew and declined. This created a cycle of alternating periods of unified and divided China, she said. 
moving sup­plies, food and troops to the edges of the empire. As the 
territory stretched, these costs only grew, naturally stunting the expansion, she said. 
“Distance makes it difficult to project power,” she said. 
Additionally, the costs of maintaining new territories only grew as China’s territory expanded.  The expense of oc­cupation and the suppression of revolts meant the more Chi­na grew, the less money China had to expand further, she said. 
This often led to an over-stretch of resources, and China eventu­ally ran out of money and pulled back. 
“Every conquest was a drain on the central treasury … Over time, they would run into bud­get deficits,” Hui said. 
Hui said several reasons ac­count for the past 81 years of a unified China, including inter­national loans, revenue from European exports of resources like tea and ceramics and other nations labeling China as a uni­fied state. 
“International recognition mattered as much as internal control,” she said. 
China’s history of non-expan­sion past its peripheral regions shows China is, by its nature, not going to aggressively ac­quire territory in the future, she said. 
Despite this thesis, Hui ac­knowledged that current for­eign policy of modern China still leaves the possibility of China expanding and falsifying her assessment of its future. 
“When we look at the logics, two systems [the desire to con­quest and the balancing of forc­es] working against each other … makes it almost impossible to make a solid prediction,” she said. “The future will not be dictated by what happened 2,000 years ago, it will be de­cided by what we do today and tomorrow.” 
Contact Abi Hoverman at       ahoverman@nd.edu 


Schmuhl 
continued from page 1 
want to get more young people involved in the process,” Schmuhl said. 
Yet, the ties between Buttigieg and Schmuhl run deeper, as both of their fathers are professors at Notre Dame. English Profes­sor Joseph Buttigieg and Robert Schmuhl, the director of the John 
W. Gallivan Program in Journal­ism, Ethics and Democracy, have known each other for years, Mike Schmuhl said. 
“Our dads are friends … I think they started [at Notre Dame] the exact same year,” Schmuhl said. 
While Buttigieg headed to Har­vard after high school, Schmuhl decided to pursue a History major and European Studies minor at the University of Notre Dame. His in­volvement on campus ranged from playing football for O’Neill to writ­ing for the school paper. 
“I was an Assistant Scene Edi­tor for The Observer in — I believe 2001 and 2002,” Schmuhl said. “I used to do music reviews when I was at The Observer and I did Snoop Dog and I did a Battle of the Bands … music reviews and con­cert reviews and album reviews and it was really funny … I had no idea probably what I was writing about or anything like that.” 
As a junior, Schmuhl spent a se­mester in Washington, D.C., intern­ing for “Meet the Press” with the late Tim Russert. The 2004 Demo­cratic Primaries were the big news item at the time, and Schmuhl said the experience hardened his inter­est in politics and journalism. 
“One of the main reasons I got involved with politics and journal­ism was I did the Washington, D.C. program my junior year,” Schmuhl said. “[Interning with ‘Meet the Press’] was awesome and just a great experience.” 
After graduating in 2005, Schmuhl took a job as a journalist in Minneapolis, then became a ra­dio and television producer for The Washington Post for three years. Schmuhl said while he enjoyed being a journalist, his interest in serving South Bend drove him back home. 
“I love the [Washington] Post and I love journalism but … I guess my interest to get involved in my hometown and my community was too strong,” Schmuhl said. 
He came back to South Bend in 2009 and has worked in politics ever since. 
“I think the fundamental rea­son … why Pete ran for mayor and why I moved back home was that a number of the people that we grew up with had a choice, … [and they] chose to leave South Bend,” Schmuhl said. 
“And Pete and I, through this election and hopefully through his service as our next mayor, hope­fully we can change that because it’s a great place to live. It’s a great place to grow up. There’s a lot more to South Bend than meets the eye.” 
Robert Schmuhl said he is proud of his son, who has worked on the district and municipal levels of government since he came back to South Bend. 
“Mike’s always been fascinated by the workings of government and politics,” Robert Schmuhl said. “He returned to South Bend in 2009 to become civically involved … Young people deserve their chance, and we’re proud of him.” 
Though he never took a class with his dad, Schmuhl said his father influenced his career pur­suits. 

“When I was little, I had this great interest in news and poli­tics because my dad and mom and I would watch ‘NBC Nightly News’ before dinner every night,” Schmuhl said. “I just grew up with a great appreciation for … my dad’s interest in news and politics and culture, and the apple did not fall too far from the tree.” 
As the new Democratic chair­man for Indiana’s 2nd District, Schmuhl coordinates Democratic events in North Central Indiana and serves on the state’s Central Committee, which is the governing body of the Indiana Democratic party. 
Schmuhl said he also recruits candidates to run for office and hopes that young people will get more involved in local politics. 
Anything that connects Notre Dame students to the city of South Bend is a great thing for the com­munity, he said. 
“We want to make sure that there are no barriers between the universities and our commu­nities and the city of South Bend, because when we have fewer bar­riers, then you’ll start to see that we’re a definitive college town,” Schmuhl said. 
“I think that South Bend resi­dents and Notre Dame students need to think of their future collec­tively — that the community will be better off if Notre Dame succeeds in graduating young smart people that can serve the community, and Notre Dame succeeds if the city of South Bend has more jobs and eco­nomic growth and more prosper­ity for all of its residents.” 
Contact Adrianna Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

Minor 
continued from page 1 
business students fundamentally attracted to Arts and Letters, but who want some basic business vo­cabulary.” 
Many students believe an Arts and Letters major decreases their chances of finding a job after graduation, so they enroll in Men-professional school, 20 percent go into full-time service and about half go right into the paid labor force.” 
The Business Economics minor will provide students with business terminology and the fundamentals needed to understand a global economy. However, the minor is not necessary to secure a job in the field of business, McGreevy said. 
“Notre Dame students in Arts and Letters already have success 
doza with their future careers in mind, Mc-Greevy said. 
“We think that a lot of students want to be in Arts and Letters, but worry that a degree in the arts won’t serve them well in their future ca­reer searches,” he said. “This is not true. Many Arts and Let­ters students 
“We see this as an attractive option for those business students fundamentally attracted to Arts and Letters, but who want some basic business vocabulary.” 
John McGreevy dean College of Arts & Letters 
in the business world, so you do not need the business minor to find a job. However, we think that for students seri­ously consider­ing a career in business, it will provide a good feel for business vocabulary,” he said. 
One of the main goals of the new minor is to encourage 
pursue a career in business and are very successful.” 
Students in the College of Arts and Letters have a variety of post-graduation options, and they do equally as well in obtaining work as do business students or students from any other college, McGreevy said. 
“We love where our Arts and Letters students end up,” he said. “Almost all of them find satisfy­ing work. Indeed, the number of Arts and Letters students looking for work a year after graduation is the same as for students in any col­lege across the university. About a third of them go on to graduate or students to study what they want to study, regardless of future ca­reer plans, McGreevy said. 
“The bottom line is, we want people to study what they love,” he said. “If you love English, you should study English. If you love science, you should study sci­ence. If you love accounting, you should study accounting. Students shouldn’t panic in their first year about whether or not they are go­ing to find a job because the evi­dence tells us that Notre Dame stu­dents are going to do well.” 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 



Christie 
continued from page 1 
a bold agenda for education reform that seeks to change the status quo and ensure that all children in his state receive the high quality edu­cation they deserve,” she said. “Not everyone agrees with his agenda, but he is worthy of respect for sparking debate in New Jersey and across the country about the important issue of education reform and innovation.” 
Christie will deliver his ad­dress, “Does the Law Impede Educational Innovation?” at 
2:30 p.m. 
The symposium will also include two panels that fea­ture an “all-star lineup” of experts on the law of educa­tion, Garnett said. 
The first panel, which be­gins at 8:30 a.m., will discuss some of the most pressing education policies currently facing the nation, includ­ing school choice, No Child Left Behind and President Obama’s “Race to the Top” education agenda. 
how the law af­fects education reform in the United States. 
“A sys­tem that is not working as well as it should be calls out for reforms featuring in­novative new strategi es, and the law provides the framework that structures those reforms,” she said. 
“This is an 
opportune time to discuss the role of the 

“This is an opportune time to discuss the role of the law in promoting the kinds of innovations that are needed to ensure all kids receive the education they deserve at the schools that will serve their needs best.” 
Nicole Stelle Garnett co-chair Forum committee 
of promis­ing educa­tional in­novations, many of which are prompt­ed and shaped by the law,” she said. “The en­tire day promises to feature stimulat ­ing discus­sion about what we can do to improve the K-12 education 



Apartment construction rises as fewer buy homes 
The second panel, which begins at noon, will confront the legal issues that face schools every day, Garnett said. 
Garnett said the sympo­sium will help bring to light 

Garnett said the sympo­sium will mark an important part of this year’s Forum. 
“We are facing an educa­tional crisis in the United States, but we also are liv­ing through a great period 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Builders have found a way to make mon­ey in a decrepit home market: Apartments. 
Permit requests to build apartments jumped to a three-year high last month. In 12 months, they’ve surged 63 per­cent. 
Blame the housing bust, which left many people with­out the means, the credit or the stomach to buy. More people need apartments. The demand has driven up monthly rents. And apartment-home builders are rushing to cash in. 
That said, the overall home market remains depressed. Builders are still struggling. They broke ground on a sea­sonally adjusted annual rate of 628,000 homes last month, the government said Thurs­day. That’s barely half the pace that economists equate with a healthy market. 
High unemployment, stagnant pay and waves of foreclosures have slowed sales of single-fam­ily homes, which make up about 70 percent of the home building market. Apartment construction may be surging, but it’s a small portion of the industry. 
More apartment building won’t add enough jobs to reduce unemployment or hasten an end to the housing crisis. Still, it’s contributed to the overall econ­omy’s growth for two straight quarters. And many economists expect apartment construction to grow for at least the next 12 months, as long as the economy avoids another recession. 
“You’re not going to see apart­ments as an economic driver,” said James Marple, senior econ­omist at TD Economics. “But it’s renters who are clearly going to drive the demand for housing.” 
It’s also worth keeping the increase in perspective: The growth in apartment construc­tion is coming off extremely low levels. Last year, for example, only 146,000 apartments were built. That was the fewest since 1993. This year’s pace isn’t much more. 
By comparison, in 2005, just before the housing market went bust, 258,000 apartments were built. Some signs suggest that builders could match that level over the next few years. 
One such sign: Permits for apartment buildings, a gauge of future construction, have jumped more than 60 percent over the past year. That com­pares with just 6.6 percent growth in permits for single-family construction over the same period. 
“The demand is there,” said Mark Obrinsky, chief economist at National Multi Housing Coun­
cil. “Rents have recovered, much of them to where they were be­fore the recession.” 
Bob Champion, who runs a real estate company in Los An­geles, says he has four apart­ment projects in development. That matches the number he had in 2005. 
It’s quite a shift from 2006, when Champion’s company stopped building apartments because the cost of land had skyrocketed. 
Champion has raised rents about 4 percent this year. His occupancy rate is 95 percent. As recently as last year, his rents were flat, and he was dangling incentives, like a free month’s rent, to woo tenants. 
“People who can’t afford to buy a home, rent,” Champion said. “That’s why the apartment market has stayed healthy.” 
Champion won’t likely be building as many apartments next year, though. Land prices have doubled in the past two years, he said. Competition for apartment land has intensified. 
For many builders, financ­ing for a project remains a big obstacle. So is time. Apartment projects take an average of 18 months to build. 
Still, fewer home buyers mean more people must rent. Nearly 4 million new renting households were created between 2005 and 2010, according to Harvard’s Joint Center for Housing Studies. Under normal economic condi­tions, that’s more than 10 times the number of new renters who would be expected in a five-year span. 

law in promoting the kinds of innovations that are needed to ensure all kids receive the education they deserve at the schools that will serve their needs best.” 

system in the United States for all students, especially the least advantaged ones.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, November 18, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Majorrevelation 
I spent my entire freshman year at Notre Dame waiting for a revelation. 
This revelation, I hoped, would tell me exactly what my major should be, what courses I should take, whether I should study abroad, and would, as an added bonus, completely map out my future. 
I had no such revelation. 

Instead, I flip-flopped, zigzagged and bounced be­tween intended majors, consid­ering the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies, economics and sociology. I began my sophomore year in the Mendoza College of Busi­ness, thinking, somewhat naïvely, that I could combine my interests in economics and sociology into a major in marketing. 
It only took five weeks after the semester began for me to realize that I was in the wrong college. I found some of my classes interesting and enjoyed accounting, much to my shock, but something wasn’t quite right. I struggled to find meaning in my business classes. I missed the liberal arts, trying to read way more than I could realistically finish in the allotted time, and even the stress of writing 10 to 15 page papers about topics I didn’t fully under­stand. A few weeks later, I left the College of Business, and I’ll begin a major in American Studies next semester. 
By making this switch, I aban­doned the safer path. A major in business would make my job search significantly easier and my career options plentiful. A major in Ameri­can Studies will leave me with a deep understanding of national iden­tity and the potential for service or graduate school. 
Still, I have no regrets. The Col­lege of Business is a positive choice for many people, but it simply wasn’t right for me. I’ve realized that all too often, we’re afraid of staying true to our interests and passions because we think these choices might set us back in some way. We have an idea of where we want to be in five or 10 or 20 years, and we tailor all of our decisions to that end goal. But when we fail to deviate from the beaten path, what do we give up? 
When I told my Great Depression-era grandfather that I had aban­doned my practical business major to study a liberal arts discipline that he had never heard of, I expected him to tell me I had made a foolish decision. Instead, he responded in a way that surprised me. 
“I guess you’re still young enough that you can make choices based on what you truly want instead of thinking only about what’s most practical,” he said. 
So, that’s the line I’m going with for now. By choosing to major in American Studies, if nothing else, I’m being true to who I am and what I want. Where’s the mistake in that? 
It may be cliché, but it bears re­peating: We’re still young enough to follow our hearts. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Treatise on marshmallows 

It’s over, just like that. We 2,000 seniors have walked into Notre Dame Stadium 26 times as students and, after this weekend, will never do so again. Those 27 Saturdays will go down as the greatest 27 Saturdays of our lives. 
And they’re gone. 

Really, there is only one aspect of Saturday’s finality we can look forward to without a heavy tinge of 
sadness — Marshmallows, they aren’t just 
those who endured the last four years alongside for hot chocolate anymore. They are for pelt-them is wholly foolish thinking. These students ing your friends, acquaintances and complete stood beside each other through 10 home losses, strangers. including defeats at the hands of Syracuse, USC, 
We thus proceed to the first inquiry. Stadium Navy, Connecticut, Tulsa, South Florida and 
ushers, state police and all figures of authority insist throwing marshmallows is foolish for the following reasons: 
Objection 1. It would seem when marshmallows are com­bined with pennies, they become lethal projectiles. 
Obj. 2.  Further, it would seem when marshmallows are combined with rain and middling temperatures, they be­come an adhesive akin to three tons of super glue-covered duct tape. 
Obj. 3. It would seem bringing outside food or drink into Notre Dame Stadium is not only frowned upon, but also il­legal. 
On the contrary, the student section belongs to the stu­dents and the traditions they uphold. And to tradition belong good times and winning, as have been maintained before. Therefore, the student section belongs to good times and winning. 
I answer that, tradition is an objective matter, determined by the masses, privy to change as the masses see fit. Though tradition is an evolving matter, some traditions are not meant to ever depart. Winning is one such tradition. Another is the art of the marshmallow throw. As long as the student body enjoys throwing little balls of corn syrup, sugar and artificial flavoring, they shall be allowed to do so. 
Reply to Objection 1: The students throwing the marsh­mallows attend Notre Dame, and, for the most part, Notre 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Dame students are an intelligent group. They are not prone to wasting money. When they do, it is on three pairs of differ­ently-colored UGG boots or drink specials at Kildare’s or Brothers, not by shoving laundry money into marshmallows. Furthermore, Notre Dame students are not a vengeful group­ing of citizens. To think these 2,000 seniors would intention­
ally, knowingly, consciously inflict harm on 
USC again. These students sat beside each other watching another 10 losses on the road, including follies at the feet of USC, Michigan, the “Little Giants” of Michigan State and Navy. These students are not intending to hurt each other. Rather, these students are intending to celebrate four years together, in a childish, light-hearted manner. 
Reply to Obj. 2: Forecasts predict only a few showers. Even if the clouds were to open a la the South Florida hurricane, a cement-to-shoe goo would only add to the carefree nature of this tradition. 
Reply to Obj. 3: The North Face makes bulky jackets for a reason, as do Columbia and Patagonia. Their reason is to protect you from the harsh cold of northern Indiana winters. Adding bags of marshmallows to the jacket’s original layers will only add to the insulation value of the garment, as well as hide said marshmallows from any intrusive ushers. 
Conclusion: After four years of mediocrity, after four years of lasting memories, after four years of good times, it is time for the 2,000 seniors to celebrate together. It is time for the 2,000 seniors to act like the snow is falling while the Irish lose to Syracuse, and throw some snow-colored marshmal­lows. 
It is time for a marshmallow fight. Students, seniors and mates of the Class of 2012, let us insist on throwing marsh­mallows. It is foolish for all these reasons, and it is right for all these reasons. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 

“Life is difficult and complicated and beyond anyone’s total control, and the humility to know that will enable you to survive its vicissitudes.” 
J.K. Rowling British author 



Friday, November 18, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Changing The Shirt 
Did you know that it takes 40,000 liters of water to produce the cotton needed for a single t-shirt, that current industry practices will waste hun­dreds more during the production process, a process that involves carcino­genic chemicals and dyes, one often carried in outsourced factories employ­ing children for less than $2 a day? Obviously, intelligent ways of fabricating clothing are going to be an important part of building a sustainable society, yet few people are aware of the real costs of their clothes. Case in point: The Shirt, which sells to over 160,000 fans each year. 
A company called SustainU is looking to change that in its bid to provide the 2012 Shirt. Founded by a Notre Dame graduate and former fullback for the Fighting Irish, SustainU is making sensible changes in the way we think about clothing. I believe there is no better way for them to do so than The Shirt, a non-profit garment that already speaks volumes about Notre Dame’s global mission. By contracting SustainU, we could send a strong message to the Notre Dame community and the rest of the world, all while saving 200,000,000 gallons of water, 400,000 kg of CO2 emissions and 25,000 gal­lons of gasoline that would otherwise be used in production and shipping. What’s more, SustainU would utilize recycled materials and sustainable techniques in the textile process. Its services would divert 1.4 million plastic bottles from our waste stream (q.v. Virginia Tech’s rally towels) and subtract 50,000 pounds of cloth from our landfills. 
Securing a license to produce Notre Dame items costs a manufacturer $40,000, but few of them can claim that their offerings will actually brighten Notre Dame’s image and build upon our university’s story of sustainability. And hey, who can argue with breaking the streak of putting carcinogens in our Shirt prints? That’s why I would encourage all of you to join me in sup­porting SustainU in its bid for the next Shirt. Together, we can build a better future. 
Please send your thoughts to The Shirt Project at theshirt@nd.edu, or Stu­dent Government at studegov@nd.edu! 
Christopher Mathew 
senior Stanford Hall Nov. 16 


Don’t fear the unknown 
Mr. Anderson (“Extraterrestrial intelligence,” Nov. 17), 
While I appreciate your concern for the continued survival of humanity as we know it, your fear of extraterrestrial life and the unknown is contrary to everything humanity has ever worked for. To start, the SETI is designed to look for extraterrestrial life, not contact it. I do agree that even if we did successfully contact alien life, the probability their intellectual level or moral values being close to ours is pretty low. However, if our technology allowed us to make the initial contact, do you really believe they’d have such advanced technology to be able to warp from light-years away to enslave us? I’m also skeptical at the use a few billion humans would be to a civilization that has mastered the use of hyper-speed. And if there’s anything Call of Duty has taught me, it’s that we’re more than willing to blow ourselves up in defense before we let anyone tell us what to do. 
In your article you stated, “I am just fine remaining intelligently alone on this planet.” When Columbus was thinking about finding a faster route to the East Indies, what if he said, “Eh, you know what, I’m just fine remaining alone in Spain. After all, who knows what’s over there that could kill me?” On a more personal note, I assume you were a little nervous and anxious head­ing to your first day at ND. Why didn’t you just play it safe and stay at home? After all, there was the possibility you wouldn’t make friends or maybe you wouldn’t have been able to comprehend any of the material. Discovery and the urge to understand the unknown is why we’re advanced as we are to­day. I’m willing to be scared and take the risk of failure before submitting to burying my head in the sand at the thought of the unknown any day. Einstein sums it up pretty well: “The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious.” 
Kevin Klima 
senior off-campus Nov. 17 



Notre Dame hockey bliss 
With my beloved Chicago Bulls locked out for the considerable future, I need a new winter sport to follow. Instead of turning to Notre Dame Bas­ketball, I went to three Fighting Irish hockey games in the past week, and I couldn’t have enjoyed them more. 
Notre Dame Hockey is pure, unadulterated bliss. After tolerating NBC’s policy of airing commercials with brief interludes of football for the past few years, it is wonderful to watch shift after shift go by without interruption. Notre Dame also plays a beautiful style of controlled, unselfish hockey that keeps fans on edge, waiting for an opponent to drift out of position for just a moment. This is magnified on Irish powerplays, which have been exceptional. Watching their powerplay is like watching Michael Floyd in single coverage — a mix of anticipation, possibility and awe. 
The Irish Hockey team is also really good. It started the week ranked fourth in the nation, and during its 3-2 win over No. 10 Western Michigan on Tues­day night, there were a couple moments of brilliance to justify that place. The team’s talent, though, doesn’t take away from the excitement of each game. I love our football team’s recent streak of wins, but the lack of drama in recent blowouts can cause me to lose focus. Hockey, compared to football, features much more unpredictability. Last weekend, Alaska almost stole a win by playing conservatively, blocking a lot of shots and getting a little lucky. The third period was a frenzy of missed opportunities and outstanding play from the Alaskan goalie before the game-winning goal finally came 40 seconds from the finish. The new arena also positions the student body against the glass behind the opposing goalie, perfect for a fan stupid enough to think his or her cheering alters the game (like me). 
Despite our excellent hockey team, the attendance is good, but not great. I wish I had attended more games during my first three years here, especially with free admission. The team plays a very good Boston College team this Friday, and I’m sure they would love some more support. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Hartrich 
senior off-campus Nov. 17 
UWIRE 


Twitter poised to become top dog 

The AOL Instant Messenger was the direct form of communication back in the days of dial-up Internet. It was the only way to talk to our friends and elemen­tary crushes Caroline Nachazel without be­ing heard on The Arizona the house Daily Wildcat phone. 
As we matured and went on to middle school and high school, social networking evolved with us. The handheld, mirror shot was born and the world of Myspace was the only place to be seen. If you didn’t have the right pictures, the best quotes, the coolest celebrity’s photo under the “role models” section, you were a loser. 
Myspace was a gateway drug into the world of social media. Toward the end of high school, when we became wiser and “too mature” for Myspace, the Facebook era began. It is not news that Facebook has taken over the world. With over 800 million users today, Facebook has become a tool for both social and professional networking. Despite that, Facebook is past its prime. 
Twitter, although it has been around since 2006, will soon be the tool to use. The CEO of Twitter, Dick Costolo, reported in September that more than 100 million users are now active on Twitter. Still 75 percent less than Facebook, Twitter will soon become the new Facebook and Face­book will become the new Myspace. According to Mashable Social Media, there are 230 million tweets a day, 8,900 per second. 
Unlike Facebook, Twitter gives people direct access to celebrities. While not everyone is obsessed with following a certain famous person’s every move, millions of people are. The top five followed people (Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber, Katy Perry, Kim Kardashian and Barack Obama) tweet daily on their whereabouts and appearances. This gives more than 11 million fans desperately desired communication in 140 characters or less. 
If you own the iPhone, a Twitter account is coming your way shortly. The 200 million plus people who own iPhones, according to CNN, will be forced to share via Twitter if they have a habit of commonly posting photos, videos and links. The iOS 5 software, released in early October, includes Twitter integration. After taking a picture, listening to a song or using any of the iPhone features, a Twitter button is ready to be tapped for instant upload. Facebook, avail­able for download on any iPhone, will not be able to survive the fierce competition Twitter is bringing. With Apple endorsing it, there is no doubt that Twitter’s popularity will dra­matically increase. 
We have been through a lot with Facebook, but sadly its time has end­ed. Soon liking comments and stalk­ing profiles will be a thing of the past. Becoming obsessed with Twit­ter will not be as dangerous as Face­book. Although there are still ways to waste hours scrolling through the site, Twitter is a more condensed, savvy way to social network. 
If you aren’t quite ready to say goodbye to Facebook, treat it like a Band-Aid. Deactivate it quickly then post your first tweet. 
This article originally ran in the Nov. 17 edition of The Arizona Daily Wildcat, the newspaper serving The University of Arizona. 



Kelly Green 
There ’s more than one way to go green. Plan an ensem ble around this “Go Irish” color, and you’ll make more than just the Bos­ton College fans green with envy. 

Notre Dame Archive 
Leprechaun, 2000 

FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 
Sophomore Margeaux Prinster models kelly green. Forever 21: Caramel Shorts - $24.90, Kelly Green Sweater 
-$19.80, Kelly Green Shirt - $8.50 

Elbow Patches 

In the early years of foot­ball, circa 1900, the only upper-body protection was elbow patches. Although our football players have upped the padding, the original has become a fashion classic. Move over upcoming finals, you’re ready to make your own tackle. 

FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 
Sophomore Margeaux Prinster models referee attitude. Forever 21: Sweater - $14.50, Skirt - $15.80 








By FELICIA CAPONIGRI 
Scene Writer 
Fashion, as we know, takes many forms. There are so many styles, labels, designers and trends to make us run mad. There is, however, one universal element of fashion — it is a non-ver­bal, visual language. No matter what you wear, your clothes communicate what is important to you and what you hold most dear. Here at Notre Dame, there’s one activity that drives our tradition more than any other — football. While we may be say­ing farewell to tailgates, pep rallies and cheers until next sea­son, there’s no reason we can’t carry football’s importance to us on our sleeves, literally. What though the odds be great or small, wearing plaid in memory of the Irish Guard, gold pants in honor of our awesome players and military jackets inspired by our band can win over all. So, let’s cheer for old Notre Dame and wake up the fashionista’s echoes cheering her name, while our loyal style-setting spirits go fashionably marching onward to our own life’s victories. 



FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 
Sophomore Margeaux Prinster models jersey inspiration. Forever 
21: Brown Fringe Skirt -$19.80, Sweater -$27.80, Burgundy Lace Top - $17.80 
Notre Dame Archive 
Football Jerseys, 1982 
Jersey 
The football jersey has evolved over time. The different phases involved decorative stripes on the arms, as well as the classic number on the jersey. Work a jersey-inspired sweater with an unexpected fringe skirt, and you’ll make college a whole new playing field. 


MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, November 18, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


Irish Guard Plaid 

The Irish Guard makes us swoon. Wear a plaid skirt, and if you’re feel­ing adventurous, add a black fur hat. In this look, the crowds will part just for you. 

Gold Helmets 

Who says only the players are worthy of iconic headgear? Gild yourself in a metallic beanie and a gold scarf. 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Cheerleader Spirit 
Who says cheer-leading can’t be done off the field? A pleated miniskirt 



FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 

gives a cheerlead­er’s extra kick to 

Sophomore Margeaux 
your everyday en-

Prinster gives gilding 
semble. 

a whole new meaning. JC Penny: Gold scarf - $16.99, Gold beanie - $14.99 
FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 
Sophomore Margeaux Prinster kicks it up a notch with cheerleading pleats. 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer 





Blue and Gold 
Make the Fighting Irish’s colors an inspiration for your daily study look. In an outfit like this, how could you not take your own academic game to the next lev­el? 

FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 
Sophomore Margeaux Prinster shows Our Lady’s colors are always in vogue. Forever 21: Gold Pants - $29.80, Blue Sweater - $11.50, Shoes - $12.50 


Notre Dame Archive 
Football players in blue and gold, 1963 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
FELICIA CAPONIGRI/The Observer 
Sophomore Margeaux Prinster shines in gold pants. Mango at JC Penny: Gold pants - $79.90, Black Sweater - $31.99 

Marching Band 
Lapels, gold but­tons and a military-inspired cut? You don’t have to play an instrument to rock this look. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Defending the BCS 
“It is designed to ensure that the two top-rated teams in the country meet in the national champi­onship game…” 
That is how the Bowl Cham­pionship Series (BCS) describes itself. 
And whether you like the BCS or not, that quote is 100 percent accurate. 
Yes, you may debate whether those two are the two most talented teams, but you can say without a doubt, unlike any other sport in America, the two teams in the champi­onship game in college foot­ball are the two teams that performed the best through­out the season. They were the ones who were the most consistent . beginning, middle and end. 
And personally, I think that’s the true definition of “best.” Not the most talented team that doesn’t show up ev­ery week, not the one who gets hot or plays well at the end, but the team who performs at the highest level throughout the entire season. Games in September are just as impor­tant as ones in November and the national championship in January. 
That’s the one thing the BCS does. It makes every game count. Every game. And it’s what makes the entire regular season so great. Every game is a de facto playoff game, whether it be against a weak MAC school or the top two teams in the country, as was the case between LSU and Alabama just a few weeks ago. 
The same cannot be said for college basketball. When Bel­mont had Duke on the ropes last week, people were in­trigued, but even had the Blue Devils lost, they’re still going dancing in March and likely as a high seed. Pittsburgh lost at home by double digits to Long Beach State on Wednesday, but it will have virtually no effect on the Panthers’ sea­son. In the college basketball world, 15 percent of a team’s season means nearly every­thing and 85 percent means almost nothing. The Occupiers might have a problem with that ratio. 
But if LSU or Oklahoma State lost to a weak non-con­ference opponent in football in September, they’re likely out of the national championship race. People may argue this isn’t fair, but I think putting as much emphasis on the early part of the year as the end actually makes things more fair when determining who is the best team over the course of a season. 

Another argument for a playoff is the champion will prove its worth by beating other top teams. This may be true in a smaller playoff, but it’s not the case in a large one. Take Connecticut men’s basketball this past year. They faced zero No. 1-seeds in the NCAA tour­nament and only one No. 2-seed in San Diego State. The rest were No. 4-seeds or lower. 
A playoff is built off the transitive property. Because Connecticut beat Kentucky and Kentucky beat Ohio State, Connecticut would beat Ohio State and is bet­ter. Because Connecticut beat Arizona and Arizona beat Duke, Connecticut would beat Duke and is better. But sports doesn’t work like that. If it did, Michigan State would have lost to Michigan in football this year, because Notre Dame lost to the Wolverines and the Spartans lost to the Irish. 
Now, the BCS isn’t my most preferred method for college football. I would like to see a four-team playoff most, since the No. 3 and No. 4 teams often have a le­gitimate argument to have a chance at the national championship. Even eight teams wouldn’t be terrible, though I’d still rather have the current system. It’s a bit unfortunate that losing one tough conference road game can knock you out. If you’re good enough to be one of the top eight teams in the regular season . meaning you’re undefeated or have one or two losses and a difficult schedule . and then you beat three of the top eight teams in the country at the end, then yes, you are the best team throughout the year. 
But a 16-team playoff? 32 teams? Four-loss teams being let in? 
I’ll keep my wonderful, exciting and, most of all, meaningful four-month sea­son which leaves only the team that was the best from September through January standing, thank you. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu                 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
NFL 


Cubs hire Sveum as manager 
Associated Press 
The Chicago Cubs have hired Dale Sveum as their new manager, hoping the Milwaukee Brewers hitting coach can help turn around the long-suffering franchise. 
The Cubs said Sveum would be introduced at a news con­ference Friday at Wrigley Field. 
Sveum replaces Mike Quade, who was fired by Theo Epstein, the team’s new presi­dent of baseball operations. The Cubs finished 71-91 af­ter a disappointing season that extended their infamous championship drought to 103 seasons. 
Sveum, who turns 48 next Wednesday, has little experi­ence as a manager, other than an interim stint for the Brew­ers late in 2008 after Ned Yost was fired. 
Sveum had competition for the Cubs job. Rangers pitch­ing coach Mike Maddux, Phillies bench coach Pete Mackanin and Indians bench coach Sandy Alomar Jr. all interviewed face-to-face for the spot. Red Sox bench coach DeMarlo Hale was in­terviewed over the phone and former Boston manager Terry Francona pulled himself out of contention. 
Sveum also interviewed for the Red Sox manager’s vacan­cy and met a second time this week with officials from both the Cubs and Boston. 
Sveum -- the name is pro­nounced swaym -- will take over a team that finished fifth in the NL Central and is saddled with big contracts belonging to Carlos Zam­brano and Alfonso Soriano. The Cubs also boast a tal­ented young player in All-Star shortstop Starlin Castro, but have a host of personnel ques­tions to sort through. 
The Cubs’ new manage­ment team comes with a championship pedigree that the new manager knows well: Sveum served as Boston’s third base coach in 2004-05, when Epstein was the general manager. 
At the time, Sveum was of­ten criticized for an aggres­sive approach that led to run­ners being thrown out at the plate. But the coach with the nickname of “Nuts” was part of a championship team and is a believer in the advanced statistical analysis that Chica­go’s new leadership loves and is counting on to build up the farm system. 
“I do my due diligence and video work and prepare as much as anybody,” Sveum said before he was hired. “As far as the stats, those are what they are, and we can use them to our advantage. It’s a big part of the game now. It’s helping us win a lot of ballgames, the stats and the matchups. That’s just part of the game now, and you use what you can.” 


Sveum was a switch-hitting shortstop for the Brewers and had a 25-homer season before his career was slowed after an League last season. With Ryan Braun and Prince Fielder lead­ing the way, the Brewers hit an NL-high 185 homers and were third with a .261 batting average on their way to the NL Central title -- well ahead of the Cubs. 
The past two seasons have bot­tomed out for Chicago. Lou Pini­ella abruptly retired in August 2010 and while Quade stepped in 

outfield colli­sion. In 12 sea­sons with Mil­waukee and six other teams, he batted .236 with 69 home runs and 340 RBIs in 862 games. He was drafted by Milwaukee in the first round (25th overall) in 1982. 
Sveum did well in his lim­ited run as Milwaukee’s manager. After Yost was fired following a 3-11 slide in Septem­
“As far as the stats, those are what they are, and we can use them to our advantage. It’s a big part of the game now.” 
Dale Sveum Cubs manager 
and did well, the Cubs didn’t re­spond as well this season. 
Zambrano was suspend­ed late in the season after another out­burst and is likely gone, even with a year left on his five-year, $91.5 mil­lion contract. There is a po­tential ace in Matt Garza and a prom­ising young 

ber, Sveum led the Brewers to their first playoff appearance in 26 years, winning six of seven down the stretch and capturing the wild card on the final day of the regular season. 
Milwaukee then decided to hire a more experienced man­ager in the offseason and went with Ken Macha, who lasted two seasons. Sveum stayed on as the hitting coach and oversaw one of the best offenses in the National arm in Andrew Cashner. 
First baseman Carlos Pena, a free agent who hit 28 homers with 80 RBIs and a .225 average, would like to come back. Aramis Ramirez, who hit .306 with 26 homers and 93 RBIs, said he plans to explore the free agent market, though there is a mutual $16 mil­lion option on the table. Soriano, who has three years remaining on his deal, batted .244 but did hit 26 homers with 88 RBIs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Athletes Born on this Day:          1962 - Jamie Moyer, Sellersville 1967 - Jocelyn Lemieux,NHL right 1970 - Toby Wright, safety 
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
PA, pitcher wing 1932 - Nasif Estéfano, racing driver 1975 - Jason Williams, basketball 
1963 - Dante Bichette, outfielder 1967 - Tom Gordon, pitcher Investment property in South UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 1938 - Karl Schranz, Austria, 1975 - Shawn Camp, American Bend. 1333 Belmont. New remodel go it alone. Notre Dame has many slalom 1964 - Seth Joyner, NFL linebacker 1968 - Gary Sheffield, Tampa FL, baseball player with new kitchen and bath. (apox. resources in place to assist you. outfielder 1600 SF finished) Paint and carpet If you or someone you love needs 1948 - Jack Tatum, Cherryville NC, 1965 - Mark Petkovsek, Beaumont 1983 - Travis Buck, American new ready to move into. Four confidential support or assistance, NFL defensive back TX, pitcher 1969 - Raghib Ismail, NFL wide baseball player potential bedrooms and a full please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 receiver/kick returner basement. All new appliances. Call or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 1956 - Tony Franklin, NFL kicker 1966 - Darren Flutie, CFL slot back 1988 - Jeffrey Jordan, American Jim 574-329-2368 for a showing information, visit ND’s website 1969 - Sam Cassell, NBA guard college basketball player and more details.&quot; See it at- at:http://pregnancysupport@ 1956 - Warren Moon, NFL 1966 - Ron Coomer, Crest Hill IL, MichianaOnlineRealty.com nd.edu quarterback infielder 1970 - Allen Watson, MLB pitcher Go Irish. Beat Eagles. 
MLB 



Astros will move to American League as part of team sale 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — New Astros owner Jim Crane is promising plenty of changes in addition to the club’s move to the Ameri­can League. 
Baseball owners unanimous­ly approved the long-delayed sale of the team from Drayton McLane to Crane on Thursday, a transaction that requires the franchise to move from the NL Central to the AL West in 2013. 
As part of the Astros’ agree­ment to switch leagues, the sale price was cut from $680 million to $615 million, a person at the owners meetings in Milwaukee told The Associated Press. 
Crane said at a late-after­noon news conference at Min­ute Maid Park that the reported money totals were “fairly accu­rate.” He said the transaction will be completed on Tuesday. 
“We’re focused on bringing a winner back to Houston,” Crane said. “We’ve got a lot of plans.” 


McLane, general manager Ed Wade and president of baseball operations Tal Smith did not at­tend Crane’s news conference, and Crane said he’s planning staff changes after Thanksgiv­ing. 
“From soup to nuts, we’ll sit down with all the executives, ask them what they think we’re doing right, ask them what they think we’re doing wrong,” he said, “and we’ll make some very, very quick adjustments.” 
Crane originally wanted the Astros to stay in the National League, where the franchise has competed since its incep­tion in 1962. But Major League Baseball saw an opportunity to balance the leagues, putting 15 teams in each, and forced Crane and his new team to take the deal. 
“It became evident that the move to the AL was an issue,” Crane said. “We had a trans­action that was done in May, and with that transaction, that changed over time. It was made very clear to us that any­body who owns the team would be moving to the American League.” 
The Astros will be the first team to switch leagues since Milwaukee moved to the Na­tional League after the 1997 season. Houston’s move drew criticism from fans on local ra­dio call-in shows. 
Eddie Fuller, 47, of Houston, an Astros fan who was having lunch at a sports bar on Thurs­day, says he’ll miss the NL style of play. 
“I just like National League baseball better,” Fuller said. “Just take a look at the playoffs, and all the switches you have to make. You have to watch your pitching, you have to watch your bench. I like the way the game has to be managed a lot better.” 

Other fans saw positive as­pects of the move, starting with a natural geographic division rivalry with the Texas Rangers. 
“That replaces — and maybe more than replaces — a rivalry with somebody like the Cardi­nals,” said Mark Leyerle, who was born in Dallas but has lived in Houston for 25 years. 
Crane said he’s already re­ceived letters from season-tick­et holders saying they won’t be renewing. He thinks the com­pletion of the sale will restore some confidence in the product. 
“We’re not going to try to look back, we’re going to try to look forward,” Crane said. “When we get the team turned around and we start winning, hopeful­ly that will be in the rear-view mirror.” 
The Astros joined the major leagues as the Colt .45s. They changed their name three years later to honor the city’s connection to NASA and align with the team’s move into the Astrodome. Since 2000, Hous­ton has played in Minute Maid Park in downtown Houston. 
The franchise achieved un­precedented success with McLane as the owner, with six playoff appearances in a nine-year span, culminating in the team’s only World Series ap­pearance, in 2005. In Milwau­kee, Commissioner Bud Selig saluted McLane, who bought the team in 1992 for $117 mil­lion. 
“Drayton should have a won­derful legacy of what he did for the Astros, got them a new ball­park and did all these things,” Selig said. “He sure left a much better franchise than when he came in.” 


PRESIDENTS CUP 



Woods ends drought as U.S. takes early lead 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Tiger Woods ended his birdie drought at the wind-swept Presidents Cup on Friday with a curling downhill putt that could have gone off the green if it hadn’t hit the cen­ter of the hole. 
Woods, trying to make up for a 7-and-6 foursomes loss with Steve Stricker on Thurs­day in which they failed to make a birdie, saw an easier effort on the first hole of his fourballs match Friday lip out, enabling Jason Day and Aaron Baddeley to halve the hole. 
Woods’ birdie on the fourth, complete with an exagger­ated downward fist pump, gave him and Dustin Johnson a 1-up lead. 
The Americans took a 4-2 points lead into Friday af­ter winning three foursomes matches and halving two Thursday. 
Phil Mickelson and Jim Fu­ryk, who won their opening foursomes match, were 2-up over Adam Scott and K.T. Kim after four holes, as the Americans led in four of six matches and the Internation­als in one. 
Players fought strong, gust­ing wind from the north to northwest, a direction that always toughens the compos­ite layout at Royal Melbourne. 
“On a scale of 1 to 10, I’d give it an 11 today,” Interna­tional captain Greg Norman said about the conditions as the groups teed off. 
The greens became increas­ingly fast, and Bubba Watson witnessed it firsthand on the fourth hole — a group ahead of Woods. Watson’s watched his 20-foot curling birdie putt go past the hole, nearly stop, then continue to roll off the green and into a hollow, about 60 to 70 feet away from him. 
Ernie Els and Ryo Ishikawa won the hole when Simpson missed a 3-footer for par, but the Americans led 1-up when Watson birdied the sixth. Matt Kuchar and Stricker led Y.E. Yang and Robert Al­lenby by the same score af­ter Kuchar birdied the par-3 third. 
Yang hit his approach into the third, then ran quickly up the hill to the green to mark his ball before the wind and hard green combined to send it back down into a hollow. 
Hunter Mahan and Da­vid Toms, who combined for a foursomes win Thursday, were 1-down to the South Af­rican pair of Retief Goosen and Masters champion Charl Schwartzel. Goosen birdied the par-5 second for the early International lead. 
Bill Haas and Nick Watney were all square with the In­ternational’s Geoff Ogilvy and 
K.J. Choi after three holes. 
There was a chance of thunderstorms later Friday afternoon, so officials moved up the start time Friday by two hours. 
The Americans are trying to win the Presidents Cup for the fourth straight time. The Internationals have only won once in eight tournaments — at Royal Melbourne in 1998. 
There are five foursomes and five fourballs matches scheduled Saturday, and 12 singles matches Sunday. There are 34 points awarded, with a team needing 17½ to take the trophy. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 


Bulldogs overtake Aggies 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Mississippi State’s great start wasn’t fool­ing one person — Bulldogs coach Rick Stansbury. 
The Bulldogs hit 10 of their 13 shots from the field in taking a 22-point lead and they hung on for a 69-60 victory over No. 19 Texas A&M on Thursday night in the semifinals of the 2K Sports Classic benefiting Coaches vs. Cancer. 
“That was a little bit of fool’s gold, making five 3s like that,” Stansbury said. “Texas A&M is a good basketball team and I knew we weren’t going to main­tain that kind of shooting. But I did like our defense, we were pushing them out and we con­trolled the flow at both ends.” 
The Bulldogs (3-1) will play No. 15 Arizona in Friday night’s championship game at Madison Square Garden. The Wildcats (4-0) beat St. John’s 81-72. 
Dee Bost had 20 points for Mississippi State and although the senior guard didn’t score in the big run in the first half, he hit a big 3-pointer with 3:16 to play. 
“Dee Bost was hard for us to contain,” Texas A&M coach Bil­ly Kennedy said. “He’s not just a good player, he’s a good four-year player.” 
Naji Hibbert’s drive with 3:37 to play brought Texas A&M (2­
1) within 60-52. Bost hit the 3-pointer 19 seconds later that started the Bulldogs’ 9-4 run that got them back in control of the game. 
Brian Bryant had 12 points for the Bulldogs and freshman Rodney Hood added 10, his third double-figure effort in as many games. 
Elston Turner had 13 points for Texas A&M and David Lou-beau added 11. 
Mississippi State used a 15-0 run to take a 31-9 lead with 
10:11 left in the first half. The Bulldogs couldn’t keep up the torrid shooting and the Aggies were able to close within single digits twice in the first half, the last time on a drive by Turner with 29 seconds left that made it 41-32. 
Mississippi State finished the half 12 for 24, including 5 of 8 from 3-point range, and the Ag­gies, after starting 3 of 14 from the field, shot 42.9 percent for the half (12 of 28). 
“It was tough because we knew what they wanted to do in shooting 3s,” Texas A&M guard Dash Harris said. “We gave up too many open looks at the be­ginning, dug ourselves a hole and we couldn’t come back.” 


The Bulldogs opened the sec­ond half on a 7-0 run to go up 48-32. 
Texas A&M was able to get within eight points but Bost started the deciding run with his second 3-pointer of the game and the Aggies’ only one of the second half. 
Texas A&M was without ju­nior forward Khris Middleton. The preseason All-Big 12 selec­tion had surgery on his right knee Nov. 11 and is expected to miss three to four weeks. 
“Khris is an all-conference player and we need him, but defensively that’s no excuse for how we played,” Harris said. “Defense is team-oriented. We miss Khris and we can’t wait to get him back. When he comes back you’ll see a different team. This isn’t how we play.” 
NFL 



Researchers plan to test former NFL players 

Associated Press 
The researchers studying a degenerative brain disease in former athletes plan to test about 100 retired NFL players to try to learn how to diagnose the condition during life. 
For now, the only way to con­firm Chronic Traumatic En­cephalopathy is by examining brains after death. The Boston University center that has ana­lyzed the brains of more than 70 former athletes is starting a three-year study of living pa­tients. The Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy at BU’s School of Medicine also will recruit 50 retired elite ath­letes from non-contact sports as a comparison group, co-director Robert Stern told The Associat­ed Press on Thursday. 
The first subject completed the two days of extensive testing Wednesday and Thursday. 
Until CTE can be diagnosed during life, it’s impossible to develop treatments or to deter­mine how to prevent it, Stern said. 
“We need answers on this dis­ease really quickly,” he said. 
Co-director Dr. Ann McKee has found CTE in more than 50 former athletes; in the past year alone, the list has included sports stars Dave Duerson of the NFL and Rick Martin of the NHL. Linked to repeated brain trauma, CTE is associated with symptoms such as memory loss, impaired judgment, depression, and, eventually, progressive de­mentia. 
The study, called DETECT, is the first on CTE funded by the National Institutes of Health. The goal is to find differences between the NFL players and the athletes who haven’t expe­rienced repeated blows to the head. 
Subjects are flown into Boston for a wide variety of tests. On the first day, they spend a total of about two hours in scanners at Brigham and Women’s Hospi­tal for different kinds of neuro­imaging. The second day takes place at BU’s medical school and includes a spinal tap, a lengthy psychiatric interview, neuro­logical and cognitive testing and blood work. 
The NFL players must be of­fensive and defensive linemen, linebackers or defensive backs, because those positions involve the most repeated brain trau­ma. The subjects are between the ages of 40 and 69 and suffer from some symptoms associated with CTE. They all had long foot­ball careers to ensure an exten­sive history of blows to the head. Multiple concussions are not a requirement — partly because players may not even know they had a concussion, and partly be­cause the evidence suggests CTE can occur simply through play after play of knocks to the head. 
The NFL and the players’ union are helping the center to contact former players. Stern said the initial response had been “extremely positive.” 
“There’s a sense that former players want to be able to do something to not only poten­tially help themselves but also to help get the research moving quickly to help others in the fu­ture,” he said. 
The athletes in the compari­son group will include retired swimmers and tennis play­ers among others, recruited through college alumni associa­tions and sports leagues. 
“You’d be surprised at how many sports we exclude because we don’t know for sure there’s not a problem,” Stern said, such as distance running, with the jolting of the head at every step. 



SMC BASKETBALL 



Belles to continue non-conference slate 


defeated a “We’ve got a very tough ish, they ranked op-non-conference schedule are hoping ponent on its and that was done by me these early home court. on purpose to prepare season tests 
However, us for conference.” will prepare the Belles’ them for con-challenging ference play. 
Jenn Henley 
nonconfer -“I think 
Belles Coach 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After upsetting No. 25 Wheaton 66-63 in their sea­son opener, the Belles look to carry that momentum on the road at this weekend’s Man­chester Tip-off Tournament. 
By creating turnovers and outrebounding their oppo­nent, the Belles were able to take 26 more shots than the Thunder and claim the victo­ry. Tuesday night’s win over Wheaton was especially sat­isfying as it marked the first game since the 2008-09 season that Saint Mary’s 
ence sched­ule does not stop with Wh eaton. 
They  will  
face  off  against  tourna­ 
ment  host Manchester, who  

is coming off a close, hard-fought loss to Calvin, on Fri­day night. 
“Manchester had the op­portunity to beat Calvin [on Tuesday] night, who is No. 2 or No. 6 depending on what poll you look at in the coun­try,” Belles coach Jenn Hen­ley said. “They are playing very well right now and they are going to have a lot of con­fidence.” 
In the second round, the Belles will meet either No. 16 Denison or Baldwin-Wallace, either of whom will provide a tough contest, Henly said. 
“Traditionally, both teams are very strong,” she said. “Denison made it to the NCAA tournament last year. Baldwin-Wallace is usually top three, top four in their conference, and they’ve been to the NCAA tournament be­fore. There is no weak team in this tournament by any means.” 
With many key players re­turning for the Belles fol­
lowing last 
year’s third-
place con­
ference fin-
just based on the makeup of the com­petition we are going to see is going to prepare us for the conference,” Henley said. “We’ve got a very tough nonconference schedule and that was done by me on pur­
pose to prepare  us for  con­ 
ference.”  
The  tournament  begins  

Friday when the Belles take on Manchester at 8 p.m., fol­lowed by the consolation and championship games Satur­day. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING & DIVING 


SMC looks to maintain momentum at invite 
Observer Staff Report over Defiance College at home. 
The dual meet win marked the 

Saint Mary’s will compete first for Saint Mary’s since the in the Wabash Invitational in 2008-09 season. Crawfordsville, Ind., on Fri-The Belles are currently day and Saturday. winless in MIAA play, and no 
The Belles (1-3, 0-2 MIAA) conference opponents will be enter the competition fresh participating in the meet. off their first win of the sea-Competitions on both days son Saturday, a 152-50 victory will begin at 4 p.m. 

History 
continued from page 20 
when they begin a season. 
“It’s been something that we want to do every time,” Brown said of winning the conference. “We want to be winning the Big East in the regular season or the post season every year, or at least be in a position to do that. It would have been very disap­pointing had we not made the tournament, so we’re happy to be here.” 

Though Notre Dame has con­sistently been one of the Big East’s top-performing schools, Brown said her staff has not made a point of educating the younger players on the program’s tradition. 
“We haven’t specifically sat down with our players and said, ‘Here’s the history, here’s the tra­dition,’” she said. “I think each season is different . you take it one year at a time. We talked about winning the Big East champion­ship from the beginning of the season and here it is already. Sometimes you don’t realize how the season goes by really fast, but this weekend is why we’ve been putting in the effort all year.” 
Notre Dame takes on the Or­ange at 11 a.m. today in the Al McGuire Center at host-school Marquette. 
Should the Irish defeat Syra­cuse, they would face the win­ner of a match between No. 1 Louisville and No. 8 Pittsburgh at 2 p.m. on Saturday. ESPNU will televise the championship match, which begins at 4:30 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Open 
continued from page 20 

with great motivation and en­thusiasm, and I think that we are strongly prepared.” 
Although the team does re­turn many upperclassmen, it will look for several freshmen to play greater roles on the team. This increased reliance on freshmen stems from sev­eral Notre Dame fencers, in­cluding senior Courtney Hur­ley, senior Gerek Meinhardt and sophomore Ariel DeSmet, forgoing this season in an at­tempt to qualify for the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. 
“Although we are los­ing several top fencers to the Olympics, we have many young fencers who would like to prove that they are as equally skilled as their older teammates,” Bednarski said. “There is a real chance for these fencers to show their skills and step in to competi­tions.” 
“Natalie [No­ ible reminder  
vosel] didn’t  for the Irish  
miss a shot in the first half. Her and Brittany were  “I was really pleased with our start tonight. Brittany [Mallory] got us off to a  of the im­portance of a strong de­fense.  
both perfect  great start with those  “ C o a c h  
from the field,  threes.”  preaches get- 
and then Sky- ting out and  
lar shot ex­tremely well. Going into  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  making them u n c o m fo r t -able early,”  
halftime, I felt  Diggins said.  
really good  “That defen­ 

Thus far, some of the un­derclassmen competitors have shown themselves to be quite talented, with Irish fencers racking up several honors last weekend at the United States Fencing Asso­ciation’s North American Cup in Austin, Texas. Among other achievements, freshman Race Imboden finished first in the men’s foil competition and freshman Lee Kiefer took the women’s foil title. 
potential four games. Maryland held the previous record with 58 steals in four games. 
“They want to defend,” Mc­Graw said. “I think they get an­noyed sometimes when we take the press off. There is never a drop off when the bench comes in either. We want the defense to create some easy baskets for us, and we were able to do a little bit of that tonight.” 
Thursday’s blowout was a vis-
Bednarski was pleased with last weekend’s results and said the event allowed several younger fencers to emerge as potential standouts. 
“Individual competitions give fencers the chance to show how they can later be strong fencers for the team,” Bednarski said. “It will be in­teresting to see how they can get experience from these competitions, which will help us in later team competitions.” 
The Garret Open commenc­es at 8 a.m. on Saturday when the women’s team competes and continues into Sunday, when the men’s team begins play. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


Mallory 
continued from page 20 

Hartford, Novosel, Diggins, Mal­lory and sophomore guard Kay­la McBride each contributed 10 or more points. 
“I was really pleased with our start tonight. Brittany [Mallory] got us off to a great start with those threes,” McGraw said. 
reached the semifinals in each appearance and the final game twice, winning the tournament against Ohio State in 2004. 
Baylor secured a spot in the title game after beating No. 22 UCLA 83-50 on Thursday. Notre Dame fell to the Bears 76-65 on Dec. 1, 2010. 
A matchup of the top-ranked teams in the country, the high-intensity game provides Notre Dame a chance to learn more about itself than usual for an early-season matchup. 
“I think it’s going to be in­teresting to see the depth that we have playing against the No. 1 team in the country on the road,” McGraw said. “Only good things can happen. We’re going to find out where we are, especially where our strengths are and where our weaknesses are.” 
The Irish take the Bears’ home court 2 p.m on Sunday. The game will be televised on CBS Sports Network. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

about the way we were shooting the ball.” 
The Irish broke the record for most steals in a WNIT with 69 in just three of the tournament’s sive intensity is what leads to offense. It gives us a lot of mo­mentum to start the game.” 
Including the current run for the WNIT title, the Irish have 



Eagles 
continued from page 20 
is coming off a 5-0 shellacking at the hands of crosstown rival Boston University on Sunday. Despite the loss, Irish coach Jeff Jackson expects the Ea­gles will be ready. 
“[Boston College is] a very good hockey team and they’re going to come in here angry af­ter their game Sunday against [Boston University],” Jackson said. “We have to be prepared for that, too.” 
Jerry York, who has the most wins among all active college hockey coaches, directs the Eagles. Boston College fea­tures first team all-Hockey East junior defenseman Brian Dumoulin and senior captain and defenseman Tommy Cross. 
Despite losing four of their top five scorers from last sea­son, the Eagles currently have six players who have 10 points or more through 12 games, in­cluding junior forward Chris Kreider, who leads the team with eight goals and 16 points. 
“[Boston College is] very skilled, very talented,” Jack­son said. “They have talent on the back end, they have talent up front. They’re explosive. They have one of the best lines in college hockey. They’re just a very fast and skilled hockey team. They do a great job of recruiting to their strengths . speed and skill. That’s not a bad strength to have.” 
Jackson has not yet an­nounced who will start for the Irish in net. After sophomore goaltender Steven Summer-hays came in to relieve junior Mike Johnson against Alas­ka last weekend and led the Irish to a sweep, Jackson put Johnson back in for the win over the Broncos on Tuesday. Jackson indicated he will need to evaluate game tape and performance in practice this week to decide. 
Along with the natural ex­citement a matchup between two top-five teams generates, there will be additional atten­tion at the Compton Family Ice Arena tonight as the building receives its official dedication. 
“We’ve been looking for­ward to this for a while,” Johnson said. “The dedication game is going to be really ex­citing for us to finally meet all the donors and the people that made this place possible. So it’s going to be a really excit­ing weekend, and I think the game’s going to be exciting as well.” 
The Irish and Eagles face off tonight at 7:35 p.m. at the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



Freshman 
continued from page 20 
guy for us,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “He’s going to play whether he’s starting or com­ing off the bench. Certainly you saw by the minutes the other night and how he got go­ing that he’s going to be a key guy for us.” 
Sophomore point guard Eric Atkins missed Wednesday’s victory due to an illness, and Brey said after the game his status is unknown for Friday. Junior forward Joey Brooks, who has also been under the weather, left the game but should not miss any additional time. 
“Joey was in the health center,” Brey said. “He didn’t come to shoot around and then he got out of the health center and got dinged in the head and was a little dizzy, so we expect him to practice.” 
Irish sophomore guard Jer­ian Grant scored 17 points and recorded six assists in the win over Sam Houston State. He is averaging 13 points per game in Notre Dame’s first three contests. 
“I’m really just getting my legs under me, starting to play basketball the way I al­ways did,” Grant said. “I love to pass the ball. I feel like … Whatever I have to do for my team to get the win, I can do it.” 
Notre Dame will take the court without senior forward Tim Abromaitis against Dela­ware State in the fourth and final game of his suspension. 
Hornets freshman guard Tahj Tate is averaging 18.5 points and nine assists per game to lead Delaware State (1-1). The Hornets lost 70-52 to Georgia Tech on Monday. 
The Irish and Hornets will tip-off at 9 p.m. on Friday at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 






THE LONDON EXPRESS 
KELLy LyNCH AND JOE MILLER 

CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, November 18, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
HOCKEY 





Familiar foe 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 

On Oct. 23, 2010, Notre Dame met top-ranked and defending national champion Boston Col­lege at the Joyce Center. With a roster featuring 12 fresh­men, the No. 17 Irish had more questions than answers about their future. But when the Irish ended the Eagles’ 16-game un­beaten streak with a 2-1 win, they realized very quickly the potential they had. 
“When we look back last year, when we played Boston College, that was sort of our turning point as a team,” Irish junior center Riley Sheahan said. “That’s where we came together.” 
Coming off a Frozen Four appearance last season, the expectations will be a bit dif­ferent when No. 4 Notre Dame (8-2-2, 6-1-2-0 CCHA) faces No. 3 Boston College (9-3-0, 7-2­0 Hockey East) tonight at the Compton Family Ice Arena. The Irish enter the matchup riding a three-game win streak and eight-game unbeaten streak after defeating No. 10 Western Michigan 3-2 on Tuesday. 
“Everything is coming to­gether,” Sheahan said. “We’re still not at our peak yet and that’s almost a good thing to know, that we have spots of improvement. We have a great group of guys and everything in the locker room. It’s always a fun time.” 
The Irish look to continue generating that enthusiasm on the ice in front of an already sold-out crowd against the reeling Eagles. Boston College 

see EAGLES/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Victory sets up game between top teams 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The top two teams in the country, No. 2 Notre Dame and No. 1 Baylor, will meet in the Preseason Women’s National Invitational Tournament cham­pionships on Sunday in Waco, Texas. 
Notre Dame’s 98-43 win over Hartford at the Purcell Pavil­ion on Thursday gave the Irish three reasons to celebrate: their play on the court, a new banner and a surprise pre­sentation honoring Irish coach Muffet McGraw’s recent induc­tion into the Women’s Basket­ball Hall of Fame. 
“That was a complete sur­prise to me,” McGraw said. “It was just such an honor to see that banner. It definitely brought tears to my eyes.” 
Against the Hawks, junior guard Skylar Diggins and se­nior guard Natalie Novosel took over on offense for the Irish in the first half. Diggins put up 17 points, and Novosel scored 16 before halftime. Senior Brittany Mallory recorded 12 points and made all four shots from behind the 3-point line in the first half. 
Four of Notre Dame’s players have scored in double-digits in the last three games. Against 
see MALLORY/page 17 
FENCING 

Season begins as team looks to defend title 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame begins the de­fense of its national champi­onship this weekend when it travels to State College, Penn., to compete in the Garret Open at Penn State. 
The Garret Open marks the first NCAA event of the season for the Irish and will feature individual competitions in the epee, foil and saber. Notre Dame will compete against several top teams from around the nation, including Penn State, the team the Irish defeated to win the NCAA championships last spring. 
With Notre Dame starting off against tough competition, Irish coach Janusz Bednar­ski said the weekend will be full of difficult matchups, but remains confident that the team’s preparations will pay off. 
“We are going into the lion cage, and I’m sure that Penn State will try to get their re­venge for the title they lost last year,” Bednarski said. “But the team has practiced 
see OPEN/page 17 
ND VOLLEYBALL 


Fifth-seeded Irish return to conference tourney 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

Today marks the 17th time in as many seasons of conference play the Irish will participate in the Big East tournament. 
Despite losing its last two regu­lar season matches, Notre Dame (15-11, 8-6 Big East) earned the No. 5 seed and will take on No. 4 Syracuse. 
The Orange (19-11, 8-6) earned a higher seed than the Irish de­spite the schools’ identical con­ference records thanks to a 3-1 victory over Notre Dame in the fi­nal match of the regular season. The win clinched a tournament berth for Syracuse on its Senior Day. 
Although her team limps into the postseason, Irish coach Deb­bie Brown said neither motiva­tion nor confidence will be an issue. 
“Both teams will be highly mo­tivated,” she said. “[Syracuse’s] goal wasn’t just to make it to the tournament, either. At this time of year, if teams aren’t highly mo­tivated they will go home pretty quickly. I think both teams ben­efitted being able to play just last weekend and make the adjust­ments you need to make. It’s a good draw for us and we’re con­fident we’ll beat them this time.” 
With history on their side, the Irish have reason to be confident. The program has won nine Big East tournament championships, posting a 29-7 overall record and reaching the final match in 13 of 17 tries. Brown said her squads always aim for a Big East title 
see HISTORY/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND looks to win fourth straight 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Irish return to action today against Delaware State after their blowout win over Sam Houston State on Wednesday. 
Notre Dame (3-0) pulled away from Sam Houston State with a 23-0 run in the first half Wednesday, and the Bearkats never threat­ened again in the 74-41 Irish victory. 
Freshman guard-forward Pat Connaughton paced the Irish with 24 points in 33 minutes and is playing a large role for Notre Dame much sooner than many ex­pected. 
“Pat really built on [his performance against De­troit] and he’s getting very comfortable being a key 
see FRESHMAN/page 18 




