the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Week encourages campus to reduce waste 
Events echo last semester’s initiative from eND Hunger campaign; incentives given to students to throw away less 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Beginning Monday, students presenting a clean tray at the dining halls will have a chance to win a 100 Flex point prize as part of Waste-Free Week. 
A joint initiative by Food Services, the Office of Sustainability and Student Government’s eND Hunger campaign, the Week seeks to raise awareness about campus food waste. 
“While there is still waste on campus, I think the students are doing a great job with reducing the amount of food and liquids we are wasting,” Food Services representative Elizabeth Davis said. “After seeing the results from the fall, I was so happy with how much we were able to decrease the level of waste.” 
Representatives will be sta­tioned at the dish-collection lines 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Monday and Friday in North Dining Hall and all week in South Dining Hall. Students can join the “Clean Plate Club” and receive a ticket as entry to the Flex point raffle. 
Davis said she hopes the Week will encourage students to further reduce their waste level, which fell last semester following Waste-Free Wednesdays, a similar initia­tive. 
Last semester, dining hall waste fell from 6.27 ounces per meal to just 3.11 ounces per meal. Davis said measure­ments will be taken following Waste-Free Week to determine if waste had been reduced fur­ther. 
“We will be conducting a ‘Waste n Weigh’ April 7th to see if we were able to decrease that number,” she said. “With No-Impact Week coming up April 2 to April 8, we wanted to start if off with not wasting as much food.” 
Davis said most food waste is a result of students uninten­tionally taking too much food at meals. 
“It can be so easy to waste, especially when you come in super hungry and grab too much food or don’t like what you ended up grabbing,” she said. 
As easy as it is to waste food, Davis said individual students being more conscientious can lead to significant waste ­reduction. 
“I think there is this miscon­ception, whether it is with wasting food, water or energy, that it is difficult for one per­son to make an impact,” she 
see WASTE/page 7 


RACE FOR RESEARCH 




Team cycles to support funds to find NPC cure 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame cycling team sped across wide, flat courses Sunday in downtown South Bend, racing against other colleges in support of the Ara Parseghian Medical Foundation in its battle against Niemann-Pick Type C dis­ease (NPC). 
The Notre Dame cycling team hosted the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Race two years ago, though this year marked the first time it was a fundraising event, sophomore cyclist and weekend coordinator Jospeh Magro said. The idea to partner with the Foundation and raise money for its research began when news of Dean Crawford’s Desert to Dome ride surfaced last summer. College of Science dean Gregory Crawford and his wife Renate rode 2,300 miles from Tucson to Notre Dame. 

“After he arrived in South Bend, we met a number of times and brainstormed ways the Cycling Team could continue his fight against NPC,” Magro said. 
The Foundation was established in 1994 after legendary Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian lost grandchildren to the disease. NPC is a genetic, neu­rodegenerative disorder that causes progressive deterioration of the nervous system in children, Magro said. No effective treat­ment for NPC has been discov­ered. 
After deciding to tie a benefit function to the team’s home race, Magro contacted the head of the Parseghian Foundation. Through pledges made by friends, family and faculty, the athletes’ perform­ance in the team trial and road race over the weekend raised 
money to fund research and 
develop treatments for NPC. 
“We represent not only our­
selves but the University and the 
Parseghian Foundation, so when 
we ask for pledges we have to be 
as knowledgeable as possible,” he 
said. “To prepare for our work 
with the Parseghians, all [Notre 
Dame] riders have spent time 
learning about both NPC and the 
Foundation.” 
Magro said team members felt 
lucky to have been given the 
opportunity to apply their skills 
see CYCLE/page 7 



University suspends program 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame suspended the remainder of its international program in Nagoya, Japan, in the wake of the country ’s March 11 earthquake, tsuna­mi and subsequent nuclear crisis, the University announced Friday in a press release. 
The Office of International Studies informed the two Notre Dame students partici­pating in the Japanese study abroad program of the deci­sion in a letter last week. The letter said the decision to cancel the program was “very difficult,” but the sus­pension was necessary “due to the deteriorating environ­mental conditions around Tokyo and ongoing uncertain­ty about the stability of the nuclear power plant.” 
The program administra­tors said they regretted the necessity of interrupting the students’ semester abroad, but that “safety and well ­being are our top priorities,” according to the press 
see JAPAN/page 7 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Donors give SMC $10 million page 3  Viewpoint page 8  Scene picks Youtube stars page 10  Fencing wins eighth national championship page 20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, March 28, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITOR: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Allan Joseph 
Nicole Toczauer Sam Gans Graphics Matthew Melissa Kaduck DeFranks 
Photo Viewpoint 
Dan Jacobs Meghan Scene Thomassen Ankur Chawla 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: DO YOU WANT TO WA K AROUND THE  AKES? 






Ali Rotella  Chris Grant  Claire LaRosa  Erin Killmurray  Trey Hasking  
freshm an  freshm an  freshm an  freshm an  freshm an  
Farley  Zahm  Lew is  Farley  M orrissey  
“D epends on  “I’m  not  “I’m  never  “In general?”  “I’llrun.”  
w ho I’m  w earing  w earing  
w alking w ith.”  m atching  m atching socks,  
socks.”  so yes.”  


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer Siegfried residents sophomore Joey Sweede, left, and junior Tony Dang play football with other members of their dorm Friday evening on North Quad. Many students enjoyed the afternoon and evening outdoors because of warmer temperatures. 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Today and Tuesday the “Women Writers Festival Does Nonfiction” will be held in McKenna Hall, starting at 
7:30 p.m. The event will fea­ture two writers reading selec­tions from their works each night. The event is free and open to the public. 
The lecture, “Populism in the Andean Region: From Erosion to Breakdown of Democracy,” will be held Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center Room C103, starting at 
12:30 p.m. Rene Antonio Mayorga, Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow, will give the lecture. The event is free and open to the public. 
The first of three “Emotional Strategies Sessions” will be held Tuesday in Room 307 of St. Liam Hall from 4 p.m. to 5 
p.m. “Feel Better Fast” is the theme of Tuesday’s session, with other sessions focusing on stress, depression and anxi­ety. The sessions are free. 
International Student Services and Activities will be hosting “A Sweet World” in the LaFortune Ballroom Tuesday from 6:30 p.m. to 
8:30 p.m. Desserts from around the world will be served, and attendees can also participate in various interna­tional activies. The event is free. 
Jerry Greenfield, co-creator of Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream, will lecture Tuesday in Jordan Auditorium from 7 p.m. to 8 
p.m. The event is free, and free ice cream will be avail­able after the talk while sup­plies last. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
OFFBEAT 
Wisconsin-based team wins Goldberg competition 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A team from the University of Wisconsin-Stout that created a contraption capable of watering a plant in 135 easy steps has for the second straight year won Purdue University’s annual Rube Goldberg contest. 
The plant-watering machine devised by the team from Menomonie, Wis., told the story of a deserted Louisiana estate where ghosts come to life with the full moon. 
Captain Andrew Behnke of Loyal, Wis., said the team composed mostly of education and business majors devel­oped a storyline that drove the steps for the handcrafted machine. 
The competition is named for the late cartoonist Rube Goldberg, known for his drawings of whimsical, com­plicated devices performing simple tasks. 
Goldberg’s granddaughter, Jennifer George, attended Saturday’s competition and called it thrilling. She said, “I know my grandfather is here in spirit.” 
Maine outdoes Pennsylvania with massive whoopie pie 
SOUTH PORTLAND, Maine 
— They’ve made whoopie in Maine. A big whoopie pie. 
In an effort to outdo Pennsylvania, a Maine radio station teamed up with a whoopie pie maker to create a massive one topping the scales at 1,067 pounds Saturday. 
State Reps. Paul Davis and Emily Cain, sponsors of a bill to declare the whoopie pie Maine’s official “treat,” were on hand as it was assembled at the Maine Mall in South Portland. 
The idea was to outdo Pennsylvania, where people created a 250-pound whoopie pie in September at an annual festival in Lancaster County. 
“We’re just stealing the title from them,” said Randi Kirshbaum, program director of WMGX, a radio station that teamed up with a business called Wicked Whoopies to make the huge treat. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESDAY Thursday FRIDAY 
LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Letter to the Editor “Looking forward to a tight topic at God Debate II” in the March 25 issue of The Observer, a quote was incorrectly attributed. The letter’s author, Mary Buechler, submitted the 




quote properly cited. The Observer regrets this error. 
LOW 23 LOW 23 LOW 28 LOW 29 LOW 32 LOW 33 

Monday, March 28, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SMC receives $10 million 
By MONA RODRIGUEZ 
News Writer 
On Saturday, the Biology and Chemistry departments of Saint Mary’s joined the College in “Celebrating the Education of Women in Science” in honor of the 150 years of science instruction at the College. The function was followed by an announcement made by Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney of a $10 million gift for the renovation of the science building. 
The day of celebration was open to the public, prospec­tive Saint Mary’s students interested in the sciences, alumnae, faculty and stu ­dents. The morning began with 35 graduating seniors showcasing their senior com­prehensive posters (comps) in the science building. 
“Today was a way to show what we do here at Saint Mary’s. Senior comps are something we do that most other schools don’t, and I see it putting me at an advan­tage,” Anne Lamb, a senior biology major, said. “When I interviewed for vet school at Ohio State, they were inter­ested specifically in my comp.” 
Laura Powell, a senior biol­ogy major, titled her comp “Stress Indication: Behavioral, Hematological, and Hormonal Responses of Dogs in the Public Animal Shelter.” 
“I feel so much more confi­dent about my research and findings because I was able to discuss my project with so many different people,” Powell said. “It was great to get such positive feedback from faculty, students and parents, and to talk about a project I am so passionate about.” 
“Showing a comp was fulfill­ing and an account of all our hard work,” senior Sharon Ehret said. “To take a step back and see what I’ve done 
— it’s thanks to Saint Mary’s for helping me get here.” 
Ehret researched the effects of circadian rhythms on bitter taste sensitivity. 
A panel discussion titled “Life After Senior Comps” gave students an insight on different paths taken after graduation with a science degree from Saint Mary’s and how Saint Mary’s has pre­pared them for their futures. 
“It was very encouraging to see the finished product of Saint Mary’s,” Abby Vrable, a senior biology major, said. “The people who spoke and the women I met today are women I envision myself being [like].” 
Dr. Sharon A. Norton, direc­tor of Development for the Mathile Institute for the Advancement of Human Nutrition, gave the keynote lecture, “The Making of the Scientist.” 
“There’s more to the making of a scientist than science,” Norton said. “Empathy, vision, courage, passion and stew­ardship are fundamental to the making of a scientist.” 
Norton encouraged students to believe empathy and objec­tivity can and should work together. 
Senior biology major Ashley Cook finished with her classes last semester and came back for the day to showcase her comp, “Fish and Coral Surveying off the coast of Little Corn Island, Nicaragua,” and to attend the day’s events. 
“I was inspired by all these people who have achieved all these great things. I hope that’s me someday,” Cook said. “It was a great network­ing day. I received great advice, and this has opened doors preparing for the future.” 
After months of keeping the big announcement a secret, President Carol Ann Mooney announced two special gifts to the college — $1 million from alumna Jennifer Mathile Prikkel (’95) and $9 million from Prikkel’s parents, MaryAnn and Clayton Mathile. 
“This is the largest single gift in the College’s history, and the money has been donated specifically for sci­ence hall renovations,” Mooney said. 
“There’s no better way to invest than in the education of women, especially here at Saint Mary’s,” Prikkel said. 
Contact Mona Rodriguez at mrodri01@saintmarys.edu 



Business students compete in Chicago 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 

The Notre Dame chapter 
of Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE) will par­ticipate in a regional com­petition in Chicago today, its first as an official Student Activities Office (SAO) club, senior Caitlin Nichols, co -president of SIFE, said. 
SIFE is an international, non -profit organization that works to mobilize col­lege students to make a dif­ference in their communi­ties, while developing skills to help members become socially responsible busi­ness leaders. 
Nichols said the team has been involved in seven dif­ferent projects this year and will present four of 
t h o s e  p r o j e c t s  a t  t h e  
regional competition.  
“Some of them  are SIFE  

stand alone projects, such as raising awareness about the local Purple Porch Co­op to the Notre Dame com­munity, or the Global Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Luncheon, which raised awareness about several companies ’ CSR strate ­gies,” she said. 
The club has also part­nered with the Holy Half Marathon and Bengal Bouts to assist in their fundrais­ing strategies and spread awareness of the projects at the regional competition, Nichols said. 
“We’ve had several meet­ings this month preparing 
our scripts that we are memorizing that tell the judges about our projects,” she said. “We also have put together a PowerPoint to accompany our 24-minute presentation and an annual report summing up what we have done.” 
Nichols said the group is optimistic about their per­formance at this year ’s event, where they will com­pete against 80 other teams. 
“Last year we received the Regional Champion and Rookie of the Year titles,” she said. “We’re really hop­ing to receive the Regional Champion title again.” 
If named regional cham­pions, the group will move on to the national competi­tion in May. 
Students interested in joining Notre Dame’s SIFE team may contact Nichols 
or co -president Lauren Sullivan. 
“We are always looking for new members and new project ideas, ” Nichols said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 28, 2011 Monday, March 28, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 




Army cadets rough out field training exercises 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Three Blackhawk helicop­ters descended on South Bend Airport Friday to transport the Army ROTC Fightin’ Irish Battalion to Fort Custer in Michigan, where the cadets joined other ROTC battalions for a field training exercise (FTX). 
Taking off in Blackhawks was an auspicious start to a very important weekend for the cadets in the battalion, according to senior cadet Christopher Bennet. Seniors handle the planning and organizing of the FTX and the juniors take part in the exer­cise, along with a few under­classmen. 
For the junior cadets, the FTX was a big part of their preparation for the Leader Development and Assessment Course (LDAC) they will be complet­ing this summer at Fort Lewis, Wash. 
“This weekend is a dress rehearsal for the thirty days the cadets will spend at Fort Lewis this summer,” Lieutenant Colonel Jon Crist said. 
According to Crist, the LDAC is an important factor in a cadet’s national ranking and eventual job when they enter the army as a second lieu­tenant. 
While packing supplies for the weekend, juniors expressed enthusiasm about putting the skills they’ve learned into practice. 
“It should be a lot of fun. It’s good training for what we will actually be doing in the army,” Saint Mary’s junior Jane McNaughton said. “I’m looking forward to going to the FTX in helicopters instead of the minivans we usually use.” 
“I’m excited to get some much needed experience before this summer,” junior Trevor Waliszewski, Sergeant Major in charge of all juniors and upperclassmen, said. “It will be a real life experience of what it takes to lead sol­diers.” 
However, the cadets showed concern over the fact they won’t have time for academics over the weekend. 
“It’s going to be a full week­end,” junior Josh Sandler said. “I’m excited for the opportunity to apply the things we’ve been learning, but at the same time, our classes don’t stop. In three words I’d describe it as worth­while, but inconvenient.” 
The few underclassmen that 


Cadets rode in a Blackhawk helicopter Friday to Fort Custer, Mich., to complete field 
training exercises with other ROTC battalions. 

participated are also training  enthusiastic about the chance  
for the LDAC, but won’t go  to ride in a helicopter, which  
through the course until they  for many of them was a first.  
are juniors.  “ We fo u nd o ut a b ou t t he  
Meanwhile, seniors gained  Blackhawks on Monday and  
valuable experience planning  I’ve been excited since then,”  
and coordinating the types of  sophomore Mike Dompierre  
drills they will be in charge of  said. “It’s my first time riding  
as second lieutenants, Bennet  in a helicopter.”  
said.  The cadets almost had the  
Before departing, the cadets  opportunity to take a group  
took many pictures in front of  picture with an unexpected  
t h e B l a c kh awk s a nd wer e  visitor at the airport: former  
University of Florida football  
coach Urban Meyer, who was  
only able to take a few quick  
photos with individuals before  
leaving. Meyer attended the  
2011 Coaches Clinic at the  
Loftus Sports Center Saturday.  
T h e f l i g h t cr ew o f e a c h  
Blackhawk then briefed the  
cadets on helicopter safety  
procedures, Bennet said. This  
included the strange but seri­ 
ous requirement that if any  
cadet gets sick, they must pull  
the front of their shirt over  
their mouth, which prevents  
their fellow cadets and the  
helicopter from needing to be  
cleaned.  
Once the cadets arrived at  
Fort Custer, they were joined  
by fel l ow stu d e n t s f ro m  
Western M ichi ga n, Central  
Michigan, Eastern Michigan,  
Michigan State and Michigan.  
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  All of the cadets were placed  
into units of about 10 cadets  
each, Bennet said. Working  

with cadets from other schools, the juniors learned skills that should help them in their preparation for the LDAC this summer, where they will also be working in mixed units. 
Over the course of the week­end, the cadets completed six simulated missions with their assigned units, he said. To ensure that all junior cadets had an opportunity to lead, each unit was composed of five or six junior cadets with underclassmen making up the rest of the unit. 
The missions included move-to-contact drills in which cadets simulate a strategic rendezvous, ambush drills, land navigation drills in which cadets use a map, compass and protractor to navigate the woodland terrain and other standard tactical drills. 
The cadres from each bat­talion evaluated cadets, he said. The criteria for evalua­tion were leadership, deci­sion-making and operating under pressure. During the LDAC, cadets will be evaluat­ed on the same criteria, as well as physical fitness and various military skills. 
Between their own review and the evaluations of the cadres, the cadets received a good idea of what to work on for this summer. Senior Colin Raymond, who completed essentially the same FTX last year, said this experience is very helpful for getting an idea of how other schools pre­pare their cadets and seeing the relative strengths and weaknesses of the Fightin’ Irish Battalion. 
According to Raymond, it was also good for individuals to work on their weaknesses. 
“Personally, I struggled with land navigation at night,” Raymond said. “It was a good opportunity to get more prac­tice at that.” 
Senior Alex Barbuto, the battalion’s operations and training officer, or S3, took the lead in planning the exer­cise. He consulted last year’s plan and incorporated sugges­tions and requirements from Crist and from Michigan State’s Army ROTC, which was in charge of the weekend overall. 
Barbuto and the other sen­iors then took the plan and addressed the logistical needs of the cadets from the Fightin’ Irish Battalion that participat­ed in the exercise. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 28, 2011 


Studentleaderspromote diversity conference 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
This Tuesday marks the start of Saint Mary’s three-day Student Diversity Board’s Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC). 
“By attending the Diverse Student Leadership Conference events, students as well as other community members will have the opportunity to gain knowledge and awareness of various aspects of diversity,” Kelly Reidenbach, chairperson of “Gender and Environmental Justice: Local and Global Perspectives” in Earley confer­ence room F of the Student Center. 
The speech begins at 9 a.m., followed by the “Hue-man Being Project” by Betty Hoeffner, co-founder and presi­dent of Hey U.G.L.Y (Unique, Gifted, Lovable You), Inc. The next session, which begins at 
10:45 a.m. will discuss the issues of gender in baseball, sexual orientation and race, and will feature such speakers 
as John Kovach, member of the advisory board 

DSLC, said. “By attending the and coach of “Furthermore, Diverse Student Baseball For All, they will be able as well as repre-
Leadership
to take the sentatives from 
conference events, 
knowledge and the SMC Straight skills gained students as well as and Gay from participa-Alliance. 
other community
tion and apply An Alumnae 
members will have
them to aspects Panel will follow of daily life.” the opportunity to at 12:15 p.m. in 
The week Vander Vennet 
gain knowledge and
begins with Theater. 
awareness of various
opening keynote Thur sday ’s speaker Dr. Inge aspects of diversity.” session begins at Auerbacher, a 9 a.m. in Earley Holocaust sur-conference room 
Kelly Reidenbach 
vivor. Her D of the Student 
DSLC chairperson 
s e e c h Center with the 
p, “Beyond the Yellow Star,” will be present­ed in the Stapleton Lounge at 7 p.m. 
According to Danae Jimenez, DSLC co-chair, the DSLC board has been working on planning this conference since the sum­mer of 2010. Both she and Reidenbach are very excited about the event. 
“I am extremely excited for this year’s conference,” Reidenbach said. “I have had the help of a great group of Saint Mary’s students who put in a tremendous amount of time and hard work in order to insure that this conference will be the best it can possibly be.” 
On Wednesday, a variety of workshop sessions will begin at 9 a.m. 
To kickoff Wednesday’s events, assistant professor of political science and women’s studies Sonalini Kaur Sapra will discuss a topic titled speech “Cultures 
of Parenting: 
Class Dynamics and the Family” by Mary Ann Kanieski, assistant professor of sociology. 
The Conference concludes with keynote speaker Eric Alva, a Retired Staff Sergeant of the U.S. Marine Corps and a Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay, Transgender and Questioning (LBGTQ) activist. His speech, “Ending ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’” will take place at noon in Little Theater. This is the only event that requires a tick­et for admittance. 
Reidenbach says students will be visiting from as far away as California to attend the events. 
The conference is free and open to everyone, and invita­tions have been sent to sur­rounding high schools. 
Contact Catilin Housley at chous101@saintmarys.edu 


Monay, March 28, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Cycle 
continued from page 1 
toward helping this cause. 
“Like most ND students I think, giving back to the community is something that myself, and the rest of the team, value,” he said. 
Magro said that on a personal level the races and their relation to research for NPC is very impor­tant to him. 
“NPC has been called ‘chil­dren’s Alzheimer’s’ as it primarily affects kids,” he said. “Alzheimer’s has definitely touched my family, and any breakthrough in NPC research that could lead to a similar one for Alzheimer’s would be awe­some.” 
In addition to working with the Foundation, the cycling team has prepared for racing since early December. This home race, Magro said, is just one stop in the collegiate cycling calendar this year. 
“We compete all across the Midwest throughout the spring with the goal of qualifying for the National Championships in early May,” he said. “Our advanced rid­ers put in 15 hours or more a week on the bike.” 

Dean Crawford opened the weekend’s three events in down­town South Bend, beginning with a team time trial. In the time trial, teams of four riders from each school covered a 10-mile course around Potato Creek State Park. Road Races dominated Saturday afternoon, ranging in length from 27 to 66 miles. 
Sunday closed with the feature event, a short track race held in downtown South Bend. Michigan, Michigan State, Ohio State, Purdue and Marian competed in the weekend’s events. 
“The course is wide and flat as a pancake, which equals speed, so racing is exciting,” Magro said. 
The most challenging part of preparing for this weekend was planning the event itself due to its complex interface of individuals working together, Magro said. Since last fall, race organizer Douglas Ansel communicated with the city of South Bend, Indiana, Notre Dame and police paramedics. 
“We expected over 200 colle­giate riders to compete through­out the weekend, and making sure everything ran without a hitch was no small task,” Magro said. 
Though the weekend’s events have passed, anyone can continue to support the Parseghian Foundation. Magro said the 
An initiative of student body 
online process takes only a few 

president Catherine Soler and 

Waste 
minutes and continues the ND 

vice president Andrew Bell, 
cycling team’s efforts. 

continued from page 1 eND Hunger emphasizes stu­
“Simply visit parseghian.org 

dent collaboration with com-
and click the ‘donate now’ button 

munity members to tackle the 
on the main page. It will guide 

said. “Students are really issue of hunger in the South 
you through the pledge process,” 

making that shift to help Bend area. The initiative has 
Magro said. “Please be sure to 

reduce waste.” been working through the 
note the gift is being made in 

Beth Simpson, chair of the West Side Food Security 
honor of ND cycling.” 

eND Hunger campaign, said Council on a number of proj­
on -campus ects, including 
The weekend’s dedication to 
the Ara Parseghian Foundation is 

waste-reduc-plans for a 
one of many examples of Notre 

tion offers community 
Dame’s ties with the Parseghian 

students a nutrition cen­
“Opportunities to impact
way to con-ter based 
Foundation. Last year, the 

hunger by means of food
Foundation established the $2.5 

tribute to the around the 
greater fight justice are not limited to existing
million Michael, Marcia and 

against farmer’s mar-
Christa Parseghian Endowment 

the council or 
for Excellence. It dedicated 

hunger-relat-ket. 
volunteering, but can be
$500,000 to support an annual 

edissues. “We’ve 
“In terms of implemented through begun our ini­
scientific conference at Notre 
Dame. 

tangible ways simple daily choices.” tial survey 
Magro said he is hopeful for 

students can phase, mainly 
what might come from this bond. 

have an con ducti ng
Beth Simpson
“Actually, a Notre Dame pro­

active impact surveys among 
on food inse-eND Hunger campaign chair west side resi­
fessor made a large breakthrough dents about 


the informa ­
tion they cur­rently have about the farmer’s market, which we hope to expand to a year-round mar­ket,” Simpson said. “[The cen­ter] would likely involve a kitchen as well for education. That remains a big part of it.” 
Currently, about 25 students are directly involved in one of eND Hunger’s five subcommit­tees, which focus on issues such as campus and communi­ty engagement, financing and research. Simpson said even if students aren’t directly work­ing with the program, they still have the opportunity to contribute to hunger-preven­tion. 
“Opportunities to impact hunger by means of food jus­tice are not limited to the council or volunteering, but can be implemented through simple daily choices,” she said. 
Despite originating as a Soler-Bell initiative, Simpson said eND Hunger would con­tinue after the nearing student government turnover. 
“Though it was started as a year-long initiative, the eND Hunger initiative is going to be lasting and we’re looking for­ward to progressing it into next year,” she said. “Our vision spans long into the future, and we’re still in the groundwork steps.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Japan 
continued from page 1 
release. 
The Nagoya program oper­ates in conjunction with the Center for Japanese Studies at Nanzan University, located roughly 250 miles southwest of Sendai, the coastal city nearest to the earthquake’s epicenter and the Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Fukushima. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association announced that a Mass for the victims of the earthquake and tsunami will be celebrated at 5:15 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. University president Fr. John Jenkins will preside and deliver the homily at the Mass, and the association will take a spe­cial collection for aid efforts in Japan by Catholic Relief Services. 
The University announced it canceled its other Japanese program, based in Tokyo, for the remainder of the spring semester on March 18. 
in NPC research earlier in the week,” he said. “So it’s exciting to be a small part of what looks to be a large success to come.” 
For the University’s students, this relationship allows another chance to give back to the com­munity. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

curity and food justice, their own consumption is most basic,” Simpson said. “Just being con­scious everyday of how much food we waste ... lesser waste on one end means resources can be better directed to peo­ple who don’t have the ability to waste food.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, March 28, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I guess this is growing up... 
April 23, 2011. A day that will live in infamy ... as the day my teenage dream died, otherwise known as my 20th birth­day. 
At this point, I’m feeling pretty ambiva­lent about leaving the carefree realm 
Kristen Durbin 
of teenagedom in 26 days. On the bright side, I will claim Assistant imminent victory News Editor over teen pregnan­cy, and I’ll look back fondly on my teenage years with the per­spective of a newly minted “young adult.” On the other hand, I’ll be almost two years removed from high school and one year closer to venturing out into the dreaded “real world,” and I won’t be able to blame my mistakes on teenage naivete. 
Either way I look at it, the question remains: how can I make the most of my last month of being 19? I’ve been trying to think of things to do that only teenagers get away with, like driving my friends around town with only a learner’s permit, sneaking out late at night, or try­ing to get into rated R movies before you’re 17. Unfortunately, the novelty of these typical teenage shenanigans wore off once I turned 18 and became a “legal” adult who could do any of these things without fear of punishment by the police or my parents. I can’t really understand why being a teenager was so much fun, other than experiencing the thrill of breaking my parents’ rules, get­ting my driver’s license and having virtu­ally no worries besides getting into col­lege (ah, those were the days). But at the same time, I’m having trouble finding anything exciting to look forward to in turning 20. 
Sure, I’ll be one year closer to celebrat­ing the biggest birthday milestone of my life so far, and I can officially mark the end of my childhood (a bittersweet moment). I can also look forward to cele­brating the big 2-0 with a Cubs game and an Arcade Fire concert over Easter break, both of which I’m pretty jazzed about. But turning 20 is like living in limbo between the worry-free days of adolescence and the daunting responsi­bilities of adulthood. Plus, you don’t get any special privileges when you hit 20. Hence my ambivalence about commemo­rating the first two decades of my life. 
Honestly, I’m scared to turn 20. When I was younger, I always thought 20 sound­ed old, almost old enough to get married and have kids. Now, on the brink of that ripe old age, all I want is to freeze time. I don’t want to think about applying to medical school soon or living away from my parents in the real world. I also don’t want to consider the fact that my college experience is nearly halfway over. I just want to relive my carefree high school summers again. 
As I look at the half-empty glass of my life, I realize I have a lot to look forward to after I turn 20. I’ll be spending my first full summer away from home while par­ticipating in an SSLP in Idaho. Best of all, in less than six months, I will be sipping sangria and tasting tapas while studying abroad in Toledo, Spain, and I can cavort around Europe for an entire semester. 
In the meantime, I’ll spend the next month embracing my carefree, slightly reckless teenage side in any way possible while keeping a positive outlook for my 21st year of living ... and the birthday celebration that will commemorate it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kristin Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
The fencing team psychologist has told us many times about the process of “going home” — closing your eyes and imagining yourself at the thresh­old of home, taking a few steps in and imagining where you are, taking in the details, the smells, and the sounds. Then you go into your room, opening the door realizing that this is your home. Then you fall on your bed, Alex Coccia calm and relaxed. 

Shard of Glass 
The idea of “going home” is a common one. There is a sense of peace. I always smile when Notre Dame students, myself included, say, “Sure, I'll be over soon, I just have to run home for a second.” Home is certainly not just where you grew up. It can be any place where, when you arrive, there is a sense of a burden falling off your shoulders. This place can also be as big as a city — driving on the high­way and seeing the sign saying your city is 5 miles away — or an individ-
Going home 
ual home, or as small a place as your own bed with the covers pulled over your face. 
Taking in the feeling of your blan­
kets or flipping your pillow to the cool 
side are all examples of going home. 
We see literary examples of “going 
home.” In Richard Lovelace’s poem, 
“To Althea, from Prison,” the speaker 
says, “Stone walls do not a prison 
make; / Nor iron bars a cage. / Minds 
innocent and quiet take / That for an 
hermitage; / If I have freedom in my 
love / And in my love am free, / 
Angels alone, that soar above, / Enjoy 
such liberty.” For the speaker, home 
is being free in love and soul, not 
dependent on the physical location. 
The physical location of home — city, 
house, bed — can help to bring about 
a state of mind that can also be con­
sidered “home.” Home is peace. For 
some people, the actual, physical 
home is not peaceful. 
But for everyone, there is a mental 
home that provides a sanctuary, a 
place of repose. From there you can 
reload, repose, and respond. 
When Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote 
his Letter from a Birmingham Jail he 
was certainly home, and like the 
speaker in Lovelace's poem, free in 
love and soul:”I can assure you that it would have been much shorter if I had been writing from a comfortable desk, but what else can one do when he is alone in a narrow jail cell, other than write long letters, think long thoughts and pray long prayers?” Only at home could King have crafted such an eloquent and profound response to the violence and discrimi­nation in Birmingham and the rest of the country. Prison bars did not con­fine. 

The things in our lives that act as prison bars and stone walls have the power to both confine us, or be a place of refuge. The deciding factor is whether or not you are home in that place or in that endeavor. As the semester nears the end and exams and papers are due in all classes, it becomes even more important to go home. As studies become hard, go home. As problems arise, go home. Once home, it is a stepping off point to move forward calm and collected, with eager and keen mind, ready to face whatever lies ahead. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


POLL OF THE WEEK 
Who do you think is going to winthe NCAA men’s championship? 
Kentucky Connecticut VCU Butler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Hate no one; hate their vices, not themselves.” 
J. G. C. Brainard 
U.S. lawyer, editor and poet 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Monday, March 28, 2011 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A defense for college students 
Not far removed from ND, I argued while I was there and continue to argue that the higher powers at ND have created a culture of drinking that are con­stantly putting the kids in tough situations. 
Let’s get this out of the way first: college kids are going to drink. College kids with big time football pro­grams (tailgating), living in nowhere Indiana, have a stressful academic environment are even more likely to drink. 
Because of stricter rules over the last 10 to 15 years, students who do decide to drink will typically do so off campus. Dorm parties are risky and can only have beer. Those who are above 21 prefer to not attend because of all the underage students there. 
Because of the restrictions and fear of dorm parties students hit off-campus parties and, while drunk, have to either walk back through the cold or mean streets of South Bend or hope they get a cab, which are often in very high demand and short supply. 
Their third option is driving when they shouldn’t. Plenty of people I knew while there did it often (myself not excluded). We were just lucky to not get caught. 
Some simple changes could really help this: 
1. Alcohol free dorms students can choose to live in. 
2. 
Revert back to the more lenient drinking rules to keep kids on campus. 

3. 
A shuttle for students that circles the nearby neighborhood and downtown. We do this on game-day and plenty of other schools do it for students throughout the week or on weekends. 


I love Notre Dame and my time there. I would be curious to know the amount of thefts, muggings, injuries, etc. that have occured to intoxicated stu­dents off campus after the culture became more strict. It is also worth mentioning that students are forced to deal with South Bend police who, and this is no secret, have it out for ND students. The school needs to realize that the students drink, and they are doing more harm than good. 
Jared Galvan 
alumni Pittsburgh, PA Mar. 25 

Where’s the meat? 
I’d like to begin by thanking the University Food Services for their steadfast dedication to Catholic teachings on abstinence and fasting. Typically, on Fridays in Lent abstinence from meat or other foods ought to be observed, and the dining halls have been very committed to following this cus­tom by not serving any meat during this time. I would like to note, however, that March 25 is also recognized as a great feast day — the Solemnity of the Annunciation of the Lord. 
Canon law states: 
“Abstinence from meat, or from some other food as determined by the Episcopal Conference, is to be observed on all Fridays, unless a solemnity should fall on a Friday” (Can. 1251, Code of Canon Law). 
Therefore, we ought to celebrate Gabriel’s announcement to Mary of the Lord’s coming and this celebration ought to take precedence over the penitential days of Lent! We ought to eat meat! 

Now, obviously the dining halls did not serve meat on March 25, 2011, but I implore Food Services that the next time this beautiful feast occurs on a Friday in Lent, the good patrons of North and South Dining Halls be allowed to indulge in juicy steak sandwiches and delicious bowls of chili! It will be a great celebration of Mary’s fiat and her willingness to relinquish con­trol to the hand of God. Plus, it’ll probably taste pretty good too! 
James Baker 
sophomore Dillon Hall Mar. 25 
A necessary evil 
Despite Mr. Easley’s right-wing rants in “Where idealism and realism don’t intersect” (Mar. 24), I find there to be ample room for unions in 21st cen­tury America. Not only is there room for unions, but unfortunately (yes, unfortunately) they are nec­essary. Unions began as a way for workers to organize and fight for fair labor conditions during the turn of the industrial revolution. Over the years these unions have gotten away from their roots and do, as Mr. Easley describes at times, step over their boundaries and ask for too much. Unions have in themselves become greedy and at times corrupt. I know this from firsthand experience, having paid my dues and been a member of the Teamsters Union while working in a dairy manu­facturing plant. Often the goals of union leaders were not representative of all union members and were overly aggressive. Sadly this attitude of unions is necessary. 
Unions have become one of the necessary evils of the business world. They are at times corrupt and inefficient, but this attitude is necessary to offset business executives (private unions) and politicians (public unions) who are equally corrupt and greedy. Mr. Easley also suggests that the more pru­dent choice of action instead of collaborative unions would be to take private legal counsel to fight for one’s rights under labor laws. Does he realize this would entail a blue-collar worker hir­ing a low cost private attorney to fight against a team of highly paid corporate lawyers? This option is not even in the realm of possibility for the vast majority of workers who pay union dues on a pay­check by pay-check basis. 

Unions have not been the downfall of American business. Corporate greed that is mostly concerned with profit margins has created the current state of American unions and defined the American busi­ness landscape in general. So while I agree that unions can be corrupt and inefficient, they are a necessary evil. Mr. Easley also misses on his final point where he speaks of the power being strictly within the individual. As outlined within the goals of our government in the Preamble of the Constitution, we must work to “promote the gener­al welfare.” Until everyone from the CEOs down to the minimum wage factory workers start working together, American businesses will be dominated by greed and inefficiency. 
Nick Walsh 
junior off campus Mar. 24 
UWIRE 

Middle Eastern youth now fight for their political voice 
The popular revolution surging throughout Libya has been under a spotlight in the U.S., as allied war­planes and cruise missiles have recently begun to aid anti-government rebels in their fight to remove dictator Muammar al-Qadaffi from power. But this incredible uprising is just one of many intensifying pro-democracy, anti-autocratic 
Raquel Woodruff 

movements driven by young peo­ple across the Middle East. 
Washington 
The revolt in Libya, the most 
Square News 

censored country in the Middle East and North Africa according to the 2009 Freedom of the Press Index, is an illumi­nation of the vigorously growing opposition fueled by youth who, through access to social media, have seen how the rest of the world lives and want it for themselves. They want the freedom to make their own choices and the freedom to have their own voic­es. 
The immobilizing wall of silence was first broken in the Tunisia revolution. The popular uprising that ousted the nation’s leader Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali was the first democratic revolt in the modern Arab world and a catalyst for the rest of the Middle East to press for reform in a region dominated by author­itative regimes. The oppressed citizens of other Arab and North African nations did indeed begin to respond — several countries are currently fighting against the corruption and nepotism they have lived with their whole lives and are realizing that political freedom and economic reform comes from democra­cy. 
Following their neighbors in Tunisia, in January protesters in Egypt demanded the overthrow of Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak and his regime. After weeks of popular protest and pressure, Mubarak resigned from office in February. A record number of voters turned out in Egypt approving con­stitutional amendments to secure a free and fair democratic system. 
In Yemen last week, President Ali Abdullah Saleh, a determined U.S. ally in the fight against terrorism, declared a state of emergency and dismissed his cabinet after government-linked forces killed more than 40 unarmed protesters. On Monday, news came about of several top army commanders and one of Yemen’s key tribal leaders having sided with the pro­testers. 
And that’s not it. Opposition leaders in Bahrain were arrested after troops disbanded thousands of protestors that were occupying the central square of Manama. The king called for a three-month state of emergency. In Saudi Arabia, Sunni Muslims sent troops to mollify the mainly Shiite upheaval in bor­dering Bahrain. King Abdullah offered over $100 bil­lion in added benefits to citizens following relentless protests in Riyadh. 

Let’s take a look at Syria. Protesters set fire to a headquarters of the ruling Baath Party — a raging indication of dissent in one of the region’s most authoritarian states. And now Libyan people pouring across Tunisia’s border are being offered food and assistance from their neighbors. 
It’s obvious now that Libya is but one part of a remarkable wave of revolt in the Arab world. The Arab people, mainly the youth, are no longer sitting paralyzed under oppression, restricted by religious theocracies. 
The U.S. should continue supporting the dissidents in Libya and the quest for freedom in future auto­cratic governments. Middle Eastern dictator-run gov­ernments are finally changing — an extraordinary step in the modern Arab world. And the United States being a part of it is a tremendous thing. 
This column originally ran in the Mar. 24 edition of the Washington Square News, serving New York University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Monday, March 28, 2011 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Monday, March 28, 2011 page 11 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Dagney Nagengast Spotted: God Quad As Dagny was walking to class, I couldn’t help but notice this really cute outfit. Her dark skinny jeans and silver flats look great with her relaxed gray tunic and black details. Her brown crossover messenger bag is a perfect, comfort­able size for books and materials, while her glasses complete the cool studying look. Dagny definitely knows how to mix and match her clothes and make a simple ensemble look good. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 


MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 28, 2011 
PGA TOUR 

Laird overcomes slow start to win at Bay Hill 
exactly what I did. It came back putted up the slope to 5 feet 
Associated Press 
to bite me.” and missed the bogey putt. 

ORLANDO, Fla. — All that Laird, a 28-year-old from “I played so well all day, and stood between Martin Laird and Scotland who came to America you know, one hiccup on 17 victory at Bay Hill were two to play college golf and never cost me the tournament,” he putts from just inside 90 feet on left, became the first European said. the 18th hole, which didn’t to win at Bay Hill. He now Justin Rose closed with a 68 seem all that long considering heads off to the Masters for the and tied for third with David what he already had been first major of the year, having Toms and Marc Leishman, who through Sunday. felt like he just won one. needed to win to get into the 
First came a stunning col-Considering all the calamity, it Masters. lapse that took him from a felt as though the U.S. Open Tiger Woods, a six-time win­three-shot lead to a three-shot have moved from June to ner at Bay Hill, was poised for a deficit in a span of seven holes. March. No one in the last three second straight top 10 until he He was three shots behind groups broke par, and those six made bogey from the bunker on when he walked off the 14th players were a combined 19-the 17th and hit his approach green, two shots ahead as he over par. into the water on No. 18 for headed to the 17th tee. It was a day of survival. double bogey and a 72. In his 
Laird knocked the first putt For Laird, it turned out to be final tournament before the up to 3½ feet, then jabbed his a remarkable revival. Masters, Woods tied for 24th, fist when he rolled in the par When he pulled his approach seven shots behind. Phil putt to win the Arnold Palmer from a fairway bunker into the Mickelson dropped three shots Invitational. water on No. 11 and made dou-on the last five holes for a 73 to 
“That was a hell of a day,” ble bogey, he already was 5 also finish in a tie for 24th. Laird said. “That was a tough over for the round. But while he Laird won for the second time fight out there. It was a battle lost the lead, he never lost in his PGA Tour career, and the out there, but you know, it hope. record will show that he won makes it even sweeter at the “I never thought about not for the first time in three tries end when I got this trophy.” winning,” Laird said. “When I when going into the final round 
In the toughest final round on saw I was three down, I didn’t atop the leaderboard. the PGA Tour this year, Laird have a choice. I had to start But it wasn’t that simple. Not was strong at the end with two playing some good golf. I had to even close. birdies and two clutch pars to make birdies. Steve was playing Palmer prefers a stern test at close with a 3-over 75, the too good. That was really the his beloved Bay Hill, and that’s highest final round by a winner focus. It was trying to get this what he got, especially in the in the 33-year history at Bay trophy.” afternoon when the wind Hill. First came a handshake and picked up and the course dried the final group and started two knew it was going to be this 
That two-putt par on the 18th congratulations from Palmer, out even more under a hot sun. shots behind, shot 41 on the tough to win.” was just enough for a one-shot the tournament host. “The back-nine pins, they are front nine and still was in the Woods played a solid round victory over hard-luck Steve “It really doesn’t get any bet-all bogey and double-bogey pins game toward the end. He until his bogey-double bogey Marino, who lost three shots on ter than to meet him coming off — they are not birdie pins,” wound up with a 76 and tied for finish. Bay Hill completes a full two plugged lies in bunkers as the champion of his tourna-Mickelson said when he fin-sixth. year since his return from a sex over the last four holes. Marino ment,” Laird said. ished. “The last eight holes are Laird got off to such a shaky scandal, with not much to show followed a double bogey on the Laird needed some help from holes that you have to play 50 start that it only took an hour for it — no wins, only three top par-3 17th with an all-or-noth-Marino, who played beautifully feet away if you’re playing for more players to have a 10s on the PGA Tour and not ing shot over the water at the until the last four holes. smart.” chance than who started the once in serious contention on flag to 8 feet on the last hole for Marino went at the flag on the Laird finished at 8-under 280, final round. He made three the back nine. birdie and a 72. 15th, tucked right behind the the highest winning score since bogeys to go out in 39 and was Next stop: Augusta National. 
“You just cannot afford to bunker, and his ball plugged in Ben Crenshaw shot 280 in tied with Marino when he head-Such is the state of his game (waste) shots in the final round the soft sand. He blasted out to 1993. Laird earned $1.08 mil-ed to the back nine. that the six-time Bay Hill win­
— really, at any point in the 35 feet and made bogey. Then lion, and a validation after Then came more twists than ner called this a “very good tournament — if you want to came the 17th, and a 6-iron tough playoff losses at The he was expecting. week, and a week I needed to win,” Marino said after his third that he thought was good all the Barclays and in Las Vegas late “No one is going to take a 75 see.” close call this year. way until the crowd groaned. last year. going into the last round of a “It’s getting better every week “Unfortunately on 17, that’s He blasted out over the green, Spencer Levin, who played in tournament,” Laird said. “but I I’ve played,” he said. 

ATP 

Fish advances to semifinals of Sony Ericcson Open 
Associated Press  Fish is ranked a career-best 15th, and if he wins two more  has quadrupled mine, at least.” Roddick is a five-time Grand  “Playing out there today, you can obviously see why you need  lot of times when a draw sort of opens up, guys tend to maybe  
KEY  BISCAYNE,  Fla.  — rounds he’ll overtake longtime  Slam finalist who won the 2003  to be fit to win these matches,”  not play  as  well. So I’m not  
Mardy Fish might leave Key  friend Andy Roddick in the next  U.S. Open and finished that  Fish said.  looking at the draw.”  
Biscayne  as  the top-ranked  rankings. Roddick lost his open- year  ranked  No.  1. Fish’s  Also advancing was No. 30­ Juan Martin del Potro, gain- 
American in men’s tennis,  a  ing  match  Saturday  and  is  record in major events is barely  seeded John Isner, who won an  ing momentum in his comeback  
prospect that leaves him uncon­ expected to drop from eighth to  above .500, and he has made  all-American matchup against  from  a  right  wrist  injury,  
vinced.  about 15th, the lowest he has  the top 20 in the year-end rank- qualifier Alex Bogomolov Jr., 6­ earned his first win this year  
“I  wouldn’t  be  the  No.  1  been ranked since 2002.  ings only twice.  2, 7-6 (4). Bogomolov upset  over a top-10 player by beating  
American really,” said Fish,  “I certainly wouldn’t feel like  But at 29, Fish is in the best  Roddick in the second round,  No. 4 Robin Soderling 6-3, 6-2.  
who beat No. 17 seed Richard  the top-ranked American, con- condition of his  career.  That  giving Isner  a  less daunting  Del Potro, ranked 484th in  
Gasquet 6-4, 6-3 in the third  sidering what Andy has accom­ showed against Gasquet in the  path to the quarterfinals.  February, will climb back into  
round of the Sony Ericsson  plished and what I’ve accom­ midday  sun  on  an  87-degree  “I didn’t want to think too  the top 45 after the tourna- 
Open on Sunday.  plished,” Fish said. “His career  afternoon.  much about it,” Isner said. “A  ment.  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Who is that girl I see  
FOR SALE  WANTED  PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Alan Garner: [while picking up Phil at the school where he works] Did  Staring straight Back at me?  
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  you have to park so close?  
17702 Douglas Rd South Bend  Earn Extra Money  many resources in place to assist  Why is my reflection someone I  
Newly Renovated 3 Bed/2 Full Bath  you.  Doug Billings: Yeah, what's wrong?  don’t know?  
Students needed ASAP.  If you or someone you care about  
2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek  has been sexually assaulted, we  If you or someone you love needs  Alan Garner: I shouldn't be here.  Somehow I cannot hide  
Lots of Parking  Earn up to $150 per day being a  can help.  confidential support or assistance,  Who I am  
Mystery Shopper.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Doug Billings: Why is that, Alan?  Though I’ve tried  
Walk to Campus  When will my reflection show  
No Experience Required.  For more information, visit Notre  For more information, visit ND's  Alan Garner: I'm not supposed to  Who I am inside?  
50+ Photos on web  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  website at: http://pregnancysup­ be within two hundred feet of a  
Call 1-888-534-5008  port@nd.edu  school ... or a Chuck E. Cheese.  When will my reflection show  
17702douglas.com 574-876-8596  Who I am inside?  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Monday, March 28, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 28, 2011 

NBA 

Big Three each top 30 Sunday 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade was hurting at halftime and spent much of the third quarter recovering in the Miami locker room. 
LeBron James had 33 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists, Chris Bosh added 31 points and 12 rebounds, and the Heat beat the Houston Rockets 125-119 on Sunday for their eighth win in nine games. 
Wade shook off a bruised tailbone and finished with 30 points and 11 rebounds for Miami, which had three play­ers score 30 or more for the first time in the franchise’s 23-year history. 
Kevin Martin scored 29 points, Luis Scola added 28 and Kyle Lowry had 25 points, nine assists and seven rebounds for the Rockets. Chase Budinger scored 16 for Houston, which had a five-game winning streak snapped. 
Wade sealed it with 33 sec­onds left, taking a handoff from James and making a left-handed layup while get­ting knocked into a row of courtside photographers for a 120 -115 lead. The Heat never trailed in the fourth quarter, taking the lead for good when James Jones made three free throws with 
9:22 remaining. 
Miami ’s “Big Three ” ensured that drought would continue. Wade, James and Bosh combined to score 91 points in Miami’s win over Philadelphia on Friday, and combined for 94 on Sunday. 
Much like the 125-119 Heat win at Houston earlier this season, this was another track meet. Miami’s 38 first-quarter points were its sec-ond-highest total of the sea­son — and Houston ’s 37 points after 12 minutes were the third-most the Heat had given up this season. 
It was 71-68 at the half, Miami ’s highest -scoring 
opening 
two quarters in more than five years. 

The bigger concern was Wade, who bruised his tail­bone after appearing to trip 

over 
teammate Juwan Howard’s feet while trying to grab an offensive rebound midway through the second. He finished the half, but missed the first 7½ minutes of the third quarter while being tended to in the Miami locker room. 


Martin had 11 points in the third quarter, nine of them coming in an 89 -second span. He made a 3-pointer with 5:20 left in the period, slapping his hands and yelling that he got fouled. . 
The Heat closed the quar­ter on a 12-4 run over the final 3:17, capped by James blowing past Patrick Patterson for a dunk that knotted the game at 93 entering the fourth. 



SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles to play Bethel after pair of rainouts 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles return to action against No. 23 Bethel College today following two rainouts last week. The match will be their first conference game, and a win would bring their season record to 9-2. 
“We’ve been working almost everyday since we’ve been back, and even though the conditions aren’t always ideal, now is the time of the season to fine-tune everything,” junior infielder Kate Mitchell said. 
The Belles, who have not played since March 17, are ready to see how their practices have improved their level of play. Senior outfielder Hayley Bojorquez said she is eager to see how her team performs after the extra time to practice. 
“A win against Bethel would reassure the confidence we have in this team and be a great start to our season at home,” Bojorquez said. “We want to have a solid game regardless of the outcome, where we immediately fix our mistakes and capitalize on theirs.” 
Mitchell is eager to see the team’s leadership shine through in conference play. 
“Hayley is our lone senior this year and she’s really been taking on the leadership role very well,” Mitchell said. “Building off of that, we aren’t just a one-woman team. Every player on our team has a role.” 
Bojorquez and Mitchell are both aiming to secure a conference championship for their team. A win against Bethel would be a solid start toward that goal. 
“We’re a good hitting team, we have the pitching and we have good defense,” Mitchell said. “I think if we focus on our jobs indi­vidually and we stay pumped and energized as a team throughout the whole game, we’ll do some big things.” 
Bojorquez said the team must remain focused throughout con­ference play, particularly against a tough opponent like Bethel. 
“The key to winning this game is to stay focused mentally and not let Bethel’s strengths consume us,” Bojorquez said. “We’re a strong team when we play our game and don’t let outside forces affect us mentally.” 
The Belles take the field today at 5 p.m. against the Pilots. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

Irish take three races at regatta 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame and Indiana split six races Sunday in Indianapolis, denying Purdue and Eastern Michigan any victories. The Irish won the first and sec­ond varsity four races, and took the third varsity eight, while the Hoosiers were vic­torious in the first and sec­ond varsity eight races, as well as the novice eight. 
Irish coach Martin Stone said the eight boats were never in rhythm, leading to the one-second loss to the Hoosiers by the first varsity boat and six-second loss by the second varsity boat. 
“I think we just didn’t race well in the middle part of the race,” he said. “We had the lead at one point, but they pushed through us. We just never established a good rhythm.” 
Purdue and Eastern Michigan never seriously tested Notre Dame and Indiana in the main races. Stone said he expected the Hoosiers to present the biggest challenge. 
“Indiana is very good — I give credit to them,” he said. “Coming in, we expect­ed [the Hoosiers] were going to be our biggest challenge, and they raced very well. They did all the things we needed to do.” 
Stone said he let his team know they need to improve, but admitted some positives on a day when Notre Dame won only one of the varsity eight races. The eight-man boats are considered the most prestigious piece in NCAA rowing. 

“I told them I was disap­pointed, that we need to row faster and that we’ll contin­ue to train for our next race, ” Stone said. “Some things we need to do better, but there were also some bright spots.” 
Among the bright spots was Notre Dame’s varsity four, which crossed the line at 7:56.0, 14 seconds faster than second-place Indiana. Having picked the same lineups for three weeks now, Stone said he now has the time to consider moving people. 
“Selection takes time, and kids need to recover and rest,” he said of the process of placing oarsmen. “Up to this point we haven’t had the time to assess everyone. We also have kids coming back from injury, so there could be some changes.” 
Stone expressed confi ­dence in his team’s ability to recognize and correct mis­takes. 
“We’re a good team and we have a good group of kids, ” he said. “They ’re smart, and they realize that we need to get better. We’ll figure it out.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

Monday, March 28, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SOFTBALL 

Irish overcome early defcit 
By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
An early deficit did not faze Notre Dame, as Notre Dame’s effi­cient offense helped the squad edge past Northern Illinois 4-1 on Friday. 
Down one run in the first inning, the Irish (21-2) kept their calm and not only scored four runs off five hits, but also held the Huskies (10-12) scoreless after the first frame. 
“The team, especially this year, has responded really well to being down early,” senior catcher Lex Clay said. “Because it was so early in the game, I don’t think the team really worried about it because we know that we’ve been a good hitting team.” 
Clay said that the team saw being down early as a challenge. 
“We don’t really pressure our­selves to get a lot o f runs early because we know we’re going to hit well and come back,” Clay said. “I think we were anxious for the challenge to get back, that if they have one run, lets see how many we can score.” 
While the Irish did not hit par­ticularly well, they performed effi­ciently. Clay had two Notre Dame’s five hits, each of which produced an RBI. 
However, team play was a major theme throughout the game, as Clay did not credit indi­vidual outstanding players, but outstanding teamwork and coop­eration. 

“We didn’t have a lot to work with that game. We only had five hits, but a lot of people did their jobs when asked, a lot of people participated,” Clay said. 
Notre Dame’s other major strong point in this game was their ability to operate under pressure, not only while losing, but also with two outs on multiple occasions. 
“We had a couple people who got on base with two outs and we had someone else hit them in,” Clay said. “We had [senior out­fielder] Brianna Jorgensberg score someone with a triple with two outs, then get hit in.” 
Great defense and outstanding pitching kept the Huskies score­less after the first inning, as soph­omore Brittany O’Donnell kept the Huskies’ hitters off-balance. 


“One of our starting pictures, [senior] Jody Valdivia, came in and they got a few hits off of her,” Clay said. “Brittany came in and struck out five batters. Another pitcher came in the next inning and struck out six. We had people playing really good defense. It was really a team effort, our win. Even though we didn’t have many hits, everyone really participated.” 
The Irish next take the field when they face Western Michigan Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

No. 25 Notre Dame defeats USF, Dayton 
and Blas (Moros),” Bayliss 
By KATE GRABAREK 

said. 
Sports Writer 

Moros, a sophomore, did not drop a game in his victo-
The No. 25 Irish made ry over Juan Carlos Acuna quick work of two opponents Gerard. Sunday, earning back -to -Fitzgerald was able to 
back victories 
over No. 50 South Florida and Dayton at home. 
Notre Dame downed USF by a score of 6-1 with the only loss coming at No. 1 singles, where No. 73 Lucas Jovita defeated No. 58 Casey Watt 6-2, 7-6. 
“Alth ough Casey lost at No. 1, he 
junior Casey Watt defeated Romain Deridder and Yannick Yoshizawa by the same score. 
Freshman Greg Andrews and senior Tyler Davis defeated Wael Kilani and Federico Sabogal 8-4 at No. 3 doubles. 
“We jumped on them at No. 

defeat Sabogal in the closest match of the day in three 
“We jumped on them 
sets 6-2, 6-7, at No. 1 and No. 2 dou-1-0 at No. 5. 
bles and really never In the sec ­
ond match of 
looked back, winning 
the day the 
both.” Irish easily defeated Dayton. 
Bobby Bayliss 
Senior
Irish coach 
showed a lot of courage by electing to play after an injury last week, ” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Irish sophomore Spencer Talmadge and junior Niall Fitzgerald defeated Jamal Adderley and Jovita at No. 1 doubles, 8-3. 
Senior Stephen Havens and 

1 and No. 2 doubles and really never looked back, winning both,” Bayliss said. “We made an adjustment at No. 1 when they handled our two-back formation better than we anticipated and got more aggressive and got into the net more on their serves.” 
Havens defeated Kilani 7­5, 7-5 at No. 2 singles, while senior Dan Stahl defeated Adderley 7-5, 6-3 at No. 3. 
Andrews won easily at No. 4 singles against Yoshizawa, dropping only one game. 
“In singles I certainly did not expect the domination we got from Greg Andrews David Anderson and Stahl topped Benton Benalcazar 
and Andrew Hanley 8-0 at No. 1 doubles, while senior Matt Johnson and freshman Ryan Bandy defeated Alex Crum and Robert Salcedo 8­1 at No. 2 to clinch the dou­bles point. 
Seniors Sean Tan and Bryan Kelly beat Sean Bandy and Sam Pecyna 8-1 at No. 3 
doubles. 
Davis earned a win at No. 4 sin ­
gles over 
“In singles, I certainly 
Crum 6-2, 6-1 did not expect the to give the 
domination we got Irish an early 2-0 lead. 
from Greg Andrews 
Moros was 
and Blas [Moros].” next off the court defeat­ing
Bobby Bayliss 
Benalcazar 6­
Irish coach 
1, 6-0 at No. 
2 singles. 
Freshma n Michael Moore increased the Irish lead to 3­0 with a win at No. 5 singles, 
Andrews rolled over Hanley, not dropping a game in his first appearance at the No. 1 position for the Irish. 
Talmadge defeated Phillip Dresden 6-2, 6-0 to give the Irish a 6-0 lead, and Anderson defeated Pecyna 6­1, 6-2, to give the Irish the sweep. 
Notre Dame will next trav­el to Ball State University to take on the Cardinals with first serve set for 2 p.m. in Muncie, Ind. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 28, 2011 
Title 
continued from page 20 
out there. It was so impres­sive to watch him maintain his composure and perform on that level.” 
Junior Reggie Bentley also performed strongly for the Irish in the foil, finishing in fifth place with a 16 -7 record. 
Senior sabre Avery Zuck just missed earning a gold medal of his own, falling in the championship bout by a single touch, 15 -14. Zuck joined DeSmet as an All ­American. Senior Barron Nydam, who finished with a 15-8 record, joined the two in the sabre. 
Sophomore James Kaull and senior Brent Kelly both turned in solid performances in the men’s epee, finishing in 14th and 16th place respectively. 
The women’s team compet­ed over Saturday and Sunday. Hurley led the way with a 19­4 record while capturing her first NCAA individual gold in the epee and all-American honors. 
“Courtney is an incredible fencer,” Zuck said. “She has had success all over world, so we have come to expect this of her. She really deserved to win gold this weekend.” 
Senior Ewa Nelip also com­peted in the epee, finishing with a 12-11 record. 
With a 17-6 record, senior sabreist Eillen Hassett fenced her way to her first career top-four finish and a place as a first -team all-American. Sophomore Lian Osier also fenced sabre for Notre Dame, finishing in ninth place with a 12-11 record. 
In the women’s foil, senior Haley Reese finished in eighth place with a 15 -8 record, while freshman Rachel Beck rounded out the Notre Dame lineup with a 6-3 record, including the clinch­ing win over Katherine Chou of Harvard. The freshman’s win — which closed out the championship — gave the Irish seniors the first nation­al championship of their careers. 
“Winning is unbelievable,” Zuck said. “After four years of being so close, with the goal just building up inside you, it was amazing to finally reach our goal this week ­end.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Dyer becomes second Irish NCAA swimmer 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Capping off his record-breaking first year on the Irish squad, fresh­man Frank Dyer competed in the NCAA Swimming Championships over the weekend, becoming only the second swimmer in Notre Dame’s history to do so. 
Dyer, the first ever Irish fresh­man to qualify for the NCAA Championships, also recorded the highest ever finish for the Irish program in the meet when he placed 26th in the 200-meter freestyle. However, Dyer says that he doesn’t expect his new record to remain intact for any significant period of time. 
“I am honored to be the highest [Irish] finisher at the meet,” Dyer said, “[However,] I know with the teammates that I have now and the incoming swimmers we have, 26th place will shortly be lowered to top eight at least.” 
If Dyer’s prediction turns out to be accurate, he will most likely be the one to surpass his own previ­ous best finish. In this year’s NCAA meet, Dyer swam the 100, 200 and 500-meter freestyles, placing 40th, 26th and 44th respectively overall. Dyer’s first swim of the Championships was the 500-meter freestyle, in which he recorded a time of 4:27.25. In February at the Big East Championships Dyer post­ed a time of 4:19.08 in the event, setting new records for Notre Dame and the conference as he became the 500-meter freestyle Big East Champion. Dyer, who was accompanied by his parents and coaches at the NCAA meet, says that he noticed the absence of his team’s support he received at the Big East meet. 
“It was hard to go faster in the 500 after such an emotional event with my team behind me at Big East [Championships],” he said. 
Despite any drop-off from previ­ous performances, Dyer said he still found plenty to celebrate as he realized that his showing as a freshman signals a promising career at the NCAA Championships. 
“I was very happy with my first NCAA meet,” Dyer said. “In my shorter distance events, I think I really set myself up nicely for NCAA meets in the future.” 
More importantly for Dyer, the swimmer hopes that his perform­ance at the NCAA Championships will serve as a model and learning experience for the entire Notre Dame team. 
“My first season in college was for me to continue to keep doing what I had been doing to get to this point,” Dyer said. “But it was also an opportunity to see how much our team can improve. I want so badly for more members of our team to compete at the national level and I know we are just small steps away from it.” 
Should more members of the Irish team be able to qualify for the NCAA Swimming Championships in the coming years, it would be a welcome sign for a Notre Dame program that has enjoyed consid­erable success recently under coach Tim Welsh. At the very least, it is likely Dyer will return much stronger in his sophomore year having gained both experience and motivation as he sets his sights on a national title. 
“This meet was definitely an eye­opener,” Dyer said. “I have now seen the fastest, most competitive meet in college swimming and I want to put the work in to be as close to a national champion as I can be. Now, I'll have to work on things in the off season to become a smarter, more focused swimmer in order to accomplish my goals.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

ND wins Georgetown series 
By ANDREW GASTELUM and CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writers 
Finally able to take to their home field for the first time all season, the Irish couldn’t have been happier — that is, until they won a three-game series against conference rival Georgetown to open Big East play. 
The Irish (9-11-1, 2-1 Big East) snatched the first two games in the series by a combined total of two runs, while narrowly miss­ing the sweep in Sunday after­noon’s 4-3 loss. 
The Notre Dame bats got off to a fast start in Friday’s home opener, a 3-2 victory. The strug­gling Irish totaled eight hits, but it was senior right-hander Brian Dupra’s (2-2) stellar perform­ance — no runs in 7.1 innings — that stole the show. 
The scoring started early with sophomore second baseman Frank DeSico leading off the bot­tom of the first with a single to right field. The sophomore then proceeded to steal second and scored on a fielding error by Hoyas sophomore left fielder Paul Bello. 
After Georgetown reliever Michael Seander walked two straight batters to load the bases in the bottom of the ninth of the 2-2 game, DeSico drew the game-winning walk to break Notre Dame’s four-game winless stretch. 
The Irish were up 2-0 entering the seventh before a dropped fly ball by senior right fielder Herman Petzold put the leadoff man on base. The Hoyas (16-9, 1-2) then followed with consecu­tive extra-base hits — a RBI dou­ble by sophomore shortstop Mike Garza and a RBI triple by junior right fielder Rand Ravnaas — to tie the game at 2-2. 

Petzold added a two-out RBI single in the sixth, displaying the timely hitting that Irish coach Mik Aoki hopes the team can continue. 
“[The offense] is a work-in progress,” Aoki said. “It’s not where we would like it to be, but I know that the guys are work­ing. Our offense just needs to take advantage of opportunities. Sometimes it’s just one timely hit that makes it all go.” 
Offense was not much of a fac­tor in Saturday afternoon’s 1-0 shutout win. Senior starter Cole Johnson (2-4) carried the Irish, only giving up five hits while striking out six in eight innings. Johnson has not received run support since the Irish’s 19-2 rout over Purdue Feb. 19 as the offense has only totaled seven runs in his last four starts com­bined. 
Yet all the right-hander needed was the sole run — produced by a double by senior shortstop Mick Doyle in the fourth inning 
— as he masterfully pitched his way through the potent Georgetown offense on 106 pitches. 
“I did a good job of competing and throwing strikes that led to a little contact but the defense played well,” Johnson said. “One run was enough. Today the pitching staff had to carry the offense but I guarantee some­where down the road we will win a [high-scoring] game led by the offense.” 
Freshman right-hander Dan Slania sealed the shutout with a seven-pitch scoreless ninth. 
The Irish missed out on a sweep on Sunday, as a strike out by freshman center fielder Eric Jagielo with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning gave Georgetown a 4-3 win. Senior right hander Todd Miller (2-2) took the loss despite turn­ing in a gritty 6.1 innings pitched, giving up four earned runs after being struck by a first-inning line drive on his pitching hand. 
“That was a huge gut-check outing for [Miller],” Aoki said. “He gets smoked by that line drive on his pitching hand in the first inning and he guts it through … He doesn’t say a word, he just goes out there and grinds, that was an absolute gut-check.” 
The game was a back-and­forth affair, with a two-run single from Bello in the top of the sev­enth providing the go-ahead runs for Georgetown after Notre Dame had gone ahead 2-1 on a two-run home run from fresh­man first baseman Trey Mancini. Though the Irish put up a fight in their last at-bat, they could not get the timely hit to complete the sweep. 
“They put four runs on the board with six hits. When it comes down to it, they got the timely hits,” Aoki said. “The guys just need to relax, I think we’re pressing a little bit in those situa­tions.” 
Notre Dame will send fresh­man left-hander Anthony McIver to the mound Monday in a make­up game against Illinois-Chicago at 5:35 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu and Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Monday, March 28, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Diggins 
continued from page 20 
assists, and senior forward Devereux Peters added 17 points and 13 rebounds. The Irish (28-7) outhustled the Sooners (23-11) on the glass, outrebounding Oklahoma 47 to 24. 
“We got absolutely demoralized on the boards,” Sooners coach Sherri Coale said. “They were the better team. There’s no doubt about it.” 
Mallory scored Notre Dame’s first nine points of the game, hit­ting consecutive 3-pointers to push the Irish out to an early lead. The Sooners remained within reach until a 21-2 Irish run gave the squad a 34-17 lead heading into the break. 
Peters and junior guard Natalie Novosel combined for 11 points during the first-half run, as Notre Dame capitalized on 14 Oklahoma turnovers. 
“I thought our defense was out­standing,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I thought we did a really great job of guarding the 3­point line, which was one of our primary concerns. We wanted to be able to rebound and run, and we certainly did that. [Junior guard] Fraderica Miller may be the unsung hero of the game.” 
Notre Dame’s bench outscored Oklahoma’s 16-2, as Miller’s 18 minutes proved to be the biggest of her career. Tasked with guarding Oklahoma’s leading scorer, senior guard Danielle Robinson, Miller held Robinson to 16 points, two below her season average. 
“She brings great energy to our team,” McGraw said. “I think everybody gets a little bit excited watching the matchup. [Miller] was able to get out and really put some pressure on the ball-handler, which really keyed the rest of our defense. I thought she was a huge key to the win.” 
Diggins said the team played with an intensity that stemmed from last year’s loss to the Sooners in the same round. 
“I’m not going to act like last year’s game wasn’t at the front of my mind the whole 40 minutes,” she said. “All I wanted to do was score and I wanted to set my teammates up in a position to do so.” 
With the win, Notre Dame will play No. 1 seed Tennessee (33-2) Monday in the regional final. 
It is the first time the Irish have played in the Elite Eight since 2001, Notre Dame’s first and only championship season. 
The last time Notre Dame played Tennessee was in the 2008 NCAA tournament, when the Volunteers topped the Irish 74-64 in the regional semifinals on their way to the most recent of their eight national championships. Notre Dame is 0-20 against Tennessee all-time. 
“We know the history between the two programs, with two hall of fame coaches,” Diggins said at a press conference in Dayton Sunday. “It’s going to be a great game. … We’re obviously looking to break that [losing streak].” 
Senior forward Becca Bruszewski, who injured her left knee during the Irish win, was not cleared for practice Sunday and will be a game-time decision, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
“We hope we can use her a little bit tomorrow but her knee’s pretty sore,” McGraw said. “Obviously we need her in there with her tough­ness. I think she’s going to want to play.” 
Notre Dame and Tennessee are scheduled to tip off at 7 p.m. The game will be broadcast on ESPN. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu and Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Notre Dame participates in first oudoor event 

By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
In Notre Dame’s first outdoor competition of the season, the Irish participated in the Stanford Invitational, Alabama Relays and Arizona State Invitational over the weekend and had solid per­formances at each competition. 
The Irish only sent the women’s and men’s 800-meter runners to the Stanford Invitational. The team’s trip west to Palo Alto, Calif. was highlight­ed by senior Jack Howard’s sec-ond-place finish in the first sec­tion with a time of 1:51.22 and Rebecca Tracy’s second-place finish in the women’s fourth sec­tion with a time of 2:09.32. 
Senior Kevin Labus, who fin­ished with a time of 1:51.60 and earned him a second-place finish in the third section of the 800­meter at the Stanford Invitational, said he sees good things ahead for the team’s out­door season. 
“I was happy with my race,” Labus said. “While fast times were not particularly important for this meet, I thought we com­peted very well against some great competition. We should shape up to have a good sea­son.” 
Notre Dame only sent multi-event athletes to the Alabama Relays. If their weekend per­formance in Tuscaloosa, Ala. was a forerunner for the outdoor season, then the Irish are in for a successful season from their multi-event athletes. 
Senior Justin Schneider fin­ished in second place in the men’s decathlon with a total of 6,909 points. Junior Maddie Buttinger held her own and tal­lied 3,035 points in the hep­tathlon, which earned her a third place finish. Buttinger fin­ished 303 points behind eventual winner Kaylon Eppinger of Alabama. 
The Irish sprinters, throwers and jumpers competed at the Arizona State Invitational where their trip was highlighted by sen­ior Denes Veres’ performance in the shot put. Veres came in first place with a 17.50-meter throw. 
Senior Rudy Atang came in third place in the women’s shot put with a throw of 15.69 meters. 
Other notable performances in Tempe, Ariz. were junior Doug Onuscheck’s fourth-place finish in the high jump with a 2.05 meter jump, senior Jasmine Williams’ fifth-place finish in the women’s triple jump with a leap of 11.43 meters and freshman Michelle Brown’s seventh-place finish in the women’s 200-meter dash with a time of 24.89. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
Crist 
continued from page 20 
team, and it’s not about one person.” 
Rees echoed Crist’s senti­ments. 
“We understand that the best player’s going to play,” Rees said. “We want what’s best for the team, so we support each other 100 per­cent.” 
Crist seemed to have the early advantage during practice, wearing the “hel­met cam,” taking snaps first, and generally looking the most confident, collected and mistake-free. Rees was also mistake-free, but didn’t attempt any big plays, while Hendrix was inconsistent. It was Golson, however, who showed flashes of brilliance followed by freshman mis­takes. 
Golson made the play of the day during seven -on ­seven drills, firing a 35-yard fade pass down the opposite sideline into his receiver’s hands and drawing applause from the 1,000 coaches gathered for the Notre Dame coaching clinic. On his very next snap, however, Golson misread the defense and threw an interception that was nowhere close to his intended receiver. 
Rees said that despite his youth, he already sees him­self as a mentor to the younger gunslingers. 
“They come to me like I’ve been here a while, but it’s only my second spring,” he said. “It’s been a lot of fun working with those guys.” 
Kelly ’s second year of spring practice had a differ­ent feel, both to players and to the coach himself. 
“We had to move so quick­ly in year one that we didn’t have the time to do the things we’re doing,” Kelly said. “We’re drilling a lot deeper, we’re spending a lot more time with our players. That’s where we are. It’s the natural progression of being in year two.” 

“It’s really like night and day,” Crist said. “It’s a great positive seeing we’ve come that far in this period of time and this spring it’s about taking it to the next level.” 
Nowhere was the squad’s enthusiasm more evident than in the practice-ending three-on-three drills, which feautred a game-like level of intensity. 
“I want tough guys on the field, gentlemen off the field,” Kelly said. “We want toughness. We want guys that want to compete. We saw that today. We know where that line is. There weren’t guys taking their helmets off and throwing them at each other. Our guys know what that edge is and they’ve got to carry a little bit of edge when they play.” 
The practice was not entirely positive, however. Sophomore running back Cameron Roberson went down with what appeared to be a knee injury early in practice and had to be cart­ed off the field. 
“We didn’t like the way it looked, so they’re going to have to send him for an MRI,” Kelly said. “I never like hearing that news. We’ll know something probably on Monday.” 
Roberson’s injury leaves the Irish with only two scholarship running backs, junior Cierre Wood and sen­ior Jonas Gray. 
Former Florida coach Urban Meyer was also pres­ent at practice as part of the coaching clinic. In an encouraging sign for the defensive line, Kelly said Meyer was impressed by some of the younger mem­bers of the defensive front. 
“[Meyer]’s looking back going, ‘Boy, we would have loved to have had those guys [freshman Louis Nix and early enrollees Aaron Lynch and Ishaq Williams] at Florida,’” Kelly said. “That’s a good sign when you have those kinds of guys out on the field.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish suffer close defeat 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
No. 17 Notre Dame returns to South Bend on the heels of another agonizing loss. The latest setback came Sunday at the hands of Hofstra in come-from-behind fashion, 
Tied at six early in the sec­ond frame, a trio of Irish goals — including two just 17 seconds apart from senior captain Shaylyn Blaney — pushed the score to 9-6 in favor of Notre Dame (3-5). The score remained the same for the next 16 minutes of play until the Pride (4 -5) began a streak of four unan­swered goals to slip by Notre Dame 10-9. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said the defeat frustrated her team, especially since Notre Dame has become familiar with the pain of a close loss. The Irish have also dropped one-goal decisions to Cornell and Stanford this season. 
“This one hurts because we were winning with seven minutes left in the game and we let it slip away,” Coyne said. “That’s disappointing. Going in to halftime with a lead, just like against Cornell last week, and losing is just very disappointing.” 

Though different circum­stances have toppled the Irish in each of their losses, Coyne said all close games require a certain confidence that her team hasn’t found yet. 
“When push comes to shove at the end of the game, you have to want it,” she said. “You have to want the ball. I guess we’re just strug­gling to find that inner-confi­dence.” 
Offensive inconsistency again plagued the Irish, as they dominated the Pride on draw controls 15-6 and out-shot them 27-17, but went the last 20 minutes without a goal. Coyne said she would have liked to see her team be more calculating with their possessions. 
“I wanted us to possess,” she said. “We don’t have to always be shooting. It’s just like in football — if the offense goes three and out every time, the defense is going to constantly be on the field. You have to give your defenders a break, and I think we could have handled 
our possessions better in order to do that”. 
With a sub-par start to the season, Coyne said the team has to rely on the example set by senior captains Blaney and Jackie Doherty. 
“Shaylyn and Jackie have been outstanding,” Coyne said. “I don’t feel like every­one is matching their intensi­ty. It’s not like the kids don’t want it. I think it just comes down to an execution of the fundamentals. In general we did a lot of things well. On paper we’re better in a lot of areas, we just aren’t getting it done.” 
With Big East play begin­ning on Friday, Coyne said her team hopes to turn its season around during a new season of sorts. 
“We had a ton of alumni and parents here for the game and they all said the same things about confer­ence play,” she said. “It’s a whole new ballgame. I feel like we can get a fresh start and a fresh perspective and turn this thing around.” 
The Irish return to action 
on Friday as they host Rutgers at Arlotta Stadium. The game begins at 7 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 28, 2011 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish open Big East play with win over Rutgers 

Frozen 
continued from page 20 
goalie Matt Di Girolamo. 
Maday gave the Irish a 2-0 lead at the tail end of the sec­ond period. With time ticking down, Sheahan fed Maday at the left side of the Wildcat net. Maday moved the puck from skate to stick and lifted a back­hander over Di Girolamo at 
19:55 of the middle stanza. 
“I saw Riley had the puck and I saw an opportunity to go to the net,” Maday said. “[Sheahan] made a great pass and I was able to put it in.” 
Both goals came after pro­longed bouts of New Hampshire attack, and Maday attributed his team’s ability to bounce back to its cool demeanor. 
“We recognize there’s a lot of little plays on the ice and we can’t get overexcited or down no matter what happens,” Maday said. 
From there, it was all about clamping down on defense. Even though Johnson was the star in net, he said his team­mates’ work on defense made his job easy. 
“I have to credit [my team­mates],” Johnson said. “They were unbelievable tonight with the back pressure.” 
New Hampshire’s Mike Sislo cut Notre Dame’s lead in half with a goal at 13:37 of the final period. The Wildcats had a golden opportunity to tie the score with a power play at 
4:03 remaining in the third, but the Irish penalty kill rose to the challenge. A penalty to New Hampshire’s Mike Beck with less than two minutes remaining prevented the Wildcats from taking advan­tage of an extra attacker in the final minutes, and Notre Dame held on for the win. 
“[Notre Dame’s defense was] great all weekend,” Sislo said. “Their whole team made it tough to get it on net and when we did [Johnson] did a great job of putting it in the corner or sucking it up.” 

The trip to the Frozen Four seems unlikely for a team that just last weekend was outscored by a combined score of 10-4 in two games against Miami (Ohio) and Michigan at the CCHA Championship at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. 
Jackson said he talked with Notre Dame sports psycholo­gist Mick Franco over the week about how to properly prepare his exceptionally young team to play on the big stage. 
“As I’ve said all season, espe­cially the last half, it’s been a work in progress with so many young guys,” Jackson said. “How they prepare themselves to play, how they get ready.” 
Maday said he thought Notre Dame’s struggles a week ago gave the team the wake-up call it needed. 
“Losing two games at Joe Louis Arena was an eye open­er,” Maday said. “And I think 

By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Irish opened Big East play Sunday with an 8-3 victory over Rutgers, as Notre Dame shut down the Scarlet Knights in arguably the team’s best overall performance of the season. 
It only took 30 seconds for the Irish (6-0) to light up the score­board, as senior midfielder David Earl gave Notre Dame the early lead. The Scarlet Knights (5-3) were a man-up when they tied the game at one midway through the first quarter. A Rutgers penalty then opened the door for Notre Dame to regain the lead with a second Earl goal less than 20 seconds later. 
Entering the second quarter with a 4-2 Irish lead, both Notre Dame and Rutgers were held scoreless for the next 15 minutes. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said the Scarlet Knights had posses­sion of the ball for the majority of the quarter, but the Irish defense prevented Rutgers from scoring. 
“They were content to play a lot of offense without putting pressure on us,” Corrigan said. “What that means is that it’s really hard to get the ball unless were willing to go out and get the ball from them, and that’s not how we play. When we did [have the ball], we had some good pos­sessions that we didn’t take advantage of, but we didn’t have a lot of them.” 
Junior attack Nicholas Beattie and senior attack Colin Igoe helped the Irish pull away during the third quarter, giving the squad a 6-3 lead heading into the final quarter. Igoe and sopho­more attack Ryan Foley tacked on two additional goals in the fourth quarter, sealing the 8-3 Irish victory. 
“What makes us tough to beat is we have a lot of guys who can make plays,” Earl said. “We defi­nitely have standout players, but our team doesn’t have guys who put up a lot of numbers. I think it’s a strength for us that a lot of guys contribute and make plays because it makes it hard for other teams to prepare for us.” 
After playing a key role in an 8­7 win over Ohio State on Mar. 23, junior attack Sean Rogers once again led the Irish offensively, recording four total points on one goal and three assists. Corrigan said Rogers has discovered his role as one of the many leaders on the Irish squad. 
“Sean has really kind of become our quarterback, and I credit that to him,” Corrigan said. “He’s really done a nice job of making a variety of nice plays now. He’s a good feeder, he cuts around the corners well, he has a good sense of the game and he does a nice job of recognizing when we want to be aggressive and when we want to lay off of the ball. He has really matured and improved during his years here.” 
Rogers emphasized the role of the team as a whole in scoring and said his teammates have worked together to make plays this season. 
“The biggest difference is we’re playing as a unit this year, and it just so happens that I’ve been put in a position to make plays,” Rogers said. “Guys look to me at times, and it just so happens that I’ve been able to makes some plays early on in the season.” 
Entering Sunday’s game, Irish opponents had scored an aver­age of 6.4 goals per game, but Notre Dame’s defense stepped up and held the Scarlet Knights to just three. The Irish cleared the ball successfully in all 16 attempts. 
“Our defense is really strong,” Earl said. “We didn’t make too many mistakes. Overall, we played four quarters [of] just con­sistent, good decision-making defense. It energizes us when we don’t give up those goals.” 
The Irish picked up more ground balls than the Scarlet Knights [18-17], and they also won the turnover battle [12-15]. Corrigan said the performance by the Irish was reflective of their undefeated record for the first time this season. 
“I thought it was probably our most complete game of the sea­son,” Corrigan said. “We played well in pretty much every aspect. We cleared the ball well. We played good offense and defense. We were opportunistic but pretty efficient offensively. We still need to finish the ball in some oppor­tunities we get, but we’re getting better.” 
The Irish return to action Saturday at 1 p.m. when they host Villanova at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

we realized we didn’t want our season to end.” 
For Irish seniors Calle Ridderwall, Ben Ryan and Ryan Guentzel, the trip to the Frozen Four will be a matter of finishing what they started their freshman year. In 2008 — the only other time the Irish have advanced to the Frozen Four — they lost to Boston College in the national champi­onship game. 
“It’s special, definitely,” Ridderwall said. “Starting col­lege with a Frozen Four and then staying until your senior year and being in the same position. It’s definitely very exciting and I think if we keep our eyes on the prize we can do anything in the Frozen Four.” 
The Irish will have a week off before traveling to Saint Paul, Minn. to take on Minnesota-Duluth on April 7 with a spot in the national championship game on the line. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  


Monday, March 28, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31Non-earthlings, 1Fistfuls of money for short 5“The World 32They: Fr. 

According to 33Turner who led a ___” slave rebellion 9Mistreat 34Flavorful citrus 14Baldwin of “30 partsRock” 
37Commercials 15Polish/German 38Carries border river 
40“But is it ___?” 
16Ink for a laser 41Mil. command printer centers17Civil rights 42“Cheers” setting 

pioneer Parks 43Feature of many 
18Game akin to Judd Apatow bingo films19Mountains in 48___New Guinea 

Chile 20He's famous for 
49Paranormal the words 

letters “There's a 50AGabor sister sucker born 531971 Gay Talese 
every minute” title derived from 23“My Gal ___” oneof the Ten 24Mohawked actor Commandments 
of “The A-Team” 56Tarp, e.g. 25Bay window 57Simon & 26Words of Garfunkel's “___ 
solidarity Rock” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


58Mister, inMünster 59Fortunate, old-style60Ruler toppled bythe Bolsheviks 61“___ expert, but…” 62Alternative to Tic Tacs 63“Auld Lang ___”
64Compass points(seen spelledout in 20-, 26-,43- and 53­Across) 
Down 
1 Gets bent out of shape2 Hi from Don Ho 3 1950s-'60s TV studio 4 Read,asa 
U.P.C. symbol5 Kiddieracers 6 “___ Fideles” 7 Landlord's check 8 Annual games
for football's elite 9 Some old 
computers10Baby's headgear11Like awave 12Appear13Hosp. sites for
direcases 21Gives off, asan odor 22Mars : Roman :: ___: Greek 27Human cannonball catcher 28Performed,
biblically29Scot's refusal 30Drunk's affliction,
for short 34Move after azig 

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Ed Sessa  
35Make awrongmove 36Pay a visit 37Water polo andsynchronizedswimming 38Home of the N.F.L.'s  42Money for atripacrosstown, say 44Least batty 45Water polo andsynchronizedswimming 46“Yo!”  51Jules who pioneered inscience fiction 52_orZ 53Puncture 54Having abit of smog  
Buccaneers 39Pizarro's gold 4160 minutes  47Does more tailoring on, asa skirt  55Skinny 56Toronto-based TV network  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


LAURA McGINN 

TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 

Sign Up for the IAFLOFCI (OFFICIAL) Jumble Facebook fan club 
NBDAL  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ACCRK  

 
 
 
 
 

KCBELU  

 
 
 
 
 
 

TPNTEO  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Ans: A  
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday’s  Jumbles: Answer:  PRUNE SPELL FIXINGThe blooming romance was this — A SPRING FLING   IGUANA  

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Monday, March 28, 2011 page 20 
FENCING 

First in fencing 
Irish claim program’s eighth national title by passing Penn State 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
For some collegiate pro­grams, winning champi ­onships ceases to be a goal and becomes an expectation. Notre Dame’s fencing pro­gram is one of those pro­grams — by winning their eighth national champi ­onship and third under Irish coach Janusz Bednarski Sunday, the Irish fencers ful­filled not a goal, but an expectation. 
“We didn’t just talk about winning a championship this year, we expected it,” said senior sabreist Avery Zuck. 
The Irish finished with 174 points, besting two -time defending champion Penn State by six points. The championship was Notre Dame ’s first since 2005. Freshman foilist Ariel DeSmet and junior epeeist Courtney Hurley won gold medals, which marked the first time the Irish captured both a men’s and women’s gold in the same year. While the Irish have talented ros­ters year in and year out, DeSmet said this year’s team had a special feel. 
“When I came in this year, being a freshman I didn’t realize what we had, ” 

PETE LaFLEUR/Notre Dame Sports Information Department Notre Dame celebrates after it won the fencing national championship Sunday in Columbus, Ohio. The Irish topped defending champion Penn State by six points. 

DeSmet said. “As the year continued and I began to see the talent on this team, I knew that we would really have a great shot to win it.” 
Zuck saw Notre Dame ’s breakthrough as a function of its senior-laden roster. 
“This year we were stacked with seniors who have been 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND to face Tennessee for spot in Final Four 

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Notre Dame reacts to its Sweet Sixteen 78-53 victory over 
Oklahoma Saturday. 
By CHRIS MASOUD and 
LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writers 
DAYTON, Ohio — Revenge is regarded as a dish best served cold, but Brittany Mallory missed the memo. 
The senior guard buried six 3­pointers and finished with a game-high 20 points, as Notre Dame rolled by Oklahoma 78-53 to advance to the regional finals of the NCAA tournament. The Irish fell to the Sooners in overtime in the 2010 regional finals. 
“In the first two rounds, I hadn’t hit a three,” Mallory said. “Coming in, I just had to forget about that and just say I’m going to keep shooting. I knew they would even­tually fall.” 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins dished out a Notre Dame NCAA tournament record 12 
see DIGGINS/page 17 
there before,” he said. “We never panicked or got down on ourselves, but still under­stood how important every single bout is.” 
The tournament, held in Columbus, Ohio, began Thursday when the men took the stripe for the first two days of the competition. 
Freshman Ariel DeSmet led the men’s squad with an 18­5 record and a gold medal in the foil competition and earning first team all ­American honors. 
“Ariel is unbelievable,” Zuck said “He left everything 
see TITLE/page 16 

FOOTBALL 
QB battle continues to heat up 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
If there was one conclusion to be made from Saturday’s practice inside the Loftus Sports Center, it was that the quarterback competition is far from settled. Junior Dayne Crist, freshmen Tommy Rees and Andrew Hendrix and early enrollee Everett Golson all participat­ed equally in quarterback drills — just as Irish coach Brian Kelly drew it up. 
“I’ve never scripted this way before. I’m scripting for four quarterbacks, ” Kelly said. “It’s been pretty good overall. I like the four quar­terbacks that we have. I wanted to work with four. We’re working with four, and I think we’re getting better every day.” 
Crist, the five-star recruit with the most experience, understands and appreciates his role — a role that is not well-defined. 
“You don’t come to college given things. We’ve all talked about it as a quarterback group,” Crist said. “We’re all going to push each other and make each other better. At the end of the day, it’s our 
see CRIST/page 17 
HOCKEY 

Irish advance to Frozen Four 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
MANCHESTER, N.H. — For just the second time in the pro­gram’s 43-year history, Notre Dame will play on college hockey’s biggest stage. 
The Irish defeated New Hampshire 2-1 Sunday in the Northeast Regional final to advance to the 2011 Frozen 
Four  and  a  date  with  
Minnesota-Duluth  in  the  
national semifinals.  

“We are thrilled to death,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “With this group, being so young … I credit the leaders and the bond they created amongst themselves. It’s an exciting opportunity and we’re very much looking forward to it.” 
Freshman defenseman Stephen Johns and junior right wing Billy Maday lit the lamp for the Irish, both on assists from sophomore center Riley Sheahan, while sophomore netminder Mike Johnson buoyed Notre Dame with 37 saves. Johns, Maday and Johnson — along with fresh­man left wing Anders Lee — were named to the all-regional 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer The Irish storm the ice after their 2-1 win over New Hampshire Sunday, which sent them to the Frozen Four. 
team, and Johnson was named the regional’s most outstanding player. 
“Michael’s biggest challenge is he wants to do well so bad that he ends up thinking about it too much,” Jackson said. “It’s more about just getting into the game and stopping the puck. You don’t think during the game, you just play, and tonight he just played.” 
The Irish jumped out to a 1-0 lead at 7:26 of the opening period. After a flurry of New Hampshire pressure, the Irish countered the other way. Sheahan fed Johns at the left point, and the freshman fired a laser that beat New Hampshire 
see FROZEN/page 18 




