the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Hesburgh recalls Peace Corps origins 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
On March 1, 1961, University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh encountered two friends as they ran across LaFayette Square in Washington, D.C., to “the boss’ office.” 
The two men, Sargent Shriver and Harris Wofford, were bring­ing an executive order to President John F. Kennedy for him to approve the creation of a Peace Corps. Kennedy signed the order that day. Tuesday marked the 50th anniversary of the corps’ for­mation. 
“I knew [the Peace Corps] from the beginning,” Hesburgh said on the anniversary. “I was present during the creation.” 
Hesburgh and Shriver, the newly appointed director of the program, spent that first evening in 1961 planning the Peace Corps’ first project over the phone. As the anniversary of that initial con­versation passed, Hesburgh reflected on the role Notre Dame played in the program’s begin­ning. 
“We trained the first Peace Corps volunteers at Notre Dame that summer in June, July and August,” he said. “In the fall they went down to Chile in a boat and began two years of service … Notre Dame has the distinction of having the first Peace Corps that got into the field.” 
Notre Dame hosted the first group of Peace Corps volunteers as they trained for their two years of service. The volunteers spent eight weeks on Notre Dame’s campus, Hesburgh said. They took courses in Spanish, Latin American history, political science and social improvement. 
Hesburgh was closely involved with the volunteers as they trained on campus. 
“I was their teacher and their mentor because I put the program of training together,” he said. “I met with them every day. I took care of many of their early prob­lems. So I was like the father or counselor for the first Peace Corps volunteers in the world.” 
see PEACE/page 5 



ND brain researcher receives NFLgrant 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The National Football League (NFL) will fund Notre Dame’s chemistry and biochemistry departments to research strokes and other brain injuries, professor Mayland Chang said. 
Chang, who has been work­ing on the project for 15 years, studies gelatinase ­based brain di seases. Funded in part by the National Institute of Health, the researched treatments are get­ting close to FDA trials, she said. 
Gelatinase is a type of enzyme that breaks down cell walls and can cause tumor metastasis in cancer, as well as problems in traumatic brain injury (TBI), strokes, aneurysms and diabetic 

see BRAIN/page 4 

Soler, Bell push job board reform 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Student employment oppor­tunities are inefficiently advertised by the online job board, student body president Catherine Soler said. 
“I think it’s a totally under­developed resource,” Soler said. “The biggest complaint is that it’s not as comprehen­sive as it should be.” 
The Student Employment Office, a division of the Office of Financial Aid, runs the cur­rent job board. Campus employers must supply the Student Employment Office with information on job open­ings. 
Soler said students suggest­ed restructuring the page itself so that it is easier to access and navigate. 
“A lot of the feedback we’ve heard was about making it a lot more user friendly. Right now they have broad, generic topics for what the jobs are, and sometimes there are no jobs beneath those topics,” Soler said. “Ideally we’d like to upgrade the software to something you can sort, by location, time or days of the week.” 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said confusion often arises from the applica­tion process being separate for each employer and detached from the job board itself. 
“The theme of [the suggest­ed changes] is just streamlin­ing the searching and appli­cation process,” he said. 
Regardless of the difficulties students face in using the page, Soler said a bigger problem is the lack of aware­ness of the job board’s exis­tence and location. 
“Another complaint is find­ing the job board is difficult since it’s under the student financial tab, not many stu­dents look there. Putting it in a place where it’s more visible to students would be better,” she said. “Another big thing is student awareness. Some people don’t even know it exists.” 
Soler said departments’ reluctance to advertise cer­tain jobs, presumably to avoid an excess of applications, presents an obstacle to an accurate job board. 
“One complication is that not everyone wants to adver­tise jobs,” she said. “But we think, if over 40 percent of students are employed, every­one should have the opportu­nity to inquire.” 
Soler said she felt improv­ing student access to job information was especially 
see JOBS/page 4 



Sprint CEO talks cell service at ND 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Mobile carrier Sprint plans to increase the company’s 4G coverage on campus and to introduce a unique Notre Dame Sprint ID Pack, CEO and Notre Dame alumnus Dan Hesse said. 
The com­pany hopes to reach out to students who are either searching for a mobile carrier or who are dissatisfied with their current company, Hesse said. 
“If there is not great cover-age at Notre Dame, I hear it from everyone,” Hesse said. “It may be a selfish perspective, but Notre Dame deserves noth­ing less than the best.” 

The target market for Sprint is shifting from businessmen and women to college stu­dents, Hesse said. 
“It is very important for us as a company to reach out to students,” Hesse said. “By serving on the board at the Mendoza College of Business and lecturing a couple of times per year, it is clear [to me] who our target customers are.” 
Sprint’s current packages reflect the needs of a student demographic, he said. 
“Simplicity and value are the two qualities which we attempt 
see SPRINT/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council discusses pep rallies, Sullivan memorial fund page 3  DPAC Photo essay page 10  Bengal Bouts page 20 Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 2, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT’S YOUR FAVORITE TEAC ER QUOTE?


THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Eric Prister John Cameron Meaghan Veselik Carly Landon Sam Gans Graphics Conor Kelly Lauren Kalinoski Scene Photo Jordan Gamble Dan Jacobs Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 
Wallis Simpson’s lingerie, handbags up for auction 
LONDON — Lingerie, handbags and luggage once owned by Wallis Simpson, the American divorcee who shook the British monarchy, are due to be auctioned off in London. 
Kerry Taylor Auctioneers says that items due to be put up for sale include a scarlet chiffon nightdress, complete with a full length cape, and a 1960s Louis Vuitton vanity case. The auction is set for March 17. 
The story of Simpson, for whom King Edward VIII abdicated the throne in 1936, continues to fasci­nate. It’s currently being turned into a movie, 

Claire Broshnihan  Erin Boyle  Hali Nguyen  Maireid Mumford  Michael Appel  Rachel Geoffrey  
senior  sophomore  freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  
Pasquerilla East  Cavanaugh  Lewis  Lewis  Knott  Farley  

“Don’t pay  “Hard alcohol is  “You can tell a  “Chivalry is  “If it stinks, it’s  “I set the clocks to  
enough  prohibited?”  lot about a man  about pickup  biology; if it  start running  
attention to  by his shoes.”  trucks and  changes color,  backwards when  
have one.”  chainsaws and  it’s chemistry; if  class was about  
$500 drivers- it breaks, it’s  to end then the  
guy stuff.”  physics.”  maintenence staff  

caught me.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Snow melts Tuesday on North Quad due to warmer weather. As more grass becomes visible each day, students grow hopeful that spring and its weather will come soon. 
“W.E.,” directed by Madonna. It was also a key part of “The King’s Speech,” which was crowned best picture Sunday at the Academy Awards ceremony and won four Oscars in all, includ­ing a best-actor prize for Colin Firth as stammering British ruler George VI, Edward’s brother. 
Nine sixth-graders suspected of ‘fight club’ in Washington 
TACOMA — Nine sixth-grade boys suspected of participating in a so-called “fight club” have been expelled from a Tacoma, Wash., middle school. 
School officials tell The News Tribune they found out about the club when the relative of one partici­pant spoke to a television station about it. KCPQ-TV also aired a cell phone video showing two kids fighting. 
The fights took place at Stewart Middle School and in homes. 
A Tacoma Public Schools spokesman says the school expelled the boys as of Monday. When they can return will be determined on a case-by-case basis, with school officials factor­ing in the students’ disci­plinary histories. 
District officials have told school principals throughout Tacoma to be on the alert for similar clubs. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The seminar “Restricted Latent Class Models for Diagnostic Educational Assessments” will be presented by Alan Huebner today at 4 
p.m. in 129 Hayes-Healy Center. The Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics is sponsoring this presentation. 
The distinguished lecture series “Experimentation in Ancient Medicine: Animals and Humans” will be given today by Dr. Heinrich von Staden from 
4:15 to 6 p.m. in Geddes Hall. Von Staden is the Professor Emeritus at Princeton University and specializes in the Classics and History of Science. 
“Exploring Diversity in Catholicism,” a religious orders panel, will occur tonight at 6 
p.m. 
in DeBartolo 129. The Catholic Graduate Community is hosting a panel of priests from several of the religious orders represented at Notre Dame: Holy Cross, Dominican, Franciscan, Jesuit and parish. 

Janet Kaplan, the 2011 Sandeen Prize Winner, will give a poetry reading from her book, “Dreamlife of a Philanthropist” tonight at 7:30 

p.m. 
at Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The reading is free and open to the public. 


The free lecture “From War-Making to the Cage of Reason 
— Two Logics of State-Building in Latin America and Spain” will be given tomorrow at 4 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Agustin Ferraro, a Visiting Associate Professor from Princeton University, will pres­ent the lecture. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



32 26 HIGH 3741 4027
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


20 20 LOW 3236 2817 







Wednesday, March 2, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 




Members discuss pep rallies, memorial 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives looked ahead to next year as it discussed pep rallies and the endowment established last semester in memory of Declan Sullivan at Tuesday’s meeting. 
Student body president Catherine Soler asked represen­tatives for feedback about the successes and shortcomings of this year’s reformed rallies. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said disproportion­ate attendance between classes was a recurring problem. 
“Usually pep rally attendance is heavily freshman,” he said. “Is there anything that could encourage sophomores, juniors and seniors to come back to the pep rallies?” 
Senior class president Kate Clitheroe said off-campus stu­dents had difficulty accessing the student section at this year’s rallies, especially if they missed the student walkover. 
“Off-campus people are com­ing from Turtle Creek and that direction,” she said. “It’s some­thing to be aware of, that sen­iors may not show up on time.” 
Hall Presidents’ Council co-chair Alexa Doyle said including a new or different feature at rally’s uniqueness could draw upperclassmen who may see the rallies as more of the same. 
“Just make sure each pep rally’s different, that’s the thing,” Burke said. “You go to one and think, ‘Oh, I’m done for the year, I’ve had my fill.’” 
This year, Irish football coach Brian Kelly spoke at the dorms that displayed the most spirit at 
each rally could entice more upper­classmen to attend the ral­lies. 
“My really apathetic off-campus friends came for the fireworks, so I think things like that, gim­micks, work,” Doyle said. 
Student Senate liaison 
“Every year there’s different incentives to get the dorms there because they’re such a key part of the spirit of the pep rallies.” 
Andrew Bell student body vice president 
the pep ral­lies. Bell said he was not sure if this incenti ve would contin­ue but beli eved some sort of similar encourage­ment would be offered next year. 
“Every year there’s differ-
Erin Burke ent incentives to get the dorms 
agreed that ensuring each there because they’re such a 
key part of the spirit of the pep rallies,” he said. 
Following the theme of next year’s athletics, Soler discussed possibly collaborating with the Athletics Office to implement the endowment established follow­ing junior Declan Sullivan’s death last fall. 
“The FMB [Financial Management Board] set up the Declan Sullivan memorial endowment ... It looks like it’s going to be housed in student government. We are just trying to come up with ways we can use [the endowment] to honor Declan for the next 25 years,” she said. “We’ve reached out to the Athletic Department to see if they’d be interested in doing something.” 
Soler said no decisions would be made regarding the endow­ment’s usage until the Sullivan family has been consulted. 


Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



College works with book drive 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s students, fac­ulty and staff reach out to the local community by donating books and videos to the Children’s Book Drive at the College, senior Jennifer Kornexl said. 
The Children’s Book Drive began Feb. 21, and is open to all. 
Kornexl said she felt it was important for Saint Mary’s to donate items for a good cause. 
“The book drive gives peo­ple the chance to donate books and videos that are just collecting dust, ” she said. “These books can then be put to use at organiza­tions in need within the community.” 
Kornexl said new and used children’s books and videos can be donated to the drive. All of the materials collected will be distributed to local programs such as Head Start, St. Margaret’s House, day care centers and the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
According to Kornexl, the drive is held “to provide books for different organiza­tions in the community to use.” 
The book drive is spon ­sored by Saint Mary ’s College Office of Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) in conjunction with REAL Services and the Foster Grandparent Program. 
Kornexl said the organiz­ers of the drive do not have a specific goal but are grate­ful for all materials it receives. 
Materials can be dropped in the following locations: Madeleva Lounge in Madeleva Hall, the mail room in Spes Unica Hall, the Le Mans Hall Front Desk, Havican Hall and the circu­lation desk at the Cushwa Leighton Library. 
The book drive will contin­ue through March 4. 


Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 2, 2011 


Visiting professor speaks on scripture 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Sr. Carolyn Osiek, a visiting professor from Texas Christian University, said scripture can shape one’s growth in God during a lecture Tuesday at Saint Mary’s. 
The lecture, “Scripture and Spirituality: Touching a Finger to the Flame,” is a part of the Center for Spirituality’s spring lecture series. 
“Scripture models and reflects to us how we can be as people of God, as disciples, and as ministers of the Word,” Osiek said. 
Osiek first provided her own definition of scripture. 
“[Scripture is] simply how we live what we believe,” she said. 
Sometimes the dissection of scripture to become more like God can pose quite a daunting task, Osiek said. Community is key to understanding scrip­ture’s role in Christian life. 
“Scripture is a family story nity are people on the move, assembly at the holy place and gathering of the holy ones, Osiek said. 
Disciples look to people on the move to serve as exam­ples of people who travel to share God’s word. Assembly at 
“Scripture models and reflects to us how we can be as people of God, as disciples, and as ministers of the Word.” 
Sr. Carolyn Osiek 
visiting professor 
how do we han­dle the constant shift and changes in our life?” Osiek said. 
Rootedness and companion­ship are both essential on the journey because they provide security, some­thing Osiek con­siders hard to find in this fast-beginning again to share God’s love,” Osiek said. 
The prophet is the rarest category, she said, yet it has never ceased existing in the church. Prophets are those who see what others have yet to see. 
“Prophets have a vision and feel compelled to communica­tion that vision. But, not everyone who feels compelled to communicate is a prophet,” she said. “It doesn’t work both ways.” 
The teacher delights in showing others the way, and the healer delights in making others whole in various aspects of their lives, and repairing damage, she said. 
With all of these models, Osiek encouraged the audi­ence to not just read scripture but to eat it, in the sense of one eating food for nourish­ment. Digesting scripture, she said, nourishes the Christian life and soul. 

Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
important at Notre Dame, where some students face sig­nificant financial burdens. 
“Notre Dame is an expensive place to be. Whether people are working for tuition, or spending money or any other reason, giving students the best opportunity for employ­ment will definitely benefit the student body,” she said. “For something that’s this much of a necessity, with such a demand on campus, there should be an easier way for students to find these opportu­nities.” 
Bell said campus employ­ment offers students more than a paycheck. 
“Beyond the obvious finan­cial benefits, I think having a job is an important part of being a well-rounded person, especially as we look toward leaving Notre Dame as the most well-prepared people,” he said. “This shouldn’t be a difficult process.” 


Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Brain 
continued from page 1 
wounds. 
Chang’s husband, professor Shahriar Mobashery, discovered a compound at Wayne State University called SB-3CT that could be a possible treatment for the brain diseases. Mobashery now teaches at Notre Dame. 
The SB-3CT compound is an inhibitor triggered by the enzyme’s reaction in the cell. 
Chang said a compound like SB-3CT could help stop brain damage similarly to how it helps stroke patients. 
The compound was synthe­sized more than 450 times to find a way to make it water sol­uble, so it can be put into an IV or given to a patient in the form of an injection, Chang said. 
that tells us who we are,” she said. “We belong to a family with a long history.” 
From this family, followers of the faith can draw on the models of community, disciple­ship and ministry to better understand scripture. 
The three models of commu-
Within models of disciple­ship, Osiek outlined the con­cepts of the journey, rooted­ness and companionship. 
“The journey of life is a familiar metaphor. We have personal journeys of discovery … journeys from doubt to faith … from darkness to light, but 
the holy place shows the gen­erations of followers that come in faith, and disciples can learn from the gathering of the holy ones because they are people of the Holy Spirit, Osiek said. 
If all goes well, the drug could be in use with stroke patients in seven to nine years, Chang said. 
“Would this be great to have as an injectable treatment?” she said. “It could be on the sidelines. If you get a concus­sion, you can get a shot. This is eventually our hope.” 
The current drug used to dis­solve clots in ischemic, or clot-forming, stroke patients is tis­sue Plasminogen Activator, or tPA, Chang said. This drug dis­solves the clot, but increases gelatinase enzymes, which causes hemorrhaging and brain swelling. When SB-3CT is given in tandem with this drug in experiments, it has reduced side affects. 
Researchers have developed an experimental model to test compounds. 
“We’re always looking for bet­ter ways to treat,” she said. 
Chang, whose son is a com­petitive snow boarder, wit-paced world. 
Osiek also distinguished four major categories of religious vocation: apostle, prophet, teacher and healer. 
“[The apostle] delights in going to new situations and 
nessed the treatment for TBI when her son had a concussion last year. 
“If you have a concussion, they can do cognitive treat­ment,” she said. “They do sim­ple things. For example, they ask you to list words that begin with the same letter. They also make you take a rest — no physical activity, nothing to rat­tle your brain. They don’t really do anything else.” 
The research team is current­ly searching for funding to have toxicology studies done, which will then put the drug into FDA clinical trials, Chang said. 
She said the team hopes the compound will improve emer­gency response to brain prob­lems. 
“Given in an ambulance set­ting, it would work quickly,” she said. 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Sprint 
continued from page 1 
to show in all of our products,” Hesse said. “Unlimited text, surf, mobile-to-mobile calls and various other data fea­tures starting at $70 per month is a package no other company can beat.” 
In addition to improving 4G coverage, Hesse said Sprint is also developing a Notre Dame ID Pack to be released in the spring. 
A Sprint ID Pack groups applications on a mobile device to organize them for a particu­lar user’s needs. 
“Each mobile marketplace has well over 1,000 apps, so the question of, ‘How do I navi­gate through all of my apps?’ presents itself,” he said. “To answer this, Sprint has intro­duced ID Packs which can be catered to whatever one’s per­sonal interests may be.” 
Sprint built ID Packs for companies such as ESPN and Disney in the past. 
“Notre Dame will be the first university we will be giving this capability to,” Hesse said. “The Notre Dame ID Pack will have everything one may find on the www.nd.edu website, including on-the-go access to an InsideND account, CourseWare files and content on Concourse.” 
Hesse said he hopes to devel­op ID Packs for Notre Dame athletic teams, alumni and 
Irish football coach Brian Kelly with 200 Sprint devices for demo pur­poses. 
Hesse said his experience as a Notre Dame student built the foundation for his company policies. 
Sprint operates on a high level of social responsibility, Hesse said, because of the eth­ical principles he learned as a Notre Dame undergraduate. 
“Newsweek recently ranked Sprint No. six on their list of the 500 Greenest American Companies,” Hesse said. “The next closest mobile carrier was ranked at number 99.” 
Customer service is also important to the company, he said. 
“Sprint’s customer service 
fans as well as for students. has improved The Notre Dame ID Pack will company in be available exclusively on 
Android phones “Simplicity and value 
or tablets. 
are the two qualities
Hesse, a 1975 graduate, said which we attempt to 
he maintains a show in all of our strong connec­
products.” 
tion between the University and his compa-Dan Hesse ny. The compa-CEO ny outfitted 
Sprint 
more than any 
any industry,” Hesse said. “We were recently ranked on the J.D. Power 2011 Customer Service Ch ampi ons list.” 
Notre Dame students should use the lessons they learn dur­ing their four years in college to enter a 
career field they truly love, Hesse said. 
“You must choose something you are truly passionate about and something you will work hard for,” Hesse said. “This University teaches its students lifelong ethical values when, combined with hard work, will take you far.” 


Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 2, 2011 The Observer  NEWS page 5 

Peace 
continued from page 1 
The 40 volunteers worked along the central valley of Chile with campesinos, or farm people, in the region. “We were taking kids from a rich country like the United States to countries that were very poor, and that was quite an adjust­ment to get them to understand what they were walking into and what they could do to help them,” he said. “They helped them with farming and with building their houses and with a whole wide range with upgrad­ing socially, these very poorest people in Chile.” 
Hesburgh continued to advise Shriver as the Peace Corps grew. After five years, he said the small program grew to over 200 sites around the world. 
“I was in their office in Washington very often giving them advice on project and help­ing them develop the Peace Corps in its early years,” he said. “I was involved very heavily the first five years, when Sargent Shriver was going to get start­ed.” 
Kennedy began the program on “a temporary, pilot basis,” in 1961. Fifty years later, 8,655 vol­unteers are stationed around the world. 
“I think it is important to look back on the Peace Corps because it was one of the Kennedy exper­iments that really stood the test of time and did much good to many people, many nations all over the world,” Hesburgh said. “That is not just Peace Corps but that is Notre Dame’s mission too. That is why we fit in so well with the Peace Corps. To this day we have people volunteering for Peace Corps.” 
The University is currently ranked 18th among medium-sized universities producing Peace Corps volunteers. 
Hesburgh said the connection between Notre Dame and the Peace Corps runs deeply into the University’s mission. 
“We have a student body that even during college years helps all over the place in social action programs like tutoring or work­ing with the poor,” he said. “It is a natural fit with Peace Corps. We have students who are both intelligent and generous, and some are good in languages, and all of that helps with Peace Corps.” 
Twenty-five Notre Dame grad­uates currently serve among the 200,000 Peace Corps volunteers around the world. 
“[The Peace Corps] fits in exactly with Notre Dame and its goals. We train people to work for social justice,” Hesburgh said. “This was a question of going into an unjust world, a world in economic imbalance between the very rich and the very poor and somehow bridging over and helping the poor move up in life by having better confi­dence as farmers or workers.” 
The Peace Corps is currently engaged in 77 countries. Hesburgh said he visited Peace Corps sites whenever possible as he traveled around the world on other business and met many volunteers over the years. 
“It was a wonderful feeling of generosity on the part of these young people who were willing to give up two years of their lives after they graduated college,” he said. “They could have gone out and made money, and instead they went into the Peace Corps where they made practically nothing but served the poor all over the world.” 


Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Gingrich prepares for likely White House bid 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY— The biggest obstacle to a Newt Gingrich presidential bid might be Gingrich himself. 
The twice-divorced former 
U.S. House speaker has admit­ted an affair with a former con­gressional aide who is now his third wife. His career in Congress is remembered as much for his dramatic fall — the federal government shutdown, his censure and the loss of Republican seats in the House 
— as his rise. His polarizing style sometimes leaves would-be voters cold. 
"I don't think it will be Newt's moral issues that will keep him from winning the presidency," said Tom Perdue, a Georgia-based GOP political strategist. "When he had a chance to gov­ern, he proved that he couldn't." 
Unlike many candidates, Gingrich won't have to struggle to make a name for himself. 
People already know Newt Gingrich. What remains to be seen is whether that hurts or helps him. 
"The problem for Newt may be that some voters know him too well," said Ed Failor Jr. of Iowans for Tax Reform. "I think people can get past it, but it's not going to happen overnight." 
Failor met with Gingrich on one of Gingrich's recent trips to Iowa, the first-in-the-nation caucus state he has visited eight times since May 2010. The strategy Gingrich is using in Iowa provides a glimpse of how he might try to overcome his personal baggage to win the GOP nomination. 
Gingrich, 67, is widely expect­ed to take another step toward a run this week. He and his wife, Callista, have scheduled a meet­ing Thursday with Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal, a key supporter. Gingrich's lawyer, Randy Evans, has said the former Georgia congressman will announce the formation of an exploratory committee in the coming days and he expects it will happen in Georgia. 
As media attention surround­ing the Georgia visit intensified, his spokesman Rick Tyler took pains to suggest that Gingrich was not traveling to the state with the intention to announce that he will form the committee. 
The trip is funded by his tax-exempt conservative group America Solutions for Winning the Future, which cannot endorse specific political candi­dates. Gingrich will hold a media session with Deal follow­ing their meeting. 
If Gingrich announces Thursday, he would become the first Republican to get into the race, giving him extra time to answer questions about his past and then try to turn the focus toward issues. as media atten­tion intensified about the trip, campaign took pains to separate itself from America group and presidential ambitions resources used via group be used for presidential 
Any doubts that his personal life would flare up were erased during a speech at the University of Pennsylvania last week where a student confront­ed him about the affair. 
"I've had a life which, on occasion, has had problems," Gingrich replied. "I believe in a forgiving God, and the American people will have to decide whether that's their primary concern. If the primary concern of the American people is my past, my candidacy would be irrelevant. If the primary con­cern of the American people is the future ... that's a debate I'll be happy to have with your can­didate or any other candidate if I decide to run." 
Supporters say he must take on his past directly, and quickly. 
"I think those questions will be asked," said Iowa House Majority Leader Linda Upmeyer, who is already backing Gingrich. "I think it'd be foolish to think: 'Oh, that was a long time ago. They probably won't think about that.'" 
Not everyone is willing to let him off the hook. 
"Newt Gingrich's election would send a terrible signal to anyone who's working to live a morally upright life," said Jerry Luquire, head of the Georgia Christian Coalition. "I would find it very hard to vote for him." 


page 6 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 2, 2011 
LIBYA 



Refugees flee violent tumult 


Associated Press 
GENEVA — Violence and chaos in Libya have triggered an exodus of more than 140,000 refugees to Tunisia and Egypt, a U.N. official said, as aid workers warned the situa­tion at the Tunisian border has reached crisis point. 
Officials say the situation has been made even more volatile by humanitarian aid workers being blocked from reaching western Libya, patients report­edly being executed in hospi­tals, or shot by gunmen hiding in ambulances 
At the Libya-Tunisian border 
— where authorities say up to 75,000 people have gathered in just nine days — “the situation is reaching crisis point,” U.N. refugee agency spokeswoman Melissa Fleming warned Tuesday. 
She said 14,000 people fled to Tunisia on Monday and another 15,000 are expected to flee Tuesday. 
The U.N. is setting up enough tents to hold 12,000 people and plans two more airlifts Thursday to bring in tents and supplies for 10,000 more, but water supplies are “precari­ous,” she warned. 
Italy said late Tuesday after an emergency meeting on the Libya crisis that it will send a humanitarian mission to the Tunisian border to assist some 10,000 refugees. 
In Egypt, authorities said another 69,000 people have fled into the country from Libya in the past 10 days, most of them Egyptians who have already been taken to other towns and cities. 
Thousands of Vietnamese and Bangladeshis at the Libyan side of the border with Tunisia are “in urgent need of food, water and shelter,” said Jemini Pandya, a spokeswoman for the International Organization for Migration. Nepalese, Ghanaians and Nigerians are also sleeping unprotected at the borders, she added. 
“With thousands of migrants still awaiting authorization to enter Tunisia, there is an urgent need to decongest the border area which lacks ade­quate facilities to host large numbers of people,” IOM’s Tunisia mission chief Marc Petzold said. 
IOM officials say many thou­sands of people are also strand­ed at Libya’s Benghazi port in cold weather and with scant supplies of food. The organiza­tion said it is trying to arrange evacuation for those people by boat to Alexandria in Egypt. 
Thousands of Vietnamese, Egyptians, Indians, Turks, Tunisians, Chinese and Thai laborers are streaming across the border at Ras Adjir, in Tunisia lugging mattresses, blankets, overstuffed duffel bags and suitcases on wheels. Some recount memories of being subjected to mock execu­tions as they knelt in front of the Libyan army, or of hiding in the desert while awaiting res­cue. 
Fleeing workers were also being targeted by opponents of Gadhafi, mistaking them for mercenaries allegedly being used to quash the rebellion that has swept through large parts of the country, said aid officials speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals. 
The Libyan embassy in Vienna — which has turned its back on Gadhafi, as have other delegations in New York and Geneva — described the “repression and premeditated murder of the Libyan popula­tion” as “terrible and indescrib­able.” 
Embassy staff issued a state­ment urging Gadhafi to “sum­mon his courage and make public an immediate and deter­mined decision in which he meets the demands of the peo­ple to resign to prevent more bloodshed.” 
Fleming said refugees have described people being targeted and killed, and other said they were trapped, threatened and hunted. 
“Others tell us about forced evictions and attacks on their homes,” she said 
International Committee of the Red Cross spokeswoman Anna Newton said ambulances and hospitals were being “mis­used” in ways that threatened the lives of people trapped in the unrest. 
She said her organization was trying to prevent “credible” but unspecified reports of an unde­termined number of patients being executed in Libyan hospi­tals. 
German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle on Tuesday urged the U.N. to appoint some­one to coordinate efforts in Libya, and serve as the face of the international community there. “We need a U.N. special envoy to and for Libya,” he told reporters. 
YEMEN 


President blames U.S., Israel for recent unrest 
Associated Press 

SANAA — Yemen's embat­tled president on Tuesday accused the U.S., his closest ally, of instigating the mounting protests against him, but the gambit failed to slow the momentum for his ouster. 
Hundreds of thousands rallied in cities across Yemen against the govern­ment of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, in the largest of the protests of the past month, including one addressed by an influential firebrand cleric, a former ally of Saleh, whom the U.S. has linked to al-Qaida. 
"Go on until you achieve your demands, " Sheik Abdul-Majid al-Zindani told tens of thousands of demon­strators in the capital of Sanaa. A former U.S. ambas­sador to Yemen called al­Zindani's decision to turn against President Ali Abdullah Saleh a major set­back for the president. 
Some warned that the cur­rent political turmoil and possible collapse of Saleh's regime could give a further opening to Yemen's offshoot of the global terror network, al -Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. 
James Jones, former White House National Security Advisor, warned a Washington conference that Yemen's crisis "could deepen the current vacuum of power in Yemen on which al Qaida has thrived." 
The Yemen-based al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, believed to have been involved in the attempted 2009 bombing of an American airliner, is seen as particularly active and threatening to the U.S. 
Saleh has been a weak but important U.S. ally in the fight against al -Qaida, accepting tens of millions of dollars in U.S. military and 
other aid and allowing American drone strikes on al-Qaida targets. 



Wednesday, March 2, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Governor defends budget under Union pressure 

Associated Press care benefits. And the governor an environment where the pri-By eliminating most collective effect later this year. whose cost-cutting ideas have vate sector can create 250,000 bargaining, Walker says, state The budget also cuts funding at 
MADISON, Wis. — After focus-stirred a national debate over jobs over the next four years.” agencies, local governments and most state agencies, by 10 per­ing for weeks on his proposal to public-sector unions gave no indi-Walker’s legislation has drawn school districts will have flexibility cent, except for salary and bene­strip public employees of collec-cation he would soften his tens of thousands of demonstra-to react quickly to the cuts. fits. tive bargaining rights, Gov. Scott demand to reduce their power at tors to the Capitol over the last Even though Walker isn’t order-He would permanently elimi-Walker on Tuesday presented his the negotiating table. three weeks, and tensions were ing immediate layoffs of state nate 735 positions that have been full budget — a plan that cuts “This is a reform budget,” still evident when Walker outlined workers, his budget will put vacant for more than a year. $1.5 billion in aid to public Walker told lawmakers inside the the budget during a joint session tremendous pressure on schools Some other jobs could be cut, but schools and local government but Assembly chamber as protesters of the Legislature convened under and local governments, which will no widespread layoffs were envi­avoids any tax or fee increases, on the floor below screamed, heavy security. Assembly be asked to shoulder huge cuts sioned. State spending over the furloughs or widespread layoffs. banged on drums and blew Democrats refused to stand and without raising property taxes to next two years would go up a pal-
Walker said the cuts could be horns. “It is about getting greet the governor as he arrived make up the difference. try 1.3 percent. paid for in large part by forcing Wisconsin working again, and to to speak. Walker’s budget includes a Walker targeted many law government employees to pay make that happen, we need a bal-“It feels like we’re announcing nearly 9 percent cut in aid to changes passed by Democrats in more for their pension and health anced budget that works — and a going-out-of-business sale,” schools, which would amount to a recent years. 
said state Rep. Cory Mason, a reduction of nearly $900 million. He wants to undo changes Democrat from Racine who criti-The governor also proposed made by Democrats to allow pris­cized Walker’s proposed cuts to requiring school districts to oners to earn time off their sen-education. reduce their property tax authori-tences for good behavior. Instead, 
Walker’s budget places “the ty by an average of $550 per Walker would reinstitute a truth-entire burden of Wisconsin’s pupil — a move that makes it in-sentencing law that he spon­budget shortfall on our children, more difficult for schools to make sored while a member of the our most vulnerable citizens in up the lost money. Assembly. need of health care and long-term Additionally, cities would get He would no longer allow chil­care, and our dedicated public nearly $60 million less in aid, an dren of illegal immigrants who employees,” said Robert Kraig, 8.8 percent cut, while counties attend state universities and col-director of the consumer advoca-would lose more than $36 million, leges to pay in-state tuition. cy group Citizen Action of a 24 percent reduction. They As expected, Walker proposed Wisconsin. would not be allowed to increase removing the flagship Madison 
Doing so is Walker’s “own value property taxes except to account campus from the University of choice, not an economic necessity for new construction. Wisconsin system, leaving 12 forced on him by others,” Kraig Walker estimates that his con-other four-year campuses and 13 said. trols on property taxes would two-year universities. The system 
The governor released his two-save $736 over the next two years has been ordered to study a simi­year budget in part to support his for the owner of a home valued at lar move for the Milwaukee cam-argument that public-worker the median price of $161,300. pus. concessions are essential to con-He proposed a $500 million cut Over the next several months, front a projected $3.6 billion to Medicaid, which would be the Legislature will review shortfall. His proposal to elimi-achieved through a number of Walker’s budget and offer revi­nate most collective bargaining changes that include increasing sions, with the expectation that remains in limbo after Senate co-payments and deductibles and lawmakers would vote by early Democrats fled the state to pre-requiring participants in summer. vent a vote. SeniorCare to be enrolled in It wasn’t clear when Senate 
Wisconsin “cannot grow if our Medicare Part D, too. Democrats would return to take people are weighed down paying Walker asked for $82 million in up his collective bargaining pro-for a larger and larger govern-tax cuts, including an expanded posal. Walker said in his speech ment, a government that pays its exclusion for capital gains real-that their inaction could lead to workers unsustainable benefits ized on investments made in thousands of layoffs in order to that are out of line with the pri-Wisconsin-based businesses. The balance the budget, but decisions vate sector,” he said. “We need a Legislature previously approved on whether to cut teachers and leaner and cleaner state govern-more than $117 million in other local government employ­ment.” Walker-backed tax cuts that take ees are not up to Walker. 

Houseshutdownaverted; Gov’tvotesforbudgetcuts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The House passed emergency short-term legislation Tuesday to cut feder­al spending by $4 billion and avert a government shutdown. Senate Democrats agreed to fol­low suit, handing Republicans an early victory in their drive to rein in government. 
The bill that cleared the House on a bipartisan vote of 335-91 eliminates the threat of a shutdown on March 4, when existing funding authority expires. At the same time, it creates a compressed two-week timeframe for the White House and lawmakers to engage in what looms as a highly con­tentious negotiation on a follow­up bill to set spending levels through the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year. 
The Senate set a vote on the short-term measure for Wednesday morning, the final step before it goes to President Barack Obama for his signature. “We’ll pass this and then look at funding the government on a long-term basis,” said Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev. 
The White House, which earli­er in the day called publicly for an interim measure of up to five weeks, stopped short of saying the president would sign the legislation. 
“The President is encouraged by the progress Congress is making towards a short-term agreement,” the president’s spokesman, Jay Carney, said. “Moving forward, the focus needs to be on both sides find­ing common ground in order to reach a long-term solution that removes the kind of uncertainty that can hurt the economy and job creation.” 
House Republicans were more eager to draw attention to the bill that was passing with the acquiescence of the White House and Democrats than to the challenge yet ahead. 
“Now that congressional Democrats and the administra­tion have expressed an open­ness for spending cuts, the momentum is there for a long­term measure that starts to finally get our fiscal house in order,” said Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia. 
“Changing the culture of bor­rowing and spending in Washington is no small feat, but I am heartened by today’s action and it shows that Republicans have started to make the mean­ingful changes that voters called for in the last election.” 
The GOP won control of the House and gained seats in the Senate last fall with the backing of tea party activists demanding deep cuts in spending and other steps to reduce the federal gov­ernment. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Wednesday, March 2, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
All aboard the bandwagon 
It’s that time of year. With the NHL and NBA trade deadlines passed, the playoff races are in full swing. That means one thing: bandwagon season. 
Like many sports fans, I used to hate bandwagoners. It always made me furious when peo­ple who knew nothing about a team suddenly became fans when they started winning or the playoffs came 

Sam Gans 
around. This was fur-
Sports 
ther amplified 
Production Editor 
two years ago. Being from a Columbus suburb, I am a diehard Blue Jackets fan (yes, we exist) — my family has season tickets, I’ve been to about 150 games, I can name the entire roster 
— all that stuff. 
(A quick disclaimer: I’m not saying that anyone who doesn’t attend any games or doesn’t know every detail is a bandwag­oner, as long as they care through the struggles and always have a general idea what is happening.) 
After eight years of brutal hockey, they finally qualified for the playoffs in 2009. Naturally, everyone was a fan, starting in March near the end of the regular sea­son. People that had made fun of me a year prior were now joining me and the other “real” Jacket fans. While I was happy there was a lot of buzz generated, it was upsetting that people who could only name a few players were acting as if they knew everything about the team. Of course, four playoff games and zero play­off wins later (thanks, Red Wings), most of the bandwagoners jumped off. 
But a strange thing happened. With the Jackets knocked out, I felt a bit of a lull in my sports world. So I became the one thing I couldn’t stand: a bandwagoner. 
I had never really followed the NBA. But at that time, the NBA playoffs were just underway, and I chose one of the league’s best, the Cleveland Cavaliers, as “my team.” Though I have no connection to Cleveland — and I emphasize that — and I’m not a Browns or Indians fan (Titans and Mets, both long stories) I decided to pull for the home state team. Plus, they had a superstar with a cool French-sounding first name (he’s no longer with the team, but I doubt he’s that good. French players rarely are.) 
That experience changed my perspec­tive on bandwagon fans. I realized that it was okay to be one. It could even lead to one following more passionately in the future, a good thing (I’m a bigger Cavs fan now than when “that one guy” was there.) However, a bandwagoner has to know his or her place, which includes not acting like he or she knows every­thing about the team or acting like he or she has always been a huge fan. And, of course, the joys of winning will never be as sweet to bandwagoners as those who dealt with the hardships. 
With the Jackets in the midst of a play­off race (the Cavs … not so much), I’m sure the entire city of Columbus is start­ing to get amped up again. Unlike two years ago, I now say “hop on.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


The future of books 
Books have been a remarkably con­stant artistic creation for thousands of years. We flip through the pages of Homer’s epic poetry of 2,700 years ago in much the same way as we might Stephen King’s epic Dark Tower Series. So too with the mus­ings of Marcus Aurelius and the autobiography of Bill Clinton. The characters of Euripides jump from written 

Edward Larkin 
words to our mind just as 
Scientific 
Jonathan 
Notation 
Franzen’s. This durability is all the more impressive against the back­drop of changes in other art forms — compare the Athenian acropolis to the New York City skyline; Greek vase paintings to da Vinci’s Mona Lisa to Norman Rockwell; the plays of Shakespeare to Avatar or Inception. Surely this timelessness is part of the book’s appeal. Reading a great story is no small emotional investment. It is an intimate endeavor that asks from us just as much as it provides. But can books survive in the modern world? Some commentators have cas­tigated modernity as too fragmented and fast-paced for the novel to remain relevant, what with Twitter, blogging and the 24-hour news cycle. 
Philosopher Marshall McLuhan called books a “hot” media — they require a lot of effort. Contrast this with TV, a “cool” media — not diffi­cult to consume, a lot of stimulation in reward. We are forced to assimilate all the details of a book into a coher­ent whole, to take words and create pictures. We are asked to come back again and again, sitting after sitting, slowly inching along. No matter how exquisite a movie or how beautiful a monument, books are fundamentally different. Their beauty is in the mind 
— a great book written on paper nap­kins is still better than a lesser one, no matter how well packaged. This might seem like a dying art in the modern age. Even the most fantastical worlds can be portrayed on TV and movie screens all over the world. Why should we bother with the effort of constructing worlds when we don’t have to? 
There are many pieces of evidence that seem to suggest that books are past their prime. Nicholas Carr laments in his 2008 piece in The Atlantic, “Is Google Making Us Stoopid?” that the rise of the Internet makes it harder for him to focus on reading difficult or extended material, saying that the internet is inherently designed to “scatter our attention,” unlike the focusing effect of novels. MIT psychologist Sherry Turkle agrees in her recent book, “Alone Together.” She argues that the culture of the novel is dying, with harmful societal consequences. She points to studies that reveal a startling lack of empathy among modern college stu­dents and asserts that other research has shown that reading novels increases one’s capacity for empathy. Surveys consistently show that Americans are reading fewer books per year compared to the past decades. Thus, the situation appears very dire indeed. 
However, we humans seem to have an innate tendency for melodrama. Ironically, 2,500 years ago Socrates warned that books cause us to be for­getful. And while this may be true (the advent of the written word made bards like Homer who could memo­rize entire epics like the Iliad obso­lete) books have come to be a cultur­ally beneficial development on the whole. There is reason for optimism despite the perceived full-frontal assault on reading. Technology is making books of all sorts more acces­sible than ever. Rather than trekking to a bookstore, you can now buy and read eBooks instantaneously from Barnes & Noble or Amazon, usually for much lower prices. Many of the classics are free online through Google Books and other sources. 
To be sure, the Internet and elec­tronics will cause the craft of writing to change. However, this need not be a cause of alarm. Authors will have more tools at their disposal to display their mastery. Imagine reading an eBook where the page color changes slightly according to the mood, music plays at different times to heighten the drama or the background matches the setting in the novel. Pictures and live content could be added seamless­ly to augment the narrative. Maybe you don’t understand a particular ref­erence or allusion. Click on the phrase, and a concise bubble pops up to explain it or you are rerouted to a Wikipedia page. These developments will make reading a more rewarding, textured experience, and certainly allow new methods for artistic expression on the part of authors. 

What about the charge that reading extended narratives simply doesn’t fit in modern society? This charge over­looks a fundamental aspect of human nature, something that can’t simply be ameliorated by Twitter or TV. We deeply desire the satisfactions provid­ed by novels — getting to know char­acters intimately, following detailed stories to their conclusion over a long period of time. Reading is the form of the art that most mirrors reality — unlike two hour movies, the time frame often fits with our lives. 
As we read books, they become a part of us. We read F. Scott Fitzgerald, and while engrossed in the world of Gatsby, start to notice the gilded things around us. We read Orwell and become heightened to the darker side of politics; we read The Picture of Dorian Gray and look in the mirror a little differently. No matter how laudable the acting performances or how profound the Tweet, we desire the granular detail and extended pleasures of books. It is this essential desire that has given books their pro­found power and immutability since the dawn of writing, and it is this same desire that will ensure that they remain relevant, in some form or other, as we march towards the future. 
Edward Larkin is a senior majoring in biological sciences and classical civiliza­tion. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Proud to be a Notre Dame alumna 
Dear student section, 

Monday night’s basketball game brought tears to my eyes. Not because of the players, but because of you. You are a classy bunch — first with your pride in the student section, then with your audible support of every player on the bench and on the court and finally with your chant thanking the seniors. You made me proud to be a Notre Dame graduate, and I just wanted to write in and say thank you. 
Go Irish! 

Carly Murphy 
alumna 
Class of 2001, 2002 
Mar. 1 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I love you the more that I believeyou have liked me for my own sakeand for nothing else.” 
John Keats English lyric poet 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Silence is one of the hardest arguments to refute.” 
Josh Billings
U.S. humorist 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 

Wednesday, March 2, 2011 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
America’s need for unions 
When discussing the events revolving around the protests occurring in many state capitols such as Wisconsin and Indiana, there is a need for clarification: Unions in their entirety only represent less than one-fourth of the entire United States workforce. What does this mean? It is false when union workers claim that the bills being discussed in State Capitols, which are restricting or even annihilating bargaining rights, are an assault on the rights of workers. It’s in fact a hyperbole! Doing nothing with respect to the “rights” of the few whose salary increases every year with­out an end in sight despite what is going on in the rest of the economy is an actual assault on the true workforce of our great nation — small businesses, the backbone of America! If people begin to forget this simple fact and put forward instead the agendas of power hungry unions, then our land of opportunism has converted into the land of crybabies clamoring for what they think is rightfully theirs to keep, or as Friedrich von Hayek coins it, the road to serfdom. 
I dare say that without unions, living wages would incre­mentally rise. With more opportunities for private individu­als to invest and improve markets previously dominated by labor unions, such as transportation and public education, efficiency would rise and even more opportunities would reveal themselves. To put this in perspective, the fundamen­tal problem Americans face is the lack of having real choice. Parents can’t choose which public school they want to send their kids to, which is why charter schools are catching on in popularity. Why? Because they offer choice and efficiency, something their public school counterparts lack. With our current system we are under the tyranny of monopolies, and that is why we do not need unions. 
Juan Manuel Segura 
freshman Fisher Hall Mar. 1 



Prejudice runs deeper 
Holden, 
I agree that it must be annoying to be assumed to be an ath­lete (“Non-athlete shirts a reminder,” Mar. 1), but I think that the problem goes deeper than that annoyance. Many people will claim that they make this assumption because such a large per­centage of black people at Notre Dame are athletes that it is just statistically probable that you are an athlete, but this is really an excuse. 
Our society is accustomed to seeing black athletes on a regu­lar basis, but the majority of our culture is still uncomfortable with the idea of black intellectuals. The roots of this prejudice are obvious. So when someone sees you on campus, their initial reaction is to assume that you are an athlete because they have trouble with the idea that you could actually be intelligent enough to get in to Notre Dame without the aid of athletics. It’s not so much active discrimination as acquired prejudice that dominant culture has thrust upon all of us. It is not the fault of anyone exposed to it, but we each have a duty to make a con­scious effort to combat those prejudices. To me, the non-athlete shirts symbolize a commitment to that effort. 

Alex Andre 
sophomore Stanford Hall Mar. 1 




The real kings of the Oscar 
With “The King’s Speech” winning three out of the four major awards at the 83rd Annual Academy Awards this past Sunday, the real win­ners were Harvey and Bob Weinstein, the co-chairmen of The Weinstein Company and founders of now defunct Miramax. Although I wanted “The Social Network” to win Best Picture and David Fincher to win Best Director, I do rec­ognize that ‘The King’s Speech’ was a very well made movie that was headed by its strong cast. However, the Weinstein brothers once again showed why they are the masters at maneuver­ing through the politics of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in order to deliver Oscar nominations and wins. 
Since 1989, movies produced under companies headed by the Weinstein brothers have been nominated for best picture twenty times, with four of those being wins. Some years they had multiple movies that were nominated for best picture. For example, in 2002, “Chicago,” “Gangs of New York” and “Hours” were all produced by Miramax and nominated for Best Picture, with “Chicago” receiving the golden statue. The Weinstein Brothers have crafted several success­ful campaigns to win Oscars, but the biggest prize, Best Picture, is something they put all their efforts in. 
In 1998, “Shakespeare in Love” beat “Saving Private Ryan” and “The Thin Red Line” — two films that have changed the way war films are made. For the first time ever a romantic comedy won Best Picture, defeating the legendary Steven Spielberg and one of his masterpieces. Other notable wins include ‘The English Patient” edg­ing out “Fargo” and “Jerry Maguire,” and “Chicago” prevailing over “The Pianist” and “The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers,” respectively. 

Now I am giving these facts in order to illus­trate one thing — that the Academy is run by politics and throughout its history has failed to recognize and reward true talent. Alfred Hitchcock, possibly the greatest and most influ­ential director of all time, was nominated for Best Director five times and never won. Stanley Kubrick, another big screen legend, was nomi­nated for Best Director four times and never won. Controversial Best Picture snubs include “2001: A Space Odyssey,” “Close Encounters of the Third Kind,” “Rear Window,” “Vertigo,” “Psycho,” “The Birds,” “Empire Strikes Back” (the best Star Wars movie by the way), “Blade Runner,” “The Usual Suspects” and “Memento.” 
Now what does this mean about the Oscars if the Academy has failed to acknowledge truly great films? An Oscar is a meaningless award — the real measure of films is not measured by how many golden statues it wins, but how it changes the medium and is remembered by the audience. Ten years from now I will not remember “The King’s Speech,” but I will remember “The Social Network” and “Inception.” David Fincher and Christopher Nolan will most likely never win an Oscar. The Weinstein Company will continue to produce Oscar bait. 
Well, for the Academy? They can keep watch­ing movies that remind them of the Golden Age of cinema because for now, the top keeps on spinning and spinning. 
Bryan Dimas 
sophomore Stanford Hall Mar. 1 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 




Scene

page 10 Wednesday, March 2, 2011 

You probably haven’t visited a lot of places on campus. You’ve been to the Grotto, the Hesburgh Library, South Dining Hall and the Main Building. You’ve attended a theatrical perform­ance, gone to hip hop night, seen the Keenan Revue (pre-SAO revisions), eaten at all the campus cafés and attended a Mass in the Basilica. 
You think you’ve seen everything worth seeing. But you have probably never been to the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, which houses the spectacu­lar Fritts Organ. 
The instrument dominates the room: It cost $1 million and took a year to con­struct from the wood of an 800-year-old Douglas Fir. The most intriguing part of the room is not the organ’s intricate carvings representing the four elements, or the blue-sheathed lights hanging from the ceiling. It is the small stuffed bird perched on the mantle above the key­board. It’s like something out of a child’s, “Can you find the objects in this pic­ture?” puzzle. 
Can you spot the stuffed animal amidst the shiny golden wood of the organ? And what is a child’s toy doing on this outra­geously large and expensive instrument? 
Craig Cramer, professor of music, said during his first years of teaching, he dis­couraged his students from improperly saying “et cetera.” During his lectures, he would say, “quack” in the place of “et cetera.” His students picked up on this, and stuffed ducks began appearing everywhere. 
The duck that resides on the organ used to perch on the organ in Crowley Hall. After the Fritts Organ was installed, someone moved the duck to the center as a joke, and it has been there ever since. The duck has only been removed on one occasion, during the first student recital when a student couldn’t stand to perform with the duck staring at him. 
Across from the organ and its duck is a smaller but far more intricate Italian organ, built in Naples around 1680. This organ is a recent addition to the University, allowing students and guests to perform Italian organ music on an original antique organ. There are fewer than a dozen organs of this type in the United States, making the Italian organ a truly rare gem. 

Guest performances by outside musi­cians are held about three times per year. In March and April, nearly a dozen masters of sacred music graduate stu­dents and organ performance under­graduates will perform recitals. Whether one seeks to appreciate fine music or to look for the out-of-place stuffed bird, a performance in the hall is definitely an experience every Notre Dame student should have. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Suzanna Pratt at spratt2@nd.edu 

Bottom right photo courtesy of Craig Cramer 
The Observer 


Scene

Wednesday, March 2, 2011 page 11 

Special thanks toAnna Bushlack and Craig Cramer. 
Visit ndsmcobserver.com to view the full photo gallery. 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 2, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 


Men’s volleyball takes third at Indiana Classic 
Women’s hockey drops a pair of close contests to Maulers; cycling finishes first in time trial at contest in St. Louis 
weekend strong on Friday University. After splitting the Freshman Emily Siebert 20th place in a field of 50 rid-
Special To The Observer 

night with a 9-4 win over first four games in a best of and Saint Mary’s freshman ers. Sophomore Michael Tonzi 
The Irish had another long -time rival Michigan five series, the Irish came up Kelsey Teske posted big was the best of the five Irish record setting weekend, as State. Junior Maisie O’Malley a little short in the final game scores on the day. Teske’s 8.5 riders to start, and finished they took 3rd place at the led the Irish offensively, tally-despite a high scoring effort. on floor and 7.8 on beam with the leaders in 11th over­2011 Hoosier-Illini Classic. ing five goals for the Irish. earned her 19th place and all. The Irish dominated Senicr Ali Durkin added two Women’s Ice Hockey 18th place, respectively, Fifty miles into the men’s A-Saturday ’s play, and won goals and junior Erin Gibson’s The Irish dropped a pair of while Siebert’s 8.35 on floor team race, sophomore Joe their pool with ease, defeat-six steals helped lead the close games this weekend to and 8.1 on beam earned her Magro went over the top of ing Marquette (25-18, 25-22), Irish to victory over the the Mystique Maulers of 22nd and 16th, respectively, the largest climb on the University of Illinois-Chicago Spartans. Dubuque, Iowa. in a large women’s field. The course with three other rid­(25-23, 25-21), and Lakeland The Irish continued their Sophomore Caitlin Ryan Irish women placed seventh ers, two who are professional (25-21, 25-20). After clinch-success Saturday morning scored first for the Irish in all -around despite strong riders, with a slight advan­ing the top spot in their origi-with a 7-3 win over the the opening period of the first total scores of 30.1 from tage over the remaining field. nal pool the Irish were University of Iowa. O’Malley’s game. She broke away from Teske, 28.15 from sophomore This group was never caught paired off with another pool excellent shooting from the the pack and found the top Katie Carney and 22.7 from and Magro finished in sev­winner, Purdue, which would outside led the Irish to victo-shelf for the only first-period freshman Katheryn Snyder. enth place out of 45 starters, determine seeding in ry. She had five goals, while goal in the contest. Competing for the Irish men and was the top finisher of Sunday’s tournament play. Gibson and sophomore Ryan added one more for were ND senior Patrick the Division -II riders. The Irish handled the Victoria Anglin each added the Irish, but the Maulers Gorman, and juniors Mike Graduate student Douglas Boilermakers with ease, one. Gibson also drew three were too much, finishing the Hannigan and Kyle Sandberg. Ansel rode well and was able defeating them in straight ejections and Durkin drew game with a 5-3 win. On the men’s side, junior to finish a career best 16th sets (25-17, 25-21). four to help put the points on The Irish lost another hotly Kyle Sandberg’s strong score place. 
The Irish entered Sunday’s the scoreboard for the Irish. contested game 4-3 to close of 12.1 on floor was good The Irish competed Sunday tournament as the No. 3 seed The Irish lost a tough 7-4 the series. Freshman Maddie enough to earn him eighth in in the Criterium. The course overall, and were matched up game in front of a home Schneeman, senior captain a very strong men’s field. was one kilometer long with a against a national top-ten crowd to their rivals from the Karen Riedl and Ryan each Other strong performances short steep climb into the 
opponent, Virginia Tech. University of Florida on registered a goal as the Irish included junior Mike wind every lap. After losing the first game of Saturday night. Senior Eileen fell just short in their come-Hanningan’s fifth-place finish In men’s C, Tonzi and the match 25-23, the Irish Flanagan supported the Irish back. on rings with a score of 12.4 O’Donnell were able to hang rebounded and blew out the defense with 13 saves in the and sixth all-around with a with the main field and both Hokies in the final two net. After a rough first half, Squash score of 61. Senior Patrick finished in the top-20 overall. games, 25-13, 15-7. the Irish came back strong in The ND Squash Club joined Gorman finished just behind Corcoran hovered just behind 
In the semifinals against the third quarter with two 63 other teams competing at Hannigan, placing eighth in the main field the entire race Ohio State, the Irish jumped goals from Gibson to help the CSA Men’s National the all-around with a 55.5. and finished nearly 30 sec-out to a fast start. Although close the gap, but the Irish Squash Championships at The Irish will travel to onds behind the lead group. they wavered in game two, couldn’t get enough goals to Harvard this weekend. Ypsilanti to compete at After 10 minutes of racing, they were able to defeat the overcome the Gators. Enduring heartbreaking Eastern Michigan University’s half of the men’s A field had Buckeyes in an intense, After their loss Saturday losses to Ithaca, 5-4, and annual Michigan Madness been dropped by the leaders three-game match (25-20, 26-night, the Irish came back Illinois 5-4, the squash team meet on March 26. and pulled from competition. 28, 15-11). strong with a 9-3 win over returned with a disappointing Ansel was not able to finish 
The Irish faced off against Texas A&M. They stepped up 2-3 record and ninth place Cycling the race, but Magro hung in perennial powerhouse and their offense with the help of finish in the Hawthorn G MWCC racing at the lead group for 46 of the conference rival UW-Oshkosh Gibson, who recorded five Division. Lindenwood College in St. race’s 60 minutes. One of in the championship. Though goals, and O’Malley, who Exceptional effort was dis-Louis, Mo. started on only three non-varsity riders the Irish defeated the Titans added four herself. Flanagan played by No. 1 sophomore Saturday morning with the in the lead group and one of earlier in the month, Oshkosh was outstanding in the net Ryan Gisriel, who saved ten Men ’s C-team time trial. five total to finish the race, was on top of their game on with 17 saves. match points in a thrilling Notre Dame worked well Magro finished in 18th posi-Sunday. After falling behind five -game victory over together and won the 20 kilo-tion and scored more confer-early, the Irish fought their Bowling Illinois. Notable players meter race by over 90 sec-ence and nationals qualifica­way back into the game, but Notre Dame competed in included No. 8 junior Matt onds. tion points. dropped the first set 25-23. the American Heartland Sushinsky and No. 9 senior The road races were Facing elimination, the Irish Conference Championships Kenny Schlax, who both went Saturday afternoon, and the Disc Golf played great defense to steal for the first time under head 5-0 for an undefeated tourna-men’s C-team completed one The MIDGC came to South a game-two victory 25-23. coach Dan Dews this past ment. 25 mile circuit while the Bend on Saturday, bringing However, the Titans’ powerful weekend. After a slow start, The club lost also to Bard, men ’s A-squad completed with it a team of five from serving proved too much for the Irish received the No. 24 6-3, but defeated Siena twice 3.25 mile circuits. The course Ferris State to compete the Irish in the third set, and seed in a field of 32 teams. by 9-0 scores. was the most difficult in the against six on the Irish Notre Dame lost its first Despite the low seed, which conference, with five major squad. The snow and 30 ­match of the weekend 15-9. paired the Irish with the No. Gymnastics climbs per lap and strong degree weather kept other 
9-seeded Notre Dame College The ND/SMC Gymnastics crosswinds. schools away, so it was a Women’s Water Polo (JV), the Irish pulled off an Club hosted its annual home In the men’s C division, showdown between Notre 
Notre Dame hosted the Irish upset in a best-of-seven game meet, the Clover Classic, over freshman Josh Corcoran Dame and Ferris State. It was Invitational this weekend at series 4-1. the weekend. Along with the crashed early on but was able a good team performance the Rolf’s Aquatic Center. 10 In the second round, the Irish, the competition includ-to continue and finish the overall given the conditions. teams from throughout the Irish faced the No. 8 seed, ed Dayton, Grand Valley race. Graduate student Notre Dame’s earned points country traveled to South Oberlin College. Oberlin won State, Illinois, Iowa, Kent Andrew O’ Donnell had a moved the squad ahead of Bend to compete in the tour-the series 4-2, placing te Irish State, Kentucky, Michigan mechanical issue with his Central Michigan in the nament. in the second-chance bracket State, Minnesota, Penn State bike at the beginning but series, and within striking 
The Irish started off the against Bowling Green State and Virginia Tech. recovered well to finish in distance of Western Michigan. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR RENT NOTICES haikus are easy Fluttering, stars bounce. I wake reluctant “Love tap?” yeah right. but sometimes they don't make A cat sways carmine fruits. to get out of bed. You kicked my beautiful head. sense Wisdom spreads water. But I have to pee i don’t call that love. 
OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxu-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t refrigerator ry options at Dublin Village, Irish go it alone. Notre Dame has many Crossings, Oak Hill and North resources in place to assist you. If Chaos reigns within. Fat man sees small doork The Website you seek Shore Club. CES Property you or someone you love needs she dances lithely Reflect, repent, and reboot. He knows he cannot fit through. Cannot be located, but Management. Call 574-298-4206, confidential support or assistance, seduction under the moon Order shall return. Tears flow freely now. Countless more exist www.cespm.info please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. o- hey, a nickel! 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup-Red tricycles trip. A hypotenuse Serious error. port@nd.edu My life is Jello Goofy tinkles blancmanges. is on the opposite side All shortcuts have disappeared.
WANTED Sitting and waiting in the bowl The noses giggle. of a right angle Screen. Mind. Both are blank. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Patiently to gel 
ND/SMC couple in Dallas, Texas If you or someone you care about Winter admits joy. A white plastic fork Your file was so big. seeks full-time nanny for 15 months has been sexually assaulted, we Yellow flowers spin. Your full summer startles boats. Met three silver spoons last night It might be very useful. beginning June 2011. If interested, can help. For more information, visit The slimy, nosy ears trip. Earth startles Stuck-up spoons are dumb. But now it is gone please email Notre Dames website: Blue hedgehogs quiver. flowers. hdawson1@hotmail.com. http://csap.nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 2, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 2, 2011 


Golab 
continued from page 15 
Moreno. Golab got right back in Moreno’s face, but was unable to turn the momentum in his favor despite a strong final series of blows. By the end of the round, Golab reestablished control over the junior with a number of body-head combinations that left Moreno swinging out of control on defense. 
Though Golab struggled to land punches initially, he improved as the fight went on, eventually displaying power and accuracy that earned him the split-decision victory. 
182 pounds 
Mike “Nobody Puts Baby in a Corner” Urciuoli def. William “The Captain” Paape 
The off-campus senior Urciuoli opened the fight in the first round delivering a solid right hook to the Sorin sopho­more Paape, while also evad­ing heavy hits by slightly lean­ing back. Later in the round, Paape was able to return fire, launching a series of hooks with both hands. Paape broke away from his almost machine­like style in the second round, exchanging wild flails with Urciuoli. While neither opened up well, both finished strong in the round, trading excruciating right hooks. 
Despite his obvious fatigue, Urciuoli fended off Paape’s numerous lunges in the final stanza and strung together some devastating combina­tions, consisting of right hooks, left hooks and uppercuts. Urciuoli was granted the split decision victory to advance to the finals. 
Tyler “Tuna” Plantz def. Tom “Son of Ted” Carnevale 
The freshman Plantz came out strong in the first round, using his speed and low center of gravity to get in close and land a number of hits on Carnevale’s head. Carnevale, an off-campus junior, played defense for a large part of the round, as he clung to the ropes while fending off Plantz’s punches. 
In the second round, both sides came out aggressively but both had trouble connecting with any strong punches early. The Morrissey resident Plantz got Carnevale up against the ropes once again before land­ing a flurry of powerful punch­es to his opponent’s head. 
The third round opened with the two fighters trading punch­es, and Carnevale was able to turn the tables and get Plantz against the ropes. Plantz came back with another series of hits to the upperclassman’s head. In a split decision, Plantz earned the victory. 
192 pounds 
Mike “The Bringer of Rain” Doran def. Alex “The Mac Attack” Macomber 
In his bout with the Siegfried senior Macomber, the off-cam­pus senior Doran brought the rain. 
Doran’s quickness and agility allowed him to evade many early jabs from Maconber, coercing him into many swings and misses. The second round, highlighted by ducking and dodging, saw each fighter showcase their defensive skills, blocking each attempted blow and protecting their face. Near the end of the round, however, Macomber was put on the ropes and caught by a blizzard of punches from Doran, putting him off balance. In the third and final period, Doran chased Macomber around the ring, consistently dropping right jabs along the way. Ultimately, Doran advanced to the title fight with a unanimous victory. 
Bill “The Italian Stallion” Straccia def. Tim “The Block” Wallace 
In the first round, Straccia came out swinging and imme­diately landed a massive punch to fellow senior Wallace’s head. While Wallace, a Bengal Bouts captain, landed a number of nice jabs to his opponent’s head and body, his technique took a back seat to Straccia’s power in the first round. 
To begin the second round, both fighters failed to make solid contact as they aimed to land big hits. As the round went on, Straccia managed to connect with a number of big hits to Wallace’s head. 
In the final round, Wallace came in close on Straccia and threw some quality punches while his opponent showed his fatigue, swinging wildly but failing to connect. Both fighters posted an impressive round despite their clear exhaustion. Straccia won the bout in a unanimous decision on the strength of his powerful per­formance in the opening rounds. 
198 pounds 
Christopher “Stubs” Sarkis def. Daniel Hyzak 
Sarkis was announced the winner after Hyzak scratched before the fight. 
Daniel Yi def. Brian “Caesar” Salat 
In the only semifinal of the 198-pound weight class (after Christopher Sarkis advanced without a fight), Salat, a sopho­more from Zahm, began by connecting on a strong left jab to the Sorin freshman Yi’s face. Yi retaliated, however, by later landing a right hook to the side of Salat’s head. In the second round, both fighters — who shared an upright stance and style — exchanged a number of body shots before Yi took the upper hand. Yi linked together a powerful combination of left jabs and right hooks to end the round. Immediately after the bell rang in the third round, Yi began to aggressively throw punch after punch, landing a couple to Salat’s frame. A tired Salat rebounded to force Yi onto the ropes before unleash­ing a series of right hooks. In what was a very competitive and tight fight, Yi prevailed by split decision. 
Heavyweight Division 
Kevin Crepeau def. John “The Broker” Baumann 
In the opening round, the off-campus senior Crepeau han­dled the off-campus MBA stu­dent Baumann with ease, neu­tralizing The Broker’s height advantage by hammering away with a barrage of uppercuts. The lefty Crepeau also used impactful jabs to stymie Baumann. In the second round, Baumann battled back a little, throwing a huge right hook but then leaving himself suscepti­ble to a Crepeau uppercut that sent him flying down and into the ropes. Baumann got up and continued fighting until the bell rang. Crepeau threw one late punch just slightly after the bell and Baumann countered with one of his own. The refer­ee separated the two and this exchange set up an intense third round. In the final stanza, Crepeau delivered vicious com­bos, landing right jabs and left hooks on the now battered and tired Baumann. Judging that Baumann could not continue the bout, the referee stopped the contest one minute into the third round, awarding the semifinal victory to the Bengal Bouts captain Crepeau. 
Nathan Arnold def. Joey “The Alabaster Disaster” Hiben 
Law student Arnold and off-campus senior Hiben got straight into the action, trading punches early before Arnold lost his balance and fell to the ground. Hiben established con­trol as he pushed his opponent around the ring with his sweeping left-handed punches, but Arnold countered by land­ing a few punches of his own in the round. 
Arnold carried his momen­tum into the second round, as he connected with Hiben’s head with a series of powerful punches. Hiben managed to get in a few punches before sur­rendering control of the round to Arnold, who sent his oppo­nent to the ropes. 
In the third round, Hiben was clearly affected by the hits he sustained earlier in the match, as his arms hung at his side, leaving his body defenseless to Arnold’s blows. Hiben persisted in throwing punches, but Arnold maintained control as the referee was forced to step in a number of times on Hiben’s behalf. Arnold emerged victorious following a unanimous decision. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu, Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu, Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu and Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Diebler leads No. 1 Ohio State to victory 
Associated Press 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — Jon Diebler had career highs of 30 points and 10 3-point­ers on Tuesday night and No. 1 Ohio State routed Penn State 82-61 to clinch at least a share of the Big Ten title. 
Diebler went 5 of 6 from behind the arc in the first half as the Buckeyes (28-2, 15-2) built a 15-point lead and never let up. The senior’s 10 3s set a school record and tied the conference record. 
Freshman center Jared Sullinger bullied his way through the lane for 10 points and 10 rebounds — though he wasn’t needed much in the second half with Ohio State leading by as many as 26 points. 
The win allowed the Buckeyes to earn at least a share of their fourth confer­ence championship in six years and stay one game ahead of second-place Purdue. Ohio State can claim the conference title outright with a win over No. 10 Wisconsin on Sunday. 
Senior Talor Battle scored 18 points in his final regular-season home game for Penn State (15-13, 8-9). 
The Nittany Lions fell way short of an upset that could have drastically improved their fading NCAA tourna­ment chances. There was so much anticipation on cam­pus, the game drew 15,403 fans — the sixth-largest crowd in the 15-year history of the Jordan Center — and a record student turnout of more than 6,000. 
Instead they got to watch Ohio State dissect Penn State’s defense with ease in ascending to another Big Ten crown. 
After an emotional pregame ceremony honoring the seniors, Penn State never found its footing and didn’t have an answer for Diebler, who finished 10 of 12 from the field, all from 3-point range. 
The man some fans call “3bler” lived up to his nick­name. It didn’t matter if he was wide open. Or fading away from a defender. Or with a bad look at the basket with a hand in his face. 
With Diebler’s hot hand leading the way, Ohio State shot 55 percent overall, including 60 percent (18 of 
30) in the second half. 
A 3-minute stretch of the first half exemplified Penn State’s frustrations. Sullinger hit a 12-footer over Jeff Brooks before William Buford dunked following a steal to make it 22-10. Buford fin­ished with 21 points. 
Following a timeout, Battle tried to regain momentum for the Nittany Lions with an acrobatic scoop shot in the lane. But Diebler rushed down on the break for a 3 from the wing to make it 25­12 with about 5 minutes left in the half. 
The rest of the game was a mere formality. 


Wednesday, March 2, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
way of Powers’ swipes, the jun­ior was caught by a knock to 


Hayes 
the temple. Powers was finally continued from page 16 able to land the body shots he 
had been attempting to dole out Colin “The Lion” King def. earlier in the previous rounds, Nicholas “El Toro” Yulan and the senior was named the 
King quickly gained the upper victor by unanimous decision. hand in the bout, knocking Yulan around the perimeter of Ryan Alberdi def. Mark “Ridin’ the ring. While King repeatedly Solo” Iandolo made contact with Yulan, most Iandolo began the fight in of the blows “El Toro” threw exciting fashion, immediately were either off target or easily going on the offensive and defended by King. Yulan began backing the sophomore Alberdi the second round with more into a corner. Alberdi was not aggression, and he succeeded intimidated, however, and in cornering the sophomore delivered several body shots as King against the ropes. But the he battled out of the corner. momentum quickly shifted The sophomore then rained a again after King hit Yulan with barrage of punches on the sen-a straight punch and pushed ior Iandolo before backing the freshman into a corner. away, and Iandolo finished the Yulan caught King with a right first round with a straight hook in the final seconds of the punch to Alberdi’s forehead. second round, but the third Alberdi claimed first contact of round belonged to “The Lion” the second round with a power-King, as the sophomore from ful left hook, and the sopho-Sorin deflected all of Yulan’s more batted away most of hits. The bout ended with a Iandolo’s attempted hits. missed swipe by King, but the However, the senior closed out sophomore was still named the the second round in similar winner by split decision. fashion to the first, hitting 
Alberdi in the face as time 160 pounds expired. Iandolo began the 

third round very aggressively, a comeback, Salvi had already round, as both Joe and Cray floor. Robert Powers def. Matthew but his lunges left him vulnera-established control. looked for an opportunity to The fighters traded jabs in “It’s Almost Wake Week” ble to blows from Alberdi, and With a combination of alter-gain an edge. the final round, and Severyn LaBriola the sophomore was named the nating head and body shots, As they danced around the was able to land a few upper-
Powers began the bout with a winner by unanimous decision. Salvi continued to gain ground ring, both Joe and Cray dis-cuts before the two settled barrage of blows to LaBriola, on McAvoy in the final round. played their defensive skills. down to finish out the contest. but the Alumni junior success-167 pounds The remaining minutes of the Cray attacked his opponent’s Severyn’s second round fully defended himself from the fight were tense as Salvi tried body and was able to land a assertiveness and careful deci­worst of the punishing hits. Brian “Yeah, Cool Beans” to land a few knockout punch-series of punches before Joe sion-making on offense earned Powers remained on the offen-Salvi def. Richard “Mr. Glass” es, but McAvoy managed to came back swinging hard at his the senior the unanimous victo­sive for the rest of the round McAvoy evade the knockout despite opponent’s head. ry over the sophomore. after extricating himself from a The experience accompany-some impressive hits by Salvi. In the third round, Joe had potentially dangerous situation ing the two law students to the In a controlled fight between clearly mustered enough ener-176 pounds in the corner. The senior ring was evident from the out-the two strong fighters, Salvi’s gy to take control of the bout, remained aggressive in the sec-set, with good pacing and con-decisive punches gave him the as he fought his way out of a Bernardo “Blue” Garcia def. ond round, reaching in to deliv-trolled jabs from both sides. split decision victory. corner early with a series of Giacomo Minafra er body shots to his opponent. Salvi looked for openings to be punches before the two got tan-It was an exciting fight from LaBriola, however, waited for aggressive, but McAvoy man-Jake “One Blow” Joe def. gled up. He continued going the outset, as Garcia began by the senior to come close before aged to keep his composure David “Mountain Man” Cray after his opponent, who alternating between head and dispensing quick jabs to the and avoid any serious blows. Both fighters emerged ener-appeared significantly worn body punches before Minafra aggressor. The fighters Salvi got rolling in round two getically out of the gate in this down by the final bell. eventually forced him back appeared to tire in the last as he landed two forceful blows New Jersey-New York battle. A In the end, the Empire State with a head shot. Garcia uti­round, and though LaBriola to the head. Though McAvoy series of quick jabs and quick won the day as Joe danced his lized his height advantage to attempted to dodge out of the gathered himself and attempted footwork characterized the first way to victory in unanimous aim low and then land a huge 
fashion. blow to Minafra’s head. The intensity increased in 170 pounds round two as Garcia and 
Minafra continued a back-and-Greg Bennett def. Connor forth tousle. Eventually, Garcia “The Skeletor” Skelly managed to hold his stance and 
What Bennett lacked in land a few massive punches height he made up for in inten-that pinned Minafra against the sity, as he attacked Skelly from ropes and almost out of the the first bell. The rest of the ring. first round saw a bit of a stand-The final round began with as off as the two juniors demon-much excitement as the previ­strated control and discipline. ous two, as Minafra landed a 
The second saw more of forceful blow that initiated a Bennett’s fervor as he used his countdown for Garcia. Minafra height advantage to repeatedly put forth a valiant effort to pelt Skelly with a flurry of low regain his ground and at one jabs to the body. Skelly parried point pinned Garcia against the effectively to fend off the ropes, but Garcia remained attacks, and even landed a cou-composed. ple of right hooks to Bennett’s In a close contest between head in the middle round. two aggressive fighters, Garcia 
In the third, Skelly appeared pulled out the split-decision vic­tentative and remained on the tory to send Minafra home. defensive, though Bennett’s persistent attacks had slowed Dominic “Warsaw down slightly. Warhammer” Golab def. 
In a display of passionate Adrian “Yo Adrian” Moreno determination, Bennett earned Golab and Moreno started off the victory in a split-decision strong at the outset of the manner. opening round, trading punch­
es as they danced around the Nick Severyn def. Robert “I’m ring. Golab was struggling to all jacked up on Mountain land a few big swings, while Dew” Manfreda Moreno strung together a cou-
The bout opened with both ple of combinations to end the fighters displaying a methodical first round. and careful strategy in their Like the first, the second offensive decisions. Both round was a back-and-forth blocked well, with the only sig-affair that included several nificant exchange coming as momentum changes as both Severyn threw a blow to the fighters displayed quickness body of Manfreda, who threw and aggressiveness. one to the head of Severyn. At the outset of the third 
In the second round, Severyn round, Golab came out strong mounted an aggressive attack with a flurry of punches that at the sound of the bell. By the had to be broken up by the ref-end of the round, Severyn had eree to initiate a countdown for asserted his power with his Moreno. Golab got right back in carefully timed punches, one of which knocked Manfreda to the see GOLAB/page15 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 2, 2011 
ing sure to not take any punch-round, however, and Enzweiler opponent against the ropes, returned fire by punching es. But he successfully landed was named the winner by and the “Gatito Loco” was Hayes in the face and pushing 

Bouts 


hooks when given the opportu-unanimous decision. declared the victor by unani-him against the ropes. Hayes continued from page 20 nity against the junior Ortenzio. mous decision. regained the upper hand in the 
In the second round, Ortenzio Alex “Gatto Loco” Oloriz def. last few seconds of the second punches landed. In the end, the came out strong, knocking Michael “Blinded by the 157 pounds round when he trapped Ulrich judges ruled that Seim just Koepsel back against the ropes. White” Magill against the ropes and re-direct­edged Decker, giving him the The round finished evenly, with The bout got off to a rousing Paul “Hawaii K.O.” Hayes def. ed swipes from the sophomore. split decision victory. both fighters landing a few start as the fighters traded Jeff “Lil Bear” Ulrich Ulrich knocked Hayes to the 
jabs, but not many big punches. punches. But Magill soon found Ulrich defended himself from floor early in the third round, Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. Ortenzio opened the final himself in trouble after backing his opponent’s early blows, but but Ulrich fell soon afterwards. Daniel Rodriguez round on the offensive, landing into a corner. Oloriz maintained the sophomore from Knott Hall Although Ulrich struck Hayes 
Neither fighter attempted to a number of uppercuts and his aggressive pace in the sec-was thrown off balance once with a thunderous blow to the do much early in the first punches. He continued the good ond round, and again beat the Hayes finally caught him with a face, a knock to the head sent round, with each fighter taking performance, drawing blood on junior from Keough into the blow. Hayes dodged out of the Ulrich staggering. Hayes suf­a defensive strategy. Toward a particularly hard punch. In ropes with a successful series way of a retaliatory swipe from fered a strong hit to the head the end of the round, both the end, Ortenzio did enough to of combinations. The Morrissey Ulrich, and the architecture as the final bell was wrung, but fighters landed a series of overcome the early deficit and sophomore then ended the student from Hawaii finished he was still named the victor by punches, with the sophomore earn the unanimous decision. round with a punch to Oloriz’s the round with a left hook to split decision. Lally using agile footwork to face. The third round was more the side of Ulrich’s head. Hayes evade the freshman Rodriguez Ryan “Welcome to the of the same as Oloriz used an landed the first hits of the sec-and landing a strong punch. Jungle” Slaney def. Benjamin aggressive start to catch his ond round, but the sophomore see HAYES/page 15 The second round began with “The Crusha from Russia” neither fighter attempting to Eichler attack too much. That cautious The freshman Eichler came phase didn’t last long, however, out aggressive against the sen-as Rodriguez unleashed a ior Slaney, knocking him series of punches. Lally against the ropes. Slaney, responded strongly, utilizing angered by being pushed to the both jabs and uppercuts ropes, later knocked Eichler to towards the end of the round. the mat with a flurry of punch-Unlike the first two rounds, the es. Slaney resumed his strong third round began with Lally punches in the second round, and Rodriguez coming out throwing a hard hook that cut aggressively. Lally landed a Eichler open. Later in the heavy uppercut early and round, Slaney continued the Rodriguez responded with a barrage, knocking Eichler to series of hard jabs. Toward the the mat, and leading the refer-end of the round, however, ee to stop the contest, sending Lally gained the upper hand, Slaney to the finals. knocking Rodriguez to the ropes with a series of punches 154 pounds as Rodriguez fatigued. The late push was enough to give Lally Thomas “The Mean Justifies the split decision. the” Enzweiler def. Inoh Choe 
Choe began the first round on 143 pounds the offensive, landing several 
punches on Enzweiler before Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti the senior returned fire. Choe def. Christopher “Sparta had control of the round, back-Hands” Torres ing Enzweiler into corners 
Sassetti came out aggressive, three times and making contact while Torres attempted a with several well-placed body defensive approach early. This shots. Enzweiler, however, allowed Sassetti to take the closed out the first round by early lead, as he knocked cornering the St. Edward’s Hall Torres to the ropes on two sep-senior against the ropes, and arate occasions. Both freshmen he carried his momentum into attempted an attacking the next round. Enzweiler approach in the second round. began to take advantage of his Sassetti was able to knock long armspan, and Choe spent Torres to the ropes again, but much of the second round Torres then cut Sassetti with a trapped in the corner. But the hard jab and hook. When the senior was not ready to give up, round resumed, Sassetti was and moment again swung in his able to gain control again, favor in the third round. Choe landing some more punches. inflicted several punishing body Each fighter came out aggres-shots on Enzweiler, and sively in the third round. Torres Enzweiler hit the floor after used a series of jabs and hooks, being beaten into a corner. while Sassetti used a number of Choe’s furious comeback could uppercuts and punches. In the not make up for Enweiler’s end, Sassetti leveraged his dominance in the second early advantage to earn a unanimous-decision victory. 
Will “The Thrill” Peterson def. Kevin “Get ‘Er” Dunne 
Both the freshman Peterson and the sophomore Dunne came out aggressive early on. Each fighter threw a number of violent punches in attempts to gain the early upper hand. In the second round, the aggres­siveness continued. Both fight­ers used a number of uppercuts and hooks to try to gain con­trol. Near the end of the round, Peterson landed a heavy right hook, and Dunne countered with a strong punch to Peterson’s headgear. Early in the third round, Peterson was able to push Dunne back against the ropes, with a series of combinations. Dunne responded, landing some hooks towards the end of the round. Peterson ended the round strong, taking control and earning the unanimous deci­sion. 
148 pounds 
Kevin Ortenzio def. Brian “The BK Special” Koepsel 
The senior Koepsel took a cautious approach early, mak­


Wednesday, March 2, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
there’s a lot more focus. 
It’s definitely a lot differ­ent — it’s hard to put into continued from page 20 words.” How well the team 
rebounds from a disap ­would play here] when I pointing 22 -32 record in was a kid I wouldn’t have 2010 will likely determine believed it. I think it Doyle’s success as a cap-probably makes my mom tain. Doyle said he adjust-proudest out of anybody, ed his leadership style to to be honest . She still help create a winning can’t believe it.” atmosphere on the team 
Doyle grew up as a die-this season. hard Chicago Cubs fan. “Last year I was a cap-Despite the organization’s tain as well. It was a little oft-talked about “wait ‘til bit different,” Doyle said. next year ” mentality, “I think I got away from Doyle said he grew up my teammates a little bit. idolizing a Cubs role This year the focus is just model who played middle on being one of the guys. infield, before looking up I think it ’s more impor ­to a Yankee infielder. tant to have the guy next 
“I was always a short -to you’s back. I think the stop growing up . It ’s biggest thing I’ve learned funny, the first game that is that it’s not necessarily I played at another posi-what you say — it ’s all tion was at third base the about your actions. first game of my freshman People listen to you if you year here, ” Doyle said. do things the right way.” “I’m a huge Cubs fan, so In his final season in an [former Cubs second Irish uniform, Doyle looks baseman] Ryne Sandberg to pick up his offensive was a huge role model for numbers from where they me. left off at the end of the 
“His career was winding 2009 season, a year in down, and [Yankees which the then -sopho ­


Doyle 

be devastated by this news, just setting rules and guide-shortstop] Derek Jeter more hit .327 with 31 
Ringel said the time off lines for your team to follow, 

Ringel
was on the rise, so I start-runs batted in . Doyle ’s 

allowed him to prepare not even just on-ice stuff but ed following his example. numbers dipped in 2010 
mentally for the potential off-ice stuff, and just main-
continued from page 20 
Jeter’s a winner man, and as he hit .228 and drove 

end of his playing days. taining a good balance.” that’s what it’s all about.” in 22 runs in 180 at-bats. 
“When I went back up to At practices, Ringel ’s As a captain last season Though he said he has not 
“[The doctors] said the Ann Arbor that time and the involvement varies from day under former Irish coach been happy with his ini­
brain hadn ’t healed com -decision was kind of made, I to day. He said he isn’t tech-Dave Schrage, as well as tial offensive numbers, 
pletely and that the stress I was pretty okay with it,” he nically limited medically, but this season under newly-including a .167 batting 
put on my body from the said. “The pros didn’t out-Jackson keeps tabs on his hired coach Mik Aoki, average during Notre 
cardio kind of set me back.” weigh the cons in terms of activity and condition. Doyle and fellow co-cap-Dame’s 3-3 start, Doyle’s 
In July, with concussion what I went through in “Some days he’ll let me get tain, senior Brian Dupra, goals for the season 
symptoms still lingering, December and January, and dressed and run the mock are charged with ushering sounded eerily like some-
Ringel returned to the spe-I was all right with that.” power play, ” Ringel said in a new era of Irish thing his role model Jeter 
cialist, who did not give him A few days later, Ringel with a smile. “But that ’s baseball. Doyle said the would say. 
clearance to return to com-said Jackson called him only been like three times attitude around the pro-“I just want to win, ” 
petitive hockey. At that about the possibility of stay-this year.” gram has changed Doyle said with a smirk. 
point, Ringel said he and ing on the team as an Despite his new role, already. “That’s all that matters.” 
Jackson decided he would undergraduate coach. After Ringel is still just one of the “I think the energy level 
medically disqualify, ending approval from the Athletic guys. is a lot higher around Contact Chris Allen at 
his Notre Dame career. Department, Ringel was offi-A month ago, after a 6-1 here, ” he said. “I think callen10@nd.edu 
While most players would cially hired. loss to Ohio State, Notre 
Ringel said Jackson gave Dame ’s seniors called a him two options: He could players-only meeting. Ringel either put hockey behind said he was present at the him or stay involved with meeting, but didn’t relay its the team as a coach. For proceedings to the coaches. Ringel, the choice was easy. “As much as I am a coach 
“Moving on never really in title, I still feel like I’m crossed my mind,” he said. more part of the team than “I love the sport too much. I the coaching staff,” he said. still go out there and try and After he graduates, Ringel, do as much as I can with a finance major, said he drills or messing around wants to take some time off, after practice. I was thank-but that coaching could be ful that there was a posi -in his future. tion, and even if there was-“As much as I love the n’t I’d probably still just be game, not playing hockey hanging out at the rink any-has kind of opened my eyes ways.” to a lot of other things,” he 
Now, Ringel is a kind of said. “The last 12 years of liaison between the players my life have been pretty and coaching staff, commu-much dedicated to it and I nicating when players are would like to maybe try tired, upset or just bogged some other things that I down with schoolwork. haven’t really done. I know 
Jackson said he always that if that doesn’t work out appreciates Ringel’s input. for me I could always come 
“He gives me insights back to coaching in the because he does care, ” future.” Jackson said. “He’s invested Ringel said he still feels in the program, and I think the lingering effects of his it’s been great for him to be concussion today, and said part of the team and he ’s he gets headaches occasion-been helpful to the coaching ally when he gets his heart staff.” rate up. But when asked if 
On the other end, Ringel he felt any resentment said the coaches have been towards the Miami player just as helpful to him, teach-who ended his career, he ing him the ins and outs of just chalked it up to being a what it takes to be a suc -part of the sport he still cessful coach at the Division loves. I level. “You can’t be mad about 
“I didn’t think there was it,” he said. “Everyone’s hit really that much to coach-someone in an awkward ing. I was like, ‘Oh you just position, everyone ’s been put guys out there and they hit. My case is just one of make you look good, ’” those things where I didn’t Ringel said. “But there’s a recover from it and you lot that goes into it. From can’t do anything about it, breaking down other teams you just kind of go with it.” and what would work against them, what doesn’t Contact Sam Werner at work against them. Even swerner@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 2, 2011 

Golf 
continued from page 20 
have anyone to relate to.” 
McNamara echoed the senti­ments of his coach, but said there are positive aspects of being the only freshman on a veteran squad. 
“I was intimidated when I first got here, a little on edge because everything was so new,” he said. “I didn’t know where to go to work out or who to go with. I did my best to get to know the older guys, but they were traveing a lot. I ended up just working real­ly hard on my game late at night.” 
McNamara also worked on building strength to complement his technical work. Kubinski said his work in the weight room has paid dividends. 
“Physically, he’s gotten better,” Kubinski said. “He’s worked hard with our strength trainers, and over the summer he trained reli­giously. He came back hitting the ball 25 yards longer, which is huge.” 
This combination of improved skills and increased strength cat­apulted McNamara into the top five of the Irish lineup during the fall season. The work he got at the numerous warm-weather invitationals last semester has provided him with an invaluable experience, Kubinski said. 
“The confidence he took from playing in the fall , stemming from multiple under-70 rounds, has made a difference,” Kubinski said. “Paul has really blossomed this year.” 
A far cry from his earliest memories as a member of the Irish team, McNamara said he has developed a chemistry with his teammates both on and off the course. 
“The team dynamic this year is better than last year’s,” McNamara said. “We have a very tight-knit group of guys. We hang out off the course and we try to be positive and help each other out at practice.” 
Should Notre Dame advance in the NCAA tournament this year, McNamara said his early trials should play an important role. 
“I think things happen for a reason, and maybe that hap­pened for a reason,” he said of his one-man class. “I’m playing well now, and I have been for a little while, and that I think it’s possible that could be a reason.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Sophomore Paul McNamara prepares to tee off during the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic on Sept. 27 at the Warren Golf Course. 


Ryan 
continued from page 20 
paid off, as she currently boasts the best times of any Irish swimmer this season in both the 200-yard freestyle and the 100-yard back­stroke. 
“I trained with Westmont Swim Club this summer, and my coaches really focused on the technique of my strokes to prepare me for my freshman year at [Notre Dame],” Ryan said. “I think I improved most in my training this year. This year I trained faster and more than I ever had before, so it definitely con­tributed to my success at the end of the season. Being able to be on relays with the fastest girls on the team was really exciting for me and pushed me to train harder and swim faster for the team.” 
Ryan credited her teammates for teaching her the importance of hav­ing fun and improving at the same time. 
“I have definitely learned from all of my teammates. They’ve taught me how to be a good teammate and how to really have fun with swimming while working hard,” Ryan said. “I spent a lot of time this year training with [sophomore] Kim Holden and [junior] Amy Prestinario. Both of them are really great to train with because they are hard-working and have positive attitudes.” 
Despite Ryan’s improvement this season, Holden said she believes she has the potential to become an even better swimmer. 
“It’s been an amazing experience training with Kelly this year. She brings so much energy to our prac­tices and she pushes me every day we’re in the water together,” Holden said. “I was blown away by her swims at the end of this season, and I know she has a lot more in her. I am so excited to train with her these next couple years and see where she can go.” 
Ryan, who hails from Hinsdale, Ill., played a huge role for the Irish in the Big East championships, recording first place in the 100­yard freestyle, while her 400-yard freestyle relay team stole first place from Louisville by .23 seconds. Senior co-captain Kellyn Kuhlke said Ryan’s hard work in practice has paid off at crunch time. 
“Being a freshman, at her first conference [meet] she was nervous, but had no trouble stepping up and getting the job done because she competed every day in practice,” Kuhlke said. “A lot of people on our team were calling her the best kept secret in the Big East because she got to the meet, rocked her first swim and never looked back. 
Kuhlke echoed many of her teammates, pointing out that Ryan is an example of practice really leading to perfection. 
“Kelly is a really hard worker and very unassuming. She competes in practice every day, which definitely pushes people and brings out healthy competition on our team,” Kuhlke said. “On top of that, she is always having fun and has a smile on her face. She is a great team­mate and makes working hard a lot of fun, especially now seeing where it has gotten her.” 
Ryan will find out Wednesday whether or not her hard work has earned her a trip to the NCAA championships, which take place March 17-19 in Austin, Texas. 

Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, March 2, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer




Sports

Wednesday, March 2, 2011 page 20 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Boxers compete for coveted spot in fnals 
By SAM GANS, VICKY JACOBSEN, KELSEY MANNING, MATTHEW DeFRANKS and JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writers 
134 pounds 
Niels Seim def. Joe “Sweet Cheeks” Decker 
Seim got off to a great start against his fellow sophomore Decker, landing a series of punches early. As the first round continued, however, Decker knocked Seim against the ropes with a flurry of com­binations. Decker began the second round strong, utilizing a strong jab followed by a right hook multiple times. Later in the round, Seim responded, unleashing a series of punches. The third round was another even round. Both Seim and Decker had moments of strong 
see BOUTS/page 16 


Punched out 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer Sophomore Jack Lally throws a punch against freshman Daniel Rodriguez during a Bengal Bouts semifnal match last night. Lally won by split decision. 
MEN’S GOLF 
Lone Irish sophomore competes 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore Paul McNamara admits that entering the fall of 2009 as the lone member of Notre Dame’s recruiting class was daunting. However, he said this early obstacle may have con­tributed to his solid performance so far this season. 
Pursued by USC and UCLA, among others, the Southern California native instead enrolled at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, no one else from his year did the same. Irish coach Jim Kubinski said only landing one recruit has been rare during his tenure, and that it presents some difficulties as a young golfer. 
“The only other time we’ve had that in our program was with Josh Sandman,” Kubinski said of the 2010 Notre Dame graduate. “Paul went through it as a fresh­man. It’s tough because you don’t 
see GOLF/page 18 
HOCKEY 



Ringel makes transition from player to assistant 
after a concussion cut his in December 2009 as the “I missed class for a week In the spring, Ringel began
By SAM WERNER 

career short. Even though Irish went on the road to with a doctor ’s excuse, trying to work himself back
Sports Writer 

he can’t be out on the ice, take on then -No. 1 Miami ended up taking finals and into shape and said doctors Ringel said being part of the (Ohio) in a two-game series. didn’t do too well on those.” encouraged him to test his 
The Irish hockey roster team was all that mattered. Midway through the first Ringel said he visited a limits. But then Ringel suf­lists junior Eric Ringel as an “I think the biggest thing I period of the second game, concussion specialist who fered another concussion, “undergraduate student would have missed from Ringel was run into the gave an encouraging, if cau-and it was back to square assistant coach, ” but the playing is being around the boards from behind by a tious, prognosis. one. former Irish defenseman’s team and the ins and outs of RedHawk player and left the “At first it was pretty “I was slowly getting back role is a bit simpler than every day,” Ringel said. “[In] game. He was diagnosed tough, ” Ringel said. “I’d into shape, and they were that. the position I have now, I with a concussion and said never been out of hockey for like, push yourself to see 
“I’m kind of the midway still get to do that, so the the next few weeks were a an extended period of time how hard you can go, ” between a player and a transition hasn’t really been struggle just to stay focused. other than breaking a bone. Ringel said. “Guess I pushed coach,” Ringel said. that tough.” “I kind of had a couple When it got to two, three myself too hard. 
Ringel joined the Irish Ringel had just worked his weeks where I didn’t really months, it was like, ‘Am I coaching staff this season way into the regular lineup function too well,” he said. ever going to play again?’” see RINGEL/page 17 
BASEBALL 





Doyle leads Irish by example 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
As a kid who grew up in Chicago with parents, aunts and uncles who have attended Notre Dame for generations, Irish senior shortstop and second-year captain Mick Doyle is truly living out one of his dreams. 
“My dad and my whole family are all about Notre Dame, pretty big on Notre Dame. I’ve been coming to football games here since I could walk, and probably even before then, ” Doyle said. “I was always a huge Notre Dame fan. If you would have told me that [I 
see DOYLE/page 17 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Ryan excels during first season for ND 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 

Transitioning to college classes and meeting new friends — while working hard every day in prac­tice — has challenged freshman Kelly Ryan in her first year on the Irish squad. 
Balancing Notre Dame aca­demics with Irish athletics proved to be difficult at times for Ryan, but she used her experience from Fenwick High School to help manage her time. 
“I think a lot of the lessons I learned earlier in my career were valuable this year,” she said. “It was definitely important to have the determination and time man­agement skills that I learned before coming to college. It is defi­nitely hard to balance the aca­demic, athletic and social parts of life during the season. 
“I try to not get too stressed out about school, and swimming helps me to take my mind off of it for a little while.” 
Learning to have fun with her friends during practice has made Ryan’s transition much easier to endure. 
“Making friends with the girls on the team has made my first season at Notre Dame so much fun,” she said. “They help me to put my school and swimming stresses to the side and just have fun.” 
Ryan’s training has certainly 
see RYAN/page 18 




