
COMMENTARY 
Respect tradition, but respect character too 
The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 11, 2011 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 


Program gains exposure to D.C. 
Everybody loves tradition. At Notre Dame, the ways of yester­year elicit unparalleled fanati­cism. 
But we all ignore one aspect of tradition: It doesn’t win football games. 
Gold helmets, blue jerseys and a walk across South Quad do not win football games. 
Neither do disco-ball helmets, green jerseys or a walk by the Hesburgh Library. 
Players win games, coaches win games, and, once in a decade or so, out­of-hand fans win games. 
Yet, around here, those same fans bellyache about any slight change more than five-year-olds do Nov. 1 about eating too much candy. 
“A jumbotron? Luxury boxes? Artificial turf? How dare Irish coach Brian Kelly bring his Cincinatti ways to the Golden Dome?” 
“Shamrocks on the helmets? Green facemasks? Playing ACC schools? Why is Knute Rockne’s team being so superficially fancy?” 
Thus were the cries across campus when Notre Dame and adidas revealed the helmet-uni­form combination for this week’s trip to Washington, D.C., to face the current kings of outlandish uniforms, Maryland. Thus were the complaints of alumni, young and old, and thus were the angry posts on subway alumni mes­sage boards. 
Kelly attempted to counter these grievances with an air of indifference toward them. Instead, he insisted, only the opinions of his players influence his decisions. 
“The only people I care about relative to the uniforms are the 105 guys that were in this room when we showed it to them, and they were excited,” Kelly said Tuesday. “All due respect to ev­erybody else that has an opinion, I really don’t care about theirs. I care about what my players think, and our players love it.” 
Even if Kelly were to care about those upset with the glitz and glam, these are the wrong grievances. Instead, students, alumni and fans alike could have shouted in unison, “Why don’t we win more games?” 
Really, what else matters? 


Why does a simple gold helmet matter? Why does it mat­ter when that same helmet is altered and a shamrock is added to it? 
Isn’t the final score all that matters? Don’t we just want wins? Well, those and national championships? 
No. 

That isn’t the correct mental­ity either. Rather, this week of all weeks, all should have shouted in unison, “It doesn’t really mat­ter.” 
Notre Dame’s traditions are indeed part of the fabric of the University, but jersey color and helmet style are not those tradi­tions. Academics and quality of character, amid the football players, the student body as a whole and the rest of the Uni­versity, are what Notre Dame is built upon, and the foundations of this University are obvi­ously a much larger and always pertinent piece than the Notre Dame football program and its long-held jersey designs. 
As long as Notre Dame churns out products such as junior linebacker Manti Te’o and senior quarterback Dayne Crist, no one should care what color jersey they wear. As long as the Irish sing the fight songs alongside the respective service academies, no one should equate gold helmets to a sense of class. As long as Notre Dame remains Notre Dame to its core, why claim the size of a scoreboard dictates such? 
Know what happens when people get too attached to super­ficial traditions? Students riot when a football coach is fired on a Wednesday night. Whether or not the Board of Trustees at Penn State made the right deci­sion by firing Joe Paterno, any logical person could understand their rationale in doing so. Yet, the obsession with football and tradition led to an embarrass­ing night in State College, Penn., amidst an increasingly em­barrasing week. 
Let’s be grateful the biggest worries around here these days are about the design of the hel­mets and the color of the jerseys come each Saturday. 
Let’s also not forget why those are the biggest worries — the traditions here at Notre Dame. 
And let’s stand by those tradi­tions. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
Moving one home game each year away from South Bend hurts the Irish in some ways in recruiting, as Notre Dame faces restrictions on the contact it can have with any recruits. But ac­cording to Irish recruiting ex­pert Mike Frank, playing the “Shamrock Series” all over the country has a number of advan­tages, especially when it comes to improving Notre Dame’s ex­posure outside its traditional stronghold of the Midwest. 
“Anytime Notre Dame can showcase their program in front of players, it’s certainly a good thing,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “It does help just playing in front of these programs.” 
One of the most tangible ways in which off-site home games help the Irish is that players who may not have been able to af­ford an unofficial visit to expe­rience a Notre Dame game can now witness the pageantry of an Irish home game closer to home. 
“It’s good to get your pro­gram and what you stand for in front of these players because it’s expensive when you’re talk­ing about Mom and Dad and son trying to get on a flight to South Bend,” Frank said. “That really hurts Notre Dame and a lot of kids don’t really come and visit. If it’s a kid from Florida, they can get in the car and it’s a 70-dollar gas trip to go see Florida play, whereas a kid from Florida coming up here is much more expensive. 
“I think that’s some of the thinking that goes along with [playing the off-site game].” 
Frank also said the influx of Irish fans into a major metrop­olis — whether Washington, D.C., New York or San Antonio 

— can have a positive impact on recruits’ impressions of Notre Dame. 
“When a bunch of good people show up in town and they’re wearing Notre Dame gear and they’re representing Notre Dame fans and alumni and the fanbase and the school in a positive way, that’s just a very good thing,” Frank said. “How many times have you talked to countless fans that say ‘Don’t go to Ohio State, their fans are hor­rible?’ They just don’t say that about Notre Dame fans because they’re always respectful of the other team and conduct them­selves in a way that Notre Dame would want.” 
Frank said the Irish also take advantage of their national schedule to help recruit players by showing them they will play close to home. 
“Let’s be honest, Notre Dame is on national TV every week,” Frank said. “Most of the time, it’s national TV, so that certain­ly helps. But just getting them close to Mom and Dad so it’s not so expensive certainly helps.” 
According to Frank, Notre Dame players also take great pride in returning to their home regions and playing well, as they can validate their commit­ments to Notre Dame. 
“To go in there and play well and win — then they can go back home and be proud of Notre Dame,” Frank said. “A lot of times people say when a kid makes a decision to go far away from home, ‘Why would he go far away from home when he has State U here and they’re re­ally good at football.’ 
“Until you can kind of let them experience the same thing you experienced, it’s kind of hard for people to understand.” 
The Irish unveiled special uniforms for this weekend’s game, and while public reaction has been largely negative, Irish coach Brian Kelly simply doesn’t care. 
“All due respect to everybody else that has an opinion, I don’t really care about theirs. I care about what my players think, and our players love it,” Kelly said. “If our kids like it, then I can tell you I’m certain that the recruits like it as well.” 
Frank said that while uni­forms rarely play a major role in recruits’ decisions, the new flex­ibility may contribute to chang­ing common perceptions of the Irish program. 
“I’m not sure it matters a tremendous amount, but in Notre Dame’s case it might be a unique thing,” Frank said. “I think the outward perception by some of these kids is that Notre Dame’s kind of a stuffy place — it’s not a very exciting, loose, fun place. … To make changes like this, I think it presents a perception that we’re not as old-fashioned and stuffy as a lot of people think. 
“I do think kids like to have new uniforms and different things. It’s like a shiny new toy. Everybody likes a new toy.” 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 



‘A key element’ 
By adapting to adversity, Fleming provides stabilizing presence on the field 
By ANDREW OWENS the type of coaching that we step that he’s as good in cov-Associate Sports Editor do have. I think we’ve done a erage as he is on the line of good job with that, and I think scrimmage, defending the run, During his time at Notre the coaching staff is set for a rushing the quarterback. That Dame, senior outside line-while now, so I don’t think we was the dimension we needed backer Darius Fleming has al-have to worry about that in the from Darius. He’s taken that ways been willing to adapt to future.” next step now in year two and new situations, whether it’s the Senior safety Jamoris can do those things for us. change of a base defense or, off Slaughter, who hails from the That’s where you build the un­the field, learning to cook. same class as Fleming, said the certainty . what is he doing, 
“I got to eat, so I’ve actu-senior linebacker has been an rushing, dropping.” ally started to teach myself a irreplaceable presence for the When using a three-linemen little bit,” he Irish defense. look, it makes the role of the said. “Just “I feel like outside linebackers even more 
“I feel like Darius is a key 
being away Darius is a critical in pressuring the quar­
element to the defense. 
from home key element to terback. Kelly said Fleming is 
— Mom’s not He’s one of those guys the defense,” exactly the kind of player the here to make that does everything Slaughter said. Irish need at the “cat” line-every meal. right. He’s going to set “He’s one of backer position. We have to that example and edge those guys “I would say that we placed a teach our-for the defense and do that does ev-high demand on him and we’re selves a bit.” his responsibilities.” erything right. demanding that kind of play 
Fl em i n g He’s going to from him,” Kelly said. “Instead admits he is set that exam-of just being a good player, 
Jamoris Slaughter 
still learn-ple and edge we’re demanding him to be a ing how to senior safety for the defense great player. And he’s risen to cook and is and do his re-that challenge. We’re challeng­open to try-sponsibilities. ing him every day. He’ll come ing new recipes, but said he He’s good with the pass rush to me on Sunday, two sacks one has not tried anything too dif-and he’s a great player.” weekend. Are you a real play­ficult just yet. Irish coach Brian Kelly said er? You need two more next 
“[I just cook for] my room-Fleming is crucial to the suc-week. mates, like [senior defensive cess of the defense because of “So it’s always been those end Kapron Lewis-Moore],” his versatility and the several jabs at him to keep pushing Fleming said. “So me and him hats he puts him to be the will cook together and we have on as a play-kind of player to feed ourselves, so we pitch maker on the we think he in and figure something out, unit. can be. And try new stuff and kind of go “He has the “I would say that we then along the from there.” dual respon-placed a high demand on way, you’re 
sibility of put-him and we’re demanding gaining con-Adapting on the field ting his hand that kind of play from fidence as 
Fleming, who has the second on the ground well.” 
him. Instead of just being 
most career sacks of any active and rushing In Flem-
a good player, we’re 
player, behind Ethan Johnson, as a defensive ing’s senior 
demanding him to be a 
has played for two different end, as well as season, he 
great player. And he’s 

coaching regimes, and suc-dropping off has continued cessfully navigated the switch in coverage,” risen to that challenge.” to do what he is out there will do their job,” big moments. from a base 4-3 defense to the Kelly said. has always Fleming said. “We have guys “Forcing turnovers is huge as 3-4 the Irish currently employ. “That individ-Brian Kelly done — adapt. dinged up, but the guys step-a defense, especially when the 
“[Adapting to the chang-ual position With sever-ping up are doing a great job offense is in scoring position, 
Irish coach 

es] has been a challenge at builds that al defensive and they’re helping the team you have to have players out times, but myself and a lot of uncertainty, players in-get better every week.” there that are going to make the other guys have adapted in what you’re jured, includ-plays and get the offense back really well through the dif-getting as a ing both de-A playmaker making plays there on the field,” he said. “I ferent coaches and different pre-snap look. If he’s only one-fensive ends, the management In last week’s 24-17 victory think we’ve done a decent job schemes, and [it] has helped dimensional, in other words, major has stepped up his game at Wake Forest, Fleming made and continue to get better, and us as players being coached if he can only rush the passer to another level as his team-a critical play that snuffed out I think it will carry over to the by different coaches and being and not drop, everybody knows mates thrive on his presence. what proved to be the Dea-games in the future.” in different schemes,” Flem-what you’re doing defensively. “I just do my job, and I know cons’ final scoring opportunity. With only three games re­ing said. “You just appreciate “He now has taken that next the guys around me and who Backed against its own end maining in the regular sea-
zone, the Irish defense got ex-son and a looming Senior Day actly what it needed — a turn-on Nov. 19, Fleming said he is over, in the form of a forced starting to realize his time at fumble. While senior safety Notre Dame is about to come to Harrison Smith was initially a close. credited with jarring the ball “I definitely [think about loose, Fleming was the one who it],” he said. “That’s definitely made the ini-kicked in. It’s tial hit, even been a fast 
“Forcing turnovers is huge 
if he does not time here, but 
as a defense, especially 
take full cred-it’s fun. The 
when the offense is in 
it for it. good and the “It was a scoring position, you have bad. I’ve en-
play much-to have players out there joyed all my needed at that that are going to make time with all time,” he said. plays and get the offense the players, “Me and Har-and [I have] 
back there on the field.” 
rison, we both just grown joke about with these 
Darius Fleming 
it; we made guys and just 
senior linebacker 
the play. We competing got there and with them. My made a big time here is hit and the ball came out and narrowing down, but I’m going it was an impact play in the to enjoy every moment of it.” game, so that was something With the bittersweet ending big for us to step up and make in sight, Fleming said he does that play. I’m not going to take not allow himself to think of all the credit. I’m actually go-what his lasting mark on the ing to share with Harrison, program might be. so I give myself half a caused “To be honest, I couldn’t an-fumble.” swer that question yet,” he said. 
The play ignited the defense “We have three more games the rest of the game, as the left and I’m going to try to unit held the Deacons score-leave a good mark with those, less throughout the second and after the bowl game, ask half, good enough to capture me that question and I think the seven-point victory and I’ll be able to answer.” improve to 6-3 on the sea-



Irish senior linebacker Darius Fleming lines up during Notre Dame’s 15-12 win over Pittsburgh on son. Fleming said the defense Contact Andrew Owens at Sept. 24. Fleming recorded four tackles and two sacks in the victory. thrives on making big plays in aowens2@nd.edu 
IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 

While sophomore quarter-Maryland’s defense has not COACHING back Tommy Rees did not have had the same starting lineup in While Maryland struggles to his best performance last week more than one game this year, even field a consistent starting against Wake Forest, throwing due largely to injuries. Every lineup on defense, Notre Dame two interceptions and earning starting linebacker and defen-has grown progressively more 


Head-to 

just 166 yards through the air, seive lineman has missed at comfortable in its schemes as 
Rees has generally found suc-least one game due an injury, the season goes on. cess through the air this sea-which has led to a number of Expect Irish coach Brian Kelly son, especially when finding se-freshmen seeing playing time. and offensive coordinator Char­nior receiver Michael Floyd. While this could pay dividends ley Molnar to attack the young 
Maryland ranks 49th in the in the future as the Terrapins Terrapins right where they are country in overall pass defense, build defensive depth, it is a li-weakest all game long. Don’t be allowing 214 passing yards per ability now, as Maryland cannot too surprised by a couple trick game in 2011, while the Irish outsmart or outmuscle oppos-play-calls, either. Notre Dame Offense throw for 255 yards per game, ing rushing games. good enough for 38th in the On the other side of the ball, EDGE: NOTRE DAME country. The Terrapins’ pass Irish senior running back Jonas 
7 TJ Jones So. 

rush will not be much of a fac-Gray is running the ball better WR 
81 John Goodman Sr. 

tor in the game, as the Mary-than he ever has, while junior 
WR 
9 Robby Toma Jr. 

land front seven has been inju-running back Cierre Wood qui­
7 TJ Jones So. 

ry-plagued all season, while the etly puts together a big season Notre Dame offensive line has as well. The Notre Dame offen­been stalwart. sive line has rebounded from its Irish junior receiver Theo poor performance against USC, 
70 Zack Martin Jr. 

Riddick will be out for the game and while senior center Braxs-LT
20 Cierre Wood Jr. 72 Nick Martin Fr. 
with an injury, but the key — as ton Cave will be sorely missed, 
RB 25 Jonas Gray Sr. 
always — will be whether Rees senior Mike Golic, Jr., will be up 66 Chris Watt Jr. can take care of the football. to the task of filling in for Cave. LG 51 Bruce Heggie So. Maryland is very good at taking The Irish should have no 11 Tommy Rees  So. 
57 Mike Golic Jr. Sr. 

the ball away, but if Rees finds problem setting the tempo of 
QB 

10 Dayne Crist Sr. 
76 Andrew Nuss Sr. 

only green jerseys on the ends the game with a powerful run-C of his passes, he should have ning attack. Gray and Wood will 
78 Trevor Robinson Sr. 

no trouble racking up plenty of have plenty of running room all 
RG 65 Conor Hanratty Fr. 

yards. night long. 
75 Taylor Dever Sr. 

EDGE: NOTRE DAME EDGE: NOTRE DAME RT 
74 Christian Lombard So. 

IRISH SCHEDULE 80 Tyler Eifert Jr. 
Sept. 3 South Florida TE 18 Ben Koyack Fr. (L, 23–20) Sept. 10 @ Michigan (L, 35-31) 
IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
Sept. 17 Michigan St. 3 Michael Floyd Sr. 
Notre Dame senior kicker David Ruffer has not seen a lot of ac­
87 Daniel Smith So. 

(W, 31-13) WR
tion recently, but he has improved on his rough start to the season. 
Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh Freshman kicker Kyle Brindza has been solid on kickoffs and con­(W, 15-12) tinues to improve his consistency, while junior punter Ben Turk Oct. 1 @ Purdue has found his groove after a rough opening stretch to the season. 
(W, 38-10) Freshmen twins George and Josh Atkinson have been sparks for Oct. 8 Air Force the Irish on special teams this year, as George has returned two (W. 59-33) kickoffs for touchdowns and Josh has made a number of key tack-Oct. 22 USC les on kickoff coverage. 

(L, 31-17) Notre Dame Defense Oct. 29 Navy EDGE: EVEN (W, 56-14) Nov. 5 @ Wake Forest 
(W, 24-17) Nov. 12 Maryland 12 Robert Blanton Sr. Nov. 19 Boston College CB 23 Lo Wood So. 
Nov. 26 @ Stanford
Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 
22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 

P ILB 
44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
9 Louis Nix So. 
NG 98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 
50 Ryan Kavanagh Sr. 

5 Manti Te’o Jr.
   60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 

LS ILB 
54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
DE 
50 Chase Hounshell Fr. 
81 John Goodman Sr. 

PR 
6 Theo Riddick Jr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 

26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 34 George Atkinson Fr. S 17 Zeke Motta Jr. OLB 56 Troy Niklas Fr. 
KR 28 Austin Collinsworth So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 

KO 
Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 
It’s a “home” game for the Irish, but Maryland’s football complex is less than 15 miles from FedEx Field. 
And that’s the only advantage the Terrapins will have. First-year coach Randy Edsall will eventu­ally turn this program around, but Maryland just isn’t a good team right now. Notre Dame isn’t great, 


but this one shouldn’t even be close. The Terrapins won’t be able to move the ball against the Irish defense, and the Notre Dame offense will have one of its best performances of the year. 
There is one small glimmer of hope for Maryland. Notre Dame is wearing the new Shamrock Series uni­forms, and Under Armour will whip up something hid­eous for the Terrapins. With that combination, very few people will be able to bear watching this Irish beatdown. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Maryland 10 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

My predictions have taken on a more negative outlook lately. I’ve given up on cheesy song lyrics, and the optimism they brought has all-but completely dissippated. 
Yet even I think Notre Dame should still win this one. Even if the Terrapins play smart and blitz up the middle on center Mike Golic, Jr., 

nearly every play, the Irish should be just fine. Jonas Gray or Cierre Wood can simply stay in the backfield and help with the blocking in those sit­uations, and Irish quarterback Tommy Rees can take his time finding an open receiver. 
And there should be plenty of open receivers against Maryland. There should also be plenty of big plays by the Notre Dame defense. 
Wow, even the pessimist is optimistic this week. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Maryland 9 
Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 

The outlook on the Notre Dame football program fluctuates week to week. After a poor performance 
— even a poor performance that re­sults in a win — fans and the media alike tend to jump ship. 
But the team seems to react dif­ferently. After a terrible loss to South Florida, the Irish came 
out strong against Michigan (even though they ended up losing the game). Then after Michigan, they dominated a good Michigan State team. Notre Dame came out strong after both a subpar win over Pittsburgh and a poor showing against USC. 
This week will be no different. Notre Dame struggled at times against Wake Forest, but pulled out a tough win. They are better than Maryland, and will surely come out firing in this Shamrock Series contest. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Maryland 20 

MARYLAND OFFENSIVE MARYLAND PASSING MARYLAND RUSHING COACHING Maryland is not a particu-The rushing game has in-
The Terrapins may have strug-larly passing-oriented team, creasingly become the focus of gled this season, but they have as the Terrapins rank 74th in the Maryland offense in recent not beaten themselves. Mary-the country with just 217 pass-weeks, as sophomore quarter-land is one of the least-penalized ing yards per game. Maryland back C.J. Brown has taken the 
o-Head teams in the country and ranks switches between two sopho-reins of the offense. Brown pro­
13th in the country in turnover more quarterbacks, the more vides quite the running threat margin. athletic starter C.J. Brown and on his own, as demonstrated Irish defensive coordinator the more traditional pocket by his 162-yard rushing perfor-Bob Diaco has molded a defen-passer Danny O’Brien. O’Brien mance against Clemson in his sive line that has played well de-struggled to lead the offense first carer start. The Terrapin spite losing two senior defensive in the early part of the season, rushing attack has been incon­ends. while Brown has used his mo-sistent this year, rolling up over bility to add a new dimension to 200 yards on the ground in two EDGE: EVEN the Terrapin passing game. straight games earlier this year The Irish pass defense has while also earning just 59 rush-been much-maligned this year, ing yards against Florida State. 



Maryland Defense 
CB 
25 Dexter McDougle So. 
but Notre Dame ranks 33rd in Junior linebacker Manti Te’o 
14 Jeremiah Johnson               Fr. 

the country against the pass, al-leads the Irish run defense, lowing just 200 yards per game. and while Te’o will be playing 
S 
48 Eric Franklin Jr. 
The Irish defensive line has on an injured ankle, he and 
29 Austin Walker Sr. 
done a good job of pressuring the rest of the Irish will have 35 Alex Twine  Fr. opposing quarterbacks, led by no problem stopping the attack OLB 47 Cole Farrand Fr. freshman defensive end Aaron of senior running back Davin Lynch. Meggett. The real question will 
41 Marcus Whitfield So. 
If Notre Dame can contain be whether the Notre Dame out-DE 67 Alvin Thomas Jr. Terrapin senior receiver Quin-side linebackers and defensive tin McCree, Brown and O’Brien ends will be able to contain 
72 Joe Vellano Jr. 
DT will not have too many other Brown, as mobile quarterbacks 93 Andre Monroe Fr. 9 Demetrius Hartsfield Jr. targets to look for — and they have given the Irish fits in the MLB 
53 Lorne Goree Fr. 
DT 
90 Maurice Hampton Sr. won’t have much time to look, past, most notably Michigan’s 
either. Denard Robinson. 
96 A.J. Francis Jr. 
DE 
91 Keith Bowers Fr. EDGE: EVEN EDGE: EVEN 
57 Ian Evans Fr. 
19 A.J. Hendy Fr. 52 Darin Drakeford Jr. S 27 Titus Till Fr. MARYLAND SCHEDULE OLB 15 Mario Rowson Fr. Sept. 5 Miami (W, 32-24) Sept. 17 West Virginia (L, 37-31) Sept. 24 Temple 
21 Trenton Hughes Sr. MARYLAND SPECIAL TEAMS 
(L, 38-7) 

CB 22 Cameron Chism Sr. Junior Nick Ferrara is one of the most versatile specialists in the 
Oct. 1 Towson 

country, as he handles the placekicking, punting and kickoff du­
(W, 28-3) 

ties for the Terrapins. Ferrara was a 2009 freshman All-American, 
Oct. 8 @ Georgia Tech 

and while he has continued to punt well, he has hit just 11 of his 16 
(L, 21-16) 

field-goal attempts in 2011. 
Oct. 15 Clemson 

Senior Tony Logan owns a number of Maryland records for punt 
(L, 56-45) 

returns and earned a 2010 all-ACC selection for his return prow-
Oct. 22 @ Florida State 

ess. The Terrapins pose little threat on kickoff returns, however, as 
(L, 41-16) 


Maryland Offense 
freshman Justus Pickett averages just 17 yards per return. 
Oct. 29 Boston College (L, 28-17) 
EDGE: MARYLAND 

17 Quintin McCree Sr. Nov. 5 Virginia 
WR 4 Ronnie Tyler Sr. (L, 31-13) Nov. 12 @ Notre Dame Nov. 19 @ Wake Forest 
89 Matt Furstenberg Jr. Nov. 26 @ NC State 
TE 34 Devonte Campbell Jr. 

Maryland Specialists 
RT
76 R.J. Dill Jr. 
   61 Jake Wheeler Fr. 
43 Nick Ferrara Jr. 

49 Tyler Cierski Fr. 
75 Justin Gilbert Jr. 

39 Jeff Hernandez Jr. 
RG 68 Josh Cary So. FB PK 
43 Nick Ferrara Jr. 63 Bennett Fulper Jr. 16 C.J. Brown So. PC 65 Sal Conaboy Fr. QB 5 Danny O’Brien So. 
LS 
92 Tim Downs Sr. 
67 Pete White So. 

RB 
8 Sr. 
LG De’Onte Arnett So. Davin Meggett 
70 

44 Justus Pickett Fr. 
1 Tony Logan Sr. 

LT 
73 Max Garcia So. 
PR 
74 Nick Klemm So. 

KR 
44 Justus Pickett Fr. 
KO 
43 Nick Ferrara Jr. 
WR 
85 Matt Aiken So. 
86 Brandon Turner Jr. 

Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame survived its trip to Wake Forest last weekend, and now it’s week two against ACC oppo­nents, and a much worse opponent at that. 
Even if the Irish play poorly, they should still have no problem cruis­ing to a win Saturday. 
The Terrapins substitute quar­

terbacks almost as much as they change uniform combinations, but it should not be too much of a concern for the Irish defense as it tries to build upon last week’s second-half shutout of Wake Forest. 
Essentially, Notre Dame gets two scrimmages before a season-ending showdown with undefeated Stanford. It can be a valuable opportunity to implement some new looks and provide some playing time for Andrew Hen­drix. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45, Maryland 17 
Chris Masoud 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Welcome to the latest installment of the Shamrock Series, a clever mar­keting ploy devised by adidas and Under Armour to disguise football players as washed-up manikins. In­spired by the villain Two-Face, Mary­land will be wearing its “Pride” uni­form (the Maryland state flag) when it takes the field Saturday night. Not 

to be outdone, the Irish will don the green jerseys and a curiously redesigned helmet that fea­tures a large shamrock. 
If Notre Dame and Maryland can maintain consistency in their appearance from week to week, both teams have searched in vain for consistency in play. There’s a reason the Terps have lost five straight. Look for Brian Kelly’s redesigned vanilla offense to take advantage of a reeling squad. But why can’t they just wear blue and gold? 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Maryland 17 




Irish face Terps’ versatile attack 




By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
The Shamrock Series has seen the Irish host “home” games in such unfamiliar locales as San Antonio’s Alamodome and Yankee Stadium in New York and includes games in Chicago and Dallas in the future. But perhaps no off-site contest will feel more like an away game than this weekend’s matchup against Maryland at FedEx Field in Landover, Md. 
“We’re back on the road with Maryland this week, and I know it’s technically a home game, but we’re in Washington, D.C., and that’s Maryland’s backyard,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We are mentally preparing ourselves to go in to play on the road again and all that goes with that.” 
While the Irish (6-3) will be wearing their green jerseys and special Shamrock Series helmets, the Terrapins (2-7) will don their “Maryland Pride” uniform set for the second time this season — and with FedEx Field less than half an hour from College Park, why not? 
“We play an away game this weekend, but we are treating it like a home game,” Maryland coach Randy Edsall said. “We are look­ing forward to playing on Saturday night.” 
Edsall is currently in his first year at the Terrapins’ helm, hav­ing left Connecticut to take over the Maryland program after previous coach Ralph Friedgen was fired in an acrimonious end to the Ter­rapins’ 2010 season. While Fried­gen’s final year saw Maryland win 10 games, including a bowl game victory, the Terrapins have strug­gled this year under Edsall. 
Despite the struggles, Edsall be­lieves his program is on the right track. 
“All anyone looks at from the out­side is how many we win and how many we lose. That is the business we are in,” he said. “I look at the big picture though. When we are installing a program, there is more than just wins and losses. I feel that it is the total program that we are installing that needs to develop. 
“We are improving in a lot of ar­eas. We just aren’t winning on the field right now. That will happen; I am confident of that.” 
As Edsall finishes up his first year as coach and begins looking towards his second year, he said he believes next year will be easier than the first. 
“There is no question it will [be easier.] Everyone has a philosophy and a plan of action, and you are going to install that plan of ac­tion,” Edsall said. “The press and the fans only see what happens on Saturday and they judge us on that, and I understand that, but it is more than just that. It’s a big part of it, but there is a lot of progress being made.” 
Sophomore quarterback C.J. Brown may be the most tangible evidence of that progress. Brown replaced fellow sophomore gun­slinger Danny O’Brien as the starter in Maryland’s 56-45 loss to Clemson on Oct. 15 and turned in an eye-opening performance, rushing for 162 yards and add­ing 177 passing yards and three passing touchdowns. Brown and O’Brien continue to split time un­der center, posing a challenge for the Irish. 
“They have a real one-two punch at quarterback,” Notre Dame de­fensive coordinator Bob Diaco said. “[Brown is] a real runner, a fast not flashy runner, but he can really gas it. [O’Brien] is an excellent passer.” 
In addition, Diaco said the rest of the offense is better than the Ter­rapins’ record may indicate. 
“Maryland has talented wide re­ceivers, talented backs, a talented tight end, a big physical offensive line … I try to bring the evalua­tion honestly each week. This is an outstanding offensive line,” Diaco said. “It’s going to be a huge chal­lenge for our defense.” 
While Brown, O’Brien and the rest of the Maryland offense pose a threat to the Irish defense, Kelly said he expects Edsall to provide a stiff challenge, especially after Ed­sall’s experience leading Connecti­cut to an upset victory at Notre Dame Stadium in 2009. 
“I know Randy Edsall,” Kelly said. “He’s a darned good football coach, and he’ll have the memories of coming in here to Notre Dame and beating Notre Dame and play­ing physical. That’s what his teams will do, so we have to be prepared and worry about ourselves. “ 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 






Golic Jr. steps into starting role with Cave injured 
By CHRIS MASOUD feel terrible for Braxston, and Assistant Managing Editor again, he’s given us everything over the past two years, but he 
Notre Dame suffered its sec-will be back, and that’s the good ond major blow on the injury part about it.” front in as many weeks Satur-Fellow senior Kapron Lewis-day, losing senior center Braxs-Moore succumbed to a season-ton Cave for the season due to ending knee injury during Notre a torn foot ligament sustained Dame’s loss to USC on Oct. 22. during the Lewis-Moore team’s 24-17 has been suc­victory over ceeded by a Wake Forest. deep group The senior of defen­had season-sive linemen ending sur-that includes 
gery Thurs-“We’ve got a great deal freshmen 
day to repair Aaron Lynch, 
of confidence in Mike 
the ligament, Stephon Tu-
Golic. Mike came in, 
but Irish itt and Chase 
played very well for us.” 

coach Brian Hounshell. Kelly said he Cave, on the expects the Brian Kelly other hand, Granger, Ind., Irish coach will be re-native to re-placed by the turn next sea-only remain-son in his final ing center on year of eligi-the Irish ros­bility. ter: Mike Golic came in, played very well for ball from Cave, Rees said he has that he was kind of calm and 


“ B r a x s t o n Jr. The senior us, Kelly said. “I think when an excellent feel of where Golic he was playing,” Rees said. “He Cave will be stepped in for you look at the center position, positions the football thanks to really didn’t have to think too out for the season,” Kelly said Cave on Saturday, but has yet to there’s always a great concern multiple reps and center rota-much — it was just to rally be-Tuesday. “It’s a tough loss for log significant playing time at because that guy is put in a very tions in practice. hind all the guys.” us, and Braxston has been a the position on game days. difficult situation — shotgun “It’s a lot more than just mak-Although Golic has been consistent performer for us “We’ve got a great deal of snaps, changing up the cadence, ing the snaps thrust into a over the past couple years. We confidence in Mike Golic. Mike calling out some of the defensive and making starting role, 

fronts and structures. But Mike sure there Kelly credits has done a nice job, and we have is chemistry his signifi­a great deal of confidence.” there,” he said. cant devel-
Kelly added that senior An-“There is a lot “It’s a lot more than opment from drew Nuss will move from the of communica-just making the snaps last year as left guard position to a role as tion going on and making sure the potential the backup center. Sophomore with the quar-there is chemistry catalyst be-Bruce Heggie will take Nuss’ terback and hind his suc­
here. There is a lot of 
former position. the center. I’ve cess moving 
communication going 
Although Notre Dame has worked with forward. 
on with the quarterback 
suffered from multiple fumbled Mike a lot in the “The cen­
and the center.” 
snaps this season, Kelly main-past. I don’t an-ter posi­tains confidence in Golic’s abil-ticipate there to tion — those ity to feed the football to sopho-be much of an Tommy Rees guys have more quarterback Tommy Rees. issue there.” Irish quarterback to stay on 
“You’ve got to shotgun snap Golic entered their feet,” that ball to Tommy Rees, the Saturday’s con-Kelly said. quarterback, in a consistent test in the sec-“Mike is get-fashion.” If the ball is off a little ond quarter ting better bit, it messes up the timing,” and bolstered at that. He’s he said. “One of the traits that an offensive line that allowed getting stronger. But he’s a BCS we’ve liked about Mike from Notre Dame to run out the clock football player, so he’s athletic day one is his ability to snap with 5:24 remaining. Rees reaf-enough that he can do those the ball. The other things have firmed Kelly and the offense’s things. He has to continue to de­come. He’s gotten stronger, he’s confidence in Golic’s ability to velop his strength, and he has. more physical. He’s certainly replace Cave for the remainder He is so far ahead of where he not as strong as Braxston, but of the season. was last year, and now he’s a he is physically able to move his “I talked to him after the first starter for us.” feet, get out and do the things.” drive he was in, and said, ‘We 
Although Rees has become believe in you. We don’t have Contact Chris Masoud at accustomed to receiving the any doubts,’ just to make sure cmasoud@nd.edu 






