
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Puppies sniff out student stress 
by AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Wet noses warmed student hearts at the first “Puppy Days” event, held at Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus building Friday. 
The event, sponsored by student government’s Con­stituent Services Committee and Circle K, brought five dogs and a rabbit from the Humane Society of St. Joseph County to campus to relieve student stress, event coor­dinator sophomore Lizzie Helpling said. 
“Because we live on a col­lege campus, we’re isolated from ‘petable’ animals,” she said. “Talking to my friends, pets are what they miss most at college.” 
More than 500 students at­tended the event, five times the number organizers planned for, Helpling said. 
“From having a dog at home, I know how relaxing it is to pet an animal,” she said. “This gives students a taste of home and shows them the responsibilities of 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
owning a pet just out of col-

Priscilla the chihuahua visits the Knights of Columbus building to snuggle away stress on Friday see DOGS/page 4 afternoon. The Humane Society of St. Joseph County brought five dogs and a rabbit to campus. 


Student hits building, flees scene 
Observer Staff Report 
Police arrested a Notre Dame senior Saturday night when he crashed his truck into a vacant building at a South Bend inter­section and then fled the scene of the accident. 
Sgt. James Walsh from the South Bend Police Depart­ment said the crash occurred around 10 p.m. at the intersec­tion of Eddy Street and South Bend Avenue. 
“The driver overcorrected on his turn and drove into the building,” Walsh said. 
Walsh said none of the evi­dence points to intoxication as a factor in the accident. 
The student left his car and returned home. Walsh said the building was structurally sound before the crash and is now “very unstable and dan­gerous.” 
Police arrested the student at 


see CRASH/page 4 

Project supports cancer patients 


By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 

Hundreds of students gathered in South Dining Hall Saturday afternoon to make fleece blankets for cancer patients at the an­nual Aidan Project. 
The project, sponsored by Circle K and Knott Hall, began in 2006 when for­mer Knott resident Aidan Fitzgerald, then a sopho­more, was diagnosed with testicular cancer. 
Over 400 students at­tended Saturday’s event. Knott service commissioner Mitchell Lopes said partici­pants made 324 blankets and raised $2,000 from T-shirt sales, both improve­ments from last year’s event. 
The money will be do­nated to the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis where Fitzgerald was treat­ed. The blankets will be do­nated to multiple hospitals, but primarily to Riley. Lopes said Fitzgerald de­
veloped  the  idea  for  the  
project  after  he  went  into  
remission.  

“After he beat the cancer he thought it would be great if he could start something in tribute to cancer [treat­ment], so he came up with this project,” Lopes said. “He [had a friend in] Circle K and lived in Knott, so he 


see BLANKET/page 5 
ND police investigate attempted stabbing 
Observer Staff Report 
A female student attempted to stab a male student acquaintance in a Siegfried Hall room Sunday night. 
The incident occurred around 
8:40 p.m., University Spokesman Dennis Brown said.  The male student was not injured and Notre Dame Security Police was ques­tioning the female student on Sunday night, he said. 
WNDU reported that after a struggle, the male was able to take the knife and locked the girl in the room until officers arrived. 
Siegfried rector Fr. John Conley deferred comment to University officials and Brown declined fur­ther comment. 
At the time of publication, the students’ names had not been re­leased and there was no informa­tion about potential charges. 


Music duo heads to Uganda 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
This winter break, Notre Dame seniors Nick Gunty and Brian Powers will have the opportunity to combine social justice with their passion for songwriting. 
After they finish their final ex­ams, the two will head to Khindu, Uganda, to record an album with the local Barefoot Truth Chil­dren’s Choir and the group, “Per­cussion Discussion.” 
“This project is about produc­ing music with a message,” Pow­ers said. “The songs that we write are going to be about what they’re going through in Uganda… The great thing about this project is that it has the potential to reach a large amount of people. 
The musical duo named itself the “The Frances Luke Accord.” Gunty and Powers said they plan to pursue musical careers after graduation. 
see BAND/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Priest speaks on poverty page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Campus Christmas decorations page 9 u ND selected for Champ Sports Bowl page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Monday, December 5, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE TYPE OF PUPPY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Sean Hilson Alexis Pala Danielle Guilfoyl Ellie Tumminello Lauren Couey Margaret Archibald 
graduate student freshman junior freshman junior junior Off campus Welsh Family Badin Welsh Family McGlinn Badin 
“Corgies.” “Bulldog.” “Boxer.” “Shih Tzu.” “Lil’ Bow Wow.” “Pekepoo.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Woman slams dead racoon against Vermont building 
BURLINGTON, Vt. — Po­lice in Vermont say a wom­an who might have been angry about a dead rac­coon left on a street took its bloody carcass to City Hall and angrily slammed it against the building’s doors. 
Burlington police say the woman left the raccoon’s body outside City Hall be­fore walking off one morn­ing two weeks ago. 
Witnesses have told the Burlington Free Press the animal might have been hit on a nearby street and that the woman might have been upset no one from the city had come to collect it. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
Police say the woman faces a possible vandalism charge. They also say her actions created a public health hazard. 
They’re seeking the pub­lic’s help in identifying the woman and have released a description and surveil­lance photo of her. 
Motorists grab bags of money fallen from courier 
UPPER ST. CLAIR, Pa. 
— A bank courier van has spilled more than $100,000 in cash along a Pennsylvania high­way, and motorists have stopped to grab it. 
Police say much of the money was blown around by the wind. Lt. James En­glert says “well into six figures” in cash is missing after the money grab in Upper St. Clair, just south­west of Pittsburgh. 
Police are investigat­ing why the door of the Fidelity Courier Service van opened. But they say the fact the door opened doesn’t mean the money was free. They say taking it is theft. 
Anyone who took money has a two-week grace pe­riod to return it without fear of prosecution. 
The courier company is offering a reward for the return of the money. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



IN BRIEF 
The Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics will sponsor the colloquium titled “Algebraic Statis­tics for Network Models” tomorrow from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 127 of the Hayes Healy Center. 
The Department of Aero­space and Mechanical En­gineering will host a semi­nar titled “Mechanics of Crystalline Nanowires” on Tuesday from 3:30 to 
4:30 p.m. in 138 Debartolo Hall. Assistant professor of Mechanical Engineer­ing Harold S. Park will discuss modeling mechan­icsms used to describe the mechanics of crystalline nanowires. 
The Department of Chem­ical and Biomolecular Engi­neering will sponsor a sem­inar titled “Layer-by-layer Assembly of Transparent Thin Films on Polymeric Substrates for Gas Bar­rier, Fire Resistance, and Transparent Electrodes” on Tuesday from 3:30 to 
4:30 p.m. Associate Pro­fessor Jamie C. Grunlan 
will discuss the making of multifunctional thin films. 
Entreprenuerial Insights will host another install­ment in its lecture series titled “Entrepreneurship: It Never Ends!” Mike Vogel, Entrepreneur in Residence at the Gigot Center for En­trepreneurial Studies, will speak in the Jordan Audi­torium at the Mendoza Col­lege of Business from 5 to 

6:30 p.m. on Tuesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Sara Felsenstein Nicole Tocazeur Nicole Michels 

Graphics 
Dan Azic 

Photo 
Pat Coveney 


Sports 

Kelsey Manning Vicky Jacobsen Matthew DeFranks 

Scene 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 

Viewpoint 
HIGH 35 LOW 28 
HIGH 38 LOW 28 
HIGH 36 LOW 27 
HIGH 34 LOW 26 
HIGH 30 LOW 23 

Meghan Thomassen 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 









Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Priest speaks on poverty and compassion in cities 
By VIENNA WAGNER 
News Writer 
The first step to aiding the poor is to stand with them, Fr. Fred Kammer said in a lecture to Urban Plunge participants Sunday. 
Kammer is the executive director of the Jesuit Social Research Institute and has worked as the president of Catholic Charities USA. The lecture, titled, “Building Jus­tice in the Cities,” addressed breaking the cycle of urban poverty. 
“Making the invisible visible is the first step to compassion,” Kammer said. “Standing with the poor is a touchstone that gives us a wisdom that comes from the poor themselves and leads us to make judgments in favor of the poor.” 
Kammer said taking a stand with the poor challenges our society’s dominant views. 
“Standing with those who are poor introduces us to a new way of seeing the world around us,” he said. “This in­sistence on personal contact runs against our culture’s pro­clivity to see the poor as invis­ible or faceless.” 
But Kammer said casting away these views and keeping contact with the poor is cru­cial. 
“Think about your life and try to maintain contact with at least one person who is poor or marginalized and support one issue pertaining to the poor,” he said. “Connect the face of Christ to the poor.” 
This practice of seeing God in the poor is a longstand­ing one, Kammer said. He ap­pealed to students to follow the example of historical Israel and show their faith by help­ing those in need. 
“In biblical Israel … the poor became a measure of Israel’s fidelity to the Lord,” Kammer said. “We Christians should ask the question, ‘How will this affect the poor?’ The fun­damental moral criterion for all economic policies is that they must be at the service of all people, especially the poor.” 
Kammer said once people make an initial commitment to stand with the poor, they might change the way they live their own lives. 
“One of the first reactions that people have is to adopt a simpler lifestyle,” he said. “This choice is a stance appro­priate to students.  Individu­als who stand with the poor also stand with them in their career choices whether by choosing to teach in inner-city schools instead of the suburbs or doing social work in place of commercial law. 
“The needs of the poor take priority over the desire of the rich,” Kammer said. 

Kammer said always main­taining hope is crucial, as he differentiated between hope and optimism. 
“Standing with the poor can usher us into their own expe­rience of failure and margin­alization,” Kammer said. “It’s therefore important for us to maintain a fundamental atti­tude of hope.” 
Contact Vienna Wagner at vwagner2@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Monday, December 5, 2011 

Dogs 
continued from page 1 
lege.” 
The Humane Society wel­comed the chance to come to campus, outreach coordina­tor Genny Carlson said. 
“I’m glad there are so many students who love ani­mals,” she said. “We always look for events like this.” 
Carlson brought dogs she knew could handle a crowd, such as Jack, a chow mix known affectionately as “Happy Jack.” 
Another dog, a yellow lab and Shar Pei mix named Alex, spent the morning at a grade school before visiting Notre Dame. 
“I saw him coming in from the school and brought him right here,” Carlson said. “It gets them out of the shelter for an afternoon. They get lots of love and dog treats.” 
Many students said they attended the event because they miss their pets from home. Freshman Katie Bas­com said she attended be­cause she misses her gold­en retriever, who lives 600 miles away from campus. 
“I actually didn’t come be­cause of stress,” she said. “I miss my dog.” 
Bascom said she would love to attend another Puppy Days event featuring another popular pet. 
“I would love to see kittens here,” she said. “Everyone loves to play with kittens.” 
The Humane Society saw the event as a chance to pro­mote volunteering opportu­nities to students, she said. 
“For volunteers, we want people who have the time to dedicate to [the animals,]” Carlson said. 
Sophomore Lindsay Rojas said the event helped her cope with being away from her pet shih tzu, Gizmo. 
“I couldn’t pick a favorite [dog],” she said. “It really helped with stress.” 
On-campus service orga­nization Circle K volunteers support at the Humane So­ciety, senior Jessica Choi, leader of that volunteering effort, said. 
“It means a lot to me that we got the Humane Soci­ety out to campus,” she said Friday. “The project died down, and I’ve been trying to revive it for the last three years. Bringing it back as a project and event, especially with all these people here, is amazing.” 
Choi said Circle K is always looking for more volunteers to add to the group, which trains the animals for adop­tion by walking them and spending time with them. 
“In terms of volunteers, we want dedicated people with lots of love for service and animals,” she said. “They have to have a lot of time.” 
For more information on the Humane Society and vol­unteering with Circle K, visit http://www.humanesocietys­tjc.org 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Student represents Flex Watches 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
When Notre Dame sopho­more Steve O’Hara sat down to watch MTV’s, “Real World: San Diego,” over fall break, he did not imagine it would lead 
to a new job. marketing prof­
“There are 10 watches 
But after seeing the compa-c o m p a n y ’ s itable and 
to choose from, and 
ny Flex Watches featured on product in a can give 
each one represents a 
the MTV show, O’Hara said he variety of cre-back to the was hooked by Flex Watches’ ative ways. different charity.” communi­philosophy, which is based on “I had to get ty,” he said. the belief that 21st-century an article in Steve O’Hara “It’s not all businesses can be both profit-the [campus] about mak­
sophomore 
are all about is part of my strategy.” 
O’Hara said his time work­ing with Flex Watches proves that a company can still be a force of change in the world. 
“A busi­ness can be both 
will go toward finding a cure for breast cancer.” 
The slogan for Flex Watches is “10 colors, 10 charities, 10 percent.” 
O’Hara said his campus rep­resentative po­sition requires
 the 
able and charitable. newspaper 
O’Hara said this philosophy and put up made him decide to become a Facebook sta­campus representative for the tuses,” O’Hara said. “The ulti-San Diego-based company. mate goal would be to get Flex 
“I wanted to buy a watch Watches in a local store or the and even-[Hammes Notre tually Dame] Book-became store.” a cam-O’Hara, a la­
“A business can be both 
pus rep crosse player 
profitable and can give 
to spread at Notre Dame, 
back to the community. 
a w a r e -considers his in­
It’s not all about making 
ness for volvement with the com-money; it’s about Flex Watches pa ny,” making an impact on more of an ex-O’Hara the world around you.” tracurricular s a i d . activity than a “Th ere job. 
Steve O’Hara 
are 10 “My first plan 
sophomore 
watches of attack was to choose sending out an from, and email to the en-each one tire [lacrosse] represents a different charity. team,” O’Hara said. “Network-For example, 10 percent of the ing with friends and trying to proceeds from a pink watch explain what Flex Watches 
ing the scene of an accident 
Crash 
causing property damage. He spent several hours in the St. continued from page 1 Joseph County Jail on Sunday 
morning. his off-campus home about an Walsh predicted the student hour after the crash for leav-would face a misdemeanor ing money; 
it’s about 
making an impact on the world around you.” 
Working for a company based in Southern California has not presented any chal­lenges, O’Hara said. 
“When you order a watch, they ask how you found out about the product,” O’Hara said. “People are supposed to use my name as a reference so they know how well I am promoting and advertising the product.” 
Interested buyers can pur­chase a Flex Watch just in time for the holiday season. 
“You can go to www.flex­watches.com or email me at sohara4@nd.edu if interested in buying one,” he said. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
charge from the St. Joseph Country Prosecutor’s Office in the next few days. The Observ­er is withholding the student’s identity because he has not yet been formally charged with a crime. 


Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Band 
continued from page 1 
Kevin Dugan, manager of youth and community programs for the Athletic Department, ap­proached the duo about going to Uganda after its performance at last December’s Stand for Sudan Peace Rally. 
Dugan is also the founder and director of Fields of Growth In­ternational, an organization that introduces lacrosse and human development to poverty-stricken communities. Fields of Growth helped launch lacrosse in Ugan­da’s capital, Kampala. 
“The goal of this album is that once we start to sell it, all the profits will be sent back to the children to help build schools, [to] better the communities and to fund the projects undertaken by Fields of Growth,” Gunty said. 
Gunty said the group plans to go to Khindu with several songs already composed, but intends to write a large portion of the music once there. They will also collaborate with the choir on songs the children already know and perform. 

“What we’re writing about is going to be heavily focused on the lives of those children,” Gun­ty said.  “We want this album to be about those children and their lives, the joys and the hard­ships . everything about their experience.” 
Powers said he is excited by the challenge of synthesizing two very different styles of mu­sic. The Frances Luke Accord typically produces folk music, but will now be working with the styles and beats of African mu­sic. 
“We’ve never had an African aspect, so that’s going to be the big challenge . incorporating our folky kind of music with African musical styles,” Powers said. 
Gunty said he is excited and motivated by the idea of working with an African children’s choir. 
“It will be artistically engag­ing to work with these kids and to come up with a project, col­laborating with people in such a completely different culture with its own sense of music and art,” he said. 
Powers said he expects com­munication with the children to be a more basic challenge. 
“One of the issues will be com­municating with the kids who will definitely have a very low level of English proficiency,” he said. “I expect that we will be working with them on pronun­ciation of words in some of our songs.” 

While in Uganda, Gunty and Powers will also work with Per­cussion Discussion, a very prom­inent Ugandan musical group whose music was featured in the movie, “The Last King of Scot­land.” 
The Frances Luke Accord will perform with Percussion Discus­sion at the National Theater in Kampala. 
Powers and Gunty said they are excited to make music with both groups and to help get the message out about the social and economic problems prevalent in Uganda. 
“This album is about shar­ing cultures, and intrinsic to that is learning about how they lives their lives, getting to know them personally,” Gunty said. “I see it as an opportunity to learn more about their situation and to spread that awareness.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s hosts Winter Wonderland 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News Writer 
South Bend may still be void of snow, but Saint Mary’s students welcomed children from across the community to a Winter Wonderland celebration Sat­urday. 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) held the sec­ond annual holiday party in various locations around Saint Mary’s campus for un­derprivileged children aged five to 12. The children in attendance were mostly from Coquillard Primary Center, a Title I school the College collaborates with through tutoring programs. 
In addition to the elemen­tary school, Saint Mary’s extended the invitation this year to South Bend’s Center for the Homeless and Hope Ministries. 
Over 20 different St. Mary’s clubs united to help create the seasonal spirit. 
Junior Stefanie Schwab, SAB treasurer, said in a Col­lege press release that 100 children, mostly from Co­quillard, attended Winter Wonderland last year. 
“It is exciting because we have 20 clubs participat­ing in the event this year,” Schwab said. “The clubs range from the Student Di­versity Board to cheerlead­ing, and all bring something unique to the event. [The event is] a great opportunity for the students to interact with the kids and to give back to the community that 


Blanket 
continued from page 1 
brought the two together.” 
Sophomore Mara Stolee, Aidan Project commissioner for Circle K, said the project is so popular with students because of its convenience. 
“We run the event on cam­pus, in South Dining Hall, which makes it extremely easy [for them] to take a few hours of their time and do something nice for others,” she said. 
Circle K not only purchases the fleece, but also precuts it, Stolee said, making it feasible for students to stop by only briefly and still complete a blanket. 
Lopes agreed that it is easy to contribute to the Aidan project. 
“It’s a fairly quick project, so you don’t have to spend hours of time or a full day there,” he said. “You can pop in for 15 minutes, make a blanket, and you’ve done something constructive that helps some­one. There’s a sense of accom­plishment being able to say, “Hey, I only spent 15 minutes and I helped this great cause.” 
Junior Tyler Smith has at­tended the Aidan Project the past three years because of his close relationship with Fitzgerald. 
“I came to know him through my brother, who was his roommate and best friend,” Smith said. “Going to the Aiden Project is not only a way to help those who have we live in.” 
The Around the World Club partnered with the History Club to host a table that created different crafts using candy canes, teaching the kids about how Christ­mas is celebrated in other countries. 
The English Club gathered to read Christmas stories to the children from Coquil­lard. 
Santa Clause sat on the bottom floor of the Student Center listening to chil­dren’s, as well as college students’, Christmas lists. 
Sophomore Emily Murphy worked a shift with Santa Clause, helping children create picture frames for their photographs with San­ta. 
“They got their picture right away, which was nice. The [children] made the pic­ture frame while the picture developed,” Murphy said. “I helped out with the glue gun because we didn’t want them to get hurt.” 
Junior Megan Woodring, chair of SAB’s Traditional Events Committee, said in the press release that SMC Wonderland is one of the best events of the semester. 
“This event stands out be­cause it brings everyone in the Saint Mary’s communi­ty together for one specific purpose: to give back dur­ing the holiday season,” Wo­odring said. “It gets every­one in the holiday spirit.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
cancer, but to support Aidan.” 
Smith said Fitzgerald’s per­sonality helps the project continue to reach high atten­dance numbers. 
“He is very well-liked throughout the Notre Dame community,” he said. “And even though he has gradu­ated, [Fitzgerald] continues to maintain many friendships with people still here.” 
Sophomores Cara Curran and Colleen Kerins also par­ticipated in the Aidan Project because of personal relation­ships with Fitzgerald. 
“We went last year because Aidan was a Cavanaugh foot­ball coach, so a lot of Cavana­ugh girls were involved,” Ker-ins said. 
Curran said the project is a simple way to give back to those less fortunate. 
“You can just go and re­lax and hang out with your friends,” she said. “And they make it really easy for you to make the blankets.” 
Stolee said the brilliance of the Aidan Project stems from the way it takes a simple idea and applies it on such a large scale. 
“Cancer changes the way people live their lives, but with the Aidan Project we hope to change the way that they live with cancer by offering them gifts of love and support,” she said. “Cancer patients fight a hard battle, and it is impor­tant that they know each day that people care about them and are cheering them on.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, December 5, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sidewalk etiquette 
Notre Dame students may be some of the most intelligent kids in America, but frankly, they could use a lesson in side­walk etiquette. So I have decided to take it upon myself to educate the populace. 
First, we have 

Emma Russ 
the issue of bikers. The sidewalk is 

News Writer 
made for pedes­trians. If you’re going to ride your bike at a million miles an hour, enter a bike race. Otherwise, ride at a reasonable pace or get off the sidewalk. 
I for one have had too many close calls with bikers and have been the victim of a crash which left me bruised and scraped. 
Secondly, people here have a tendency to travel in packs, taking up way too much space on the sidewalk and refus­ing to make room for people walking in the other direction. Freshmen, you know who you are. If you have ever encoun­tered one of these packs, then you have probably been forced into the grass so you did not get trampled. 
Then, you ended up stepping in a huge puddle. Come on, people — just make an effort to move over. 
Next, we have the issue of sidewalk PDA. Holding hands on the way to class is completely unnecessary, but if you must, at least separate when necessary to make room for other walkers. To all those Notre Dame couples, you can stand to be apart for two seconds in your life. Trust me, you will survive. 
On another note, be friendly. Have you ever run into “that one guy” that you met at some party last year? You talked for an entire hour, and you totally recognize him and are about to say “Hi,” when you see him look away and pretend he doesn’t recognize you. 
Don’t be that guy. Just say hello, or at least give a friendly smile. Everyone loves a smile on the way to class. 
But can you ever be too friendly? Everyone has experienced that awkward moment when you see someone you know from far away, and they see you too because they are walking straight towards you, but you can’t say “Hi” yet because you would be yelling down the sidewalk. 
So you either awkwardly look away and pretend to be really interested in a squirrel or else whip out your phone and pretend to be texting. I don’t have any suggestions for this situation. It’s just awkward. 
Then we have the hands-free phone talkers — so confusing. Not only do you look like a crazy person talking to your­self, you might also trick other walkers into thinking you are talking to them. I know I am not the only one to have mistakenly started a conversation with a hands-free phone talker only to discover I am actually having a conversation with no one but myself. 
Finally, sidewalks follow the rules of general streets. If you have ever driven a car or been a passenger in any type of moving vehicle, you will have noted that people drive on the right side of the road. In turn, you should walk on the right side of the sidewalk in order to avoid collision. This isn’t England. Save it for study abroad. 
To conclude this little lesson in side­walk etiquette, I would like to advise everyone to follow these simple rules. If every student did, Notre Dame sidewalks could a much happier and safer place to traverse. 
Contact Emma Russ at      eruss@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The majority’s role 

We throw around the term “major­ity” and “minority” everywhere. 
In any case in which we can use the term “majority,” we are implying there is a minority. This applies to spheres of race, gender, sexual orienta-Edithstein Cho tion, socioeco­nomic status, Asiatic Gaze ability, reli­gion, national origin, age, etc. 
Let’s focus on race. Notre Dame’s undergraduate student body is 72 percent white — no new facts here. You are in the majority if you fall into the white category. If you count in this majority, it can feel as if the invitation from any minority group doesn’t apply to you. It may even seem much less than welcoming to you. 
I don’t blame you for feeling left out sometimes. Notre Dame’s environment makes me feel self-conscious about how I fit into my “race” as a minority student. Interestingly, I found out that this doesn’t only apply to me and other minority students. 
Many of my white friends repeatedly express similar sentiments. My white friends who belong to diverse settings back home especially find the “race” landscape to be much more exclusive at Notre Dame. One friend specifically worded it like this: Taking part in a minority’s event at Notre Dame feels like trying to be overly politically cor­rect.  
These sentiments showcase why diversity is a discussion that must be taken up both by the minority and ma­jority. They also confirm that we have 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
a lot of work to do.
 So far, Notre Dame has made many great efforts to bring diversity to the discussion. Many passionate students, staff and community members come together for the Practicum in Diver­sity Education to train upperclassmen for freshmen’s Contemporary Topic’s Diversity Day. Multicultural Student Programs and Services also have great support systems for the student clubs concerning diversity. Difficulties arise in trying to balance providing support for minorities while facilitating the relationship between the majority and minority. Despite the existing pro­grams, we have more to do. 
We cannot afford to forgo revealing the actual dynamics that underlay the minority-majority dialogue. The first step to any problem solving should be gauging the starting point. 
“Show Some Skin: The Race Mono­logues” formed itself on exactly this as its base; they want to start from scratch. It’s a brand new project spon­sored by the Student Government and the Center for Undergraduate Schol­arly Engagement (CUSE). The produc­tion “aims to provide a platform for sharing experiences on ethnicity and race to enhance our ongoing conver­sation on diversity in the Notre Dame community.” 
They want to hear from every angle on “race.” Everyone has something to say about race, whether or not you’re in a majority or a minority. You may be someone who thinks race doesn’t influence your life at all. You may think race carves out a different space for you in society. You may feel that you don’t fall into society’s racial categories. However you feel, there is a story underneath it. 
Imagine reliving those moments that made you think about race and put it down on paper. Help us to get into your shoes by describing that moment with your five senses, then share your story with “Show Some Skin: The Race Monologues.” 
The event team is collecting anony­mous submissions at s.someskin@ gmail.com and at Dr. Lucero’s office in 232 Geddes Hall until Jan. 31, 2012. 
The collected submissions can be up to 500 words. The donated stories will become the production’s property and may be reproduced through perfor­mance, publication or other media. 
“Show Some Skin: The Race Mono­logues” will take place in March of 2012. Auditions for story readers (performers) will be held in early Feb­ruary. Those interested in audition­ing can email the team at racemono­logue@gmail.com 
Whatever you think, The Race Monologues team wants to hear from you. 
“You” not only implies the minority, but also the majority. Participation from the majority cannot be foregone. What’s your story? Show us some of your skin, no matter what color it is. 
Edithstein Cho can be reached at echo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I dream of wayward gulls and all landless lovers, rare moments of winter sun, peace, privacy, for everyone.” 
William Claire American poet and essayist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I quit therapy because my analyst was trying to help me behind my back.” 
Richard Lewis American comedian 


Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Thou shall not judge 
It’s funny. There are many stereotypes at Notre Dame about the different majors available in each of the university’s col­leges. 
Engineering and Architecture are prob-Dee Tian ably the most intense. Science is pretty hard, Confessions too. Business students of a Christian have it good. Arts and Party Girl Letters is a breeze. 
In the business school, there is this air of superiority with regards to Arts and Letters. It seems stu­dents think, “We are practical, we learn things that we will use in the real world, we are all going to get respectable paying jobs. What on earth are you going to do with a history or classics major?” 
I remember sitting in an upper level philosophy class when my professor made a remark about how he was embarrassed that his alma mater had a business school. He jokingly said, “There aren’t any business students in this class, right?” It then hit me that many departments within Arts and Letters must reciprocate the feeling of superiority toward business majors. 
They probably thought they were the intellectuals, searching for the answers to the deeper questions in life. Each side judged the other, thinking themselves better. 
How many times a day do we see this? We find a similar situation between people who drink and people who do not. Freshman year, we learned that in col­lege, people are supposedly judged for not drinking; there would be plenty of peer pressure to party. 
Although this may be somewhat true, somehow, I’ve found the opposite. In my personal experiences, it seems that stu­dents who drink don’t really care if others choose to not. However, some students 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Flat tax just won’t work 
Nearly every week I read articles in The Observer with columnists claiming a flat 
tax is the answer, and nearly every week I shake my head with disdain. 
Here’s why: a flat tax won’t solve any problems (and isn’t even remotely realistic). 
Bogus reasoning is constantly used in defense of this issue, so I’m here to set the 
record straight. 

First bad argument: “A flat tax will increase simplicity and efficiency of collection.” 
The common justification is that this will ensure that the half of Americans who do 
not pay taxes will be forced to do so. Trust me, if that half wasn’t paying taxes before, 
they sure aren’t going to under a flat tax. Most who aren’t paying taxes are doing so 
illegally. So under a flat-tax they’ll finally pay up? I don’t think so. 
Second: “A flat tax will stop the rich from cheating the system and start paying 
what they owe.” If you think the rich aren’t paying enough taxes now, then wait and 
see how much they’ll pay under a flat tax. Even with the rich using every possible tax 
break in the book, their effective tax rate could only get as low as possibly 15 to 17 
percent. So a flat tax is the answer so the rich will pay less? That just doesn’t make 
any sense. 

Third:  “A flat-tax system will solve the financial crisis.” Really? Why, because then 
more people would understand it? A flat tax would cause the tax revenue in the U.S. 
to plummet to a near all-time low. Plus, every proposal so far completely disregards 
the amount of tax revenue lost that would have gone towards social security and 
medicare. You think we’re in a fix now? Imagine social security and medicare failing, 
then come talk to me. 

So here’s the answer: fix the spending side of taxes, not the collecting. Politicians 
are what got us into this mess in the first place, so they should be the ones to get us 
out. If they weren’t so caught up in getting re-elected, maybe we would actually see 
some economic progress in the country. Besides, are you really going to listen to Her­
man Cain? 
Chris Martin 
grad student off campus Dec. 4 
who do not drink judge those who do. I’m proud of being able to drink as much as some guys when I’m out on the weekends. But when I go to church or work with community service organizations, I’m ashamed and would rather not admit to it. 
While I may feel a bit squeamish when my less religious friends roll their eyes when I turn on KLove (my favorite Chris­tian radio station), I also feel squeamish when my pastor asks to be friends on Facebook for fear of what he might see 
Why do we compartmentalize our lives? Why do we judge those who behave con­trary to ourselves? 
Now, I’m wary of relativism. While not everything is absolutely black and white, I believe that there are single right answers to many issues; there are correct and incorrect value systems. 
However, in the more minor things of life, what right do we have to judge each other? 
Jesus condemned hypocrisy and warned us that one day we would be held accountable for our actions and thoughts. Imagine your dad finding out about your darkest and deepest secrets — the times you broke the rules, the times you lied, your sexual life. Our Heavenly Father already knows all of this. Sometimes, I cringe at the thought. 
So, regardless of if you think manage­ment or sociology is a joke of a major, regardless of whether you choose to drink or not, just remember that we do not answer to each other. 
We answer to God. 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing major pursuing minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Conflicting conclusions 
Dear Ms. Koziel (“The cost of death,” Dec. 2), 
To say life in parole would serve as a more cost effective punishment to the death penalty is to ignore more than half of the framework on which our punitive system is founded. 
Punishment is not only looked at through its cost-effectiveness, but also its effectiveness as a deterrent, as necessary retribution for society and a possible process of rehabilitation for the perpetrator (though most would agree rehabilitation for those who have committed capital crimes is unattain­able). 
Whether the death penalty serves as a deterrent for future crimes is still dubious, there are several conflicting conclusions as to the punishment’s ef­fectiveness. 
The real question is whether or not capital punishment serves as proper retribution for those who have com­mitted the most heinous crimes — and it is along these lines that most people diverge in opinion. 
Retribution depends on personal and state interpretation of the crime and the law. 
In the thirty-five states that prac­tice the death penalty, if the crime is defined by the state as an “aggravating circumstance,” the perpetrator will face the death penalty. 
For these heinous crimes, many people feel that the appropriate punishment is death regardless of cost. 
“Aggravating circumstances” vary from state to state. These often diver­gent and ambiguous understandings of aggravated offenses lead to disparate interpretations of the appropriate use of capital punishment, which indicate clear conflicts of procedural justice at the state level. 
Considering, then, the finality and severity of capital punishment, coupled with the right of citizens to equality un­der law, it must only be carried out in the fairest and most effective way possible. 
But one cannot oversimplify the argu­ment as an issue solely of cost effective­ness, especially when one considers the heinous crimes committed and the emotional toll that these devastations take on friends and family members of the victims. The divergence in opinion is derived from moral grounds, which is why this conflict has become so difficult to resolve. 
If we wish to address the question of capital punishment, we must not only do so from a practical standpoint, but from an ethical standpoint as well. 
Stephanie McKay 
sophomore Welsh Family Hall Dec. 2 
UWIRE 

Obama doesn’t seem to like being president 
President Barack Obama isn’t happy. 
The president seems to have lost his spark, as media have buzzed with specu­lation over the root of his gloomy demean­or between coverage of those vying for his job. 
Even his big-Anastasia Dawson gest cheerleader, MSNBC’s Chris The Oracle Matthews, who said he “felt this thrill going up my leg” when Obama delivered a speech during the primaries in 2008 and compared his meteoric rise to the New Testament, ac­cording to the Huffington Post, has sensed that the Obamas don’t seem settled into the White House. 
“Once having won the office, he seemed to think that that was the end of it in terms of his connection to the American people,” Matthews said, according to the Washington Times. “I think everybody feels an absence of communication from the time he’s been elected. And it’s not about being left-wing enough or too left. That’s not his problem. It’s connection … I don’t sense the gratitude, the happiness level, the thrill of being president.” 
Matthews isn’t the only one to notice the change of heart from the man who, in 2010, was named “one of the best presidents ever” by presidential scholars. According to a Wednesday Gallup poll, he has now surpassed Lyndon B. Johnson as the president seeking re-election with the lowest approval rating. 
Perhaps his poor spirits can be attrib­uted to his looming to-do list. 
Obama may be hoping to bring troops back from Iraq and Afghanistan in time for Christmas. However, involvement in Libya, which Obama said in March would take “days, not weeks,” according to ABC News, is still high. A year after his inauguration, the president pledged to his supporters that he would close Guantana­mo Bay. Yet the infamous prison remains open, and Obama conceded that he hasn’t “been able to make the case right now,” according to the Washington Post. 
Though war has often been used as a means to boost the economy, the U.S. un­employment rate remains at nine percent, and according to The Associated Press, more than 46 million Americans now live in poverty, the highest numbers recorded since the Census Bureau began tracking poverty levels in 1959. 
Even so, government spending is at historically high levels with respect to the nation’s declining GDP. Other nations with such high levels of spending, such as Greece, Ireland, Iceland, Portugal and Spain, are all on the verge of collapse, which certainly has done nothing for Obama’s nerves. 
America has managed to keep its AAA credit rating with Fitch even after losing it with Standard & Poor’s, but according to Fox News, Fitch has downgraded its outlook to negative, a move undoubtedly associated with the failure of the congres­sional supercommittee to cut $1.2 trillion in government spending by the end of the year. A drop in the national credit rating will drive up interest rates across the board and make it that much harder for businesses to borrow for capital expenses, which, in turn, affects hiring. 
Such news is enough to make anyone, even the president, want to live in a tent in Zuccotti Park. And though Obama has pledged to look out for the interests of the omnipresent Occupy Movement’s 99 per­cent, the polls speak for themselves. 
This article originally ran in the Dec. 1 edition of The Oracle, the newspaper serv­ing the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, December 5, 2011 

Scene Staff Report 

Christmas has taken hold of Notre Dame, and the evidence is all around us. There’s no snow, but there are more than enough red and green lights to make up for it. From South Dining Hall to dorm rooms, stu­dents, faculty and staff have stepped up and decked out campus to spread holiday cheer. Check out some of the best decorations from around campus. 


MACKENZIE SAIN/Observer Photo 
Jordan Hall of Science has caught the Christmas bug. Its tree, right, which sits in the main hallway, is topped by a beautiful angel, top left, and decorated with gorgeous ornaments. Although Jordan sits on the far edge of campus, it’s worth the trek to check out the decorations. 
MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL/Observer Photo 
Left, the Christmas tree decorates the room of juniors Kristen Kelly and Betsy Mastropieri. Right, a stocking hangs outside their door. Their room may be small, but that didn’t stop these two girls from getting a full-size Christmas tree to celebrate the holiday season. 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

ONYINYECHKWU IGBOANUGO/Observer Photo 

Clockwise from the top: a gingerbread house and poinsettia plant dot the inside of South Dining Hall; a wreath garnishes the east exit; presents and garlands decorate the deli station; a present sits on the bench next to the waffle irons; a holiday village adorns the front window; the crèche graces the east exit; a display of presents embellishes an upper ledge. The workers at South Dining Hall have outdone themselves this year. From the traditional crèche above the east exit to a holiday village, even Scrooge would leave full of Christmas cheer. 



Photo courtesy of Rachel Sehgal MACKENZIE SAIN/Observer Photo 
From its front hall to its dorm rooms, left, Lewis Hall embodies the fall holiday mood. Its tree, right, lights up the front hallway. The dorm celebrates all the major holidays of the season. 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 5, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Injecting some fun into NBA playoffs 
If you’ve been following sports over the past week — and let’s be honest, if you’re reading this column, you probably have been — you’ve noticed a pecu­liar trend. The big story hasn’t been the mess atop the BCS standings, nor has it been the Packers’ ut­ter domina­tion of every other team in the NFL. 
No, sportswriters around the country have been fixated on one thing, and one thing only: 
The NBA is back. And frankly, I don’t care. It’s not that I don’t enjoy the 
NBA at all. The NBA solve anything. 

Bill Simmons of ESPN.com, however, has a simple solu­tion: the “Entertaining as Hell (EAH)” tournament. Simmons would reserve two playoff spots each year for the tour­nament’s top two teams (he would also get rid of confer­ence-based playoffs). 
How would this tournament work? The top 12 teams in the league would get automatic qualifiers to the playoffs and get two weeks of rest instead of the final two weeks of the regular season. The other teams in the league would play in the EAH tournament 
— a simple double-elimination tournament in which any team, even the cellar-dwelling Cavaliers, could get hot and pull off a No. 8 seed despite losing 75 percent of their games. Every team would have hope for the playoffs, and no 
team would have an excuse 

playoffs give The problem, of course, to trade away 
us some of is that professional key players the most to clear cap 
basketball is rarely 
drama-filled, space because 
at its best. 
pressure-they would 
There are too many 
packed still have a 
regular-season games. 
moments of shot at the 
There are too 
the year. I playoffs. love watch-many teams. In addition ing a great There are too many to shortening Christmas overpaid, under-the too-long Day matchup talented players. regular 
between the There are not enough season, that 
Heat and the proposal adds 
meaningful games. 
Celtics on more mean-
There are not enough 
national tele-ingful games, 
marquee matchups. 
vision. When gives viewers 
professional basketball is at its best, with two immensely talented teams battling for a full game in front of a jam-packed arena, it is among the most thrilling experiences in sports. 
The problem, of course, is that professional basketball is rarely at its best. 
There are too many regular-season games. 
There are too many teams. 
There are too many overpaid, under-talented players. 
There are not enough mean­ingful games. 
There are not enough mar­quee matchups. 
There are not enough creative ideas to solve these problems. 
Well, that last part isn’t true. There are plenty of creative, outside-the-box ideas to re-inject life into the NBA. For example, we all know that the last third of the season is filled with teams “tanking” to im­prove their draft position. The NBA tried to fix the situation by instituting a lottery weighted by how poorly a team does. It didn’t more reasons 
to turn on a late-season NBA contest and gives the NBA the benefit of having “Cinderella” teams that capture the public’s imagina­tion. 
Sure, Simmons’ idea is prob­ably impossible to implement given television contracts, and if anything like it were to be implemented, it certainly wouldn’t be called the “Enter­taining as Hell” tournament. But it does show that outside-the-box thinking is possible. There are creative ways to draw more fans, cut down on meaningless games and give people more reasons to watch those games. 
It’s just too bad none of those ideas are coming from inside the NBA. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 
Gronkowski leads Pats over Colts 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Rob Gronkowski scored three more touchdowns. Chances are the New England Patriots are thinking more about the three touchdowns they al­lowed in the fourth quarter. 
Against the winless Colts, no less. 
The Patriots needed Deion Branch to recover an onside kick in the final minute to hold off Indianapolis 31-24 on Sunday. Trailing 31-3, the Colts rallied with a touch­down run by Donald Brown and two scoring passes from Dan Orlovsky to Pierre Gar­con, the last with 36 seconds to go. 
Tom Brady took a knee on the final play to complete the victory. 
“We played good for 45 minutes and then didn’t do anything offensively,” Brady said. “So we’ll hear about that.” 
The Patriots (9-3) have won four straight and are tied for the AFC’s best record. India­napolis (0-12) must beat Bal­timore, Tennessee, Houston or Jacksonville to avoid be­coming the second NFL team to go 0-16. 
“People can say what they want to say about not playing hard, but I think that (come­back) pretty much shut that up right there,” Colts tight end Jacob Tamme said. 
With two touchdowns passing, both to Gronkowski, Brady overtook Johnny Uni­tas and tied Warren Moon for sixth place in NFL history with 291 during the regular season. Brady was 29 of 38 for 293 yards. 
Gronkowski has 13 touch­down catches, tying San Di­ego’s Antonio Gates in 2004 and San Francisco’s Vernon Davis in 2009 for most by a tight end in a regular season. He originally was given an­other touchdown catch, but that was changed to a lateral on which he ran 2 yards for the 31-3 lead. 
Thinking he had set the re­cord, Gronkowski held onto the ball as a souvenir instead of spiking it as he usually does. He even accepted con­gratulations from his team­mates. 
“I wasn’t thinking about whether it was a pass or a lateral,” Gronkowski said. “I’ll take the rushing touch­down. It’s the first of my whole career.” 
The Patriots entered the game as three-touchdown fa­vorites with the teams, from different divisions, meeting for the ninth straight season. 
“Guys played well and did some things well,” Colts coach Jim Caldwell said, “but, still, we’re measured by wins.” 
Caldwell gave Orlovsky his first start of the season in place of the ineffective Curtis Painter. Orlovsky, a member of the winless Detroit Lions team in 2008, completed 30 of 37 for 353 yards, two touchdowns and one interception. 
“We felt confident going into the game that if we stayed pa­tient we could move the ball,” Orlovsky said. “We fell short. I wish we had more time on the clock.” 
Watching from the sideline was Peyton Manning, whose preseason neck surgery forced Caldwell to go with backups. 
“We almost had a big win to­day. It would have been huge for us,” Manning said. 
The Colts tied the score 3-3 on Adam Vinatieri’s 31-yard field goal early in the sec­ond quarter. And the Patriots punted on their next series. 
Then Brady got the offense rolling as New England scored touchdowns on its next four possessions, taking a 31-3 lead late in the third quarter. Wes Welker caught 11 passes for 114 yards, increasing his NFL-leading total to 93 recep­tions. 
The Colts had a new defen­sive coordinator, linebackers coach Mike Murphy, after Lar­ry Coyer was fired Tuesday. 
The Patriots rarely lose in December, no matter their op­ponent. They’re 38-5 in that month starting in 2001, tops in the NFL. And they’re 19-1 at home in December, with wins in their last 18 games, since Gillette Stadium opened in De­cember 2002. 
Trailing 3-0, Orlovsky led a 19-play drive lasting 10:19. The Colts had first-and-goal at the 1, but a run for no gain, an incompletion, a false-start penalty and a sack forced them to settle for Vinatieri’s field goal. 

New England took com­mand by scoring twice in the last three minutes of the first half on Brady’s 11-yard pass to Gronkowski and BenJarvus Green-Ellis’ 1-yard run for a 17-3 lead. 
The Patriots got the ball to start the third quarter and Brady passed on each of the seven plays, completing all of them to drive 77 yards, end­ing with a 21-yard touchdown to Gronkowski. After a fumble recovery, Gronkowski scored again when he went in motion, took a toss from Brady and ran untouched into the right side of the end zone. 
“He is a tough kid and he knows how to run the routes,” Colts defensive back Jerraud Powers said. “It also helps when you have one of the greatest quarterbacks.” 
Gronkowski finished with five catches for 64 yards af­ter entering the game tied for sixth in the NFL with 60 re­ceptions. 
The Colts scored in the fourth quarter on Donald Brown’s 5-yard run and Or­lovsky’s passes of 33 and 12 yards to Garcon. 
“If we don’t play four quar­ters, we’re not going to end up in the situation we want to be in,” Welker said. 
The Patriots want to win the Super Bowl. The Colts have a more modest goal — winning just one game. 
“I thought Dan was pa­tient,” Manning said. “I really thought he did a good job. He gave us a chance there at the end.” 
And Orlovsky gave Patriots coach Bill Belichick something to harp on when he meets with his players. 
“We’ve obviously got to do a better job of finishing the game,” Belichick said. “That was disappointing, but we’ll work on that.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

#QUINNING Congratulations Meghan on your I’ve decided what I’m doing for Today we were driving on the 
FOUND PERSONAL 
big meet this weekend!  You did all of my friends for Christmas: freeway and my brother was phenomenally! writing each of them Hogwarts hanging his hand out of the 

Nicole McMillan is the best acceptance letters. MLIA. window. Suddenly, some random Change purse with cash and no ID UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t roommate ever!  Love, Love, motorcyclist drove up really close found on Twyckenham Friday. go it alone. Notre Dame has many Nicole Meghan Today I read this: “Dear J.K. and gave him a high-five. If you lost the purse, please resources in place to assist you. Rowling, Writing a book for Easily made my day. contact Katie Kohler at: If you or someone you love needs It was a wonderful surprise Today I went to put on my favorite muggles describing the magical MLIA kathleen.e.kohler@gmail.com confidential support or assistance, to come home to the best pair of boots and I found a tiny world in explicit detail is a violation 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 and absurdly large amount of plastic dinosaur in the toe. I’m not of Section 13 Part C of the Today I asked my friend ‘What’s or or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Christmas decorations ever, sure how it got there, but it made International Warlock Convention. better, a ninja or a pirate?’ and she information, visit ND’s website at: courtesy of Nicole Gantz,  Thanks my day. We expect you to attend a hearing said ‘Their child’. My mind was 610-952-5148 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu roomie!  Love, MLIA. on February 28. Sincerely, Ministry blown. MLIA. Nicole of Magic.” Made my day. MLIA. 
Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary’s takes down Alma to earn first conference win 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
With a convincing 72-50 victory over Alma, the Belles snapped a three-game losing streak and returned to a .500 record in conference play. 
The Belles combined a strong offense with an improved de­fensive effort to garner their first MIAA win this season, Saint Mary’s coach Jenn Hen­ley said. 
“I was very pleased with to­day’s game. I thought our de­fense was much improved,” she said. “I think offensively we worked the ball a little bit better than what we had in the past and we took better shots within our sets.” 
The Belles (3-5, 1-1 MIAA) took control of the game early with a 25-4 run three minutes into the first half, but the Scots (1-5, 1-1) countered with a 9-1 run of their own, cutting the Belles’ lead to eight going into halftime. According to Henley, the Belles learned from this lapse in defense to pick up the intensity in the second half. 
“[The Scots’ 9-1 run] really gave them a lot of momentum heading into halftime,” Henley said. “We talked about that a lot at halftime. We are such an offensive-minded team that we need to realize that even when we score, we have to get stops. We can’t start trading baskets, and I think we did a much bet­ter job of that in the second half.” 
Coming out of halftime, the Belles proved they could play both offense and defense.  Only eight minutes into the second half, the Belles had gained a 25-point lead, limiting the Scots to eight points in that stretch. With points coming from five different Belles play­ers after the 12-minute mark, the Belles’ lead never dropped below 17 points. 
Yet it was Saint Mary’s de­fense that spurred its offense, leading to 37 points off turn­overs and contributing 44 re­bounds that helped propel the team to victory. Senior guards Patsy Mahoney and Maggie Ronan also added 19 points and 15 points, respectively, for the Belles. 
Overall, Henley said she was extremely satisfied with her and they had a really nice team’s play Saturday. chemistry out on the floor to­
“They all played well,” Hen-night.” ley said Saturday. “They all The Belles look to continue worked so hard in practice, Saturday’s success Wednesday when they travel to play Hope in another MIAA matchup. 

Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Dalrymple excels, but Belles fall to ninth in 10-team field 
By VICKY JACOBSEN finish in the 100-yard breast-coach Mark Benishek said. at 2:33.16, and junior Kristyn ond and third with 661 and 466 Sports Writer stroke, clocking in at 1:07.04. Dalrymple was not the only Gerbeth took 16th in the 100-points, respectively. The Belles She also placed eighth in the one who earned points for Saint yard fly at 1:05.03. did outscore Alma, an MIAA Senior captain Audrey Dal-200-yard breaststroke with a Mary’s (1-3, 0-2 MIAA) over the Saint Mary’s finished ninth opponent, who went home with 
rymple led the way for the time of 2:25.50 and 15th in the weekend. Senior captains Katie in the 10-team field after rack-just 25 points. 
Belles again, as they closed out 200-yard individual medley Donovan and Megan Price and ing up 47 points (the top 16 “I think we had a good show-
the first half of the season with (IM) with a time of 2:18.16. sophomore Sarah Thompson finishers in each event score ing. It was a little bit better 
a ninth-place individual finish “[Dalrymple] had a great teamed up with Dalrymple for points for their school). Divi-than what I was expecting, 
at the Calvin Winter Invitation-meet; she just missed the the 800-yard freestyle relay, as sion III member Grand Valley so that’s always good to see,” 
al on Saturday. NCAA qualifying time in the the squad finished 16th overall State led the competition with Benishek said. “I think we’re Dalrymple claimed Saint [200-yard] breaststroke, and with at time of 2:18.16. Sopho-980 points, while Indianapolis definitely going to make some 
Mary’s highest finish of the she had a solid swim in her more Genevieve Spittler fin-and Northern Michigan, both changes with our spring train-
meet with a seventh-place [200-yard] IM as well,” Belles ished 16th in the 200-yard fly Division II programs, took sec-ing, try to build a little bit more strength and help with some of the cardio level so we can stretch for a little bit longer and start shooting for the end of the season here.” The Winter Invitational marked the Belles’ last meet before heading home for win­ter break. “I know we’re going to be having the Christmas break coming up, which is always a little bit of a challenge when releasing the team and letting them go home for a while,” Benishek said. “It’s on them to keep their training while they’re at home before they report back and we begin our training at the beginning of January.” Benishek said he’s been pleasantly surprised by his squad’s performance so far this season. “We’re definitely ahead of where we were last year train­ing-wise and conditioning-wise in all facets and in all individuals, so that’s good to see on their part and a great thing to have,” Benishek said. “The effort’s where it needs to be, and we’re starting to see a stronger showing and a com­petitive season this year.” The Belles will return to campus in time for their train­ing trip to Arizona from Dec. 28 to Jan. 5, before resuming MIAA competition when they visit Olivet at 6 p.m. on Jan. 13. 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, December 5, 2011 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Improved Irish place third behind Michigan, Iowa 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
For most seasons, Irish coach Tim Welsh wants to see evidence of his teams’ times improving by the time the calendar turns to December. After this weekend’s Hawkeye Invitational at the Uni­versity of Iowa, Welsh has al­ready seen that and then some. 
In a seven-team field, the Irish placed third behind just No. 1 Michigan and host-team Iowa. 
“This is faster than I’ve ever had a team at Christmas-time,” Welsh said. “We are looking for improvement. That’s what the fall season is all about.” 
Coaching a young team that boasts 16 freshmen, Welsh said he has been pleased to see his charges quickly acclimating to the collegiate level of competi­tion. 
“If you look at our fastest times going in and coming back from this meet, you see a huge improvement,” Welsh said. “We had a bunch of athletes who put up lifetime bests the last couple of days.” 
As they have been all season, the Irish were led by sophomore swimmer Frank Dyer. After an average Friday meet during which he posted NCAA B-Cut times in the 50-meter freestyle and the 500-meter freestyle, placing eighth and third respec­tively, Dyer exploded on Satur­day.  The sophomore shattered the meet, school and pool re­cords in the 200-meter freestyle. His time of 1:35.58 shaved just under two-tenths of a second off the previous Irish record set by John Lytle in 2009. 
“Dyer is obviously our per­formance leader,” Welsh said. “What he’s been able to do at this level is quite incredible. Just like the rest of our team, he’s putting up better numbers at Christmas­time than he ever has before.” 
Other top performances for the Irish were turned in by ju­nior Christopher Johnson (sec­ond place in the 100-meter breaststroke) and the third-place 200-meter freestyle relay team of Dyer, Johnson and ju­niors Kevin Overholt and John McGinley. 
At one of the fastest meets of the year, the Irish turned in an impressive showing that put them just behind two of the top teams in the country. The invi­tational marked the third time that Notre Dame raced against Michigan during the fall season. 
Despite failing to knock off the Wolverines, Welsh said he is confident the experience against the nation’s best will benefit his young squad. 
“Michigan is ranked first in the country for a reason,” Welsh said. “We’ve already raced them three times, and looking at their times, there’s no question that they’re faster. But that’s the level at which we want to compete. That’s what we want to do.” 
The Hawkeye Invitational also marked the last collegiate ac­tion the Irish will experience in 2011, as the team will rest and regroup before heading to Costa Rica for the Copa Coqui in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Jan. 6. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Reaney breaks school record as Notre Dame finishes fourth 
By CORY BERNARD victory in the 400-meter indi-Ryan and junior diver Jenny Chi-format, Barnes said the Irish did with the Warriors on Jan. 4. Sports Writer vidual medley final. Her time of ang also stood out for the Irish. not focus as much on the results Barnes said he made sure his 
4:12.19 was just .12 seconds off Ryan turned in a score of 53.60 as they did on self-improvement. team knew its opportunities to 
After completing their last the program best, held by Car-in the 100-meter back prelims to “We didn’t approach it as from improve this year would be lim­competition of 2011, the Irish roll. break the meet record before fin-an individual point of view,” he ited in number. head into winter break with a “I’m just very happy for Emma,” ishing second in the 100-meter said. “Our team was pretty cen-“We are still in season and we solid 3-3 start and a potential su-Irish coach Brian Barnes said. back finals. Chiang missed out tered on what’s going on on our have a good team,” Barnes said. perstar in the making. “We want everyone on our team on first place in the three-meter team. We didn’t approach the “We are off to a great start and 
Despite finishing fourth out of to get what they deserve, and dive by less than eight points, meet from a wins and loses point we’re going to make whatever we five teams at the Ohio State Invi-she got what she deserved. She finishing second with a score of of view, but rather a, ‘How well make. We’re setting the table for tational in Columbus, Ohio, over has been working hard and she 310.35. are we doing, how are we im-a good season, and I made sure the weekend, the Irish saw stand-has been incredibly consistent. With a roster far smaller than proving and competing’ view?” everyone realizes the limited out freshman swimmer Emma Emma is very diligent with her the other four competitors — The final results were a little number of opportunities we have Reaney break a school record. preparation, and it’s good that Ohio State, Purdue, Michigan misguiding because there was to get better. We have to make Reaney took first in the 200-me-those characteristics are in her. State and Penn State — Notre no cap on the number of entrees the most of every opportunity ter individual medley final Fri-We learned a lot about Emma Dame could not enter enough and we were the smallest team moving forward to build on our day by clocking in at 1:57.67, this weekend. She’s a first semes-athletes in every event to score there.” early success. Every dive, every shattering 2007 graduate Katie ter freshman at Notre Dame and, enough points to win the invita-Though still in season, Notre stroke — make it count.” Carroll’s program record. like our entire team, we all need tional. Dame now takes a month off 
Reaney nearly broke another to get better.” Knowing beforehand that the from competition before travel-Contact Cory Bernard at Irish record Saturday with her Sophomore swimmer Kelly meet was to be in championship ling to Hawaii for a dual meet cbernard@nd.edu 
and that’s where we’ve got to 
Brey 
get better,” he said. “If you get 

enough loose balls, you’re going continued from page 16 to have a chance to win it. But 
when you’re hoping it’s coming of injuries and inexperience, to you, then it’s just not tough he is looking for small victories enough. Maryland was tougher from his team. than us with loose balls, and 
“For us, I was very interested they really deserved to win the to see what we’d be like for 40 game.” minutes, and we were compet-The Irish return to the Pur­ing and trying and doing our cell Pavilion for a two-game thing,” he said. “I told them, home stand. They will take the ‘We are in a mode of very little court Friday against Maine be-steps with this team. I just want fore facing Dartmouth on Sun-to come back and have a really day, both at 7:30 p.m. good practice on Tuesday, a re-“We have a lot of things to ally good practice on Wednes-work on as we get back home day. We need to have two good for two games,” Brey said. “For days and let’s see how we play us, for this group, it’s good for on Thursday. That’s all we can us to come back and play at bite off right now.” home twice. That home court 
The Irish shot 52 percent has always been a good kind from the floor in the second of medicine for us when we go half, but Brey said in the end, back there.” the difference was hustle. 
“But I think the big thing was Contact Eric Prister at that we didn’t get loose balls, eprister@nd.edu 



Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
three more because of mistakes jersey and I can’t remember the to the previous night’s defeat. Irish did get chances, they had 
Huskies 

in front of him,” Jackson said. “I last time we gave up nine goals “It’s always tougher on the trouble getting the puck past 
continued from page 16 
puck, turning pucks over,” Jackson said. “They caused us to give up pucks in our own end, especially. But through the neutral zone, that was the first turnover that led to the first goal, not being strong with the puck … We were soft tonight. We played soft.” 
When freshman defenseman Dan Cornell scored the first goal of his career from near the blueline to put Northeastern up 3-0 on just three shots, Johnson was removed from the game for sophomore Steven Summer-hays. 
“The way the team was play­ing in front of [Johnson], it’s better to pull him then than have him give up four more [or] 
Bowl 
continued from page 16 
“They’re a very good defense. We’ve just got to come prepared,” Floyd said. “Florida State … is probably the best defense we’ll play this year. They’re very athletic and fast and big, too.” 
Despite watching sophomore quarterback Andrew Hendrix lead the Irish offense in the second half of its loss to Stanford on Nov. 26, Kelly named sophomore quar­terback Tommy Rees the starting quarterback against the Semi­noles. 
“Tommy Rees is our starter,” Kelly said. “He’ll start the bowl game, and Andrew will get an op-have a lot of confidence in him and his character. And I know he’ll be back.” 
Summerhays did not fare much better though, allowing four goals on 12 shots before making way for fellow sopho­more Joe Rogers to see his first action of the season in the game’s final 15:24. 
The Irish did not score their first goal of the game until they were down 6-0 with 12 seconds left in the second period, when sophomore center T.J. Tynan’s powerplay slapshot beat Hus­kies junior goaltender Chris Rawlings. Junior left wing Nick Larson added a third period goal when he deflected a shot from sophomore defenseman Kevin Lind, but both goals ul­timately proved to matter little. 
“That was a disgrace to the 
portunity to play as well, but Tom­my’s our starter.” 
Notre Dame’s season-opening starting quarterback, senior Dayne Crist, may or may not be with the team in Orlando. Crist sought and received a release to explore transfer to other schools under the NCAA’s one-time excep­tion for graduate students. Players who have graduated with eligibili­ty remaining may transfer to other schools without losing eligibility. 
“I was not surprised,” Kelly said. “Dayne’s been professional all year. He’s worked hard, but he knew he wanted to continue to play, and he was going to get that opportunity probably somewhere else. 
“We want to do everything to help Dayne make sure he gets that like that,” senior co-captain and defenseman Sean Lorenz said. “We’ve got to be better. Plain and simple.” 
The Irish came out with a much stronger physical ef­fort Saturday night and broke through early in the second pe­riod with the game’s first goal by junior center Riley Sheahan. The Huskies managed to tie the game when Pimm scored his third goal of the series at the 13:02 mark of the second. Huskies junior left wing Steve Quailer tallied his fifth goal of the season 5:19 into the third period on the powerplay, and that would be all Northeastern would need to hold on to a 2-1 victory. 
Despite the result, Jackson was pleased with the effort from the Irish on Saturday compared second night of a series, but we had to play with more grit, there’s no question about that, and I thought we did a better job for the most part,” Jackson said. “And the difference in the game was four-on-four and special teams, bottom line.” 
Johnson was inserted back into the lineup for Saturday’s contest and performed well, tal­lying 13 saves and yielding just two goals against Northeastern. 
“I knew he’d come back,” Jack­son said of Johnson. “That’s the kind of kid he is. He is our guy. He’s the guy that I have all the confidence in. He had a couple tough games, but he responded and I expected him to.” 
Despite strong goaltending and defensive play, the Irish had difficulty getting quality scor­ing opportunities. When the Rawlings, who finished Satur­day with 22 saves. 
Despite scuffling to a three-game losing streak, the Sheah­an said there is plenty of confi­dence in the locker room. 
“We can’t panic too much. We’re on a little bit of a losing streak, but we’ve got to come back and practice hard and stay positive and enthusiastic,” Sheahan said. “We’re a close-knit team, and I don’t think we should let this affect us, and I don’t think we’re going to. We just have to stay positive and stay together.” 
The Irish take the ice next Friday when they travel to Fer­ris State for a two-game series against the Bulldogs. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
opportunity.” 
Senior captain Harrison Smith said he wishes Crist well wherever he goes. 
“You’re never going to meet a better guy than Dayne,” Smith said. “I hope he’s successful wher­ever he ends up going.” 
While a four-loss season does not meet Notre Dame expecta­tions, Kelly said the team was ex­cited for its bowl game. 
“[It’s] a nice way to finish the season, to be part of the Champs Sports Bowl.” 
The Irish will face the Semi­noles on Dec. 29 at 5:30 p.m. in Or­lando’s Citrus Bowl Stadium. The game will be televised on ESPN. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, December 5, 2011 
nine on the men’s side. By quali-which only a small number of will not compete now until Jan-ready to do [throws], or jump, 
fying 25 female athletes and 35 Irish athletes will participate. uary,” Piane said. “This really or sprints or hurdle well. And 
Barber 
continued from page 16 
in terms of point scoring, that is for sure,” Piane said. 
For Barber, though, her suc­cess came despite first-race jit­ters. 
“I didn’t think I would be able to hurdle and long jump as well as I did,” Barber said. “It all came together at the right time. I was super nervous. For long jump I was okay, but for hurdles and the [400-meter] I was freak­ing out before the race.” 
Irish sophomore sprinter Ai­jah Urssery also captured mul­tiple wins on the women’s side by winning the 60-meter and 200-meter dashes. 
On the men’s side, freshman Christopher Giesting took the top spot in Notre Dame’s one­two-three finish in the 400-me­ter dash, in front of sophomore Patrick Feeney and junior Brendan Dougherty. Led by first-place finisher junior Jeff Macmillan, the Irish also swept the podium and took seven of the top eight positions in the 5,000-meter run. 
Overall, Notre Dame took first place in 20 of the day’s 33 events ¬¬. 11 on the women’s side and male athletes for the Big East championships, the Irish en­joyed a promising start to their season, Piane said. 
“Normally, we look to try to get 40 to 45 [qualifiers], and we ended up with 60,” Piane said. “So that’s a really good perfor­mance, a great start. It really is. 
“Just to put in into perspective … Both Marquette and DePaul combined had 17 [qualifiers]. We are in pretty good shape al­ready. There are other people that have qualified in the past that didn’t make it [on Friday], so we are going to get more qualifiers, there is no doubt.” 
The Irish achieved high fin­ishes across the board on Fri­day, due in part to their dedi­cation during practice, Barber said. 
“I think we were successful because of all the hard work we put in before,” she said. “Prac­tices are not easy at all, and everybody works hard at prac­tice and does what they are sup­posed to do, and that’s why it worked out.” 
The next event on Notre Dame’s schedule is the Grand Valley State University Holi­day Open in Allendale, Mich., on Dec. 16 and 17, an event in 


Novosel 
continued from page 16 
the paint, but made just one of 12 shots from behind the arc. 
“I thought Natalie was really ready to play when she came out and just took over offensively, and then she found [Devereaux] a couple times. I thought [De­vereaux] had a really good game too — no fouls, rebounded and scored … I thought those two pretty much carried us. I don’t think any of the other starters played well in the first half.” 
McGraw attributed the team’s 38 percent shooting to two days off from practice leading up to the matchup, as well as a will­ingness to “settle” for the three-ball. 
“I think settled is the perfect word,” she said. “I think we do that all the time. We always settle for the three. We are not shooting it well, we have not re­ally shot it well more than one game this year, and yet we con­tinue to settle for it. 
“You have to be willing to drive the ball. If you stay in the game, why should you change what you’re doing if you’re not coming out of the game for it.” 
Sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa powered Notre Dame’s improved play Sunday, scoring a career-high 20 points and reas­serting Notre Dame’s presence in the post. The Irish led the Bluejays (4-3) 30-3 at one point in the first half, holding Creigh­ton scoreless for the first eight minutes and 24 seconds of the game. 
“With players like Natalie and [junior guard] Skylar [Diggins] and even [Devereaux] being such a presence, they have to guard them,” Achonwa said. “So as soon as I touch the ball, it’s almost like a golden light telling me to go to the basket. It’s really easy.” 
Although Notre Dame com­mitted 15 turnovers, the squad forced 25, leading to 32 points off those turnovers while shoot­ing 55 percent for the game. 
“We talked about energy,” McGraw said Sunday. “We had a lot of good positive energy today. We were into the game more. I think we were really flat [Fri­day] and we needed to make up for it.” 
Notre Dame looks to extend its four-game win streak when it takes the court Wednesday at the Purcell Pavilion at 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
After opening their season with gives everyone an idea of where I think we found a lot out this a strong showing, the Irish face they are at in terms of condi-past Friday.” a long layoff before returning to tioning, whether it be what kind action. of shape they are in for run-Contact Joseph Monardo at 
“A vast majority of the team ning a distance race, or are they jmonardo@nd.edu 


Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



KELLy LyNCH and JOE MILLER 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

THE CLAMMY HANSHAKE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Monday, December 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Stop the chop 


By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
After two early-season losses dashed Notre Dame’s early-season BCS bowl hopes, the Irish found the next best thing at the end of their season, accepting an invita­tion Sunday to play Florida State in the Champs Sports Bowl in Or­lando, Fla., on Dec. 29. 
While it might not be a New Year’s Day game, Irish coach Brian Kelly said he was excited to see a matchup of two of college football’s most storied programs. 
“I think having two teams like Notre Dame and Florida State, who have overcome some adver­sity earlier in the year but have come back to be playing really good football, makes for a mar­quee matchup,” Kelly said. 
While Notre Dame (8-4) did not attain its BCS aspirations, Kelly said he is nevertheless proud of his squad. 
“Anytime you open up the sea­son you always have high expec­tations, and our football team had high expectations coming in. When some of the things don’t go your way, you look towards your senior leaders and how they’re go­ing to respond,” Kelly said. “We’re really proud of this football team and the way they responded after an 0-2 start.” 
The Seminoles (8-4, 5-3 ACC) won their first two games of the season before dropping three straight games against Oklahoma, Clemson and Wake Forest. Florida State rebounded to finish out the season 6-1, with the lone blemish coming in a 14-13 loss to Virginia on Nov. 19. Second-year coach Jimbo Fisher leads the Seminoles, who boast an athletic defense that gave opposing offenses fits all year long. 
“[They’re] obviously very talent­ed defensively,” Kelly said. “It’s go­ing to be a great challenge for us, but one that I know we’ll be pre­pared for. Last year going into the Sun Bowl against Miami we had a great defense to prepare for, and we think we’ve seen some really good teams this year. 
“When you play a bowl game, these are the kind of challenges that you want.” 
Senior receiver Michael Floyd said preparation will be the key to Notre Dame’s success against the Seminoles. 
see BOWL/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Peters, Achonwa lead Irish to pair of wins 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Heading into its first con­ference matchup of the sea­son against Marquette this Wednesday, Notre Dame need­ed a pair of weekend blowouts to iron out its early-season kinks. The No. 3 Irish blew past Pennsylvania 69-38 at the Purcell Pavilion on Friday be­fore handling Creighton 76-48 on the road Sunday. 
Despite the 31-point margin of victory, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said her squad looked flat as it took the court against the Quakers. 
“I was really disappointed in our lack of energy,” McGraw said Friday. “I’m really disap­pointed with the offensive ex­ecution and the scoring. We’re just not making shots.” 
Led by double-digit scoring from graduate student forward Devereaux Peters (16), senior guard Natalie Novosel (14) and sophomore guard Kalya Mc­Bride (10), Notre Dame (7-1) outscored Penn (4-2) 42-22 in 
see NOVOSEL/page 14 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 
ND qualifies 60 for Big East championships 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
It began with the bang of a gun and, when it was over, Notre Dame had begun its 2011-2012 season with a bang of its own. 
The Irish qualified 60 ath­letes for February’s Big East championships at Friday’s season opening meet, the Blue and Gold Invitational at the Loftus Sports Center. The in­vitational brought competitors from DePaul, Marquette, Beth­el College, Butler and Detroit to South Bend. 
In a day filled with victories for the Irish, freshman Kaila Barber captured first place in the 60-meter hurdles, the 400-meter dash and the long jump and was part of Notre Dame’s winning 4x400-meter relay team. 
Although she was competing in her first ever college meet, Barber’s impressive debut came as no surprise to Irish coach Joe Piane. 
“She is going to be a leader 
see BARBER/page 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Grant’s 20 points not enough for win in D.C. 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
Sophomore guards Eric At­kins and Jerian Grant, both from the Washington, D.C. area, combined for 36 points in their return to the nation’s capital. 
But their efforts were not enough for the Irish, who dropped their second straight road game Sunday to Maryland 78-71. 
Grant led the Irish with 20 points, to go along with four re­bounds and three assists, while Atkins chipped in 16 points in 40 minutes of play. 
“I think for them, that’s a lit­tle bit of what we’ve always en­visioned with these two,” Irish coach Mike Brey said to UND. com. “Coming back home, I was worried about them being dis­tracted, but they played their hearts out. They really wanted to win and they wanted to beat Maryland. But those guys re­ally competed, and that’s some­thing to build on for us too for down the road … Hopefully we can keep that going.” 
The Irish started out quickly, taking an 8-1 lead to start the game, but Maryland stormed back, taking a 26-25 lead with six minutes left in the first half, a lead it never relinquished. 
“Well, we’re disappointed that we couldn’t get the win,” Brey said. “For this group, af­ter [the loss at Gonzaga], get­ting pushed around out there, I felt we had something to build on. We battled and tried to give ourselves a chance to win. Some young guys made some big plays, and we made some boneheaded plays too, like young guys without experience will do.” 
The Irish took the court with­out junior forward Jack Cooley, who stayed in South Bend with a virus. Brey said that because 
see BREY/page 12 
HOCKEY 
Irish drop first games at home 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
For five games, smooth skat­ing graced the Compton Family Ice Arena as the Irish opened up their brand-new facility with a 5-0 home record. That took a drastic turn Friday and Saturday, as the No. 2 Irish dropped their first pair of con­tests in the Compton Arena to Northeastern this weekend. 
The Irish (10-5-3, 7-2-3-0 CCHA) got off to an embarrass­ing start against the Huskies (6-7-2, 3-7-2 Hockey East) on Friday, giving up three goals within 4:13 of the opening fa­ceoff on the way to a 9-2 blow­out loss. 
“I think this may be the worst loss that I’ve experienced since I’ve been here,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said after Friday’s game. “I wasn’t very fond of the effort, but I have to take re­sponsibility. I didn’t have these guys ready to play tonight.” 
The scoring opened just 30 seconds into the game after a Notre Dame turnover when Northeastern sophomore cen-

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Irish junior center Riley Sheahan watches the puck after scoring Notre Dame’s lone goal in its loss to Northeastern on Saturday. 
ter Braden Pimm received a son. The turnover was the first pass near the top of the crease sign of things to come. from sophomore right wing “We were mishandling the Cody Ferriero and beat Irish junior goaltender Mike John-see HUSKIES/page 13 





