
. 
COMMENTARY 

Anello, Ruffer, should a walk-on punt in 2011? 
Catch the snap. Take a step or two. Drop the ball toward your foot, and boot the living daylights out of it. 
So easy, a caveman could do it. Right? 
Especially when the caveman undergoes years of specialized training and spends hours a week doing those four things: Catch. Step. Drop. Boot. 
So why is it that junior punter Ben Turk can’t seem to figure it out come Saturdays? 
Of the 79 punters in the nation to have played in each of their team’s games, Turk ranks 74th in punting average. His whopping 36.23 yards per punt somehow outpaces USC’s punter, Kyle Negrete. But Notre Dame does not make it a habit to measure itself against USC. 
But what about measuring the Irish, specifically Turk, by the average Notre Dame student? 
Alumni Hall junior Dan Finan cameos as the Dawgs’ punter in interhall games. It really is only a cameo — Finan is very obviously a defensive lineman at heart, and when he steps back to punt, his linemen shoes go with him. 
Catch. Step. Drop. Boot. 
For kicks and giggles, Finan punted for 20 minutes Wednes­day night by moonlight on McGlinn Fields. With no train­ing, hardly any idea of what he was doing and trouble seeing the ball as it dropped to his foot, the former 8-year-old soccer goalie sent two punts 50 yards deep. Factoring in the 14 yards Finan would stand behind the line of scrimmage, he sent two punts equal to Turk’s 36-yard average. If they had been allowed to roll, as six of Turk’s 13 have, who knows how far they may have bounced. 
“My problem is consistency with the spiral,” Finan said of his two-for-20-minutes success rate. “I learned by messing around before practice in high school.” 
So Finan equals the caveman with no training. 
In that case, Stanford Hall junior Patrick Kramer equals the caveman who invented the wheel. 
When Irish coach Brian Kelly took over the program, the skinny kid who once boomed a 72-yard punt in high school knew he needed to step up his game. He stayed on campus over the summer specifically to work on four things: Catch. Step. Drop. Punt. 

On the first day of fall classes, Kramer got the call saying he was off the team. 
Wearing his Walk-On Player Union Nation (WOPU Nation) t-shirt, Kramer brushed the rust off his leg Tuesday afternoon on North Quad. His longest punt landed more than 46 yards past the proverbial line of scrimmage. His five longest averaged more than 43 yards. 
“I work in the dining hall now, and I do chemistry undergrad research,” Kramer said follow­ing what he considered to be a disappointed performance. “I’m not doing this everyday.” 
Fortunately for Stanford Hall, he does it on weekends when interhall season starts up. 
Catch. Step. Drop. Punt. 
Yet Kramer seems to think his appropriate place is wearing faded gold pants with Stanford, rather than a sparkling new pair with the Irish. 
“I’ve seen Ben [Turk] punt,” Kramer said. “He’s one of the top-20 punters in the nation, in practice.” 
Irish special teams coach Mike Elston said the same thing. 
“Ben demonstrates in practice that he can get it done,” Elston said. 
Even Turk knows as much. 
“In practice I’m hitting around 50 yards consistently,” he said. “It’s just turning that over to Saturdays now.” 
Until he does so, questions of walk-ons, or cavemen, will per­sist. Turk’s best performance of the season, averaging 41.5 yards on four punts against Michigan State, only would have placed him 40th in the nation for the season. After that game, Kelly was asked, point-blank, how he would feel about a walk-on. 
“Heck yeah,” Kelly said. “I would take anybody that had shown the ability to do that, punting the football or kicking … If you know somebody, you can reach me at 1-574…” 
Actually, Finan or Kramer, or anyone else, should contact di­rector of football personnel Tim McDonnell. 
Catch. Step. Drop. Punt. 
So easy, Ben Turk does it in practice. Is this the week he does it in a game? 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL RECRUITING 


Two prospects commit to Irish 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame added another play-maker to its recruiting class when South Carolina receiver Chris Brown committed to the Irish dur­ing his visit to campus during last weekend’s game against Michigan State. While Brown was not highly ranked by many recruiting ser­vices, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said Brown’s talent was evi­dent from the intense interest he had drawn. 
“It’s kind of strange,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN af­filiate Irish Sports Daily. “Here’s a guy who has 25 legitimate Division I offers, and more importantly he has offers from everybody in his surrounding area … but for some reason he’s just ranked a three-star by a lot of the services.” 
Frank said Brown’s playmaking ability was a good fit for the Irish. 
“He can really, really run,” Frank said. “He’s a very, very ex­plosive player who can bring some speed to the Notre Dame receiving corps. I personally think it’s a big pickup for Notre Dame. They need wide receivers.” 
Notre Dame also added its first member of the class of 2013 this past weekend, picking up a verbal commitment from Michigan offen­sive lineman Steve Elmer. 
“[Elmer] is probably the top of­fensive lineman in all of the Mid­west next year,” Frank said. “This is a very, very big pickup for Notre Dame. He’s a very big guy already 
— 300 pounds, and it’s not fat. It’s real size and real strength. He can also move very, very well.” 
Frank said Notre Dame’s focus on recruiting Elmer was indicative of the attitude Irish coach Brian Kelly had brought to the program in its second year. 
“Brian Kelly has made it very clear … that the only way [he and his staff] are going to get this thing turned around is to make sure that they have dominating play on both sides of the line,” Frank said. “He’s shown by offensive line recruiting and defensive line recruiting that he means business. He knows they have to have elite players on both sides of the ball. All you have to do is watch the Michigan State game last week to see evidence of that.” 
Ohio running back William Ma-hone also visited Notre Dame last weekend, and while he did not commit to the Irish, he is moving closer to a decision. 
“I think he really, really liked his visit, and really felt like he fit in well,” Frank said. “He loved the way Notre Dame ran the ball, which is important for any run­ning back. 
“I think he’s going to go visit Pitt this weekend … and then after that, we could end up having a de­cision, or he could check out Michi­gan State. I think he’s getting close to pulling the trigger.” 
Maryland cornerback Ronald Darby was on campus last week­end, and while Darby was com­mitted to the Irish, he had talked about taking official visits to other schools. After this weekend, how­ever, Darby may no longer take those visits, said Frank. 
“Notre Dame did a really good job of talking to him,” Frank said. “I think he understands that [se­nior cornerbacks] R.J. Blanton and Gary Gray will be gone next year, so there’s going to be a great op­portunity for anyone to come in and play … He just wants to go and have some fun on these trips. He has a good time going and seeing all these different places. I think Notre Dame would much rather him not go. As of earlier this week, it sounded like he was having a lot of second thoughts about those trips.” 
Freshman defensive end Aaron Lynch excelled in last week’s victo­ry over Michigan State, and Frank said the amount of playing time Lynch received sent a clear mes­sage to prospective recruits. 
“Brian Kelly isn’t just going to play the senior or the older guy. If [a player] can help the team, [he] will get on the field at Notre Dame,” Frank said. “That’s really important to these kids. None of these guys have ever really sat … They want to play right away and make an impact for their team.” 
While conference realignment continues to be a hot topic on the minds of college football fans, Frank said conference affiliation had little to do with recruiting. 
“I don’t think it’s really that big of a deal whether a team’s in a conference, not in a conference [or] which conference you’re in,” Frank said. “You can get to the NFL no matter what conference you’re in so long as you perform. It hasn’t made an impact that I’ve seen so far.” 
More important for Notre Dame’s recruiting is that it contin­ues to earn victories. 
“Whether [Notre Dame] is in a conference or not, I really don’t see much of a difference either way when it comes to recruiting,” Frank said. “Winning games is re­ally what matters for Notre Dame recruiting right now. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




Blanton Island 
Senior cornerback Robert Blanton has blossomed in his senior season to lead the Irish defense 
By CHRIS MASOUD But that natural comfort did dress announcer Mike Collins Assistant Managing Editor not translate to success on ev-recapped the play with a new 
ery down early in Blanton’s call: “Sir Robert Blanton.” 
They call it being on an is-career, and the corner found Collins, who describes the land. No man’s land. Responsi-himself shuffling in-and-out North Carolina native as a bilities range from deflecting of the starting rotation as “southern gentleman,” said a pass to jamming a receiver a sophomore after starting he has only used a handful of to shedding a block to making against USC, Syracuse and nicknames in his 30 years as an open-field tackle to inter-Hawaii as a freshman. the voice of Notre Dame Stadi­cepting the opposing quarter-Following a year of rotations um, reserving the distinction back. Candidates must pos-with former Irish cornerback for only certain occasions. sess a sub-4.5 40-yard dash Darrin Walls and senior Gary “So, I met Robert his sopho­time and a Gray in 2010, more year,” Collins said. “No m in im u m Blanton has matter what, he answers ev­36-inch ver-secured his erything with, ‘Yes, sir,’ — tical. position on the everything. So I went to him 
“We felt very strongly 
Still inter-perimeter in after last season and asked if 
about Robert Blanton 
ested in the his final year there was something special cornerback coming into the season, in pads for the he did on the field, would he position? that he would give Irish. mind if I called him ‘Sir Rob­
“You don’t us great play.” “The differ-ert Blanton.’ have any ence now is “Then I said I had to wait help out that he comes until something really spe-
Brian Kelly 
there. If you into this year cial happened, and then it did 
Irish coach 
don’t have with a lot of against MSU, and he is now Sir safety help experience, Robert Blanton.” over the a lot of con-Collins may call him “Sir”, top, there’s fidence,” de-and his teammates may call no help out there. It’s like an fensive backs coach Kerry him ‘RJ,’ but opposing offen­island. If you mess up, it’s go-Cooks said. “He’s got to be one sive coordinators simply call­ing to be a touchdown hands-of the guys back there in the ing him frustrating. The cor­down.” secondary that sets the tone. ner’s success, which includes 
Take it from senior corner-When he goes out there and he another late interception back Robert Blanton, Notre makes plays, he’s one of those against Michigan in the sec­Dame’s newest stalwart on a guys that’s just got a personal-ond game of the season, stems defense that held Michigan ity that energizes everybody.” from an intense preparation State to just 13 points Satur-While Blanton brings a re-process that begins in the film day in the first Irish victory of newed enthusiasm to the posi-room. the season. tion, Kelly met with the corner “RJ’s up here studying just 
Blanton played four quarters earlier in the year to discuss as much as the coaches are,” of shutdown defense, deflect-his verbal approach on the Cooks said. “It’s ridiculous. ing passes and recording six field. Sometimes I’ll tell him a play, tackles, including a key sack “I don’t allow talk on the and he’ll already know the of Spartans quarterback Kirk field, so we had our conver-play is happening just based Cousins in the third quarter. sations in the first couple of on the recognition, the splits. 
“We felt very strongly about practices last spring,” he said. A lot of that comes from study-Robert Blanton coming into “Since that time, he’s cur-ing and understanding what the season, that he would give tailed the talking. the offense is trying to do to 
ups. I’ll watch those and then ting him right, no matter who 
us great play,” Irish coach “It’s great that he’s got that him.” 
watch the receivers and evalu-it is. He’s constantly pressing Brian Kelly said. “I think he’s kind of personality. He just Blanton, who said the cor­ate each receiver on the team. and making sure the guys are exceeded everybody’s expec-doesn’t talk on the field. He nerback position is 90 percent But I don’t study too much. It’s locked in to the task at hand.” 
tations at this point. He’s been does it with his actions, which mental, said he focuses his fun to go in there and evalu-In addition to his responsi­a consistent performer for us.” is what I expect of him.” time in the film room study-ate your opponent, and it helps bilities on the field, Blanton Blanton’s natural comfort at Those actions included an ing opposing receivers and you on Saturday to be success-has taken on the role of men-the cornerback position comes electrifying 82-yard intercep-their tendencies rather than ful and see what your oppo-tor to sophomore cornerbacks from experience as much as tion return late in the fourth highlights of his past perfor­

athletic ability. A one-time safety, Blanton converted to the cornerback position as a sophomore in high school and never looked back.  quarter Saturday to dash any chance of a Spartan come­back and seal the Irish vic­tory. At the conclusion of the return, stadium public ad­ mances. “100 percent I watch my op­ponent,” he said. “Our coaches have a great breakdown for us. They gave us clips, cut­ nent’s doing. It’s like studying for an exam. Saturday is the exam.” While Blanton has aced the first three ex­ams, he remains  Lo Wood and Bennett Jackson. Cooks said he hopes the young corners will learn from Blanton’s “swagger” and re­lentless en-t h u s i a s m  
focused on the  t o w a r d  
task ahead, tak­ football.  
ing each game  “I  think  
and each snap one at a time. A constant test in practice, senior wide re­ceiver Michael  “He’s tall and long. He gives you a lot of difficulty. He presses you. You have to know how to get off the line.”  his pas­sion for the game and his will not to get beat, you want  
Floyd, said Blan­ton possesses a  Michael Floyd  toon,”   pass Cooks  
number of qual­ senior receiver  said.  “You  
ities that make  have to be  
him difficult to  right  on  
beat both down  the  edge.  
the field and in  You  got  
shor t-ya rdage  to have a  
situations.  short-term memory. When you  
“He’s tall and long,” Floyd  line-up, nobody is better than  
said. “He gives you a lot of dif­ you, nobody can beat you, but  
ficulty. He presses you. You  at the same time you respect  
have to know how to get off the  every wide receiver. The real- 
line. He gives us a lot of pres­ ity of it is if you’re overconfi­ 
sure and a lot of good tech- dent, then you are going to get  
nique that we can get help on.”  beat.”  
Defensive coordinator Bob  Blanton continues to toe the  
Diaco said the 6-foot-1 senior  edge between confidence and  
utilizes his length to his ad- reality, setting goals for him- 
vantage, allowing Blanton to  self in the short- and the long- 
compete for the football in the  term.  
air with larger receivers. Still,  “Right now — making sure  
he credits Blanton’s intangi­ we beat Pittsburgh,” he said.  
bles, character and leadership  “Long-run  — finishing  10­ 
qualities for his success on the  2, graduating and hopefully  
field.  playing at the next level.”  
“He’s  the  battery,”  Diaco  A legacy like that is sure to  
said. “He’s fun, he’s exciting.  make any mother proud.  
PAT COVENEY/The Observer  He’s just himself. And he leads  



Senior cornerback Robert Blanton sacks Michigan State quarterback Kirk Cousins on Sept. 17. by example. He doesn’t mind Contact Chris Masoud at Blanton recorded three tackles for loss and an interception in Notre Dame’s 31-13 win. snatching a guy up and get-cmasoud@nd.edu 
IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 

Tommy Rees didn’t put up The Notre Dame rushing at-COACHING quite as big numbers last week tack looked very effective in the After two five-turnover per-as he did against South Florida first half against Michigan State, formances, Notre Dame finally and Michigan, but unlike those seemingly continuing the suc-dropped its turnover count — two contests, the Irish came cess it had experienced against but only to three. The Irish will 


Head-to 
out on top. The key to that dif-South Florida and Michigan. In employ a balanced but simple 
ference was Rees’ limiting his  the second half, however, the  attack, which will be necessary  
own turnovers. The sophomore  Irish struggled on the ground.  against the complex schemes  
threw only one interception and  While little was said about the  Graham will throw at Rees. Ul­ 
gave up one fumble on a blind- adjustments  Michigan  State  timately, Notre Dame’s offensive  
side hit for which the blame  made in the second half in the  success  depends  on  whether  
falls squarely on the shoulders  wake of Notre Dame’s first win,  Rees can distribute the ball to  
of the offensive line. The biggest challenge  the  rest assured the Panthers have watched the game film from last  his playmakers without turn­overs.  Notre Dame Offense  
Irish will face this weekend is  week.  
the variety of schemes the Pan- The Irish offensive line has  EDGE: EVEN  
thers employ to confuse the quarterback. While Pittsburgh is based in a 3-4 formation,  the Panthers often will line up in a traditional 4-3 defense. The sec- been one of the best in recent memory for most of the season, but it has occasionally had dif­ficulty opening running lanes when the opposing defense has  WR WR  7 16 6 9  TJ Jones DaVaris Daniels Theo Riddick Robby Toma  So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  
ondary is similarly complex, as  overloaded the line of scrim- 
Pittsburgh coach Todd Graham  mage or has sent a run blitz.  
throws everything from a stock Cover 2 defense to the rarely-seen Cover 0 at the quarterback to confuse him. Kelly will simplify the offense  Pittsburgh allows just 80 rushing yards a game on 2.35 yards per carry. Sophomore linebacker Max Gruder leads the Panther defense, which  RB  20 25  Cierre Wood Jonas Gray  Jr. Sr.  LT LG  70 72 66 76  Zack Martin Nick Martin Chris Watt Andrew Nuss  Jr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  
for Rees to minimize the num­ber of complex reads, and the Irish will focus on quickly get- ranks No. 23 in the country against the run. Notre Dame’s success in the  QB  11 10  Tommy Rees  Dayne Crist  So. Sr.  C  52 57  Braxston Cave Mike Golic Jr.  Sr. Sr.  
ting the ball to the abundance of playmakers they have. While Pittsburgh may be complex, it  running game will depend on whether the offensive line can rebound from a lackluster sec- RG  78 65  Trevor Robinson Conor Hanratty  Sr. Fr.  
isn’t athletic enough to keep up. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  ond half against Michigan State. EDGE: EVEN  RT  75 74  Taylor Dever Christian Lombard  Sr. So.  
TE  80 18  Tyler Eifert Ben Koyack  Jr. Fr.  
IRISH SCHEDULE Sept. 3 South Florida  WR  3 81  Michael Floyd John Goodman  Sr. Sr.  
(L, 23–20)  
Sept. 10 @ Michigan  
(L, 35-31) Sept. 17 Michigan St. (W, 31-13) Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh Oct. 1 @ Purdue Oct. 8 Air Force Oct. 22 USC Oct. 29 Navy Nov. 5 @ Wake Forest Nov. 12 Maryland  IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS Notre Dame showed a flash of brilliance on special teams last week when George Atkinson returned a kick for a touchdown, but that accomplishment was overshadowed by John Goodman’s fum­ble on a punt return, which continues a string of struggles in that aspect. Ben Turk looked somewhat better by rugby-punting, but that is not an ideal solution for the Irish. Until the punting and punt return woes are fixed, Notre Dame cannot win the field position battle.  Notre Dame Defense  
Nov. 19 Nov. 26  Boston College @ Stanford  EDGE: PITTSBURGH  CB  12 23  Robert Blanton Lo Wood  Sr. So.  

Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 

22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 
P ILB 
44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
9 Louis Nix So. 
NG 98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 

60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 
LS ILB 
5 Manti Te’o Jr. 54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore Sr. DE 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
PR 
81 John Goodman Sr. 
6 Theo Riddick Jr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 

26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 
13 Troy Niklas Fr. 

34 George Atkinson Fr. S 17 Zeke Motta Jr. OLB
KR 
28 Austin Collinsworth So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 

KO 
Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

After three games, I have picked exactly zero games correctly. In my defense, no one saw the loss to South Florida coming, and I would have had the score of the Michigan game exactly right ... if the game had ended 30 seconds earlier. And last week, the Irish overcame their mistakes to beat Michigan State. 
This week should be the week I actually get one right. The defensive line was impressive again last week, pushing around a strong Spartan front. That will continue. Tommy Rees should have plenty of time to throw and plenty of breathing room for his seem-ingly-inevitable turnovers. Notre Dame isn’t yet playing to its potential, but Pittsburgh isn’t good enough to win. The Irish will get their second win of the season on the weekend I get my first one. 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

It’s as Mickey said in “Rocky II,” or a censored version of what Linkin Park says in “Numb/Encore” 
— “What are we waiting for?” 
What was Notre Dame waiting for? Where was that team all sea­son? 
Yes, Notre Dame still turned the ball over three times, but at some 

point the Irish will cure the punt return woes. If nothing else, stick Michael Floyd back there to fair catch every time around. And the offensive line certainly paid the price for letting Tommy Rees get blindsided, causing a fumble. 
With the turnovers finally cured, or nearly so, and the defensive front showing its true potential, no need to wait anymore. 
After all, Rocky beat Apollo Creed the second time. 
Eric Prister 
Sports Writer 

The Irish showed last week just what they can do when they don’t beat themselves, though they still committed three turnovers. The Irish did not need a 100-yard per­formance from either Cierre Wood or Michael Floyd to win by double digits. It seemed as though the of­fense simplified things and execut­
ed better than they had all season. 

The defense held the Spartans to just 29 rushing yards, as the defensive line dominated the interior and kept Michigan State off balance most of the game. Pitts­burgh has only played one legitimate opponent so far this season, losing to Iowa last week. Notre Dame is once again the better team — the question remains whether or not they will beat themselves like they did against South Florida and Michigan. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Pittsburgh 14 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Pittsburgh 10 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Pittsburgh 20 
PITTSBURGH OFFENSIVE PITTSBURGH RUSHING PITTSBURGH PASSING COACHING Running back Ray Graham Pittsburgh quarterback Tino 
Pittsburgh coach Todd Graham has established himself as one Sunseri had some trouble ad-is familiar with Notre Dame’s of-of the nation’s top running justing to Todd Graham’s new fensive schemes despite being backs, currently ranking fifth system at the beginning of the in his first year, as he coached in the nation with 140 yards year but has now become fairly 
o-Head Tulsa to an upset victory over the per game. Graham’s six touch-comfortable in his schemes. Irish in 2010. In his first year, downs are also third in the While the Panthers no longer however, Graham is still working country. Pittsburgh will lean on have stalwart receiver Jona­his players with his system. Irish its lead running back to estab-than Baldwin, receiver Devin defensive coordinator Bob Diaco, lish a strong ground game early Street has capably filled Bald-however, has a defensive front in Saturday’s contest. win’s role as primary target. seven that plays fast, strong and First-year Panthers coach Sunseri and Street have devel­smart now that it understands Todd Graham brings the same oped a good relationship, which 
Diaco’s system. offensive scheme he used to has manifested itself in Street prolific effect at Tulsa. In 2010, averaging 15.7 yards per catch 
EDGE: EVEN Todd Graham’s Tulsa squad av-and nearly 80 yards per game. eraged over 500 yards of total Panthers running back Ray offense, including 217 yards per Graham adds another unique 
22 Antwuan Reed.        Sr. game on the ground. dimension to Pittsburgh’s aer-CB 21 Buddy Jackson                   Sr. The Notre Dame defensive line ial attack, as he is tied for the 



Pittsburgh Defense 
18 Jarred Holley Jr. 
played perhaps its best game of second-most receptions on the 
FS 41 Andrew Taglianetti Jr. 
the season against a physical team. Ray Graham’s running Michigan State squad, high-ability also sets Pittsburgh up 
5 Ejuan Prince Fr. 
lighted by the Spartans’ mere to utilize play-action effectively. 
OLB 7 Brandon Lindsey Sr. 
29 rushing yards on 23 carries. The Notre Dame second-Though some of the younger ary has been inconsistent over 7 Brandon Lindsey Sr. 55 Max Gruder  So. players will see less playing its first three contests, though 
32 Tristan Roberts  Sr. 
DE 97 Aaron Donald So. ILB time against Pittsburgh’s com-cornerback Robert Blanton has plex offense, the Irish defensive been the one constant. Most im-
NG 
94 Myles Caragein Sr. 
line provides an equal match to portant to Notre Dame’s pass 
57 Aaron Donald So. 
32 Tristan Roberts Sr. the Panthers’ experienced of-defense is the play of corner-ILB fensive front. back Gary Gray, who struggled 
44 Shane Gordon So. 
98 Chas Alecxih Sr. 
DE Linebacker Prince Shembo against Michigan. If Gray can 91 Tyrone Ezell So. 
will retun to the field this week play to his potential, Notre after tending to a family emer-Dame has two top-quality cor­8 Todd Thomas Fr. gency last week, bolstering nerbacks. OLB 38 Greg Williams Sr. Notre Dame’s run defense. 
25 Jason Hendricks So. 
EDGE: EVEN EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
SS 23 Lafayette Pitts Fr. 
2 K’Waun Williams So. 
CB 21 Buddy Jackson Sr. 
PITTSBURGH SCHEDULE 

Sept. 3 Buffalo (W, 35-16) Sept. 10 Maine PITTSBURGH SPECIAL TEAMS (W, 35-29) 
Pittsburgh excels on punt coverage, allowing only two returns all Sept. 17 @ Iowa year — which, when combined, lost three yards. This should give (L, 27-31) them a significant advantage on the Irish, who have struggled all Sept. 24 Notre Dame year when returning punts. Sept. 29South Florida 

Pittsburgh Offense 
Kicker Kevin Harper has struggled, making only four of his sev-Oct. 15 Utah en attempts, and missing two from within 40 yards. Harper has Oct. 26 Connecticut also forced only one touchback all season on kickoffs, while he has Nov. 5 Cincinnati 
87 Mike Shanahan Jr. 
WR kicked two out of bounds for penalties. Nov. 12 @ Louisville 
17 Salath Williams Fr. 
Nov. 25 @ West Virginia EDGE: EVEN Dec. 3 Syracuse 
83 Hubie Graham Jr. 
80 Brendan Carozzoni Fr. 

TE Pittsburgh Specialists 
68 Jordan Gibbs Sr.. 
RT 60 Greg Gaskins Sr. 
39 Kevin Harper Jr. 

PK
52 Lucas Nix Sr. 
92 Matt Yoklic So. 

RG 78 Cory King So. 
P 11 Mark Myers Fr. 75 Ryan Turnley Jr. 12 Tino Sunseri Jr. 
LS 
58 Kevin Barthelemy So. 
C QB
54 Chris Jacobson Sr. 10 Trey Anderson Fr. 
LG 
54 Chris Jacobson Sr. 
1 Ray Graham Jr. 
74 Matt Rotheram Fr. 14 Ronald Jones Fr. 
RB 
4 Zach Brown Sr. 
PR
70 Juantez Hollins So. LT 66 Justin Virbitsky Jr. 9 Corey Davis Fr. 
KR 
WR 
5 Cameron Saddler Jr. 
14 Ronald Jones Fr. 
39 Kevin Harper Jr. 

WR 
15 Devin Street So. 
KO 
84 Ed Tinker So. 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame is still a flawed team. One week does not erase the recur­ring problems of this team. The Irish still have secondary and spe­cial teams issues, but last week was a step in the right direction. 
This week Notre Dame faces a Pittsburgh team that, quite simply, is not very good. Panthers coach 
Todd Graham will restore success to the program, but 2011 will be rough for the former Tulsa coach who beat the Irish last season. 
Panthers running back is very talented, but one thing the Irish have proven is they can stop the run. They will keep Graham in check and force Tino Sunseri to throw early and often. 
Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray will combine for over 200 yards as this still-flawed team rolls to victory. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Pittsburgh 13 
Chris Masoud 

Assistant Managing Editor 

After the dismantling of Michigan State, Notre Dame heads into Pitts­burgh with more confidence than any one-win team in the nation, and right­ly so. Tommy Rees played the worst game of his career, and yet the sopho­more quarterback continues to do just enough to give the Irish a chance to win. He’s due for a breakout perfor­

mance against Pittsburgh, and if the offensive line continues to keep his shirt clean, the sophomore could post the best numbers of his career against a suspect Panthers secondary. 
Brian Kelly also just discovered his new favorite toy: fresh­man defensive end Aaron Lynch’s bull rush on third down. In addition to Kelly’s praise of the rookie’s genetic composition, the head coach said he just has a desire to bring the quarter­back down. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42, Pittsburgh 14 




First-year Pitt coach a familiar face for Irish 

east is east west is west A DOUBLE FEATURE introduced by the Award-winning British Producer LesLee Udwin. SEPTEMBER 23 | 6:30 PM The Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Tickets $3-6 | 574.631.2800 | performingarts.nd.edu DEBARTOLO + PERFORMING ARTS CENTER  
Ready for off-campus housing? Now leasing for 2012-2013 $100 SIGNING BONUS* *Lease must be signed by December 9, 2011 • Townhomes & Houses • Student neighborhoods • Security & ADT systems • Washers and dryers • Dishwashers • Lawn service • 2 -6 bedrooms Locally owned .. and managed OFF-C A MPUSCall today for best selection (574)234-2436 www.kramerhouses.com STUDEN T H HOUSING  


By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
One of the biggest challenges first-year coaches face is install­ing their systems while prepar­ing for unfamiliar opponents. Pittsburgh’s Todd Graham, how­ever, is intimately familiar with Notre Dame, as he coached Tulsa to one of the biggest upsets in Notre Dame history, when the Golden Hurricane defeated the Irish 28-27 in Notre Dame Sta­dium last year. 
“[Graham] knows us quite well from last year,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We’re familiar with his system. Now he essentially put in his philosophy and his system of offense and defense at Pittsburgh. When you’re watch­ing film, you’re seeing a lot of similarities to his Tulsa club.” 
Graham’s signature philosophy is defensive complexity, as his Panthers (2-1) employ a dizzying number of looks in order to con­fuse the opposing quarterback. 
“They play every coverage imaginable in the back end,” Kel­ly said. “You’re going to see mul­tiple coverages in the secondary. They’ll bring a lot of pressure, mix it up between three down and four down [linemen], and give you a lot of different looks. I think that that, from our stand­point, is what concerns us the most.” 
Kelly drew comparisons be­tween his squad and the Pan­thers’ defensive front. 
“I like their front. They can be in three down, four down, and they’re a lot like us in that stand­point,” Kelly said. “I just remem­ber last year they brought a lot of pressure.” 
While the Pittsburgh second­ary has struggled somewhat this season, senior Irish wide receiver Michael Floyd expects the Pan­thers to play their best game of the year against Notre Dame. 
“When a team plays Notre Dame … it [doesn’t] really matter what the record was,” Floyd said. “I think they will play exception­ally well, and I don’t think the mistakes will be there.” 
On the offensive side of the ball, the Panthers are taller and bigger than Graham’s 2010 Tulsa squad, but Irish defensive coor­dinator Bob Diaco said the core schemes are no different. 
“Tulsa had excellent personnel too, it’s just a little different,” Di­aco said. “They still have a myri­ad of different plays that they run from different steps, and we need to be ready to defend all of those plays.” 
The Panther offense revolves around junior running back Ray Graham, who currently ranks fifth in the nation in rushing with 140 yards per game. 
“[Ray Graham] is a rugged player,” Diaco said. “He’s got con­tact balance and initial quick­ness, he’s got long speed and he could move both laterally in short space quickly, and he can also get vertical and accelerate. He’s a rugged runner, he’s a tackle-breaker, so he’s a real challenge.” 
Graham, however, is also known for his versatility out of the backfield. 
“Obviously the first guy that stands out is Ray Graham,” Kelly said. “[He’s an] outstanding run­ning back, [and is] multidimen­sional in that he can catch the ball coming out of the backfield 
— he can line up as a wide re­ceiver.” 
Junior Panther quarterback Tino Sunseri has flourished in Todd Graham’s offensive system and has especially developed a relationship with receiver Devin Street. 
“[Sunseri] seems far more comfortable in this system,” ju­nior linebacker Manti Te’o said. “He’s making good decisions, so we definitely know what they are capable of doing.” 
Sunseri leads a complex of­fense that will force the Irish defense to stay honest and disci­plined. 
“We need to read our key, get into our fit, and we need to stay there — and not be unfocused with our eyes,” Diaco said. 
Te’o, however, believes the Irish must stick to their funda­mentals. 
“We just play football,” he said. “We just line up and get to the ball.” 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 





Jones carries the memory of his father on the field 
By ANDREW OWENS lationship now because he knows Associate Sports Editor what I’m going through and he 
knows what kind of person my dad 
Ever since he was a young boy, was.” sophomore receiver TJ Jones has Those surrounding TJ have depended on his father as the rock been astonished by the receiver’s in his life — spiritually, academi-composure since the tragedy. cally and athletically. “Just the way that he’s handled 
When Andre Jones, member himself, it’s just unbelievable,” of the 1988 Irish national cham-Irish senior safety and captain pionship team, died at age 42 in Harrison Smith said. “There was June, much of what TJ had come never any time where he was to rely on in his first 18 years of down or gave up. He’s just a tough life was thrown into chaos. But kid and … it’s just motivation. Just the sophomore has transformed doing it for his dad. Just giving into the rock that his mother and him that little bit extra when you four younger siblings depend on in might not want to put everything Gainesville, Ga. you have into it is something that 
“I just think to myself [about his he has definitely used to his advan­father] every day,” Jones said. “I’ve tage. got six, seven people counting on Irish coach Brian Kelly credits me. So every day I got to push my-Jones’ ability to mature amid a self that much harder to make sure life-changing situation. that it’s not enough to make it for “As a player, I think he’s really myself, but also for my family.” stepped up and become more ac-
Jones was participating in sum-countable,” Kelly said. “He’s not mer practices when receivers a freshman anymore. Last year coach Tony Alford called him into there were times where he would 


the Guglielmino Complex and told just act like a freshman. He’s a lot him his father was ill after suffer-more mature in the way he han­ing a brain aneurism. dles himself.” 

Alford and Andre Jones devel-Jones said he often stops during oped a close bond after the recruit-his busy days and reflects on his player. it until I ran out of the tunnel the give it your all and play,” Jones ment of TJ When Alford’s father relationship with his father. “I don’t have that person to go first time knowing he wasn’t there, said. “Then we’ll talk on Sunday died at the time, Jones assisted the “It’s not hard to keep him on my to when I have questions on foot-so I am very grateful he got to see and Monday and recap how the receivers coach during the period. mind,” he said. “Every second I’m ball or life at Notre Dame because me last year.” game went if I can’t catch it online.” 
“[Alford] and my dad had a very not thinking about schoolwork or he knew all that,” Jones said. “So Jones is serving as a father-fig-As those in his life — teammates, close relationship, and he’s kind of football, I’m thinking about him. I don’t have anyone to really talk ure for his brother Malachi while friends and family — continue to like that father figure in my life on It’s put a toll on me. When I’m on to now, and I’ve become the man the high school senior takes re-rely on the sophomore’s ability to campus and I can talk about any-the field or in the classroom [it’s of the house, so my problems don’t cruiting visits himself and decides lead, TJ has discovered more about thing with him if I needed to,” TJ difficult], but outside that I can matter to me anymore. It’s more where to play college football. himself by reflecting on Andre’s said. “I know during that period, think to myself and be myself.” helping my family out. “Every Thursday or so I try to life as a football player, a friend, him and my dad, their relationship Jones said he valued the discus-“I’m very grateful because I talk to him pregame and see who and, most importantly, a father. grew because my dad was there sions he had with his father, his know a lot of times it would make they’re playing, what their game-for him helping him stay through source of advice for life at Notre him tear up or cry running out of plan is, and that’s my advice — to Contact Andrew Owens at it spiritually, so that helps our re-Dame and as a college football the tunnel, and I never understood go out and ball and do your best, aowens2@nd.edu 



