the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


NDreleases statement on assault 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame released a state­ment Thursday in which it said it thoroughly investigates every sexual misconduct allegation, adheres to student privacy laws and does not tolerate sexual misconduct, in response to com­plaints directed at the University. 
“Sexual misconduct is unac­ceptable and will not be tolerat­ed at Notre Dame,” the state­ment said. “The unfortunate reality is that sexual misconduct is a serious issue at colleges and universities across the country, and we are not immune.” 
The Chicago Tribune reported Thursday that Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) delayed the investigation of a sexual assault allegation that a Saint Mary’s College student filed in September against a male Notre Dame student. The Tribune cited the student and her fami­ly’s disappointment with the University’s investigation. 
The Tribune also compared the case to that of Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg, a Saint Mary’s student who committed suicide in September, nine days after reporting a sexual assault alle­gation against a Notre Dame athlete to NDSP. Seeberg’s par­ents expressed disappointment with the University in a December interview with the Chicago Tribune, but Notre Dame and University President 
see ASSAULT/page 6 



McCormick wins in run-off 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Junior Pat McCormick and sophomore Brett Rocheleau won the election for student body president and vice president after capturing 64 percent of the vote in Thursday’s runoff, Judicial Council president Marcelo Perez said. 
McCormick and Rocheleau defeated junior James Ward and freshman Heather Eaton in the runoff election. 
“It was a very normal turnout, with just a little over 3,000 students voting,” Perez said. “No more or no less than usual.” 
McCormick, who currently serves as the chair of the Senate Social Concerns Committee, said he looks forward to working toward a smooth transition with current student body presi­dent Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell. 

“We want to build on the extraordinary foundation their leadership has built for student government,” he said. 
The ticket’s top priority is going to be trying to con­nect to students in all areas 
of their life, McCormick said. 
“We want to try to trans­form student government as a way of amplifying stu ­dents’ voices and respond­ing to issues that students care about,” he said. “It is our hope that we can build a student government that allows students to chart their own course for the future of Notre Dame.” 
McCormick said they hope to make student govern ­ment more about students by creating a committee for constituent services. 
“Ultimately, moral con­science is at the core of all of our ideas,” he said. 
Rocheleau, who was out 

of town when the polls closed at 8 p.m., received the results of the election via Skype. 
“I’m very excited and I wish I was there,” he said. “We’re both looking for ­ward to a great year.” 
Ward and Eaton received 

35.9 percent of the vote in the runoff. Eaton said the ticket was excited to have made it to this point in the election. 
“It’s definitely something to cross off the bucket list,” Eaton said. “I just want to thank everyone who has 
see ELECTION/page 7 


Students appreciate hall staff 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Senija Begic entered her posi­tion on the cleaning staff of Sorin College when she emi­grated from Bosnia to America 11 years ago. Begic said she has developed strong relation­ships with residents of the dorm during her time on the job. 
“I like my boys. They help me a lot and every day come to my break room and ask me ques­tions,” she said. “When I clean, these guys keep it clean too. I am proud of them.” 
At Notre Dame, there seems to be a special relationship between staff and students, with custodial doors often fea­turing thank you notes, ban­ners and stickers. 
In Sorin, the bond has led to Senija Appreciation Day, fresh­man Bobby Hess said. 
“She has to deal with a lot of us, so last semester we signed up for half-hour periods and did jobs to help out,” he said. “We know how much work she puts in to keep this place clean.” 
Working as cleaning staff for five dorms on campus, Shania Carter has established her own bonds with students. 
“I do believe that there is a relationship between staff and students in the dorms,” she said. “I’ve had wonderful expe­
see STAFF/page 6 


Robinson Center celebrates 10th anniversary 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

A little more than 10 years ago, Marguerite Taylor walked into the building on 
N. Eddy Street that would become the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC), without knowing how the facility would become an integral part of the neighbor­hood. 
“We stood here trying to figure out what we were sup­posed to do,” said Taylor, the associate director for Adult Programs. “It has grown into a great place.” 
The RCLC serves as a com­munity resource for the peo­ple of South Bend, specifically the Northeast Neighborhood, Taylor said. It began as an off-campus educational initia­tive created in partnership between Notre Dame and the Neighborhood. 
The RCLC offers everything from afterschool tutoring for children in grade school to computer classes for the eld­erly to telephone service for a resident to use, Taylor said. They also hold community meetings there, with resi­dents with different back ­grounds coming together to give input. 
“It’s a safe, neutral place,” Taylor said. “Everyone has the right to talk.” 
According to the 2009-2010 RCLC Annual Report, more than 16,200 guests signed into the RCLC during the year. Jennifer Knapp Beudert, the manager of the RCLC, said the RCLC pro ­gramming reaches an addi­tional 3,000 people outside of the building with programs in South Bend community schools. 
“The foundation of every­thing we do is relationships,” Beudert said. “Our new slo­
see CENTER/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Studentsdesignsoftwarefor Wii page3 Molarity:AsuccessfulObservercomic page12  Women’sbasketballtoface UConn page24 Viewpoint page10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, February 18, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOUR LIFE WAS A PARTY, WHAT WOULD THE THEME BE?

THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 

OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Graphics 
Sam Stryker Blair Chemidlin Kristen Durbin Photo Anna Boarini Sarah O’Connor 
Sports Scene 
Chris Allen Mary Claire Jack Hefferon O’Donnell Andrew Viewpoint Gastelum Megan Kozak 
OFFBEAT 
Man acquitted due to crazy hair style 
DOYLESTOWN, Pa.— A Philadelphia man's wiry hair has helped him beat a robbery rap. 
The evidence against Timothy Corbett included surveillance footage and an eyewitness account, but his defense was that his stiff hair didn't match the tou­sled appearance of the man in the video. The Bucks County jury agreed Wednesday, finding him not guilty of charges including robbery and terroristic threats. 
Defense attorney Louis Busico tugged on his client's hair during closing arguments, telling the jury that if he couldn't move it 

Scott Kennedy  David Kenney  Byron Henry  Greg Berryman  Margo Kurtze  Kirsten Danna  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  
Dillon  Dillon  O’Neill  Keough  Badin  Pasquerilla West  

“Don’t bring “Hyphy du.’” “Star Wars.” “Stop light “Zoo.” “Classy Jersey 
kool-aid to a party.” Shore.” 
grown man’s 
party.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

there was no way Corbett was the man with the mussed locks in the video. Corbett had been charged with robbing the Bensalem convenience store on April 24. 
Assistant District Attorney Christopher Rees says prosecutors believed the evidence was solid but the jury found there was rea­sonable doubt. 
Elderly man survives 5 day stay in desert 
PHOENIX — Henry Morello prayed to Saint Anthony, the patron saint of lost things. But as the 84-year-old spent a fifth night stuck in a ditch in the Arizona desert, he started to lose hope. 
"My phone went dead, my battery went dead, and I went dead," Morello said. 
But Morello lived to tell his tale at a Phoenix hospi­tal, where the diabetic man was admitted in good con­dition despite drinking windshield wiper fluid to stay hydrated. 
Morello said he made a wrong turn while driving home . 
He ripped a chrome piece from his car and put it on the roof, hoping someone would see the reflection. 
A pack of hikers found him Saturday morning and his long, painful ordeal was over. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Jeff Hollender, the co founder and former President and CEO of Seventh Generation will be giving a talk today in the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series. The lecture will be held in Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture starts at 
10:40 a.m. The event is free and open to faculty, staff and students. 
The 10th Anniversary of the Robinson Community Learning Center is being cele­brated tonight. The event starts at 5:30 p.m. and will be held at the center. University president Rev. John Jenkins C.S.C, Rev. Edward A. “Monk” Malloy 
C.S.C. and U.S. Rep. Joe Donnelly will be in attendence. 
Saturday night at 6:30 p.m. the original Mel Brooks film “The Producers” will be shown in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film tells the story of two pro­ducers trying to make a hit out of the musical “Springtime for Hitler,” except notihng goes as they planned. The show costs $3 to $6. 
Quentin Tarantino’s debut, “Reservoir Dogs” will be shown Saturday night in The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film starts at 
11:55 p.m. and costs $3 to $6. 
Sunday, John Chappell Stowe will be giving a concert of organ music in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. He will be performing a newly restored Baroque organ built in 1680. The con­cert starts at 2:30 p.m. and costs between $5 and $15. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight saturday sunday monday tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


46 26 HIGH 4441 3227
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

43 20 LOW 3431 1817 







Friday, February 18, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Students learn from 
Course innovates with Wii 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Department of Computer Science and Engineering prides itself on keeping pace with the fast-moving technological world. Only recently, however, has the department branched out to the world of video games. 
Professor Aaron Striegel cur­rently teaches a course in which students create software designed for the Nintendo Wii. The program, “WiiHab,” is intended to assist stroke vic­tims in the rehabilitation process. 
Striegel said the use of video games in the classroom is an aim to generate an innovative learning experience. 
“The idea for this course came about from a freshman engineering class,” he said. “Wanting to make the class more interesting, the class decided they wanted to use the WiiMote, a nickname given to the remote used with the Wii, to come up with 


designer Cole in NY 
While in New York, the stu­dents visited Cole’s design stu­dio, as well as one of his stores and the luggage floor at Macy’s. 
“The environment of the stu­dio and the people were what I liked the most,” senior Lauren Maddox said. “It made me more comfortable meeting the design­ers and knowing that they want­ed to hear what we had to say.” 
Schavitz said the studio was accommodating to the students, who were shown color pallets and trend forecasts for the Spring 2012 season. 
“They really did show us a lot more than I thought they would,” Schavitz said. “We were really able to capture the essence of their brand and 
glimpse at how 
they work.” 

luggage manu-Traub said vis-
Graduate student Anne ever before,” she said. “Having 

“We are really acting 
Martin, who was involved in an objective piece of technology 

facturer, iting the store 
as advisors to the
the creation of WiiHab, said the like WiiHab allows the thera-

Heritage helped him 
program is helpful for stroke pist to give live information to 

Travelware, are designers from the understand the 
patients in the rehabilitation their patient to tell them how 

the sponsors for typical Kenneth 
business perspective.” 
process. much progress they are mak­

this spring’s Cole client. 
“I used a ing.” 

course, she said. “Having your 
Conrado said Brent Schavitz own store is an 
computer pro-Striegel said developing 

students will MBA student excellent way to 
creative exercis-“WiiHab gives more gram to design WiiHab is an ongoing process. 
es for engineer-a computer “We are continuing to 
investigate how 

information to stroke
ing labs.” screen of research the impact the soft-
luggage usage 

Striegel’s idea therapists than ever where the cen-ware has on its patients,” he 
and needs have 

to make class before.” ter of balance said. 
changed since the terrorist 

more interesting was for the Wii Striegel said this continued 
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. They 

swiftly developed B a l a n c e research involves a wide vari­
will respond to these changes 

Anne Martin 
into a full-scale Board,” she ety of academic interests. 
with design concepts. 

course. He said graduate student said. “The “We are always looking for 
“Basically we are going to 
originally, stroke rehabilitation was a side proj­ect of the class, but the class decided to become more involved with the subject. 
“After putting our heads together, we decided to work with South Bend’s Memorial Hospital’s stroke rehab patients 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
High fashion encountered high education two weeks ago in New York City, when a group of Notre Dame students met fash­ion maven Kenneth Cole to receive a project assignment for Advanced Product Research, an industrial design course at Notre Dame. 
Professor Ann-Marie Conrado said the class, which is offered to junior and senior industrial design students, is meant to present real-world challenges on projects co-developed and monitored by an outside corpo­rate manufacturer. Kenneth Cole Productions 

on their balance,” Striegel said. tion to stroke therapists than and its exclusive 
patient can students who would be inter-
adjust the luggage and come up 
then stand on ested in helping with the 
with new and different ways to 
the board, and research,” Striegel said. 
incorporate [Cole’s] style,” jun-
the Wii will be able to inform “Whether they are pre-med, 
ior Ryan 
them instantly of their balance computer science or engineer-
Geraghty said. 
percentage.” ing majors, we would love to 
Senior John 

“The environment of 
Martin said the instantaneous have you on board.” 

Traub said the with ideas,” results are beneficial for stroke 
students are the studio and the Geraghty said. rehabilitation patients. Contact Adam Llorens at 
Maddox said 

coming up with people were what I
profiles of who his favorite part “WiiHab gives more informa-allorens@nd.edu 
liked the most.” 
they believe a was Cole describ-Kenneth Cole ing how he got client is. Lauren Maddox started in the 
“By coming up industry. 
senior 
show your iden­tity,” Traub said. “It was nice to 
see the vision transition from studio to store.” 
During a presentation on the project, Cole made a surprise appearance, fielding questions on style and his career. 
“He told us to keep his style in 
mind and the products that he designs, as well as others, when we are coming up 


with a person who will use this luggage, it gives you a sense of who you are designing for,” he said. “Very rarely do you design for your­self.” 
Notre Dame MBA students Brent Schavitz and Byron Kern will advise the class throughout the process. 
“We are really acting as advi­sors to the designers from the business perspective,” Schavitz said. “At some point this is a real product that has to sell.” 
Kern said his background in graphic design has proved to be helpful. 
“Because there is a fair amount of overlap between ID and graphic design, I can kind of speak their language,” he said. 
“He tried to sell 
shoes in Times 
Square, but he was told to stop,” she said. “The only people that were allowed to operate in Times Square are film crews, so he made a docu­mentary about selling women’s shoes and renamed his compa­ny Kenneth Cole Productions.” 
Designs will be reviewed at the end of the semester, and the winning design will be proto­typed in China. Geraghty said all the students are excited about the fact their design could be manufactured. 
“This isn’t all conceptual,” he said. “It’s going to be the real thing. It’s going to be made. That’s just really cool.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 18, 2011 Friday, February 18, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



Students help file tax returns 
Notre Dame’s community. 

By CARLY LANDON 
“In addition we will have a 
News Writer 
number of students who will 
work on campus with our 

Beginning Feb. 12 and run-international students to do ning through April 18, Notre tax returns for the internation-Dame and Saint Mary’s stu-al students and other mem­dents will provide free income bers of the international com-tax return preparation to low-munity to assure that the income and disabled taxpayers proper returns are filed with in the South Bend Community the state and federal govern-through Notre Dame’s Vivian ment,” he said. “That is it also Harrington Gray Tax in compliance with their immi-Assistance Program (TAP). gration status.” 
The program has run annu-When Milani started the pro-ally since it was founded in gram, his aim was to give back 1972 by Ken to the com-Milani. This munity and year, Milani this remains stepped down TAP’s pri­
“This is one of the 
and Ed Hums, mary goal, 
areas that I thinkthe
Mendoza Hums said. Professor of program allows us to “It's a com-Accounting, munity serv­
come together and
took the reigns. ice. I think 
break down those
“Milani took number one over a small barriers.” when Milani struggling pro-Ed Hums started the gram and over program he 
Mendoza professor of
time built it wanted it to 
accounting
into a program be this. Ken 
that last year did over 3800 tax returns for people in town and on cam­pus,” Hums said. 
The TAP now involves more than 90 student volunteers as well as several faculty mem­bers and local accountants who staff nine area service centers, Hums said. 
“We target people of modest means so in other words tax payers with incomes less than $40,000 which is approxi­mately the average income in St. Joe's County,” he said. “We will do free federal and state returns for these individuals.” 
Hums said the program also provides tax return assistance to international members of is a very giv­
ing and car­
ing person who realized that a lot of how you got to where you are comes form folks of modest means,” Hums said. 
Although Hums is new to directing the program this year, he has worked with Milani on TAP for the past two years. He also had Milani as a professor back in 1973. 
“I’m in the process of taking over and it’s the same situa­tion for myself. It’s an oppor­tunity for us to give back to the community because they did a lot for each of us,” Hums said. 
Hums said the program aims to bring Notre Dame and the South Bend community togeth­er. 
“I always remind our stu­dents that students do not meet or know people in the South Bend community, and people in the South Bend com­munity do not meet and know Notre Dame students,” he said. “This is one of the areas that I think the program allows us to come together and break down those barri­ers.” 
Both undergraduate and graduate students may partici­pate in the program. Students who have taken or are cur­rently enrolled in tax program class at Notre Dame are eligi­ble to apply for the program. Hums said most students involved are accounting majors. 
“When we go out, we have the class experience, the homework, and IRS certifica­tion. But all the certification and all the classroom exam­ples are nothing compared to doing those first couple returns,” Hums said. “You will know more about these people than anyone else because you know their income, their assets, you know everything” 
Student involvement in the program is purely voluntary yet provides invaluable experi­ence, Hums said. 
"It's a tremendous opportu­nity for students because it’s a challenge for students to work one on one in a real situation. You never know what he or she is going to come up with,” he said. “We develop interper­sonal skills, ability to think on your feet, and teach students how to really be accounts.” 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 




Sophomore discovers love for announcing 
introducing the players and their 

By ALICIA SMITH 
hometowns because I know that I
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
take pride in my hometown, so I really like to make that special,” 

Sophomore Chelsea Paccoini Paccoini said. “And then, if they said becoming the voice of Saint have a back-to-back good play or Mary’s basketball never crossed something, I put more enthusiasm her mind when she initially into it.” thought about working at the The crowd seems to appreciate 
Angela Athletic Center. But when  her announce­ments, Paccoini  
it came time to sign up for a job, she only had two available options. “I wanted to work in Angela, and I decided to  “I get so much more into the game because I have to pay attention and it’s so much fun.”  said. “All the fans usually applaud, and I think it gets them more into it, especially if some­body is coming to  
do intramurals,  watch  their  
and then we have the option to be game day  Chelsea Paccoini basketball announcer  friends,” she said. Paccoini said she has enjoyed  

workers,” she said. “By the time I went to sign up the only things that were left were ticket selling or [announcing].” 
Paccoini said she is pleased she chose to become the basketball announcer. 
“It’s just fun because I know a lot of the girls on the team and I’m friends with them and so I’ve got­ten to know them more,” she said. “It’s fun to be able to announce them when they do something good. I’ve gotten to work with a lot of people at Angela and they’re really nice.” 
Paccoini said she announced a few games during her first year, but has worked at almost all of the home games this season. 
Since then, announcing the beginning part of the game has been the highlight of her job. Additionally, Paccoini said she enjoys trying to engage the crowd with the play-by-play. 
“My favorite part sometimes is basketball her 
entire life and played from fourth grade through high school. Though she does not play for Saint Mary’s, she still enjoys being a part of the atmos­phere. 
“I played basketball pretty much my whole life so I knew about it and I thought it would just be fun,” she said. 
Paccoini said she finds it difficult to remain unbiased when an opposing team is winning the game, but said she does her best to keep the atmosphere open and friendly. 
Paccoini said she enjoys her job and plans to announce the basket­ball games throughout the rest of her time at the College. 
“I get so much more into the game because I have to pay atten­tion and it’s so much fun, “ she said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu. 



College to host ‘Encounter Retreat’ 
By SUSAN HEAD 
News Writer 
This weekend, 18 Saint Mary’s students will participate in the fourth annual student-run Encounter Retreat. The event, sponsored by Campus Ministries, will be held at Camp Friedenswald in Michigan from Friday afternoon until Saturday evening. 
The Encounter Retreat is a once-a-year event for Saint Mary’s that focuses on students developing personal relation­ships with Christ. Students also learn to think about the ways they encounter Christ in their lives. 
The retreat involves a series of six different talks concerning different aspects of faith and relationships. Student leaders deliver all of the talks. 
“Students enjoy getting to know God through other peo­ple,” Campus Ministry Assistant Director Regina Wilson said. 
The student speeches differ­entiate the Encounter Retreat from other retreats. Every year, student leaders put a lot of thought and effort into their speeches. Students often apply creative techniques in their les­sons including the use of music to establish and support a mes­sage. 
The weekend will begin with a talk on how the attendees might first come to understand themselves and will conclude on Saturday with a talk titled “Beyond the Encounter,” at which time attendees will be invited to learn how to be Christ-like to others. Throughout the weekend, attendees will also be encour­aged to share personal stories of how Christ has impacted their lives. The retreat will end with a Mass at the retreat cen­ter. 
In the past, students have found the retreat rewarding, giving positive feedback, and Wilson said she is confident this year’s retreat will prove to have similar results. 
“Students come looking for something such as friendship or faith and often find it very grati­fying,” Wilson said. “The goal of the retreat is that students will learn that their encounters with Christ have consequences.” 
The retreat also promises community-bonding events including games and various other activities. Wilson said she hopes the weekend will bring all in attendance closer not only with Christ, but also with each other. 
Contact Susan Head at shead02@saintmarys.edu 



Get in the Game! 
Earn a full 1% Cash Back on every purchase you make, no restrictions, no exceptions. 
Apply Today! 




H 

Annual Percentage Rate (APR). 1% cash back is paid out annually in January and is not applicable for cash advances or balance transfers.Not valid on delinquent, over limit, or closed accounts. Independent of the University. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 18, 2011 



Center 
continued from page 1 
gan is ‘A decade of changing lives, one relationship at a time.’ It’s all about relation­ships.” 
During the morning and early afternoon, adults par­ticipate in activities ranging from Wii Bowling and fitness to book and computer clubs. After 3 p.m. the rooms transform, bringing in a crowd of young children and college tutors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, among other volunteers. 
Notre Dame sophomore Linda Scheiber is one of the tutors, and she helps sev­enth-grader Joy Brown. 
“I’ve been here a year,” Scheiber said. “We help with pretty much all subjects, math and reading the most.” 
Brown said she went to the RCLC when she was a little girl, and she recently came back to get some help with homework. 
“[The help from tutoring] is good,” Brown said. “I enjoy being here.” 
Sophomore Isaac Harrington said he has helped sev ­enth -grader homework done,” he said. fosters. 
Beudert said around 300 “That’s why this place has college student volunteers a 360-degree perspective,” help each semester, with he said. “It touches the lives around 130 in both after-of college students, faculty 


grateful for the help. 
“If I didn’t have tutoring, I probably wouldn’t be getting my 


Assault 
continued from page 1 
Fr. John Jenkins have said the investigation had integrity. 
“We regret that some are criti­cal of our handling of sexual misconduct allegations, and we understand the pain these fami­lies are experiencing,” Notre Dame’s Thursday statement said. “At the same time, we stand behind the thoroughness, integrity and objectivity of our investigations, as well as the services available to students who are subjected to sexual mis­conduct.” 
NDSP works with the St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office, Special Victims Unit and other area police departments throughout sexual misconduct investigations, according to the statement. 
“Notre Dame takes very seri­ously its obligation to thoroughly investigate every allegation of sexual misconduct, particularly in light of the gravity, complexity and sensitivity of these cases,” the statement said. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said the University is working with the U.S. Department of Education to review its policies on sexual mis­conduct allegations. 
“We’re working with the department on an overall review of our policies,” he said. “This review is unrelated to any spe­cific case.” 
The University does not release information about inves­tigations, according to the state­ment, because it follows the school tutor­ing and the Take Ten pro­gram, an ini­tiative going to local schools to teach stu ­dents violence prevention and conflict resolution . Others help in English as a Second Language (ESL) courses and adult programming. 
Dr. Jim Frabutt, who serves on the RCLC Advisory Board, said 
“It’s a neat success story for Notre Dame and the Northeast Neighborhood. It’s a great start, a great foothold. It’s one of the biggest assets Notre Dame has in terms of relations with the community.” 
Dr. Jim Frabutt member RCLC Advisory Board 
and local stu­dents.” 
Taylor said the way the RCLC was designed was instrumental in its commu­nity feel. Through com­munity meet­ings during the months before it opened, resi­dents had a large input of what they 
w a n t e d  t h e  
b u i l d i n g  t o  
be.  
“ I t ’s  n o t  

what we want it to be,” 
the RCLC Taylor said. “It’s what the 
emerged out of a plan to find a way to have better relations with the communi­ty. 
“It’s a neat success story for Notre Dame and the Northeast Neighborhood,” he said. “It’s a great start, a great 
community wants it to be.” 
Tonight, the community is invited to an open house from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. to celebrate the anniversary, Taylor said. There will be speakers and special guests, as well as music. 
“[The RCLC] is truly a reflection of the neighbor-

Paul Ferguson foothold. It’s hood,” Taylor said. 
“That’s why this place 
for two years. one of the She is the third of five 
has a 360-degree
“My room -biggest assets generations to live on mate wanted perspective. It touches Notre Dame Francis Street and lives me to start the lives of college has in terms two blocks from the build-coming with of relations ing. In fact, the center is 
students, faculty and
h i m , ” with the com-named after her mother, Harrington local students.” munity. It Renelda Robinson, whom said. “It was serves as a Taylor said was the heart fun, so I kept great example of the neighborhood. 
Dr. Jim Frabutt 
coming.” of how these “She was a community 
member
F e r g u s o n partnerships activist,” Taylor said. “She said he was RCLC Advisory Board work.” died before she could see 
Frabutt said it. She’d be thrilled if she the RCLC could see it now.” touches every­
one, no matter what age, Contact Amanda Gray at because of the community it agray3@nd.edu 


Staff 
continued from page 1 
ly get to know about them, their parents, boyfriends and issues with classes.” 
Working between dorms has allowed Carter to observe what factors contribute to these rela­tionships. 
“From my experience, it depends on what dorm you work in and a lot on the rector and the relationship that they have with the students,” Carter said. “I’ve seen that the rectors active with their students rub off on them and the staff.” 
Carter said being outgoing is key to forming relationships with residents. 
“Sometimes you guys are busy, back and forth to class, and if you just make the effort to say good morning that breaks the ice,” she said. 
Senior Sorin resident Dennis Malloy said the cleaning staff deals with difficult issues because of the college environ­ment. Despite this, he said the staff continues to be friendly and open to conversation. 
“I love Senija because she’s always here for us. For four years, I’ve never heard her once complain and she’s always very happy to see us — even weekend mornings, even days she had to come through the snow to get here,” Malloy said. “And she’s doing it every day.” 
Begic said during the seven years she has worked in Sorin, the men have come to respect her like a mother. 
“I teach them a lot and they teach me a lot,” she said. Lacing her fingers together above her heart, she continued, “Here, my heart is so big. I feel at home.” 
Begic said she often hears from men who have graduated. Similarly, Carter said she receives cards from some of the women she knew as stu­dents. 
“After graduation, they write to let me know how they’re doing. It really means a lot to me,” Carter said. “Working in a place where you know these people makes a huge differ­ence.” 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which pro­tects students’ education records, grades and disciplinary histories. 
“However, beyond the limita­tions imposed by FERPA, it is Notre Dame’s long-held belief and policy that our students deserve certain degrees of priva­cy as part of the educational process, and we have stood by that principle, even in the face of the criticism that might invite,” the statement said. 
According to the statement, sexual misconduct cases are particularly complicated on col­lege campuses, when the stu­dents involved are usually acquaintances and alcohol is often a factor. 
“The University works tireless­ly on many fronts to combat sex­ual misconduct — by holding students to the highest of behav­ioral standards, providing vic­tims and survivors with the resources they need, offering an array of education and preven­tion programs and promoting an environment of respect that hon­ors the human dignity of each person,” the statement said. 



Friday, February 18, 2011 The Observer  NEWS page 7 


Election


Congress debates spending 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — In a deepen­ing struggle over spending, Republicans and Democrats swapped charges Thursday over a possible government shutdown when money runs out March 4 for most federal agencies. 
“Read my lips: We’re going to cut spending,” declared House Speaker John Boehner. He pledged that the GOP-controlled House would refuse to approve even a short-term measure at current funding levels to keep the government operating. 
The Ohio Republican prefaced his remarks by accusing Democrats of risking a shutdown “rather than to cut spending and to follow the will of the American people.” 
But moments later, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., retorted that Boehner was resorting “to threats of a shut­down without any negotiation.” Officials added that Democrats would seek a short-term bill with­out any cut in spending levels, a position sharply at odds with Boehner’s. 
The sparring occurred as the House labored to complete work on veto-threatened legislation to cut more than $61 billion from the budget year that’s more than a third over. That bill also would provide funding to keep the gov­ernment operating until Sept. 30. 
Working through dozens of amendments, the House voted 244-181 in early evening to block the FCC from implementing “net­work neutrality” regulations. The rules prohibit phone and cable companies from discriminating against Internet content and services, including online calling and Web video services that may compete with their core opera­tions. 
With that one bill at the center of a political dispute — the House has repeatedly worked well past midnight on the legislation this week — Boehner chose the moment to open a second front. To underscore the budget-cutting commitment by the 87 conserva­tive new members of his rank and file, he announced that Republicans would move quickly ties.” 
McCormick said he and Rocheleau are looking for­ward to taking office April 1. 
“We have high hopes for Notre Dame and the role that Notre Dame can play in high­er education,” McCormick said. “We want to help stu­dents realize those hopes for our school.” 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
this spring on companion legisla­tion to cut “wasteful mandatory spending” by the federal govern­ment. 
He provided no details, but party officials said they expected the effort to begin shortly after the House returns from next week’s recess. 
The current legislation is 
continued from page 1 
supported us. It’s been a great run.” 
Ward said he hopes to remain involved with student government despite the loss. 
“I’m thinking about jump­ing into the policy side of things,” he said. “It definitely opens up a lot of opportuni­
sweeping in scope, containing cuts to literally hundreds of domestic programs, from educa­tion to environmental protection, 



Publishing industry 
nutrition and parks. 
In addition, it has become a target for first-term conservative Republicans eager to demon-


reels after Borders fall 
strate their budget-cutting bona fides and for other lawmakers hoping to change the course of government in ways large or small. 
Republicans led the way on a 250-177 vote to stop the Environmental Protection Agency from imposing limits on mercury pollution from cement factories. Supporters said the new rules would send American jobs over­seas, where air quality standards are more lax or non-existent. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Whether or not Borders survives closing some 200 stores, the “superstore” boom of the past two decades has busted, authors and publish­ers face a market minus millions of square feet of physical shelf space and communities once crowded with booksellers may find themselves with none. 
“I think Borders’ fall will cause a lot of publishers to realize they can’t just count on a few giant entities to sell their products,” said Simba Information senior trade analyst Michael Norris. 
Borders, the second largest chain behind Barnes & Noble, Inc., filed for Chapter 11 bank­ruptcy protection Wednesday, and will close nearly a third of its 642 stores, from San Francisco to Fort Lauderdale, Fla. About 6,000 of the company’s 19,500 employees will lose their jobs. Borders owes millions of dollars to publishers, who must decide whether they should continue doing business with a bookseller that has been unable to pay its bills. 
“Penguin hopes that Borders will emerge from this process as a smaller but stronger book retailer, and will work closely with Borders management to support this transition,” Penguin Group (USA), which is owed $41.1 million, said in a state­ment. “Penguin has been follow­ing developments at Borders very closely for many months and has taken appropriate steps to mitigate the financial impact of the company’s bankruptcy on Penguin.” 
Borders’ bankruptcy should accelerate at least a few trends: E-books now are an estimated 10 percent of the market, 10 times the share of three years ago, and readers no longer close to a Borders may instead down­load a book or buy a physical one online; author book tours will continue to evolve, as more events — if held at all — will take place at libraries, lecture halls and other settings outside a store; and the era when Barnes & Noble and Borders opened multiple stores within driving, or even walking distance of each other, is truly over. 
Based in Ann Arbor, Mich., a college town, Borders Group Inc. began as an offbeat, likeable underdog, grew into a power­house that helped shut down many independent sellers and now must compete in a tight, increasingly online economy, in an ever-hurried world. Publishers are skeptical that Borders can rebound but very much wish it would. Although earnings have dropped sharply in recent years, Borders is still a billion-dollar entity which can make a book a hit. Superstores have a reputation for mechani­cally favoring commercial releas­es, but Borders has long had an affinity for literary fiction, espe­cially paperbacks. In recent years, Chris Cleave’s “Little Bee” and David Benioff’s “City of Thieves” are among the books publishers credit Borders with helping to make best-sellers. 
“They’ve always been great champions of the trade paper­back format,” says Carrie Kania, who heads HarperCollins’ paper­back imprint, Harper Perennial. 


page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February, 18 2011 

Fatherofmusicgroup 
Hawaiieyesgayceremonies 
memberspleadsguilty 
moons, also will allow gay cou-MikeJohnHoughofKauaiIsland
Associated Press 

ples toget civil unions evenif Weddings,whoexpectsthenum-
HONOLULU—Foryears,the theydon'tcomefromstateswith berofceremoniesheperformsto Rev.FayHoveyhasheldroman-compatiblelaws.Thiscouldpro-increasebetween10percentand tic ceremonies on thesandfor vide aboostto the tourism-20percent. gaypartnerswhowanttopledge dependentislandsthataretrying WhentheHawaiiSenatevoted theirloveinHawaii.Thecouples torecoverfromtherecession. 18-5 to pass civil unions takephotosandmemorieswith "Itwillcertainly drive more Wednesday,it soughttoend them,but theylack alegaland tourismand bring morepeople nearly 20yearsof thousands-
bindingrecognitionoftheirrela-to us," saidMichaelWaddell, strongrallies,electionbattles tionship. general manager for theMaui and passionatepublic testimony 
Thatwillchangewhen same-Sunseeker, a resortcateringto thathave dividedthe Rainbow sex civil unions soon become law gay clientele."Theycomehere State. intheRainbowState. becausetheycanbecomfortable Votersoverwhelming passed 
"They havethatfantasy just andtheycanbethemselves." the nation'sfirst"defense of like anyothercouple,tocome The Maui Sunseeker is marriage"constitutionalamend-andhaveaweddingandahon-expanding from 17to 30 rooms ment in 1998 in response toa eymoon,"saidHovey, ofAloha bytheendoftheyear,whichwill state SupremeCourtdecision 
MauiGayWeddings,whohopes helpit accommodatenew visi-fiveyears earlierthatnearly for anincrease incommitment tors,hesaid. madeHawaiithefirst state to ceremonies."Whentheycometo Honeymoonsandmarriages legalizegaymarriage. 
Hawaii,everybodycanrelaxin made up nearlyone-tenthof The amendment resultedina theirspiritsandfeelincluded." Hawaiivacationslast year, with lawbanning gay marriage in Hawaii lawmakersgavefinal morethan600,000touriststrav-Hawaiibutleftthedooropenfor approval to civil unions elingforthat reasonoutof a civilunions. Wednesdayandsentthelegisla-totalofabout7 millionannual Sincethen,29otherstatesalso tionto DemocraticGov.Neil visitors,accordingtopreliminary have enacted defenseofmar-
AP 

Abercrombie, whoplanstosign stategovernmentstatistics. riageamendments. 
it into lawwithin10business "Wedon'tdiscriminate.We're Opponents of civilunions say
Keith Brown, left, and attorney Steven Shapiro stand at his 
days. Civilunionswouldbegin knownforhavingtolerance and thepartnershipscouldleadto Jan.1,2012,making thestate mutualrespectforall,"saidMike same-sex marriage, likely theseventhinthenationtogrant McCartney,presidentfor the throughacourtchallengebased 
15years each on thesecond-

hearing in Provo, Utah, on Feb. 17. 
virtuallythesamerightsofmar-Hawaii TourismAuthority. "Our onthe argument that gaycou-
Associated Press 

riageto same-sex coupleswith-naturalbeauty,peopleandspirit ples aren'ttrulybeingtreated PROVO, Utah  — The dis-plea deal with prosecutors, degree felonies. Under the 
outauthorizingmarriageitself. create and environment for equallyunlessthey'reallowedto traught father of The 5 he will serve at least a 
The culturallydiverseislands romance." bemarried. Browns musical group plead-decadeinprison. 
—withtheirswayingpalmtrees, But thenumberof couples Theirfearsmayhavegrown ed guiltyThursday to sexual-TherecordsfiledFeb.10in 
picturesque sunsets and wind-seeking civil unions may be when the Senateconfirmed the ly abusing his daughters the abuse case don't identify 
swept sands—arealready a somewhatmodest, according to state's firstopenlygaySupreme whentheywerechildrenina any victim by name or indi­
welcomingplaceforgaytourists, onestudy.Between 569 and Courtjustice,Sabrina McKenna, deal that will send him to catetherelationshipbetween 
includingsome whoseek infor-1,285 same-sex couples will immediately beforethecivil prisonforatleast10years. Keith Brown and the alleged 
malpartnershipceremonies. entercivilunionsinthefirstfour unionsvote. With scratches and bruises victims. 
Withcivilunions,thosecere-yearsthatregistration is avail-McKennapledgedtobefairin on his face from a crash in However,KimballThomson, 
monieswould comewitha cer-able,the WilliamsInstitute on herfuturerulings. which his Porsche plunged a spokesman for The 5 
tificatethat'svalidinotherstates Sexual Orientation Law and "Asanyjudge,webringtothe 300 feet into a canyon, Keith Browns, said the charges 
with civilunions orsame-sex Public Policyat UCLAestimated judiciaryourlifeexperiences, Brown, 55, entered his plea involve Brown's daughters 
marriage,dependingontheir lastJune. butwerule basedonthe evi­to three felony counts in and group members Desirae, 
locallaws.Fivestatesand the "A traditional weddingwould dence andthe law,and that's FourthDistrictCourt. 32,Deondra,30,andMelody, 
District of Columbia permit tendtobemarriage.Theuntra-whatI'vedonefor17yearsand "He is terribly remorseful 26. He declined to release 
same-sexmarriage. ditionalweddingwould tendto will continue todo whenseated for what has happened and further information on the 
Hawaii,known as oneofthe be on thebeachin paradise. ontheSupremeCourt,"said forwhathehasputhisfami-women. 
nation'spremierlocations for That'soneofthestrongadvan-McKenna,whowouldn't specifi­ly through," defense attorney The Associated Press does 
destinationweddingsandhoney-tagesofHawaii,"said theRev. callydiscusscivilunions. Steven Shapiro said after the not generally identify people hearing. "He recognizes that who say they were sexually this is the next step in the abused, but the Brown long road to trying to accept women have chosen to be 
responsibility for something identified and are cooperat­terrible that he did a long ing with police, Thomson 

Monday,y,February 21 
timeago." said. Dressed in dark slacks and Noneofthewomenwerein 

4:30–7:30pm 
a grey overcoat, Brown court on Thursday, but in a appeared in court with his statement issued to The AP sister-in-law by his side. He late Thursday, Kimball said showed few signs of the hor-the sisters were satisfied rific crash just three days withthepleaagreement. 


International 
earlier that police called an "The women were motivat­accident. ed to approach law enforce-His response to the judge ment out of concern for the when asked for his plea on welfare and protection of each charge was a barely otheryoungwomenandgirls. audible,"guilty." All three sisters are at peace Brown's three daughters with the agreement that has 




and two sons are part of the been reached in this case," classical piano group The 5 Kimball said in the state ­Browns, whose albums have ment. "While clearly the cur- topped the classical music rent events surrounding the charts and who have familyarepainful,thesisters 
appeared on "Oprah " and were well prepared for this 
other shows. The group also day, and are relieved and has been profiled by "60 grateful to close this chapter Minutes." 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies
intheirlives."   
Brown did not speak fur-KimballsaidtheBrownsis­ther during the hearing and ters appreciate the respect 
Wonderinghowtofndajobthatutilizesyourinternationalinterests
declined to answer questions shown to them by police and 
and experiences?
from reporters afterward. He prosecutors, who sought 
remained free until his sen-their input at each stage of Learn how to network and practice your new skills by talking to facultytencing on March 31, after the case. He said none of the 
and staff with global experiences.Get started on your own international 
prosecutors said they do not Brown siblings want to talk 
career and don’t miss the chance to join a dialogue on how to:
considerhimathreat. publiclyatthistime. Brown chose to enter the 
Thomson said the Brown Discover internationally themed opportunities,both abroad 
plea to bring a quick resolu-childrenseveredtheirprofes­
and domestic
tion to the case and did not sionalrelationshipwithKeith 
Gain contacts with professionals
want to "exacerbate the BrowninOctoberof2008.He harm" by dragging out the wasoncethemanagerofThe Learn practical steps on how to prepare yourself for the global 
proceedings,Shapirosaid. 5 Browns but now has no job market 
Utah County prosecutors connection,Thomsonsaid. charged Brown with one Court documents state the Refreshments will be provided. first-degree felony count of allegations stem from sepa­
sodomy on a child and two rate occasions between 
Tofndoutmoreinformationandregisterforthisevent,see—
second-degree felony counts November 1990 and October ofsexualabuseofachild. 1992, November 1990 and He could facea sentence of November 1992, and March 
kellogg.nd.edu/students/icn/index.shtml 
up to life in prison on the 1997 and March 1998 in first-degree felony and up to UtahCounty. 
Friday, February 18, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Lawmakers debate unions 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. — Faced with a near-certain Republican victory that would end a half-century of collective bargaining for public workers, Wisconsin Democrats retaliated with the only weapon they had left: They fled. 
Fourteen Democratic lawmak­ers disappeared from the Capitol on Thursday, just as the Senate was about to begin debating the measure aimed at easing the state’s budget crunch. 
By refusing to show up for a vote, the group brought the debate to a swift halt and hoped to pressure Republicans to the negotiating table. 
“The plan is to try and slow this down because it’s an extreme piece of legislation that’s tearing this state apart,” Sen. Jon Erpenbach said. 
The move drew cheers from tens of thousands of protesters 
— 
teachers, prison guards and others targeted by the proposal 

— 
who filled the Statehouse dur­ing the past three days. 


Republican Gov. Scott Walker, who took office just last month, has made the bill a top priority. He urged the group to return and called the boycott a “stunt.” 
“It’s more about theatrics than anything else,” Walker said, pre­dicting that the group would come back in a day or two, after realizing “they’re elected to do a job.” 
Walker said Democrats could still offer amendments to change the bill, but he vowed not to con­cede on his plan to end most col­lective bargaining rights. 

With 19 seats, Republicans hold a majority in the 33-mem­ber Senate, but they are one vote short of the number necessary to conduct business. So the GOP needs at least one Democrat to be present before any voting can take place. Once the measure is brought to the floor, it needs 17 votes to pass. 
Other lawmakers who fled sent messages over Twitter and issued written statements but did not disclose their location until hours later. 
Erpenbach said the group had been in Rockford, Ill., but they dispersed by late afternoon. 
In response to a question of where she was, Sen. Lena Taylor sent a tweet saying she was “doing the people’s business. Power to the PEOPLE.” 
Sen. Tim Cullen of Janesville said he was back in Wisconsin by Thursday night, but he did not expect Democrats to return to take up the bill until Saturday. 
As Republicans tried to begin Senate business around midday, observers in the gallery screamed “Freedom! Democracy! Unions!” Opponents cheered when a legislative leader announced there were not enough senators present to pro­ceed. 
The sergeant-at-arms immedi­ately began looking for the miss­ing lawmakers. If authorized, he can seek help from police. 
Senate rules and the state con­stitution say absent members can be compelled to appear, but it does not say how. 
“Today they checked out, and 

Is God calling you? Do you know? 
We heard the call and gave over our life in service to the Church and the world in a more explicit way. And our life has not been the same since. We have found purpose, joy, and fulfllment. Christ invited and we answered. 
Is God calling you to join us? Come and see. 
I’m not sure where they’re at,” Republican Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald said. “This is the ultimate shutdown, what we’re seeing today.” 
The Senate planned to try again Friday to convene. It was unclear when the state Assembly would conduct any business. 
Elsewhere, some Democrats applauded the developments in Wisconsin as a long-awaited sign that their party was fighting back against the Republican wave cre­ated by November’s midterm election. 
“I am glad to see some Democrats, for a change, with a backbone. I’m really proud to hear that they did that,” said Democratic state Sen. Judy Eason-McIntyre of Oklahoma, another state where Republicans won the governorship in November and also control both legislative chambers. 
Across the Wisconsin Statehouse, Democrats showed up in the Assembly chamber wearing orange T-shirts that proclaimed their support for working families. 
After a routine roll call, they exchanged high-fives with pro­testers, who cried “thank you” as the Democrats walked by. Protesters unleashed venomous boos and screams at Republicans. 
Thursday’s events were remi­niscent of a 2003 dispute in Texas, where Democrats twice fled the state to prevent adoption of a redistricting bill designed to give Republicans more seats in Congress. The bill passed a few months later. 



Feds outline Grand Canyon mining plan 
Associated Press 

ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — The U.S. Department of Interior has outlined four pro­posals to address mining around the Grand Canyon, including one that would ban any new claims on 1 million acres for 20 years. 
Interior Secretary Ken Salazar temporarily blocked new claims on the same land in 2009 while the department studied whether to set aside the acreage for a longer peri­od. 
“This process will help make a decision that recognizes the need for wise development of our energy resources, the importance of healthy lands and waters, and the voices of local communities, tribes, states and stakeholders,” Salazar said Thursday. 
More than 85,500 comments were considered in forming the alternatives, which include taking no action, setting aside the 1 million acres, and par­tially withdrawing either 300,000 or 650,000 acres from any new claims. The alternative that involves set­ting aside 1 million acres is identified as the “proposed action” in a draft environmen­tal study obtained by The Associated Press ahead of its scheduled Friday release. But Interior officials said they don’t prefer one proposal over the others. 
As many as 10,000 mining claims exist on federal land near the Grand Canyon for all types of hard-rock explo­ration. Some 1,100 uranium mining claims are miles from the park’s boundaries. 
Should any of the land be withdrawn, mining companies would need to prove they have valid existing rights to those claims before mining could occur. Only one company actively is mining in the area. Anywhere from 11 to 30 mines could be developed, according to the draft environ­mental study done by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. 
Arizona Congressman Raul Grijalva had advocated for a permanent withdrawal from new mining claims, but that was eliminated as a consider­ation in the study because the Interior secretary does not have the ability to segregate land for more than 20 years on more than 5,000 acres. Congress would be the appro­priate venue for such action, the BLM said. 
Grijalva said Congress is unlikely to act on the issue. 
“We would have wanted a withdrawal in perpetuity, not just 20 years (for) all those obvious points,” he said in an interview. “We still have some concerns about the explorato­ry efforts going on in the region.” 



We accept the Lords call to pledge ourselves publicly and perpetually as members of the Congregation of Holy Cross by the vows of consecrated celibacy, poverty and obedience. Great is the mystery and meaning within these vows. And yet their point is simple. They are an act of love for the God who frst loved us.
 Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross. V.43 
vocation.nd.edu 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, February 18, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

More content please 
I’ve got a beef with magazine adver­tisements. 
My best friend got me a subscription to Vanity Fair for my birthday. This seems to be a trend, because another friend got me a subscription to Cosmopolitan last year. Two maga­zines arrive in my little mailbox once a month, making me happy while I’m on the exercise bike at the Rock. 

When I got the 

Amanda Gray 
gigantic Hollywood Edition of Vanity 

Assistant
Fair last week, I 

News Editor
was ecstatic. It was huge! It took up all the space in my box, nearly an inch thick with glossy pages, bright pictures and sure-to-be scandalous articles. I popped it into my bag without opening it, deciding to head to the Rock and read while I worked out. I grabbed Cosmo, too, because the Lea Michele issue was sitting unread on my desk. 
I was downright insulted when I opened them up during my warm up. Starting with Cosmo, it took me 12 pages of advertisements before I hit the Contents page. Twelve! Flipping through the issue, I couldn’t help notic­ing how intrusive these ads were. The ads weren’t just traditional pages — a cardboard insert page had foundation samples in every skin tone and per­fume samples overpowering every­thing else poked out between the skanky articles. (You know that’s all anyone reads Cosmo for. Don’t lie.) 
After powering through Cosmo in 20 minutes, I switched to Vanity Fair. I was so excited, hoping this super-thick edition would be enough reading material left to get me through my workout. 
I should have stuck with Cosmo. 
The Contents page was on page 48. The second page of the Contents page was on page 62. Honestly, I don’t mind flipping through one or two pages of ads. I like looking at the new styles just as much as the next girl, and the ‘haute couture’ ads in magazines like Vanity Fair are always visually inter­esting, if not always applicable to real fashion sense. However, 48 pages of ads are not necessary at all. I know the journalism industry is fading quickly, but is it that bad? So much for expec­tations. I wanted page after page of Vanity Fair writing, which is known in the magazine industry to be some of the best long-form journalism out there. Don’t believe me? Check out the January issue — the Johnny Depp fea­ture will blow your mind. But I didn’t get this writing with the March issue. Out of the 352-page issue, I got 70, maybe 80 pages of content. That’s 23 percent content, 77 percent ads, adding up to 100 percent disgruntled reader. 
Consider this a plea, oh magazines of my mailbox: 
Cut down on the ads, and increase the content. Hundreds, if not thou­sands, of writers would love to touch pen to paper for you, filling those pages devoted to Clearasil and Rimmel London with compelling and interest­ing stories that readers will prefer much more when they’re sweating in the gym. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Election committee decision warrants explanation 
A campaign “ethics clause” violation that delayed the results of Monday’s student body election results did not, in all likelihood, change the final outcome of the entire process, which came to a close Thursday night with the announcement that junior Pat McCormick and sophomore Brett Rocheleau would serve as the next student body president and vice president, respectively. 
But the violation, and the process the Election Committee of Judicial Council used to determine its sanction demands a public explanation that has not been given — and likely won’t be at all. 
The facts of the case, as told to The Observer, are these: On Sunday night, student body president candidate James Ward, the current junior class president, sent an e-mail to a number of stu­dents in which he criticized the performance of this year’s student the Constitution does not expressly allow for this possibility, it does give the judicial committee complete control over sanctions. 
Perhaps these alternatives were considered but were deemed unsatisfactory or unfeasible — a decision we could understand, but one we believe must be shared and defended not behind the closed doors of a committee meeting, but in an open forum that can reach the entire student body. 
Regardless of the challenges and imperfections of these alter­natives, each proposal would have made at least some impact on the results of Monday’s election — something the Election Committee’s final decision completely and utterly failed to do. 
In considering and critiquing our proposed alternatives, we could debate the seriousness of the violation. But the Election 
government and accused current leaders of being 
Committee, by ruling that a violation transpired, “content to rest on their … laurels.” acknowledged that inappropriate behavior had On Monday morning, the day of the student occurred and an unfair advantage had been gained, body election, an allegation was filed against at least to some degree. It would be difficult in any Ward’s ticket, prompting a Monday night meeting case to accurately quantify the impact a violation of the Election Committee to address the allega-may have had on an election’s results, and this is tion. Meanwhile, the decision was made to seal especially true in this case because of the uncertainty the election results until the allegation was related to the number of students who received, and 
resolved, in order to avoid allowing the “knowledge of the results [to] influence the hearing process,” said Michael Thomas, judicial council vice president of elections. 
At its meeting Monday, the committee determined an “ethics clause” violation had occurred and decided on its sanction: to require Ward to submit an apology e-mail to Judicial Council by 
11:59 p.m. Monday that would then be distributed to the entire student body. Ward complied but also filed an appeal of the alle­gation, which he dropped Tuesday evening. The appeal would have given Student Senate the opportunity to review and, if nec­essary, revise the original sanction. 
But when the appeal was dropped, Senate was no longer required to meet. Ward’s apology e-mail and the original election results were distributed Tuesday night, setting up a Thursday runoff election between McCormick-Rocheleau and Ward and his running mate, Heather Eaton. Current student body president Catherine Soler and her running mate Emily LeStrange were eliminated from the ballot after receiving seven fewer votes than the Ward-Eaton ticket. 
The Observer’s Editorial Board acknowledges the difficulties the Election Committee must have faced in handling the allega­tion, and understands some of the complexities that may have been inherent to alternative solutions. Other solutions could have been eliminating the Ward-Eaton ticket from consideration alto­gether, or calling for a “do-over” election, which would allow the Soler-LeStrange ticket to proceed to a three-way runoff. While then cast votes as a result of, Ward’s e-mail Sunday night. 
We understand the sentiment behind the decision to keep the initial election results until the violation had been handled, but given the nature of the violation, the parties involved and, finally, the results of the Monday’s election, how can a rational, effective decision be made and sanction handed down without an attempt to consider how the violation may have affected the voting? Given the narrow gap between the Ward-Eaton and Soler-LeStrange tickets in the initial election (seven votes), and the fact that the violation stemmed from Ward’s criticism of a student government Soler currently leads, one must consider the strong possibility that the violation was the difference in determining which ticket advanced to a runoff with McCormick-Rocheleau. 
Would such a runoff have changed the final result? That is, of course, impossible to determine, but the sizable margin between McCormick-Rocheleau and Ward-Eaton in both Monday’s election (38 percent to 23 percent, to Soler-LeStrange’s 22 percent) and Thursday’s runoff (64 percent to 36 percent) suggests that the student body strongly made clear its choice for student govern­ment leadership. 
Some might argue that the election of McCormick and Rocheleau renders irrelevant any discussion of the violation and sanction. Instead, we urge next year’s student leaders to remem­ber all the events of this week, and to consider them significant evidence of a need for transparency in a student government McCormick and Rocheleau aim to redefine. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Love in different forms 
Based on what appears to be your own self-assuredness and apparent wisdom on related matters (“Acting for love,” Feb. 16), I ironically presume that you know nothing of what it feels like to be a self-identifying homosexual. It is precisely because of this that I strongly disagree with your statements on “hold­ing hands, caressing, kissing” and their casual evidence in today’s society. 
It is not because such intimate physical expressions mean nothing that I and people like me have long wished for the freedom and comfort to show our love publicly and without hesitation. Much to the contrary, it is because they may serve as a sensually powerful representation of one’s love for anoth­er that we hold them in such high esteem. And while you are quite right in sensing that we have felt “pangs” in our hearts at the sight of a straight couple in the midst of some display of affection, I feel you are again mistaken in asserting that any behavior not ordered towards marriage or its discernment is aimless. How shall straight persons at Notre Dame develop meaningful romantic relationships if the immediacy of ques­tions concerning marriage and its discernment take prece­dence over all other forms of casual dating? Such a disjunctive conception of sexual behavior supports a monochromatic atti­tude toward dating that may actually contribute to the “hook­up” culture you stand so strongly against. 
Additionally, I am aware of official Catholic teaching on homosexuality. To be concise about a complex issue, I dis­agree. The argument that one may be gifted a sexuality with some practical restrictions is one thing. To then say that anoth­er may be granted their own (“equally valued”) sexuality, one whose behavioral manifestation under any circumstances is sinful, is absurd and undermines any “teleology” you speak of. 
I am in a relationship, and though my boyfriend and I are not big on “PDA,” we have no doubts about the legitimacy of our love for each other, most especially in light of Church teaching. And, more importantly, I hope that this tired, uncharitable Christian hypocrisy shames fewer and fewer couples, gay or otherwise, into yet another file of spiritless obedience. 
Sam Costanzo 
junior O’Neill Hall Feb. 17 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

OBSERVER POLL 

“Justice consists not in being neutral between right and wrong, but in finding out the right and upholding it, wherever found, against the wrong.” 
Theodore Roosevelt 26th U.S. president 

The Observer 





Viewpoint 
Friday, February 18, 2011 page 11 
The personal pitfalls of Craigslist 
It is astounding how devastating and immediate the consequences can be from a misstep while Internet socializing. On the surface, banter could surely not harm one responding to a “woman seeking a man” ad posted Jan. 14 on Craigslist that asked why men all “look like toads.” Unfortunately, fero­cious forces fell upon a congressman who embellished his response: “Hope I’m not a toad. :) i’m a very fit fun classy Gary Caruso guy. Live in Cap Hill area. 6ft 190lbs Capitol blond/blue. 39 … Comments Lobbyist. I promise not to disappoint.” 

Former up-and-comer U.S. Representative Chris Lee (R-N.Y.), from a district in upstate New York stretching from Buffalo along Lake Ontario to Rochester, abruptly resigned from con­gress on the same day the gossip website Gawker published his flirtatious e-mails. Elected officials should be allowed a per­sonal life — even morally reprehensible ones — whenever such personal actions do not interfere with their official duties. It never halted the great stewardships of such presidents as Franklin Roosevelt, Dwight Eisenhower or John Kennedy. Attempted infidelity should not have forced the second-term congressman to resign simply because he shaved seven years off his age, lied about his career and marital status and sent a shirtless picture of him­self to a woman he met through Craigslist. 
Currently, U.S. Senators John Ensign of Nevada and David Vitter of Louisiana sit in congress despite their moral scandals — Ensign admitting an affair with a staff member and Vitter admitting the use of prostitution services in Washington. It should not matter that both are Republicans or espouse so-called conser­vative values like on Vitter’s website affirming that he is committed to “advanc­ing mainstream conservative principles” and further noting that both he and his wife are lectors at their hometown church. Private lives should remain distinct from public service so long as actions do not compromise public duties. 
Vitter sets a classic example for survival. Despite the scandal, Vitter won reelection by facing the charges head-on and apolo­gizing. Calling it a serious sin for which he was completely responsible, Vitter contin­ued, “Several years ago, I asked for and received forgiveness from God and my wife in confession and marriage counsel­ing.” Vitter continued, “Out of respect for my family, I will keep my discussion of the matter there — with God and them. But I certainly offer my deep and sincere apolo­gies to all I have disappointed and let down in any way.” 
Lee could have weathered his scandal when he opened, “I regret the harm that my actions have caused my family, my 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Revuepoint 
At approximately 5:30 a.m. on Saturday, Feb. 12, Fr. Doyle, Vice President of Student Affairs, made a telephone call to Keenan Hall’s rector, Fr. Dan Nolan. The Revue had to be changed. SAO had received too many complaints about the content of the show and decid­ed it was time to step in. To placate the unhappy, immediate action needed to be taken. Later that morning, the president of Keenan Hall, along with the producer and director of the Revue, met with SAO representatives to discuss the content of the show. 
What happened next bordered on the absurd. SAO’s path of destruction left little in its wake, leaving only five out of the original 29 skits untouched. Seven skits had to be cut out­right, while numerous others had key jokes, key characters or key lines removed. Seemingly little regard was held for the reputation of the Revue to make key commentaries on campus issues. A critique on the strong conservative stance of the Irish Rover? Cut. DTGTQHJ? Cut. (If you were there Thursday or Friday, you know what it means). A tame song about Jimmy’s love for Golden? Cut. Solely because it contained the name Jimmy Clausen. Think about that for a second. Maybe a skit about inappropriate evening attire? Cut. A parody of the “What are you fighting for?” commercials? Cut. An inoffensive skit about what someone wouldn’t want a pilot to say? Cut. 
In one fell swoop, SAO had changed an event known for pushing the Notre Dame bound­aries of sensibility (and wide boundaries, those are not) into a bland, uninspiring comedy show. Staff members and performers were outraged. Months of hard work and countless (ok, maybe not countless) hours were instantly perceived as wasted. Many wanted to cancel the show outright, too angry to want to perform a show when what remained were only fragments of the original, woven together piecemeal into a tame collection of subpar come­dy. The integrity of the Revue was ruined. Nobody wanted to play by the rules of SAO. Several performers relinquished their roles. Skits were changed on the fly, bits of other skits interspersed in between to save jokes. It was then approximately 5:30 p.m., and we still had not decided whether the show would go on. 
As a group, we finally decided that what remained of the show would be performed. We could let the audience know what happened, but damned if we were going to totally disap­point 1,300 audience members, especially when many of them consisted of families of the performers and staff. To each of us, bending to SAO’s will was reprehensible, but to aban­don the audience, our fans, without even giving them a taste of the potential of the show, would be infinitely worse. 
So we performed, doing the best we could. Cast members read scripts onstage, both off of cell phones and paper scraps. The stage crew adapted to the new set list. Luckily, the Revue band held together the show with another great performance. But the mood was not a happy one, even at the end of the show when anger slowly faded into apathy, the whole show feeling slightly like a chore. But we did the best we could. If you went Thursday or Friday, we really hope you enjoyed the 2011 Keenan Revue. If you went Saturday, we can only hope you enjoyed SAO’s Revue, performed by Keenan residents. We only wish that you know that you missed what we truly thought was a great performance and that if you don’t want to miss it again in the future, please let the administration know. We joke about the demise of the Dillon Hall Pep Rally, but Saturday was the Keenan Hall Pep Rally, and we despised it. So please, remind the administration that the Revue is not just a lewd comedy show tailored to college kids. It is a reflection of and commentary on the subtleties of the Notre Dame life, both good and bad. It truly tries to represent the Notre Dame student pop­ulation as a whole and to stifle the Revue is to stifle us, the students. Thank you. 
Fratres in Christo. 
The Keenan Revue Staff 

Zak Kapopoulos, Chase Riddle and Grayson Duren 
juniors 
Keenan Hall 
Feb. 17 

staff and my constituents. I deeply and sin­cerely apologize to them all. I have made profound mistakes, and I promise to work as hard as I can to seek their forgiveness.” However, Lee threw in the towel with his quick resignation when he concluded, “The challenges we face in Western New York and across the country are too seri­ous for me to allow this distraction to con­tinue, and so I am announcing that I have resigned my seat in Congress effective immediately.” 
Our governmental system judges and potentially term limits congressional rep­resentatives every two years. An upset public can voice its displeasure at the bal­lot box each election cycle. Lee should have made his mea culpa and fought for forgiveness. He portrayed the type of working political philosophy the GOP con­tinually purges in primaries. While identi­fying as a conservative, Lee stood outside of the typical GOP cookie-cutter stereo­type. He voted with Democrats on several measures like the expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, compensation for 9/11 responders, the reauthorization of the America Competes Act and the overhaul of our nation’s food safety system. 
Legislatively, Lee outflanked the Democratic congressmen from his neigh­boring districts by obtaining $29.7 million in federal earmark funds, a mortal sin to Tea Party activists. From his perspective as a former executive of his family’s manu­facturing business, Lee explained that ear­marks can help promote job growth through such projects as high-speed rail, another program the GOP targets to elimi­nate. Further, in the wake of Representative Gabrielle Giffords’ shooting in Tucson, Lee reasonably stood up against powerful gun lobbyists by saying, “We need to look at ... ensuring there are suffi­cient background checks to make sure that those who are unstable don’t have access to weapons of that nature.” 
It is uncertain if GOP Speaker John Boehner encouraged Lee to step aside before he said Lee “made the right deci­sion for himself and for his family” by resigning. So much in the GOP leadership is now calculated to maintain party control rather than allow members to follow their personal district interests. Ironies lie in just that outlook — GOP leaders limit pro­fessional personal outreach across party lines and private personal outreach across the Internet. Such a puritanical approach prevented Lee from waging a capable, interesting comeback fight he could have won. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


What true freedom is 
I often read Viewpoint articles that make me feel the need to respond with a letter of my own. Laziness and a generally laid back attitude usually stay my hand before I even begin. However, after reading the Viewpoint titled (“Consequences of Repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” Feb. 15), I felt an overwhelm­ing need to express my profound objections at the views expressed in said article. 
First, I would like to point out that it was not President Obama who created this legislation, but it was the Senate, which represents the majority of the population, who voted in an overwhelming majority to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. Now let me continue on to the heart of the subject: the danger that we will be putting our military men and women in. 
Allow me to list some decisions made in recent years that turned out to be far more dangerous for our men and women in the military than allowing homosexu­als to be outwardly homosexual: 1) Sending them to Iraq in the Gulf War; 2) Sending them to Afghanistan in the War on Terror; 3) Sending them to Iraq again in the War for Iraqi Freedom. The fact of the matter is, the military is a danger­ous business to be in. Are we really going to claim that knowledge of a person’s sexual orientation will put somebody in more danger than the guns firing on the other side of line? In fact, one of the most famously successful armies in the histo­ry of the world was also known for being composed mainly of bisexual men (I am referring to the army of Sparta, for those who may not have heard the rumors). 
I must also remind readers that it was not so long ago that it was also thought that African Americans would put their unit in more danger because they too would cause disunity. Even more recently, women were considered to be this “dangerous” problem in the military. The point is, there is no additional danger added from these groups of people. Gay people are not animals — they will no sooner “go after people” in the shower than you or I would; in fact, from what I understand homosexual people tend not to find straight people attractive in the first place. Fraternization is forbidden in the military anyway; therefore it should not be an issue whether a person is attracted to men, women, nobody or every­body. No — there is no additional danger. This “danger” is simply another mask for the deep-seeded hate of that which is not understood. I have friends who are in the military who could care less about whether others in their unit are homo­sexual or straight. I also have friends in the army who are disgusted with the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and I have found that it is not a fear of detraction from missions but rather a dislike for those who are different from themselves. Let’s call this what it is — it is just another issue in which people cannot accept those who lead a different lifestyle. 
This is simply the battle for civil liberties hidden in a new disguise. The more discrimination that people of non-heterosexual orientation face, the more of a disservice we do to the very people we are trying to protect. The men and women of the United States military risk their lives to protect civil liberties. If it is truly a distraction to them that the person risking their life next to them may be gay, then they don’t really represent the discipline or the idea of freedom that the United States military is supposed to. Mr. Falvey suggests that this diversity is not worth fighting for or dying for. I must say that there is nothing more worth shed­ding blood for than a person’s civil rights. It is what this country was founded on, and what we still claim to be based on today. America’s children — all of her chil­dren — cease to truly be American the minute we forget what freedom truly is. 
Jim Ropa 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 16 
The Observer 




Scene
page 12 Friday, February 18, 2011 

By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Editor 

Believe it or not, an Observer comic strip can be memorable — and long-running. 
Michael Molinelli’s “Molarity” (a chemistry term, but also a play on the combination of his name and “hilarity”) ran for five years in the 1970s and the 1980s. Molinelli said when he started freshman year in 1977, he was surprised that the campus newspaper didn’t have any student-created comics. 
“There was nothing in the paper, and I had grown up reading ‘Doonesbury,’ and I just assumed every college had a comic strip, and if it didn’t I’d give it a try,” he said. 
The strip was mostly used to fill in gaps, and Molinelli said it wasn’t until a managing editor, Steve Odland — now the CEO of Office Depot — advocated for the comic that “Molarity” began appearing five days a week. 
That kind of regularity gave Molinelli the chance to stretch out storylines and develop a core group of characters surrounding his Jim Mole, the cam­pus everyman. 
“It was a great opportunity and I wasn’t going to miss it. I never had writer’s block,” he said. “I was prolific enough that I really wasn’t always striving for ideas — I was striving to get better ones.” 
Molinelli got paid $2 a strip, which he said became his pocket money during the school year. 
Molinelli even kept up with the daily cartoons during the year he spent in Rome as part of the architecture program. Because it was 1979 and 

mail was the only way to get the comic back to Indiana, he said he would run over to the Vatican to send out the strips because the Holy See had a much more secure postal system than the Italian mail. 
The strip was tremendously popular, even after its five-year run. In the early 1980s, three volumes of the comic were stocked in the university’s book­store, selling between 4,000 and 5,000 copies a piece, according to Notre Dame Magazine. 
Though he had an internship in the art depart­ment of the Cincinnati Enquirer after graduation and later won several New York Press Association awards for political cartoons, Molinelli said car­tooning never became a way to make a living, though not for lack of trying on his part. 
“It’s harder to please an editor individually than it is to please a larger group of people,” he said. 
“It’s a lot like show business or publishing. You produce, you send it out there and people tell you why it won’t be a success … the usual stuff I got was, ‘your stuff is too intellectual for people who read newspapers.’” 
After a summer at the Enquirer, Molinelli started work at an architectural firm and has stayed on that track since. He now has his own firm in his hometown of Briar Cliff, N.Y., where he lives with his wife and three young children. The kids have seen “Molarity” and have started to draw on their own. 
“Each of them has some talent in that regard, and my hope is when they go to college that Notre Dame will start offering cartooning scholarships,” he joked. 
Molinelli has since revisited his characters in “Molarity Redux” for Notre Dame Magazine’s web­site, with Jim Mole and the gang grown up and now back at Notre Dame as professors or coaches. The production schedule is a lot less hectic — he only submits about one a month, not five a week. Molinelli also uses Adobe Photoshop to color the images, though he still draws out the first draft by hand, just like he did as an undergraduate. 
“I think why I like to draw the panels and then compose the strip in Photoshop is that I do all my architecture on computer — both drafting and 3-D modeling, so the chance to put a real pen to paper is refreshing and cathartic,” he said. 
Occasionally Molinelli will run into alumni who will recognize his name and almost immediately ask, “Are you that guy who did the comic strip?” 
“It is very cool to be engraved in people’s brains like that,” he said. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 




Scene
Friday, February 18, 2011 page 13 

page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 18, 2011 
MLB 


Tigers star Cabrera arrested on DUI charges 
Associated Press 
LAKELAND, Fla. (AP) — Detroit Tigers star Miguel Cabrera was arrested late Wednesday on sus­picion of drunken driving in Florida, leaving teammates stunned and concerned about the slugging first baseman less than a week into spring training. 
The 27-year-old Cabrera has struggled with drinking-related problems in the past, but he’s coming off perhaps his best sea­son. He hit .328 with 38 home runs last year and finished second in the American League MVP vote. 
Cabrera was spotted by a deputy in a car with a smoking engine alongside a road in Fort Pierce. Inside the vehicle, Cabrera smelled of alcohol, had slurred speech and took a swig from a bottle of scotch in front of a deputy, according to the St. Lucie County Sheriff’s Office. He refused to cooperate and more deputies were called to the scene. 
The arrest occurred about 110 miles southeast of Lakeland, where the Tigers hold spring training. Pitchers and catchers began workouts earlier this week, but position players don’t start until Saturday. 

“It was obviously a shock to everybody,” catcher Alex Avila said. 
Cabrera is “very embarrassed” and plans to apologize to his teammates and the Tigers organi­zation when he reports to camp Saturday, a person familiar with the situation told The Associated Press. The person said he talked to Cabrera after the slugger was released from jail, then spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to publicly discuss the incident. 
General manager Dave Dombrowski said Thursday after­noon he’d spoken briefly to Cabrera. Dombrowski has also been in touch with the commis­sioner’s office. 
Detroit’s position players are supposed to report Friday for Saturday’s workout. 
“He would love to be here (Friday), but we still need to work through some of this,” Dombrowski said. “We fully sup­port him trying to get help for his situation. You do that for anybody you know, if it was an employee, a friend, whatever it may be.” 
According to the police report, Cabrera was wandering into the road with his hands up before he was handcuffed. He kept saying, “Do you know who I am? You don’t know anything about my problems,” and cursed at deputies who tried to get him into a patrol car. 
One deputy struck Cabrera in the left thigh several times with his knee after Cabrera pushed into him, causing the ballplayer to fall into the patrol car. Cabrera refused to take a breath test, deputies said. 
He was arrested on misde­meanor charges of driving under the influence of alcohol and resisting an officer without vio­lence. He posted $1,350 bond and was released from jail at 7:45 
a.m. Thursday. 

“It’s hard,” said second base­man Carlos Guillen, who is in camp recovering from an injury. “He’s a really good friend. I know he was working hard in the win­ter to have a good season this year.” 
The news was slow to reach the Tigers’ spring training complex, but Guillen, who like Cabrera is from Venezuela, was shaken when he found out. 
“I worry about him,” Guillen said. 
Manager Jim Leyland declined to discuss Cabrera’s situation. 
When asked if Cabrera might have to spend time away from the team for counseling, Dombrowski said he didn’t know. 
“Those are in experts’ hands,” he said. “There’s people that are experts in these areas, doctors that handle these types of situa­tions. The commissioner’s office and players’ association work very closely together in trying to help these types of situations. Their knowledge far exceeds mine.” 
Late in the 2009 season, police said Cabrera got into a fight with his wife after a night of drinking, shortly before his team lost a key game. The Tigers then lost an AL Central tiebreaker to Minnesota. 
Dombrowski had to pick up Cabrera at the station after that incident. No charges were filed. 
Avila trained with Cabrera this offseason, and the two are close. 
“As hard as we work in this game, and everybody wants to win, there’s obviously things that are more important in life. ... 
That’s one thing that I know Miguel knows — that he has a family here,” Avila said. “Millions of people have problems with alcohol throughout the entire world. It’s not something that can’t be overcome. It’s something that can be overcome, but you need a lot of help.” 
During spring training last year, Cabrera said he was done drink­ing alcohol after he spent much of the offseason in counseling. 
“You guys write in the paper ‘alcoholic,’ that’s not right,” he said last March before a spring training workout. “I don’t know how to explain, but it’s not an alcohol problem.” 
Cabrera has a home in Boca Raton, about 75 miles south of Fort Pierce. There was no phone listing for him. 
Detroit went 81-81 last season but is hoping to make a run at the AL Central title after adding Victor Martinez to hit in the mid­dle of the lineup with Cabrera. For a team that entered spring training full of optimism, the news Thursday was jarring. 
“When you hear something like this, you don’t really think about the baseball part,” Avila said. 
NBA 


Prokhorov, Nets not interested in trade for Anthony 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — New Jersey Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov has not changed his mind about the franchise’s pursuit of Carmelo Anthony. 
The Russian told team execu­tives last month to end drawn-out trade talks for the Denver Nuggets All-Star forward and nothing has changed with the NBA trading deadline a week away, his spokeswoman said Thursday. 
There were reports on Wednesday that the Nets and Nuggets had renewed talks about a deal for Anthony. However, Prokhorov spokes­woman Ellen Pinchuk said in an e-mail that the billionaire maintains his stance, despite the reports. 
“Mikhail has not changed his mind,” Pinchuk wrote. 
When asked if that meant Prokhorov does not want the Nets to reopen talks with Denver at this point, the spokeswoman said: 
“What I said is what I said,” she insisted. “Not what you said.” 

Prokhorov stunned NBA fol­lowers last month during a visit to New Jersey when he told the team to end trade talks for Anthony just a day before he was to have a sitdown with the player. At the time Prokhorov said the much ballyhooed, 15­player, three-team deal that also involved the Detroit Pistons had become too become too expensive. The negotiations had also become too public and the constant rumors were hurt­ing his team. 
Prokhorov also said at the time there was no chance the talks would be resurrected. 
A league official with knowl­edge of the Nets told The Associated Press on Thursday that Denver recently contacted New Jersey to see if there would be any interest in acquiring Anthony, who can become a free agent at the end of the season. The official asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak for the Nets. 
The Nets and Knicks have been mentioned as the most likely future home for Anthony, should he be traded. And Anthony has been quoted sev­eral times that he would love to play for the Knicks. 
But the Nets might have more to offer the Nuggets. Rookie power forward Derrick Favors, the No. 3 pick in the draft, has tremendous upside as a 19­year-old. His first season has not been overly impressive because of foul problems and a general learning curve. New Jersey also has five first-round draft picks over the next two years to offer. 
Prokhorov and Nets general manager Billy King are expect­ed to be in Los Angeles for the All-Star game this weekend, and Prokhorov might get a chance to say hello this time to Anthony. Of course, any trade to New Jersey would be contin­gent on Anthony signing a $65 million contract extension that’s been on the table since June. 
Anthony also would have to know that coming to New Jersey probably would end his playoff hopes. The Nets have a 17-40 mark entering the break and are 8½ games out of a playoff berth with 25 left. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
4BR 4 BA home UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? And just... 1 mile north of campusFOR SALE for rent for football, graduation and NOTICES Don't go it alone. PERSONAL Let her cry..if the tears fall down like 
other ND weekends. rain GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT 574-286-0081 or If you or someone you care about Notre Dame has many resources in MENTOR NEEDED: RENTAL: bpblauvelt@comcast.net place to assist you. 17 year old male diagnosed Let her sing...if it eases all her pain House for rent for ——————————————— has been sexually assaulted, we w/epilepsy. graduation/JPW/weddings,football, OFF-CAMPUS Housing. If you or someone you love needs Let her go...let her walk right out on etc. can help. confidential support or assistance, Has a difficult time relating to peers me Perfect location-right next to the Best luxury options at Dublin please call Sr. Sue Dunn at and is looking for guidance from new Village, Irish Crossings, Oak Hill For more information, 1-7819. someone who has experienced this And if the sun comes up tomorrow Eddy Street Commons-walk to and North Shore Club. condition. everything-safe family oriented CES Property Management. visit Notre Dames website: For more information, visit ND's Let her be...let her be. street. Email nd-house@sbcglob-Call 574-298-4206, website at: Contact Donna (mom) @ al.net for additional info and photos www.cespm.info http://csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Williams.306@nd.edu. -Hootie and the Blowfsh ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Friday, February 18, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
NHL 

Datsyuk scores two in big Red Wings win 
Rask stops 34 shots to lead Boston over New York; Predators move into fourth place in conference with win 
Detroit. the first. Detroit is 24-2-4
Associated Press 

After wasting a two-goal when scoring the game's first 
TAMPA, Fla. — Pavel lead, the Red Wings rebound-goal. Datsyuk scored twice, Danny ed on second-period goals by Lidstrom had two assists, Cleary had a goal and two Kronwall (16:34), on the giving him four in his last 12 assists and the Detroit Red power play, and Abdelkader games. Wings beat the Tampa Bay (18:00) for 4-2 advantage. Datsyuk made it 2-0 with Lightning 6-2 on Thursday Datsyuk extended the lead 5:03 left in the first. The cen­night. to 5-2 on his second goal of ter has eight goals and 16 
Niklas Kronwall, Justin the game, at 11:49 of the points in his last 13 games. Abdelkader and Darren Helm third. An octopus — a tradi-Jimmy Howard stopped all also scored for the Red tion at Detroit's Joe Louis six shots he faced, including Wings, who have won three Arena — was thrown onto the an in-close backhander by in a row and seven of 11. ice after the goal. Downie, during a 4-minute 
Tampa Bay got goals from Helm added a breakaway Tampa Bay power play mid-Victor Hedman and Steve goal with 1:50 remaining. way through the first. Downie. The Lightning are 5-Hedman got the Lightning Tampa Bay right wing 3-1 during a 12-game homes-within 2-1 on his first goal in Martin St. Louis had an tand. 32 games at 11:51 of the sec-assist. He has no goals and 
It was the first time that ond. Downie tied it with 5:22 three assists in 15 games new Lightning general man-to go in the period. against Detroit. ager Steve Yzerman faced his Cleary put the Red Wings old team. He played 22 sea-up 1-0 on a deflection of Bruins 6, Islanders 3 sons before spending five Nicklas Lidstrom's shot dur-Tuukka Rask stopped 34 more as a vice president with ing a power play 6:40 into shots and six Bruins scored 
as Boston snapped a three-game losing streak with a victory against the New York Islanders on Thursday night. 9:04 to make it 3-0. power-play goal for the 
Blake Wheeler, Mark The Bruins’ dominance con-Canucks, who were playing Recchi, Gregory Campbell, tinued in the second as Krejci their third game in four David Krejci, Tyler Seguin scored on wrist shot 55 sec-nights. Kevin Bieksa was a and Milan Lucic scored for onds in. scratch due to a broken bone the Bruins. Tavares got New York on in his left foot, their sixth 
New York’s four-game win-the board 55 seconds later, defensemen out due to injury. ning streak came to a halt. wristing a shot past Rask. All the injuries and a couple John Tavares scored twice to Seguin rebuilt the four-goal of rookie replacements had give him 23 goals on the sea-lead, putting the puck into an defenseman Christian Ehrhoff son and Josh Bailey also had open net at 2:48. That ended on the ice for a game-high 27 a goal for the Islanders. Lawson’s night. minutes, 13 seconds. Rookie Michael Grabner had Bailey made it 5-2 on a Vancouver had its chances, his six -game goal streak quick wrister at 5:36, but outshooting Nashville 36-26. snapped. Lucic connected on a rebound But goalie Pekka Rinne 
Nathan Lawson started in for a power-play goal at 7:17. stopped 35 shots and net for the Islanders and Tavares scored again at improved to 15-2-1 when his stopped 13 of 18 shots before 12:57 of the final period. teammates score at least Al Montoya came off the three goals. bench to finish with 15 saves. Predators 3, Canucks 1 The Predators had two 
The Bruins started a six-Nick Spaling and Mike players hit by pucks before game road trip that will take Fisher scored 49 seconds they scored. them to Western Canada and apart in the second period, Fisher played only 3:12 of include two trips to Ottawa. and the Nashville Predators the first after taking a puck 
Against the Islanders, the beat the Vancouver Canucks to his right cheek almost mid-first period belonged to Thursday night for their third way through the period. He Boston. The Bruins outshot victory in four games. went directly to the dressing New York 15-4 and took a 3-0 Martin Erat had a goal and room for stitches but lead. an assist, and Fisher's goal returned. Steve Sullivan, 
Wheeler picked up his ninth was his first since he was however, didn't return after goal 1:52 into the game on a traded to Nashville a week taking a puck to his face late sharp-angle shot. ago. The Predators began the in the second. 
The Bruins struck again at night tied with four other David Legwand tried to 
7:03 when the puck deflected teams for fourth place in the pass to Sullivan in the left in off Recchi’s skate and the Western Conference. circle for a shot, but the puck goal withstood a review. It Nashville evened the season deflected off a stick and into was Recchi ’s 574th goal, series at a game apiece. Sullivan's face. He dropped moving him into 19th place Vancouver, which leads the immediately to the ice where on the NHL’s career list. West, remained the NHL's top he was tended to before slow­
Campbell’s point shot went team with 83 points. ly skating off. 
in off an Islanders player at Daniel Sedin scored a Erat put the Predators up 1-0 when he scored his 10th off the rebound of his own shot from the slot with a wrister past Roberto Luongo at 14:13. Nashville was called for too many men on the ice, and Sedin scored with a wris­ter from the right circle off an assist from his brother Henrik 28 seconds later for a rare goal against the NHL's best penalty killers on home ice. 

That just fired up the Predators. 
Patric Hornqvist corralled the puck near the boards off the faceoff and fired the puck at the net where Spaling backhanded it past Luongo to put Nashville back up 7 sec­onds later. Then Fisher, with stitches on his right cheek, tipped in Alexander Sulzer's slap shot for a 3-1 lead at 
19:11 of the second. 

With the two -goal lead, Rinne just deflected shot after shot in the third to pre­serve the victory. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2011 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
DePaul ends Big East losing streak with win 
Weathers powers Troy over Middle Tennessee; Belmont clinches share of Atlantic Sun regular-season title 
each to lead ETSU. onds left, Williams sealed it with 
Associated Press 

a steal and four free throws in 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — DePaul’s Louisiana (Laf.) 64, ASU 61 the final 25 seconds. 24-game losing streak in Big J.J. Thomas scored 20 points East play ended Thursday night and Louisiana-Lafayette turned Quinnipiac 80, Bryant 60 with a 79-76 victory over back a furious Arkansas State James Johnson scored 24 Providence. rally for a victory, its eighth points on seven 3-pointers and 
Jeremiah Kelly scored a straight, Thursday night. Justin Rutty added 16 points career-high 23 points to lead The Ragin’ Cajuns (11-14, 8-5 and 10 rebounds to lead the Blue Demons to their first Sun Belt Conference) built an Quinnipiac over Bryant 80-60 conference victory since they 11-point halftime lead and on Thursday night. defeated Marquette more than a increased it to 14 points before The Bobcats (18-8, 10-5 year ago and their first road the Red Wolves (14-14, 8-5) Northeast Conference) convert-victory since they topped came back. ed 14 of 18 two-point shot Cincinnati on March 6, 2008. Arkansas State led by one attempts in the opening half and 
Cleveland Melvin scored 20 point twice in the 10th minute led 42-34 at the break. for DePaul (7-18, 1-12 Big East) of the second and the score was Quinnipiac shot 7 of 11 from 3­and Brandon Young put up 17 tied twice thereafter, at 44 and point range (63.6 percent) in the points, including 15 in the sec-58, before Raymone Andrews second half, extending its lead ond half. put Louisiana-Lafayette ahead to as many as 25 points. 
After the Blue Demons built a for good on two free throws Deontay Twyman added 13 10-point halftime lead, with 45 seconds left. points for the Bobcats, while Providence (14-12, 3-10 Big Donald Boone missed two 3-Rutty notched his 38th career East) slowly came back, eventu-pointers in the final 25 seconds double-double — the most in ally tying the score at 58. for the Red Wolves. Thomas Quinnipiac's Division I history. 
DePaul put together a quick made two free throws with 6 Alex Francis led the Bulldogs seven-point spurt to regain con-seconds left as the Ragin' (9-18, 7-8) with 17 points and trol, and the Friars were unable Cajuns avenged a 74-65 loss in nine rebounds. Cecil Gresham to come back. Marshon Brooks Jonesboro, Ark., on Jan. 13. scored 11 and Frankie Dobbs led Providence with 28 points, La’Ryan Gary had 14 points and Vlad Kondratyev each 15 of their past 16, including an left. including 10 of his team’s final for the Ragin' Cajuns while scored 10 for Bryant, which 84-54 rout of the Seahawks on Latif Rivers led Wagner (13­
12. Duke Mondy added 17 Travis Bureau had 12 rebounds. shot 52.4 percent from the free-Jan. 15. 13, 9-6) with 18 points. points and seven rebounds. Rashad Allison led Arkansas throw line (11 of 21). David Hicks led Long Island State with 26 points. The Bobcats, who have won with 21 points and Julian Boyd Southern Utah 80, IUPUI 68 Troy 69, Middle Tenn. 65 six of their last seven games, had 15 points and 12 rebounds. Jake Nielson scored 15 points 
Will Weathers scored 15 Lipscomb 71, SC Upstate 62 outrebounded Bryant 38-26. With the Blackbirds ahead 64-to lead five Southern Utah play-points and Troy scored the final Brandon Barnes scored 14 57 with 5:30 to go in regulation, ers in double figures and the four points of overtime to take a points and Josh Slater added 10 LIU 83, Wagner 79 Wagner used an 11-3 run to Thunderbirds came back to victory over Middle Tennessee points and 12 assists as Kyle Johnson scored six of his lead by one with 55 seconds beat IUPUI on Thursday night. on Thursday night. Lipscomb defeated South 17 points in overtime, including left. IUPUI (16-12, 10-5 Summit) 
The Trojans (8-17, 6-7 Sun Carolina-Upstate on Thursday the go-ahead layup and four Long Island answered with had won nine of the last 10 Belt Conference) have won four night. clinching free throws, as Long four free throws, then Chris meetings between the schools, of five games and broke Middle The Bisons (16-10, 11-6 Island University outlasted Martin's 3-pointer with 4 sec-including an 87-61 rout at Tennessee’s five-game winning Atlantic Sun Conference) trailed Wagner Thursday night. onds to go forced OT. Southern Utah on Jan. 22. On streak. 19-18 with 6:43 left in the open-The Northeast Conference-After Naofall Folahan's layup Thursday, IUPUI opened up a 
Steven Cunningham’s free ing half before going on a 16-2 leading Blackbirds (21-5, 13-2) and dunk gave the Seahawks a 40-24 lead, but Southern Utah throw gave Troy a 66-65 lead run, capped by a Jordan extended their winning streak 75-72 lead, Hicks hit a 3, then scored the last four points of the with 3:06 left in OT. The Blue Burgason 3-pointer, to take a to seven games and have won Johnson scored with 1 minute first half. Raiders (14-13, 9-5) missed four 34-21 lead with just over a shots from the field before minute left to play. Levan Patsatsia’s layup gave Lipscomb led 53-44 with 8:34 Troy a 68-65 lead with 29 sec-remaining and scored nine onds left. straight points to increase its 
Weathers added a free throw lead to 62-44 with 7:01 to go. for the final margin as Middle Burgason and Adnan Hodzic Tennessee went 0 for 9 from the each added 11 points for the field, including 0 for 5 from 3-Bisons, who shot 56.3 percent point range, in overtime. from the floor (27 of 48), includ-
Vernon Taylor added 13 ing 50 percent from 3-point points and Patsatsia and Regis range (9 of 18). Huddleston added 10 points Ricardo Glenn and Torrey each for Troy. Craig each had nine points and 
Jason Jones had 21 points, six rebounds for the Spartans Trevor Ottley had 16 points and (4-23, 3-14), who have lost four 12 rebounds, J.T. Sulton scored straight and 17 of their past 19. 12 and James Gallman 11 for The Bisons outrebounded USC the Blue Raiders. Upstate 37-27. 
Belmont 68, ETSU 58 Western Carolina 80, 
Ian Clark scored 18 points Appalachian State 75 and Belmont clinched at least a Brandon Boggs, Mike Williams share of the Atlantic Sun and Richie Gordon combined for Conference regular-season title 59 points as Western Carolina with a victory over East defeated Appalachian State Tennessee State on Thursday Thursday night. night. Boggs and Williams each 
Scott Saunders added 10 scored 20 points and Gordon points and eight rebounds for added 19 as the Catamounts the Bruins (24-4, 16-1), who (14-13, 10-5 Southern have won six consecutive games Conference) won their fifth in a and also secured the No. 1 seed row and their sixth in seven for the conference tournament games. by sweeping the second-place The Mountaineers (12-14, 8­Buccaneers (19-10, 14-4) this 8) got 30 points from Donald season. Sims and shot 54 percent from 
ETSU led by as many as nine the field (27 of 50), but hurt points in the first half and 31-24 themselves with 20 turnovers at halftime, but Belmont took a that led to 32 Western Carolina 40-38 lead with a 16-4 run and points. Andre Williamson added outscored the Buccaneers 44-27 16 points and Omar Carter in the second half. tossed in 14, but the 
Belmont outrebounded ETSU Mountaineers’ four-game win­44-28 and committed only three ning streak ended. second-half turnovers (13 total) The lead changed hands 20 to offset shooting a season-low times, the final time coming on 
32.7 percent from field (17 of Boggs' 3-pointer with 1:24 left. 
52) in the game. That made it 75-72, and though 
Justin Tubbs, Mike Smith and Sims brought the Mountaineers Isiah Brown scored 14 points within one, 76-75, with 28 sec-


Friday, February 18, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Utley chases turnaround after subpar campaign 
Associated Press 
CLEARWATER, Fla. — Chase Utley cemented his reputation for being a hard worker long ago. 
First to arrive at the ball­park. Last to leave. Whether it’s spring training or the regu­lar season, that’s Utley’s way. It’s helped him become a five-time All-Star second baseman and the centerpiece of the Philadelphia Phillies’ offense as the No. 3 hitter. 
But numbers don’t lie, and Utley’s production has slipped in recent years. Injuries have been a problem. That’s an excuse, though. 
“I can always improve,” Utley said Thursday. 
Utley’s average has dropped each year since he hit a career-best .332 in 2007. He went down 40 points to .292 in ‘08. He batted .282 in ‘09 and .275 last year. From 2005­2009, Utley averaged 29 homers and 101 RBIs. He hit just 16 homers and had 65 RBIs last season when a thumb injury forced him to miss 47 games. 
Even before he got hurt last June, Utley was struggling. He was batting .277 with 11 homers and 37 RBIs in 72 games — far below his usual output. At a similar point in ‘09, he had a .304 average, 17 homers and 52 RBIs. Over the first 72 games in ‘08, Utley hit .303 with 22 homers and 62 RBIs. 

“Baseball is a game of fail­ure and good players learn how to deal with that failure and not let it affect them,” Utley said. “This year is no dif­ferent. I’m going to try to improve on years past and go from there.” 
Utley wasn’t the only offen­sive star who slumped last year. Every regular except catcher Carlos Ruiz had a sta­tistical decline. 
The four-time NL East cham­pion Phillies used to rely on a potent offense to win games. Now pitching is clearly their strength. 
“We’re better than we showed last year. Hopefully guys worked hard this offsea­son which it looks like they did and we’re ready to go,” Utley said. “Our pitching staff is pretty strong. It’s a good back­bone. We need to continue to work hard and play our game and win.” 
As usual, Utley showed up early to spring training. He said he added 10 pounds to his frame from the end of last sea­son. But maintaining that weight throughout the year has always been an issue for the hard-nosed, gritty Utley. He’s a career .265 hitter in August and .272 in September. He’s hit at least .290 in every other month. That’s an indica­tion that he wears down physi­cally over the course of the season. 
Then again, Utley had enough left in the tank in ‘09 to tie Reggie Jackson’s record for homers in a World Series with five. The Phillies had a week off before the Series, though, allowing Utley plenty of rest. 
Does he plan any changes this year? Maybe add a work­out regimen during the season 
— something he’s been opposed to in the past? 
“Every year is kind of a game of adjustments,” he said. “You try to work out what works best for you at that time. I imagine there will be a few adjustments this year.” 
Utley doesn’t say much, and he’s not giving away any secrets now. He does plan to seek input from Hall of Fame second baseman Ryne Sandberg. The Phillies hired Sandberg to manage Triple-A Lehigh Valley, bringing back a player they once traded in per­haps the most lopsided deal in baseball history. 
“Without a doubt I’m plan­ning to pick his brain,” Utley said. “We’ve already had a few conversations. He’s one of the best second basemen of all-time. I’d be dumb not to pick his brain.” 
Utley spends long hours in the batting cage, watches video and makes sure he’s always prepared before games. His work habits are admirable, but may lead to mental fatigue at times. 
“I think sometimes that might be his biggest problem,” manager Charlie Manuel said. “If we can give him a day off every now and then, that will be better for him. But I still look at him as a guy who’s going to play more than 145 games, close to 150.” 
Utley is an intense player with a strong desire to suc­ceed. So he works even harder than usual when he’s slump­ing. 
“When things are not going good, he likes to stand in there and pound the hell out of the ball and he’ll work until he finds it,” Manuel said. “He likes to have his hitting coach in there with him and talk to him but he does a lot of his hitting on his own, tee work and things like that. He wants to correct it and he’s deter­mined to do good.” 

Manuel can take Utley’s name off the lineup card to give him some rest, but that doesn’t necessarily mean he won’t do anything else that day. Manuel said it’s “kind of hard” to get Utley to take a complete day off and not work on his hitting. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February  18, 2011 
ND SOFTBALL 

TeamopensseasoninFlorida 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish begin their season this weekend in Orlando, Fla., in the UCF Invitational. With two fifth-year seniors and an addi­tional six seniors in the lineup, there is no shortage of seasoned players ready to lead the Irish into the weekend’s games. 
Fifth-year senior catcher Alexia Clay is excited for her team to really come together this season. 
“I think that it’s going to be a collaborative team effort,” Clay said. “We really are going to pull from the whole team because I feel like that’s one of our big goals this year — to have a uni­fied team.” 
In the tournament this week­end, the Irish will face Central Florida, Delaware, Miami (OH) and Illinois-Chicago. 
Captain and fellow fifth-year senior Heather Johnson isn’t con­cerned about the caliber of the teams this weekend. 
“No matter who we’re playing, we play Notre Dame style and we do our job and get things done,” Johnson said. “If everyone’s done what they needed to do, then we feel like we’ve done exactly what we’ve set out to do.” 
Johnson is looking forward to using her last year to lead the team to the post season. 
“This is my last year and I real­ly want to do whatever I can to help the team and just do my job,” Johnson said. “I just want to go out there and give my team the best shot to win a national championship.” 
Clay is returning after a shoul­der surgery that took her out of last year’s season. She has her own personal goals of recovery this season. 
“I just want to make an impact for the team,” she said. “I really would like to get back to my own self, which is a great hitter, so I’d really like to hit above .330 and get 15 home runs, but I’m feeling really good. It’s just nice to be back on the field.” 
With the returning seniors, a strong team of underclassmen and one of the premier coaches in the country, the team is eager and ready to take on a new sea­son. Clay said the team sought to improve some flaws during the off-season. 
“I think that the team has done really well improving on things in the off season, refining some raw talent and being unified on the field,” Clay said. “We’re still going to be working on those things, so I think that’s going to be one of the key things to help us be successful. Being unified on the field. The team this year has done a really good job of getting individual jobs done and working hard, so just kind of putting everyone’s efforts together.” 

Johnson feels confident in their team’s ability to succeed this sea­son. 
“We have strengths in every area,” Johnson said. “Our defense has improved, our pitch­ing is where it needs to be. We’ve worked out all the kinks. We’re clicking right now and feeling pretty confident about the direc­tion we’re headed.” 
Clay had something different to say on the matter. 
“We’re Notre Dame. It really doesn’t matter who we’re play­ing. Hopefully if we play our best game, it will beat their best game,” she said. 
The Irish will kick off their sea­son today at 2 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles finish up conference slate 

By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s is looking to continue its three game win­ning streak on Saturday when it takes on Kalamazoo in its last MIAA conference game of the year. 
With a current conference record of 10 -5, the Belles (17-7, 10-5 MIAA) are sitting comfortably in fourth place in the MIAA standings, behind Calvin (14 -1 MIAA), Hope (14 -1), and Albion (11 -4). Should the Belles defeat the Hornets (5 -18, 4-11) on Saturday, an Albion loss would move the Belles into a tie for third place, which could be critical for seeding in the MIAA Conference Tournament, which begins next week. 
Saint Mary’s meeting with Kalamazoo on Jan. 20 result­ed in the Belles ’ greatest offensive output of the season to date. The 90-59 win was in part a result of big games from junior forward Kelley Murphy and junior swing Maggie Ronan. The pair com­bined for 42 points, and Murphy added nine rebounds. Junior forward Jessica Centa also reached double-figure scoring with 14 points. Since last playing Saint Mary ’s, the Hornets have gone 3-4, posting over half of their wins for the year 

Cadet 
continued from page 24 

Championships to be held in Jordan in March. For Rossi, this weekend will be his fifth year competing at the Junior Olympics. 
“I began fencing with the Fencing Academy of Westchester, and as I got better I was picked up by the New York Athletic Club, ” Rossi said. “My best finish at the Junior Olympics was an eighth over-in that time span. 
Belles Coach Jennifer Henley is always primarily focused on the Belles’ defen­sive effort, as she is of the philosophy that if her team plays strong defense, the rest will take care of itself. In the previous contest, Henley was not satisfied with her squad’s defensive effort, and it is cer­tainly something the Belles will be looking to improve upon from last time. 
Saint Mary’s will also be looking to their success from Wednesday’s game against Adrian to carry over to Saturday ’s contest. Four Belles reached double fig­ures, including Murphy and Ronan. On the year, four Saint Mary ’s players are averaging double figures. Murphy leads the team with 15 points per game, and is almost averaging a double-double, as she is hauling in rebounds at a 9.5 per game clip. She is followed by Ronan, who contributes 13.5 points per game, and junior guard Patsy Mahoney, at 12.8 points per game. Centa rounds out the Belles averag­ing double -figures, at 10 points per game. 
Saturday’s game will take place at 1 p.m. in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

all, so I hope to “We are completely competition improve.” focused on winning as a step ­That eighth ping-stone to 
NCAAs.” 
overall is signif-team success. icant in that in “We are this competition Mike Rossi completely there are only freshman fencer focused on National championships last year, Kaull should be one of the favorites going into the Junior Olympics. 
“James is definitely among the top three for this event,” Rossi said. “I think he has a pretty good of making the team.” 
For these Irish fencers, the Junior Olympics, which are completely independent of the NCAA, will be the end of the line for their pre-colle­giate fencing careers. With their eyes on an NCAA national champi­
onship, the foursome views the 
two age divi ­sions, under-17 and under-20. According to Rossi, the experience of hav­ing fenced against much older athletes will help the Irish quartet this weekend. 
“It’s definitely an advan­tage to have a lot of experi­ence going in,” Rossi said. “We’re older, stronger, and more experienced than a lot of the other fencers. Plus, we ’re so focused on the NCAA season that we’re not too nervous going in.” 
Perhaps one person who has cause to be nervous going in is the sophomore Kaull, who Rossi believes has a legitimate chance of mak­ing the US team that will go to Jordan. After a 10th place finish at the NCAA winning 
NCAA’s,” 
Rossi said. 
“But it’s nice to get a chance to fence as individual.” 
For some, it could be a chance to move on and rep­resent their country. For others, it will be a chance to garner individual accolades. Regardless, all realize the honor of representing Notre Dame at a national competi­tion. 
“We’re definitely hoping to have a good showing for the Irish. We want to show we have the best fencers in the country,” Rossi said. 
Competition will begin Saturday in Dallas. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

Friday, February 18, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Duke 
continued from page 24 
“It’s not life or death, but last year this game is what got us into the tournament. Anytime we have a chance to go against a nationally recognized team we have to take advantage.” 
In last year’s opener, the Irish defeated No. 2 Duke, 11-7. Corrigan said he sees many parallels between this year’s Irish team and last year’s. 
“There are probably a lot more similarities than dif­ferences, ” he said. “We have a very strong defen ­sive group. Offensively, we are an unproven commodi­ty.” 

Last year the Irish ranked second nationally in team scoring defense, surrender­ing an average of only 7.53 goals per game. Much of that success relied on the prowess of senior goalie and two-time All-American Scott Rodgers. Corrigan acknowledges his team ’s inexperience at the goalie position, but has expressed confidence in sophomore John Kemp, who will man the net this year for the Irish. The Irish will look to protect the talented Kemp as much as possible against the Blue Devils. 
“I think we are really try­ing to focus on limiting their transitions, ” Brenneman said. “They are a pretty good offensive team, and our team goal is to have a team score less than six and if our defense can do that and our offense can put up points on the board, I think we’ll have a good day.” 

Should the Irish come out of the weekend with a win, their season, which has such high hopes, will be off to a great start. 
“I have never gone into a game where the goal hasn’t been to win,” Corrigan said. “So why would you go into a season where the goal isn’t to win every game?” 
The game can be seen on ESPN Sunday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Team to compete at Big East meet 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame heads to the Big East championships this weekend, with the women’s squad hoping to continue a strong performance from last year and the men’s team try­ing to repeat as Big East Champions. 
The Irish will compete against the entire Big East at the championships, which take place in Akron, Ohio. 
While a large number of athletes will compete for Notre Dame, the men’s team is specifically relying on sen­ior Justin Schneider in the heptathlon, junior Kevin Schipper in the pole vault and sophomore Jeremy Rae in the mile to lead them to another successful confer­ence finish. Schneider and Schipper each won the Big East in their events last sea­son, and Rae was named Big East Male Track Athlete of the Week two weeks ago, the second week in a row he won the honor. 
Irish coach Joe Piane said at least a top-three place­ment is within reach. 
“We’re going to be pretty solid,” Piane said. “We won it last year and we’d like to repeat, but there are a lot of teams that want to win.” 
On the women’s side, soph­omore miler Rebecca Tracy, freshman 400-meter runner Michelle Brown, senior sprinter Natalie Johnson and senior shotputter Rudy Atang are expected to perform well for Notre Dame. Tracy set the second-fastest mile time in the NCAA on Jan. 22 at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Though the Irish will be missing some key competi­tors, Piane still expects the team to perform well. 
“We hope to be in the top half,” Piane said. “We’ve had our fair share of injuries, so if we ’re in the top half, that’d be a pretty good per­formance.” 
The Irish were last in action two weeks ago when they hosted the Meyo Invitational. Typically, meets occur in back-to-back weeks, but the Irish took a week off before the Big East champi­onships this year, something Piane said was done to increase rest and maximize performance. 
“It wasn’t an accident that we had the week off,” Piane said. “The Meyo [is] pretty high quality, so [the break allows us to] take it easy for a few days and then have a really good week of training. It ’s done by design, and I think it certainly does help us.” 
The quest for the men ’s and women ’s conference championship begins tomor­row and continues all day Sunday. 

Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish look to succeed at home 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

The No. 23 Irish will try to con­tinue their four-match winning streak this weekend when they play host to No. 27 Michigan and No. 24 North Carolina at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
“This weekend we are facing two teams that traditionally are ranked among the nation’s elite,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Michigan is getting better each week and North Carolina is con­tinuing last year’s pace when they were a top-20 team all year.” 
The Irish (6-3) have had a strong doubles presence in all of their matches so far this year, winning the doubles point in all but one match. 
Notre Dame returns all of its starters from last year and there­fore boasts a lineup with a lot of experience. 
“Doubles will certainly matter,” Bayliss said. “We feel that we have the depth to compete with both teams down low and a lot will depend on how much poise we can demonstrate, because both teams are going to battle down to the wire.” 
No. 77 junior Casey Watt, who heads the lineup at first singles, will also be key. 
The Irish placed both of their top two doubles teams in the top 60 teams in the nation in the most recent ITA Rankings. 
Seniors Stephen Havens and Tyler Davis are currently ranked No. 28. Junior Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Spencer Talmadge are ranked No. 51. 
Complementing the wealth of starters returning from last year’s squad is a talented group of freshmen that will help the Irish maintain their talent level for years to come. 
“We could not be more excited about this year’s freshmen,” Bayliss said. “Greg Andrews has been all that we expected and we expected a lot. He has been rock solid and demonstrated poise in the face of significant adversity.” 
The Wolverines started off last season’s match strong, winning all three doubles matches, but the Irish will look to earn the point this season. Last season the Irish fell 4-3 to the Wolverines in a close match. 
In the singles lineup in that match the Irish had very close matches and will be facing many of the same players as both teams return many starters. 
The Irish are hoping that a change of venue from last year will make the difference. 
“Both teams are very well coached and will be well pre­pared,” Bayliss said. “I am hop­ing that playing on our own courts in front of our fans will give us an edge, but I expect both matches to go right down to the wire. It will be a challenge for our top players to line up with those on both teams.” 
The Irish will look to continue their winning ways beginning with Michigan on Saturday at 1 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S TRACK 

Young distance crew excelling indoors 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Exactly one month ago, Irish coach Tim Connelly reflected with distress on his team’s performance at the Notre Dame Invitational, an early test that gauged the team ’s 
overall strength 

and per -“Being here, their formance. 
definition of good 
“After 

is redefined and it 
seeing our [race is just a big times], I 
learning 
would say 

experience.” 
that we have to work on just about Tim Connelly every-
Irish coach 
thing,” Connelly said after the team’s per ­formance in late January. “There are some really big gaps and a little incon­sistency in 

o u r p e r ­f o r m a n c e s t h a t a r e  “As a team we want to be as competitive  i s h e d t h i r d , f i f t h a n d s e v ­e n t h , r e s p e c ­ 
p r e v e n t i n g  as we can in the  t i v e l y,  b e h i n d  
u s f r o m r e a l i z i n g  Big East.”  T r a c y ’s f i r s t ­p l a c e f i n i s h a t  
o u r  t r u e  t h e  M e y o  
potential.”  Rebecca Tracy  Invitational.  
A t  t h e  sophomore miler  ” T h e  w h o l e  

time, the field events were the team’s only true strength, finishing with the top thrower along with the top three triple jumpers and the top two long jumpers, practically carrying the team. 
Meanwhile, on the track side, and especially in the distance events, runners continued to struggle in finding their form, leading to sub -par results. That weekend, the distance team earned only two fin­ishes in medal position at a meet that consisted of only four squads. 
Something had to change, and the distance squad has since proven it was up for the challenge. 
“As a team we want to be as competitive as we can in the Big East, ” sophomore Rebecca Tracy said. “Coach [Connelly] just reminded us that if we really want to be competitive there is a lot of work to get done.” 
Two meets later, the dis­tance squad completely dominated the 1,000-meter run, finishing with four runners in the top five at the highly anticipated Meyo Invitational on Feb. 4, which included 46 other track teams. Even in the Meyo Mile, one of the nation ’s most competitive races, the Irish placed fourth and fifth, respec ­tively, led by Tracy 
(4:44 .31) and freshman Alexa Aragon (4:56.75). 
If there has been a con­stant for the distance team this year, it would be Tracy. The sophomore phe­nom began the year by posting the nation ’s sec ­
ond -fastest mile time (4:42.14), more than eight seconds faster than her best freshman mark. Tracy continued her success at Meyo by winning the highly competitive 1,000 -meter run with a time of 2:48.18, leading her teammates with her prowess on the track. 

“Her level of expectation changed [from last year to 
this year], ” Connelly said . “It came down to a matter of just doing the work and changing the expectation of what you are doing to fit your potential.” 
It seems as though Tracy ’s young team ­mates have taken to her 
example. Three freshmen 
— McKinzie Schulz 
(2:51.45), Kelly Curran 
(2:53.30), and Aragon 
(2:54.47) — fin-
thing is devel ­
opmental,” 
Connelly said . “It takes [the freshmen] a while to get their feet on the ground . Being here, their definition of good is redefined and it is just a big learning experience. You just challenge them all and hope they respond.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Johnson 
continued from page 24 

Mike Johnson played Friday and freshman Steven Summerhays played Saturday. It was the second weekend in a row that both goalies saw action. Jackson said that he would consider going with a two-goalie system for the rest of the season, but said it was far from set in stone. 
“I’m going to play this by ear right now, because it’s kind of a new experience for me too,” Jackson said. “I’ve never gone to a rotation this late in the season.” 
Either way, he acknowl­edged the need for outstand­ing play in net during the stretch run. 
“We’re going to need a great weekend of goaltend­ing,” Jackson said. “The next three road games, we’re going to need great goaltend­ing because we’re going up against great goalies and tough defensive teams, so we’re going to have to play well enough to win 3-2 and 2-1.” 
Both Jackson and senior defenseman Joe Lavin said the team was treating this weekend like a playoff series. Jackson said he was bringing the whole team on the road trip to simulate the feel of playoff hockey. 
“We’re getting to that point in the season where it’s like playoff hockey, and it’s about everybody being part of it. One of the strengths of this team this year has been the team,” Jackson said. “The guys that may not play every night, or may not play at all, are still a big part of this team and they’ve maintained great attitudes and that’s impor­tant.” 
Lavin echoed his coach, saying the team was mental­ly prepared for the stretch run. 

“We’re treating it like a playoff series, and I think it’ll be important for us to do that before playoffs actually start because we need to make sure we’re getting a head start on things.” 
Both Friday’s and Saturday’s games begin at 
7:05 p.m. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu@nd.edu 


Friday, February 18, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Huskies 
continued from page 24 
Connecticut three. 
Now they face each other again, this time in Storrs, Conn., Saturday, with a possi­ble Big East title at stake. 
“We’re a better team now, and I’m sure they feel like they’re a better team now,” sophomore guard Skylar Diggins said. “But we’ve grown a lot and I’m really happy with it.” 
Notre Dame (22-4, 11-1 Big East) enters the game second in the conference, behind the Huskies (25-1, 12-0). Both teams have four games left on their regular-season sched­ules. 
“We have a chance to win the league,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “And we’re playing for seeding, both in the Big East and the NCAAs.” 
Despite the emotional end to Notre Dame’s earlier matchup with Connecticut, McGraw said the team has improved because it never lost its focus. 
“This team, under the lead­ership of [senior forward] Becca Bruszewski, has really approached every game as the most important game in our season,” she said. 
But Diggins said the team never completely forgot. 
“When we played Rutgers, it was all about Rutgers. Then boom, it’s on to the next oppo­nent,” she said. “And that’s been this team’s focus all year, one game at a time. 
“But of course, it’s in the back of our minds.” 
Diggins has been instrumen­tal in her team’s growth in the last several weeks and was named Big East player of the week Monday for her 20-point, five-rebound, five-assist per­formance against Rutgers Saturday and her 14-point, seven-assist, six-rebound, five-steal stat-line against Seton Hall on Feb. 8. 
“When she gets in the lane, she’s really hard to guard and we’re a much better team,” McGraw said. 
The Huskies last played Monday, when they defeated No. 14 Oklahoma 86-45. Huskies guard Maya Moore scored 27 points in the game to bring her career-total to 2,796 as she became the Big East’s all-time leading scorer. 
The win was Connecticut’s 75th straight at the Gampel Pavilion. 
“It’s going to be loud, and [the fans] are going to be on us,” Diggins said. “Hopefully we can take their fans out. We know they’re a huge part. Hopefully we can attack early and set the tempo early and try to limit that.” 


Beginning with Saturday, three of Notre Dame’s last four games are on the road against ranked teams. 
Diggins said the team is playing with the most confi­dence it’s had all year, and have a very different approach to Connecticut than they did in 2010, when they burned the tapes of their 70-46 loss in Storrs. 
“We burned it because it was awful,” she said. “This year, the last four minutes you want to burn up, but it’s like, ‘Hey, we can win this game.’ I feel like I don’t need to convince any of my teammates that we can win this game. 
“Last year, it was let’s play not to lose. This year, it’s let’s play to win.” 
The game will be played at 2 

p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Showdown with No. 2 Northwestern awaits 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 

Another early season game, another early season cupcake, right? 
Think again. For the second time in their first three games, the Irish will face a team ranked in the top 15, this time matching up against 2010 national runner-up Northwestern. 
The No. 2 Wildcats are a familiar foe for No. 10 Notre Dame, which has been knocked out of the NCAA tournament by Northwestern twice in the past three years. Overall, the Irish are 2-10 against the Wildcats, including a 15-5 season-ending loss last year. 
Notre Dame, however, rebounded in the fall by beat­ing the Wildcats. 
“To be honest, I think that win in the fall was a turning point,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “The lead changed hands a couple times and it was a really competitive game. We made some mistakes that allowed to game to be so back­and-forth and we’ll be looking to correct those.” 
In the closing minutes of that game, senior defender Lauren Fenlon controlled a crucial draw while fellow senior defender Jackie Doherty drew a key charge to seal the victory. 
“We love playing them, they’re our regional rivals,” Coyne said. “We looked at a lot of tape from that game, seeing things that we did well and things we can improve on.” 
The Wildcats — the third Irish opponent to open its sea­son against Notre Dame — return nine starters, including three All-Americans. Junior attack Shannon Smith, an early Player of the Year candidate, scored 69 goals last season while assisting on 33 others. For Northwestern, this is the first of five road games to open the season, four of which are against ranked opponents. 
The Irish return home after splitting a pair of games in California, beating Cal 20-6 before falling to No. 13 Stanford 13-12 on Sunday. Junior midfielder Jenny Granger got off to a fast start, scoring six goals and adding two assists over the weekend. Freshman midfielder Kaitlyn Brosco started her college career in style, contributing four goals and an assist. 
“Coming off the loss to Stanford, it would be huge to get the win,” Coyne said. “Playing those two early games was tough from a preparation standpoint. I need to have the team prepared as well as possi­ble.” 
Saturday’s game will be the home opener for the Irish, who will be playing indoors at Loftus Center instead of their usual home field, Arlotta Stadium. 
“Arlotta Stadium is amazing, so obviously any time we get a chance, we want to play there, but we love the indoor facility too,” Coyne said. “It’s a little narrower but we’re used to it. We have great facilities here and we just love using them.” 
The Irish open their home slate against the Wildcats on Saturday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles open hopeful season at Nazarane 
By MATTHEW UNGER 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s will look to build upon its recent success Saturday in its opening match of the season at NAIA opponent Olivet Nazarene. The Belles will strive for their sixth straight 10-win season along with their first NCAA Division III tournament bid since 2002. 
Coach Dale Campbell, in his third year leading the program, hopes to build upon his team’s 13­9 record in dual matches last sea­son, which included a 4-4 record in conference play. However, the team is left with the challenge of filling the void left by graduating senior Camille Gebert. She finished her junior and senior seasons undefeated in MIAA singles matches and earned All-MIAA honors twice. 
Senior co-captains Jillian Hurley and Franca Peluso look to be can­didates to replace Gebert’s produc­tion. Last season, Hurley finished 15-7 in singles matches against the top opposing singles tennis players and has been named to the All-MIAA squad the past two years. In addition, Hurley and fel­low senior Mary Therese Lee led the top doubles team in 2010, fin­ishing with a record of 16-6. 
Meanwhile, Peluso went 17-5 in her singles matches in 2010 and also teamed with Gebert for dou­bles matches against the top dou­bles pairs on opposing teams. 
The Belles will seek to utilize their senior leadership, with five out of 10 players on the roster in their senior seasons. This experi­ence will prove beneficial with four freshmen on the roster. 
St. Mary’s will take on Olivet Nazarene at 2 p.m. on Saturday and continue with non-conference matches throughout the next month until their MIAA opener against Albion on March 29. 
Contact Matthew Unger at munger3@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2011 
Senior guard Casey Mitchell 
— who averages 15.4 points 
Brey 

per game, including a 23-point continued from page 24 performance on 7-of-13 3­
point shooting in a 63-52 loss great team?” Brey asked him-to No. 17 Syracuse — leads the self as a guest on ESPN’s Rome Mountaineers (16-9, 7-6) into Is Burning Tuesday. “I think at the game. times that we are truly a great But other than Mitchell, West 
t  e  a  m  Virginia  has  
because  we  struggled to play  
play together and we real­ly know how to play off of  “I think at times that we are truly a great team because we  consistently for a full game, as the M o u n t a i n e e r s relinquished a  
each other.” Waiting for the Irish is another vet- play together and we really know how to play off of each  four-point lead at halftime to the Orange while only connecting on one  
eran a  squad, West  other.”  shot in the last eight minutes of  
V i r g i n i a team that  Mike Brey  Monday’s game. They have been  
has  strug- Irish coach  outscored in the  
gled of late  second  half  of  
and is in the  their  last  five  

toughest stretch of its sched-games and have lost their last ule, in which it faces four four meetings against ranked ranked teams, including No. 4 opponents. Pittsburgh and No. 13 Meanwhile, the Irish have Connecticut. done the exact opposite, win­
“We are going into one of the ning their last seven Big East top-three toughest places to games, most recently play against a team with their Saturday’s 78-55 win over back against the wall,” Brey South Florida in which six said. “But they still have that starters scored in double-nucleus of guys who played on figures for the second time this a Final Four team.” year. 

Sophomore forward Jack Cooley led the Irish attack against the Bulls — which 
included a 22-0 the first half — with 18 points and eight rebounds while making his first nine shots. Carleton Scott also recorded his sixth dou­ble-double of the year with 13 points and 11 rebounds. 
But the unsung hero of the last few games for 

Notre Dame has been fresh­man point guard Eric Atkins, who leads the Big East in assist-to-turnover ratio. Atkins has recorded 19 dimes in the past three games, drawing a 
run early in 
“What we don’t do with foot speed, our length and size help us.” 
Mike Brey 
Irish coach 
comparison to an NBA All-Star from Brey and leading scorer Ben Hansbrough. 
“Ben told 

me the other day of how much [Atkins] reminds him of [Celtics point guard] Rajon Rondo,” Brey said at a Thursday press confere nce . “When he is in the game we have an under­standing that we want to get him the ball, especially in transition. We 
want to take advantage of his ability to push the ball and find his teammates.” 
Atkins will be up against senior point guard Joe Mazzulla, who Brey called the toughest player in the league after last year’s 53-51 win over the Irish in the semifinals of the Big East Tournament. Junior forward Kevin Jones, who has averaged 12.7 points and seven rebounds per game, assists the lightning-quick Mazzulla. Brey said his squad makes up for its lack of speed with defense and size, and that will be crucial to Saturday’s matchup. 
“What we don’t do with foot speed, our length and size help us. What has really shown up is our defensive rebounding, which is really what this game will come down to,” Brey said. 
The Irish take to the road in hopes of continuing its three-game road winning streak against the Mountaineers at 1 
p.m. Saturday on CBS. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 



Friday, February 18, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37Ward of 
1 It's now called Hollywood “Periodicals” 38Hotel waiters? 

16Uppity 40Genealogist's 
17Dangerous study thing? 42Robotic rock 18Muchacho group popular in the 1980s 
19Cross letters 44Frosty's relative
20Pandemonium 46Cost of living? 
21Blu-ray relative 48Kind of bean 
22Interject 49Std. 
25Part of a farm harrow 50Auburn competitors
27Go out with 52Survey check-off 
28“The Poverty of Philosophy” 53Ace author 54“That's nasty!” 
30Peaty places 57Time starter 
32Hot 59R.I.P. part 
35Blueprint feature 60Navigator's aid 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
GUFF AGHA 

FEMME ISEE 
FRONTROOMS MURDERONTHEN I LE MAMI E 
ELIE EL I NNORDEGREN TYRO 

RHEN I SH OLEO 
CUE 

I GOTO NUN 
TAXL I EN 

BIO ENDOW 
MTA 

SERF SK I DOOS 
ETAT NEI LARMSTRONG RI FE 
MOBI L GOESOVERTHEL I NE BANANACAKE 
LEES 
65Broad appeal 66Union of 1284 
Down 
1 Jerks 2 Spiced up 3 One who knows 
the value of a dollar 4 Not had by 5 Pocket 6 Cable alternative 
7 1969 biopic starring 10­Down 
8 Taylor of “The Haunting” 9 Means 10Star of 7-Down 11 Fez wearer 12Calendar abbr. 
13Mex. neighbor 14“This ___ joke!” 15Big name in 
construction 22Quantity: Abbr. 23Zip 24Overnight 
sensation 26 Violinist/bandlea 
der ___ Light 29Base line 31Green energy 
source 33Pack rat 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  
16  
17  
18  19  20  
21  22  23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  
65  
66  

Puzzle by Martin Ashwood-Smith 
34Bust finds 47Bird on a Kellogg's cereal
36Argue (for) box39Island along 51Burn 

Cuillin Sound 41Overlooks 54“Good Luck, Miss Wyckoff” 
43100 centesimi novelist 
45Musical 55Normandy city 

instrument inventor Adolphe 56___ fu 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
58“All Fool's Day”writer 59Chute opener? 61___ el Amarna, Egypt 62Author Beattie 63Former Ford 64Small gull 


TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
STAYS ONOR SSRS 

JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, February 18, 2011 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
UConn do it 
Irish look to stun Huskies on the road 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame didn’t burn the records of its first meeting with Connecticut this year, as much as players may have wanted to get rid of those last four min­utes. 
A rebound here, or a shot falling there, and the No. 13 Irish could have come away with an improbable victory over the No. 2 Huskies on Jan. 
8. Instead, they left with a 79­76 loss on their record. 
In the six weeks since that game, neither team has lost. Connecticut, still No. 2, has averaged a 26.7-point margin in its 11 victories. Notre Dame, now No. 8, has averaged a 25.6-point margin in its nine wins. Connecticut has since defeated five ranked teams, 
DAN JACOBS /The Observer 

Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins looks for a teammate in a close 79-76 loss to see HUSKIES/page 21 Connecticut on Jan. 8 at the Purcell Pavilion. 

FENCING 

Members gotoJunior Olympics 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 

Even on what is technically an off weekend, the Notre Dame fencing team will get a chance to shine. The undefeat­ed and No. 1 ranked Irish teams will send three freshmen and one sophomore fencer to Dallas this weekend to compete in the United States Fencing Association Junior Olympic Championships. 
The Junior Olympics are based on national points accu­mulated through years of ama­teur competition. Freshmen Mike Rossi, Nicholas Kubik, Abigail Nichols and sophomore James Kaull will compete against 1,500 of the top fencers in the country in an event that serves as a qualifier to repre­sent Team USA at the 2011 Cadet and Junior World 
see CADET/page 18 

HOCKEY 

Ferris State defense poses stiff challenge to first place team 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be back on the road this weekend, heading to Big Rapids, Mich., to take on Ferris State in a key late-sea­son two-game series. 
Notre Dame currently sits in first place in the CCHA but is just a point ahead of both Michigan and Miami (Ohio). The Irish have clinched a bye in the first round of the confer­ence playoffs. 

“We have to play well as we approach the playoffs,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “You work all season long to finish in the top four to get that bye and home ice, but you’ve got to play well. I don’t care if you’re playing at home in the second round, you’ve still got to play well.” 
Playing well, especially offen­sively, could be difficult against a Bulldogs team that is notori­ously tough defensively. Ferris State routinely plays its wingers down low in the defen­sive zone to stymie opposing offenses. The Bulldogs defense is tied for second-best in the CCHA, allowing just 2.12 goals per game. 
“It’s going to be about being patient, it’s going to be about staying the course and not get­ting frustrated,” Jackson said. “We have to generate scoring 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish chasing title dreams 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Chasing it down. 
Irish coach Mike Brey’s self-proclaimed theme of 2011 for his team’s phenomenal run continues on the road Saturday in Morgantown, W. Va., as the No. 8 Irish (21-4, 10-3) try to chase down the regular season Big East title. The Irish are currently in sec­ond place, two games behind No. 4 Pittsburgh, whose only conference loss was to the Irish at home. But Brey remains outstandingly confi­dent in his veteran players, banking on their experience and chemistry together. 
“What is the definition of a 
see BREY/page 22 


chances in different ways, too. It can’t just be off the cycle, because it’s going to be hard to generate chances off the cycle.” 
The tenacious Ferris State defense is backstopped by sen­ior netminder Pat Nagle, who leads the CCHA with a 1.90 goals-against average and a .925 save percentage. 
“You have to play a smart, patient game against them because they defend their goal­tender, who’s maybe the best in the country,” Jackson said. “They defend him well, and they play a good defensive style that allows them to create opportunities offensively off transition.” 
At the other end of the ice, the Irish goaltending situation remains somewhat muddled. In last weekend’s sweep of Bowling Green, sophomore 
see JOHNSON/page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Finals rematch offers a chance at revenge 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

Nearly nine months after falling to Duke in the NCAA championship game in overtime, Notre Dame has a chance to begin its season with redemption. 
When the Irish and the Blue Devils meet up in Jacksonville, Fla., Sunday, the rematch of last year’s final will include two top­10 teams. 
Coming off a season in which they went 7-6 before earning three straight upset victories in the NCAA tournament to reach the finals, the Irish enter the 2011 season ranked No. 7 nationally. 
Duke is ranked as high as No. 4 in the polls. 
“It’s a big game for us,” senior midfielder Zach Brenneman said. “Because it’s our first one against a top team. You always want to start off your season well and a team like Duke, you always have to pre ­pare well, and I think our coaches do a great job at that.” 
The Irish coaching staff is headed by Kevin Corrigan as he begins his 23rd year on the job. For Corrigan, the opening game against Duke offers a valuable opportunity. 
“It is like all opening games, ” Corrigan said. 
see DUKE/page 19 




