
COMMENTARY 
Team moves on after controversial remarks 
The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 4, 2011 
RECRUITING 


Linebacker Perkins decommits 
“You know, you can see the writers that I worked with, you know who they are. I had one department of kids that I worked with that I’ve had my hand on. The other writers here are coming along. It’s a process. It can’t happen overnight. They’re getting it. They’re making good progress.” 
That paragraph likely quali­fies as the last thing I would ever say to or about the staff here at The Ob­server. It is also nearly verbatim what Irish coach Brian Kelly said about his team last week, if you substitute “play­ers” in for “writers,” “recruited” in for “worked with,” and “class” in for “department.” 
Safe to say, Kelly messed up. 
Now first off, The Observer is late to this story for one simple reason: Each week’s Irish In­sider goes to print before Kelly’s Thursday press conference. Typ­ically, that press conference con­sists of a simple update on senior defensive end Ethan Johnson’s ankle, a mundane inquiry about the number two quarterback and a few jokes about Kelly’s age or his love of the Boston Red Sox. Nothing more, nothing less. 
Last Thursday, Oct. 27, Kelly threw a curveball with his rant separating the freshmen from the rest of the team. This par­ticular curveball was a mistake down the middle of the plate. 
At first, Kelly got away with his mistake. None of the dozen or so reporters asked a follow­up question. None of the beat reporters tried to pin Kelly. None even wondered which players Kelly had his hand on that have been the most appreciated. 
In the Thursday press confer­ence write-ups, Kelly’s para­graph of criticism didn’t make it into many leads. Rather, the focus was on a completely valid point by the second-year coach. 
“I coach a style of football that I want played, and we’re not getting that style,” Kelly said. “A lot of the guys, we’re retraining them.” 
Obviously, the upperclassmen came to Notre Dame expecting Charlie Weis’ system. Most of them learned and played in his system. It will take awhile for them to adjust to the new way of doing things. Neither Kelly nor the players should be faulted for that, and Kelly’s admitting such a simple fact is hardly press-worthy. 
Then why did his press conference comments lead to a Twitter-led backlash and a reported clearing of the air at a team meal last Friday? 


The beat reporters did not even tweet Kelly’s controver­sial comment. It was largely a non-issue to them. But when the fans saw the blunder, the horribly-named “Twittergate” suddenly had momentum. By the end of the night, Notre Dame’s most recognizable player, junior linebacker Manti Te’o, saw fit to share his thoughts on the topic via his Twitter handle @MTeo_5, “Playin for my bros and that’s it!!!!” 
Former Irish players cur­rently in the NFL, players from the Weis regime, shared their support of their former team­mates via Twitter. Some more of Te’o’s current teammates aired their grievances via the social media, and suddenly Kelly faced a short-term crisis. 
And the fans loved every second of it. 
Because Notre Dame fans wanted them to do just that. Notre Dame fans wanted a rea­son to be upset. Notre Dame fans have adapted the exact mental­ity Kelly was referring to in his players, even if he shouldn’t have in the first place. 
An atmosphere pervades Notre Dame football, no matter how hard Kelly may try to fight it off. This atmosphere stems from an even 29-29 record over the last four-plus years. Just as winning forms habits, so does losing, and the upperclassmen have dealt with both. Habits have formed in each direction. 
This atmosphere extends to the rabid fan base. Instead of looking at 11 national cham­pionships and seven Heisman Trophy winners, Irish fans look at 23 years since a title and five coaches since 1997. Instead of expecting wins, Irish fans expect underwhelming performances and disappointing losses. 
Perhaps most guilty is the student body. But again, the students have known nothing different. Current seniors have tasted 26 wins in their four years, compared with 20 losses. 
Kelly needs to remember something though, as do the players, the fans and the stu­dents. 
“They’re all bought in,” Kelly said last Thursday. “Every single one of them is bought in.” 
While Kelly may have been referring to only the players, it is true of the fans and students as well. They’ve all bought in, even if some need to be retrained as they come along. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
While Notre Dame continues to pursue talented recruits from all over the country, the Irish lost their 2012 signee closest to home this week when South Bend line­backer David Perkins re-opened his recruitment. Though losing Perkins is a setback to the class Irish coach Brian Kelly continues to craft, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said the writing has been on the wall for some time. 
“I’ve just never been sold that he really wanted to be at Notre Dame,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “He seems like a kid that wants to get out a little bit and see things, and he’s never really been fond of this area. When you speak to him, he doesn’t have too many things that he’s excited about when talking about this area. 
“But I think he also under­stands the value of a Notre Dame education and what that can bring to him. How it ends up, I don’t know.” 
Frank said Kelly might not be too concerned with Perkins’ de­commitment, as Kelly continues to build a class of players who are fully committed to the Irish. 
“[Kelly] only wants kids that want to be at Notre Dame and not kids that he has to talk into coming to Notre Dame,” Frank said. “It’ll be interesting to see where that ends up and see how hard Notre Dame pushes to get him back in the fold — and whether he’s even interested in Notre Dame at this point. I know he says he is, but it may just be a fallback plan for him too.” 
Frank said Kelly and recruit­ing coordinator Chuck Martin were not looking for many line­backers in the 2012 class anyway and that Ohio linebacker Ifeadi Odenigbo may take Perkins’ spot in the class. 
“Notre Dame is pretty high on Ifeadi Odenigbo’s list right now, and if he were to come in the fold, I don’t think that losing David Perkins would be an issue at all,” Frank said. “I think Ifeadi better fits the profile as far as the type of player they want … But it’s re­ally not a big need.” 
After a brief firestorm erupted late last week over Kelly’s com­ments comparing players he had recruited to players recruited by former coach Charlie Weis, Frank said there was certainly a difference in both coaches’ re­cruits, but much of that was due to the 3-4 defense defensive coor­dinator Bob Diaco has installed. “I think that the differences would be in body type,” Frank said. “Under Weis, they were re­cruiting more of a 4-3 look. [Kelly and his staff] want to build a big, beefy front three and get some athletic players on the outside that can run and play in space … I can sort of see where one would say that’s a different type of player.” 
Frank said the other major dif­ference between the Weis and Kelly recruiting philosophies was the method used for evalu­ation. 
“It seemed like at times through Charlie’s tenure that he liked a lot of guys that were athletic. Their measurables were impressive,” Frank said. “With Kelly, he wants to see productiv­ity on the field and wants to see it with his own two eyes. 
“Just watching the highlight films of the two groups, I’d be ly­ing if I said I didn’t see a differ­ence in some of the players of the recruited.” 
Because Frank only has time to watch highlight films, howev­er, he cautioned against drawing too many conclusions from tapes recruits put together. 
“Let me be clear in saying that a highlight film is just four min­utes of one player doing some­thing well all four minutes,” Frank said. “I can put together a highlight film and it would make me look a lot better than I actu­ally am.” 
As the Irish travel to play their first-ever game at Wake Forest, Frank said the Carolinas are beginning to become more and more recognized as locales with high levels of football talent. 
“Notre Dame’s recruited a lot of players from that area as well. They’re really starting to tap into it more and more,” Frank said. “There are a lot of great athletes down there, and sometimes they just get overlooked because it’s not a hot news bed area.” 
Frank said the rare trip to North Carolina will help build Notre Dame’s brand recognition. 
“It gets Notre Dame’s name out there. All of that exposure is fantastic for Notre Dame,” Frank said. “When you have so much talent down there in that area, it’s a great opportunity to go down there and show that group of people what Notre Dame’s about.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 



Leaving a legacy 
Gray finally gets an opportunity during his senior campaign and makes the most out of it 
By ALLAN JOSEPH Sports Editor  said. “I was worried about my mom in the stands and how  and he just said, ‘How do you want to be remembered? It’s  
she was doing. I know she was  up to you. You’re the only per- 
Entering the 2011 season,  probably going crazy.”  son that can make it better or  
senior  running  back  Jonas  Gray’s loyalty to his mother  make it get worse,’” Gray said.  
Gray  had  done  everything  stems from his upbringing in  “That was it. He said he be- 
right to get his final campaign  Pontiac. Mich., and he carries  lieved in me.”  
off to a fast start. After three  the lessons his mother taught  Hinton echoed Kelly’s sen- 
years of waiting, Gray had fi­ him to this day.  timents and shored up Gray’s  
nally found his opportunity to  “We’re  just  a  close-knit  belief in himself when the se­ 
be a featured back.  family. She’s a parent but at  nior back needed it most.  
“He did all the things it  the  same  time she’s like my  “After the game, [coach Hin­ 
takes  to  best  friend,”  ton] pulled me in his office and  
have a great  Gray  said.  he was upset with himself …  
year,”  run­ “We  just  al- He said, ‘I should have played  
ning backs coach Tim Hinton said. “He worked hard in the  “He’s finishing his runs. He’s playing like a 230-pound back. It’s fun to watch.”  ways stuck to­gether. That’s why I have that loyalty to my te a m m a te s ,  you more after it happened,’” Gray said. “That right there, it was refreshing — he and coach Kelly coming together and making sure that I didn’t  
summer,  in  because  she  get in the tank, and then re- 
the weight room, in his con- Brian Kelly Irish coach  instilled that in me.” That loyalty  alizing the talents that I had and the capabilities that I had when I didn’t even believe in  
d i t i on i ng .  to his “football  myself.”  
He  worked  family”  paid  Hinton and Gray have de­ 
hard  in  his  off  for  Gray  veloped a close relationship  
s u m mer  when the Irish  that has helped spur Gray to  
two-a-days. He studied film,  rallied around their senior  rebound and accept Kelly’s  
he’s learned his schemes and  tailback  after  his  season- challenge in the best of ways  
he understands the blocking  opening miscue.  — Gray has reeled off eight  
in front of him.”  “My  teammates  rallied  touchdown runs in the last  
Notre  Dame  took  the  ball  around me, my coaches rallied  five games.  
all the way to the South Flor- around me,  so I was  okay,”  “We are very close. He al­ 
ida 1-yard line on its opening  Gray said.  ways talks about how he loves  
drive, and Gray got the call to  Yet despite rebounding and  us as people,” Gray said. “It’s  
earn the final three feet and  hitting his midseason stride,  just trust between me and him  
score the first touchdown of  Gray said not a day goes by  and the rest of the running  
his collegiate career.  when he does not think about  backs in the room. We’re like  
Moments later, South Flor- that South Florida contest —  an intermediate family inside  
ida cornerback Kayvon Web- but not because of the fumble.  of a bigger family, and he’s the  
ster had returned a Gray fum­ “In a lot of ways — I know  head of the house.  
ble 96 yards for a touchdown,  people are going to say it’s not  “[This success] is just great  
and Gray’s dream start was in  true — I feel like [senior quar­ coaching. That’s what it comes  GRANT TOBIN/The Observer  
disarray.  terback Dayne Crist] getting  down to.” Irish senior running back Jonas G ray scores a touchdown against  
“I was shocked that it hap- benched had a lot do with me,”  From his role calling plays, Navy on Oct. 29. Gray scored thr ee touchdowns in the 56-14 win.  
pened,” Gray said. “I kept try- Gray said. “With him being  Kelly has been able to watch  
ing to remember in my head  one of my best friends, it was  the fruits of the relationship  and being that physical ele­ a little surprise and a happy  
what happened. It happened  tough. It still is tough. That’s  between Hinton and Gray turn  ment in our running game. It’s  surprise.”  
kind of fast, and I was think- why I think about that game  into success on the field.  really helped our offense.”  Gray has been so explo­ 
ing, ‘Did the ref blow the whis­ every day. You think about  “Our job as coaches is to de- For  his  part, Gray  credits  sive, in fact, that he is on the  
tle? Was I down by contact?’”  how fast it can be taken away  velop our players. It has to be a  Hinton with his renewed com- verge of breaking a decades- 
The fumble stood, and Gray  from you.”  50/50 relationship with them.  mitment to winning physical  old Notre Dame record. Gray  
found himself facing doubt yet again. But when he re-entered  Belief from the top  We can only do so much,” Kelly said. “I think coach Hin­ battles. “I love it. It’s exciting. It’s  is currently averaging 8.5 yards per carry on the season,  
the game later, his own trou- After the first game, Irish  ton has done a great job with  like coach Hinton always says:  surpassing both the modern  
bles were not foremost on his  coach Brian Kelly did not be- him. He’s finishing his runs.  ‘Break  your will  with  their  record  of  8.0 yards  Reggie  
mind.  rate  Gray,  nor  did he bench  He’s playing like a 230-pound  toughness.’ That’s what it is,”  Brooks set in 1992 and the all­ 
“I was a little worried, espe­ him. Instead, Kelly simply is- back. It’s fun to watch.  the English and political sci- time school record of 8.1 yards  
cially when I got back in and  sued a challenge.  “His focus has been on fin­ ence major said. “You’re out  per carry posted in 1920 by  
people started booing,” Gray  “He talked to me about it,  ishing  runs,  being  physical  there running hard, you low- the famed George Gipp.  
er your shoulder and after a  “It  is  crazy,  especially  
while they’re not going to take  thinking about where I came  
you head on.”  from, where I started,” Gray  
said. “To talk about breaking  
Running into the record books  a record with a guy like that is  
In response to Kelly’s chal­ — breaking any type of Notre  
lenge,  Gray  Dame  record  
gave himself  from where I  
one task: building a legacy. “My one thing I wanted to do was leave a legacy of  “It is crazy, especially thinking about where I came from, where I started. To talk about breaking a record with a guy like that ... it’s pretty incredible.  started — it’s pretty incred­ible.” Though Gray knows his se­nior campaign may have put some in the  
a  guy  who  NFL on notice,  
dealt with all that ad­versity, con- Jonas Gray senior running back  he has just one goal for the end of the sea­ 
tinued  to  son — a goal  
come  back,  fittingly  in- 
continued to play at a high lev­ spired by the season’s start.  
el and played through things,”  “For these last four games,  
he said. “I think I’ve done  I’m trying to do everything I  
that, and I think there’s still a  can to help the team win,”  
lot left to do.  Gray said. “If I work hard, I’m  
“I always say it’s been so  going to help this team win  
much of a journey. It’s had its  and I’m going to help myself in  
ups and downs, its negatives  the future.  
and positives, but I wouldn’t  “I don’t think there’s a game  
change a thing.”  really  where  I  don’t  think  
Not only has Gray finished  about that very first game. I  
his career with its best play,  think about going out there  
but the presumed power run- and paying attention to detail  
ner has turned heads with his  and helping my team win —  
breakaway speed.  going out there and playing  
“He had to be a physical  my hardest.”  
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer  downhill presence … and he’s  

Irish senior running back Jonas Gray waits for the snap against Pittsburgh on Sept. 24. Gray scored done a great job,” Hinton said. Contact Allan Joseph at a 79-yard touchdown in the 15-12 win, the longest rush for a Notre Dame running back in 11 years. “His explosiveness has been ajoseph2@nd.edu 
IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 
Wake Forest ranks 89th in The Irish made an emphatic COACHING the country in pass defense, al-return to the ground game last Wake Forest coach Jim Grobe lowing 244 passing yards per week after struggling against and his staff have engineered a game to their opponents and USC two weeks ago. Notre Dame number of masterful defensive allowing three 300-yard efforts scored seven of its eight touch-performances, most notably 


Head-to 
this season. On the other side downs on the ground, with se-a five-takeaway performance 
of the ball, sophomore quarter­ nior running back Jonas Gray  against  Florida  State.  Irish  
back Tommy Rees leads an Irish  leading the way with three  coach Brian Kelly and offensive  
offense that has been inconsis­ scores. Gray and junior running  coordinator  Charley  Molnar  
tent at times but ranks 32nd in  back Cierre Wood have been  will have their tactics put to the  
the nation, averaging 267 yards  slashing through opposing de­ test this weekend.  
through the air each game. Rees has a plethora of targets to look to, from his receivers,  fenses fairly regularly this year, and they will look to establish a tempo early on the road against  EDGE: EVEN  Notre Dame Offense  
including  always-productive  an upset-minded Wake Forest  
senior Michael Floyd, quick ju­ squad.  
nior Theo Riddick and reliable junior tight end Tyler Eifert to his running backs, especially junior Cierre Wood, who can be dangerous in space.  The Demon Deacons have given up 134 yards per game on the ground, though they were able to limit Virginia Tech to just 59 rushing yards. Senior  WR WR  7 16 6 9  TJ Jones DaVaris Daniels Theo Riddick Robby Toma  So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  
Freshman cornerback Merrill  safety Cyhl Quarles is one of the  
Noel leads the Demon Deacon  Demon Deacons’ top tacklers,  
pass defense. Noel has 15 pass breakups and one interception this season, the most pass de­fenses in the country. Wake For­est will try to match Noel with  which suggests running backs are consistently reaching the secondary. If the Irish can establish a ground game early to force the  RB  20 25  Cierre Wood Jonas Gray  Jr. Sr.  LT LG  70 72 66 76  Zack Martin Nick Martin Chris Watt Andrew Nuss  Jr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  
Floyd all game long, but expect Irish coach Brian Kelly to move Floyd around. Rees will still be  tempo of the game, they will open up the passing game — and when the Irish are passing  QB  11 10  Tommy Rees  Dayne Crist  So. Sr.  C  52 57  Braxston Cave Mike Golic Jr.  Sr. Sr.  
able to find lots of room against the rest of the secondary.  well, the draw play Wood runs so well is its most effective.  RG  78 65  Trevor Robinson Conor Hanratty  Sr. Fr.  
EDGE: NOTRE DAME  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  RT  75 74  Taylor Dever Christian Lombard  Sr. So.  
IRISH SCHEDULE Sept. 3 South Florida (L, 23–20)  TE  80 18  Tyler Eifert Ben Koyack  Jr. Fr.  
Sept. 10 @ Michigan  
(L, 35-31) Sept. 17 Michigan St. (W, 31-13) Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh (W, 15-12) Oct. 1 @ Purdue (W, 38-10) Oct. 8 Air Force (W. 59-33) Oct. 22 USC (L, 31-17) Oct. 29 Navy  IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS After a rough start to the season, the Irish special-teams units have begun to get it in gear. The punt-block and punt-return unit still struggles, but at least it isn’t turning the ball over anymore. Freshman returner George Atkinson has made opposing teams pay, using timely blocking to earn good field position when he’s not scoring touchdowns. Wake Forest has been able to block two punts this season, but the real test of its special teams will be whether they can contain Atkinson. The Demon Deacons currently allow an average of 20 yards per return.  3 Michael Floyd Sr. WR 81 John Goodman Sr. Notre Dame Defense  
Nov. 5  (W, 56-14) @ Wake Forest  EDGE: EVEN  
Nov. 12  Maryland  
Nov. 19 Nov. 26  Boston College @ Stanford  CB  12 23  Robert Blanton Lo Wood  Sr. So.  

Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 

22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 
P ILB 
44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
9 Louis Nix So. 

50 Ryan Kavanagh Sr. NG 98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 
5 Manti Te’o Jr.
   60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 
LS ILB 
54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
DE 
50 Chase Hounshell Fr. 

81 John Goodman Sr. 
PR 3 Michael Floyd Sr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 

26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 34 George Atkinson Fr. S 17 Zeke Motta Jr. OLB 56 Troy Niklas Fr. 
KR 28 Austin Collinsworth So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 

KO 
Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 
ACC country, you say? Well, at least for this weekend, I’m going to focus on the game at hand. While specula­tion may run rampant about confer­ence realignment and Notre Dame’s role in it, there’s very little specula­tion about  which team is the better one this weekend. 
Notre Dame is far more talented 

than the upstart Demon Deacons. While Wake Forest was able to take down an athletic Florida State squad, there’s no way it has the defense to even slow down Michael Floyd, Cierre Wood, Jonas Gray and company. The only worry is that the Irish secondary may struggle to contain quarterback Tanner Price, who has the capability to make Notre Dame pay if it misses a coverage. But I don’t have much doubt about this one. I wish I could say the same about conference realignment. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42, Wake Forest 28 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

Allow me to forgo my weekly Pan­dora rift and instead channel my inner Golden Tate, circa last year’s matchup against Western Michi­gan. 
Wake Forest? They don’t even be­long on the same field as us. 
Harsh, but true. Even I, the ever-pessimist, believe this. Yes, Notre 

Dame tends to play down to its op­ponent. Yes, the Demon Deacons topped Florida State. So yes, perhaps there is reason to worry. 
But the drama of the last two weeks has created a focused Irish team, offense and defense. Look for a Pur­due-esque blowout down in Winston-Salem. Look for a fast start by Rees and Floyd, and look for Notre Dame to never again play in such a small stadium as BB&T Stadium, holding only 31,000-plus. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Wake Forest 10 
Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 

It’s amazing how much can change in a week. After the USC game, the Irish were in strife. Their defense had been dismantled, their quarterback sidelined, and their coach started pointing fingers. 
A week later, Notre Dame was back to beating teams it’s supposed to beat and doing it in decisive 
fashion. 

Wake Forest is another one of those teams that Notre Dame is supposed to beat. Its defense is mediocre, its running game is suspect and its home field advantage is nearly non-existent in the smallest stadium among BCS conference teams. 
The familiar names will be there — Floyd, Eifert, Te’o. Wake Forest simply does not have the athletes to keep up. The Irish will win another game they are sup­posed to win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42, Wake Forest 31 

WAKE FOREST OFFENSIVE WAKE FOREST RUSHING WAKE FOREST PASSING COACHING The Demon Deacons’ offensive Sophomore quarterback Tan-
Notre Dame defensive coordi-focus is on the passing game, as ner Price has had a breakout nator Bob Diaco has his defense Wake Forest averages just 104 season for the Demon Deacons, playing physical and smart, but rushing yards per game, good slinging 14 touchdowns and just Wake Forest coach Jim Grobe for merely 106th in the nation. six interceptions at a healthy 
o-Head has developed quarterback Tan-Sophomore running back back clip of 246 yards per game. 
ner Price quickly. After last Josh Harris and senior run-Price is coming off two subpar week’s performance against ning back Brandon Pendergrass performances but has a deep Navy, though, it’s hard to doubt spearhead the Demon Deacon and talented receiving corps to Diaco. ground attack. Harris aver-look to. 
ages 70 yards per game on 4.5 Senior receiver Chris Givens EDGE: NOTRE DAME yards per carry, but he has just has had the best eight-game two touchdowns on the season. season-opening stretch in Wake Wake Forest Defense Sophomore quarterback Tan-Forest history and is on pace to ner Price generally stays in the blow by the school record for pocket rather than scrambling receiving yards. Senior Danny for yards. Dembry, junior Terrence Davis The Notre Dame defense and sophomore Michael Campa­7 Merrill Noel        R-Fr. turned a lot of heads last week naro have also had career-best CB 14 Jason Green  R-So. when it shut down the Navy tri-seasons in a prolific Wake For­
4 Josh Bush  R-Sr. 
ple option missing both senior est aerial attack. 
FS 
23 Daniel Mack  R-So. 
defensive ends. While Kapron While senior cornerback Rob-Lewis-Moore is out for the sea-ert Blanton has played well all 
40 Joey Ehrmann  R-Jr. 
OLB son, Ethan Johnson continues season long, the rest of the sec­
49 Derricus Ellis  R- Jr. 
to work back towards health — ondary has struggled at times but the Irish are holding up just against high-powered passing 55 Tristan Dorty  R-Sr. 32 Scott Betros  R-Jr. fine without him. Both the line-attacks. Senior cornerback Gary 
DE 54 Kris Redding  R-So. ILB 41 Mike Olson  R-So. 
backers and young defensive Gray has been inconsistent, but linemen are shedding blocks the true key to this matchup is 
NG 
50 Nikita Whitlock R-So. 
and filling gaps with tenacity. the Notre Dame nickel package, 
93 Frank Souza   R-So. 
45 Riley Haynes  R-Jr. Running backs are finding little which will see a lot of field time ILB running room against the Notre this weekend to try and slow 
39 Justin Jackson  R-So. 
40 Joey Ehrmann  R-Jr. 
Dame front seven, and that will down the passing game. 
DE 57 Gelo Orange R-Sr. 
not change this weekend. 
40 Kyle Wilber  R-Sr. EDGE: NOTRE DAME EDGE: WAKE FOREST 
OLB 35 Zachary Allen  R-So. 
5 Cyhl Quarles  R-Sr. WAKE FOREST SCHEDULE 
SS 34 Duran Lowe  R-So. Sept. 1 @ Syracuse (L, 36-29, OT) Sept. 10 North Carolina State 6 Kenny Okoro  R-Jr. (W, 34-27) 
CB WAKE FOREST SPECIAL TEAMS 
17 A.J. Marshall So. Sept. 17 Gardner-Webb 
The Demon Deacons average 19.7 yards per kick return and 5.4 
(W, 48-5) yards per punt return, putting them near the bottom of the nation Oct. 1 @ Boston College in return yards. Notre Dame’s coverage units have not been spec­(W, 27-19) tacular, but they have been playing solidly with good kickoffs from Oct. 8 Florida State 

Kyle Brindza and punts from Ben Turk. 
(W, 35-30) Wake Forest junior kicker Jimmy Newman has hit 14 of his 15 Oct. 15 Virginia Tech field goal attempts on the season and has hit 13 consecutive kicks. 

(L, 38-17) However, Newman’s long is just 40 yards, so his accuracy beyond Oct. 22 @ Duke Wake Forest Offense that is hard to gauge. 

(W, 24-23) Oct. 29 @ North Carolina 
EDGE: EVEN 

WR 
2 Chris Givens  R-Jr. (L, 29-24) 
81 Terence Davis  R-Jr. Nov. 5 Notre Dame Nov. 12 @ Clemson Nov. 19 Maryland Nov. 26 Vanderbilt 
83 Cameron Ford  R-Sr. 
80 Andrew Parker Sr. 



TE Wake Forest Specialists 
RT 
62 Doug Weaver  R-Sr. 
76 Daniel Blitch  R-Fr. 
82 Jimmy Newman Jr. 

42 Tommy Bohanon Jr. 
75 Michael Hoag                R-Sr. 
RGFB PK
44 Ben Emert  R-Fr. 
68 Colin Summers  R-Fr. 
P 
24 Alex Wulfeck R-So. 66 Chance Raines Sr. 10 Tanner Price So. 

C QB
74 Garrick Williams  R-Jr. 13 Ted Stachitas  R-Jr. 
52 Logan Feimster R-Fr. 

78 Joe Looney Sr. LS
LG 22 Brandon Pendergrass    R-Sr. 
59 Antonio Ford  R-Fr. 
RB 
25 Josh Harris  R-So. 
20 Lovell Jackson R-Jr. 

LT 
69 Dennis Godfrey  R-Sr. 
PR 
73 Steven Chase  R-So. 
KR 
20 Lovell Jackson R-Jr. 
82 Jimmy Newman Jr. 

2 Danny Dembry  R-Sr. KOWR 3 MichaelCampanaro R-So. 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

With a stadium that holds only 31,500 fans and a national audience even smaller than that because it goes up against the LSU-Alabama showdown, this game will demand little national attention. 
A 5-3 Notre Dame team almost certainly locked into a Champs Sports Bowl bid goes up against a 
5-3 Wake Forest squad that is still holding onto ACC Championship hopes in a very medio­cre conference. Not that exciting. 
But that’s fine. After a tense weeklong stretch that started with a disappointing loss to USC, continued with “Twittergate” and culminated with a 56-14 blowout of Navy, Brian Kelly and the players must be enjoying the calmness of the past week. It will show Saturday night as the Irish continue Kelly’s November unbeaten streak. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Wake Forest 13 
Chris Masoud 

Assistant Managing Editor 

Taking the road for the first time in a month, the Irish will play in front of the smallest crowd of the season when they take on a Wake Forest team still fighting for the ACC title. BB&T Field, home of the Demon Dea­cons, seats 31,500. The Big House seated 114,804 — an NCAA atten­dance record — for Notre Dame’s 
matchup under the lights. 

Seating capacity is my biggest concern going into Sat­urday night’s contest. It’s really a shame so few will be on hand to see Notre Dame’s first complete performance of the season. I’m calling it right now — no turnovers and at least 400 yards of offense against a porous Wake defense. Look for a secondary led by North Carolina native Rob­ert Blanton to force a turnover and at least one coverage sack. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42, Wake Forest 6 




Price makes strides for Wake 




By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Just as Tommy Rees went from high school quarter­back to starting college sig­nal caller in less than a year, Tanner Price was thrown to the wolves in his rookie 2010 campaign, and contin­ues to progress at the posi­tion for the Demon Deacons. 
Wake Forest’s sophomore quarterback has improved upon last year’s totals of seven touchdowns and eight interceptions, as he has re­corded 14 touchdowns to just six interceptions in 2011. 
Demon Deacons coach Jim Grobe said one of the key components to Price’s success this year is the im­proved play of his team­mates. 
“He’s got a little better help, I think,” Grobe said. “Last year I tried to tell ev­erybody I thought Tanner was potentially going to be a good quarterback for us, but we need to give him more help. I think he’s getting a little more support out of the guys around him than he did last year, but also he’s North Carolina on Saturday. 
“Last year, I think there were some situations where he tried to force throws, and he’s trying not to do that [this year],” Grobe said. “So far he’s taking care of the ball pretty good. He just has a better understanding of our offense right now. I 
think he has a pretty good feel for what we’re trying to do offen­sively, and what we’re asking him to do. 
“It’s just about what you would ex­pect out of a kid that’s got a year of ex­perience un­der his belt.” 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said he no­ticed some similarities 
just mak­ing better decisions. He’s tak­ing better care of the football. 
Grobe said the matura ­tion of Price has helped Wake For­est im­prove from its 3-9 record last year to a 5-3 start this 
“Last year, I think there were some situations where he tried to force throws, and he’s not trying to do that [this year]. So he’s taking care of the ball pretty good.” 
Jim Grobe Demon Deacons coach 

“I feel pretty confident right now. A lot of that confidence comes from my teammates. The offensive line is doing an unbelievable job for me and the receivers are making great catches.” 
Tanner Price sophomore quarterback 
between his signal caller and Price midway through their sophomore campaigns. “I think … they’re both 
learning,” Kel­ly said after quipping that Price is a lefty and taller than Rees. “They’re both experi­encing. They’re both young in the process, but they’re both the start­ing quarter­backs. Both teams are hav­ing some suc­cess. We want more; they want more. 
“But I think that’s the na­
season. The Demon Deacons ture of a quarterback that’s control their own destiny gaining experience. So I for an ACC Championship think there are some simi­with two conference games larities there.” remaining, despite a 49-24 Price credits his team-shellacking at the hands of mates and coaching staff with accelerating his devel­opment and helping him to succeed this season. 
“I feel pretty confident right now,” Price said. “A lot of that confidence comes from my teammates. The of­fensive line is doing an un­believable job for me and the receivers are making great 
catches. It’s a team ef­fort and I think as a team we’re feeling very confident right now. 
“The coachi ng staff has done a won­derful job … prepar­ing us for each week. They come up with a great game plan and scheme. They’ve 
also done a good job of keep­ing us motivated and fo­cused.” 
Price’s favorite target has been redshirt junior receiv­er Chris Givens, as the two have found a groove and connected 52 times for 928 yards and eight touchdowns in eight games. Givens said he does not expect the blow­out loss the Tar Heels to af­fect the young quarterback’s mindset as the team pre­pares for one of the biggest home games in school his­tory against Notre Dame. 
“We’re really just putting Saturday behind us,” Giv­ens said. “We had a lot of mistakes on Saturday and we fixed them [Tuesday] in practice. We’re going to continue to build him up by playing hard, running routes hard and doing the best things that we can for him.” 

Contact Andrew Owens at                  aowens2@nd.edu 




Irish special teams play improves after rough start 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Senior safety Chris Salvi reacts after a special teams play in a 56-14 Irish victory against Navy on Oct. 29. The walk-on has recorded six tackles in eight games and was named gameday captain by Irish coach Brian Kelly against the Midshipmen. He made two tackles against Navy. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
The last time Notre Dame took to the road, a 38-10 vic­tory at Purdue, the Irish lost three yards on two punt re­turns, the front line allowed a field goal to be blocked and senior kicker David Ruffer shanked a field goal attempt. 
Two wins, a loss and a bye week later, the special teams unit has shored up its former flaws and looks to provide much-needed consistency across the board. 
“I think that the improve­ment has come from better execution from the specialists and better execution from the guys blocking — guys play­ing harder, more consistent,” special teams coordinator Mike Elston said. “Our spe­cialists are playing a lot bet­ter, from snapper to punter to kicker to returner. I think they’ve settled down a little bit and built some confidence, and it has allowed the cover teams to do their jobs.” 
Ruffer has settled into a groove after converting his last three attempts, as he looks to return to his 2010 from when he tallied 23 straight field goals. Junior punter Ben Turk has slowly improved his average to 38.2 yards per attempt, and Elston attributes his recent success to improved snapping. 
“David has proven that he can do it, but Ben has yet to prove that he can consistent­ly do it in the game. It’s just about building confidence and getting out there,” Elston said. 
Although freshman kick­er Kyle Brindza has shown flashes of brilliance, Elston said he still needs to develop the reliability to deliver a kickoff to the opponent’s goal line. 
“[Brindza] just needs to relax and stop trying to over kick the ball. I don’t care if it’s a touchback. It doesn’t need to go in the end zone, but it needs to get down to the goal line at the angle at which we say to put it.” ods of any kind, but the walk-
But perhaps the most strik-on has filled a number of key ing difference on special roles for the Irish on special teams has been the emer-teams. After shuffling in and gence of freshman running out of the lineup earlier in the back George Atkinson on the season, Salvi has emerged as kickoff return team. After re-a mainstay on special teams turning touchdowns against and was named a gameday Michigan State and USC, the captain prior to Notre Dame’s freshman ranks third for the victory over Navy last Satur-Irish with 672 all-purpose day. yards and has emerged as a “It meant a lot to me be-threat on every kick. cause this program is impor-
Outside of kicking special-tant to me,” Salvi said. “One ists, recruiting coordinator of the best parts of when they Chuck Martin announced said special it [was] the teams roles support are filled by from all the skill players other play-rather than “It meant a lot to me ers. Being traditional because this program able to see recr uiti ng is important to me. how much methods. we care 
One of the best parts of 
“You really about one 
when they announced it 
don’t spend another and 
[was] the support from 
a ton of time how much 
all the other players” 
saying, ‘Hey, we support we’re going one another to take this Chris Salvi — it’s awe-kid because senior safety some.” 

he’d be great at special teams.’ You hope you re­cruit enough skill guys and defensive guys that they’ll just do it,” recruit­ing coordinator Chuck Mar­tin said. “As much as coach Elston would love to say, ‘Hey, let’s take three or four gun­ners,’ usually you just get your [defensive backs] and your wide outs, and they do a good enough job.” 
Elston, who also serves as the lead recruiter of North Carolina, said the Tar Heel state has been a great source of talent for Notre Dame in the past, including senior cornerback Robert Blanton. 
“We’ve had success in the Charlotte area and the Ra­leigh area,” he said. “The lo­cation is nice because with those big cities, there’re flights into South Bend. There’s a draw because Notre Dame is visible.” 
A transfer from Butler, se­nior safety Chris Salvi is not a product of recruiting meth-Martin at­
tributes Sal­
vi’s success 
to his tough­
ness and willingness to “run through a wall” if asked. 
“He gets the most out of what God gave him,” Mar­tin said. “He’s not the most-gifted kid as far as physical tools, but he’s probably as mentally tough and physical­ly tough as any kid we have in our program. He just kind of bided his time, and coach Elston had a lot of confidence in him.” 
Although the Irish have yet to prove they can carry their recent consistency on special teams on the road, Elston said the message and execution in practice has been the same. 
“There’s no difference for us when we go on the road,” he said. “We just have to con­tinue to grow and continue to improve. We can’t take a step back this week.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 





