the 
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND collects nearly $2 billion 
Alumni donations to the University reach over $116 million from 2009 to 2010 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
Despite the economic down­turn in recent years, the Development Office will finish its current campaign above its goal for financial donations to the University, and the Student Development Committee thanked the University’s gener­ousgraduatesMonday. 
The 2010 Stewardship Report from the Development Office reported $227.5 million was donated to the University from 2009to2010. 
Notre Dame alumni donated over $116 million of those funds,thereportsaid. 
“We are fortunate that our 

see ALUMNI/page 4 BRANDON KEELEAN I Observer Graphic 




University students face felony charges 
Observer Staff Report 
Police arrested three Notre Dame students on felony charges for providing alcohol to minors early Sunday morning, according to South Bendpolicelogs. 
One 19-year-old male was also arrested on a misde­meanor charge for the same offense. Of the three arrested on felony charges, one was 
see ARRESTS/page 5 



International career fair encourages networking 
Institute has held in several them to people in international make contacts that they will national career,” senior John 

By CARLY LANDON 
years. business rather than actually thenfollowupwithandcontin-Villeccosaid.“Iguessyoucould 
News Writer 
“Shannon Coyne and attemptingtoplacetheminjob ue the conversation. They say that when you’re actively Stephanie Mulhern are two positions. shouldn’t be done after this aware of the implications of 

The International Career seniors in the Kellogg Institute “We aren’t giving students evening,”Riverssaid. your actions on other countries Night is about networking for programs, and a few months jobs,” she said. “What we are International careers can be and change your thoughts careers abroad, Holly Rivers, ago they basically came to me doingisprovidingstudentswith in the United States or actually based on it, that’s an interna­assistantdirectoroftheKellogg and asked if we could do this people and speakers who have abroad. Many of the students tionalcareer.” Institute,said. fair again this year,” Rivers experience and will talk about and faculty at the event had Students said the fair was a 
The career fair, which said. “They sat down with me it to give students guidance in theirownideasofwhatmadea great experience and guiding focused on jobs in Africa, Asia and decided the topics of choosing international careerinternational. toolfortheirendeavors. and Latin America, occurred speeches. If they hadn’t asked careers.” “Any career in which your “I’ve spent a significant Monday night at the Hesburgh me,wewouldn’tbedoingit.” Rivers said the aim of the decisions and your actions amountoftimeabroad,andI’m CenterforInternationalStudies This year the fair focused event is to provide networking either directly or indirectly just fascinated by other cul­from4:30to7:30p.m. more on introducing students opportunities. influence people in other coun­
Thisyear’sfairisthefirstthe totypesofjobsandintroducing “The goal is for students to triesiswhatIthinkisaninter-see FAIR/page 5 

SMCsenior discusses anorexia 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Eating disorders can take on a life of their own, Saint Mary’s senior Christina Grasso said of her experi­encesbattlinganorexia. 
Grasso spoke during “Biting Back,” alectureand panel discussion about eat­ing disorders held Monday in Carroll Auditorium in 
see LECTURE/page 5 


Soler, Bell prepare for end of term 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
As student body president CatherineSolerandvicepresident Andrew Bell’s administration nears the end of its term, Soler saidsheplanstocontinuepursu­ingtheirobjectivesandinitiatives. 
Soler and Bell are set to leave officeonApril1andwillconcen­trate on finalizing an agreement withlocallawenforcement,build­ing onthe Campus LifeCouncil’s 
(CLC) recent work with sexual assaultpreventionandcontinuing effortswithcampusrenovations. 
Soler said aformal agreement withlawenforcement—theprod­

see SOLER/page 4 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND club begins quesadilla sales page 3  A guide to the royal wedding page 9  Women’s basketball bouncing back page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 22, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW  O ULAR ARE YOU?

THE OBSERVER 





P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 



SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Emily Schrank Andrew Owens Melissa Flanagan Katie Heit 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Maria Fernandez 

Photo Viewpoint 
Ashley Dacy Meghan Thomassen 


OFFBEAT 
Wyoming uphill skier arrested 
JACKSON — A 78-year-old retired doctor was hand­cuffed and hauled away on a toboggan for skiing uphill in Wyoming, but he won't face charges. 
Roland Fleck of Jackson was arrested the morning of Feb. 5 after refusing ski patrollers' orders to stop. Jackson Hole Resort officials say avalanche danger and the presence of grooming machines made it unsafe. 
Skiers can get uphill with snow-gripping "skins" on their skis, among other methods. 
The Jackson Hole News & Guide says Fleck was jailed on charges of trespass, interference, unsafe skiing 
AJ McGauley  Maguire Padley  TJ Record  Will Salvi  
senior  junior  sophomore  sophomore  
off campus  Badin  Morrissey  Dillon  

“I don’t think  “I am not very  “I would say  “I don’t think a  
the word  well-known.”  that I have a  word describes  
popular is  good group of  how popular I  
strong enough  friends.”  am.”  
to describe me.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

and theft of services. 
Resort officials say they won't press charges because Fleck's removal resolved their complaint. Sheriff Jim Whalen says he sees no need for prosecution. 
Doctors remove knife from man’s head after 4 years 
BEIJING — Surgeons in southern China successfully removed a rusty, 4-inch (10­centimeter) knife from the skull of a man who said it had been stuck in there for four years, the hospital said Friday. 
Li Fuyan, 30, had been suffering from severe headaches, bad breath and breathing difficulties but never knew the cause of his discomfort, said the senior official at the Yuxi City People's Hospital in Yunnan Province. 
Li told doctors he had been stabbed in the lower right jaw by a robber four years ago and the blade broke off inside his head without anyone realizing it, said the director of the hos­pital's Communist Party committee's office who would only give his sur­name, He. 
Surgeons worked cau­tiously to remove the badly-corroded blade without shattering it, He said. The hospital's website also reported the successful sur­gery. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture “Achieving Peace through Justice: Reflections on International Criminal Tribunals” will be given today at 4 p.m. It will be given by Rosette Muzigo-Morrison, class of 1993, who is currently a legal officer for the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. It will take place at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The quarterfinals of the 81st Anniversary Bengal Bouts will take place today at 5 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets are $5 for students and children and $7 for adults. Proceeds go to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
A lecture on Evil and the Healing Ministry of Exorcism will be given by Fr. Jeffrey Grob, J.C.D., priest of the Archdiocese of Chicago tomor­row at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The lec­ture is sponsored by Morrissey Hall and Campus Ministry. 
A Mass of Healing will take place tomorrow as part of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. The mass will begin at 10 p.m. in the Dillon Hall Chapel. Both the sacraments of Eucharist and Annointing of the Sick will be celebrated. 
The film “Last Train Home” (2009) will be shown in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday at 7 p.m. The film documents the jour­ney of a Chinese couple strug­gling to reunite with their estranged children. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 
Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 




CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 

28 24 HIGH 36 37 28 28 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


17 17 LOW 32 26 22 20 






Tuesday, February 22, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





ND club begins quesadilla sales 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
While many students looking for an inexpensive, late-night snack head to The Huddle for Midnight Dogs, they can now find another option in a rather unlikely place — the Knights of Columbus building on South Quad. 
Sophomores Patrick Adams and Bobby Thompson, both officers in Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus Council 1477, originally had the idea to sell que­
quesadilla sales will increase the visibility of the Knights of Columbus on campus. 
“We want to make more use of the building for the community and for charity,” he said. “I think we come across as being relatively aloof or secluded, and we’re trying to break that exclusive image.” 
While “Dollar Dillaz” currently features only cheese quesadillas, Thompson said he hopes to even­tually expand to have a full Mexican menu. 
“The only thing really lacking on 
campus is 

sadillas out of Mexican
“We want to make more 
the building last food,” he 
use of the 
year. After a said. “Most lengthy building for the people don’t approval want to drive 
community and for 
process through to Taco Bell, the Student charity.” so that was Activities Office our motiva­(SAO), “Dollar Bobby Thompson tion behind Dillaz” will offi-it.” 
offcer 
cially open for Adams said 
Knights of Columbus Council 1477 
business SAO only 
Thursday night. 
“We submitted an SAO request and it took a while to get the food permit,” Adams said. “But every­thing worked out.” 
Adams said they have done trial runs just within the Council during the last two weeks and have received an overall positive response. 
“Once we expand it to everyone else, we want it to catch on,” he said. 
Thompson said he hopes the 
gave the Knights of Columbus approval to sell quesadillas one night during the week. After spring break, SAO will review the operation and con­sider expanding it, he said. 
“Dollar Dillaz” will be open every Thursday night from 10:30 
p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Proceeds from the Knights of Columbus quesadil­la sales will be donated to charity. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 



SMC honors influential women 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board (SDB) is host­ing Women’s Appreciation Week to honor history’s influ­ential women, chair of Women’s Appreciation Week Brittani Hradski, a sopho­more, said. 
“This week is to appreciate not only women that have changed history, especially for our gender, but also to acknowledge our own capa­bilities. … It is to recognize and celebrate our strengths and power as strong, inde­pendent young women,” Hradski said. 
History professor Jessica Weaver kicked off the week with a lecture Monday titled “Professionalization of Womanhood: Women as Doctors and Nurses in the 19th Century.” 
The lecture discussed the lives of Florence Nightingale and Elizabeth Blackwell, and their struggles for admit­tance into the health care field. 
According to Weaver, both women understood the importance of independence, but also the importance of a woman’s entry into the heal­ing profession. 
Nightingale and Blackwell lived in a time when there was an ideal description that fit all women, that varies from today’s standards. 
“A woman marries a man, becomes a mother … par­takes in feminine hobbies and is a good hostess,” Weaver said. 
However, Weaver said both Nightingale and Blackwell used this feminine ideal to reinforce their idea that women 
“Lectures like this 
belonged in the In addition to field. are empowering in Weaver’s lec ­
“Healing ture, two more 
order to know 
requires femi -events will high-
where we’ve come 
nine virtues,” light this theme. Weaver said, from, as well as to SDB will show “and women “The Women” at 
instill in us a 
were already 8 p.m. in Carroll 
fundamental 
maintaining the Audi torium health of their understanding of Wednesday. family. Women’s The board will 
where we need to 
modesty can host an open 
go.” 
[also] only be house with the retained with Belles Against female physi -Mona Rodriguez Violence Office cians.” (BAVO)
junior 
Both women set precedents for the role of women in today’s medical field. 
Mona Rodriguez, a junior biology major, said the talk was enlightening but also pointed to larger issues fac­ing women in the medial field. 
“The lecture showed me that we haven’t come full cir­cle. The health field is still severely lacking women doc­tors and nurses. Work still needs to be done,” Rodriguez said. 
Rodriguez also said the lec­ture was particularly impor­tant for students of a women’s college. 
“Saint Mary’s creates inde­pendent women,” Rodriguez said. “Lectures like this are empowering in order to know where we’ve come from, as well as to instill in us a fun­damental understanding of 
where we need 
to go.” 
Thursday. This 
event will take place in the Women’s Resource Room on the second floor of the Student Center. 
Board members will also be in the Student Center during lunch and dinner handing out chocolates and inspirational quotes to “highlight the sweetness in all of us,” Hradsky said. 
At the end of the week, SDB plans to make a donation to the YWCA of South Bend. 
All events are free and open to the public. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 22, 2011 
of a donor and writes a personal the first school in higher educa-“We have done a very good job grams, endowed professorships, 
letter for that person. tion without a medical school to with our Internet approach,” he library improvements, student 
Alumni 
continued from page 1 
alumni giving rate has always been — in the past 20 and plus years — in the top three schools in the country,” Lou Nanni, vice president of University Relations, said. “Princeton, Dartmouth and Notre Dame are in the mix for the highest alumni giving rates.” 
Sylvia Banda, Maria Sellers and Maggie Nettesheim, co-chairs of the Student Development Committee organ­ized “Thanksgiving in February,” a chance for students to write thank-you notes to alumni donors. 
“We run ‘Thanksgiving in February’ to thank alumni for their monetary gifts to the University,” Banda said. “Our goal for this year is to send over 1,000 thank-you notes.” 
The committee set up thank-you notes on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center for students to fill out as they pass through the building. Banda said each student receives the name 


Soler 
continued from page 1 
uct of a year of community rela­tions work through the beND cam­paign — is expected shortly. 
“We definitely want to continue our push for the agreement with the local law enforcement, the University and student govern­ment to have regular conversa­tions,” she said. “We have meet­ings coming up with the Indiana State Excise Police to get them on board, but basically making that a legitimate agreement is definitely something we want to finish.” 
Soler said while the work with law enforcement has been slower than the administration had origi­nally hoped, she is pleased with how relations have progressed this year. 
“One of the things we were sur­prised with is the amount of time it takes to create something like our agreement with the police. To us, it seemed like it should be automatic, with everyone being so on board,” she said. “But we’ve seen the process of getting things completed, not for lack of interest, but just the difficulty of navigating through administration and com­munity affairs that students don’t normally get involved in.” 
Bell said he thought the beND campaign had made an impact on the larger problem of yearly fluc­tuations in student arrests. 
“We think this is a really impor­tant step toward ending a problem that comes up [every few years],” he said. “In the time we’ve been here, there hasn’t been a spike in arrests until this year, but as we’ve done our research and gotten a more historical perspective, we see this is a recurring problem.” 
Soler said she hopes, despite the short period left in her term, to make significant headway with CLC’s sexual assault prevention work. 
“Our focus on sexual assault [with] CLC is sort of a new project, but definitely something we want to make a lot of progress on in the time we have left, considering CLC goes until the end of the year,” she said. 
Also in collaboration with CLC, Soler said she anticipates changes in how the administration serves off-campus students. 
“On CLC, we’re pushing for more administrative attention to off-campus students, and that will be coming through a resolution,” she said. 
Bell said he also hopes to contin­ue working toward ongoing cam­
“The letters are signed by a student,” Sellers said. “Each let­ter tells their personal story, their year and their major. It lets donors know their dollars are being put to good use.” 
The Spirit of Notre Dame cam­paign began quietly in July 2004, Nanni said. Key donors made significant lead gifts to the University during the campaign’s first three years, and the project was officially unveiled on a large scale in May 2007. 
The seven-year campaign set a goal for $1.5 billion, Nanni said. 
“To date, we have raised about $1,946,000,000,” he said. “We are about four and a half months from completing the campaign.” 
Economic concerns helped the Development Office make better strategic decisions, Nanni said. 
“We saw what most other schools saw,” he said. “We saw a drop in donations since 2008 that was about a 20 to 25 per­cent range across the board.” 
If the Spirit of Notre Dame Campaign surpasses $2 billion by its end, Notre Dame will be reach this mark, Nanni said. 
The Development has two divi­sions. 
“One division would be what we could call advancement serv­ices and communications. This would include many of the sup­port operations,” Nanni said. “The other division would be all of our fundraisers that work on cultivating one-to-one relation­ships, that work with individu­als, families, corporate entities and foundations. They would work on gifts that would be multi-year gifts of $100,000 and above.” 
The Annual Fund also falls under this first division, Nanni said. This fund includes all gifts collected on a smaller scale from outreach to over 250,000 alum­ni, parents and friends of the University. Donors to the Annual Fund contribute through the Internet, mailings, the Phone Center and the Alumni Association. The Annual Fund also includes giving societies that specifically direct member gifts to certain areas of campus life. 
pus improvements, such as the further those initiatives, and I just addition of lights to McGlinn Fields hope there’s a lot of emphasis and and further renovations to the focus from the next administration DeBartolo Lounge. in continuing and improving those 
“Those things obviously won’t relationships even more,” she be done before April 1, but we said. “We hope that since it’s been really just want to lay the ground-such a help this year and we’ve work so that even when we’re out received such a positive response, of office those things will happen,” that it will be a priority.” he said. Soler said it was important for 
Soler said she thinks the admin-student government to stay true to istration’s efforts have accelerated the basic services students expect 
both projects.  from it.  
“I think that  “We  hope  
we were ambi­ “I think that we were  that a lot of the  
tious in our D e B a r t o l o Lounge goals as  ambitious in our DeBartolo Lounge goals  programs we started that really served  
far as the time- as far as the timeline.”  student needs,  
line,” she said.  but may not be  
“But we’re pleased where things are in  Catherine Soler student body president  as elaborate or grand as some other things, do  
terms of getting  continue,” she  
that pushed up  said. “I hope  
in the order of  that our work  

renovations at the University, and with Transpo, the discount pro­I’d say the same thing about the gram, giving input on Rent-a-Text, lights in McGlinn Fields.” and other things like Whine Week 
After turnover, Soler said she will continue, because they’re hopes the next administration will important and it’s what students build off the progress made expect of their student govern-throughout the year, especially ment.” with regards to community out-Soler said she sees the last reach and dialogue with law month of her term as an opportu­enforcement. nity to complete or advance some 
“The beND campaign did a lot to of her administration’s objectives said. “In the last couple of years we have finished second in the nation after Stanford in terms of the total amounts of funds raised via the Internet.” 

Donors can direct their gifts to a specific area of spending, such as a scholarship or a particular building project. 
“An unrestricted gift is the most pliable,” he said. “It allows us to address what the most crit­ical priorities, needs and oppor­tunities are at the University.” 
Financial aid is the first priori­ty for the Development Office, Nanni said. The Admissions Department reviews applications from prospective students on a need-blind basis, and Nanni said the University promised to meet 100 percent of the demonstrated financial need for its students. 
“Because of that policy, it has forced us to raise more money and generate more resources to help make a Notre Dame educa­tion more accessible,” he said. 
Gifts may also be directed to programs for undergraduate research funding, academic pro-life and athletic facilities. 
“Every student, even as a full-paying student, is receiving financial aid,” Nanni said. “The annual operating budget for the University is $1 billion, and even if every student paid full tuition, these funds would still not come close to the billion dollar cost. So we have to raise money.” 
Nanni said the Development Office is inspired by the unique place Notre Dame occupies in higher education. 
“The same cohort of schools has been ranked in the top 20 undergraduate universities, and Notre Dame has been and con­tinues to be the only school on that list that has a religious affil­iation,” he said. “What we are about is a unique experiment in higher education. We feel very committed to preserving and strengthening Notre Dame’s niche in the church and in the world of higher education.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
while also assisting the next administration’s transition. 
“We want to finish our term strong, to continue to work until the last day, doing the best we can to prepare the next administration to continue the work we’ve done while being able to complete the newer goals we’ve set for our­selves,” she said. 
Junior Pat McCormick and sophomore Brett Rocheleau assume the roles of student body president and vice president, respectively, April 1. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 22, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
school and reached the peak addition, she used laxatives well,” she said. Grasso still struggles with 
of her disease in college. to continue to lose weight. Finally, Grasso ’s family her eating disorder and said 


Lecture 
continued from page 1 
Madeleva Hall. The event was part of the College ’s Love Your Body Week. 
During the lecture, Grasso described her battle with anorexia. 
“You will stand in front of the mirror for hours, not out of vanity, but of disgust,” she said. 
Grasso said she began bat­tling with body image when she was 7 years old. With her three main interests of dance, gymnastics and fash­ion, Grasso said she felt pressure to have the right type of body to pursue those interests. At seven, Grasso went on her first diet. 
At 13, she explained how she began struggling with anorexia. She continued to struggle throughout high 

Fair 
continued from page 1 
tures,” junior Hilary Kelly said. “I’ve gotten a lot of tips on how to network and find contacts, and lots of info on what to do and how to prepare.” 
Rivers said the fair gave stu­dents the opportunity to see 
“I based my entire worth on my appearance,” she said. 
Grasso said she had a skewed perception of herself, which caused her to continue to desire to lose more weight. 
“I had no accurate concept 
of what my body actually looked like,” she said. “Every mirror had a funhouse effect.” 
She said she desired food, but a voice inside her head hindered her. She described her experience studying abroad in Italy, and how she refrained from eating any pasta, pastries or pizza dur­ing her time there. 
“I wanted to eat. I wanted to live, but I felt powerless over my illness,” she said. 
Struggling not only with failing to eat, Grasso said she also over-exerted herself with exhausting exercise. In 
what skill sets are needed in international careers. 
“The Kellogg Center created the event to give student the opportunity to see how interna­tional careers can help them use languages, academic skills and experience in a career set­ting,” Rivers said. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 
Grasso said the eating dis-became extremely concerned order didn’t just affect her and forced her into rehabili­body, but her mind and spirit tation. After a summer of as well. treatment and support from 
“Your fear of eating is liter-her parents, Grasso began to ally eating eat again. you,” she said. “With their 
With her unconditional 
“I believe it is more 
heart rate love paired falling to a important to emphasize with round ­mere 35 beats th e-clock­
that there is so much 
per minute care, I slowly 
more to be lost with an 
during her ill-began eating ness, she said eating disorder than again, ” she she knew the said. 
just weight” 
disease was After spend-slowly killing ing the sum ­her. Christina Grasso mer in reha ­
She senior bilit ati on, explained that G r a s s o though she returned to had many the College wake -up calls, she wasn’t and relapsed. She returned ready to commit for treat-to treatment and has been ment. better since. Grasso credits 
“I never chose anorexia, her recovery to her family, and I never chose to get friends and doctors. 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
21 years old and two were 22. 
Police busted the party on the 900 Block of East Corby Street at about 1 a.m. The logs listed a 17 -year-old male living in Dillon Hall as the victim of the felony. Four other minors were cited for underage drinking. 
Student arrests for under­age drinking soared in August and September 2010 
— reaching 70 arrests at the peak — but this weekend’s bust is one of the only cases during this school year that resulted in a felony charge for serving minors. 
the disease may affect her for the rest of her life. 
“I may never recover com­pletely, and I certainly will never forget,” she said. 
Grasso said eating disor­ders are about more than just body image. 
“I believe it is more impor­tant to emphasize that there is so much more to be lost with an eating disorder than just weight,” she said. 
At the end of Grasso’s talk, two experts in the field of eating disorders spoke briefly. Valerie Staples, coor­dinator of eating disorder service at Notre Dame, and Gwen DeHorn, of Sonego and Associates in Mishawaka, discussed eating disorders and their effects on individu­als. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@stmarys.edu 
Police arrested 11 and cited nine at a party bust at Irish Row apartments in January. Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle told The Observer ear­lier this year that the University, student govern­ment and local law enforce­ment continue to work together on the issue of stu­dent arrests. 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 6 Tuesday, February 22, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Everything I need to know in life 
Mylong-awaitedJPWhascomeand passed.Theweekendwasablurof eventsandreflectionsontheimpact myparentshavehadonmylife.But inthewakeofallthis,Ithoughtit wouldberudeto ignoreanother important (thoughnot moreimportant —don’tworry MomandDad!) influenceinmy life:James Franco. 

EverythingI Mary Claire O’Donnell 
needtoknow inlifeI Assistant Scene learnedasa Editor 
JamesFranco fan. 

1.Educationisimportant.In2006, FrancoreenrolledatUCLAasan Englishmajorwithacreativewriting concentration.Twoyearslater,he graduatedwithaGPAover3.5.No onewilleverforgetFrancoin “FreaksandGeeks”or“Spiderman,” buthehasundoubtedlyimproved sincebeganhiseducationagain.In theyearsduringandposthiseduca­tionoverhaul,hehasturnedout blockbusterslike“Pineapple Express,”“Milk”and“127Hours,” earningawardshownoticealongthe way. 
2.Majorsarenot. 

AsaClassicsmajor,thislesson mostexcitesme.Althoughhewas alreadyafairlyestablishedactor whenhewentbacktocollege,Franco choseamajorsomewhatunrelatedto hiscareer.Heprovedthatnomatter whatyoustudy,aslongasyouapply yourselfandworkhard,youcango manyplaceswithyourlife. 
3.Wewillenduplikeourparents. 
Inthe“Spiderman”series,Franco playedHarryOsborn,PeterParker’s bestfriendandsonofhisnemesis, theGreenGoblin.Despitehisconnec­tiontoParker,Osbornfollowedinhis father’sfootstepsandbecamethe SecondGreenGoblin,anotherneme­sisofParker’s.Hopefullynoneofour parentsaresecretlysupervillains, butregardless,wewillstillprobably endupchannelingtraitsandactions ofourparentswewouldrathernot. 
4.“Wellbecareful,man.Becare­ful.Wearshoesinthehouse.Safety. Safetyfirst,thenteamwork.” 
Francospokethesewordsofwis­domin2008’s“PineappleExpress”as pot-dealerSaulSilver.AlthoughSaul deliveredthisgemwhileunderthe influence,thesentimentsandlessons stillringtrue.Inlife,safety,loosely translatedhereashappiness,always comesfirst,specificallyforyourself. Sometimes,weneedtoputourown happinessabovetheneedsofothers. Andsometimes,weneedtowork withotherstoachieveourgoals. 
Theseareonlysnippetsofthelife lessonsIhavelearnedfromFranco throughtheyears.Ihavealso learnedtobetolerantandtoperse­vere.Also,thatNavyuniformsare themostattractiveofalltheservice branches.Sothankyou,James Franco,Idon’tknowhowIcould havemadeitto21withoutyou. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marie Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
Ending the R-word 
“SpreadtheWordtoEndtheWord.”At NotreDameandacrosstheworldpeople areunitingtoendthehurtfuluseofthe word“retard.”HereiswhyIamjoining them:InmiddleschoolitfeltlikeIwas giventhekeystothe word.“Swear words”wereofflim­itsatschoolorin frontofmyparents, butsomehowretard toedthelineas appropriate.Some pushedback,includ­ingmymom emphatically,but 

Chris 
oncetheword 
Rhodenbaugh 
becamethecool wayofcalling 
In Pursuit of 
someoneorsome-
Social Justice 
thingstupidthere wasnostoppingit.I neverusedthewordhatefullyatpeople withdisabilities,soIclearedmyselfof responsibilitythatIcouldbehurting someone’sfeelings. 
InhighschoolIstartedvolunteering withSpecialOlympics.Thejudgmentsand preconceptionsIhadaboutpeoplewith disabilitieswerequicklyreplacedbyenor­mousrespectfortheathletesandgrateful­nessfortheenergytheybroughttomylife. WorkingwiththeSpecialOlympicsismy firstmemoryofenjoyingvolunteerwork.I 
lefteverypracticeoreventinspiredby beingaroundsomanypeoplethatseek friendshipswithoutreserveandthatpos­sessafullappreciationforalltheyreceive. Despitemakingfriendswithpeoplewho haveintellectualdisabilitiesandbecoming increasinglyinvolvedinSpecialOlympics,I stillusedther-wordoccasionallyinhigh school.Hearingthewordsooften,my brain’ssubconscioushaddisassociatedit fromthecruelwordpeopleusetoslander ormockthosewithdisabilities.Itwasa challengetoeradicateitfrommyvocabu­lary.ThatwasuntilonedaywhenIwason abusfullofSpecialOlympicsathletes headingdowntoabasketballtournament. Ilaughedatastorytoldtomebyanother volunteerfromacouplerowsupand respondedwithoutthought,“That’sso retarded!” 
Allthatheardmeimmediatelygotquiet andthenacoupleathleteslookedatme andsaidwithutmostseriousness,“Chris, wedon’tusethatword.”Mostpeople neverhavethatmoment.Afterapologizing profusely,Icommittedtomyselftonever saythewordagain.Imadethecommit­mentbecauseitbecamesimpletome; whyshouldweusewordsthatoffendan entirecommunityofpeoplejustbyhearing them?Noneofmyfriends,athletesorvol­unteersonthatbusthoughtIwasusingit hatefully.Theathletesstoppedmebecause theywerewellawareoftheirmedical classificationas“mentallyretarded”and thatsocietyfounditacceptabletomake retardedsynonymouswithstupidor ridiculous. 
Toallthoseconcernedwithcensorship andtheremovalofawordoutofregular discourse,nooneistryingtopoliceyou fromsayingtheword.Insteadweaskyou makeadecisionforyourselfknowingthat simplyoverhearingthewordisoffensive andoftendamagingtoatleastthe5per­centofpeopleintheUSwithanintellectu­aldisabilityandtheirfriendsandfamilies. Thenumberofpeoplewhodisapproveof thewordisgrowing,especiallyatNotre Damewheremorethan2,500students signedapledgelastyeartoendtheiruse ofther-word.SpecialOlympiansandpeo­pleacrosstheworldwhobelieveinthe valueofeverymemberofourhumanfam­ilyareaskingyoutobeafanofrespect. OnEndtheRWordDay,March2,wehope youwillenthusiasticallypledgetoendthe hurtfuluseofthewordretard. 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame’s Progressive Headquarters. He can be con­tacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A Tale of Two Illinois Democrats 
“Itwasthebestoftimes,itwastheworstoftimes.”Theopen­inglineofCharlesDickens’“ATaleofTwoCities”accurately describesthesituationthattwoDemocratsfromIllinois,Sen. RichardDurbinandRep.JanSchakowsky,experiencedasthey participatedinPresidentObama’sdebtcommissionin2010. 
Itwasthebestoftimes:during 
Adam Newman 
2010bothpoliticianswereatthe peakoftheirpoliticalcareers. 
Scientia potentia est 
Durbinwasthesecondhighest DemocratintheSenate,while Schakowskywasalieutenanttothen-HouseSpeakerNancy Pelosi,allowinghermoreinfluencethanothermemberswith equalseniority.BothDurbinandSchakowskypossessedexcellent jobsecurity:Durbinwonre-electionin2008with68percentof thevoteandSchakowskywonre-electionin2010with66per­centofthevote. 
Itwastheworstoftimes:During2010,Americanunemploy­mentwas10percent,theeconomywasweakandlong-termfis­calissuesloomed:thenationaldebtwasanunprecedented$13 trillionandthebudgetdeficitexceeded$1trillion.InJanuary 2010,RepublicanSen.JuddGreggandDemocraticSen.Kent Conradproposedan18-memberSenate“debtcommission”that wouldproposedeficitreductionsolutions.However,seven Republicanco-sponsorswithdrewtheirsupportforthecommis­siondaysbeforethevote,andthecommissionfailedtopass. 
Consequently,PresidentObamacreatedan18-member Presidentialdebtcommissionbyexecutiveorder.ThePresident appointedformerRepublicanSen.AlanSimpsonandformer ClintonChiefofStaffErskineBowlestoco-chairthecommission. Inadditiontotheco-chairs,thePresidentappointedfournon­politiciansandallowedtheDemocratandRepublicanleadersin bothhousesofCongresstoeachappointthreememberstothe commission.Thecommissionwastaskedwithproposingsolu­tionstodecreasebudgetdeficitsto3percentofGDP(the2010 budgetdeficitwasaround10percentofGDP).BothSen.Durbin andRep.Schakowskywereplacedonthecommission. 
ThePresident’scommissionworkedtogetherforsixmonths. TheirworkculminatedonDec.1,2010,whentheco-chairs releasedtheproposal,titled“TheMomentofTruth”.The “MomentofTruth”containedmanypoliticallyunpopularpropos­alsincluding:cutstoentitlementspending,raisingtheretirement age,cutstodefense,closingtaxloopholes,andreformingthe governmentworkforce.Iffullyimplemented,theproposalwould slash$4trillionfromdeficitsanddecreasethebudgetdeficitto 2.3percentofGDPby2020.Theproposalwouldhavestabilized 
thenationaldebtby2014anddecreasedthedebtto60percent ofGDPby2023.(Today,thenationaldebtisnearly100percent ofGDPandstillgrowing.) 
Ultimately,theproposalonlyreceivedelevenvotes,threeshort ofthefourteenvotesrequiredforthemeasuretomoveforward towardsthelegislativeprocess.Rep.Schakowskywasoneofthe memberswhovotedagainsttheproposal.Indefenseofherposi­tion,shestatedinarelease:“[The]proposalwouldhaveserious consequencesforlowerandmiddleclassAmericans,andthatis whyIcannotsupportit.”Sen.Durbin,whosharesacommon progressiveideologywithRep.Schakowsky,votedforthepropos­al.Heexplainedhisdecisioninanop-edintheChicagoTribune: “Thequestionmyclosestpoliticalfriendsareaskingisthis:Why isaprogressivelikeDickDurbinvotingforthisdeficitcommis­sionreport?[Ibelieve]allpoliticians,leftorright,Democrator Republican,havetoacknowledgethedeficitcrisisournation faces…It'stimeforallofustocometogethertomakehard choices.Iamreadytodomypart.”America’sfederalgovern­mentcurrentlyborrows40centsforeverydollarspent.This levelofborrowingisunsustainableandwilleventuallyleadto thedevaluationofAmericanTreasuryBonds.Devaluationcould sparkadebtcrisislargeenoughtodragaweakeconomyintoa newrecession.FormerFedChairmanAlanGreenspanarticulat­edthiswellinlightofthefailedpassageof“TheMomentof Truth”:“IthinksomethingequivalenttowhatErskineBowles andAlanSimpsonputoutisgoingtobepassedbytheCongress. Theonlyquestionis,isitbeforeorafterabondmarketcrisis?” 
IfAmericaistosucceedinsolvingitsfiscalissues,anunprece­dentedlevelofpoliticalcourageisnecessary.Successwillmean politiciansvotingforpoliticallyunpopularandimperfectpiecesof legislation.SuccesswillmeanRepublicansdoingtheunthink­able:raisingtaxes,andsuccesswillmeanDemocratsdoingthe unthinkable:cuttingspending(especiallyentitlementspending). Durbindidtheunthinkable.Schakowskydidn’t. 
“Itwasthebestoftimes,itwastheworstoftimes”isperhaps themostfamousopeninglineinanovel.Manypeoplethough, areunfamiliarwiththesecondlinein“ATaleofTwoCities”— “itwastheageofwisdom,itwastheageoffoolishness.”There maynotbeabetterlinetocontrastSen.DurbinandRep. Schakowsky. 
Adam Newman is a sophomore finance major and can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
OBSERVER POLL 
DoyouplantowatchtheOscarson Sundaynight? 
“We are continually faced with a
Yes,butonlytoseewhateveryone's 
series of great opportunities 
wearing 
brilliantly disguised as insoluble 
Yes,definitely 
problems.” 
Ican’t,butIwantto Noway,Iwouldn’tevergetthattime 
John W. Gardner 
back 
US administrator 
VotebyThursdayat5p.m.at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, February 22, 2011 page 7 
The GreenMan’s Guide to Alcohol and Parties 
DearDomers, 

Normally,I’dcherishanemptyinbox —youknow,onewithoute-mailsfrom theclubsIsignedupforfreshmanyear whoselistservsIjustcan’tbringmyself tounsubscribefromeventhoughI’ve neverattendedasinglemeeting (becausehowdoyoutellsomeonethat youactuallydon’twantbeapartof HabitatforHumanity?).Butlately,the absolutedearthofquestionsyou’vesent mywayhasmefeelingalittleblue, whichisclearlynotinmynature (becauseI’mgreen,right?). 
Inanycase,Irefusetohaveagiant greyboxontheViewpointpagesaying “TheObserverapologizesforthe absenceof‘AsktheGreenMan’”—the comicsalreadywasteenoughpaperthat way.SoI’vechosenmyowntopicthatI thinkmaybeofinteresttothegeneral studentbody:alcohol. 
WithSt.Patrick’sDayonlyamonth away(orslightlymoreforthosecele­bratingonMarch23),greenbeerisdefi­nitelyonthebrain.Thisgotmewonder­ing:howcanIgreenmyalcoholcon­sumptionbeyondjustdumpingsome foodcoloringintomybeverageof choice? 
Sohereitis:TheGreenMan’sGuideto AlcoholandParties. 
First,sothatResLifedoesn’thaveany reasontouncovermytrueidentity,Iwill prefacethesetipsbyre-iteratingthat consumptionofalcoholbythoseunder 21isillegalinthestateofIndiana. Regardlessofage,theover-consumption ofalcoholisdangerous,andcancause seriousdamagetoself,others,andeven thesurroundingenvironment.For starters,theeasiestwaytosignificantly reducethecarbonfootprintofyouralco­holconsumptionisano-brainer:reduce theamountoftransportationdemanded byyourdrinkinghabit. 
Withsomuchofthesocialscenelocat­edonorwithinwalkingdistanceofcam­pus(weatherpermitting),thisone shouldn’tbetoohardformostofusto adopt.Ifgoingoffcampus,choosean establishmentyoucanwalktolike Kildare’s,theBacker,oranearbyhouse. Ifyourpartyingpreferencesrequireyou totravelfarther—andIpromise StudentGovernmentisn’tpayingmeto saythis,but—takeTranspo!Atthevery least,youshouldcompletelyfillyourcab (thisalsoimprovesyourchancesofhag­glingfora$2fare). 
Anotheroptiontodecreaseyourdrink­ing-relatedtravelistocutoutthetripto theliquorstorebybrewingyourown beer.Ittakessomededicationand 
patience,buthomebrewingisafairly simpleandaffordableprocess.Plus, homebrewshelpusembraceanotherkey environmentalprinciple:buyinglocal.By makingyourownbeer,youeliminatethe environmentalimpactofshippingthe beerandyoucandrinkitfromreusable containers.Asanaside,homebrewingis notexpresslydiscussedinDuLac’scur­rentalcoholpolicy. 
Anothertenetofenvironmentalism thatyoumaynotthinkappliestoalcohol butdoes:buyingorganic.Organicbeer andwineareprettywidelyavailable, andorganicbrandsofliquorareout theretoo.Justaswithanyproduct,you shouldtrytoreducepackagingasmuch aspossible.Whenpossible,buyinbulk, ideallykeg-sizedbulk.Kegsareactually aboutasgreenasyoucanget,providing overahundredservingsinasinglecon­tainerthatisreusedoverandover again.Note:pursuanttoDuLac,thistip canonlybefollowedatoff-campusgath­erings.Thetypeofpackagingyouralco­holcomesincanmakeadifferencetoo. Forexample,basedonalife-cycleanaly­sisofwinestoppers,naturalcorkshave thelowestcarbonfootprintfollowedby syntheticplasticcorks.Aluminumscrew capshavebyfarthehighestimpact,so classitupandinvestinacorkscrew. 
Choosingbetweenbottlesandcansis largelyawashbecausebothglassand aluminumcanberecycledinfinitely (unlikepaper,whichcanonlyberecy­cledanaverageseventimesbeforethe fibersbecometooshort).Incaseyou haven’theard,recyclingiskindofagood thing:glassbottlestakeover4,000years todecomposeinalandfill,andevery recycledaluminumcansavesenough energytopoweraT.V.forthreehours. Sofortheloveofallthatisgreen,please recycleyourcans,bottles,andSolocups afteraparty. 
Onelastfunfact:haveyoueverwor­riedthatthelimewedgeatthebottomof yourCoronabottlemeansyoucan’trecy­cleit?Don’t!Recyclingfacilitiesthese daysareincrediblysophisticated,and caneasilyhandleyourlingeringfruit garnishes. 
Drinkinghappens.Soplease,drink smartanddrinkgreen. 
TheGreenMan 
Have a question about the environment or how to go green in your personal life? Wondering about the ethics of dating someone who drives a Hummer, for example? Email me at askthegreenman@gmail.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame falling behind 

Forovertwoyears,studentsatNotreDamehavebeenraisingconcernsof injusticeandunethicaltreatmentofworkersatHEIHotelsandResorts,acompa­nyinwhichNotreDameisinvested. Theonlyresponsewe’vereceivedfrom administrationisthatHEIisa“good”company,andourownChiefInvestment Officer,Mr.ScottMalpass,wentsofarastosaythatstudentswere“fed”allkinds ofinformationthatisn’ttrueaboutHEI,claimingthatweweremisguided (“StudentsprotestUniversityinvestment,”Mar.25).WhileMr.Malpassisaprof­itableinvestor,thiswasaunfoundedattackonourintelligenceandabilityto extensivelyresearchissuesofinjusticeandlistentothevoicesofworkers. Unfortunately,eventhoughHEIworkershavevisitedcampusfivetimes,Notre Dameadministrationhasneveragreedtoheartheirstories. 
However,atBrownUniversity,anotherschoolinvestedinHEI,theAdvisory CommitteeonCorporateResponsibilityinInvestmentPractice(ACCRIP),anobjec­tivebodyoffaculty,students,staff,andalumni,didmeetwithworkers.ACCRIP recognizedthatworkers’concernspointedtothepossibilityofseriousinjustices inHEIhotels,andtheydecidedtoinvestigatetheissue.Basedontheirfindings, AACRIPrecommendedthattheUniversitynotreinvestinHEIciting,“apersistent patternofallegationsinvolvingthecompany’streatmentofworkersandinterfer­encewiththeireffortstounionize,combinedwithrepeatedsettlements”withthe NationalLaborRelationsBoard.Brown’sPresident,Ms.RuthSimmons,supported 
thisrecommendation.TheBrownCorporationdecidedonThursday,February10 toacceptACCRIP’srecommendation,andtheUniversitywillnolongerinvestin HEIHotelsandResorts.Inaddition,bothYaleandPennhaveexpressedsome concernoverthetreatmentofHEIworkers. 
Nowweshouldbeasking:wheredoesNotreDamestand?Willtheadministra­tioncontinuetosaythatmembersoftheNotreDamecommunityaswellas BrownUniversityarebeingfedlies?HowBrownfindenoughcondemningevi­dencetostopinvestingwhileNDmaintainsthatHEIisanethicalinvestment, rejectingallopposingviews? ThetruthisthatNotreDame,auniversitythat claimstoupholdCatholicSocialTeachingandespousesadeepcommitmentto justice,isfallingbehind.Wehaveforgottenthatinthefaceofeveryworkeristhe faceofJesusChrist.ItistimeforOurLady’sUniversitytotakeastandandbean exampleofacommunityrootedinfaithandjusticebyrefusingtoreinvestinHEI. 
Formoreinformation,youcanvisitheiworkersrising.org, heihotels.com,ore­mailefurman@nd.edu 
Liz Furman 
senior off campus Feb. 20 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


A note on ‘Ring of life’ 
ThanksforpublishingthearticleIsenttoyou(“Ringoflife,”Feb.21).Itwaspointed outtome,andrightlyso,thatsomeofthepoeticproseinmyarticlewasprovidedcour­tesyofMumfordandSons.Iwaslisteningtothemwhilepenningmythoughtsafterthe bout.Ihadalookatsomeoftheirlyricsafterastudent’se-mail.Ihavesubconsciously madeuseoftheirlyricstodescribemystreamofconsciousnessinthearticle,theexac­titudeand contextofwhichIcannot fullyascertain.Iapologizethatthisrealization wasn’timmediate,therewastoomuchadrenalineinmeatthetime.Iwishtosuffixa noteofcourtesytoMumfordandSons,andtheBengalBoutsforinspiration. 
Sukesh Shekar 
graduate student off campus Feb. 21 

The Observer 
Scene 

page 8 Tuesday, February 22, 2011 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

The decision to see a book-turned­movie is always a tough one. Will the movie do justice to the book? Will the director have tweaked the plot or the ending to best fit his message? Will the beloved main character be accu­ratelyportrayedbyatalentedactoror actress or mangled by asub-par one? Is it worth $10 to possibly see your favoritebookdestroyedonscreen? 
These questions gain deeper signifi­cance when you consider the new technologiesavailabletodirectorsand producers. It seems like everyone wants to produce a 3-D movie. And the CGI effects available are astound­ing. But do these new advances in moviemaking really add to the quality ofamovie? 
And in our increasing politicized society, the movie industry can often twist movie plots to convey certain messages to viewers. Modern technol­ogy only increases the ability to manipulate audiences with dazzling graphics. Sometimes, in bringing clas sic books to the big screen, directors miss, overemphasize or ignore key plotelementstosuittheiraimsforthe movie. 
Two movies coming out in the next two years might potentially fall victim to one of these modern moviemaking dilemmas: “The Great Gatsby: 3-D” and “Atlas Shrugged: Part 1.” Directors Baz Luhrmann and Paul Johansson have the opportunity to fascinateandcaptivateaudienceswith modernadaptationsofclassicnovels. 
But Luhrmann, director of “Gatsby,” has a reputation for excess. F. Scott Fitzgerald’sGreatAmericanNovelhas enough excess; it’s the nature of Jay Gatsby’s persona. Even without the 3­D aspect Luhrmann wants to incorpo­rateintothemovie,herunstheriskof over-emphasizing the gin, wild parties and flappers, passing over the subtler themes of class warfare and the decayingideaof theAmerican Dream. He risks repeating his 2001 hit, “Moulin Rouge,” just minus the broth­el. 
And then considering the idea to make the movie in 3-D, what is there to gain? Once again, Luhrmann runs the risk of focusing too much on the extra-dimensional aspect of his adap­tation.Hemaystunhisaudienceswith higher ticket prices and in-your-face visuals, but to what end? Fitzgerald’s genius often stemmed from his use of subtlety, and Luhrmann might do well tolearnfromhim. 
The issue of “Atlas Shrugged: Part 1” lies more in its politics than its visualeffects.DirectorPaulJohansson has, probably wisely, chosen to break the 1,200-page novel into two parts, the first one due for release April 15. In her epic novel, author Ayn Rand explores her philosophy of objec­tivism, best expressed by the credo of many characters from the book: “I swearbymylifeandmyloveofitthat I will never work for the sake of another man nor ask another man to workforthesakeofmine.” 
While Rand has stated that her novel was not a“fundamentally politi­cal book,” it takes a decided stance against any form of state intervention insociety.Inlightofthecurrentpoliti­
cal situation, it is easy to see how the moviecouldalmostbecomepropagan­da. However, Rand is correct in her statementthatherbookisnotentirely political.Yes,sheencouragesandpro­motes apure laissez-faire system. But she also incorporates important and intriguing themes concerning the importanceoftheindividualmindand the theory of sex. To turn this novel into apiece of propaganda would dis­tort it and ruin Rand’s carefully craft­edmasterpiece. 
Modern cinema has taken liberties with many classic books and legends, and not all have worked out in its favor. It’s asad day when Robin Hood fights more with a sword than a bow and arrow — as he did in Ridley Scott’s 2010 “Robin Hood.” Hopefully Luhrmann and Johansson will sur­prise their audiences and use modern contexts and technology to a positive end, avoiding all the easy traps it lays for directors, to produce cinematic masterpiecestruetotheirroots. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 


By CHRISTOPHER COLLUM 
Scene Writerr 

LastMonday,asthedustsettledfromthe 2011Grammys and anticipationbuilton theothersideoftheAtlanticforthenext day’sBRITAwards,Radioheadmadeabig announcement.Inapostonthequintet’s officialTwitterfeed,thebandstatedthatits eighth studio effort would be released Saturday—amerefivedayslater—and wouldbecalled“TheKingofLimbs.” 
As if one surprise was not enough for one week, in the early hours of Friday morningRadioheadannouncedthealbum wasavailablefordownload24hoursearly ontheband’swebsite. 
Thistypeofareleasecycleisnotnewfor Radiohead.Itslastrecord,“InRainbows,” wasannounced10daysbeforeitsrelease inOctober2007andwasmadeavailable fordownloadontheband’swebsiteona “paywhatyouwant”basis. 
“TheKingofLimbs”wasnotmadeavail­ableforfree(thebasicdownloadcosts$9) but,like“InRainbows,”itisself-released. Radiohead has been free of contractual obligations with any record label since 2004. 
Asitdidwithitspreviousalbum,inthe pastweekmuchofthebuzzsurrounding “The King of Limbs” has unfortunately focused more upon the band’s novel methodofreleasingtherecordthanonthe actualmusic. 
The first thing that is apparent about “TheKingofLimbs”isthatitisshort—the recordcontainseighttracksthatclockinat about37minutesintotal.Thisdoesnot, however,givethealbuma“rushed”feelin anysense. 
Themusicaltoneofthealbumisgener­allyverycalmandslow-moving,something thatcouldpossiblybecometiresomeovera longerperiodoftime,butincontextactual­lycounteractsthealbum’sbrevitynicely. 
Opener “Bloom” begins with an eerie pianoloopthatcontinuesonforabout15 seconds before guitarist Jonny Greenwood’s single-note vibrato and a bustlingpolyrhythmicdrumsamplebegins toplayacrossoneanother. Finally,after morethanaminuteofthis,singerThom Yorkebeginsinhisnowinstantlyrecogniz­abletenor:“Openyourmouthwide/The universewillsigh.” 
Therecordsoundsanythingbutformula­ic,butRadioheadisinfactfollowingafor­mulahere:itsown.Thisistheformulathe band invented in 1997 with “OK Computer,” tore apart three years later with“KidA,”andhasbeenrefiningever sinceindifferentforms. 
Fromtheverybeginning,“TheKingof Limbs”soundslikeaRadioheadalbum.All theelementsarehere:thethickcontextual layering,thecomplexelectronicstylings— wehavecometoexpectallofthesethings from theband.But the fascinatingthing about“TheKingofLimbs”isthatinspite ofthis,itreallydoesn’tsoundlikeanypre­viousRadioheadalbuminparticular.Callit anewtwistonanoldformula,ifyouwill. 
Important to note is the fact that this album is probably the farthest removed sonicallyfromthegrungeof1995’s“The Bends,”thearenarockof“OKComputer,” oreventhefuzz-drivenatmosphericsof“In Rainbows.”“TheKingofLimbs”easilyhas theleast“rock”momentsofanyprevious album.Eventhestarklyelectronic“KidA” had“HowtoDisappearCompletely,”which wasafarcryfromanarenarockanthem, butatleastitwasguitar-centered.Lookfor noneofthathere. 
Instead, the band has very obviously beeninfluencedbytheexperimentalelec­tronicaofartistssuchasFlying Lotusor FourTet,aswellasthebass-heavygenre of British dance music known as “dub-step.” BassistColin Greenwood’s workis essentialinmanyplacesbecauseofthis. 
Theonlysongthatcouldreallybesaidto feature something similar to traditional instrumentationis“Codex,”whichhappens tobethealbum’soutstandinghighlight. 
Comingofftheheelsofetherealfirstsin­gle“LotusFlower,”“Codex”bringsthelis­tenerbacktoearthwithitsdulcetpiano tones and one of the sweetest melodies Yorke has ever penned. He plumbs the same emotional well as “In Rainbows” closer “Videotape,” or maybe even the classic “Fake Plastic Trees.” “Sleight of hand/Jumpofftheend/Intoaclearlake/ Noonearound,”Yorkesings. 
Whilethebandhassignificantlyaltered its sound once again on “The King of Limbs,” Yorke’s songwriting has not changed.Hecontinuesthesametrendsof alienation and confusion that havebeen found on every Radiohead album of the past15years—withtheexceptionof“In Rainbows,” which was abrief respite exploringloveandhumanity. 
“The King of Limbs” is what every Radioheadalbumis—aseeminglyoff-the­wallabstractionthatprogressestheband’s ever-changingsoundevenfurther.Howit stacksupcomparedtothelegacyof“OK Computer,” “Kid A,” and, depending on whoyoutalkto,maybe“InRainbows,”is notyetapparent. 
What is apparent, however, is that Radiohead has done it once again: The band has created an incredibly complex albumthatsomehowmanagestoinstantly become engrainedin thelistener’sbrain afteronelisten.Completelydigestingthe albumtakesrepeatedlistens,naturally,but anypreviousfanofRadioheadshouldwel­come the bizarre world of “The King of Limbs”fromthebeginning. 
Contact Christopher Collum at 
ccollum@nd.edu 
“King of Limbs” Radiohead Label: Self-released Best tracks: “Codex” and “Lotus Flower” 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

The Observer 
Scene 

Tuesday, February 22, 2011 page 9 



Honor. Queen Elizabeth’s only daughter and is riage.Thesepeopleandtheirroyalpre-
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
The groom: knownforherequestriancareer. tensions — you’ve got to love it. 
Scene Writer 
HisRoyal Highness Prince William of IthasbeenconfirmedthatDuchessof Curtseyingisn’tforsissies. 

The royal wedding invitations were Wales, second in line for the throne York Sarah Ferguson, ex-wife of Prince SobrushuponyourMissMannersas sent out Friday —did you receive behind his father, Prince Charles. Charles’brother,PrinceAndrew,didnot amust for royal wedding preparation, yours? Don’t panic, The Observer has Currently, he is pursuing amilitary receiveaninvitation(ouch),whichwere andifyouhaven’t already,YouTubethe yourback,aswe’vegottheinsidescoop career, in service with the Royal Air distributed Friday. But both of her Prince William/Kate Middleton engage-on the who’s who and what’s what for Forceasahelicopterpilot. daughters, Princesses Eugenie and ment interview —so candid. They talk “The The royals: Beatrice,William’scousins,areexpected about everything from their brief Engagement,” 
Obviously, toattend. breakup to his mother. Plus you get to the biggest 
hisgrandmoth-The gossip: stare at her gorgeous (now iconic) blue royal event 
er, Queen Bets are on that Kate has chosen dress for nine minutes. It’s enough to since well, 
Elizabeth II, Bruce Oldfield, afavorite designer of make you wonder why we ever kicked Diana and 
and grandfa-both Princess Diana and Sienna Miller, theroyalfamilytothecurb. Charles 
ther, Prince among others, to design her wedding (although let’s 
Philip, Duke of gown. But in the end, it will be white, Contact Courtney Eckerle at have higher 
Edinburgh. have frills and lace, and then they will cecke01@saintmarys.edu hopes for this. 
His father, put it in amuseum somewhere, so let’s oneshallwe?). 
HRH Prince gettothereallyjuicystuff. 
Charles of The Daily Mail has been fretting over 

Wales, next in an issue vitally important to domestic First, the 
line for the diplomacy: the curtsey. So what I am where and 
throne,andhis going to refer to as Royal Curtsey Westminster 
when: 

father’s second Protocol (capitalized because it is so Abbey, April 
wife, Camilla veryimportant)isbasicallythis:Thereis 29,for11a.m. 
Parker Bowles. ahierarchy among the royals on who nuptials. The 
Although getscurtsiedtofirst.Itwaseditedwhen Dean of 
Camilla is gen-Camilla married Charles, because the Westminster 
erally accepted onlypersonshewouldhavehadtocurt­will conduct 
now, she mar-sey to first would be the Queen, as the service, 
ried Charles a Princess Diana had done. But neither the 
hated woman Princess Anne nor the Queen’s cousin, Archbishop of after allega-Princess Alexandra, would curtsey to Canterbury will preside over the vows tions that Charles continued an affair suchagenerallydespisedwoman,so to and the Bishop of London will give the with her during his marriage to the avoidroyalcatfighting,theQueenputa address. belovedPrincessDiana,William’smoth-little known edict (entitled “Precedence Now for the who: erwhodiedinacaraccidentinParisin of the Royal Family to be Observed at 
First ofall,thebride,KateMiddleton, 1997. Court”)intoeffect.Camillawasdemoted who is quickly becoming celebrated as PrinceHarry(fullnameHenryCharles to fifth, but now Kate is coming in and the perfect mix of sophistication and AlbertDavid)ofWales,youngerbrother shakingthewholethingup.Sotheques­approachability, as well as aEnglish toWilliam,currentlythirdinlineforthe tionis,willCamilla(andstodgyPrincess style icon. The couple met at St. throne. He will serve as William’s best Anne) have to curtsey to Kate, acom­Andrew’s University in Scotland and man, but all anyone cares about is moner? became engaged while on vacation in whether or not he will bring his on-The article advises that Kate may not Kenya. again/off-againgirlfriendChelsyDavyas carewheresheisonthetotempole,but The bride’s family: adate. Sources say they are on again, William will as future King, since he 
Michael and Carole Middleton, her mostlikelybecauseshewantsaticketto wantshiswifetoreceivetherespectshe father originally aflight dispatcher and theRoyaleventofthedecade,justathe-deserves. However, other royal women hermotheraflightattendant,thefamily ory. maytakeissuewithhavingtocurtseyto made their fortune with amail order Princess Anne, currently 10th in line her, thinking that royal blood trumps party supply company. Needless to say, to the throne as Queen Elizabeth’s only marriedblood.Itspiralsdownintoabig they’re commoners. She also has asis-daughter,isabitofastuffyroyal,having complicated royal mess, but one that ter, Pippa, who will act as her Maid of dedicatedherlifetoroyalservice.Sheis should be juicy to watch after the mar-



By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Matt Damon’s latest thriller, “The Adjustment Bureau,” is set to be released March 4. There is a special prescreeningforstudentsoncampusat the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo PerformingArtsCenterWednesdayat8 p.m. 
“The Adjustment Bureau” is a psy­chological thriller that examines whether or not we control our destiny. Damon plays David Norris, an ambi­tious politician set to make asplash in government. On the brink of winning a 
U.S. Senate seat, Norris meets the beautiful ballet dancer Elise Sellas, playedbyEmilyBlunt. 
AsNorrisstartsfallingforthedancer, agroup of mysterious men conspire to keep the two apart. These men are from the Adjustment Bureau, agents of fate controlling integral facets of life. The agents give Norris a glimpse into thefuturealreadyplannedforhim,but Elisedoesnotplayaroleinthat. 
Norris must decide between his dream of political prominence and the love of his life, accepting a predeter­mined destiny or writing his own. Meanwhile,theBureaudoeseverything initspowertopreventtheunionofthe twostar-crossedlovers.Inordertostay with Elise, Norris must dodge, duck, dive and dip across New York City to avoidaconfrontationwiththeBureau. 
This “Inception”-like mind bender is sure to be an exciting and intriguing film.DirectedbyGeorgeNolfi(writerof “Ocean’s Twelve” and “The Bourne Ultimatum”) and based on the short story by Philip K. Dick (“Total Recall,” “Minority Report” and “Blade Runner”), “The Adjustment Bureau” has the star power and plotline to be one of the year’s best films and amust seeforstudentsoncampus. 
For tickets stop by The Observer office or come early. Watch for promo­tional contests to win T-shirts, posters and more from Universal Pictures on Scene’sFacebookandTwitterpages. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 22, 2011 
MLB 

Chen returns to Kansas City camp in new ace role 
Associated Press 
Bruce Chen went nearly four years without winning a major league game before he led the Kansas City Royals with 12 vic­tories last year. 
He went from begging for a minor league contract in 2009 after missing the previous sea­son because of elbow surgery to arriving in spring training this year with a $2 million contract. 
“I wanted to be back, but I didn’t hear from the Royals for a long time and there were some Brewers. 
“They trade Greinke and we don’t talk for awhile,” Chen said. “It was like ‘Man, it’s January and I better do some­thing quick.’ I say to my agent, ‘Let’s go back to Kansas City and see what their best offer is. Let’s see if we can get a deal done.’ Both sides were willing to work on something. In less than a week the contract is done.” 
The 33-year-old Chen went 12-7 record and won his final 
four starts, 
including a 

other teams two-hitt er
“It’s more realistic to 
offering,” Chen against Tampa said Monday. go with a one-year Bay for his first “Then they said career shutout. 
deal. This is the 
we would like to He was hoping 
organization that gave 
have you back. for a multiyear We want to see if me the opportunity.” contract. we’re going to “I never trade one of the received a two-
Bruce Chen 
right -handers. year deal,” he 
Royals pitcher 
I’m thinking said. “It’s more Greinke.” realistic to go 
Chen’s 4.17 with a one-ERA last year was slightly year deal. This is the organiza­lower than Zack Greinke’s, and tion that gave me the opportu-Chen had two more wins. nity.” Greinke, the 2009 AL Cy Young When Chen beat Seattle on Award winner, was dealt in Aug. 6, 2009, it was his first big December to the Milwaukee league victory since Oct. 2, 2005. He went 1-13 with Baltimore, Texas and Kansas City in that span. 
Then, Chen came within one win last year of the career high he set in 2005. 
“It wasn’t just one thing,” Chen said. “I had to change a lot of things. You can’t expect like one little tweak and it’s going to help me win 12 games or try to form me into a differ­ent pitcher. First of all, it all started in the offseason. I trained. I was in the best shape. I also dropped down my arm angle. All those bad years I learned from that, too. I got much more experience. I see what works, what didn’t work. Then I learned how to pitch a lot more. I studied a lot of film too. My preparation before the game was very good. All those four things, I think, helped me have the year I had last year.” 
Pitching coach Bob McClure said being injury free was key. 
“It was his second year of not being hurt,” McClure said. “His command was better. He changed his arm angle a little bit. All of those things con­tributed. His brain worked right on how he could mix pitches. He’s become a complete pitch-er.” 

Manager Ned Yost is happy to have Chen back. 
“He started having a little more deception with three dif­ferent arm slots,” Yost said. “He threw more strikes. He kept the ball down. He changed speeds real well from three different angles. Bruce is a different look guy. Bruce will throw an 83 miles-per-hour fastball and then throw a 91-miles-per-hour fastball to get you to swing. It’s a look you don’t see a lot in the American League. That’s to Bruce’s advantage.” 
Chen wants to prove last year was not a fluke. 
“Now I have more confi­dence,” he said. “I see what works. I know what I can do.” 
MLB 

Woman pitches to Indians training lineup 
in,” said catcher Paul Phillips, Indians, fulfilled a lifelong 
Associated Press 
one of the players who took dream. Not only did she make 

Justine Siegal became the swings off Siegal’s pitches. history throwing to her first woman to pitch batting “She did great.” favorite team, she finally got practice in a major league Siegal has already broken to pitch to major league hit-spring training camp when she gender barriers in baseball, ters. 
threw  to  the  having coached  S iega l,  who  li v es  i n  
C l e v e l a n d  at  the profe s-Springfield, Mass., pitched  
Ind ians  on  sional and col- batting practice to a few minor  
Monday. Not only did she pass the  “I’m a bit of an old lady now. When I was  lege levels. She wor e a pa tch h o n o r i n g  leaguers before throwing to Phillips, Lou Marson and Juan Apodaca, who are in the major  
test with flying colors, s ome people became  19 or 20, I was throwing upper 70s.”  Christina Taylor Green, the n i n e -y e a r-o l d  league camp. She admitted to being nervous. “My heart was beating really  
a  little envious  granddaughter  fast,” Siegal said. “I’ve been  
along the way. “S h e made me look bad,”  Justine Siegal baseball coach  of former major league manager Dal las G reen,  thinking about this for the last month.” Siegal attended the general  
sai d manager  who  was  killed  managers meetings in the off- 
Mann y  Act a,  in last month’s  season asking for a chance to AP  
w h o  also  shootings  in  throw  in  spring  training. Justine Siegal throws batting practice to Indians lineup during  
throws  batting pra ctice  to  Tucson. Christina Taylor Green  Indians GM Chris Antonetti spring training on Feb. 21 in Goodyear, Ariz  
Cleveland’s hitters.  was the only girl on her local  was intrigued, and replied.  
Ac ta played cat ch wi th S iega l be f o r e she to o k the mound.  Little League baseball team. “I haven’t spoken to anyone in the family,” Siegal said. “I  She has been playing base­ball since she was five years old. Now 36, though, she was- a pickup league and I have to rely on the old curveball to get them out.”  only female college baseball coach in the country, when she wa s an assi s tant coach at  
“She was pretty impressive,” he said. “She throws strikes. It  asked the league organizers if it would be OK if I wore her  n’t sure how hard she throwing.  was  Siegal was the first woman to coach first base in men’s  Springfield College (Mass.) from 2007-10.  
was very good.” He wasn’t alone. “If you didn’t see the pony­tails, she would have fit right  patch, and they said please do.” Siegal, a Cleveland native who grew up rooting for the  “ I’ m a bit of an o ld lady now,” she said. “When I was 19 or 20, I w as throwi n g upper 70s (mph). I still play in  professional baseball for the Brockton (Mass.) Rox, an inde­pendent league team, in 2009. She spent three years as the  Siegal, who throws right-handed, is scheduled to pitch batting practice in the Oakland Athletics camp Wednesday.  


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT If you or someone you care about RENTAL: House for rent for gradua-has been sexually assaulted, we 

FOR SALE WANTED FOR RENT tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. PERSONAL can help. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't For more information, visit Notre OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxu-Perfect location-right next to the go it alone. Notre Dame has many Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu Stop Renting -Invest your money! ND/SMC couple in Dallas, Texas ry options at Dublin Village, Irish new Eddy Street Commons-walk to resources in place to assist you. ——————————————— seeks full-time nanny for 15 months Crossings, Oak Hill and North everything-safe family oriented 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, all appli-beginning June 2011. Shore Club. CES Property street. If you or someone you love needs MENTOR NEEDED: 17 year old ances, Management. confidential support or assistance, male diagnosed w/epilepsy. Has a please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. difficult time relating to peers and is jillrobinson@century21abbey.com. If interested, please email hdaw-Call 574-298-4206, Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for For more information, visit ND's looking for guidance from someone son1@hotmail.com. additional info and photos website at: http://pregnancysup-who has experienced this condition. 574-250-9980 www.cespm.info port@nd.edu Contact Donna (mom) @ Williams.306@nd.edu. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, February 22, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

Players, owners currently on speaking terms 
Commissioner Roger 
Associated Press 
Goodell and NFL Players 

WASHINGTON — Say this Association executive director for the NFL and its players’ DeMaurice Smith arrived union: They are on speaking within minutes of each other, terms at the moment. shortly before 10 a.m., and 
And they are talking at the two negotiating teams length. didn’t clear out of the build­
“Conversation,” New York ing entirely until after 6 p.m. Jets fullback Tony Richardson Goodell and Smith wouldn’t said, “is good.” discuss the talks at all. 
Federally mediated negotia-Because both sides are abid­tions toward a new NFL labor ing by Cohen’s request that deal lasted about eight hours they not comment publicly on Sunday, the third consecutive these negotiations, it’s not day the sides clear what, if met to try to any, progress find common is being made. ground before “We are working hard “You know 
the current and we’re following we’re not contract going to give 
the director’s 
expires. you any infor-
After months playbook, and we’ll mation,” NFL 
of infrequent — see what we come up outside lawyer and sometimes Bob Batterman 
with.” 
contentious — said as he left bargaining, the with three league and Jeff Pash league execu­union have met NFL general counsel tives. “I can’t for a total of say anything, more than 20 other than the hours since fact that we Friday in front of George are meeting.” Cohen, director of the Federal Batterman, who represent-Mediation and Conciliation ed the NHL when it lost its Service. entire 2004-05 season to a 
“We are working hard,” lockout, then referred to NFL general counsel and lead Cohen as a “first-class media-labor negotiator Jeff Pash tor.” said, “and we’re following the The NFL’s labor deal director’s playbook, and we’ll expires at the end of the day see what we come up with.” March 3. The union has said it believes team owners want to lock out the players as soon as the next day, which could threaten the 2011 sea­son. 
Lawyers Jeffrey Kessler and Richard Berthelsen; current players Richardson, Cleveland Browns linebacker Scott Fujita, and Charlie Batch of the Pittsburgh Steelers; and former players Pete Kendall and Sean Morey were among those representing the union Sunday. They began arriving before 9 a.m. 
The sides met for about six hours on both Friday and Saturday. Cohen announced Thursday the groups agreed to the mediation, which is not binding but is meant as a way to spur progress. The plan calls for several days of nego­tiations with Cohen present. 
The league and union went more than two months with­
out any formal bargaining until Feb. 5, the day before the Super Bowl. The sides met again once the next week, then called off a second meeting that had been sched­uled for the following day. 
The most recent CBA was signed in 2006, but owners exercised an opt-out clause in 2008. 
The biggest issue separat­ing the sides is how to divide about $9 billion in annual revenues. Among the other significant points in negotia­tions: the owners’ push to expand the regular season from 16 games to 18 while reducing the preseason by two games; a rookie wage scale; and benefits for retired players. 
No team owners have been seen at the mediated ses ­sions, but they’re surely keeping up with what’s hap­pening — and at least one indicated optimism about the 2011 season in a roundabout way. 

Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay tweeted Sunday: “T Minus 351 days 2 Sup Bowl kickoff in Indy...early predic­tions 4 participating teams???” 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2011 
Aoki 
continued from page 16 
one two-out hit at the right time from being able to sweep the weekend,” Irish coach Mike Aoki said. “I think the way that we pitched, in particular our starters, and the way that we swung the bats the last two games — I thought we did well.” 
In his first season with the Irish, Aoki faces the peren­nial challenge of preparing his team for the regular season in a harsh outdoor environment. Limited to the batting cages for most of the offseason, the Irish (2­
1) looked cold at the plate in stranding seven runners in scoring position in a 2-1 loss to Michigan State (3-0) on Friday. 
Senior Brian Dupra threw seven innings and gave up two runs but was outdueled by the Spartans’ Kurt Wunderlich, who yielded only one run in seven innings. 
“I think that’s a mix of things — that’s going to happen because hitting is a fickle type of deal,” Aoki said. “Sometimes you have it and sometimes you don’t. Itry to judge them on really giving an eye test to the types of at-bats we’re hav­ing in those types of situa­tions. You have to give Wunderlich alot of credit.” 
The Irish bounced back in a big way Saturday, crush­ing Purdue (2-1), 19-2, for Aoki’s first win as the Irish coach. Junior centerfielder Alex Robinson went five-for­five at the plate with three runs scored and an RBI, while senior pitcher Cole Johnson picked up the win after allowing two runs in six innings. 
The Irish backed up Saturday’s win with a con­vincing 8-5 victory over Penn State (3-1) Sunday. Freshman first baseman Trey Mancini went three­for-five with a home run and a triple, while senior Todd Miller tossed 6 1/3 innings and struck out six. 
“I think all three starters, all three of them were out­standing,” Aoki said. “All three of them had stretches where they got six or seven or eight batters in a row retired. In situations where they had some runners in scoring position against them, I thought they made some big pitches.” 
Although conference play does not begin until late March, Aoki said he is con­fident in his team’s ability to take the field and com­pete at the Big East level in February. Nevertheless, this weekend provided the coaching staff with a glimpse of Notre Dame’s potential. 
“I think it’s always a work-in-progress,” Aoki said. “I’m glad that we’re not opening up in confer­ence right away, because I think the big thing that you’re trying to do is figure out your personnel. I think this weekend went a long way into telling us who our core guys are.” 
Notre Dame will travel to Seattle, Wash., this week­end to face Seattle University in a three-game series. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Two players fnish in top 10 at tournament 
Observer Staff Report 
in the second round before 
fallinginaclose15-11bout. 
Four Notre Dame fencers Sophomore James Kaull, traveled to Dallas, Texas last whofinished12thinthemen’s weektocompeteintheUnited epee, and freshman Nicholas States Fencing Association Kubik, who placed 66th in JuniorOlympics.Enteringwith men’sfoil,alsoturnedinstrong high hopes, the Irish emerged performances. with two top-10 finishes The finish matched Rossi’s through Monday morning, as top placing at the Junior freshmen Mike Rossi and Olympics,aneventinwhichhe Abigail Nichols finished sev-has competed five times. The enth and ninth in men’s epee Junior Olympics is anational andwomen’ssabre,respective-competitionindependentofthe ly. NCAA that matches some of 
Nichols,thethirdseedhead-thetopamateurfencersinthe ingintothetournament,placed country against each other in first in her pool and won the twoagegroups,U17andU20. first five bouts of the second The Notre Dame fencing round before falling to Alisha teams nexttake tothestrip in Gomez, 15-8. Rossi finished two weeks for the conference second in his pool and then championships to be held at reeled off astring of victories theJoyceCenterMarch5. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles drop season opener over weekend 
Observer Staff Report 
Wins at No. 3 and No. 5 singles were not enough to lift the Belles in their season opener at Olivet Nazarene Friday, when Saint Mary’s fell to the Tigers, 7-2, in ParkForest,Ill. 
The Tigers (1-0) displayed the power at the top of their lineup, winning all three doubles matches and the top singles matches, as well, to knockouttheBelles(0-1). 
The Belles’ top doubles duo of senior Jillian Hurley and freshman Mary Catherine Faller fell to the Tigers’ Aziza Butoyi and Taylor Stephens, 8-1. The No. 2 pair of seniors Mary Therese Lee and Franca Peluso and the No. 3 pair of seniors Kate Grabarek and Jessica Kosinski both put up strongeffortsbutfell,8-6. 
On the singles side, Hurley was bested in No. 1 singles by Butoyi, atop-50 player in the NAIA. At No. 2singles, a late rally by Kosinski was not enough, as she lost 6-1, 7-6 (7-4) to Olivet Nazarene’s Erica Engelbrech. 
TheBelleswereabletotri­umph in a pair of singles matches, however, as Grabarek won 6-4, 6-3, at No. 5singles and Faller won atNo.3singles,6-2,3-2. 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Case Western on Saturday for a 4 p.m. nonconference match. 
Orange win in hostile environment 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Scoop Jardine and Rick Jackson —a coupleofPhillykids—combined for 38 points and No. 17 Syracuse, the worst free throw shooting team in the Big East, sealeda69-64 victory over No. 15VillanovaatthelineMonday night. 
Jardinehad20pointsandsix assistsfortheOrange(23-6,10­6),whileJacksonhad18points, fivereboundsandfourblocks. 
Thewinwasthesixththissea­son over a ranked team for Syracuse, tying it with No. 5 Texasforthemostinthenation. 
Theteamsswappedroadwins, withVillanovawinning83-72at SyracuseonJan.22. 
Corey Stokes returned from missingthreegamesbecauseofa turf toe injury to lead the Wildcats (21-7, 9-6) with 24 points, including matching his seasonhighwithfive3-pointers. 
Butitwasatthefreethrowline wheretheteamstradedplaces. 
Villanova, which entered the gameleadingtheBigEastinfree throw shooting at76.8 percent, was17of27attheline.Stokes, third in the nation at 93.5 per­cent,went5of8. 
Syracuse, last in the 16-team BigEastat65.5percent,went13 of 17 from the line, aperform­ance topped off by freshman Dion Waiters making two with 
14.1 seconds left for a67-64 lead,andJacksonmakingtwo— the second abank shot —with 
4.6 seconds to go for the final margin. 
Corey Fisher, coming off a career-high 34 points in Villanova’s overtime win at DePaul on Saturday, finished with eight points on 3-of-16 shooting, including missing all eight of his 3-point attempts. MaalikWaynshadfourpointson 1-of-9 shooting and missed all threeofhis3-pointattempts. 
Syracuse took a55-47 lead with 9:05 to play on two free throwsbyJackson. 

Villanovawentona9-2run— five points by Stokes —to get within57-56with5:28toplay. 
Jardinemadeafreethrowand a3tomakeitafive-pointgame. 


Tuesday, February 22, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 

Wade ready to play despite sore ankle 

Associated Press 
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade’s sore right ankle is not sore enough to present a problem for the Miami Heat. 
Wade was able to practice Monday and pronounced himself ready to go when the Heat open their post-All-Star schedule at home Tuesday night against Sacramento — one of several pieces of positive news Miami got when it reconvened to start the final 26-game stretch of the regu­lar season. 
“I don’t want to miss any time,” Wade said Monday night. “It’s not serious enough to miss any time.” 
Wade aggravated the ankle midway through the third quarter of Sunday’s All-Star game when he tried an acrobatic pass and landed awkwardly. He left moments later and did not return. 
Wade acknowledged that he was worried for a few moments Sunday night, but once the acute pain subsided, it was clear that the problem was minor. 
“I think he’s more tired than he is sore,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “I think this was a tough turnaround for these guys to get in at 7 a.m. today and bounce back at a 5 p.m. practice. That makes it tough probably for your body, getting on a normal East coast clock.” 
For Miami’s All-Star contingent 
— 
Wade, LeBron James and Chris Bosh, along with 3-point shootout champion James Jones 

— 
some rest is still surely in 


order. All-Star weekend — loaded with sponsor events, business meetings and then the game itself 
— proved hectic for everyone. 
Even with Wade sitting the game’s final 17:02, Miami’s three representatives logged much more playing time Sunday than Boston’s four All-Stars. Celtics coach Doc Rivers had Wade, James and Bosh play an average of about 24 minutes, while Boston’s foursome of Paul Pierce, Ray Allen, Rajon Rondo and Kevin Garnett logged an average of 14 minutes. 
Spoelstra wasn’t bothered. 
“The minutes in one particular game, that doesn’t affect any­thing, big picture,” Spoelstra said. “These guys are young.” 
James played 32 minutes, the most of anyone in the game for the second straight year. 
Both the Heat and Celtics play on Tuesday, though Miami’s All-Stars needed to make a cross-country flight home to get ready for Sacramento, while Boston’s only had to make the quick trip to northern California for a game with Golden State. 
“Man, I’m 26 years old,” James said. “I don’t go out to All-Star weekend to sit on no bench dur­ing the game. I want to play and I want to win. Me and Doc talked and I was fine with playing as many minutes as I did. I hate to come out of any game. I don’t care if it’s a recreation game in the summertime. I just love to play.” 
So Wade was feeling good, James was feeling good, and for­ward Mike Miller was feeling bet­ter. 


Balance 
continued from page 16 
They are very good defen­sively, with a good inside game. They won big this weekend.” 
The Mountaineers exploded for 90 points in a winning effort against rival Pittsburgh on Saturday. Their strength lies in a rare balance, with strong units on both the offensive and defen­sive sides of the court. West Virginia displayed its skills Feb. 8 when it held Connecticut to its lowest point total of the season in a 57-51 Huskies victory. 
Notre Dame’s final three games will go a long way in determining whether it is the Irish or DePaul who finishes behind Connecticut in the Big East standings. A large part of Notre Dame’s success will depend on its ability to shake off the 78-57 loss it suffered on Saturday in Connecticut. 
But McGraw is confident in her team’s ability to strike back tonight, considering the Irish have won nine of their last 10, and 17 of last their 19. 
“We have played really well overall,” she said. 
The Irish will need a stronger defensive showing against the Mountaineers to start a new winning streak. The 78 points they allowed the Huskies to score was the most in their nine previous games, when only two oppo­nents were able to score 60 or more points against Notre Dame. 

“We want to get back to playing well defensively,” McGraw said. 
Notre Dame’s biggest chal­lenge will be the duo of sen­ior guard Liz Repella and senior forward Madina Ali, who combine to power the West Virginia offense. They are the only Mountaineers to average double-digit points, with 13.7 and 13.6 per game, respectively. 
The Irish will look to jump-start their comeback at the West Virginia Coliseum tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
NHL 
Penguins acquire forward 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — With or without an injury-riddled line­up, the opportunity to acquire young power forward James Neal in a trade with the Dallas Stars was too good to pass up for Pittsburgh Penguins gener­al manager Ray Shero. 
Praising Neal’s potential, and the fact that he has a year left on his contract, Shero elected to make the trade on Monday in exchange for offensive defenseman Alex Goligoski. The Penguins also got a defenseman in return in the deal, landing fourth-year play­er Matt Niskanen. 
“The injuries had not had a lot to do with what I’ve been looking at. This is for now, plus down the line for both of these players. So that’s encouraging,” Shero said during a telephone conference call. “There’s not many of these power guys in the game. And Neal, on our list is one of the better ones Malkin, who will miss the rest of the year with a knee injury. 
Overall, the Penguins are without players who have com­bined to score 86 of their 174 their playoff position. After holding a double-digit point lead atop the Pacific Division three weeks ago, they’ve fallen to eighth in the West after 
goals this season. 
And add defenseman Paul Martin to the list, as he’s listed as day to day after he was shaken up after being checked into the boards during a 3-2 shootout loss at Chicago a day earlier. 
going 2-9-1 in their past 12 games. 
“Alex is a legitimate 
Goligoski is top-four defenseman regarded as an up-and-coming 
who will have a 
defenseman who 
positive impact on our 
has nine goals entire crop of and 31 points in 60 games in his 
blue-liners.” 
third NHL sea­son. He had Joe Nieuwendyk three goals and Stars general manager four assists dur-
Neal, 23, is in his third NHL season and ranked third on the Stars with 21 goals and fifth with 39 points in 59 games. Though playing on the Stars’ top line with Brad Richards and Loui Eriksson, Neal had been slumping of late as his goal in 
in the game and has got some room to grow.  “The injuries had not had a lot to do with what I’ve been looking  a 5-2 loss at Vancouver on Saturday ended a 10-game goal  
That’s why when you can get a guy like  at. This is for now, plus down the line for both of these players.”  drought. Niskanen has six assists in 45 games this sea- 
Neal,  the  son, a consider- 
opportunity might not be there again.”  Ray Shero Penguins general manager  able drop off from 2008-09, when he led all Stars blue- 
T  h  e  liners  with  35  
parameters  points (six goals,  

of the trade were agreed to 29 assists). He was the Stars’ Sunday night, and both sides first-round pick in the 2005 completed it hours before the draft, selected 28th overall. Penguins played host to the The trade comes as the Washington Capitals. Penguins have hit a rut, going 
Neal’s addition will help the 2-4-1 in their past seven Penguins in the short-term as games. Pittsburgh (26-19-5) well. Pittsburgh entered the sits fourth in the Eastern game down 10 regulars, Conference standings. including captain Sidney In Goligoski, the Stars Crosby, who is out indefinitely acquired a puck-moving with a concussion, and Evgeni defenseman in a bid to secure ing a career-
best -matching 
seven-game point streak earlier this season. 
“Alex is a legitimate top-four defenseman who will have a positive impact on our entire crop of blue-liners,” Stars gen­eral manager Joe Nieuwendyk said. 
The Stars are also plagued by injuries, down five players, including Richards (upper body), who has missed three games. Dallas has also lost seven straight road games. They’re off until hosting New Jersey on Tuesday. 
For the Penguins, Goligoski proved expendable given the Penguins depth at defense. It’s a group that’s led by Kris Letang and rounded out by the offseason free-agent acquisi­tions of Martin and Zbynek Michalek. 
Neal and Niskanen were scheduled to arrive in Pittsburgh later Monday, and be ready to practice on Tuesday. They’re expected play Wednesday, when Pittsburgh plays host to San Jose 
Shero noted that the injury to Malkin — and the cap space he frees up — actually provided him more flexibility in making the trade. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2011 
Dalrymple 
continued from page 16 
placefinishinthe400individ­ual medley and with a third-place in the 200 individual medley. 
Sophomore Ellie Watson shined with aschool-best time in the 500 freestyle, in which she finished second while jun­ior MeganPricebrokethe200 freestyle record twice, first in the preliminary race and then again, by one second, in the finals. 
TheBellesfinalrecord came in the 400-yard free relay when in which Dalrymple, Price, Watson and sophomore Katie Griffin finished in 3:39.44forfourthplace. 
Benishek said he was proud of his team’s accomplishments and was especially impressed with the squad’s changed mentality. 
“Ninety percent of these meets are mental, and our team displayed mental tough­ness to earn [personal and program] best times,” he said. “Our effort became contagious as our swimmers fed off of eachother’ssuccess.” 
Saint Mary’s stood strong in fourth place throughout the first two days of the event but dropped to fifth on the final day with only 314 points and no diver on its roster to boost the standings. Calvin College finishedfirstintheconference meet with 850 points for its seventh straight champi­onship. 
TheBelleswillonlylosesen­ior Jami Nellis to graduation, leaving Benishek optimistic abouttheprogram’sfuture. 
“I have great hopes for next year and believe the current swimmers will continue to improve in the offseason,” Benisheksaid. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
MLB 

A-Rod teased for popcorn 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Alex Rodriguez arrived at spring training and promptly dis­cussed the most significant activity of his offseason: get­ting fed popcorn by Cameron Diaz at the Super Bowl in the snack seen ‘round the world. 
The New York Yankees third baseman, known for dating actress Kate Hudson during the 2009 World Series, was pictured on TV with Diaz in a suite at the game in Arlington, Texas. 
“Did anyone watch the Super Bowl?” Rodriguez said to laughter Monday. “No popcorn endorsements yet, but our lines are open. Who would be upset about getting fed popcorn?” 
Laughter quickly changed to a more serious tone when the discussion shifted to Rodriguez’s onfield game the past two years, which declined following right hip surgery in March 2009. 
The 13-time All-Star and three-time AL MVP was cleared during the offseason by Dr. Marc Philippon to end his combination rehab-work­out program and resume his normal offseason routine. The result is a leaner A-Rod, down 5 or 6 pounds to around 222. 
“This is as healthy as I’ve felt over the last several years,” the 35-year-old Rodriguez said. “It’s fun get­ting back to work. I have a good winter behind me of real work, probably my first since ‘07 or ‘08. I’m ready to go.” 
The Yankees are coming off a six-game loss to Texas in the AL championship series, which followed a sea­son in which A-Rod won his first World Series ring. 
“I hear there’s a lot of doubters out there, which is fun,” Rodriguez said. “We were two wins shy of the World Series. With the exception of Swish (Nick Swisher) and Robbie (Robinson Cano), I think the other seven guys, if you ask them, all of us would say there’s a lot of room for improvement. And that start’s with me.” 
Yankees co-chairman Hank Steinbrenner expects a big season from Rodriguez. 
“The guy can still do it big time, no question,” Steinbrenner said. 
Two years ago, Rodriguez arrived at spring training and held an emotional news conference during which he admitted using performance-enhancing drops. His arrival wasmore low-key this year. 
“I believe I’m in a better place after all the things that have gone on,” Rodriguez said. “I felt asense of libera­tion. Just really enjoying my life, enjoying the game and enjoying my teammates.” 
Rodriguez will continue to have the hip examined twice a year. He didn’t completely rule out the possibility that he could face another opera­tion in the future. 
Both Rodriguez and Steinbrenner were impressed by Boston’s off­season moved, which includ­ed the additions of left field­er Carl Crawford and first baseman Adrian Gonzalez. 
“They always do a great job,” Rodriguez said. “They know what they’re doing. They got two great players. Last year they went through injuries. They’re going to be tough to beat this year. I know they’re excited to have agreatyear, and so are we.” 
Steinbrenner thinks Boston owner John Henry is serious about winning. 
“John is as committed as we are, and that’s the bot­tom line,” Steinbrenner said. “He’ll do what he needs to do.” 
Steinbrenner thinks the AL East may be the best division in all of American sports. 
“It’s always going to be the Yankees and Red Sox and whoever else right now,” he said. “Now it’s the Phillies who look very tough.” 
When asked what he was focused on, Rodriguez said “28,” which would be the Yankees’ total of World Series titles with another one. 
“I think all the guys are ready for the challenge,” Rodriguez said. “The feeling we were left with in Texas was not good.” 
Closer Mariano Rivera should have his first bullpen session Wednesday or Thursday. The right-hander has been taking a slower approach at spring training the past few years. ... Rodriguez doesn’t think ace CC Sabathia, who can opt of his contract after this sea­son, will leave the team. 
“I know that CC enjoys being a Yankee very much,” Rodriguez said. “We love having him.” 
LHP Boone Logan brought out an ice pack from the clubhouse for a girl in the stands he accidentally hit with a thrown ball on the lower right arm. 
Henley 
continued from page 16 
“Kelley is having asolid jun­ior season,” Belles coach Jenn Henleysaid.“Thefactthatshe was able to score her 1,000th point as a junior says a lot about the type of teammates shehasandtheireffortsinget­tinghertheball.” 
Saint Mary’s, which pounded Kalamazooby31pointsearlier this season, did not lead on Saturday until sophomore guard Annie Doyle made a layup with 8:37 left in the first half to give the Belles a21-19 edge. Kalamazoo had previ­ously led by as much as eight, following an early 7-0 run to startthegame. 
“Weknewtheyweregoingto come outwithalotof emotion andenergy,asitwastheirsen­iorday,”Henleysaid.“Theydid a great job of attacking the middlewiththeirdrivesandwe didn’t have an answer for it earlyon.” 
Despite shooting just 32 per­centfromthefield,SaintMary’s went into the half tied 39-39 after junior guard Patsy Mahoney nailed three free throws. Mahoneyfinishedwith 17 points, including 2-for-5 shooting from the 3-point line and 7-for-7 at the charity stripe. 
The Belles flipped the script in the second half, holding the Hornetsto26pointsinthesec­ondhalfafterallowingthemto shoot49percentinthefirst. 
“We started hitting more of our shots and picked up the intensity in defending the paint,”Henleysaid.“Wecontin­ued to push the ball in transi­tion and got the momentum goinginourfavor.” 
TheHornetshadfourplayers in double figures but were led by senior guard Courtney Kaplan. Kaplan had 20 points andwent6-for-11from3. 
With the win, the Belles clinched the No. 3seed in the MIAAtournamentandwillhost Trine on Tuesday, marking a top-four MIAA finish for the Belleseveryyearsince2006. 
Saint Mary’s beat the Thunder(7-17,5-11)twicethis season by a combined 32 points, as the Belles defense has allowed just 55 points per game. 
Murphy and junior guard MaggieRonanhaveaverageda combined 33 points per game inthetwovictories. 
But Henley isn’t letting her team get too confident before the start of the tournament tonight. 
“I think they will be better preparedforusthentheywere last time,” Henley said. “When you play ateam for the third time in one season, you know eachotherverywell.” 
The Belles will face Trine tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility to open the MIAAtournament. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  
58  59  60  
61  62  63  


Tuesday, February 22, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 
60 “Public diplomacy”broadcast org. until 1999 
61 *Some socials 62 *Milk source 63 *“Take ___!” 
Down 
1 Horrify: Var. 2 Simpleton in “Archie” comics 3 “___ Dream” (“Lohengrin”
aria) 4 Simpletons 5 Greek theaters 
of old 6 Fast-disappearing
airline amenities 7 Gaelic tongue 8 “The Matrix” 
hero 
9 Black Sea port 10 “___ le roi!” 11 Hydrocarbon
suffixes 12 Rouen refusals 15 Cad's behavior 18 Like plow horses 22 Sealy competitor 24 Manicurist's 
board 26 Give the slip to 27 Unlikely to hustle 28 Brooklynese 
pronoun 29 Mmes., across the Pyrenees 
30 Sport withlunges 31 Act that's 
“contagious” 32 Drink holder 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Gary J. Whitehead 
33 Dreaded  45 Homes for  51 A.S.A.P., in the  
mosquito  squirrels  E.R.  
36 Key  47 Jazz pianist 52 “Our Gang” 
37 Hides, as from  Chick  pooch  
the cops  48 Dentist's  53 Princess played  
41 Apportion directive  by Carrie Fisher  
sparingly  54 Ophthalmic 
43 Horace and  49 Ephesus' region  swelling  
Sappho  50 Tacitly 57 Back muscle, for  
44 Kiddie's racer  acknowledge  short  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay.Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 *Sermon closer 5 *Black cat, supposedly 9 *Place for a roast 13 ___ sci (coll.
major) 14 Shortstop Jeter 16 The Flintstones' 
pet 17 Time for playoffs 19 *Tied 20 All things
considered 21 Take stock of 23 Tissue injuries 24 *Times to call, in 
ads 25 Grid stats 26 May birthstones 30 *Storm centers 33 Fend off 34 ___ Lingus 35 Place for a nail 

36 “1-Across to 63­Across” 38 When doubled, a Gabor 
39 One protectedby a collie, maybe 

40 Like golf course greens 41 *Does some batiking 42 Signer-upper 44 Melted chocolate, e.g. 46 *Poor grades 47 Fuel container 51 Dairy Queenorders 54 Huge success 55 *Pro shop buys 56 Ob/gyn's image 58 Plugging away 59 Tab picker-upper 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JEFF KNUREK 
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE 
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 
SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 





Makecheckspayableto: TheObserver 
andmailto: P.O.Box779 NotreDame,IN 46556 
Enclosedis$130foroneacademicyear 
Enclosedis$75foronesemester 
Name________________________________________________ Address______________________________________________ City__________________State_________Zip______________ 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on peopleandeventsintheNotreDameandSaint Mary’sCommunity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have foundTheObserveranindispensiblelinktothe two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observerinyourhome. 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, February 22, 2011 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Bouncing back 
Irish continue their crucial four-game stretch 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
No. 8 Notre Dame’s second 
loss to Connecticut and the 
end of its nine-game win 
streak didn’t sit well with the 
Irish. But they have the 
chance to take another step 
toward a second-place finish 
inthe Big EastwhentheIrish 
take on No. 19 West Virginia 
in Morgantown Tuesday 
night. 
Tonight begins a crucial three-game stretch for the Irish (22-5, 11-2) asthey close the season. The Mountaineers (21-6, 7-6) will present a unique threat with their suffo­catingdefenseandhome-court advantage. 
“They are a really good team at home,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “When they lost to Connecticut, they held them under 60 points. 
KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer 

Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins dribbles in a Feb. 12 game against Rutgers at the Purcell see BALANCE/page 13 Pavilion. Notre Dame won the game, 71-49. The Irish will hit the road to face West Virginia tonight. 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Bellesbreak record for victories 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s closed arecord­breaking regular season Saturdaywitha77-65winover Kalamazoo, winning its 18th gameoftheyearforanewpro­gram record for single-season wins to surpass the 2008-09 team’smarkof17. 
The Belles (18-7, 11-5 MIAA) havealsobrokentheprogram’s single-season team free throws record. Saint Mary’s has made 530 free throws to surpass the previousrecordof484. 
Overtheweekend,juniorfor­ward Kelley Murphy became the ninth Belle to ever score 1,000 points in a career. She posted her 11th double-double of the year against the Hornets (5-19, 4-12), scoring a game­high21pointsandgrabbing11 rebounds. 
see HENLEY/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish tied for 11th after first two rounds of Invitational 
State, who currently stand in TheIrishopenedthedaywitha after finishing the day at 9-over two. 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
first.FreshmanNicoleZhang,the combined 303 (plus-15) first par. Park shot amorning round “Wefeelalotmorecomfortable 
Sports Writer 
top freshman in the nation, was round, placing them in afour-of77andanafternoon79,while and Ithink we will finish off 
the top finisher for the Irish, waytieforninthplacewithKent Huffer opened with a75 and strong tomorrow,” Zhang said. 

The No. 15 Irish hoped to tee carding a76 (plus-4) in round State, Baylor and Ohio State. closed with a78, to both finish “After the 10 hours on the offthespringseasonwithaquick oneanda74(plus-2)inthesec-They followed that performance thedayat153. course, we practiced our putting start but insteadfind themselves ond. with a308 (plus-20) later in the Senior Katie Conway currently and chipping, so hopefully those tied with No. 13 Arkansas for “It felt great getting back into afternoonfora611ontheday. stands tied for 53rd with a156 areas of our game will improve 11thinafieldof15afterthefirst tournament mode, but we defi-Zhang’s plus-6 effort ties her (plus-12), receiving afour-stroke fortomorrow’sround.” tworoundsoftheCentralDistrict nitely did not play our best,” for22ndwithsevenothergolfers penalty.FreshmanKristinaNhim The Irish will tee off the third Invitational at the River Zhang said. “We were all just inthefieldof75competitors.The roundsouttheIrishscoring,tied and final round of the Central Wilderness Course in Palm really rusty from not playing a individual leader, Texas for62ndwithaplus-14158. District Invitational at 8a.m. Harbor,Fla. round of golf in afew months, Christian’s Brooke Beeler, stands Zhang said she feels that the Tuesday. 
Notre Dame shot acollective anditwastoughgettingadjusted 12strokesaheadofZhang. Irish will head into the third 35-over par in the first two toplaying36holesoftournament SeniorSo-HyunParkandjunior roundfeelingmoreconfidentand Contact Vicky Jacobsen at rounds, 28 more than Louisiana golfagain.” Becca Huffer are tied for 40th preparedthantheydidinthefirst vjacobse@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

NotreDamewinstwoofthree 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Making their season debut at the annual Big East/Big Ten Challenge in St. Petersburg, Fla., the Irish dropped their opener to Michigan State Friday before rattling off consecu­tive wins against Purdue Saturday and Penn State Sunday. 
Although the offense struggled to find its rhythm in the first game of the year against the Spartans, Notre Dame came out swinging against Purdue to the tune of 19 runs and 25 hits, both tournament records. 
“We were probably just 
see AOKI/page 12 

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Team sets school records in five events 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Despite a fifth-place fin­ish at the MIAA champi­onships last weekend, Saint Mary’s left the three-day event with an upbeat squad due to its peak times and record-setting performances. 
The Belles shattered five school records over the three days and junior Audrey Dalrymple earned a NCAA B-cut time in the 200-yard breaststroke, giving her the chance of being invited to the NCAA championships in March. 
The results were a marked improvement from the previous season in which the Saint Mary’s squad finished last in the conference. 
“The team exceeded all expectations and sur­passed both my goals and their goals set at the start of the season,” first-year Belles coach Mark Benishek said. 
Dalrymple led the team with her B-cut time of 
2:22.31. While swimmers with B-cut times do not receive automatic bids to the NCAA championships, they can fill open spots created if not enough 
see DALRYMPLE/page 14 





