the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students face breakfast decision 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
A battle of the bagels com­menced on Jan. 22 when popular chain Einstein Bros. opened a location on South Bend Avenue, just a few doors down from local estab­lishment Studebagels. 
Merry Smith, owner of Studebagels, said business has held steady since Einstein Bros. opened. 
“It’s only been a month or so, but we really haven’t seen a difference yet,” she said. “We looked at last year’s numbers from the same time and we’re about identical.” 
Smith said this is not the first challenge Studebagels has experienced in 18 years 
of business. She said the company continues to focus on producing the best prod­uct. 
“There actually have been a couple of different bagel shops around, and a lot of places offer bagels, but noth­ing has opened this close,” Smith said. “We just roll with what we know. We try to do the best we can.” 
Smith said rather than view Einstein Bros. as detrimental to Studebagels’ business, she sees a chance to improve her restaurant. 
“I think it will make us even better. Competition is always good,” she said. “We may have to step up our game a little bit, and do some different things.” 

Business has started strong for Einstein Bros., owner Michael Newton said. 
“[Business has been] good, very good,” he said. “We have been fortunate so far. ... [Notre Dame students] are a big part of our business. We look for everyone in the com­munity, including Notre Dame students and local college students.” 
Einstein Bros has offered coupons on campus in addi­tion to giving away free breakfast sandwiches for a year to their first 100 cus-


Students network at rescheduled Career Fair 


By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Even though the snowstorm that hit campus Feb. 2 caused many headaches and forced the Winter Career Fair to be can-celled, the Career Center’s rescheduled Career Fair was a success, said Kevin Monahan, associate director of the Career Center, said. 
“Students have been very sup­portive as they realized the crip­pling effects the weather would have had on the Career Fair and the safety issues involved if we 
see FAIR/page 5 
tomers, Newton said. He said these promotions have helped draw students to the restau­rant. 
“The redemption rate has been quite impressive,” Newton said. “It definitely has been nice to see the kids come in and use those coupons. I think they have been quite happy so far.” 
College students will remain a big part of business 
once the coupons expire, Newton said. He said drawing in customers initially was important to introducing the Einstein Bros. experience. 
“I think this was a great way to introduce ourselves to the community and say, ‘Hey, we’re in town. Why don’t you come in and let us take care of you,’” Newton said. “Hopefully they like the prod­uct and they’ll come in again, with or without a coupon.” 

Smith said she estimates 30 percent of Studebagels cus­tomers are Notre Dame stu­dents. In addition to a 10 percent student discount, she said the warm atmosphere of Studebagels draws the col­lege crowd. 
“Some of the kids who come by at night to see the bagels made, I have become 
see BAGELS/page 5 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 

After the results were delayed for more than 24 hours due to campaign viola­tions, the officers for next year’s Senior Class Council were named late Thursday night. 
Anne Huntington will serve as senior class president. Her council will include Mike Oliver, Brittni Alexander and Tyler Harmsen. 
Huntington’s ticket won 472, or 57.42 percent, of the votes, while the opposing ticket won 350 (42.58 percent) of the votes. 
The Judicial Council reported 822 total votes, and 50 voters abstained from choosing a par­ticular ballot. 
Huntington and her ticket defeated Parker King, Ben German, Alicia Elliott and Brinya Bjork to win the elec­tion. 
Huntington said she was 

Bands,SUB present53rd jazz festival 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s 53rd annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will unite professional and student musi­cians this weekend. 
The two-day, student-run festi­val, sponsored by the Notre Dame Bands and the Student Union Board, routinely attracts world-class judges and ensembles, direc­tor of jazz studies and faculty advi­sor Larry Dwyer said. This year’s edition of the country’s oldest col­legiate jazz festival features nine collegiate bands and one ensem­ble comprised of the festival’s judges. 
“The festival is nationally known as one of the best festivals bands can come to, so we always get really great college bands to play here,” Dwyer said. “We’ve also been able to attract a who’s who of great jazz names to serve as judges over the past 50 years.” 
Dwyer said prominent jazz musicians, including this year’s judges, The Clayton Brothers Quartet, are attracted to the festi­val because it provides a unique opportunity to work with college-age amateur musicians at an 
see JAZZ/page 4 


Huntington wins SCC runoff 

excited for the ticket to assume their positions. 
“In our campaigning, we really came together as a team and saw who worked where best,” she said. “We have a really good idea of what we want to do and how we want to do it.” 
“We want to do some small events to get our class ready to move off campus,” she said. 
see ELECTION/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC students perform operas page 3  Spotlight on Philip Treacy page 8  Viewpoint page 6  Bengal Bouts Insider 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, March 4, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 


News Sports 
Sam Stryker Allan Joseph Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Anna Boarini Matt DeFranks 
Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Megan Kozak 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WH CH N NTENDO CHARACTER DO YOU MOST ASSOC ATE W TH? 







Becca Passarelli  Michael Verraveto  Jack Leniart  Christina Murray  Kelsey Behan  Cam Thorpe  
freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  junior  junior  
Pangborn  Dillon  Alumni  Pangborn  Ryan  Duncan  
“Mario”  “Donkey Kong”  “Mario”  “Yoshi”  “Yoshi”  “Starfox”  


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer The Men’s 2nd Varsity 8+ practice Tuesday afternoon as they prepare for the upcoming spring season. The team will spend spring break training in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
OFFBEAT 
Ohio man drinks beer during DUI stop 
ELYRIA, Ohio – Police in northern Ohio say a man who was asked during a traffic stop whether he’d been drinking took a swig from an open can of beer and told the officer, “Yes.”According to Cleveland's WJW-TV, the Elyria (eh-LEER'-ee-uh) police report says 25-year­old Stephen Supers was pulled over early Wednesday because the officer had observed him speeding. The report says that after Supers took the drink in front of the officer he failed a series of field sobriety tests. Supers is scheduled to appear in court Tuesday on charges including driving under the influence, driv­ing under suspension and possession of marijuana. A message was left at his home phone number in Elyria on Thursday. Court records do not list his attorney. 

Ferris wheel to be built on Las Vegas strip 
LAS VEGAS – A 500-foot (152 meters) Ferris wheel, which would be the tallest in the Western Hemisphere, may be built on the famed Las Vegas strip, officials said. 
A developer won permis­sion to construct the Ferris wheel as the centerpiece of an amusement park and retail centre planned for a vacant plot of land on the Strip, opposite the Mandalay Bay Hotel and Casino. 
If built, it would be the third-tallest Ferris wheel in the world and, at 500 feet, would be the maximum allowed by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. 
The site is less than half a mile (0.8 km) from McCarran International Airport, where more than 35 million passengers land every year. 
Developer Howard Bulloch got the green light for the project from Clark County commissioners on Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 






Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Friday at 3 p.m. in Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, relay for life is holding an event. For $3 a yard, you can tape Dayne Christ to a wall. Also, the RecSports interns will be recieving pies in the face for $1. All preceeds ben­efit relay for life. 
The Academy Award win­ning film, The Fighter star­ring Mark Wahlberg, Christian Bale and Amy Adams, will be shown Friday in DeBartolo Hall at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. The cost is $3. 
Saturday at 6:30 p.m. the film Strong Bodies Fight, will make its midwest premiere, in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film is a docu­mentary about Bengal Bouts, an 81 year old Notre Dame tradition. Director William Donaruma 1989, Producer Mark Weber, 2009, and Cinematographer John Klein, 2006, will all be at the pre­miere. The cost is $3. 
Saturday at 7 p.m., the Collegiate Jazz Festival will be held in Washington Hall. Students get in for free. The concert will feature bands from Alma College, Central Michigan University, Middle Tennessee State University, University of Missouri St. Louis and Bowling Green University. 
Saturday at 9:30 p.m. Lewis Hall is hosting LHOP: Lewis Hall of Pancakes. For $3, all the pancakes you can eat will be availible in the Lewis Hall kitchen. All proceeds will be given to the Food Bank of Northern Indiana. The event runs until Sunday at 1:30 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
monday tuesday 


Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer  NEWS page 3 


College students to perform two operas 


By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s College will look to hit the right note this weekend as six students per­form two short operas this weekend. 
The performances of “The Old Maid and the Thief” and “The Telephone,” both by Gian Carlo Menotti, will showcase the talents of stu­dents involved in a one-credit opera workshop, associate professor of music Laurel Thomas said. 
“In the semesters we do opera workshop, students can receive one credit for taking the class,” she said. “The term ‘opera workshop’ is used quite loosely, in the sense that we might do a one-act opera in its entirety, or we might do several scenes from different operas, which is how the term is usually used.” 
Thomas said the College presents a staged musical performance each year within the music department, with the exception of every fourth year, where the College teams the music and theatre depart­ments to create a full-length musical. 
“Every fourth year we do a large musical together,” she said. “We are currently in dis­cussion about doing a smaller musical every other year, and we tried this last fall when we collaborated to produce ‘Into the Woods’ by Stephen Sondheim.” 
Thomas said she is respon­sible for selecting music each year that caters to the stu­dents’ skill set. 
“I always choose the opera or opera scenes based on the students in the department who are musically capable and interested in working hard on a production,” she said. 
Thomas said the operas she selected this year are comi­cal, and will showcase each performer’s talent. 
“I hope that people will enjoy the music, find the singing of high quality, but mostly, that they will be able to laugh and have fun,” she said. 
“The Telephone” runs about 20 minutes long and is about a female character, Lucy, who is on the telephone with Ben, who is trying to propose to her. 
“It is an earlier case of a problem we still have today — technology getting in the way 
of true communication,” Thomas said. 
The plot of “The Old Maid and the Thief” reflects the history of 1930s — the era in which it was written. 
“‘The Old Maid and the Thief’ reflects Menotti’s view of this town and its inhabi­tants,” she said. “Though it is a comedy, the female roles in this opera are not necessarily all likeable. It was the first opera written for radio broadcast, another indication of its era.” 
The operas will be held on Friday and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall. Tickets are free for students and cost $10 for adults, $8 for senior citizens and $8 for faculty and staff of the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s College and Holy Cross College. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Election 
continued from page 1 
She said these events might include a presentation from a South Bend law enforcement officer about local rules that might affect students. 
The ticket said they plan to host events to bring their class together during their last year 
at Notre Dame. “It is unfortunate that reviewed the Huntington said appeal and 
there were so many
they would host decided to a networking complications, but change the sanc­barbeque at the Anne is going to do a tion. beginning of the “They must 
great job next year.” 
fall semester apologize to the and a senior other ticket in tailgate, as well Parker King the runoff elec­as smaller senior class presidential tion for the viola-events at local tion of section 
candidate 
restaurants. 
While the results of soph­omore and junior class council elections were released Wednesday evening, the results of the senior class council elec­tion were held until Thursday due to an alleged violated of campaign rules. 
An allegation was made against King and his running mates German, Elliott and Bjork. The ticket sent a cam­paign e-mail using a dorm list­serv, according to a Judicial Council press release. The stu­dent body constitution forbids the use of listservs in cam­paigning. 
The Election Committee decided Wednesday night to invalidate eight votes, or rough­ly ten percent of the rising sen­iors living in the hall in ques­tion, that were cast for King’s ticket. The ticket appealed the sanction, and the Election Committee met late Thursday evening to review the appeal. 
Vice president of elections Michael Thomas said the 
Election 
Committee 
17.1(e) of the 
Student Union 
constitution prior to the results being announced,” Thomas said. “The ticket must also attend a Knott Hall government meeting at which they must apologize for the misuse of the Knott Hall e­mail list.” 
King said he felt the winning ticket would be a successful in their term. 
“It is unfortunate that there were so many complications,” King said. “But Anne is going to do a great job next year.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 4, 2011 

Jazz 
continued from page 1 
entirely student-run festival. 
“When we ask former judges why they like coming to this festi­val, the most common answer is because it’s student-run,” Dwyer said. “They really appreciate that there’s not some professional guy telling them what to do, and they love to work with excellent college musicians to get a chance to impart some expertise and meth­ods to them.” 
Festival co-programmer senior Theresa Gildner said the world-class professional talents who judge the festival each year amaze her. 
“It always fascinates me to see how many famous jazz musicians have been judges in past years,” Gildner said. “It’s a really cool aspect of the festival.” 
Although the festival is noncom­petitive, the judges provide detailed critiques and scores for each band, including clinics imme­diately following their perform­ances, Dwyer said. Judges also perform at the festival each year, and Friday’s “Judges’ Jam” will feature the Grammy-nominated Clayton Brothers. 
Among the groups performing over the weekend are the University of Notre Dame Jazz Band I, the University of Illinois Concert Jazz Band and the Alma College Percussion Ensemble. The festival will also feature the University of Western Ontario Jazz Ensemble, marking the first per­formance by an international band in the festival’s 53-year his­tory, Dwyer said. 
For the first time, Notre Dame’s Jazz Band I will perform a song with the Voices of Faith gospel choir, Dwyer said. Sophomore jazz vocalist Allison Jeter will also per­form with the Notre Dame ensem­ble. 
Gildner said she is excited to hear her peers perform a wide variety of jazz music at the festi­val. 
“The Alma College Percussion Ensemble will open the show on Friday, and they have a really unique sound that you don’t usual­ly hear in jazz,” Gildner said. “They use steel drums and several other percussion instruments, and sometimes they use string bows on their marimbas, so it’s really cool.” 
Dwyer said he hopes the high caliber of this year’s performances will draw a large number of stu­dents to the festival, in spite of what may be an unfamiliar genre. 
“A lot of people don’t know a lot about jazz, so if they come to the festival, they might not know what they’re going to hear,” Dwyer said. “But it’s always an exciting show because every band comes to the festival with their killer stuff, and students get to hear their peers play at a high level.” 
Gildner said she hopes the festi­val will help introduce her class­mates to a genre of music they are not used to listening to. 
“We want to get more students involved with the festival because there’s a generation gap with jazz,” Gildner said. “It’s a great art form, so it’s cool to have the opportunity for students to experi­ence it on campus.” 
Performances begin at 7 p.m. Friday and Saturday in Washington Hall. Admission is free for all Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students, but advanced ticketing is recommend­ed and available in the LaFortune Student Center box office. For the general public, tickets are $5 per night or $8 for both nights. An individual ticket is required for each night of the festival. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Panel discusses sustainability in cities 
new community garden, more courses regarding sustainability and special events such as the dorm energy competition and Energy Week. 
Municipal Energy Director Jon Burke said South Bend has begun to encourage sustainabil­ity. The city just started an office of energy in September, he said. 
“We’re in the embryonic stage,” Burke said. 
Burke said South Bend’s solu­tion to become more sustainable starts with each citizen of the city. 
“Programs to increase sus­tainability aren’t going to be enough,” he said. “The solution is really going to come when individuals decide they are going to adopt a sustainable lifestyle.” 
Burke said students must always play an important role in improving sustainability. 
“I plead to you to get involved with sustainability because it’s going to affect you a lot more than it will affect me,” he said. “For centuries students have been the driving force for social change.” 
Architecture professor Lucien Steil said constructing economi­cally friendly structures is important. He said buildings are the greatest source of carbon emissions. 
“We have to become citizens of the planet again,” Steil said. 
Industrial design professor Ann-Marie Conrado said prod­ucts we use daily can be detri­mental to the environment. She said the University is recycling-friendly. 
“On this campus, the only thing that isn’t recyclable is food waste,” Conrado said. 
Conrado said current recy­cling bins do not cater to this, as the area for recyclable waste is significantly smaller than the area for trash. She said improv­ing the small things goes a long way in working towards sus­tainability. 
“Through design we can actu­ally educate and change behav­ior,” Conrado said. 
Contact Rebecca Moriarty at rmoriar2@nd.edu 

more sustainable, starting from the top. She said Vatican City is the first carbon-neutral country in the world, with the Vatican Museum adding solar panels to its roof. Notre Dame has adopt­ed the Church’s view about the importance of sustainability, she said. 
“The negative impacts of cli­mate change often falls most heavily on the poor and as Catholics, it is our duty to care for the poor,” Christophersen said. 
Christophersen said sustain­ability has an effect on the repu­tation of a university. The University hopes to decrease its carbon footprint and its waste output, in addition to teaching students about green living, she said. 
“[Notre Dame] hopes to edu­cate us to change our behaviors on campus in the hope that we will take those behaviors and practice them at home also,” Christophersen said. 
Christophersen said the University has encouraged sus­tainability on campus, with a 

By REBECCA MORIARTY 
News Writer 
South Bend and the University of Notre Dame must work with individuals to become more sus­tainable, members of the Sustainable Cities Panel deter­mined. 
Students for Environmental Action hosted the event Thursday. 
Officer for Students for Environmental Action Regina McCormack said citizens hold the key to improving sustain­ability. 
“We often talk about what cities can do to be more green, but today we want to extend the conversation to what individuals can do,” she said. 
Director of the Office of Sustainability Heather Christophersen said sustainabil­ity is an integral part of Notre Dame’s mission. 
“It is important to our Catholic faith,” she said. 
Christophersen said the Church has made changes to be 

Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
major highways. Postponing the others pushed back until after curious as to how many actually attended, which is typical for on-
fair was the right decision as the the fair,” he said. “Overall, spring had jobs and internships avail-campus career fairs. 

Fair 
continued from page 1 
pushed forward and tried to host the event in February,” he said. 
The Fair was postponed for more than a month until Thursday, when it ran from 4 
p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Heritage Hall. The Diversity Reception ran from 12 p.m. to 
2:30 p.m. in the Monogram Room. Monahan said it was the first time in his 10 years with the Career Center that a career fair had been postponed. 
“As early as Monday of that week, we had received news of thousands of flight cancellations and anticipated shutdowns of well being of students, staff, and employers was our top concern,” he said. “Within 24 hours, we had already rebooked the Joyce Center and started communicat­ing details to companies and stu­dents about the new date.” 
With the extra time the Career Center was able to keep the majority of the original firms set to attend, while bringing in a few more companies, including Land’s End, Chrysler and Frito-Lay, Monahan said. 104 firms were in attendance Friday, and firms also adjusted on-campus interview schedules during February and March. 
“Some firms kept their original on-campus interview dates while on-campus recruiting is up about 25 percent from last year.” 
Junior Rachel Chalich said she has been to every Career Fair while attending Notre Dame, except while she was abroad last semester. 
“I think that there were just as many students at the fair today as there have been in past years,” she said. “It seemed like there were fewer employers, but the event was logistically set up differently, so it is really hard to be certain.” 
Chalich said her biggest worry about the Career Fair being pushed back was the availability of positions. 
“Of those in attendance, I am 


Bagels 
continued from page 1 
sort of their mother. I think we offer them more than just food. We bake them with love,” Smith said. “It’s not like some place else. There is only one of us.” 
Smith said she appreciates the interaction the Studebagels staff has with students. 
“We like to have them come in because we learn from them everyday,” she said. 
Newton said one of Einstein Bros. strongest facets is the level of commitment he and his wife Melissa, co-owner and operator, bring to the business. 
“I think the [goal] of every restaurant is to execute well. Not everyone does that, but we have consistent, excellent serv­ice,” he said. “We do it with a personal touch. My wife and I are in the store pretty much from open to close.” 
Health -conscious food is also part of Einstein Bros. appeal to college students, Newton said. 
able or if those positions had already been filled,” she said. “I was fortunate enough to be unaf­fected by the change in date. My recruiters still kept on the same schedule; they just didn’t have the Career Fair as a resource.” 
Monahan said this is not the first time the Career Center has held an employer fair in March. As of 10 years ago, the Career Center hosted a career fair in January and a separate intern­ship fair in March. 
“Taking feedback from stu­dents and employers, we decided to move to one fair during the spring semester,” Monahan said. 
He said the Career Center esti­mates around 2,000 students 
“When you come into Einstein Bros., you’ll see we’re more health-oriented. We use fresh products and we bake everything on site,” he said. “We have a lot of good stuff.” 
Studebagels focuses on pro­viding fresh food, with home­made bagels, cream cheese, 
and original recipes, Smith said. She said Studebagels is able to offer a wider variety of specialty items than Einstein Bros. 
“We offer a lot 
of 
things they cannot do because they are a chain,” Smith said. “We make heart bagels on Valentines Day, different col ­

ored 
bagels for 


“I anticipate more first years and sophomores attending than in the past in order to get a head start on their career search efforts,” he said. 
Chalich said she began using the Career Fair as a freshman. 
“I think we’re spoiled by the work they do, and then you talk to friends who go to other schools where the ‘Career Center’ is one person behind a desk,” she said. “The staff at the Career Center know the industries, they know the employers, and they know the steps needed to get you where you want to be.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


chain restaurant in that way as much,” she said. “I go to Studebagels because it is fun to go and chat about the weekend and what everyone is up to.” 
Spiewak said as a local business, Studebagels is unparalleled in the attention to detail they bring to their 
“I think the [goal] of every restaurant is to execute well. Not everyone does that, but we have consistent, excellent service.” 
Michael Newton owner Einstein Bros. Bagels 
food, such as the variety of bagels and rotating coffee flavors. 
“I think it is all the extra lit­tle touches that local businesses can add to things, unlike corporate chain -type of atmosphere, ” she said. 
Despite what Studebagels offers, Spiewak said Einstein 
different Bros. poses a difficult chal­
sporting events and different lenge for the locally owned schools, some things that are business. just unique.” “I’m kind of worried about 
Senior Sarah Weiler, a regu-them actually. Einstein Bros. lar Studebagels customer, said has been pretty crowded,” she it is important to support local said. businesses. Spiewak said since Einstein 
“As long as we have local Bros. offers free wireless businesses, why not support Internet, many students see 
them, especially  the restaurant  
b e c au s e  t h e y  a s  a  p l a c e  t o  
w e re h e r e first,” she said. “ I t ’s n ot t h e  “I think it is all the extra little touches  en j o y a me a l while working on schoolwork.  
most important  that local businesses  “ I  h a ve  
thing students can do, but it is probably for the better.”  can add to things, unlike corporate chain-type of  n o t i c e d f r o m g oin g t o Einstein Bros. t h a t pe o ple  
Senior Jessica S p i e w a k , wh o  atmosphere.”  h a v e d o i n g  b e e n t h e i r  
received a tick-e t bo okle t f o r  Jessica Spiewak  h o m e w o r k t h er e , ” s he  
52 free break- senior  s a i d .  “ T h e y  



fast sandwiches as one of Einstein Bros. first 100 cus­tomers, said she remains a loyal Studebagels customer. 
“It’s definitely a temporary thing,” she said. “I never spend any money when I go to Einstein Bros., and as soon as I run out of these coupons I will start going back to Studebagels again.” 
The friendly atmosphere of Studebagels is what draws college students, Weiler said. 
“It’s more like a coffee shop where you can sit with friends. I wouldn’t think of a have been 
hanging out, eating snacks with their com­puters out. I don’t feel like they do that at Studebagels.” 
Weiler said she is confident Studebagels’ long-standing reputation will allow its busi­ness to remain strong. 
“The novelty of Einstein Bros. might attract students,” she said. “Studebagels has been so popular with students for so long that they will keep going.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Friday, March 4, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Thank you 

When we use this space to talk about our work at The Observer, there’s a tendency to focus on the nuances, if not the nuisances, that make the publication of a daily college newspaper a unique challenge. 
As I reflect today, the last day of my term as Editor-in-Chief, a part of me is relieved it will never again be my responsibility to deal with a mal­functioning print­er, a crashing server, a dying computer or a leaking ceiling in our office here in the basement of South Dining Hall. 
Another part of me, though, remem­bers those speed bumps not as chal­lenges, but as opportunities for some team-building comedic relief. 
Like the time(s) we’ve had to restrain each other from going Office Space on printers that could probably qualify for Social Security. Or the time we carried our server from computer to computer like a flash drive just so we could finish the first issue of the year. (The printers were, of course, broken that day, too.) 
Or the time, after spending an hour trying to turn on a computer that may as well run MS-DOS, I called our sys­tems administrator to “fix it” — which he did by pushing the “on” switch that was apparently impervious to my touch. 
Or the time(s, again) we’ve sent a staff member running up the stairs to fetch building maintenance while the rest of us tried to stop a leak by catch­ing the water in Solo cups. 
You’d think these instances of absurdity would derail the production of our paper. I’ve come to realize, however, that it is precisely instances like these that highlight the ridicu­lousness of our collective situation, bring us closer together and allow us to put out a paper every day. 
Overcoming these seemingly trivial obstacles — and doing so in a musty, outdated office in the basement of South Dining Hall — is what enables us to make the tough decisions and handle the real challenges of journal­ism that we, like all newspapers, face. 
It’s what allows us to step up and spend a 16-hour day in the office when the coverage of an important campus issue demands it, and then come back the next day to put out a paper in a “business as usual” mind­set. 
It’s what allows us to pick each other up, whether it’s a busy week academically or a rough day personal­ly, knowing that favor will be returned when you need it most. 
It’s what allows us to step away and play ICPA, “redecorate” the walls of my house, laugh about cinnamon toast and enjoy a night at Bruno’s. 
I’ll look back on my four years at The Observer and know they weren’t perfect. I’ll remember those little obstacles and those big challenges. But, most of all, I’ll remember over­coming them with all of you. 
Thank you for helping me survive my year as Editor-in-Chief. And thank you for making it one heck of a ride. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Let’s use our heads to protect them 
In the span of 10 days in February, two Notre Dame alumni took their own lives. 
Both men represented their alma mater, though in dif­ferent ways: One was a superstar, an All-American foot­ball player and eventual Super Bowl winner. The other was an average student, an interhall football player and eventual Notre Dame dad. 
Now, the brains of both Dave Duerson and Peter Grant are in a lab at Boston University, as part of a study of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). 
The Boston University website connected to the study describes CTE as “a progressive degenerative disease of the brain found in athletes (and others) with a history of repetitive brain trauma.” It lists boxers and football players as the most likely to have CTE, with symptoms — memory loss, aggression and depression, among others — appearing “months, years, even decades” after the athletic involvement that led to brain trauma. 
In short, when student boxers take the ring for the final round of Bengal Bouts tonight, or when the Irish football team begins spring practice two weeks from today, someone could take a hit that haunts him for the rest of his life. 
Much of the study and discussion of head injuries has focused on the National Football League, but we’ve seen it isn’t just professional or even varsity athletes who can be affected by this problem. 
Just this week, Notre Dame professor Mayland Chang announced that the NFL would be funding her research into a compound that could, hopefully, help to prevent brain damage when administered directly after a head injury. 
This is a commendable first step in expanding the con­versation onto campus. Now, Notre Dame needs to become even more of a leader in research, safety and education about head injuries. 
Bengal Bouts, Baraka Bouts and full-pad interhall foot­ball are all signatures of Notre Dame student life. So is the Notre Dame football team, of course. 
And because boxing and football are so integral a part 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Not in a different league 
Andrew (“Let’s be fair,” Mar. 3), 

Firstly, I have many wonderful relationships with people at Notre Dame, none of which are strained by the idea that Saint Mary’s students don’t study. Everyone I know considers that a thoroughly antiquated idea. 
Secondly, you state that Notre Dame is in a different league from Saint Mary’s, but also reference the National Liberal Arts College ranking list. Hopefully, a student who goes to the No. 19 ranked university in the country would understand that these colleges and universities are in a list because they are comparable. Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s are both four-year, Catholic, liberal arts programs. The curricula of both of our schools have a strong focus in developing general knowl­edge and intelligence. I am sure that you can see the how your Fighting Illini/Chicago Bulls analogy is inappropriate in this situation because they are really from two different leagues, while our schools are not. 
Thirdly, maybe you did perform “simply extraordinary feats” in academics or athletics to get into Notre Dame (or maybe you were a legacy), but so did other students all around the country. It is clear that humility was not a factor in your acceptance. 
Cheers, 

Catie Salyer 
senior 
Holy Cross Hall 
Mar. 3 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Keep your fears to yourself, but share your courage with others.” 
Robert Louis Stevenson Scottish author 


of this campus’ fabric, there is no better place to begin a wider movement of learning and protection. 
The studies are not yet concluded and all the facts are not yet known about CTE or the risks involved in these sports. But that doesn’t mean our students, from the high­est levels of athletic activity to the lowest, shouldn’t be made aware of the possible future consequences. And it doesn’t mean Notre Dame shouldn’t be working hard to find out more. 
Interhall players are currently made to watch a video about how to tackle without causing injury; but they are not informed of the possible decades-later consequences a concussion, or even many lesser hits, could cause. 
The same is true of students who compete in 
the Bengal and Baraka Bouts. Boxers hear 
about how to avoid serious head injuries, but 
do not learn about long-term effects. 
Informing students of the risk — not simply 
that of a concussion and its aftereffects, but 
also the risk that comes from every collision — 
is a first step RecSports should take immedi­ately. Would it change a lot of minds about participating in these favored activities? Probably not, nor should it. But students need to have all the information available, so they can make a conscious decision and can take any nec­essary precautions. 
The University should also be actively working to find the safest possible ways of practicing and playing the game of football to prevent head trauma, and implement­ing new findings as quickly as it can. 
There are few schools that can boast premier research abilities and an all-consuming love of athletics on a varsi­ty and non-varsity level. 
There is only one school that can combine those two things with a Catholic character of love and concern for every student and graduate to form the core of its identi­ty. 
It is time Notre Dame leads the way in research and education about head trauma, and makes a concerted effort to protect its athletes and its alumni, its superstars and its average students, from the type of tragedies that struck our community in February. 



Return the respect 
I want to believe that you wrote in with good intentions, but I found your letter to the editor (“Let’s be fair,” Mar. 3), far more condescending than helpful. In your letter you explain that Saint Mary’s students do your “premier university” a dis­service when we equate the two schools, as “Notre Dame stu­dents have performed simply extraordinary feats in academ­ics, community service, athletics and other areas.” Claiming this as a point of distinction between our two schools is as inaccurate as it is intellectually dishonest. The women of Saint Mary’s College have also accomplished “extraordinary feats,” and we continue to carry over this tradition of excel­lence into our college years and beyond. 
You are correct when you say that our institutions belong to different leagues; but please note that this is not due to inferi­ority, but rather fundamental differences in educational styles, values and culture. I value the distinguished all­women’s education I am receiving, as I am sure you value the education you are receiving. Using ridiculous basketball analogies to place your school at the professional level and mine at the intercollegiate level is damaging, unfair and per­petuates the same vicious cycle that you ostensibly wrote in to complain about. Your letter, a call to fairness, promotes the exact attitudes and stereotypes that contribute to lower evalu­ations of Saint Mary’s College. 
I love my school, and I respect my brothers and sisters across the street. All I ask is for this same respect in return. 
Jamie Schmidt 
junior 
Le Mans Hall 
Mar. 3 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is our choices ... that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.” 
J.K. Rowling British author 


The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Friday, March 4, 2011 page 7 
The freedom to be an ideological hypocrite 
The U.S. Supreme Court this week handed down an almost unanimous land­mark ruling in Snyder v. Phelps. The 8-1 decision upheld, as First Amendment pro­tected public discourse, a small church’s hate-filled shouts and picketing at the funeral of a Marine killed in Iraq in 2006. The Westboro Baptist Church’s leader, Fred Phelps, led many protests in which he and follow­ers sullied funerals of fallen warriors Gary Caruso with signs like “You’re going to Capitol hell” — a perverse Comments hypocritical religious profession that death in war is God’s way of punishing the U.S. tolerance of homo­sexuality. It is difficult to find even the most ardent advocates of free speech who are delighted that the court approved such a classless ploy as protesting at pri­vate military funerals. The venomous tac­tics Phelps, a so-called church pastor, employs reeks with hypocrisy in the face of the overriding Christian tenet of love. 

Phelps never limited his outbursts to slain military hero’s funerals. In 2007, his followers disrupted Christian minister and Moral Majority founder Jerry Falwell’s funeral. According to Phelps, Falwell was too soft on homosexuality when he accused the children’s television show character Tinky Winky of being a closeted gay but stopped short of action. 
Paradoxically, Falwell himself lost a First Amendment challenge nearly 20 years earlier when the Supreme Court ruled against him in favor of Hustler magazine, which had run a parody of the fundamen­talist religious leader. 
More recently, Westboro Church mem­bers spewed hate speech at synagogues in their anti-Semitic campaign that claimed all Jews are sinners. Phelps can-celled a plan to picket the funerals of those gunned down along with Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. He seemed to abandon that effort when absolute public furor emanated from all quarters of soci­ety. 
Most purists will hold their noses to support the absolute freedom of expres­sion for distasteful language. Our high court established a long tradition of his­torical precedents and principles unique throughout the world — freedom to express such diverse beliefs as anti-American sentiments through flag burn­ing (Johnson v. Texas), vituperative anti-Catholic speech (Cantwell v. Connecticut) and neo-Nazi expression embodied in a parade march through a community of Holocaust survivors (National Socialist Party of America v. Village of Skokie). Regardless of how morally reprehensible or antagonistic the expression, freedom to articulate beliefs has ruled supreme. 
In defense of Phelps, the American Civil Liberties Union noted in its friend of the court brief, “Outrageousness, in the area of political and social discourse, has an inherent subjectiveness.” The ACLU noted the court in the Falwell/Hustler case was correct in reaffirming that “a bedrock principle underlies the First Amendment … that the government may not prohibit the expression of an idea simply because society finds the idea itself offensive or disagreeable.” But therein lays a second hypocrisy, that of the court’s lone dissent­ing “decider,” Justice Samuel Alito Jr. 

Fast accumulating the most ardent con­servative record on the court during his five-year tenure, Alito’s rulings thus far usually fall against established precedent or dominant positions of lower courts when favoring business interests or opposing governmental interests. Alito unabashedly wears his conservatism as a badge of honor both on and outside the court. As a speaker or guest at fundrais­ers for conservative organizations like the Manhattan Institute, Alito depicts such attendance as “not important.” 
In his lone dissent this week Alito wrote, “Our profound national commit­ment to free and open debate is not a license for the vicious verbal assault that occurred in this case. But respondents, members of the Westboro Baptist Church … brutally attacked Matthew Snyder, and this attack, which was almost certain to inflict injury, was central to respondents’ well-practiced strategy for attracting pub­lic attention.” 
Last year, in United States v. Stevens, Alito also stood alone in opposition to his eight colleagues again professing a greater willingness to curtail speech. By an 8-1 vote, the court struck down a fed­eral law banning videos that depict cruel­ty to animals as too broad a restriction of speech. Alito supported the ban, likening the limits to the unprotected freedoms of pornography. 
In his first term alone, Alito cast the deciding votes weakening the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law and expanding corporate free speech in Garcetti v. Ceballos, but limiting free-speech whistle-blower protections for public employees who exposed govern­ment fraud. This flip-flop hypocrisy is typ­ical of a so-called strict constructionist who speaks from both sides of his mouth 
— in one breath, “The constitution is not a living document, so follow what is writ­ten.” Next the caveat, “Except when those illegal aliens sneak in to give birth to a child. Don’t follow what is written; just deny that child citizenship.” 
It should be no surprise then that Alito broke with protocol at a State of the Union Message to visually mouth his dis­agreement with President Obama’s warn­ing of consequences arising from the court’s corporate free speech expansion in the McCain-Feingold ruling. After all, in Alito’s eyes, free speech can only be what he deems is free. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Implications of the “non-athlete” shirt 
I agree with both of your viewpoints (“Non-athlete shirts a reminder,” Mar. 1) and (“Prejudice runs deeper,” Mar. 2). The isolation and pain that stirs inside of you when people assume you are at Notre Dame only because you are an athlete is something that you do not share alone. It is a terrible feeling and it disrespects both your intelligence and hard work. Alex, you make a great point noting that most of our society is not accustomed to seeing African-Americans as intelligent. Looking at the media and in the news, most positive images of African-Americans are either of those in sports or enter­tainment. 
However, I disagree with both of you on what the “Non-Athlete” shirt means. As a member of the Notre Dame Athletic Department, I was greatly disappointed with the shirt and its meaning. While its intention is to show that African-American students do not have to be athletes to be here on campus, it cannibalizes the African-American ath­lete and all of their daily struggles in order to exceed both in the classroom and in their sport or athletic event. 
As an African-American athlete here on campus, not only do you have to navigate the social generalizations and stereotypes that people assume about you, but you also have to try to balance both an academic and social life and if there is any extra time, a social life as well. 
Now I am not saying this is the life of all African-American athletes on campus or that we have it any harder than regular African-American students, but creating a shirt whose meaning is, “I am black at Notre Dame and not an athlete” does nothing to solve the problem. Instead of segmenting a portion of the community, integrate them by ask­ing for more input. It is only when different spectrums and voices join together that change can truly occur. My mother always taught me that the color of your skin does not matter, but your character does. If Notre Dame wants to move towards a more inte­grated campus, then we need to have respect for all, even amongst our own cultures. 
C. David Jones 
sophomore Sorin College Mar. 2 


Let’s be real 

When I announced that I would be attending Saint Mary’s, I was surprisingly often met with the response, “Isn’t that the imposter Notre Dame?” Simply put, Saint Mary’s is not Notre Dame nor should it be. The schools are indeed similar in their use of brick and their goal to achieve education of the mind without sacrifice of the heart. However, they offer vastly different academic opportuni­ties with one school’s style and efforts not inherently being better than the other’s. 
In his attempt to be fair, Mr. Moser (“Let’s be fair,” Mar. 3), claimed that Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame are in different leagues. However, in his statement he implied that the league in which Notre Dame is classified is superior to Saint Mary’s league. Now I agree that Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s should not be compared because one is a university and one is a college. Therefore, they are not even the same type of institution. 
Notre Dame offers more research-based learning while Saint Mary’s is grounded in the liberal arts tradition. Saint Mary’s College is not just a school made up of 2,000 Notre Dame rejects. There are many women here who never even considered Notre Dame because they were drawn to the small liberal arts education and traditions which Saint Mary’s offers. Moreover, believe it or not, there are women who turned down Notre Dame to attend Saint Mary’s. I com­mend the efforts of Notre Dame students to succeed academically, socially and in their communities, but for Mr. Moser to assume that Notre Dame students have worked harder and have achieved greater success in their various endeavors than their Saint Mary’s peers is nothing short of arrogant. 
So yes, there is a stereotype of Saint Mary’s women being ignorant and promiscuous creatures who rely on Domer males for a future. Now I respect that Mr. Moser as a Keenan Knight attempted to chivalrously defend our honor, but perhaps if he would dismount from his white horse, he and his fellow Domers would realize how capable we Saint Mary’s women are and start to feverently fight against that figurative dragon — our stereotype. 
Susan Head 
freshman McCandless Hall Mar. 3 


Why can’t we be friends? 
Let me assure you (“Let’s be fair,” Mar. 3), that if you were attempting to write an article that does not slight "the intelligence or effort" of Saint Mary’s women you have failed miserably. Here at Saint Mary’s we hold the same values and work just as hard if not harder than our neighbor across the street. Saint Mary’s women equate the two schools because the schools are extremely similar. To say that I belong in a different league than you is demeaning and incredibly wrong. Just because you go to Notre Dame does not mean that you are any better than me. You don’t know me and it’s obvious you don’t anything about the women here at Saint Mary’s. When you arrogantly refer to Saint Mary’s as the Fighting Illini and Notre Dame as the Chicago Bulls you are overlooking just how similar our learning institu­tions actually are. What you fail to realize is that we are in the exact same league; in fact we should be on the exact same team. I love both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s and I am proud of our historical connection. Only once everyone starts to accept the fact that both learning institutions are incredible prestigious can we all move for­ward. 
Jessica Vravis 
junior 
off-campus 
Mar. 3 
The Observer 




Scene
page 8 Friday, March 4, 2011 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
Associate Scene Editor 
An Irishman whose childhood dreams swarmed with fantasies of fairytale weddings might just get to be part of one this April. Reports say that London-based hat-designer Philip Treacy will be enlisted by the Royal Family to vamp up the garb of Kate Middleton and her bridal party on the big day. 
“As a small child, I loved to watch the weddings [in Ahascragh, Ireland]. They were the equivalent of fashion shows to me. The dresses that people wore, I couldn’t believe them, they were incredible. It seemed so glam­orous to see these creatures appear in these extraordinary clothes, as we didn’t have much glamour where I come from,” Treacy wrote on his online biography. 
Treacy, a connoisseur of the hat-making industry, began sewing at the age of five, piecing together outfits and hats for his sister’s dolls. Since then, he has moved onto life-size clientele and today his creations adorn the heads of Sarah Jessica Parker, Lady Gaga and even the Duchess of Cornwall, Camilla Parker Bowles. 
His expertise is so renowned that Lady Gaga applied to be his intern last spring after the two spent time putting together futuristic headgear for her stage ensembles. Gaga continues to wear Treacy’s label and has been seen in his creations at the VMAs and in various music videos and interviews. 
Parker wore Treacy headdresses to the London premieres of both “Sex and the City” and “Sex and the City 2,” proving her loyalty and solidifying her status as a fan. The star paired a pale green Alexander McQueen gown with a butterfly-infused Treacy confection at the premiere of the first movie. 
Two years later, Parker followed up this appearance on the red carpet with an electrifying black McQueen­and-Treacy combo again, stunning viewers while simultaneously paying homage to the recently deceased McQueen. 

Both celebrities and fashion design­ers alike recognize Treacy’s talent. In 1991, Treacy won his first British Fashion Council award as British Accessory Designer of the Year and was asked by Karl Lagerfeld, chief designer at Chanel, to design for the company. In 1999 Treacy designed hats for Alexander McQueen’s white Haute Couture collection at Givenchy in Paris. In 2003, he won The Dream Weaver award alongside Jean Paul Gaultier, Dolce and Gabbanna and Donna Karan. 
Treacy has also expanded his craft to include bags, gloves, glassware and furniture. His most notable and extravagant pieces lie in the world of headwear, though. He has stunned fans with unthought-of designs and constantly reinvents one of the most basic fashion pieces. From telephone-shaped hats to ethereal crowns, Treacy has proven he can do it all. 
How his crazy and creative concoc­tions will fit in with the style of the more conservative Middleton remains to be seen. 
Who enlisted Treacy to construct two classy covers for her wedding day coif? 
Camilla Parker Bowles, Duchess of Cornwall and wife of Prince Charles. Thus, we know the milliner is capable of putting together demure designs and polished pieces. 
Look to Treacy’s Autumn/Winter 2011 Ready to Wear collection for proof of his subtle mastery. Teal, fuch­sia, lavender and a musky brown dominate the scores of hats, some with an air of mystery and others exuding confidence. From a single flower to bouquets of blooms, the accents atop the models’ heads spell out utter sophistication. 
Treacy is sure to create memorable and elegant pieces for Middleton on the day she transforms from a com­moner into a princess. Her Royal wed­ding will be the perfect occasion for all of Treacy’s dreams to come true. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Friday, March 4, 2011 page 9 


from belting lines like “No prayer, no prom-though it certainly won’t put listeners to water. 
By WARD PETTIBONE 

ise, no hand of God could save their souls sleep. Still, “Going Out In Style” is a fine 
Scene Writer 

that April day / Tell their wives that they “Peg O’ My Heart” has a cameo by album. The Murphys are in top shape 
If you’re not ready for a brawl by the fought brave-Bruce Springsteen, of instrumentally, and they race through the end of “Going Out In Style,” there’s not ly as they lay 
all people. But his thirteen tracks with only a few pauses for much anyone can do for you. Dropkick them in their unexpected arrival is reflection (the drinking joke makes itself). Murphys’ seventh studio album, released graves” with far from jarring -in The band wanted to give fans a good time, just in time for St. Patrick’s Day, is chock-all the inebri-fact, his familiar rough and in that regard, they succeeded. full of what the Murphys are known for: ated boastful-voice fits right in and If there is one album you should buy drunken vocals, driving Celtic melodies, ness he’s got. lends the song some between now and March 17th, this is it. and bagpipes -lots and lots of bagpipes. That’s variety. The album Listening to this album is like being steam-not to say it’s ends weakly with the Contact Ward Pettibone at rolled by a shamrock. all drunken unremarkable “Irish wpettibo@nd.edu 
The Murphys follow their formula, s c r e a m i n g Rover,” which by this but it is a formula that works: the album is (though there point is just more of bold, brash, and fun. The band have said it is no lack of the same. Of course, by is a concept album, following the story of a t h a t ) . now, most St. Patrick’s character named Cornelius Larkin, but it is Subtlety is Day listeners wouldn’t not an easy story to follow, what with all not the even notice. the slurring and shouting. M u r p h y s ’ The Murphys are 
“Hang ‘Em High” is a strong opening forte, but not doing anything and one of the best tracks, setting the tone there are moments that recall Ireland’s new with “Going Out In Style”. Little has for an album that is upbeat and mare than verdant hills more than its pubs (the first changed since “The Warrior’s Code” (which a little tipsy, but not afraid to be reflective thirty seconds of “Deeds Not Words,” for included “I’m Shipping Up to Boston”), and sentimental. “Broken Hymns” is, not example). After about seven tracks, though, aside from a new mandolinist and Tim surprisingly, one of the quieter songs -at the mile-a-minute drums and frenetic elec-Brennan taking up the guitar. Many of the points it could even be called “beautiful” -tric guitars start feeling repetitive. The rel-songs begin to blend into each other even if but none of that stops lead singer Al Barr ative calm of “1953” is a welcome sound, all you’ve had to drink today is mineral 
Going Out in Style 
Dropkick Murphys Label: Born & Bred Records Recommended: “Hang ‘Em High,” “Peg O’ My Heart,” “Going Out in Style” 



onstage antics. A regular on the ance is likely to live up to the title 


By COURTNEY COX 
festival scene, he has been of the venue in which it is held 
Scene Writer 
known to direct crowds number-and truly be legendary. The only 

One of indie music’s most ing close to 20,000 people in dif-thing that remains to be seen is dynamic artists will fill Legends ferent acts that serve to enhance whether the same place that Saturday night. his musical talent. At hosts “Hip Hop Night” can be 
Dan Deacon, a Baltimore-based Lollapalooza in 2009 he com-conducive to a performance as electronic phenom whose 2009 pelled members of the crowd to innovative as a Dan Deacon con-album “Broomst” received rave join together into a gigantic cert. reviews, changed the way elec-conga line that weaved through-Walkling believes that Deacon tronic music is perceived in the out the rest of the audience. will be able to pull out all the ultra-judgmental hipster scene. Some members of his own band stops for an incredible perform­
Deacon’s music can be charac-even joined at the end of the line. ance. terized as sort of pseudo-dance He has also been rumored to “I do expect the same sort of music. The build up to the truly get crowds to form a circle spiral-extravagant live show this week-thrilling moments in his music is ing inward towards the center, end. Deacon loves to bring a decidedly slow, but it’s worth the where Deacon himself performs unique sort of interactive quality wait. For example, “Snookered,” until he departs via airlift. to his shows, whether it’s actually a song off “Broomst,” runs close In fact the interaction with the performing in the crowd or to eight minutes. He takes listen-crowd is Deacon’s defining char-encouraging dancing among the ers on a journey from the begin-acter. When not playing for large audience,” Walking said. “For ning moments of the song and crowds he performs in the center example, I saw a video once of once the end is reached its diffi-of the audience so that they are him forming a giant, high-fiving cult to determine just how many close to the action and able to whirlpool in the crowd. I can songs were packed into the span feel as though they are truly part only hope that Notre Dame, Saint of time spent listening to of the experience rather than just Mary’s and Holy Cross students Deacon’s captivating manipula-watching someone perform. get to experience the same sort of tion of bizarre instruments and In choosing Dan Deacon as unique concert-going experience auto-tune. their Spring concert, WFVI is this Saturday.” 
More captivating than Dan attempting to revolutionize the 
Contact Courtney Cox at 

Deacon’s music, and the reason concert experience on campus, his performance at Legends is so Walkling said. ccox3@nd.edu 


highly anticipated, is his show-“We wanted to bring someone manship. to the campus of Notre Dame 
“WVFI selected Dan Deacon in who would defy the expectations part because of his renown as an and conventions of a typical con-interactive and entertaining per-cert,” she said. “Dan Deacon’s former and in part because of the high-energy electronic music and quality and innovation of his participatory performances were music,” said Nicolle Walkling, exactly the sort of welcome station manager of WVFI — departure that we wanted.” which combined with Legends to If Deacon performs in the host Deacon. unique way for which he has 
Deacon is notorious for his become renowned, the perform-

On campus 
What: Dan Deacon Concert Where: LegendsWhen: Saturday, March 6,at 10 p.m.How much: Free for ND/SMC/HCLearn more: nd.edu/~wvfi 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 4, 2011 
NFL 



Owners, NFLPA agree to one-day extension 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — America’s favorite sport is still in busi­ness — for another day. 
The NFL and the players’ union decided Thursday to keep the current collective bar­gaining agreement in place for an additional 24 hours so that negotiations can continue. 
“The parties have agreed to a one-day extension,” federal mediator George Cohen said in a one-sentence statement after the sides met with him for about eight hours. The CBA was set to expire at midnight, which would likely have prompted the first work stop­page since 1987 for a league that rakes in $9 billion a year. 
“For all our fans who dig our game, we appreciate your patience as we work through this,” union executive director DeMaurice Smith said as he emerged from the talks. “We are going to keep working. We want to play football.” 
Said NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell as he left: “We are working as hard as we can.” 
Allowing the CBA to expire could put the two sides on the road to a year without football, even though opening kickoff of the 2011 season is still six months away. The labor unrest comes as the NFL is at the height of its popularity, break­ing records for TV ratings: This year’s Super Bowl was the most-watched program in U.S. history. 
If the CBA expires, the own­ers could lock out the players, and the union could decertify to try and prevent that through the courts — something the NFLPA did in 1989. It formed again in 1993. 
NFL lead negotiator Jeff Pash said the sides had “good dis­cussions and exchanges,” and “we’re going to be back here (Friday) morning.” 
A person with knowledge of the talks said the 24-hour extension was an opportunity to decide whether there would be a willingness to extend negotiations further. 
The person, who spoke to the AP on the condition of anonymity because the talks were supposed to remain con­fidential, said the sides were apart on economics, but have agreed on other topics. The person would not say what the two sides do agree on. 
Washington Redskins player representative Vonnie Holliday cautioned that the two sides are “still apart” on a pact to replace the current CBA. “I don’t see how we can be that close right now unless some­body is going to pull a rabbit out of the hat,” he said. “I just don’t see it.” 
While the league and play­ers’ union met for a 10th day with Cohen, even President Barack Obama weighed in when asked if he would inter­vene in the dispute. 
“I’m a big football fan,” Obama said, “but I also think that for an industry that’s mak­ing $9 billion a year in rev­enue, they can figure out how to divide it up in a sensible way and be true to their fans, who are the ones who obviously allow for all the money that they’re making. So my expec­tation and hope is that they will resolve it without me intervening, because it turns out I’ve got a lot of other stuff to do.” 
Besides Goodell, also on hand for the NFL were Pash, outside counsel Bob Batterman, New York Giants owner John Mara, Green Bay Packers president Mark Murphy, Washington Redskins general manager Bruce Allen and several other league exec­utives. Mara and Murphy are members of the league’s labor committee, which has the authority to call for a lockout if a new agreement isn’t reached. 
“We’ll stay at it as long as it takes,” Pash said as the day began. 
They’ll be staying at least into Friday. 
The biggest sticking point all along has been how to divide the league’s revenues, includ­ing what cut team owners should get up front to help cover certain costs, such as stadium construction. Under the old deal, owners received about $1 billion off the top. They entered these negotia­tions seeking to add another $1 billion to that. 
Among the other significant topics: a rookie wage scale; the owners’ push to expand the regular season from 16 games to 18 while reducing the pre­season by two games; and ben­efits for retired players. 
Since the 1987 players’ strike that shortened the season to 15 games — with three of those games featuring nonunion replacement players 
— there has been labor peace in the NFL. The foundation of the current CBA was reached in 1993 by then-Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and union chief Gene Upshaw. It has been extended five times as rev­enues soared, the league expanded to 32 profitable teams, and new stadiums were built across America to house them. 
The contract extension reached in 2006 was the final major act for Tagliabue, who then retired, succeeded by Goodell. An opt-out clause for each side was included in that deal, and the owners exercised it in May 2008 — three months before Upshaw died. 
Smith replaced Upshaw in March 2009. 
Joining Smith at the media­tion session Thursday were union president Kevin Mawae, New Orleans Saints quarter­back Drew Brees, Indianapolis Colts center Jeff Saturday, Pittsburgh Steelers backup quarterback Charlie Batch and several others, including cur­rent and former players. More than a dozen TV cameras and twice as many reporters wait­ed on the sidewalk outside the mediation headquarters, along with a few fans. 
A George Washington University student held up a yellow homemade sign: “Don’t Make Me Watch Hockey,” it read. 
MLB 


Indians outfielder Sizemore recovering from surgery 
Associated Press 
GOODYEAR, Ariz. — Grady Sizemore takes one final, healthy cut in the batting cage and scoops up a few stray baseballs scattered on the infield grass. After pausing to sign autographs for a few fans, he heads off to the next phase of his daily workout. 
By himself. A consummate team player, Sizemore’s on his own. 
He jogs past teammates, who shuffle by in groups of two and three heading toward the Indians’ clubhouse. They stop and stomp their metal cleats on the sidewalk to remove dirt before heading inside for lunch. Sizemore’s on a different schedule. 
Arriving at a back field behind Cleveland’s training complex, Sizemore takes another step in recovery from microfracture sur­gery on his left knee. With two trainers watching, the three-time All-Star center fielder runs half-speed around three orange cones. 
He repeats the drill several times. It’s a strange sight: Sizemore, blessed with such great speed, moving so deliberately. 
On another sunswept March morning in Arizona, the nearby Estrella Mountains provide a gor­geous backdrop as Sizemore con­tinues his own uphill climb. 
It’s a tedious ascent. 
“I’m not looking to push things,” Sizemore said. “I don’t want to make things worse. We’re taking slow steps. We’re going to get there. I’m just being patient.” 
Earlier this week, Indians gener­al manager Chris Antonetti acknowledged for the first time that it’s unlikely that Sizemore will be ready by opening day on April 
1. That’s been the 28-year-old’s stated goal all along, but it now appears that Sizemore’s 2011 debut with Cleveland will be delayed. 
And, at this point, no one knows with any certainty when he’ll be back in manager Manny Acta’s lineup. 
Barring any problems, the team anticipates that Sizemore, cleared this week to begin agility drills, will play Cactus League games in two weeks. However, nothing is set in stone. There’s no need to rush. The Indians aren’t nearly as concerned with Sizemore being with them at the start of this season. They want him for the finish. 
After all, they need him for this year — and beyond. 
He’s the face of the Indians. Sizemore’s been the team’s most popular player almost since the moment he was called up from the minors in 2004. His chiseled looks made him an instant hit with Cleveland’s female fan base. And his rare combination of speed, power and all-out hustle won over the guys. 
Former GM and current team president Mark Shapiro once dubbed Sizemore “one of the greatest players of our generation.” He seemed indestructible, playing in all 162 games in 2006 and 2007, and 157 in 2008. Sizemore would-n’t take a day off, further endear­ing him to Cleveland’s blue-collar constituency. 
But his 2009 season was sabo-taged and cut short by injuries. He Richard Steadman drilled holes made it through just 33 games last into Sizemore’s knee cap, causing year before undergoing surgery in bleeding to hopefully stimulate car-Vail, Colo., on June 4, when Dr. tilage growth. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxury options at Dublin 
Village, Irish Crossings, Oak Hill and North Shore Club. CES Property Management. Call 574-298-4206, 
www.cespm.info ——————————————— 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu ——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
——————————————— Ryan: Did this happen on company property? 

Michael Scott: It was on company property, with company property. So, double jeopardy, we're fine. 
Ryan: I don't think-- I don't think you understand how jeopardy works. 
Michael Scott: Oh, I'm sorry. What is, 'we're fine'? 
——————————————— Jim Halpert: Does that include 'that's what she said'? 
Michael Scott: Mmhh, yes. 
Jim Halpert: Wow that is really hard. You really think you can go all day long? Well, you always left me satisfied and smiling. 
Michael Scott: Mmmm... THAT'S WHAT SHE SAID! 
——————————————— Jim Halpert: One day Michael came in, complaining about a speed bump, on the highway... I wonder who he ran over then. 
——————————————— 
Because the house always wins. Play long enough, the house takes you. Unless, when that perfect hand comes, you bet big. Then, you take the house. 
——————————————— 

Friday March 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 

Storrs 
continued from page 16 
lowing a tough loss to Big East foe Syracuse. But this time around, the Irish travel to Storrs, Conn., a site that has not treated them well. 
“We have not won in Connecticut since I have been here,” Brey said. “Our poise and concentration needs to be there for a full 40 minutes.” 
The Huskies (21-8, 9-8) are led by Kemba Walker, who is the Big East’s second leading scorer, aver­aging 22.8 points per game. In the Huskies loss in South Bend, the junior guard led the team in points, rebounds, assists and steals but was shut down by Irish senior guard Ben Hansbrough while shooting just 8-for-23 from the field. 
Meanwhile, the Irish are coming off a record shooting night (55.8 
percent from the field) where they of emotions run into it, but we drained a school-record 20 3-have a few days off here to get pointers, with fourth-year forward some rest and fire it back up for Tim Abromaitis [UConn]. contributing Hopefully we can 
nine of them in a 93-72 over No. 19 Villanova vic­tory Monday.  “We have not won in Connecticut since I have been here. Our  end the season with a win there and keep the m o m e n t u m  
Abromaitis and H a n s b r o u g h each scored 30 points on a night  poise and concentration needs to be there for a full 40  going.” In their last meeting on Jan. 4, the Irish duo of  
that seemed as though they  minutes.”  Hansbrough and Abromaitis com­ 
couldn’t miss.  bined  for  40  
But even after  Mike Brey  points and held  
the big win, the  Irish coach  only two Huskies  
Irish  remain  shooters to dou­ 
focused on clos­ ble-figure points.  

ing out the regular season strong-The Irish won 73-30. Senior for­ly. ward Tyrone Nash also added 11 
“All year long we’ve been able points, while leading the rebound-to move on pretty well to the next ing effort with seven rebounds. game,” Abromaitis said after his Nash also earned a double-double record-tying performance. “We with 11 rebounds in Monday’s know this is a great win, and a lot win, out-rebounding the Wildcats 30-19. The Irish are 21-1 this year when out-rebounding their oppo­nents this season, something that Nash hopes to build on Saturday. 
“We still have to take care of our business,” Nash said. “We have to go up to Storrs and beat up on Connecticut. As long as you do what you have to do, let every­thing else take care of itself.” 

The Irish cap off their stellar season this weekend with a visit to Connecticut at 2 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
NFL 

Hawk returns to Packers one day after cost-cutting release 
mail to The Associated Press. released him Wednesday, they his release, and McCartney told Hawk began the 2010 season as 
Associated Press 

The team announced the deal did so with the hope that they AP on Thursday morning that the a role player. He ended it as a 
MILWAUKEE — A.J. Hawk’s Thursday evening. could bring him back at a two sides were putting the finish-leader of a Super Bowl-champion absence from the Green Bay “We are pleased to have reduced salary. ing touches on a contract. defense. Packers didn’t last long. reached an agreement with A.J.,” Thompson said Wednesday the Terms of the new deal were not After season-ending injuries to 
Hawk’s agent, Mike McCartney, Packers general manager Ted business side of the game drove immediately available. inside linebackers Nick Barnett said Thursday that the linebacker Thompson said. “We appreciate the decision to release Hawk and It came on a day the collective and Brandon Chillar, Hawk once signed a five-year deal with the his work and dedication and look he was hopeful Hawk would bargaining agreement between again became a starter and Packers just one day after he was forward to his contributions to return. Hawk was free to negoti-NFL owners and the NFL Players played a critical role in the released in a cost-cutting move. our team in the future.” ate with other teams after his Association was set to expire, Packers’ push to their Super 
“He’s thrilled to be back with Hawk, the No. 5 overall pick in release, but clearly focused on although the two sides later Bowl victory over the Pittsburgh his Super Bowl-winning team-the 2006 NFL draft, previously the Packers. agreed to a 24-hour extension. Steelers. He was chosen one of mates and a first-class organiza-was scheduled to earn $10 mil-Multiple media outlets reported Despite his lofty draft status the team’s captains in the play­tion,” McCartney said in an e-lion in 2011. When the Packers a new deal was imminent after and hardworking reputation, offs. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 4, 2011 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 

Irishreadyforlastchance to qualify for NCAA 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
With the NCAA Championships only a week away, Notre Dame competes in the Alex Wilson Invitational this weekend in the hopes of qualify­ing participants for the national competition. This weekend marks the final opportunity ath­letes can qualify for the champi­onships, as Irish coach Joe Piane positioned individual and relay medley competitors strate­gically in order to increase his players’ chances of reaching the tournament. 
Piane faced one such decision in the 1200-meter distance med­ley. With sophomore Jeremy Rae, graduate student Jack Howard and freshman Pat Feeney initially chosen to be three of the four competitors, the final choice came down to two runners. 
“[It] was between [junior] John Shawel and [junior] Jordan Carlson,” Piane said. “The thing that had us on the fence was Shawel had a bit of a sprained ankle. But I’m going to run him tomorrow because he seems to be in pretty good shape. And that then provides an opportuni­ty for Jordan Carlson to run the next day in the open-mile fresh. If John’s ankle wasn’t perfect, then I wouldn’t do it — I’d put Carlson in there.” 
On the women’s side, Piane is also anticipating seeing a num­ber of runners compete in the Invitational. 
Johnson 
continued from page 16 
unity, which has paid divi­dends on the field and increased their confidence overall, Johnson said. 
“I think if we just play our 
“We’re excited about [sopho­more middle distance runner] Rebecca Tracy, [junior distance runner] Rachel Velarde [and sophomore sprinter] Nevada Sorenson in the hurdles,” Piane said. “And we’re really anxious to see Michelle Brown run in the 400-meter. She’s very good, so hopefully she has a breakout meet Saturday.” 
Piane emphasized that while it may be the final meet before the NCAA championships, the focus of the upcoming meet will be qualifying for the postseason. 
“It’s a look to get qualified for the NCAAs,” Piane said. “[Junior] Kevin Schipper hope­fully can do it in the pole vault, [and] hopefully our distance medley can do it.” 
The meet has a unique num­ber of participants. Rather than typical meets in which full teams participate, the invitational con­sists of many teams who send only a few competitors. 
“[Teams] like Georgia Tech will be here, but they’re going to send one athlete,” Piane said. “So there’s probably going to be representatives from as many as 40 or 50 schools. But that does­n’t mean they’re going to bring 25 people. This is a last chance meet. We’ll probably have 700 to 800 athletes at least.” 
The Alex Wilson Invitational will take place in the Loftus Sports Complex tonight at 7 p.m. and continues Saturday at noon. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
game, we’ll be fine,” Johnson said. 
The Irish kick off the week­end’s games with a matchup against Longwood (8-0) at 10 
a.m. Saturday at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

Current team to face alumni 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After finishing fifth at the TPC Match Play in Tampa Bay, Fla., three weeks ago to begin the fall season, Notre Dame looks to improve on that performance this week­end as it travels to Whisper Rock Golf Club in Scottsdale, Ariz., for the Alumni Matches. The matches feature the cur­rent Irish squad of 11 players pitted against 11 Notre Dame golf alumni. 
“It’s not really too com­petitive of a competition,” junior Tom Usher said. “But everyone wants to win, and we’re looking at this as an opportunity to prepare for the rest of our season.” 
The Irish are led by No. 1 Usher and Josh Walker at No. 2. However, the bottom three in the lineup came up big for Notre Dame in Tampa to begin the season. Sophomore Paul McNamara, fresh ­man Niall Platt, and jun­ior Max Scodro look to build upon their strong performances at TPC when they lifted the Irish to victory with three clutch wins down the stretch. 
Usher lost in a tiebreak­er last year for the Big East individual champi­onships title and looks to build upon both that tri­umph and disappointment beginning in Arizona. 
A native of England, Usher leads a dedicated corps of golfers who have spent the winter honing their shots and completing work­outs indoors to prepare for the grind of the spring sea­son. 
“This will be our final tune -up before we go to Georgia next weekend to play Yale,” Usher said. “All the boys are coming and it should be a good time.” 
It will be just the second time out on the links in a competitive match for the No. 26 Irish, as the South Bend winter has limited the playing schedule. For a team that has been training indoors for the majority of 
the winter, any time on the course is precious, as a num­
b e r  o f  p l a y e r s  f l e w  t o  
Scottsda le last weekend  to  
train.  

Following the Alumni Matches, the Irish will com­pete every weekend until the Big East championships at the end of April. For a team with eyes on a conference title and perhaps more, the Alumni Matches will be the final pit stop before a gruel­ing season of travel. 
The Alumni Matches begin March 5 at Whisper Rock Golf Club in Scottsdale, Ariz. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 




Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

Dupra 
continued from page 16 
formance last weekend. 
Senior Cole Johnson (1-1) was credited with a loss despite throwing seven score­less innings and giving up only one run. Johnson will face the Eagles ’ Tyler Mizenko in the second half of a Friday doubleheader and looks to improve upon his already-strong 2.03 ERA. 
Senior Todd Miller (1 -1) threw a strong 6.1 innings in the second Sunday game last weekend and will start Saturday against Winthrop’s Matteo DeAngelo, who has fallen to 0-2 to start the sea­son and brings a 9.00 ERA to the contest. Sunday’s pitchers have not been announced. 
Strong pitching perform­ances will mean little for the Irish if their bats do not come alive this weekend. Notre Dame’s seven runs last week­end were the fewest in a three-game series in nearly a year, and the team’s .151 bat­ting average during the Seattle series was the lowest since a 1999 series against FIU. 
The Irish look to emulate their opening-weekend suc­cess on offense, which includ­ed a 19-run explosion against Purdue. 
The Irish face Manhattan at noon Friday, followed by a matchup against Winthrop at 4 p.m Friday. Saturday fea­tures a second game against Winthrop at 4 p.m. and a Sunday game against Manhattan at 11 a.m. All games will take place in Winthrop, S.C. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish put losses out of sight, out of mind 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
After suffering losses in their final two matches of the Blue-Gray National Tennis Classic last week­end, the Irish (8-6) have their eyes set on defeating two talented opponents this weekend and put­ting the losses behind them. 
On Friday evening, No. 24 Notre Dame will host No. 18 Texas A&M, as the string of ranked opponents the Irish have faced continues. 
“Texas A&M was a preseason top-10 team and is in the top-20 now,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “Their talent level is clearly one of the highest in the country and we know they will be a great opponent. 
Much of the Aggies’ success is due to No. 1 singles player and senior Austin Krajicek. He anchors a talented squad that is successful in a very talented region of the country for tennis. Krajicek even competed in the 2008 U.S. Open. 
“Austin is an excellent player,” Sachire said. 
The Irish will have Saturday off before facing No. 60 Northwestern at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Sunday afternoon. Despite his team not being as highly ranked as the Aggies, Sachire noted that the Irish cannot afford to overlook the Wildcats. 
“Northwestern might be ranked a bit lower than they should be for their talent level,” he said. “We know both matches will be very good.” 
Sachire said the level of compe­tition the Irish have faced would only help them as the season pro­gresses. Notre Dame has faced No. 1 Virginia, No. 4 Illinois, No. 8 Michigan and No. 9 Duke. 
“College tennis is really competi­tive, especially this year,” Sachire said. “There are 40 to 50 teams that can all beat each other. The difference is we’ve played four top-10 opponents on our schedule, which is one of the best in the country.” 
Even though the Irish have had some tough losses to talented teams, they are certainly a team that any opponent should be con­cerned about playing. 
“For our guys 90 percent of what we have been doing puts us in a position to win,” Sachire said. “We just have to continue to put ourselves in the right position and take the next step and win some of these matches.” 
The Irish welcome Texas A&M to campus at 6 p.m. Friday, with the Wildcats capping off the week­end Sunday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Ridgway 
continued from page 16 

attention-grabbing plays because he makes plays very well over and over again.” 
Ridgway, a co-captain, said that he will take Drexel (1-2) as just another game on the sched­ule, and the key will be to stick with the game plan. 
“I think [we] pretty much just play the way we’ve been play­ing. We look at it as another opportunity, another challenge to go out there,” he said. “They’ve got a couple guys back from last year who are good. Whether it be communi­cation or trust in each other, we’ve got to play the way we play.” 
Ridgway emphasized the importance of trusting his teammates on defense. 
“For instance, if a guy is guarding his man, we have a trust that he won’t get beat at all, which gives us a focus to tighten up on our own man and not give them looks inside,” Ridgway said. “Just knowing that your teammates will be in the right place at the right time, and knowing they’ll have your backs is a key element of how we play.” 
Irish sophomore goalie John Kemp said communication is necessary in order for the Irish to beat a Drexel team that they fell to last year. 
“I guess they had our num­ber last year,” Kemp said. “At ND we’re known for our defense. I credit it to the com­munication we have, and we talk about it before, during and after the game, and that’s what’s important while playing defense. Other than that, we just go out there and do what we say we’re going to do and keep them from scoring.” 
Kemp is ready to contain the Dragons, an offensive unit that has combined to score 36 goals in their first three games of the season. 
“We game plan for everyone’s offense. I know that they have talented attackers; the top three scorers are attackmen,” Kemp said. “We’re looking forward to it. We’ve got to go at it intensely.” 
Kemp said he hopes the stu­dent body will be in attendance as the team looks to remain undefeated on the road to a national title. 
“Last year wasn’t a fluke. We made it all the way to the cham­pionship even though we didn’t have that good of a regular sea­son,” Kemp said. “We think we’re better this year. Hopefully they’ll come and support us, and we can hopefully give them a good game.” 
The Irish face off against Drexel at 1 p.m. Sunday in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 4, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish carry momentum from recent triumphs 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish put former troubles and losses in the past last weekend, enjoying their sweep of the Blue-Gray Tournament in Montgomery, Ala. This week­end, they hope to maintain that momentum as they head into a pair of matches against Indiana and Baylor. 
Following an upset of No. 9 Virginia last weekend, Irish sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan said the squad’s morale is in a good place. 
“Winning the Blue-Gray Tournament and being success­ful against three top-ranked teams gave us a nice boost in confidence,” McGaffigan said. 
McGaffigan was among the crucial members of the team that stepped up for a big week­end, starting the championship game with a victory in the first singles match. The No. 19 Irish went on to win each of the six singles competitions to defeat Virginia 4-0. 
“I’ve been working hard on staying focused each and every point, and to try to play smart and aggressively through the entire match,” McGaffigan said. 
Also contributing to the effort was the freshman duo of Jennifer Kellner and Julie Sabacinski, who triumphed over Virginia’s No. 51 pair 8-4. 
This weekend, McGaffigan and the rest of her teammates hope to do the same thing. 
“My goal is to improve and get stronger with each match,” she said. “We all will continue to push ourselves hard and build on our success last week­end.” 
Friday kicks off with a match against Indiana. Despite a 10-2 record, the Hoosiers are ranked 37th in the country after a 4-3 victory over Kentucky. Indiana carries a roster stacked with three sen­iors who bring experience to the court. 
Baylor, on the other hand, poses a more serious threat to the Irish. The No. 7 Bears recently swept No. 60 Fresno State by a score of 7-0. The Baylor doubles teams may pose a challenge for the No. 1 dou­bles team of juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews and the No. 2 doubles team of senior Kristen Rafael and soph­omore McGaffigan. 
“Last weekend really was the confidence booster we needed to go into the rest of the sea­son, especially for this week­end since we play Baylor,” Frilling said. “We know we can compete with and beat these top teams.” 


The Irish travel to Bloomington, Ind. Friday, where they compete against the Hoosiers at 3 p.m. Notre Dame hosts the Bears Sunday at noon. 
“Indiana and Baylor are both very good teams, but we are well prepared and eager to compete this weekend,” McGaffigan said. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Irish sophomore Chrissie McGaffgan competes in the Eck Classic Oct. 3. Last weekend she added a singles victory to defeat Virginia. 
Favorites 
continued from page 16 

Championship since the begin­ning of the season and are expected to be victorious at this weekend’s conference championships. Seroff said that as a Notre Dame fencer, high expectations come with the ter­ritory and it does not seem to affect the team. 
“Not to be pompous, but being a favorite is just part of being a fencer at ND. The sen­ior class has been ranked No. 1 for most of our careers as a result of our incredibly long winning streaks, and some of the underclassmen haven’t even experienced not being number one,” Seroff said. “As such, we don’t think too much about it, since for the last cou­ple years we’ve been number one going into NCAA champi­onships, and every year we’ve come up short. It has taught us that the rankings mean noth­ing.” 
The current senior class has been one of the most successful classes in Notre Dame fencing history and Seroff explained how important it was to the seniors to go out as champions. 
“This senior class was one of the most highly-touted recruit­ing classes in recent college fencing history. Since when we all came in as freshmen, it has only been disappointment, and underachieving,” Seroff said. “For the first couple years it was inexperience and growing pains, but we’re fresh out of excuses. Other than losing Olympian Gerek Meinhart to injury, all the pieces are in place — it’s time to execute. It’s time to take one from the women’s soccer team and bring gold home to Notre Dame.” 
The conference champi­onships will take place all day Saturday and Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


HENRI ARNOLD

LAURA McGINN 
JUMBLE

TUESDAY VAR ETY SHOW 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, March 4, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Brey leads team into season-closing game 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
With one more game before the Big East tournament, Notre Dame has exceeded expectations — and its preseason No. 7 projected fin­ish in the Big East — by locking up a double-bye at Madison Square Garden. 
Heading into the last game of the regular season, the No. 8 Irish (25-5, 13-4 Big East) find them­selves in great position to claim the regular season Big East title with a win and a Pittsburgh loss to No. 19 Villanova. 
“We needed to prepare this week like Saturday is a champi­onship game because it very well may be,” Irish coach Mike Brey said at his Thursday press confer­ence. 
Standing in Notre Dame’s way is No. 16 Connecticut, whom the Irish defeated on 73-70 Jan. 4 fol-
see STORRS/page 11 
Title seeking 


KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer Irish senior guard Ben Hansbrough sets up a play during Notre Dame’s 93-72 victory over Villanova Monday. Hansbrough scored 30 points in the win. 
FENCING 
Irish use first place advantage 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The top-ranked Irish may have an extra leg up this week­end when they host the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships this weekend — that of home-field advantage. 
Senior Andrew Seroff explained that he expects the Irish to be challenged and this tournament is great prepara­tion for NCAA tournament. 
“Conference championships is always an intense tournament, because not only are we vying for winning the title, but it is also the closest tournament in intensity to the NCAA champi­onships,” Seroff said. “It’s the best measure of how well the team competes together, under pressure, against quality oppo­nents like Ohio State.” 
The Irish have been heavy favorites to win the National 
see FAVORITES/page 14 
ND SOFTBALL 

Confidence high with undefeated record still in place 
Johnson said. “I think every-The Irish did not leave many a minimum and stay strong Irish.
By KELSEY MANNING 

one’s really excited.” batters on base, especially in a defensively. “[Alabama] should be a good
Sports Writer 

After sweeping the field last 10-1 victory over Marist in “Defensively, we’ve been matchup,” senior catcher weekend at the College of which the Irish totaled 13 hits, working on a lot of short game Alexia Clay said. “They are 
After kicking off the season Charleston Invitational with a 10 runs, and nine RBIs in 27 at because were going to see a lot always a really good team and 9-0, a record start, the Irish double shutout Saturday and a bats. of fast batters,” Johnson said. play in a tough conference. look to continue their winning strong offensive performance “We need to keep that up,” “We’re just going have to catch Two years ago we played streak against a number of on Sunday, the Irish hope to Johnson said. “Our place hit-and get rid of the ball as fast against them and lost 18-1, so premier programs, including capitalize off their momentum ters did a nice job keeping us as possible, so that’s been our it will be interesting to see No. 3 Alabama this weekend at heading into the weekend in the games.” main focus this week.” how we match up with them the Diamond 9 Citrus Classic in stretch. With stronger competition in Of the matchups to come, now.” Kissimmee, Fla. Johnson said, “having quality the form of Longwood, Alabama could be the toughest The team has been making 
“The whole team is really bats and scoring when people Alabama, Maryland, North test for Notre Dame, as the steady progress this season confident because this is the were in scoring position” was Carolina and Fordham await-Crimson Tide boast a 16-0 especially in terms of team best start we’ve ever had,” a highlight from last weekend’s ing them this weekend, the record this season and a 4-0 senior captain Heather victories in the Cougar Classic. Irish will look to keep errors to record all-time against the see JOHNSON/page 12 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Defense leads way at home 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Continuing their quest for a national title, the No. 4 Irish look to their defense to get revenge on No. 18 Drexel in Notre Dame’s home opener. 
The Irish (2-0) will be led by the Big East defensive player of the week in senior defenseman Kevin Ridgway, who has provided the Irish with consistency from the defensive unit so far this season. 
“The beauty of [Ridgway] as a player is you don’t notice him. He’s just kind of quietly and effec­tively doing his job,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “He doesn’t catch your eye, but we noticed in film this week that he’s doing a great job for us. He’s not a guy you see involved in a lot of fancy, 
see RIDGWAY/page 13 

BASEBALL 
ND looks to rebound in South Carolina 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
After dropping two of three games against Seattle University last weekend, the Irish head to warmer cli­mates as they participate in the Winthrop Coca -Cola Classic. Notre Dame (3-3) will play four games, two against Manhattan (1-3) and two against host Winthrop (2-5). 
Cold weather hampered the Irish in last weekend’s trip in the Pacific Northwest, where the Irish picked up a win in the first game and then dropped both halves of a Sunday doubleheader. Freezing rain made hitting and pitching difficult, as adverse weather conditions clearly played a factor in the final outcome. Despite three solid perform­ances from the starting rotation, the offense failed to put runs on the board. 
Senior Brian Dupra (1-1) earned his first win of the season last week with a career-high 11 strikeouts and will start in the opening game of the Coca -Cola Classic against the Jaspers’ John Soldinger (1-0). Dupra boasts a 1.38 ERA, which is due in large part to the strength of his shutout per-
see DUPRA/page 13 


Graphic illustration by Blair Chemidlin and Dan Jacobs 

page 2 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 4, 2011 
Powers’ experience defined by Bouts mission 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Walking down the stairs into the Pit in the catacombs of the JACC, the sound of a rhythmic, soothing throb — almost that of a heartbeat — came closer and closer. It turned out to be a boxer and his opponent for the day: a punching bag. Yet as the beat came nearer, senior captain Bobby Powers realized that the real heartbeat was actual­ly farther away. Much, much farther — the very south of Asia to be exact. 


That heartbeat is kept alive today by co-president Bobby Powers and the senior cap­tains, both as they trained that afternoon against the bags and through fundraising for a cause thousands of miles away against the odds. 
Powers’ defining moment in Bengal Bouts isn’t the cham­pionship he won sophomore year nor is it the fact that he has been in the finals in each of the past four years. Rather, it was venturing to Bangladesh after his title, seeing how much he has helped a community and how much more he still needed to help it. 
“There was a transforma­tion within me,” Powers said of his trip to Bangladesh the summer before his junior year. “Going over there and making relationships with people and seeing what the money is going to has com­pletely changed the program. It became a lot more about raising the money and aiding the missions than it was about boxing. The experience really opened up my eyes to a whole different world and how much the people over there need this.” 
Powers’ selfless demeanor gleams through his words, which give credit for his suc­cess and that of the program’s to his fellow captains — in the purest form of individual sports, a sport in which the concept of “team” is nonexist­ent. 
“You’re in the ring and it is just you,” Powers said. “You learn more about you in those six minutes than you do in years of your life by just see­ing how deep you can dig. 
“But on a day-to-day basis it all comes down to the guys here. This team has become a family and we have all put in so much time to boxing and fundraising to make sure we aid these missions,” Powers said. 
Uninterested in the individ­ual attention yet enamored with how he (or according to Powers: they) turned an indi­vidual sport into a team sport, the captain works on boxing at least six hours each day — four of those without even putting on a pair of gloves. 
Powers and his opponents-turned -roommates have worked countless hours push­ing themselves to be better in the ring, while focus­ing more so 
sometimes overly — competi­tive. With a brother one year younger, a friendly game of backyard basketball quickly and usually came to fisticuffs. Ten years later, substitute Mom with a referee and put gloves on the lad and you have a cham­pion fighter who has 
on building known noth­
“But on a day-to-day 
a program ing but the 
basis it all comes down to
that will final rounds continue to the guys here. This team under the aid the very bright lights. 
has become a family and 
same impov-“Growing 
we have all put in so
erished up with [my community much time to boxing and brother], we that he visit-fundraising.” were always ed two sum-pushing each mers ago. other to get 
Bobby Powers 
“We have better and worked real-senior co-president that’s where ly hard to it comes in spread the today, work-program out ing together and changed things to run it with others to always more like a business so we improve,” Powers said. can send more money back “Bengal Bouts in general has [to Bangladesh],” the senior shaped who I am. said. “I would like to see the Now the senior finds himself program continue to grow. If in his last fight as a Notre we raise a lot of money this Dame student, up against year and see the figures go opportunistic, feisty sopho­back down next year then we more Ryan Alberdi for the didn’t do our job. Our legacy championship belt. Powers should be leaving a founda-plans to fight smart and tion for this program, giving mechanically. years ahead a foundation to Of course, the senior wants build on and continue to to win, but he realizes that he grow.” leaves Bengal Bouts forever 
All of this comes from tonight, knowing that he has Powers, even though he didn’t already won in leaving that even know what Bengal Bouts heartbeat he heard his fresh-was until a friend suggested it men year stronger than when to him after playing interhall he arrived. football his freshman year. 
Powers grew up in Contact Andrew Gastelum at Indianapolis, very — and agastel1@nd.edu 

Golab grows from focused freshman to leader and captain 
things to look forward to. ly to improve conditioning 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Over the summer, Golab, but also to teach boxing 
Sports Writer 
along with Doran, traveled to techniques. Along the way, Bangladesh to help with the he tries to impart the respect 

Dominic Golab has only one mission Bengal Bouts sup-that is pervasive throughout boxer to thank for his ports — the Holy Cross Bengal Bouts. involvement in Bengal Bouts: Missions in Bangladesh, “It’s not about the individ-Rocky Balboa. The fictional which provide health care ual,” Golab said. “It’s about star motivated the and education in an attempt the team and people a world Birmingham, Mich., native to to battle poverty. away that need help.” give boxing a try, especially “It was probably one of the Golab enjoys working with since he would no longer be greatest experiences of my other boxers and pushing involved in varsity-level ath-life, ” Golab said. “I’ve them to get their best. A co­letics. learned so much, not only president as well, Golab, 
“I saw boxing as a great about myself but also about along with fellow co-presi­way to stay in shape and the world and boxing.” dent Bobby Powers, makes have that competitive spirit,” Golab gained a new admi-sure the tournament runs said Golab, a senior captain. ration for the Holy Cross smoothly and keeps the 
Golab has done much more brothers, sisters and fathers Bouts organized. than compete in his four who work tirelessly to pro-“If you had told me as a years with Bengal Bouts. vide for the impoverished in freshman that I would be in After making it to the finals Bangladesh. They only turn this position, I would have last year, Golab returns away people because they told you ‘You ’re crazy, ’” again this year, this time have to, but never because Golab said. “It’s probably the against undefeated three -they want to, Golab most rewarding experience time champion Bernardo explained. I’ve had.” Garcia in the 176 -pound “I learned how much I take During his first two years weight class. for granted here at home,” at Notre Dame, Bengal Bouts 
“I’m not intimidated by him Golab said. “Our struggles practice was the only things [and his accomplishments],” here are that we have a test that got Golab through the Golab said. “Winning is a the next day while they’re daily grind. Although still a match, handing the videotap-“I just want to thank my plus for me and I’m going struggling to find their next beginner at the time, he ing duties over to a friend. friends, especially those that into the fight relaxed and meal.” always looked forward to “My freshman year, I would have been here since fresh-whatever happens, happens.” Golab, who calls former practice later in the day, tell them that I won and my man year for supporting 
Golab’s perspective over opponent Doran one of his even if it meant a few atten-mom would say ‘Did you me,” Golab said. “They’ve the four years has changed good friends, relates Bengals tion lapses in class. really have to win? Now we been there for me, win or from a somewhat selfish, Bouts to a brotherhood. By “To me, it’s a little more have to go through another lose, the entire way.” win -hungry freshman to a training for four or five important than paying atten-match, ’” Golab said. “But For Golab, that entire way more team-oriented senior months with 200 teammates, tion to that lecture,” Golab they realize this is something has included a finals appear-captain. Last year, Golab — friendships are forged, Golab said. “School is important I love to do and it makes me ance, a trip to Bangladesh nicknamed the “Warsaw noted. but I feel that I learn so a better person, so they’re and maybe a career-capping Warhammer” — faced cur-Boxing is, by its nature, an much more in the ring.” all for it.” championship win on Friday rent captain Mike Doran in individual sport — yet Bengal For his finals bout last Golab also credited his night. the final bout and lost by Bouts does have captains. As year, Golab’s parents visited friends and their support for split decision. While disap-a captain, Golab works with to see his fight. Golab’s mom his heavy involvement in Contact Matthew DeFranks at pointed, Golab had bigger the new novice boxers, main-was unable to even watch the Bengal Bouts. mdefrank@nd.edu 


Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
Rivalry with Burroughs fuels Crepeau’s determination 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Senior Kevin Crepeau has built an accomplished boxing career during his time at Notre Dame. The Michigan City, Ind., native was named 
one of eight captains for Bengal Bouts this year and qualified for the heavyweight division’s title match for the fourth consecutive year. 
But one goal has always remained just out of reach: a championship. 
Each of the previous three seasons, Crepeau has come within one victory of earning a and I put up a better fight, but still lost. Sometimes in boxing you just run into a buzz saw. Will was a little bit of a buzz saw.” 
With Burroughs having graduated, Crepeau will face a different law student in the finals this time around: Nathan Arnold. Crepeau has mixed emotions about battling a new competitor. 
“I’m real happy that I’m not fighting [Burroughs] this year in the finals,” he said. “It will be nice to line up against someone different. Three beatings from him was plenty, so I’ll try my luck against a different guy. Although I guess if I had 

Bengal Bouts one more shot 
“I’m done with boxing
crown. But he at him, I think could never [after this year]. Getting I could get quite get over hit in the head gets old, him.” the hump Crepeau ’s
[but] I’m defnitely going
against law attributed his 
student Will to still be a part of the overall suc-
Burroughs, Bengal Bouts and stay a cess through-improving out the years 
part of the program.” 
each year, but to the passion still finishing he has for the 0-3 against Kevin Crepeau Bouts, start-the former senior captain ing before he law student. was even a 
“[My] fresh-student. While man year, I most competi­thought, tors do not ‘Okay, that was my freshman decide to participate in year. [Sophomore] year, I’m Bengal Bouts until they arrive going to get him,’” Crepeau on campus, Crepeau knew said. “And then sophomore from the moment he was year, I put up a good fight, but admitted to the university. lost. So junior year, I thought, “I’m from the same home­‘Last year I put up a good town as Pat Burns, who was fight. So this year I’m going to president of Bengal Bouts last put up a good fight and win,’ year. So when I was a senior in high school, I came up and watched him fight his fresh­man year and then when I got into Notre Dame, it was around the same time he was fighting, so that’s how I got into it. I figured it’s something I wanted to do.” 
While Crepeau has always loved the Bouts, it is not something that is easy, with lots of time and effort put in being necessary. 
“The season starts right after Thanksgiving break,” he said. “Basically it’s every day from right after Thanksgiving until now, Monday thru Friday. [There is] lots of con­ditioning, lots of aerobics and then heavy boxing after Christmas break.” 
The workouts can be espe­cially difficult for a heavy­weight like Crepeau. But to him, the effort is worth the benefits. 
“The workouts are definitely hard, especially for me. I’m not the most in-shape guy. But my freshman year, there was a particularly cool group of senior captains who were [okay with] saying, ‘We’re here to work hard for an hour and a half and then after that, let’s go out, let’s have some fun,’” he said. “It was [both] the social and the athletic aspect of it that I liked.” 
The lesson he learned then is something he tries to emu­late as a captain today. 
“I feel like boxing is defi­nitely secondary, especially in the heavyweights. There’s a tight-knit group of guys because there’s only eight of us. Just the other day, for example, I was teaching [Arnold] tips on how to fight a lefty, because he was fighting Joey Hiben [in the semifinals] and now he’s going to be using the tips I was telling him against me in the finals. So I’m kind of wishing I didn’t tell him a couple of those things, but that’s how it goes. Boxing’s secondary to I’d say the club aspect of it.” 
Crepeau, a finance major, intends to a become a finan­cial analyst for IBM after graduation. Though he does not plan on continuing a box­ing career after his career at Notre Dame ends, he says he hopes to stay involved. 
“I’m done with boxing [after this year]. Getting hit in the head gets old,” he said. “[But] I’m definitely going to still be a part of the Bengal Bouts and stay a part of the program.” 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

Doran reaches third straight championship 
to enter together. for him in the championships ing with the people, and he once again outperformed the 
By JACK HEFFERON 

“Early on I became friends was Mike Lee, now a profes-said that experience opened competition, and finds himself 
Sports Writer 

with Nick Severyn, and he told sional fighter, one of Doran’s his eyes to what Bengal Bouts in his third straight champi­me, ‘You’ve got to do this, it’s mentors and one of the best was all about. onship match. That consisten­a great time.’ So we got a boxers in Bengal Bouts histo-“We were only the second cy, coupled with his 11-2 life-
Ever since Knute Rockne bunch of freshmen together ry. That night’s fight is the group to be sent over, so I time record, puts Doran at a first organized a student box-and went to practice. A couple one Doran calls the best wasn’t sure what to expect at level of success few boxers ing tournament in 1920, thou-of guys ended up quitting, but moment he’s had in Bengal first,” he said. “I primarily have ever been able to sands of students have dedi-Nick, Bobby [Powers] and I Bouts. taught English, but we taught achieve. Doran’s final match cated themselves to beating have been doing this ever “Stepping up into that finals from primary schools to high will not be an easy one, as Bill all competitors and becoming since, and now we’re all cap-ring, it’s totally different from schools, and even some adults Straccia, a fellow senior, is a Bengal Bouts champion. For tains,” he said. all of the other and NGO standing in his way. However, senior captain Mike Doran, Doran lost in his second fights. It’s out in w o r k e r s . Doran said he was excited for though, Bengal Bouts is about fight that first year, but by the basketball Before this one last chance to step into much more than having his then he was already hooked arena, and that initiative we the ring for a championship. name called. on boxing and the Bouts. He place is packed,” had just “I’m feeling really excited 
“Stepping up into that
Doran first got involved with came back in his sophomore he said. “Mike been send -for Friday’s match,” Doran the bouts as a freshman when year and he made an impres-ended up beating fnals ring, it’s totally ing over said. “Billy’s a great kid and several of his friends decided sive run to the finals. Waiting me, but that different from all of money, but he’s really hungry this year. I 
experience was this allowed have a lot of tension between 
the other fghts.” 
unreal. That was us to bridge nervousness and excitement my ‘Welcome to the gap right now, but my family’s Boxing’ moment.” Mike Doran between us coming out, and I can’t wait.” 
One year later, senior captain and them. The lights in Purcell Pavilion Doran began Now, I feel will turn off eventually after training once like I really Friday’s fights, but Doran’s again for a title understand future beyond boxing is any-run. After anoth-the mission thing but dim. He will gradu­er string of victories, he found of what we’re doing here and ate in May with a degree from himself in a familiar spot: why we’re doing it.” the College of Business, but inside the Joyce Center with a Upon returning from the said he would stick around for shot at a title. This time, mission in Bangladesh last postseason play with his other Doran came out on top, win-summer, Doran knew that he team, club rugby. ning the 180-pound weight wanted to have a larger influ-“After that, I’m moving to class in a split decision over ence on the program he had Denver to do marketing for Dominic Golab. gotten to know so well. He Dish Network. I’m a big snow­
“I’ve really been able to applied to be a Bengal Bouts boarder, fisherman and moun­grow and mature throughout captain this year, and was taineer, so I’m looking for-my time in Bengal Bouts here accepted to be a leader of the ward to that,” Doran said. at Notre Dame, but I never next generation of fighters. “I’m very excited about the thought that I could be win-“A lot of the guys I’ve looked next stage of my life, but I’ll ning championships and doing up to have been captains,” definitely take a piece of this so well,” he said. Doran said. “This program is experience with me forever. 
A few months after that tri-phenomenal at taking high It’s been an honor to fight for umph, Doran was selected to school boys and turning them Our Lady’s University. There’s be one of four boxers to travel into men, and being a captain, nothing like competing in to Bangladesh through the having to bring them up and Bengal Bouts.” Center for Social Concerns. teach them, you play a large Doran spent nine weeks role in that process.” Contact Jack Hefferon at teaching English and interact-In his final year, Doran has wheffero@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 4, 2011 
143 pounds 

Brett Sassetti vs. Will Peterson 

PATH TO THE FINALS 
Sassetti 
Def. Cameron Shane in quarterfinals Def. Christopher Torres in semifinals 

The Elmwood Park, Petersono shows 
Peterson 

Illinois native and an exuberant fight-
Def. Samuel 

Carroll Hall resident ing style. The fresh-
Kaulbach in quarterfi­

uses a very aggressive man loves to use a
nals 

style that consists of big right hook to put 
Def. Kevin Dunne in 

putting the opponent the opponent against 
semifinals 

on his heels. Sassetti the ropes. The does not back down O’Neill Hall resident from a challenge, uti-from La Jolla, Calif. lizing a wide variety of lives up to his nick-combinations which name, “The Thrill,” have propelled him to by constantly being the finals. on the attack. 
PATH TO THE FINALS 
Ortenzio 
Def. James Walsh in quarterfinals Def. Brian Koepsel in semifinals 

The junior from Slaney, a senior, is 

Slaney 
Camp Hill, Penn. and experienced, and it Def. Michael Allare in 

Siegfried Hall has a shows. From North quarterfinals unique style. He is not East, Penn. and Carroll Def. Benjamin very aggressive early, Hall, Slaney provides aEichler in semifinals 

but as the second and 

stark contrast in style third rounds progress, 
from Ortenzio. He Ortenzio makes his 
refuses to sit back and move. With the oppo­
put his opponent away nent reeling from 
early in the fight. His fatigue, a fresh 
uses of hooks and Ortenzio often pulls 
uppercuts can be away late. 
lethal. 


PATH TO THE FINALS 
Powers 
Def. James Bowers in preliminaries. Def. Terry Howell is quarterfinals. Def. Matthew 

Powers has an Alberdi earned his 
Labriola in semifinals. 

extremely offensive spot in the 160 pound style and is not Weight Division final 
Alberdi 

afraid to advance on due largely to a vicious 
Def. Ryan Alberdi in 

his opponent in the left hook that catches 
preliminaries. 

opening seconds of his opponents off-guard. 
Def. Dan Jasinski in 

a bout. His long He is also particularly 
quarterfinals. 

arms allow him to adept at deflecting hits 
Def. Mark Iandolo in 

attack while main-from his opponents, 
semifinals. 

taining enough dis-which greatly decreases tance to block the amount of punish-swings from his ment he takes over the 
opponent. course of a bout. 













Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS page 5 
167 pounds 
Brian Salvi vs. Jake Joe 
PATH TO THE FINALS 
Salvi 

Def. Dallas Bunsa in preliminaries Def. William Hull in quarterfinals Def. Richard McAvoy in semifinals Law student Salvi is a 


"One Blow" Joe hails composed and patient Joe from New York and is fighter who does a good Def. Andrew Kwasnieski a sophomore in Sorin. job at pacing himself. The in preliminaries Joe differs from Salvi in punches that Salvi does Def. John Healy in quar-that he throws lots of throw consist of strong terfinals punches, keeping oppo­combinations that leave Def. David Cray in semi-nents on the defensive opponents reeling. finals and racking up points. 
182 pounds 

Mike Urciuoli vs. Tyler Plantz 

PATH TO THE FINALS 
Urciuoli 

Def. Erik VanEperen in preliminaries Def. Leo DiPiero in quarterfinals Def. William Paape in semifinals Urciuoli, an off-campus 
Plantz’ stocky body senior, has advanced to Plantz gives him great strength the finals with three Def. David Fosselman in and a low center of gravi­unanimous decision vic-preliminaries ty, but does not hinder tories using a versatile Def. Rich Neville in his speed. Plantz ducks arsenal. He mixes in left quarterfinals into his punches, working hooks, right hooks and Def. Tom Carnevale in his way into the oppo­uppercuts. semifinals nent’s body from below. 
192 pounds 
Mike Doran vs. Bill Straccia 
PATH TO THE FINALS 
Doran 
Def. David Diaz in pre­liminaries Def. Pat Griffin in quar­terfinals Def. Alex Macomber in semifinals Doran, an off-campus 


“The Italian Stallion” is a senior, has cruised into the Straccia senior whose impressive final round. The Bouts cap-Def. Joe Vanderberg in physique matches up per­tain uses his quickness and preliminaries fectly with his impressive agility to force many swings Def. Matt Stolze in quar-strength. He relies more on and misses from his oppo-terfinals power than technique, nents but is also able to Def. Tim Wallace in relying on big punches to block attempted punches. semifinals overwhelm his opponents. 

















page 6 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 4, 2011 
Severyn receives guidance from Bouts legend Lee 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Senior Nick Severyn will compete in his first Bengal Bouts championship fight this Friday night, but his Bengal Bouts story began before he even arrived at campus. 
Four years ago, the former high school athlete went look­ing for a way to stay active when a family friend first sug­gested that he take up boxing. 
“I went to high school with a guy named Mike Lee who fought here two years ago, and he was the first person that turned me on to it,” Severyn said. “Boxing seemed like the right avenue for me. Plus, all my friends basically did it, so it was pretty much natural freshman year.” 
But the road has not always been easy for Severyn — his first challenge was convincing his skeptical parents that box­ing was a good idea. 
“Mom hated it when I first told her, especially because I was doing rugby anyways,” Severyn said. “She raised this intelligent kid and she’s seeing his brain go to mush after playing these two vicious con­tact sports.” 
After much persuading on Severyn’s part, his parents 
fina lly r el e n t ed,  an d h av e  
rema in ed  som e  o f  his  
staunchest supporters.  

“I got Mike Lee to talk to 
them a lot, and they eventual­ly opened up to it,” Severyn said. “I think I might have had forged their signature on the first sign up, but other than that they’ve stayed behind me. They’re from Chicago, so they always come up to see all my fights. They’ve been really supportive throughout the entire process.” 
Although Severyn and Lee, who became a professional fighter last February, success­fully converted his parents into boxing supporters that season, Severyn’s triumph did not extend to the ring. Severyn, who competed in the 140-pound weight class, faced a 26-year-old MBA student in his first match, which he lost by split decision. 
His luck didn’t improve the next year, and he was forced to sit out his sophomore sea­son after undergoing thumb surgery to correct a rugby injury. 
Severyn won his first fight as a junior and earned a berth in the semifinal round before falling to Greg Bennett, the eventual champion of his weight class. 
While Severyn has never made it to a final match before, some of his friends have enjoyed major success in the ring — a fact that the sen­ior says motivated him during his senior campaign. 
“Both my friends Mike Doran and Bobby Powers make fun of me daily for not winning a championship here yet,” Severyn said. “They actually both have an extra year on me because I had thumb surgery sophomore year, but they constantly make fun of me for not being able to wear the champions jacket or the finalist jacket, so my friends ultimately motivate me.” 
Although friendly ribbing provides plenty of incentive to do well, Severyn is also self-motivated. 
“I have something to prove to myself, so I’m going to try and be the best fighter I can be, and hopefully win the championship this year,” Severyn said. 
Severyn also credits the box­ing community at O’Neill Hall with aiding his success. 
“Mike Doran, Bobby Powers, Kevin Crepeau — those are all O’Neill guys, so it’s really easy to stay motivated with people in your dorms coming in to make sure you’re going to practices,” Severyn said. 
The 170 -pound final will undoubtedly be the biggest fight of Severyn’s career, but the senior does not expect to be overwhelmed by the moment. 
“A lot of other people get hyped up and listen to pump-up music, but I try and stay as calm as possible,” Severyn said. “It’s hard with the adren­aline rushing through, but I’m usually pretty relaxed. I usual­ly start off the first round a lit­tle slow, partially because I’m relaxed, but that’s just how I’m used to doing everything. That’s how I play rugby, and that’s how I do boxing.” 
Severyn will face Greg Bennett — who eliminated him from competition last year 
— in the championship bout Friday. Severyn has already made sure that his friends can no longer tease him for lack­ing a finalist jacket; if he can reverse the outcome of last year’s semifinal bout, he will have a championship to go along with it. 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

Wallace finds new competitive thrill in boxing club 
By MEGAN GOLDEN Sports Writer  We had a lot of Nerf balls and stuff, and you could hide around the obstacles. We would just pick  high school that I didn’t really find until last year,” Wallace said. “Obviously those aren’t really  much of a difference it made. Wallace’s parents, who are That’s when I started seeing the Notre Dame alumni, have trav­second part of it, the real purpose eled from his home in Auburn,  
up balls and wing them at each  physical sports, but I learned to  behind why we box.” Ind., while his siblings have made  
Since he was a little kid, senior  other as hard as we could,”  be physical.”  Responding to the ups and the trip from Denver and  
captain Tim Wallace’s competi- Wallace said. “Just the basketball  Wallace was encouraged by a  downs of a fight Wa s h i n g t o n ,  
tive spirit and outstanding work  games in front of the house and  friend to begin boxing during the  requires confi-D.C. to see him  
ethic have driven him toward  pretty much everything was a  fall semester of his junior year in  dence, and fight. Although  
success.  competition for us.”  Australia.  Wallace said his family is  
Growing up with two older brothers and an older sister, Wallace was constantly compet- Wallace said that, upon coming to Notre Dame, boxing took the place of his high school sports, as  “What got me into it was I stud­ied abroad first semester last year. I studied abroad with  mental toughness very supportive “When I became ahas proved to be of his boxing an important captain I realized how career, Wallace  
ing with his siblings, even in sports that they had to create. “We created ‘Ball Tag.’ We  he played four years of basketball and tennis. “In high school I was always  [senior] Bobby [Powers], and he needed someone to work with, so he got me into it,” Wallace said.  part of his boxing much it really makes a said his mother career. has a hard time difference.” “You’ve got to watching him  
have a full-sized basement, a  really sports-related. That’s kind  Wallace said he and Powers  have confidence fight.  
basement perfect for any kids  of what boxing filled in. That  worked hard to stay in shape and  in yourself. Tim Wallace “She’s been to  
because it can just be destroyed.  competitive edge that I had in  conditioned intensely in prepara­tion for his first fight in Bengal  You’ve got to con-senior captain one fight, and tinually think you she wouldn’t  
Bouts.  can win,” watch. She said  
“In Australia, it was just me  Wallace said. she stares up at  
and him. It was mostly just him  “You’re going to the stands  
giving me mitts, and then when I  take hits, and you know it’s going because she doesn’t like watch- 
learned enough, I would return  to hurt, but you’ve got to under­ing,” Wallace said. “She continu­ 
the favor,” Wallace said. “Boxing  stand that after you take that hit ally sends articles to me about  
consists of three two-minute  you’ve got to do whatever you the brain damage boxing does,  
rounds, so six minutes total.  can to hurt them back.” and she’s convinced that I’m quit- 
Learning to condition yourself for  Before entering every fight, ting and that since I lost, my box- 
that six minutes takes a work  Wallace has a ritual of reading ing career’s done.”  
ethic, which I think I got from  the poem “The Stage,” which is After graduation Wallace will  
basketball.”  posted on the door of the practice move to Pittsburgh, where he will  
Wallace said he was originally  facility. He also makes sure to be working at Bettis Labs. He  
motivated by his competitive  visit the Grotto prior to every said he hopes to continue his box- 
nature, but once he was selected  bout he fights in. ing career despite his mother’s  
to be a captain, he discovered a  “It helps to calm me down. It entreaties.  
different source of inspiration  makes you feel like God’s on your “My first goal is just to find out  
behind boxing.  side,” he said. a gym and get in the circle, and  
“Purely boxing-wise, I got into  Throughout his boxing career, find out what kind of boxing  
it just because it’s a competitive  Wallace said he believed in the clubs they have there. Then it’s  
sport that I learned to love to do,”  superstition that he would win as just talking to people and maybe  
Wallace said. “The inspiration as  long as he did not cut his hair — scheduling an amateur fight,”  
far as fundraising and raising  and the one time he did, his fears Wallace said. “I definitely do  
money for Bangladesh kind of  were confirmed. want to continue it, if for nothing  
developed secondly. When I  “I never cut my hair, but I had else, definitely for the condition- 
became a captain I realized how  to cut my hair because I was ing because the conditioning is a  
much it really makes a difference  going into the place where I’m lot of fun and a great way to stay  
when the people come back after  going to work [after graduation],” in shape.”  
JAMES DOAN/The Observer  they travel for summer sessions  Wallace said. “It was before [the  
Captain and senior Tim Wallace wra ps up fellow senior Bernardo Garcia  over there for a couple of months,  semifinals], and I ended up los-Contact Megan Golden at  
during their 2010 fnal. Wallace was  eliminated in Tuesday’s semifnals.  seeing footage from that and how  ing, so maybe that was my deal.” mgolde01@saintmarys.edu  

Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS page 7 
Junior Ortenzio returns from London with renewed focus 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Junior captain Kevin Ortenzio joined Bengal Bouts in order to stay active and expand upon his love of wrestling, but over the past three years he has discov­ered that he is fighting for much more. 
The Siegfried resident from Camp Hill, Penn., and three-year veteran to the Bouts explained that he knew he wanted to be a part of the boxing experience at Notre Dame since he first stepped foot on campus. 
“I started freshman year, start­ing with the first practice of the novices which is during the fall,” Ortenzio said. “I came to the first practice because I always knew I wanted to be in the club. I had heard a lot about it and I was really interested.” 
As the first in his family to attend Notre Dame, Ortenzio’s decision to join Bengal Bouts had a lot to do with his experience in wrestling. 
“I have a history with high school wrestling and I also wres­tled for a good portion of my ele­mentary school and middle school life,” he said. “I just felt like if I didn’t play something my winters would seem a little empty.” 
Ortenzio’s opponent in the final last year, then senior Kieran Bulger, said of then-sophomore Ortenzio: “I had to take it slow. I figured that since he is such a workhorse in practice he would probably have good endurance.” 
A three-year veteran who is known as a hard worker among his peers, Ortenzio attributed much of his training mentality to his wrestling experience. 
“[Wrestling has helped] not only in terms of the matches but as far as training goes I really understand my body and what it takes for me to be in shape, so I do that and I prepare myself for every fight like it’s my last,” he said. 
Though he did not come out on top in last year’s final, Ortenzio said it was a highlight of his time in boxing and his most memo­rable fight to date. 
“It was a fantastic fight,” he said. “Kieran Bulger was a terrif­ic fighter and with him being a senior and me being a sopho­more he was definitely expected to win but I gave him a good run and it ended up being split deci­sion. With the overall experience and how I felt during that fight it didn’t matter one way or the other, win or lose. That was a fantastic fight that I will never forget.” 
After losing to a senior captain in the quarterfinals his freshman year and losing to senior Bulger in the finals last year, Ortenzio is working on his third solid run in the tournament. In this year’s final he will face another senior and previous champion in Ryan Slaney. Ortenzio said he was anticipating another great fight. 
“He’s done very well so far in this tournament so I’m really looking forward to it,” he said. 
For this Bengal Bouts season Ortenzio returned after a fall semester in London with his eye on another championship fight night. Despite not being on cam­pus fall semester, Ortenzio made sure he made time to train. 
“I had another individual who’s also in the finals, Greg Bennett, who was abroad with me,” Ortenzio said. “We found a gym in London and were able to go once or twice a week and throw some punches and get a feel for it. That was really helpful, but I think the time I gained the most ground was probably over winter break and especially after New Year’s. That’s when I really start­ed training.” 
Since then, Ortenzio said he has put in anywhere from 10-14 hours a week in the gym in preparation for this year’s tour­nament, but has realized that is no longer just passion for the sport that motivates him, but his family, the camaraderie in the club, and, most importantly, the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
“[My family] has been very supportive,” he said. “I’ve been so fortunate that even living in Pennsylvania they’ve been mak­ing all my fights.” 
With the support of his family and fellow boxers Ortenzio has become particularly dedicated to the true goal of Bengal Bouts — raising money for the Holy Cross Missions, and is even traveling to Bangladesh with ISSLP this sum­mer. 
“The reason why I came to Bengal Bouts and the reason I stick with it today are very differ­ent,” he said. “A lot of it used to be my wrestling background but I’ve really come to understand what this whole thing is about, not just the boxing but the Missions themselves. At this point, I’ve just kind of told myself that wrestling is a pastime; it’s not why I do this anymore. It’s also the camaraderie that you see here. We’re going out slug­ging it for six minutes and then afterwards we give each other a big hug — where else do you see that?” 

Ortenzio will bring his dedica­tion to the cause along with his boxing experience, strength and endurance to fight night Friday, as he takes on Ryan Slaney in the 148 lb. division championship. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 

Feduska moves forward after shoulder injury 
“It’s tough, especially since it to continue his active lifestyle Now relegated solely to train-Additionally, he says the 
By CORY BERNARD 

happened a week before the and the boxing club became a ing rather than participating, fundraising aspect has 
Sports Writer 

fights,” he said. “I’d been train-perfect way to stay in shape Feduska says he enjoys watch-improved. 
ing expecting to fight, but now while also spending time with ing younger members develop as “This year we also got in con-
As he has for the last three I’m fighting vicariously through Eric. boxers from their first day to tact with a lot of alumni and rounds, junior captain Collin other guys when I’m working “I wrestled in high school, their first fight, and sometimes sent out a bunch of donor cards Feduska will arrive at Friday’s with them.” which is about the closest expe-even beyond. explaining what was going on, Bengal Bouts finals in street Coming to Notre Dame in the rience I’d had,” he said. “It’s always interesting at first, which got us a lot more money,” clothes. Not by choice, however. fall of 2008, Feduska had plenty “Initially it was just something to seeing kids come in not knowing Feduska said. “We are selling 
The pre-med major with a of interest in joining Notre keep me active and to stay in what they’re doing,” he said. more stuff, too. Of course, all of minor in Science, Technology, Dame’s boxing club. His older good shape. Also my older “They usually pick it up very those funds go directly to and Values injured his shoulder brothers Michael, a 2004 gradu-brother was a senior when I quickly, though. We actually Bangladesh.” before the 81st annual tourna-ate, and Eric, a 2009 graduate, came in as a freshman and he have a lot of really talented Feduska also realizes the ulti­ment began. With a history of both boxed as undergraduates. was doing it so it was a cool freshmen this year. Many of mate goal of the boxing club and injuries to the same shoulder, Even his father participated in activity for us to do together.” them have made it through their the Bengal Bouts tournament. Feduska is no longer able to box. the club. Growing up with two From his early days in the gym first fight or even into the He says his job as a leader 
“I’ve had shoulder problems in older siblings subjected Feduska as an inexperienced freshman to finals.” involves making sure the new the past, and I’ve had a bunch of to a variety of physically taxing his current status as a junior As a more experienced mem-members understand this goal, dislocations, so there’s too much play-time activities. captain, Feduska has acquired a ber, he has also seen the club too. of a risk of serious injury,” he “We’d do American Gladiators, wealth of boxing knowledge. change its approach to training. “That’s something that comes said of his decision to put down where Michael and Eric would During his first year, the thought He says since his freshman year along later,” he said of realizing the gloves for good. “I had sur-whack me with pillows,” of eventually teaching the craft the preparations in the fall and the tournament’s objective. gery this past summer, but I dis-Feduska said. “We would also all to others didn’t cross his mind. spring leading up to the tourna-“With a lot of people, they come located it again during a spar-put on lacrosse gear and hit “That wasn’t something that ment have evolved for the better. in trying to prove themselves, ring session in the spring right each other with the sticks. It was had even entered into my mind,” “There have been a lot but the captains do a good job before fights.” a rough upbringing at times but Feduska said of the idea of being changes to practices since my ingraining in your mind that it’s 
Though he acknowledges the it was fun.” a captain. “The captains and freshman year,” Feduska said. about what you’re doing for difficulty in watching his peers During his time at Upper St. some of the coaches get together “We’ve moved from doing a lot other people.” carry on without him, Feduska Clair High School, just southwest and decide who has the skill and of push-ups and sit-ups and long continues to provide support and of Pittsburgh, Feduska played who has the dedication. My hard distance running to sprints and Contact Cory Bernard at advice whenever possible. soccer and wrestled. He wanted work paid off.” better fight simulation stuff.” cbernard@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 4, 2011 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer 

The Bengal Bouts semifinals Tuesday night consisted of drama, pain, elation and relief — all within 26 fights. The fights, in 13 weight divisions, were simply the prelude to Friday’s 

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer

finals, which begin at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 

For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 
MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 




JAMES DOAN/The Observer GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Graphic Illustration by DAN JACOBS and BLAIR CHEMIDLIN/The Observer 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 4, 2011 
COMMENTARY 

Talent to be tested at Big East tourney 
In every sport, there are three signs of a truly great team: Beating up on the ‘less­er’ opponents. Performing well against the top competi­tion. And third, the ability to overcome adversity. 
For this Irish squad, the jury is still out on whether this has been just another very good team assembled by coach Muffet McGraw, or whether this is a special club that rivals the 2001 squad, which won the pro­gram’s only national title. 
The Irish pass the first part of the litmus test with flying colors. No unranked team has defeated Notre Dame, and the closest such game was an eight-point win at South Florida on the hopes of the Irish, who were looking to pull off a major road victory and finish second in the conference. Senior forward Felicia Chester hit a clutch layup with six sec­onds to play to give the Blue Demons the victory. Once again, the Irish were robbed as their opponent snatched victory from the jaws of defeat. 

If Notre Dame is going to assert itself as a serious threat to Connecticut’s reign over the Big East, the Irish need to come up big in the final minutes of a close game. Until they come away with a signature victory, they cannot be considered among the top contenders for the national title. 
The final aspect of the three-part formula of a top team is overcoming adversity. Let’s face it – every team gets at least a dose of it during the course of a long regular sea­son. This year the Irish have 
had to deal 
with two in-
season 

For this Irish squad, the 
Feb. 5, one departures – 
that was jury is still out on junior for-never truly whether this has been ward Erica in doubt. Solomon 
just another very good 
Playing transferred well against team assembled by in December, the elite coach Muffet McGraw, or and highly-teams has touted fresh-
whether this is a special 
not been a man guard problem for club that rivals the 2001 Kayla 
the Irish. squad, which won the McBride The only stopped play 
program’s only national 
trouble they in January, have had in title. both for per-
this regard is finishing the job – winning the game’s cru­cial final minutes. 
Against ranked opponents, Notre Dame is 4-5 this season, but only one of those losses was lopsided — 78-57 at No. 2 Connecticut on Feb. 19. The other four were all deter­mined in the last few minutes. 
The most excruciating loss of the season came on Jan. 8, when the Huskies, whose NCAA-record 90-game win­ning streak had been snapped the week before, went ahead with 14 seconds remaining on a layup by sophomore guard Kelly Faris. The Irish had led for most of the game, and the prospect of knocking confer­ence rival Connecticut off their pedestal atop the Big East would have been a sea­son-changing victory for the Irish. Instead, they were left playing the “what if” game and had the challenge of bouncing back in conference play, which they did. 
The only other Big East loss of the season came last Monday, when DePaul sunk sonal rea­
sons. The two were important bench players, combining for 15 points per game. 
Additionally, the team has had to deal with the previous­ly mentioned excruciating losses. The team has respond­ed after the close losses and quickly put the defeats behind them. 
The Big East tournament will be the most telling of indicators as to whether the two losses to Connecticut and the one-point loss to DePaul were signs that Notre Dame is very close to being a top team and just needs to get over the hump, or that the Irish are not in the top tier of the nation’s top talent. 
For McGraw and her squad, the next two weeks will deter­mine the legacy of this talent­ed group. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

Irish compete for title in Hartford 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame travels to the Mecca of women’s basketball this weekend to take on the best the conference has to offer in the Big East championships. 
While the XL Center in Hartford, Conn., may be the most attractive site for the con­ference tournament given the passion of its local basketball fans, a potential matchup against the Connecticut Huskies in the title game puts the Irish at a disadvantage, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
“It’s not a neutral site,” McGraw said. “It’s a great site. For the conference, we draw better than anybody in the country. We get really good crowds. The Connecticut fans come out for all the games, not just the UConn game. It’s hard to leave there because they really do a good job.” 
The conference champion has been crowned in the XL Center since March of 2004, a testament to the electrifying atmosphere and financial secu­rity provided by the venue. 
“We’ve looked at a couple of alternate sites, McGraw said, “but when you look at the financial side of it, it’s really difficult to find a place where we’re going to be as success­ful.” 
Benefitting from two days of additional rest after securing a second-round bye heading into the tournament, the Irish lack the luxury of preparing for a specific team. However, No. 3 seed Notre Dame (24-6, 13-3 Big East) knows it will face the winner of a matchup between Louisville (19-11, 10-6), the No. 6 seed, and the winner of an opening round match between No. 11 seed Providence (13-15, 6-10) and No. 14 seed Villanova (11-18, 3-13). 
Notre Dame handily took down each of its potential opponents during the regular season, including a 79-43 drubbing of Providence and a 58-43 win over Villanova. While the Irish took down the Cardinals 80-60 during the regular season at home, a rematch between the two teams will be far from the com­forts of Purcell Pavilion. 
“It’s going to be a lot differ­ent,” McGraw said. “[The Cardinals] are a much better team than they were when they played here. In fact, they played poorly here. A lot of that was our defense. They really didn’t play well, and we did a nice job defensively on some of their better players.” 
Since their loss to the Irish, the Cardinals rebounded to fin­ish the regular season tied for fifth in the conference. 
“They’re fighting for a shot at the NCAA tournament,” McGraw said. “I think they have a great shot at the tour­nament, but I think for them, they want to keep winning to promote the résumé a little bit more, so it’s a huge game for them. For us, it’s a question of seeding. We need to play well coming off a loss.” 
With a bitter taste in their mouths following a gut-wrenching 70-69 loss to No. 2 seed DePaul (26-5, 13-3) on Monday, the Irish eagerly await their next chance to get back on the court and regain momentum before heading into the national tournament. While last year’s squad was eliminat­ed in the round of 16, senior forward Becca Bruszewski said this year’s team has the poten­tial to finish its season in Indianapolis, Ind., the site of the Final Four. 
“I definitely think last year we fell short of our goal,” Bruszewski said. “This year, definitely I want us to bring the same intensity. I want to get us to the finals of the Big East tournament. I want us to go for the title and definitely [the] Final Four. With this team, it’s possible. We’re young, but we’ve taken a lot of small learning bumps across the course of the season.” 
McGraw credits her players’ ability to compete on both sides of the ball for Notre Dame’s success this season. Despite facing No. 1 seed Connecticut (29-1, 16-0) twice during the regular season, a favorable schedule has positioned the Irish well for the postseason. 
“We had a really good sched­ule,” McGraw said. “We played a lot of the teams right behind us at home. We played the teams ahead of us on the road. It was kind of an interesting schedule for us. We got the opportunity to really see what it’s going to be in a hostile envi­ronment, and now we can take that to Hartford with us.” 
Notre Dame hits the court Sunday at 8 p.m. for a chance to play in the semifinals Monday at 8 p.m. The champi­onship game takes place Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Big East Bellwether 
Indiana native Becca Bruszewski captains Irish through the postseason in her final season 
mates. every aspect of it – the fans in 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
“I never want to lose in any the stands, the coaching staff, 
Sports Writer 
possession, any drill. I never just running out of the tunnel, want to know that someone’s just having everyone cheering 

Becca Bruszewski came to better than me. People talk for me.” Notre Dame four years ago about, ‘Oh, this girl has a lot Just like it did in high because it offered her the of hype,’ and I don’t. That school and allowing perfect package. But she really makes me come a little Bruszewski to easily attend never expected that she’d harder to the game because I home games, Valparaiso’s graduate as one of the top want to prove people wrong,” vicinity to Notre Dame has competitors Irish basketball she said. given college more of a home-has ever seen. So she does. Standing tall at town feel for her and a 
In fact, she refuses to 6-foot-1, Bruszewski likes to chance to excel academical-believe it, although Irish make sure her opponents ly— the perfect package. coach Muffet McGraw does. know she means business in “It was obviously the perfect 
“She is the most amazing the post with an average 5.1 package — the academics, the competitor I think I have ever rebounds per game, and on tradition here, the fans, the coached,” McGraw said after offense with an average of 9.2 basketball. Just definitely a Bruszewski’s final game in points in the typical 25 min-place that’s close to home. A the Purcell Pavilion on Feb. utes she spends on the court. lot of family members come to 
26. Playing for Notre Dame is games – just a perfect 
Still, the senior forward not the first time that choice,” she said. refuses to take on that title, Bruszewski has earned notice Being a student at Notre saying all she on the court, Dame has not only allowed does is come however. A this marketing student to find to practice Valparaiso, her passion in the classroom 
“We’re really going to 
ready to go. Ind., native, but to also grow as a player, 
“I don’t miss her next year – she had been and as a person. know if I’ m her physical play, her playing on “I would definitely say it’s the most AAU teams made me a lot more mature – 
mental toughness, her 
amazing, but since grade it’s made me look at things I definitely relentless attitude.” school but from a leadership standpoint come ready to brought her and just what I do affects go every day,” talents to other things and people,” she 
Muffet McGraw 
she said. South Bend said. 
Irish coach
And this is during high Bruszewski’s leadership coming from school to gain skills were what led McGraw a girl who more expo -to nominate her as a team hated practice until last sum-sure. Her experience aided in captain for the second mer, when McGraw her high school play as well straight year, encouraging approached her about being a as got her noticed. and guiding her along the co-captain. “I started playing AAU more way. 
“She kind of just talked to in third grade, played it in “She’s grown so much as a me about the summer and middle school and then in leader this year. She’s done a how I needed to come every high school. And then I start-really good job of setting the day ready to go,” Bruszewski ed playing AAU here in South tone for the team, getting said. “I used to hate practice Bend to get more exposure. them ready for the games,” 
— I couldn’t stand it. But now Basketball in high school, I McGraw said. I see it more, from a coaching was a one through five,” she But Bruszewski had to earn perspective, how necessary it said. “I was the only girl that the title for herself and, with is and how necessary it is for played AAU, so whatever we her coach’s guidance, proved the team to be ready to go out needed to do, I kind of did.” it to her teammates through how I work hard and that I every day,” Bruszewski said. and play and be prepared for Bruszewski also started to her hard work and dedica-would be a good example for But she isn’t trying to be the next game.” attend more Notre Dame tion. them and the incoming fresh-conceited, because she knows 
Bruszewski has made sure games in high school, falling “[McGraw] just talked to me men,” Bruszewski said. she can learn from her team-that not only herself but also in love with the atmosphere about what I need to look for, As a captain, Bruszewski mates, too. In fact, her teammates are prepared even more as a member of the or how I need to help people has taken a few of her team-Bruszewski said Achonwa has for each opponent they face. Irish squad. out, especially with the new mates, particularly her fellow helped her to learn a key From setting the tone in the “My whole senior year of people coming in later posts, under her wing. Even if component for success this locker room and at practice to high school, I used to come to because we didn’t have our that post is her classmate, season — patience. stepping up, both physically every home game. I’ve been freshman here this summer. senior forward Devereaux “Before this year, I wasn’t and vocally, in games, in the JACC for every game The team voted on it — I was Peters. very vocal but I would just get Bruszewski shares her “will for five, six years. So it was really honored by that “I think the only difference frustrated really easily. Now, to win” daily with her team-definitely something I took in, because my teammates see between me and [Peters] is I’m using my words to help 
I’ve had that experience that people out and let them know she didn ’t have those two where they need to be, trying years sitting out. She was to take things from their per-able to watch from the bench spective and how they’re and know and see what we learning about the game,” need and where she would fit Bruszewski said. in,” Bruszewski said. That patience is something 
“Post-wise, she doesn’t real-that Bruszewski feels will be ly like to bang a lot in the essential in her future plans post, so I’ll put her in posi-of playing overseas. Her pres­tions where she’ll make the ence on the Irish team, pass or she can catch it on though, will be greatly the drive.” missed. 
While Bruszewski does help “She’s really had a great Peters in setting up the plays, career, really exceeded our it’s not a one-sided effort with expectations. We’re really the two starters. going to miss her next year – 
“We know how each other her physical play, her mental plays, and we know how to toughness, her relentless atti­read each other. We help each tude. She works so hard every other get into the best situa-day at practice. She has really tion to succeed,” Bruszewski made her mark on the pro-said. gram,” McGraw said. 
Another teammate Bruszewski knows that leav-Bruszewski has singled out is ing Notre Dame will be hard, freshman forward Natalie but she won’t miss 6 a.m. Achonwa, who has been a morning practice in the sum-crucial Irish force coming off mer. the bench this season. “It [Notre Dame overall] has 
“I’ve taught Natalie to come been an experience that I was ready to go every single day. not prepared for, but I Right now, the season is long learned a lot about myself and it’s tough, and it’s physi-and other people on the way. cal. Her watching how I play It’s made me a better person.” and how I am — it can be done, it is necessary and it’s Contact Meaghan Veselik at something the team needs mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 4, 2011 
No. 16 SETON HALL Pirates 
Record: (8-21, 1-15 Big East) 
Regular season: The Pirates struggled from the opening gate, dropping its first 10 con­ference games before picking up its lone win of the season against Cincinnati. Seton Hall finished conference play with the worst field goal percentage and the fewest assists. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 89, Pirates 38 (at Notre Dame) 
How far they go: First round exit against No. 9 seed Syracuse. 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins evades a defender during Notre Dame’s 89-38 win over Seton Hall on Feb. 8. 

No. 9 SYRACUSE Orange 
Record: (21-8, 9-7 Big East) 
Regular season: The Orange scrapped their way to finish the conference season one game above .500, but failed to make an impact despite a manageable schedule. Syracuse did have the best rebounding aver­age at 41 rebounds per game. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 71, Orange 48 (at Notre Dame) 
How far they go: Second round exit against No. 8 Georgetown. 
No. 15 CINCINNATI Bearcats 
Record: (9-19, 2-14 Big East) 
Regular season: Plagued by injuries, the Bearcats never found their rhythm this sea­son, losing 13 straight conference games at 
one point before salvaging a win against Marquette to salvage their season. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 66, Bearcats 48 (at Notre Dame) 
How far they go: First round exit against No. 10 seed West Virginia. 
No. 10 WEST VIRGINIA Mountaineers 
Record: (22-8, 8-8 Big East) 
Regular season: Although the Mountaineers finished the regular season 14 games over .500, they failed to play up to their potential. However, the Mountaineers feature a premiere scorer in Liz Repella, who averages 15 points per game. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 72, Mountaineers 60 (at West Virginia) 
How far they go: Second round exit against No. 7 St. John’s. 
Predicting N 
When we first set out to make this Insider, I thought about assigning each team (fairly random) odds of winning. After all, I logicked, Notre Dame must have a better chance of winning than does, say, Seton Hall. 
But I realized that’s not true at all. Only one team has a chance of winning this thing, and it’s the same team that’s won for the past three years. I predict Notre Dame will make the final game, but will fall to Connecticut just as badly as it did two weeks ago. 
Making the finals, though, will help in NCAA seeding. Notre Dame moved up a ranking in the AP poll both times it lost to Connecticut. A strong showing here should guarantee a three-seed, and maybe even bump the Irish up to a two-seed in the national tournament. 
Prediction: Connecticut over Notre Dame, championship game 

Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
No. 12 PITTSBURGH Panthers 

Record: (13-16, 5-11 Big East) 
Regular season: By Pittsburgh standards, the Panthers had a subpar season. 5 conference wins won’t be good enough to make the NCAA tournament and it won’t be good enough to make an impact in the conference tourna ­ment. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 82, Panthers 50 (at Pittsburgh) 
How far they go: Upset in the first round by No. 13 South Florida 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Senior forward Devereaux Peters prepares to shoot during Notre Dame’s 71-48 win over Syracuse on Feb. 1. 
No. 11 PROVIDENCE Friars 
Record: (13-15, 6-10 Big East) 
Regular season: The Friars had shortcomings on both ends of the floor, but had particular difficulties putting points on the board. Providence featured the third-worst scoring 
offense in the conference at a paltry 50.8 points per game. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 79, Friars 43 (at Providence) 
How far they go: Second round exit against No. 6 Louisville. 
No. 14 VILLANOVA Wildcats 
Record: (11-18, 3-13 Big East) 
Regular season: The Wildcats finished near the bottom of the pack for the second con­secutive season. A young team with poten­tial, Villanova could be a surprise contender in the future. But after losing eight straight conference games this year, the Wildcats took themselves out of contention. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 58, Wildcats 43 (at Villanova) 
How far they go: First round exit against No. 11 Providence
 ND’s Tourney 
While the Irish have come close to knocking off some top teams, I just don't see them beating UConn in a defacto Huskies home game. Notre Dame will get their revenge in the semifinal against DePaul, but will lose in the championship game to UConn. 
Prediction: Connecticut over Notre Dame, championship game 

No. 13 SOUTH FLORIDA Bulls 
Record: (12-18, 3-13 Big East) 
Regular season: Despite finishing the regular season with a sub-.500 record, the Bulls fea­ture one of the league’s most prolific scorers in Andrea Smith, who averages 17.6 points per game. They could be a sleeper. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 76, Bulls 68 (at South Florida) 
How far they go: First round upset over No. 12 Pittsburgh, but exit in the second round to No. 5 Marquette. 


page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 4, 2011 
No. 8 GEORGETOWN Bulldogs 
Record: (21-9, 9-7 Big East) 
Regular season: The Bulldogs had a chance to crack into the top four, but remained con­tent at the middle of the pack. However, they feature the conference ’s best scorer after Connecticut ’s Maya Moore in sopho ­more Sugar Rodgers, who averages 18 points per game. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 80, Georgetown 58 (at Notre Dame) 
How far they go: Second round exit against No. 1 Connecticut 

SARAH O’CONNOR /The Observer Senior guard Brittany Mallory goes up for the score during Notre Dame’s 69­36 victory over St. John’s on Jan. 23. 

No. 1 CONNECTICUT Huskies 
Record: (29-1, 16-0 Big East) 
How they did during the regular season: Besides a loss to Stanford to snap a 90 ­game winning streak, Connecticut dominat­ed the opposition per usual. Geno Auriemma. Maya Moore. Clear favorite to win it all again. 
How they did against Notre Dame: Huskies 79, Irish 76 (at Notre Dame); Huskies 78, Irish 57 at Connecticut 
How far they go: Win the Big East champi­onships. 
No. 7 ST. JOHN’S Red Storm 
Record: (20-9, 9-7 Big East) 
How they did during the regular season: The Red Storm are led by head coach Kim Barnes Arico, one of the best in the conference. Although St. John ’s started off slowly, the team won six of its last nine games. 
How they did against Notre Dame: Irish 69, Red Storm 36 (at Notre Dame) 
How far they go: Second round exit against No. 2 DePaul 
No. 2 DePAUL Blue Demons 

Record: (26-5, 13-3 Big East) 
How they did during the regular season: An unselfish basketball team, the Blue Demons pass the ball and find the open shooter. Led by top-notch coach Doug Bruno, DePaul vaulted to the top of the Big East this season, taking the No. 2 seed from the Irish in the last day of the regular season. 
How they did against Notre Dame: Blue Demons 70, Irish 69 (at DePaul) 
How far they go: Upset in the semifinals by No. 3 Notre Dame. 

minutes from home was the highlight of my winter break. Not only did the Huskies see their 90-game win streak snapped, but it was the first time they actually looked bad playing basketball. At least I saw it once, because I won’t be seeing it again for another 90 games. Maya Moore refuses to lose, the Huskies have lost only one game in 30 appearances at the XL Center and Geno Auriemma knows how to get Notre Dame in foul trouble. 
The Irish avenge their one-point loss to DePaul in the semifinals of the conference championships. Blue Demons coach Doug Bruno has Chris Masoud been one of the best in the game during his tenure at DePaul, but McGraw and her squad should be playing with a chip on their shoul-
Sports Writer der. A really mean chip. 
Prediction: Connecticut over Notre Dame, championship game 
Friday, March 4, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
No. 5 MARQUETTE Golden Eagles 

Record: (22-7, 10-6 Big East) 
Regular season: Marquette has emerged as a perennial contender for a top seed in the Big East championships. The Golden Eagles fea­ture a dynamic scorer in Angel Robinson, who averages five assists per game. Favorable seeding gives them a shot to make it to the semifinals. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 73, Golden Eagles 55 (at Marquette) 
How far they go: Third round upset over No. 4 Rutgers, but exit in the semifinals against No. 1 Connecticut. 
KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer Junior forward Natalie Novosel fights off a defender during Notre Dame’s 70-69 loss to DePaul on Feb. 28. 
No. 6 LOUISVILLE Cardinals 
Record: (19-11, 10-6 Big East) 
Regular season: The Cardinals faltered during the middle stretch of the season, but finished strong bywinning five of its last seven games. Louisville also has the fourth-highest scoring 
offense in the conference, as it averages 
64.5 points per game. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 80, Cardinals 60 (at Notre Dame) 
How far they go: Second round exit against No. 3 Notre Dame 
No. 3 NOTRE DAME Fighting Irish 
Record: (24-6, 13-3 Big East) 
Regular season: The Irish turned in another solid season under Irish coach Muffet McGraw. The development of senior Devereaux Peters into a force uunder the bas­ket and the emergence of freshman forward Natalie Achonwa give the Irish much-needed size heading into the conference tournament. 
How far they go: Fall in the title match to No. 1 Connecticut. 

Meaghan Veselik 
Sports Writer 


No. 4 RUTGERS Scarlet Knights 
Record: (18-11, 11-5 Big East) 
Regular season: Rutgers surpassed expecta­tions, earning a double-bye in the Big East championships and most likely a berth in the NCAA tournament. The Scarlet Knights have been successful because of their defense, as they only allow 53 points per game. 
Against Notre Dame: Irish 71, Scarlet Knights 49 (at Notre Dame) 
How far they go: Upset in the third round by No. 5 Marquette. 
page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 4, 2010 
Mooretowritefinal chapter of legacy 
After the latest of these By LAURA MYERS matches, a game then-No. 2 
Sports Writer 
Connecticut won 78 -57 on 
Feb. 19, a reporter asked 

In the past 15 weeks, Maya Irish coach Muffet McGraw if Moore has been named Big Moore is the best player she East player of the week a had ever seen. record eight times. “Oh yes,” McGraw respond-
In the past year, she has ed. “Easily the best player in earned the Wade Trophy for the country.” player of the year, shared the Moore leads the conference Honda -Broderick cup that in scoring with 23.4 points honors the best female col-per game and is fifth in lege athlete, won an ESPY for rebounding with 7.8 points best female college athlete, per game. In her 146 career was named a consensus All-games, she has failed to American and an Academic score in double figures four All-American, and played on times. There is not a 2011 Team USA in the 2010 FIBA statistical category in which World Championships. she is not among the top 15 
In the past four years, in the Big East. Moore’s awards and records On Feb. 19, McGraw said are too numerous to list. But Moore played “like a her career can be summed human,” with a stat line of up like this: 143 wins in 146 12 points, seven rebounds total games, including three and seven assists. Big East championships and In seven games against two national titles. The most Notre Dame in her career, prolific offensive player in Moore has averaged nearly Connecticut women’s basket-18 points per game. As a ball history. freshman making her first 
And more than any other trip to Notre Dame on Jan. Big East team, Notre Dame 27, 2008, Moore scored has been there to witness it Connecticut’s first 15 points happen. in an eventual 81-64 victory. 
If the Irish and Huskies As a senior, in her third and both play their way into the final appearance at the finals of the Big East tourna-Purcell Pavilion, Moore ment this week, it will mark scored 31 in Notre Dame’s the eighth time that the two 79-76 loss on Jan 8. teams have played each Monday was Moore’s senior other since Moore began her night, and before No. 1 career. Connecticut clinched its reg-ular-season Big East title with an 82 -47 win over Syracuse, her jersey joined those of Connecticut greats Diana Taurasi, Sue Bird, Rebecca Lobo and Tina Charles in Connecticut’s Ring of Honor. 

It isn’t her last time playing in Connecticut, though. The Big East tournament is held in Hartford, and the Huskies will most likely play at their 
own arena, the Gample Pavilion in Storrs, for the first two rounds of the NCAA tournament. 
When the Big East moved to a 16 -game conference schedule two years ago, the math worked out so that each team would have to face one other team twice. For the sake of competition and tele­vision ratings, among other factors, the Irish and Huskies were put together for two games a year. 
For that reason, Notre Dame faced the Huskies three times in 2010, includ­ing a loss in the Big East semifinals. This year, the two could meet in the finals for their third game of the year. 
After Monday ’s game, Syracuse coach Quentin Hillsman predicted what would happen in Moore ’s fourth Big East tournament. 
“During tournament play I think it comes down to who has the best player, and [Huskies coach] Geno [Auriemma] has the best player,” he said. “When you get in to these tournament games there are going to be some close games and nobody is going to be able to stop Maya.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


DAN JACOBS and LAURA MYERS | Observer Graphic 





