
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Local businesses offer discounts 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Students hesitant to set foot outside Flex Point terri­tory can venture off campus without breaking the bank thanks to the Students for South Bend (SFSB) discount program. 
The program, which has expanded to include over 60 local restaurants, museums and other vendors, offers stu­dents with valid Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s or Holy Cross IDs a variety of everyday dis­counts and daily specials. 
Emily LeStrange, the for­mer Off-Campus Concerns chair responsible for the program’s founding, said the program is meant to increase both student patronage at lo­cal businesses and campus engagement with the com­munity at large. 
“I’ve always thought the program was a great way for students to break out of the comfort zone Eddy Street Commons has,” LeStrange said. “If you create a way for students to continually shop downtown or to frequent the small businesses they didn’t know existed before, I think you create a positive rela­tionship with your commu­nity.” 

When the program began last year, LeStrange said a number of local businesses 

Campus fire department keeps students safe 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

Captain Robert “RD” Brown attends to daily activities at the 
Notre Dame Firehouse. 


By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
In 1879, a devastating fire destroyed Notre Dame’s Main Building, alerting the adminis­tration to the need for greater fire safety measures. More than a century later, the University maintains constant vigilance through the Notre Dame Fire Department (NDFD). 
NDFD handles all of the Uni­versity’s fire safety-related needs, and its responsibilities are broader than most munici­pal fire departments, Interim 


see FIRE/page 5 
were eager to participate. 
“Businesses from the be­ginning have been interested in participating, especially small businesses in the South Bend city area,” she said. “We were able to grab the at­tention of a lot of places stu­dents frequent, like Between the Buns, Studebagels, Leg­ends, Le Peep and even the South Bend Silverhawks.” 

Katy Zemlock, this year’s Off-Campus Concerns chair, said SFSB is still seeking more local vendors. 
“We are working with Kite Realty, the Eddy Street Com­mons developer, to discuss a blanket discount at the busi­

see DISCOUNT/page 5 
By MARIELLE HAMPE 
News Writer 

Poverty in the United States rose to 15.1 percent in 2010, with 46.2 million Americans reportedly below the poverty line, according to a report released by the Census Bu­reau Tuesday. 
While politicians debate a number of quick fixes to the apparent crisis, Notre Dame economics professor Jim Sul­livan said some of the hype may be in the way the statis­tics are calculated. 
“Poverty estimates are based on cash income like earnings and welfare pay­ments. The poverty estimates exclude government pro­grams such as food stamps, housing subsidies and the Earned Income Tax Credit, a 50 billion dollar program that is much larger than wel­fare,” he said. 
The Census Bureau deter­mines poverty by comparing a household’s total income to a threshold level that var­ies by family size and age composition. If a household’s total income falls below the threshold, every member in the family is considered to be in poverty. 
“Official poverty estimates are the single most important indicator for the well being of the people at the bottom of 

Kellogg to host abroad open house 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Students who are interested in service or research abroad but are overwhelmed by the application process can get a head start at Wednesday’s International Open House, where representatives from more than 20 University of­fices involved with study, ser­vice and research abroad will showcase a variety of avail­able programs. 
Holly Rivers, director of the Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies, said the 450 students registered for the event will receive information on opportunities available in Africa, Latin America, Asia, 

see ABROAD/page 5 



Poverty rate increases in 2010 

the economic distribution,” he said. “It allows us to an­swer the question, ‘Have we made progress over time?’” 
The Census Bureau report, “Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage: 2010,” stated that the number of Americans below the poverty line increased from 43.6 mil­lion during 2009. 
Sullivan said the selected indicators can obscure the positive impact of some gov­ernment programs. 
LAURA LAWS | Observer Graphic 
“By ignoring the effects of government funded pro­grams, the official poverty estimates suggest that the government is losing the war on poverty, but this is not the case,” Sullivan said. 
While Sullivan acknowl­edges the worsening of many Americans’ financials, his research shows that long­term progress has been made against poverty. He suggests 
see POVERTY/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER McCormick discusses social concerns page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Fashion by Felicia page 10 u Football team excited for Michigan State page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE LAST SONG YOU HEARD? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports John Cameron Andrew Gastelum Mel Flanagan Matthew Jillian Barwick DeFranks Graphics Joe Wirth Laura Laws Scene Photo Maija Gustin Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Bauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 70 LOW 50 


Austin Reed  Changhwa Sul  Kobena Ampqu  Ricardo  Yiwei Shen  
DuarteBodewig  
freshman  freshman  senior  sophomore  freshman  
Fisher  Dillon  off-campus  Knott  Lewis  
“I Will Not Bow  “Hello — Oasis.”  “Sweat (feat.  “Every Teardrop  “We Will Never  
— Breaking  Snoop Dogg) —  is a Waterfall —  Grow Old —  
Benjamin.”  David Guetta.”  Coldplay.”  Lenka.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Woman bites elderly man in “vampire” attack 
ST. PETERSBURG, Florida 
— A Florida woman who al­legedly claimed to be a vam­pire has been charged with battery after violently biting a man in a wheelchair on his face and arms, police said on Friday. 
Milton Ellis, 69, told police in St. Petersburg, Florida, that he and Josephine Smith, 22, met on the street and went to the porch of a vacant restaurant to get out of the rain. He said he fell asleep in his motorized wheelchair and woke up to find Smith on top of him. 
Ellis told authorities that she said, “I’m a vampire. I am going to eat you” and then be­gan to bite him. 

According to a police affi­davit, Ellis was bitten on his arm and lips, leaving him bloody before he was able to escape and call police. 
After arriving at the scene, police said they found Smith bloody and half-naked near­by, but that she had no mem­ory of what happened and did not identify herself as a vam­pire. 
Smith, who was arrested early on Thursday, is cur­rently being held in detention with bail set at $50,000. 
Baby suckles directly from cow for milk 
CAMBODIA — An 18-month-old Cambodian boy who has suckled milk direct­ly from a cow daily for more than a month is in fine health, the child’s grandfather said. 
The boy, Tha Sophat, made international headlines after his grandfather revealed he had been feeding himself di­rectly from a cow since July when a storm destroyed his home. 
The boy watched a calf nurse from its mother, and began to do the same thing, feeding directly from the cow each day. When the grandfa­ther pulled him away, the boy cried, so he let him continue. 
Since Saturday, he has lim­ited the suckling to once a day. 
“His health is fine, he is strong and he doesn’t have di­arrhea,” said Um Oeung. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Today from 4 to 5 p.m. the Eck Institute for Global Health will hold the George 
B. Craig, Jr. Memorial Lec­ture: “Malaria, Mosquitoes, and Public Health in the Land of Wallace and Sukar­no at 238 Galvin Life Sci­ence Center, presented by former post-doctoral fellow and current project officer for UNICEF/Indonesia, Wil­liam Hawley. 
Tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. the Notre Dame Energy Cen­ter will hold a lecture titled “Nuclear Energy: Past Mis­takes, Current Challenges, Future Prospects,” fea­turing Peter Burns, Henry Massman Chair in Civil En­gineering, at Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall Room 123. 
This evening at 7 p.m., there will be five discus­sions across campus for those wanting to speak about the impact of 9/11. The West Quad dorms will meet in Duncan’s main lounge with Professors Scott Ap­pleby  and Patrick Gafney. The South Quad dorms will meet in Badin’s Large So­cial Space, led by Profes­sor George Lopez. The God Quad dorms will have the discussion in Walsh’s “Solo” south basement lounge, led by Professor Larissa Fast. The North Quad dorms will meet in Cavanaugh’s base­ment led by Professor Brian McLaughlin. The Mod Quad dorms will meet in PE’s 24­hour space led by Professor Mark Beudert. There will be pizza served at all locations. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to  obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY GAMEDAY SUNDAY 










HIGH 60 LOW 37 
HIGH 65 LOW 44 

HIGH 70 LOW 50 
HIGH 77 LOW 57 



COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
McCormick discusses social concerns with Council 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Continuing with the Coun­cil of Representatives’ recent focus on inclusivity at Notre Dame, student body president Pat McCormick offered mem­bers a preview of upcoming events and projects relating to social concerns. 
Following Monday’s talk by Sr. Helen Prejean on the immo­rality of the death penalty, Mc­Cormick said a pending execu­tion presented the opportunity for interested students to get more involved with the issue. 
“There’s someone who has been sentenced to death right now, and it could be carried out in a few weeks,” he said. “So for those interested in some advocacy, there may be some going on at Notre Dame.” 
McCormick said a tentative upcoming campus visit by a high-profile name in the im­migration debate could also relate to the issue of inclusion at the University. 
“This upcoming October there’s an historic opportunity for Notre Dame with Cardinal Mahony, the former Archbish­op of Los Angeles,” McCormick said. “He’s interested in com­ing to Notre Dame to discuss the issue of human dignity at the center of immigration re­form.” 
McCormick said Notre Dame’s history as an edu­cational institution for the children of Irish immigrants makes it an ideal place for such debate. 
“Notre Dame is the perfect place to start this conversa­tion since it was a place Irish immigrants could come to be­come part of the U.S. society,” he said. “For Mexican immi­grants, but really just immi­grants in general, it’s about expanding inclusion.” 



McCormick emphasized the move] toward the dignity at a student union on human dig-need for campus debate to fo-the center of the issue for those nity I think there’s a chance to cus on the ethical rather the involved not only immigrants do some really cool work.” political aspect of the issue. but also law enforcement,” he 
“We’re doing our best to said. “This could be a contro-Contact John Cameron at steer clear of politics, [and versial issue, but if we focus as jcamero2@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group chooses projects for year 

By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) focused on choosing initiatives for the year at its second meeting Tues­day. 
Members primarily discussed revamping the Student Center and Dalloway’s Coffeehouse, particularly changing furniture to make the space more welcom­ing. 
Amanda Lester, public rela­tions commissioner, said the current environment in the Stu­dent Center is not optimized for student use.
 “We should make the Stu-make efforts to increase student awareness and use of the center. 
We should “make it more [ac­tively used] and engaging,” she said. 
SGA also discussed the loca­tion of the Saint Mary’s Grotto. The Grotto is currently located 
dent Center more student-friendly,” she said. “We need to make it so that it’s true to its name.” 
Karen Johnson, vice president for student affairs, said replacing the furniture would go a long way in making the space more suitable for students to study and socialize. 
“Adding new 

“The first step of course would be providing information to students to see if they are interested in making this new Grotto.” 
Emily Skirtich chief of staff SGA 
behind the Con­gregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross building. 
Chief of staff Emily Skirtich said the location is inconvenient and possibly dan­gerous. 
“It’s very dan­gerous to go back there due to the river changing paths, and some of the Grotto has been eroded,” 


furniture to the student lounge would be beneficial and more comfortable for students,” she said. 
Members said the Women’s Resource Center in the Student Center was one area that was in particular need of renovation. They said the space could be bet­ter publicized to students and would also benefit from redeco­rating. 
Student Services commission­er Laura Glaub said SGA should Skirtich said. 
Skirtich said gauging student interest in moving the Grotto to a more central location would be important in deciding whether to go forward with it. 
“The first step of course would be providing information to stu­dents to see if they are interested in making this new Grotto,” she said. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01saintmarys.edu 




ticipate if they were more in-
Discount 

formed about the businesses 
involved. continued from page 1 “I feel some students still 
don’t know about the pro­nesses there, and will contin-gram and the benefit it ue to reach out to businesses brings to them as shoppers. if students express interest I’d love to see some more in certain establishments,” on-campus events [publiciz­she said. ing the program],” she said. 
Zemlock said most busi-“Working more with our nesses were made aware of SFSB liaisons at Saint Mary’s the program at its inception, and Holy Cross College is a so business participation is huge part of the growth and likely to remain at its cur-expansion of the program rent level. we’d like to see.” 
Student participation, Zemlock hopes the distri­however, is lacking. Zemlock bution of a mobile app will attributes this to limited stu-help keep students mindful 
dent  aware- of  where  
ness  rather  they  could  
than a lack of popular busi nesses  “I feel some students still don’t know about the  be using the pro­gram’s dis- 
i n v o l v e d in the pro­gram. “In speak­ing with my friends and  program and the benefit it brings to them as shoppers. I’d love to see more on-campus events [publicizing the program].”  counts. “One way we hope to [raise awareness] is through  
people in my classes,  Emily LeStrange  the devel­opment of  
awa r enes s  former off-campus concerns chair  an  app,  
of the pro- which  is  
gram  ap­ c u r re n t ly  
pears  to  be  in  the  SAO  

very low,” she said. “In my approval process,” Zemlock experience though, when said. “[The app] alerts the students are aware of the user where SFSB discounts program, they do use it fre-can be found [by] location.” quently.” For those students who are 
LeStrange said students aware of the program, the at all three eligible colleges majority of feedback is posi­would be more likely to par-tive, LeStrange said. 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
Europe and the Middle East. 
“There are many, many international opportunities offered to students,” Rivers said. “This is the one night in the year where they all come together.” 
Lance Askildson, assistant provost for internationaliza­tion, will kick off the eve­ning with opening remarks. Two seniors will then share experiences from their time abroad and discuss their im­pact on a Notre Dame educa­tion. 
“One of the things we want to convey is that you’re not just a passive participant in your education,” Rivers said. “It’s easy to be overwhelmed, but I think students should take the opportunity to build their own program.” 
Rivers said students still considering different pro­grams should talk to other students about their experi­ences before narrowing their options. 
“The best advice, the hard­est to follow, is [to] talk to others,” she said. “Then you can compare goals for your education, find how to reach them and pursue what makes the most sense.” 
Students should research opportunities during fresh­man and sophomore year to find a niche for themselves, she said. 

“You can’t write one appli­cation and expect that to get you into any program,” Riv­ers said. “You need to talk to each program, find out their missions and work with that.” 
Students who participated in the programs gain confi­dence and a sense of inde­pendence, Rivers said. Man­aging education, research and work in a different cul­ture helps students to grow as individuals and to gain a better understanding of the place of the United States on the global stage, she said. 
Senior Lily Hough taught English in Manta off the coast of Ecuador the summer after her sophomore year. Hough traveled through an internship with the Kellogg Institute and was connected with a teaching program called WorldTeach. 
“I had never taught be­fore, so WorldTeach provided me teacher training for two weeks in the capital, Quito, before sending me out into the field,” she said. “I had to create my own curriculum for the summer and design all of my own lesson plans.” 
Hough’s work in the class­room was extremely chal­lenging, and she said being so far from home took a toll. Still, Hough does not regret her experience abroad. 
“The language barrier was really tough, and without my family and friends, it was the hardest thing I’ve ever done in my life, but it was the best 
“The feedback we did get from students was always very appreciative,” she said. “Sometimes we heard that the discount wasn’t applied as a student thought it should be, and we were prompt in contacting the business and getting confirmation that they were still in the pro­gram. Fine-tuning is another key part of the development of the program we’d like to see this year.” 
Zemlock’s own experience with an off-campus business owner affirms her belief that the program can do more than just save students a few dollars. 
“My friends and I dined a Girasol’s, a small Salvadoran restaurant, one day for lunch and had a lovely conversation with the husband and wife who own the restaurant,” she said. “It’s conversations like these that truly foster community engagement.” 
LeStrange sees the pro­gram as a tool for popping the infamous campus “bub­ble.” 
“SFSB creates a conversa­tion with local residents that isn’t always there,” she said. “We hope it’s an entry way for students to break outside of the Notre Dame bubble and get involved with the community we live in.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
too,” Hough said. “I had to get really creative to get the students to break out of their shells and start participat­ing.” 
The International Open House originally began as a re-entry point for students returning from study abroad like Hough, Rivers said. The first few workshops focused on returning students’ plans to continue work in the coun­tries they visited. 
Since then, the Open House has grown into a showcase of international study pro­grams available to students still considering their op­tions. 
“Students can do almost anything they want to do,” Rivers said. “That wasn’t the case when I began nine years ago.” 
Hough said her experience abroad, even with its chal­lenges, had a positive impact on her. 
“Especially when you’re engaged in work directed at someone else’s benefit, you learn a great lesson in ser­vice,” she said. “It’s about how working and engaging with that community chang­es something in you that makes you a better human being.” 
The International Open House will take place in the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies Wednesday from 4 to 7 p.m. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Fire 
continued from page 1 
Fire Chief Timothy Hoeppner said. 
“These duties include build­ing inspections, maintenance, testing of all fire protection sys­tems and public education,” he said. “At the beginning of each school year we hold classes to instruct rectors and hall staff in the proper use of extinguish­ers. We also perform fire drills in all residence halls and some classroom buildings.” 
Hoeppner stressed preven­tion as a crucial aspect of fire safety. Notre Dame firefighters are committed not only to fight­ing fires as they arise, but also to preventing dangerous situa­tions from ever occurring, he said. 
“NDFD is responsible for minimizing the possibility of fires by promoting fire safety wherever possible,” he said. “To do so, we perform annual fire code and [Occupational Safety and Health Administra­tion}  safety inspections, design reviews for building and re­modeling projects and advise campus user groups on fire code compliance and general safety issues.” 
Despite the fire department’s best efforts, fires and other emergencies do occur on the Notre Dame campus. The com­bined weekly average of fires, emergency medical calls and rescue reports at Notre Dame is three-and-a-half calls per day, Hoeppner said. 
“Medical emergencies con­stitute the majority of NDFD’s responses, with over half of the department’s calls dealing with the ill and injured in our cover­age area,” he said. 
Fire-related issues constitute the remainder of emergency reports, which constitute about one third of all calls, Hoeppner said. 


Poverty 
continued from page 1 
analyzing a household’s con­sumption relative to income for a more accurate view of the situation. 
“Consider if a person has a job, but the person is worried about losing the job in this time of economic struggle. The person might decide to save more money, and so con­sumption goes down,” he said. “The income remains the same, but without considering consumption, we cannot accu­rately depict the person’s true economic circumstances.” 
The Bureau of Labor Sta­tistics conducts consumption surveys quarterly. Households are asked questions about expenses such as groceries, clothes, mortgages and car payments. 
“Poverty rates based on con­sumption would provide bet­ter estimates of the effective­ness of government programs, such as food stamps and Med­icaid, and would show that these programs are working,” Sullivan said. 
While the poverty levels on record have increased, Sul­livan said a more holistic ap­proach to analyzing the statis­tics would indicate a decline in the official poverty rate. 
“Yes, the official poverty rate in 2009 is higher than it was in 1980,” he said. “But if you compare the poverty rates from 1980 to 2009 using con­sumption and after-tax in­

“The most common are cook­ing issues caused by students using excessive amounts of cooking oil and not closely mon­itoring their cooking, which can lead to an overheating situation,” he said. “This type of fire can be easily prevented by simply paying careful atten­tion to any cooking activity and making sure that cooking sur­faces are clean before use.” 
Fire drills, medical transport and cooking fire extinguish­ment are all a far cry from the services provided by the Uni­versity’s first fire prevention organization, established in 1846. The company was staffed by a group of volunteer Holy Cross brothers. 
“Their main duties were listed in 1846 as ‘to procure buckets, axes and other tools during a fire,’” Hoeppner said. “Their ‘fire engine’ was a piece of pumping equipment that was located in a shed adjacent to the campus dog kennel.” 
While the aforementioned Main Building disaster result­ed in increased attention to fire safety, the department did not come into its current form until decades later. 
“In 1896, a central firehouse was built with two bays to hold the hose carts and a tower was later added to hang [a] wet hose,” he said. “By 1900, the Notre Dame Scholastic noted that the University had the ‘best fire protection in America,’ and ‘could deliver over 2,000 gal­lons of water per minute within five minutes of the alarm.’” 
Further expansion occurred after the St. Edward’s Hall fire in 1980, as the first profession­al firefighters were hired. 
“This marked the begin­ning of the modern NDFD,” Hoeppner said. “We continue to work closely to promote the safety of our students, faculty and staff.” 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 
come, which adjusts for infla­tion and the Earned Income Tax Credit, the poverty rates have gone down.” 
Whether the rate has mar­ginally increased or de­creased, Sullivan also ac­knowledges the continuing impact of poverty. He said large-scale economic im­provement is the most cer­tain way to improve the living standards of the poor. 
“The best way to fight pov­erty is to promote economic growth,” Sullivan said. 
One proposal for improving the situation is an increase in the minimum wage. 
However, Sullivan said he doubts the effectiveness of such a solution. 
“Increasing the minimum wage would be a very blunt in­strument for fighting poverty. For example, some teenagers who work at minimum wage have parents not at the pov­erty level,” he said. “It would be more effective to increase programs such as the Earned Income Tax Credit because you would put money in the hands that need it most.” 
Given the economic climate, Sullivan said there may not be an easy fix for the issue. 
“Unemployment has actu­ally come down a little, which suggests that poverty may fall in the future, but not by much,” he said. “Unfortu­nately, in the short-term, high poverty rates may be here to stay.” 
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 
Airports change child security procedures 
Associated Press airport screening system on a 
small number of travelers who 

WASHINGTON — Children volunteer personal informa­12 years old and younger soon tion that intelligence officials will no longer be required to re-will vet. If cleared, these trav­move their shoes at airport se-elers could go through security curity checkpoints, Homeland faster, in some cases, because Security Sec-they won’t be 
retary Janet asked to take 
“There will always be some 
Napolitano their shoes 
unpredictability built into 
told Congress off. 
on Tuesday. the system, and there will Removing 
The policy always be random checks shoes during 
also includes even for groups that we checkpoint 
other ways to are looking at differently, screening has 
screen young such as children.” been a com-
children with-mon com-
out resorting plaint among 
Janet Napolitano 
to a pat-down airline trav­
secretary 
that involves elers since 
touching pri-Homeland Security security was 
vate areas on increased af­
the body. ter an al-Qai-Napolitano said during a da operative tried to set off a 
Senate hearing on the ter-bomb built into his shoe on an 
ror threat to the U.S. that the American Airlines flight in De-
changes would be rolled out cember 2001. 
in the coming months. But 
the Transportation Security 
Administration later said the 
changes would be rolled out in 
weeks rather than months. Napolitano said there may be 
some exceptions to keep air­
port security unpredictable. 
Terrorists have plotted to use 
children as suicide bombers, 
and some children still may be 
required to remove their shoes 
to keep security random. “There will always be some 
unpredictability built into the 
system, and there will always 
be random checks even for 
groups that we are looking at 
differently, such as children,” 
she said. Many travelers have com­
plained that the TSA does not 
use common sense when it 
screens all air travelers the 
same way, including young 
children and the elderly. Criti­
cism escalated last year when 
the government began using a 
pat-down more invasive than 
what had been used in the 
past, one that involves screen­
ers feeling a traveler’s genital 
and breast areas. Earlier this year, TSA in­
troduced a modified pat-down 
for children 12 and under and 
later announced it would look 
at ways to screen children 
through other methods to re­
duce the number of pat-downs 
provided to them. TSA Admin­
istrator John Pistole had called 
for a more aggressive pat-
down for air travelers when he 
took over the agency last year 
because he thought it gave 
screeners the best chance at 
stopping a suicide bomber like 
the one who nearly brought 
down an airliner over Detroit 
in 2009 with a bomb tucked in 
his pants. To reduce the number of 
pat-downs given to children, 
screeners will soon be told to 
send children through metal 
detectors or the walk-through 
imaging machines multiple 
times to capture a clear pic­
ture and use more explosive 
trace detection tools such as 
hand swabs, according to the 
TSA. “TSA anticipates these 
changes, which will begin 
rolling out in select airports 
this week, will continue to 
strengthen and streamline the 
security screening process for 
travelers,” said agency spokes­
man, Greg Soule. The government is expected 
to soon begin testing a new 

Students save life of motorcyclist 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY — The university math students heard the crash, saw the smoke and knew they had to act quickly. A motorcy­clist had just collided with a car and was pinned beneath the flaming, twisted metal wreckage. 
Disregarding their own safety, they rushed to the street and lined up with more than half dozen others on one side of the car. Within mo­ments, they managed to lift the roughly 4,000-pound car just high enough for one res­cuer to pull Brandon Wright to safety. 
“The danger? I didn’t think about it for a minute,” said James Odei, 35, a doctoral on video and has gone viral hospital bed. “They saved my candidate from Ghana who on the Internet. The man they life.” is studying statistics. “All I saved — the 21-year-old Utah Had none of the rescuers wanted to do was grab that State University student — is acted, “you can only specu­car and raise it.” grateful. late what the outcome would 
For their actions, the rescu-“I’m just very thankful for have been,” Assistant Logan ers are being called “heroes” everyone that helped me out,” Police Chief Jeff Curtis said. and “angels” — their few min-Wright told The Associated “Every one of those people put utes of heroics was captured Press by telephone from his their lives in danger.” 



Perry’s HPV policy catches flack 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas — Four years ago, Gov. Rick Perry put aside his social conservative bona fi­des and signed an order requir­ing Texas girls to be vaccinated against HPV. 
The human papillomavirus is a sexually spread virus that can cause cervical cancer, and he says his aim was protecting against that cancer. But it didn’t take long for angry conserva­tives in the Legislature to over­ride a measure they thought tacitly approved premarital sex, and for critics to accuse Perry of cronyism. 
Now Perry’s taking heat on the issue anew as he runs for the presidential nomination of a GOP heavily influenced by con­servatives who are sour on the government dictating health care requirements. Illustrat­ing the delicate politics at play, he’s both defending himself and calling his action a mistake. 
“If I had it to do over again, I would have done it differently,” Perry said Monday night as he debated his rivals, insisting that he would have worked with the Legislature instead of unilater­ally acting. But he did not back down from his stance that girls should be vaccinated against the virus, which is generally spread by sexual contact. He argued that it wasn’t a mandate and noted that he included the right for parents to opt out of the vaccinations. 
“This was about trying to stop a cancer,” he said. “I am always going to err on the side of life.” 
Not that the explanation sat­isfied his GOP opponents. 
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum told Perry, “This is big government run amok. It is bad policy, and it should not have been done.” 
And Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, looking to siphon support from Perry’s base of evangelical and tea party sup­porters, said: “To have innocent little 12-year-old girls be forced to have a government injection through an executive order is just flat out wrong.” She also noted that that the company that makes the vaccine, Merck & Co., employed Mike Toomey, Perry’s former chief of staff, as a lobbyist in Texas, and that the 

New evidence cites more BP oil spill mistakes 


drug company had donated to Perry’s campaigns. 
Renewing the attack Tuesday, Bachmann said on NBC’s “To­day” show that “it’s very clear that crony capitalism could likely have been the cause” of Perry’s executive order. 
The exchanges mirror the criticism Perry took in 2007. 
It all began when Merck, which won approval for the first HPV vaccine a year earlier, was spending millions lobbying state legislators to require girls to be vaccinated with the new product, Gardasil. The com­pany also was donating mon­ey to a national organization called Women in Government, which in Texas was led by state Rep. Dianne White Delisi, who chaired the House public health committee. She was also the mother-in-law of Perry’s chief of staff at the time, Deirdre Delisi 
— the same woman who now is one of Perry’s top presidential campaign aides. 
Schedule and campaign fi­nance reports show that on one day — Oct. 16, 2006 — Deirdre Delisi held a staff meeting to discuss the vaccine and Merck’s political action committee gave Perry $5,000. The drug maker had previously given $6,000 in donations. Perry’s office called the timing of the donation a co­incidence. 
A review of campaign finance reports shows that Merck’s po­litical action committee con­tinued to contribute, a total of $17,500 to Perry’s campaign fund between 2008 and 2010 even though Perry’s order was eventually overturned. 
By early 2007, Toomey and Dianne White Delisi were working to overcome opposi­tion among lawmakers to a bill to require the vaccination. But conservatives said they feared the requirement would infringe on personal liberties and sig­nal approval of premarital sex. Rather than wait for the Leg­islature to act, Perry signed an executive order on Feb. 2, 2007, requiring the vaccination 
— with an opt-out provision. It surprised even his allies who acknowledged that it was out of step with his limited-govern­ment stance. 
Perry explained his action by pointing to his long-docu­mented passion about fighting cancer. He had signed a host of legislation to that end, includ­ing a constitutional amendment in Texas that created a cancer research institute funded with $3 billion from bond sales. 
“We have a vaccine that’s going to save young women’s lives,” Perry said in 2007. “This is wise public policy.” 
The governor quickly found that Texas parents didn’t like the idea of the government telling preadolescents to be vaccinated against a sexually transmitted disease. Within three weeks, the House pub­lic health committee approved a bill negating the order but Perry persisted in defending his initiative. By May 8, when it was clear the Legislature was going to pass the bill stopping his or­der, Perry said he would stop fighting. 
Associated Press 
A BP scientist identified a previously unreported deposit of flammable gas that could have played a role in the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, but the oil gi­ant failed to divulge the finding to government investigators for as long as a year, according to interviews and documents ob­tained by The Associated Press. 
While engineering experts differ on the extent to which the two-foot-wide swath of gas-bearing sands helped cause the disaster, the finding raises the specter of further legal and fi­nancial troubles for BP. It also could raise the stakes in the multibillion-dollar court battle between the companies in­volved. 
A key federal report into what caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history is set to be released as early as Wednesday. 
“This is a critical factor, where the hydrocarbons are found,” said Rice University engineering professor Satish Nagarajaiah. “I think further studies are needed to determine where this exactly was and what response was initiated by BP if they knew this fact.” 
At issue: BP petrophysicist Galina Skripnikova in a closed-door deposition two months ago told attorneys involved in the oil spill litigation that there ap­peared to be a zone of gas more than 300 feet above where BP told its contractors and regu­lators with the then-Minerals Management Service the shal­lowest zone was located. 
The depth of the oil and gas is a critical parameter in drill­ing because it determines how much cement a company needs to pump to adequately seal a well. Federal regulations re­quire the top of the cement to be 500 feet above the shallow­est zone holding hydrocarbons, meaning BP’s cement job was potentially well below where it should have been. 
Cement contractor Halli­burton recently filed a law­suit against BP asserting that Skripnikova’s statements prove the oil giant knew about the shallower gas before the explo­sion and should have sought a new cement and well design. BP has denied the allegations. 

Skripnikova’s job involved an­alyzing data from BP’s Macondo well to determine the depth and characteristics of oil and gas de­posits, which in turn is used in a process called temporary aban­donment, when wells are sealed so they can be used for produc­tion later. 
Based on the initial informa­tion, regulators approved BP’s well sealing plan, which called for placing the top of the ce­ment at roughly 17,300 feet be­low the surface of the water. The cement was pumped April 19, the day before the explo­sion. But Skripnikova said that after she flew back from the rig she and others re-examined the analysis, and on the day of the explosion she identified the shallower gas zone. That would have meant the cement should have been placed at just under 17,000 feet below the surface of the water. 
She said she did not relay that information to drilling engi­neers on the Deepwater Horizon and warn them to hold off pro­ceeding with the abandonment. She suggested in her deposition that she thought the information would be passed up the chain. BP was already $60 million over budget and stopping operations at that point and coming up with a new cement design would have meant millions of extra dollars in costs. 
Later in the deposition, Skripnikova backtracked and said the new analysis was not discussed among her team until the day after the explosion. 
“Do you believe that BP com­plied with MMS regulations with its selection of where the top of cement should go in the cement job that was done on April 19,” an attorney asked Skripnikova. 
“I don’t know,” she responded. 

Before her deposition, none of Skripnikova’s findings appear to have been passed on to fed­eral regulators or the numerous government investigations since the disaster. Skripnikova was never questioned at public hear­ings before the presidentially-appointed oil spill commission. Nor was she questioned before the joint investigative panel of the U.S. Coast Guard and the agency that regulates offshore drilling, which is readying its fi­nal report. Her name and the in­formation she has is not in BP’s internal investigation report re­leased last September. 
BP spokesman Scott Dean in­sisted in a statement Tuesday to AP that when assessing top-of­cement requirements before the accident, BP did not identify the zone in question as bearing oil or gas. Dean said “BP has pro­vided material concerning this zone to the parties in the multi-district litigation and to govern­ment investigators.” 
BP provided a letter late Tues­day it said it sent the oil spill commission on Oct. 30, 2010, six months after the explosion. The letter said BP would be sending the commission draft reports the company prepared and more detailed studies to help inform its efforts to stop the flow of oil to the sea. The letter does not detail what the reports said, what data was provided, or whether the data was the same as what Skripnikova discussed in her deposition. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, September 14, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A Sharpe 
player in 
the Hall 
The NFL season is upon us and that means NFL Sunday pregame shows are also upon us. While I have never been an avid viewer of any of the pregame shows, one will definitely catch my 
attention this sea­ 
son — that one is  
The NFL Today on  Walker Carey  
CBS. The reason  
 
why I will follow  Sports Writer  
that program is  

because of analyst Shannon Sharpe. 
Shannon Sharpe was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame on Aug. 6 — a very deserving inductee who became one of the greatest tight ends of all-time during his career with the Denver Broncos and Baltimore Ravens. To tell you the truth, I was not the big­gest fan of Sharpe during his playing career. I obviously acknowledged his undeniable talent, but his trash talk­ing, showboating and what I perceived as a very arrogant personality always put me off. I often put Shannon Sharpe into the same category that I place Ter­rell Owens and Chad Ochocinco — that category being very talented, but just as egotistical. My thoughts on Sharpe forever changed when he stepped to the podium on that Saturday night and de­livered the most heartfelt and inspiring Hall of Fame speech in recent memory. 
Throughout his speech, Sharpe showed that he was much more than just a Hall of Fame football player. I never thought humility would be a word I would use to describe the legendary tight end, but now that is the only word that comes to mind. Sharpe’s humility was never more evident than when he talked about his older brother Sterling. Sterling Sharpe was a standout receiver for the Green Bay Packers from 1988­1994, but unfortunately had his career cut short due to a serious neck injury. 
When acknowledging his “hero,” Sharpe stated, “I’m the only player, of 267 men that [have] walked through this building to my left, that can hon­estly say this: I’m the only pro football player that’s in the Hall of Fame, and I’m the second best player in my own family.” 
Shannon’s love for his brother was never as clear as when he said of him, “I never once lived in your shadow. I embraced it.” 
Sharpe also went into great detail describing his rough upbringing. His grandparents raised him, his brother and his sister in a one-thousand square foot cinder block home with cement floors in Glenville, Ga. He talked about times when they would have to eat cold oatmeal, raccoon, possum, squirrel and turtle. He never used his upbringing as an excuse, but rather used it as a driv­ing force to provide his grandmother with what she deserved. 
In the most touching moment of speech, Sharpe described when he saw his late grandmother in her casket and said to her, “Granny, are you proud of your baby? Because everything I’ve done in my life, I’ve tried to please you.” 
I never thought my opinion of Shan­non Sharpe would change, but on that Saturday night, I began to recognize that Shannon Sharpe is not only a Hall of Fame football player, but he is also a Hall of Fame man. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 

Notre Dame’s sexual assault policy changed for the better 
This article is part one of a two-part look into the University of Notre Dame’s Sexual Misconduct and Sexual Assault Policy. Part two will discuss the rela­tionship between sexual misconduct, sexual assault and alcohol and the Uni­versity’s Drug and Alcohol Policy. 
For citation purposes, OCR will refer to the June 30, 2011, letter from Debbie Osgood, Director of the Chicago Office of the U.S. Department of Education Of­fice for Civil Rights, to Father Jenkins, Alex Coccia and RES will refer to the Resolution Shard of Glass agreed upon and signed by Father Doyle. 
When the U.S. Department of Edu­cation Office for Civil Rights (OCR) completed its Title IX investigation “to examine the University’s policies and procedures relating to student-on-stu­dent (peer) sexual harassment and the University’s implementation of those policies and procedures,” media sourc­es from ESPN to Fox News covered the story. While most of the focus of the media coverage was on the unstated link between the OCR investigation and certain cases from the previous year, little attention was given to the importance of the changes that Notre Dame agreed upon with the OCR. The changes to the University’s practices and policies include: 
(1)
 “Allegations of sexual harassment are evaluated using a ‘preponderance of the evidence’ standard;” 

(2)
 “Complainant’s option to pursue a criminal complaint with the appropri­ate law enforcement agency, to pursue the University’s disciplinary process or to pursue both processes simultane­ously will be stated more prominently;” 

(3)
 “Complainants are advised that the University will investigate allega­tions of sexual harassment, and take appropriate action, even if the com­plainant does not wish to pursue the disciplinary process, but that any re­sponse by the University may be hin­dered by the complainant’s wishes for anonymity and/or inaction;” 

(4) 
“‘No contact’ orders are issued in writing to all parties to an alleged sexual assault promptly after the Uni­versity receives notice of a complaint;” 

(5)
 “Both the complainant and the ac­cused in sexual harassment cases have the opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence, and both receive equivalent notice of the process, access to peer support, information about pro­cedures and written notice of the out­come;” 

(6)
 “The Code will be amended to provide for alternative arrangements for complainants who do not want to be present in the same room as the ac­cused during the disciplinary hearing;” 

(7)
 “Except in extraordinary circum­stances (notice of which will be provid­ed to all parties), case reviews will be resolved within 30 days of receipt of the request for review.” (All citations from 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I haven’t slept for 10 days, because that would be too long.” 
Mitch Hedberg American comedian 
RES). 

Preponderance of the Evidence Stan­dard: This is the standard used in the majority of civil cases. By this standard the criteria are met if the alleged ac­tion is more likely to be true than to not be true. One concern about using this standard for judgment is that persons falsely accused of sexual misconduct or assault could more easily be found responsible. However, “both the com­plainant and the accused in sexual ha­rassment cases have the opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence, and both receive equivalent notice of the process, access to peer support, in­formation about procedures and writ­ten notice of the outcome.” The prepon­derance of evidence standard does not mean that the alleged perpetrator is guilty unless proven innocent. It does, however, lessen the requirements from the “clear and convincing standard” because the “clear and convincing stan­dard” does not appropriately address the Title IX prohibition on “discrimina­tion on the basis of sex in any educa­tion program” (OCR). The OCR Report further states, “sexual harassment of a student creates a hostile environment if the conduct is sufficiently serious that it denies or limits a student’s abil­ity to participate in or benefit from the recipient’s program.” The preponder­ance of evidence standard makes the process easier for the alleged victim in a process where previously “clear and convincing” might have been too dif­ficult to prove when some cases have limited evidence or no witnesses. 
Under the new OCR guidelines, the University will investigate allegations of sexual misconduct or assault even if the complainant does not wish the University to pursue the disciplinary process. Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Ann Firth explained that the reasoning behind this change comes from OCR’s understanding of re­search suggesting that sexual assaults on campuses are acts committed by a small number of people, meaning that many cases of sexual assault are com­mitted by serial perpetrators. There­fore, the obligation to pursue a claim should not rest solely with the com­plainant. The University has the obli­gation to pursue any claim made to a non-confidential source. Confidential sources include counseling services, health services, the SOS Rape Crisis Center of St. Joseph’s County, campus ministers and rectors. Campus min­isters and rectors must, however, dis­close information to the University if they judge that someone is in immi­nent danger or if the alleged victim is a minor. Reports to rectors given by RAs and ARs are not considered con­fidential. The University’s pursuance of claims is focused on taking “prompt and effective steps reasonably calculat­ed to end the harassment, [eliminating] any hostile environment and its effects, and [preventing] the harassment from recurring” (OCR). 
Amendment of the Code for com­plainants not to be present in the same room as the accused during disciplin­ary hearings: This change will hope­fully be a relief for certain victims who may have doubts about coming forward because of fear that they will have to be confronted by the alleged perpe­trator. This change, no contact orders and arrangements for dorm transfer and schedule change, can all help the victim pursue both criminal complaint and University disciplinary process without much fear of intimidation by the alleged perpetrator. The right to face the witnesses against oneself does not apply in civil court. So any criminal proceedings pursued by the complain­ant will have the face-to-face confron­tation requirement. But on campus, the complainant should feel safe to discuss with disciplinary personnel the details of the alleged assault or misconduct. This policy change should also help the University to conduct more detailed and fuller investigations into claims that before would have been “hindered by the complainant’s wishes for ano­nymity and/or inaction.” 
Case reviews done within 30 days of receipt of request for review: This pol­icy ensures that unless there are ex­traordinary circumstances, the review of disciplinary procedures is not going to be drawn out. If this procedure is drawn out, the victim can become dis­heartened, dismayed and may lose the conviction to continue aiding the re­view. An expedited review also allows victims the closure while a prolonged review may take a psychological toll on the academic and social lives of both the alleged victim and the accused. 
Another goal of the University is to better publicize the University’s Sexual Misconduct and Sexual Assault Policy, the avenues that victims can take in fil­ing complaints and the steps the Uni­versity will take in conducting investi­gations. All residence halls should be informing their students about the pol­icy and procedures. The changes that have been made to the University’s pol­icy are voluntarily agreed upon by the University and well advised by the Of­fice of Civil Rights, and they will make Notre Dame’s policy one of the top in the country when it comes to post-as­sault and post-misconduct action and investigation. An April 4, 2011, article in The Chronicle of Higher Education cites that “Data from the National In­stitute of Justice show that about one in five women are victims of sexual as­sault in college, and just over six per­cent of men are.” Notre Dame has the opportunity and the resources to se­verely decrease this statistic, a topic that will be discussed further in Part Two of this University Policy segment. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WEEKLY POLL 

How often do you go onto 
The Observer’s website? 
Every day Once a week Once a month Never 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 



Wednesday, September 14, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Football ticket economics 
Ann Arbor ? Sept. 11 ? Mark Rolfes ‘84 re­porting: 
The futures market for Notre Dame Football tickets has fallen sharply due to concerns over the Greek debt situation, including fears that South Bend will be defaulting to Spartans and Trojans in the near future. Thus, supply is an­ticipated to be much higher than ever thought possible only two weeks ago. Those hedging in September and October tickets have been bat­tered, and the derivatives market is all but non­existent at this point. A bailout from Lou Holtz was just not a possibility due to his current investments in South Florida at this time. 
While USC, Oregon, Miami and others have implemented Quantitative Easing programs for their players, University President Fr. John Jen­kins will not be introducing any new stimulus plan at this point, urging all to hold the course (a position that has been attacked relentlessly by Michele Bachmann). 
Prime Minister Angela Merkel has consid­ered propping up the Notre Dame regime, but reportedly she is demanding that the school’s nickname be changed to the Fighting Germans in return. Notre Dame priests are considering the move, but there is rumored to be dissent from the Board of Trustees, who are not sure the entitlement-class alumni will accept the Leprechaun being replaced by a lederhosen­clad mascot. Students are supportive, based on the promise of a St. Pauli’s Girl passing out free beer in all of the male dorms. There is also rumor of a potential hostile takeover bid by Butler University looking to diversify into football after two years of meteoric success in its basketball endeavors. 
Meanwhile, another senior class is guar­anteed to graduate without another national championship, causing the newest generation of Domers to fear that they will permanently have a decreased standard of football living than their parents and grandparents. Older Domers, who have lived through the Great Faust Depres­sion and the Great Davie Recession say that these things are cyclical, and that every Bren­nan or Faust is followed by a Parseghian or Holtz, and that perhaps a Kelly will have what it takes to get things turned around. 
As grim as the current market conditions are, the incoming crop forecast of freshman and 2012 recruits are encouraging for a future turnaround. As always, in good times or bad, what though the odds be great or small — go Irish! 
Mark Rolfes 
alumnus Class of 1984 Sept. 12 
A 9/11 commemoration 
I was disappointed in The Observer’s full-page ad commemorating 9/11. 
It is appropriate to remember all those mur­dered by the al Qaeda terrorists on Sept. 11, 2001. It is appropriate to remember the U.S. soldiers killed and wounded in their command­er-in-chief’s  misguided, unprovoked invasion of Iraq and the ill-defined and indefinite police action and nation building that has been going on in Afghanistan for twice as long as the U.S. was involved in World War II. 
But it is untrue to say — no matter how fash­ionable or “patriotic” — that soldiers ordered to Iraq and Afghanistan have been sacrificing their lives, limbs and mental health to “defend our freedom?” Being ordered to invade a country that had nothing to do with a terrorist attack is not “defending our freedom.” It is a tragedy of monumental proportions and a dark chapter in our country’s history. 
I know it pains and offends many to say this, but merely serving in the military — even being sent somewhere to be shot at — is not defending our freedom either. If a country or group were to invade the United States with the intention of instituting a dictatorship, then being part of the resistance would be defending our freedom. But that hasn’t happened — ever. Even the Japanese attack upon Pearl Harbor was not intended as the first battle in a war to conquer the United States and absorb it into the Japanese empire. 
So let’s honor members of the military for their courage and honor when they demon­strate it, as they often do, in a just cause. Let us continue to train and equip defensive — never offensive — military forces in numbers propor­tional to threats. But let us show service men and women our sympathy — not hero worship 
— when they are deployed on a nonsensical mission, as Iraq was. Let us demand, finally, an accounting for the wrongheaded decision and a public apology. 
And while we’re remembering the victims of 9/11, could we hear even one word of sympathy or regret for the tens of thousands of innocent Iraqis killed and wounded in a war fought on their soil that they neither deserved nor wel­comed? 

Ed Cohen 
Business Writer Mendoza College of Business Sept. 13 
Randi’s got some explaining to do 
I want to applaud the Office of the President for choosing such an important topic for the Notre Dame Forum. Our public school system is failing millions of students each year and no solution can be found until a discussion including cur­rent leaders and future innovators is held. The massive inequity in schools all across America is prohibiting low-income and minority students from functioning as self-sustaining individuals. More than that, our country is falling in interna­tional rankings and we are losing billions of dol­lars each year in lost wages and taxes.  The crisis in American education will paralyze our country economically and socially if something is not done immediately. 
Last spring, the Forum’s precursor event, The System, brought together individuals who were wholly committed to changing the face of Ameri­can education for good. I was then confused when I read that Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, would be speaking as part of the Forum 2011. I recognize that to understand an issue, both sides must be heard out. But why host a discussion on positive change and “reimagining schools” if the largest opponent will continue to halt that progress and conversation? 
Unions are not an entirely bad concept, as teachers are still extremely underappreciated and overworked. However today, unions protect inef­fective teachers and make it difficult for districts to implement changes to improve the quality of teaching. In no other profession is it acceptable to keep someone around who doesn’t do his or her job. Unions also halt serious efforts at reform for logistical reasons. How does this benefit the kids? 
Teachers’ unions place the importance of their members over the needs of children. But who is advocating for the children? Who is lobbying to make sure their rights are being protected? I welcome Weingarten because I think it’s about time the conversation about education came to Notre Dame. I hope students are ready to ask the tough questions, and I hope Weingarten is ready to answer them. 
Emmy Pusateri 
junior Ryan Hall Sept. 12 
The jumbotron factor 
Shortly after graduating from Notre Dame in 2000 I moved to Los Angeles where I’ve spent the last ten years working on the television show South Park.  My schedule allows me to travel to a fair amount of Notre Dame foot­ball games.  I was at Yankee Stadium last year when we beat Army, and the Coliseum the following week when we snapped our eight game losing streak to USC.  I passed on El Paso, but I did make the trip to South Bend for this year’s home opener against SFU, and I was part of the 114,804 in Ann Arbor last Saturday night. 
Following our Irish the past 15 years to stadiums all over the country has helped me further appreciate our tra­ditions.  Our students united in a singular colored T-shirt, our crowd-surfing pushups after touchdowns, our beauti­ful stadium and campus — I love that we stand together after games, win or lose singing our alma mater, and I’m proud that we play our opponents’ fight song for their visit­ing fans.  That’s just classy.  That’s who we should always strive to be. 
I had a moment of clarity Saturday night with 4:23 left in the 4th quarter:  We need a jumbotron.  Robert Blanton had just intercepted Denard Robinson’s pass in the end zone protecting our 24-21 lead.  It was a huge moment in the game and should have been a big momentum shift. 
But it wasn’t. 

During the TV timeout, Michigan flashed clips from their glory years on their jumbotrons while blaring The White Stripes’ “Seven Nation Army.”  Two minutes of “dunt-dun­dunt-dunt-dunt-dunnnnn-duuuuuu” with 100,000 maize pom-poms in the air while they showed Desmond Howard and Charles Woodson highlights.  My friend turned to me and said, “It’s as if they just scored a touchdown instead of throwing an interception.”  He was right. 
You know the rest.  Three and out.  They score to take the lead.  When we scored with 30 seconds left there was still no quit in their fans.  Their energy willed their team to victory. 
The jumbotrons gave them that energy. 
Ben Paine 
alumnus Class of 2000 Sept. 13 

The state of a letter 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 

Writing a Viewpoint is a vicious endeavor that requires coherent penmanship. It respectfully demands the use of both clear thoughts and complete names. However, you gain the respect of no one if you first fail to tell people what the heck you’re talking about. I’m looking at you Mr. Varley. (“The state of the program,” Sept. 12) 
As it stands, there is one man who has proven himself incapable of writing a coherent Viewpoint, three men who apparently have something to do with football, two men who each coach some sort of team, one running back who has looked pretty solid and thousands of people utterly confused by the content of your particular Viewpoint. 
Some will make comments that will reach the pinnacle of a Viewpoint war. One is still confused. 
The University of Notre Dame oversees a $6.8 billion endowment that it has amassed due to its excellence in academic and spiritual pursuits (through the generosity of many very financially successful alumni). The football program is not the cornerstone — but it is one of many features (such as a few ACT points, a couple billion dol­lars and 258 miles) that separate us from the University of Dayton. Football seems to be the only reason why Mr. Varley attended Notre Dame. 
Mike, I don’t care what it takes. Review your letters with six black sharpies, remove it from Mother Earth and please do not send it to South Bend. 
The landscape of college football (is that what this letter is about?) has changed dramatically over the past two de­cades. Clever brand positioning is what I’m learning about in my marketing classes (funded by the endowment but also taught at the University of Dayton). 
It can sustain us a little longer. Conference affiliation is apparently not an option (probably because Dayton is in the A10). 
The time to act responsibly will occur on Saturday. We are only left with the rest of the week. Let’s party while we still can. 
Brett Straka 
junior Siegfried Hall Sept. 12 



Dear Gentlemen of Notre Dame: Languish no more. The time has come. “Fashion by Felicia” has heard your cry and is here with the fashion tips you have eagerly been awaiting. 
I know how stress­ful your days are 
— you are the Fred Astaires to our Gin­ger Rogers. You think: “What, just because she does everything backwards and in heels she gets all the attention? What about me, wasting away as I attempt to accomplish all my ‘bro’ social events, turn in that business plan for my start-up, and impress my Econ professor at 8:30 in the morning? Isn’t my fashion presentation just as important as hers?” 
Yes, you are right. After all, we women of Notre Dame do have to social­ize and learn with you – it is fitting that you are anxious to look just as good as we do. As Fr. Hesburgh once said, the men of Notre Dame are the cream of the crop, and the women are the cream of the cream. So — let’s delve into the proverbial fashion harvest together! 
And so we will. It is getting close to harvest time here in the gorgeous Midwest, and the temperature is getting chilly and somewhat unpredictable. You find the air at 8:30 am bristling, while by lunch it’s back to summer. The evening then returns to cooler tem­peratures following air conditioning and heating adventures while indoors. Sweatshirts may solve the problem, but then they have to get scrunched into backpacks or thrown over the shoulder at lunch like an unattractive sack of potatoes. Jackets prove to be the same problem. Let’s face it — you just can’t show off those toned arms of summer the same way in a long-sleeved T-shirt. 
What would your Euro­

short-sleeved T-shirt Photo Courtesy of hm.com on and accessorize Scarf, HM.com, $12.95. with a scarf 
— the key element to any man’s je ne sais quoi fashion appeal. 



The scarf for men sets off serious fashion radar. It says you’re conscious enough of the elements, but independent and man enough to drape and wrap fab­ric. The ideal scarf for the chic man is made of cashmere for the winter months and a cooler cotton or mix for these transitional seasons. 
Length is key — when simply hang­ing around your neck, the ends of the scarf should reach the lower end of your torso. A short scarf will make you seem childish. Thickness is also important 
— delicate scarves are for your female counterparts. You can fold the scarf in the middle, drape around your neck and pull the other end through to create a simple knot or wrap the scarf multiple times around your neck, tying the very ends in a small knot. 
In terms of color, match the scarf to your overall ensemble. A navy scarf looks great with a white t-shirt and 

Senior Andrew Shimrock models a scarf. 
jeans. Try a light caramel color to go with a leather jacket or that black suit you wore to impress those corporate career fair attendees. Feel free to play with brighter colors too — I’ll bow to your manly judgment on this one. To fin­ish the look, throw on killer sunglasses and, if you’re feeling particularly daring, a hat. With a look like this, we women will be asking, “Who needs European men?” 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponigri@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 14, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

LAURA LAWS | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Federer’s reign over 
In a sport predicated on fluid­ity, grace and precision, he em­bodies more than anyone those very qualities. He holds the most Grand Slam tournament titles and the most Grand Slam Joseph Monardo finals played, along with a Sports Writer host of other tennis re­cords. He is perhaps the great­est tennis player of all time, but he’s no longer the greatest ten­nis player in the world today. 
And it makes me sad. 
Roger Federer’s reign atop the tennis world is apparently over, and the fans that watched him dominate the subjects held cap­tive by his great rule are forced to move on. To be sure, Federer is no has-been, he’s not washed up and he’s not embarrassing himself by taking the court, but he is clearly no longer “the man.” 
Beginning with his first title 
— Wimbledon in 2003 — Feder­er embarked on an astounding streak. Winning 16 of 27 Grand Slams from that Wimbledon to 2010’s Australian Open, Federer failed to reach the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam only once, as he landed in the final match of 22 of those 27 tournaments. 
But the 2010 Australian Open remains Federer’s last major victory. He has been bounced from the previous seven Grand Slams, most recently in the semifinals of the 2011 U.S. Open. 
The truth (and it’s an ugly truth for Fed-heads) is that Rog­er Federer is now one of best rather than the best, a fantas­tic player struggling to compete with his younger, fresher oppo­nents. 
This phenomenon happens all the time in sports. But for some reason I find Federer’s slow de­scent from godliness saddening. While Brett Favre tumbled un­gracefully into the sunset with his guns blazing, Barry Bonds exited as a King* amidst con­troversy and shame and Tiger Woods disgraced himself into mediocrity, Roger Federer will do no such thing. 
The GOAT candidate has ac­cepted his demotion with all the dignity and composure that one would expect him to. The soft-spoken Switzerland native makes himself so easy to sym­pathize with. 
Every time I see Federer lose a match, every time I watch a fi­nal without him in it I feel bad. I feel sorry for Roger, that nice guy who flashes a shy smile in the face of his greatness. 
Part of the reason behind this is the sport of tennis, in which the player is completely alone, completely exposed. There is nobody to hide behind, nobody to help shoulder the burden or share the blame. What we see out of Federer is completely a product of his own doing. Be­cause of this, the tennis player’s successes are made that much more impressive, his failures that much more disappointing. As a result, the viewer is able to relate directly to the player more so than in other sports. 
But with Federer especially, the fan base has been able to root for him as its own. He has been a stellar player whose cre­ativity and skill shine forth on the court. Rafael Nadal, 25, and Novak Djokovic, 24, who have combined to be the two-pronged thorn in Federer’s side, cannot possibly hope to ever command the respect that their 30-year­old counterpart does. They are the villains, the ones who inter­rupted the period of peace atop the world tennis scene. 
For fans of tennis there is still plenty to cheer about. There is no doubt that exciting ten­nis will be played in upcoming years by Nadal, Djokovic, Feder­er and other, younger players. Competition is what sport is all about, but at times, greatness can be infinitely more compel­ling than parity. 
It is rare that a man can man­age to completely dominate a sport, and I regret the pass­ing of  such a period. I selfishly crave that greatness, but I also feel true empathy for Federer. His grip is very slowly loosen­ing on that which not long ago seemed to be firmly in his grasp, and the world is watching him recede back into the ranks of mortal men. 
But that is OK. Even in his regression, Federer could hoist another Grand Slam trophy in the near future. 
When that happens, many fans around the world will en­joy the chance to celebrate one of the greatest tennis players of all time. Until then, I will re­member Federer at his greatest. 
Clad in a white sweater, zip­ping a between-the-legs shot past his opponent, hitting the perfect shot over and over, and over, again. They are the endur­ing images of greatness, Feder­er style. 
Joseph Monardo is a sopho­more who is the President of the Fedheads. He can be reached at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Big 10 schedules top opponents 
Associated Press 

Fans are not the only ones who can’t wait for those mar­quee early-season games, like Ohio State’s trip to Miami this weekend. 
“As a player, man, you love ‘em,” said Ohio State interim coach Luke Fickell, a former Buckeyes player. “You believe you’re invincible, and that’s what sometimes makes you good.” 
Miami has been stricken by scandal, but winning at Coral Gables isn’t expected to be easy for Ohio State. So isn’t this a risk, no matter the recruiting benefits that might come with a little exposure in talent-rich Florida? 
“You want to be able to test your team,” Fickell said. “Some people get too caught up in, ‘Well, you know we’ve got to be smart before you get into your conference because if we lose a game we can’t get in the BCS.’ I don’t think you can think about it that way.” 
Said Illinois coach Ron Zook, whose team hosts 22nd-ranked Arizona State this Saturday: “This is why you come to the Big Ten, to play in these kind of games.” 
Satisfying ticket buyers, at­tracting recruits and toughen­ing up players for the confer-ence-game grind requires a balancing act by coaches and administrators. 
They must schedule a mini­mum number of home games to keep ticket, concession and parking revenue up. They have to consider the importance of overall records for bowl bids. There’s an aspect of goodwill, too, with helping smaller area schools who relish playing on a bigger stage and need Big Ten money to balance their bud­gets. 
Ohio State paid Akron $850,000 to lose 42-0 in the season opener in Columbus, and the Buckeyes are giving Colorado $1.4 million to come to the ‘Shoe on Sept. 24. 
This is how the matrix be­gins to fit together: Playing in Columbus is a thrill for the Ohio-born players on Akron’s roster. It’s greater exposure for the program. For the Buckeyes, it’s a guaranteed home game and, usually, a sure win. 
Akron’s athletics depart­ment must generate about 25 percent of its own revenue, ac­cording to athletics director Tom Wistrcill, so taking home close to $1 million for playing one tough nonconference game 

We’ve got to go play these money games,” Wistrcill said. “That’s life at a mid-major.” 
Michigan will start next sea­son against Alabama in Texas at the home of the Dallas Cow­boys. The Wolverines still have two open dates to fill in 2012. They’re already playing Air Force and traveling to Notre Dame. 
“We’ve always played an ag­gressive schedule where I’ve been,” Wolverines coach Brady Hoke said. 
Nebraska coach Bo Pellini es­poused the same philosophy. 
“My view is to challenge your team to get ready for confer­ence play, but obviously you can’t play four top-10 teams ev­ery year,” Pellini said. “But I do think you want to put a prod­uct out there on the field and schedule games that are good for your fans. ... You can’t al­ways get what you want.” 
Just ask Minnesota coach Jerry Kill. 
He inherited a 2011 schedule with a season-opening trip to USC. The Gophers played well and lost 19-17, but during the week of the game he frankly said it wasn’t his preference to play the Trojans on the road, despite the exposure and expe­rience gained by the young Go­phers. 
“There’s an art when you turn a program around. We have large plans for what I think it’s going to take to turn the pro­gram around. Part of that is scheduling,” Kill said. 
Kill had a seizure on the side­line last week near the end of Minnesota’s game against New Mexico State, a scary scene that overshadowed a rather ugly loss for the Gophers. Not only were they beaten at home by a team from a non-BCS conference that since 1960, they paid $800,000 to do it. 
Most Big Ten teams play at least one opponent from a BCS conference — the ACC, the Big East, the Big 12, the SEC or the Pac-12 — each season. This year, only Iowa (Iowa State and Pittsburgh) and Ohio State (Mi­ami, Fla., and Colorado) are playing two. 
Most of them also look for one FCS foe — Minnesota hosts North Dakota State and Wiscon­sin takes on South Dakota, for example — to fill out the four-game slate. That typically leaves two spots for teams from the five non-BCS conferences at the FBS level — Conference USA, the MAC, the Mountain West, the Sun Belt and the WAC. 
It’s not so simple, though. 
Local and traditional rivalries are factored in. Iowa is commit­ted to playing Iowa State, just like Notre Dame always lands on the schedule with Michigan, Michigan State and Purdue. 
Sometimes, schools will sign two-and-one contracts, where a team like Miami of Ohio will visit Minnesota twice (including this Saturday) and the Gophers will travel there once. 
“It’s a little bit like a jigsaw puzzle,” said Marc Ryan, an associate athletics director at Minnesota who works on sched­uling. 
Sometimes, finalizing agree­ments with other schools can take up to a year to complete, juggling dates and working out payments. Minnesota, for example, has a parking ar­rangement at the nearby State Fairgrounds for home games through 2012, preventing the Gophers from playing on Labor Day weekend on campus for the first four years of TCF Bank Stadium. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Everyone on campus is getting cheap eats, 
movie tickets, 
2 for 1’s and FREE stuff. Get yours too. 
TEXT IRISH1 to 99000 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you 
love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
WANTED 
Need two people to help at our Notre Dame Tailgate vs. Michigan State *Grilling Burgers, Tent setup, etc.    
(Must be 21 years old) 
*Pay: $15 per hour, 11a-3p, this Saturday, September 17th 
*If interested: Please call Mark (847-770-7867) ADOPTION: ND/SMC family hoping to adopt again. 

Love, opportunity, security, devoted dad, at-home mom. 
No pressure or commitment. We work with Adoption professionals who can vouch for home study and FBI clearance checks. 
Contact Atty:Steven Kirsh (800)333-5736, or feel free to e-mail us directly: eneadoptagain@ gmail.com Facebook.com/ adoptionEJEllen 
TEXT or CALL: 317.473.7635 
TICKETS 
BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ ANY GAMES 
- GAs only.
 Call 574-277-1659 
FOR RENT 
Newly renovated 5BR home half mile from campus. 
Great weekend rental for all home games, JPW, graduation. 
Call 574-250-2600 

NBA 

Players, owners split on salary cap at latest labor meeting 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The start of the NBA season was thrown into doubt Tuesday after players and owners remained divided over the salary cap structure at a key labor meeting. 
Tentative plans to talk again Wednesday were scrapped, and no further sessions were sched­uled. 
Union executive director Billy Hunter said players were pre­pared to make a “significant” fi­nancial move, but found owners unwilling to budge off their posi­tions. Commissioner David Stern and Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver countered that the union in­sisted the current cap remain ex­actly as is before they would agree to any further discussions. 
A sign of how the day went: Own­ers spent the majority of about five hours of behind closed doors cau­cusing among themselves. 
Union president Derek Fisher of the Lakers said he will tell players that “the way it looks right now we may not start on time.” 
Fisher added that “we can’t find a place with the league and our owners where we can reach a deal sooner rather than later.” 
After three meetings among small groups in the last two weeks, full bargaining commit­tees returned to the table Tuesday. They could have also met Wednes­day, but Stern said it was best the two sides step away and meet with their own membership groups on Thursday. 
Though owners are seeking an overhaul of the league’s financial system after saying they lost $300 million last season, the salary cap appears to have emerged as the biggest obstacle to a new deal. 
The current soft cap system al­lows teams to exceed the ceiling through the use of various ex­ceptions if they are willing to pay a luxury tax, giving big-market teams such as the Lakers — who can take on added payroll — an advantage over the little guys. 

But Hunter said a hard cap is “highly untenable,” referring to it as a “blood issue” to the players. Stern said players wouldn’t negoti­ate without first getting a guaran­tee from the league that it would concede on the salary cap. 
“All of the owners were com­pletely unified in the view that we needed a system that at the end of the day allowed 30 teams to com­pete,” Stern said. 

MLB 

Carpenter signs contract to stay with Cardinals 
MLB 

Ramirez charged with battery 


Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Chris Car­penter never wanted to leave St. Louis. The Cardinals never wanted to see the former Cy Young Award winner go. 
Still, there were moments this season, as the months passed and his club option for 2012 loomed, when the veteran right-hander wondered if he was a part of the team’s future. 
“As the year went on it was definitely a concern,” Carpenter said. 
Not anymore. 
Carpenter signed a $21 mil­lion, two-year contract with the Cardinals on Tuesday that will keep him around until at least 2013. 
“We believe with him and Adam Wainwright we do have that 1-2 punch that we were so hopeful for this year and are glad it can be something we look for­ward to for 2012 and ‘13,” gener­al manager John Mozeliak said. 
The 36-year-old Carpenter said he feels “great” as he nears the end of an uneven season for both himself and the team. He entered Tuesday night’s start against Pittsburgh at 9-9 with a 
3.75 ERA as the Cardinals try to stay in the playoff picture. 
St. Louis began the day 4½ games behind Atlanta in the wild-card race and 6½ games in back of Milwaukee in the NL Central and 
“There’s all kinds of things that happened this year that kind of shuffled things around,” Carpen­ter said. “I like the way the team continued to play and continues to compete [but] we could never get on that roll.” 
Time is running out to make something happen this year, though Carpenter remains op­timistic about the future. Wain­wright, who missed the entire season after undergoing Tommy John surgery, will be back next spring and Carpenter is doing his part to make sure the team has money to retain core players. 
The new contract frees up some money next year, giving the team some wiggle room as it tries to re-sign first baseman Albert Pujols. Mozeliak said ne­gotiations between the club and its superstar have not resumed but believes Carpenter’s signing is the first step in the process of keeping Pujols. 
“Clearly getting Chris Carpen­ter done puts an exclamation point on our rotation for 2012 and we can start setting our sights on other objectives,” Moze­liak said. 
Carpenter didn’t rule out play­ing beyond 2013 but stressed it’s important for him to remain with St. Louis. The three-time All-Star is 93-42 in his nine sea­sons with the club and is fourth on the team’s all-time strikeout list. 
It’s heady company for a player who has struggled to stay off the disabled list since winning the 2005 NL Cy Young Award. 
He missed most of the 2007 and 2008 seasons with a series of arm injuries. He had bone spurs removed from his pitching elbow in May 2007 and had re­constructive elbow surgery that July, sidelining him until July 2008. A nerve in his right elbow was transposed in December 2008. 
Carpenter rebounded with a sterling 2009 in which he went 17-4 and posted an NL-leading 
2.24 ERA. He went 16-9 last season but hasn’t been quite as sharp this summer, though he’s coming off an impressive four-hit shutout win over Milwaukee that manager Tony La Russa called one of the best performances he’s seen all season. 
While allowing every season is different, Carpenter is confident he can be effective well into the future. 
“I believe I can be better than I was this year, try and be more consistent,” he said. “If I’m healthy, I’m going to be fine.” 
Carpenter is 142-92 with a 
3.79 ERA in 14 seasons with the Toronto Blue Jays and the Cardi­nals. 
Closer to the end of his career than the beginning, Carpenter is well aware of the company he’s keeping. 
“The whole time I’ve been here, there have been a lot of re­ferrals to ‘the last guy to do this is Bob Gibson,’” Carpenter said. “I’m not Bob Gibson but ... [hope­fully] when my career is over, people look back and say even though [I wasn’t] Bob Gibson, Chris Carpenter was a big part of this tradition.” 
Associated Press 

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Former World Series MVP Man­ny Ramirez, a colorful slugger who abruptly retired this year amid allegations of banned sub­stance use, is now facing crimi­nal prosecution on charges that he slapped his wife during an argument. 
Ramirez, 39, could get up to a year in jail if convicted of misde­meanor domestic battery charg­es. He was released on $2,500 bail Tuesday after spending the night in the Broward County Jail, with little to say to a knot of waiting reporters. 
“No thanks,” Ramirez said when asked for comment. “Let me see, where’s my family?” 
Ramirez hopped into a white Cadillac Escalade driven by his sister and was whisked away. A few minutes earlier, the Bro-ward Sheriff’s Office released a tape of the 911 call made by his wife, 32-year-old Juliana Ramirez, from their sprawling home in the Ft. Lauderdale sub­urb of Weston. 
“My husband just hit me,” Ju­liana Ramirez says calmly on the tape. 
When the dispatcher asks where she was struck, Juliana replies, “My face and my head, in the bed. I have a bump on my head.” 
The dispatcher then asks if Juliana has a safe room to get away from her husband. 
“He’s not doing anything any­more because he knows I’m call­ing the police,” she says. Later, Juliana told sheriff’s deputies she called 911 because she was afraid the situation would esca­late. 
At a brief court appearance Tuesday, Ramirez was ordered to have no direct contact with his wife by County Judge John Hur­ley. An attorney who attended the hearing on his behalf did not immediately respond Tuesday to an email requesting comment. 
After his release, Ramirez walked out of the jail alone and was confronted by reporters. He had told investigators only that he grabbed his wife by the shoulders during an argument and “shrugged” her, causing her to hit her head on the headboard of their bed. But he wouldn’t dis­cuss the incident Tuesday. 
When a reporter said “You have to give us something,” Ramirez replied: “Not my prob­lem.” 
He spoke to another TV re­porter in Spanish and put his arm around two of the female reporters. He was wearing a tight, muscle-showing T-shirt and dark, low-slung pants. 
The Escalade’s driver, who identified herself as his sister, spoke briefly. 
“He’s my brother; we love him no matter what. He’s an amaz­ing guy and we love him no mat­ter what,” she said before rolling up the window. She refused to give her name. 
Ramirez retired in April from the Tampa Bay Rays after he tested positive for a perfor­mance-enhancing substance. Rather than face a 100-game suspension for a second viola­tion of Major League Baseball’s drug policy, the 12-time All-Star left the game. 
Ramirez previously served a 50-game ban in 2009 with the Los Angeles Dodgers. Second-time offenders get double that penalty. 
One of the game’s great slug­gers, Ramirez was named MVP of the World Series in 2004 and helped the Boston Red Sox end an 86-year title drought. 
He was selected 13th over­all by the Cleveland Indians in the 1991 amateur draft out of New York City and rose quickly through the minor leagues with youthful exuberance and natu­ral charisma. 
He broke into the majors in 1993 and played his first full season the following year, when he finished second to the Royals’ Bob Hamlin in voting for Rookie of the Year. Ramirez went on to establish himself as one of the game’s most feared hitters, adopting a dreadlock hairdo that seemed to mirror his hap­py-go-lucky demeanor. 
He signed with the Red Sox as a free agent in December 2000, helping the long-suffering fran­chise win the World Series a few years later, then doing it again in 2007. 
The Red Sox traded him to the Dodgers in July 2008. He in­stantly became a fan favorite on the West Coast, with “Manny­wood” signs popping up around town, as he led Los Angeles to the NL West title and a sweep of the Chicago Cubs in the playoffs. The clutch performances earned Ramirez a $45 million, two-year contract. 
All that goodwill fizzled the following May, when Ramirez tested positive for human cho­rionic gonadotropin, a banned female fertility drug often used to help mask steroid use. 


UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 
AC Milan ties Barcelona with stoppage time goal 
Associated Press under goalkeeper Victor Val-lapse in the Greek defense, des after dashing through meeting Jeremy Morel’s cross 
LONDON — Barcelona con-Barcelona’s half. before beating former Riv-ceded a goal after 24 seconds A determined Lionel Messi er Plate teammate Franco and another in stoppage time led the Spanish champions’ Costanzo in the Olympiakos as its Champions League title response as the Argentina goal. defense opened with a 2-2 forward created Pedro Rodri-At Stamford Bridge, Fer-draw against AC Milan on guez’s 36th-minute equalizer nando Torres continued his Tuesday, while Arsenal was before David Villa curled a goal drought for Chelsea this also left stunned by Borussia long-range free kick into the season but set up both goals. Dortmund’s late equalizer. net five minutes into the sec-David Luiz ran onto Tor-
Alexandre Pato opened the ond half. res’ layoff before bending a scoring for Milan and, after “We could have played bet-sublime strike into the bot-goals from Pedro Rodriguez ter after Barcelona took the tom corner of the net midway and David Villa looked to lead,” AC Milan coach Massi-through the second half. have put Barcelona in control, miliano Allegri said. “But I’m And after Torres broke Thiago Silva’s header secured happy because the team did down the left flank, Juan a point in Group H. not collapse until we found Mata tapped home the second 
Dortmund leveled in the the late equalizer.” with almost the last kick of 88th minute, with Ivan Peris-That came deep into stop-the game. ic’s volley canceling out Robin page time when Thiago leapt Chelsea is top of Group E van Persie’s first-half goal for high to meet Clarence Seed-after Racing Genk draw 0-0 Arsenal in the 1-1 draw in orf’s corner to secure a point with Valencia in the other Group F. for Milan. match. 
Chelsea manager Andre “We did all we were sup-There were two victories in Villas-Boas oversaw a 2-0 vic-posed to do but we are still left Group G—both with 2-1 score­tory over Bayer Leverkusen in with this bitter taste,” Barce-lines. Group E in his first Champi-lona coach Guardiola said. And at Porto’s Stadium of ons League match, while his All four teams in Group H the Dragon, all the goals came former club Porto recovered are on one point after BATE from Brazilians. to beat nine-man Shakhtar Borisov and Viktoria Plzen Porto goalkeeper Helton Donetsk 2-1 in Group G. drew 1-1. gifted Shakhtar the lead af-
While Porto won the Europa In Germany, Arsenal went ter 12 minutes, failing to hold League in May, Barcelona lift-in front just before halftime Willian’s weak shot from out­ed the European Cup for the when Van Persie won posses-side the area and spilling the second time in three years. sion from Sebastian Kehl and ball for Luiz Adriano to tap in. 
The Wembley Stadium tri-played a one-two with Theo But striker Hulk equal­umph cemented Barcelona’s Walcott before beating Dort-ized for Porto directly from a status as world football’s su-mund goalkeeper Roman Wei-free kick just before the half perpower and Pep Guardio-denfeller with his shot. hour and Kleber latched onto la’s side is favorite to become But after Marcel Schmel-James Rodriguez’s cross to European champions for the zer’s free kick was only half-poke in the host’s winner six fifth time in May. cleared by Kieran Gibbs to-minutes after half time. 
But the script went against ward the end, Ivan Perisic Shakhtar lost left back them at the Nou Camp on volleyed in a late equalizer. Yaroslav Rakitskiy just before Tuesday against a Milan side The draw enabled Marseille half time for a studs-up chal­missing Zlatan Ibrahimovic to go top of the group after lenge on Joao Moutinho and and Robinho to injury. Lucho Gonzalez secured a 1-0 center back Dmytro Chygryn-

Just 24 seconds had elapsed victory over Olympiakos. skiy was shown his second when Pato coolly slid the ball The Argentine exploited a yellow card in the 80th. 
Associated Press The NCAA’s only additional stipulation was that the play-
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Just in ers pay $200 to another char-time for its first road game of ity. the season, No. 17 Ohio State “The university appreci­got some good news for a ates the NCAA’s expeditious change. response in reinstating these 
The NCAA reinstated three three student-athletes,” Ohio Buckeyes players on Tuesday State athletic director Gene who were suspended for tak-Smith said in a statement. ing envelopes with $200 cash The three were suspended from a university booster at a just two days before the open-charity event earlier this year. er against Akron. Last week, 
Tailback Jordan Hall and interim coach Luke Fickell cornerback Travis Howard, said they would be permitted tabbed as starters for the to play in Ohio State’s second Buckeyes in the preseason, game against Toledo, but the along with backup safety Corey NCAA on Friday afternoon “Pittsburgh“ Brown, were sus-said it still was looking into pended two games for violat-the case. ing NCAA rules by taking the The NCAA confirmed on improper benefits at an event Monday that it sent questions in suburban Cleveland in Feb-to Ohio State concerning the ruary. three players. 
Ohio State (2-0) is girding up Earlier on Tuesday, Fickell to play at Miami on Saturday. said his team was in limbo 
“It’s always good, because when it came to the status of these are all your brothers,” the three players. linebacker Etienne Sabino said “Right now we’re just … soon after the news spread of waiting. We’re not going to the reinstatements. make any jumps to conclu­
“These guys you go to camp sions,” Fickell said. “We’ll wait with, we work out all year long, and see and hopefully we’ll we hang out off the field. You’re hear something soon.” happy for them and you’re hap-The reinstatement of the py they’re going to be out there three players adds much-need­with you. It’s exciting.” ed depth to the Buckeyes. 


NBA 

Timberwolves land new head coach in Adelman 




Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Even with a lockout firmly in place across the NBA, the Minnesota Tim­berwolves have still managed to land one of the biggest free agents on the market. 
The team announced on Tues­day that it has an agreement in principle with Rick Adelman to make one of the game’s great offensive minds its next head coach. An introductory news conference will be held once the contract is signed, but schedul­ing conflicts mean that is un­likely to happen this week. 
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed, but there is no doubt that Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor had to dig deep into his billionaire pocketbook to land a coach who is eighth on the ca­reer victories list. The 65-year­old Adelman is 945-616 in 20 seasons as coach of the Trail Blazers, Kings, Warriors and Rockets. 
Adelman and the Rockets parted ways in April after his four-year, $16.25 million con­tract expired. It likely took quite a bit more to convince a coach who has led a team to the play­offs in 16 of his 20 seasons on the bench to take over a young group that is 32-132 in the past two years. 
In doing so, Taylor delivered an emphatic statement to any fans who may have doubted his commitment to getting things turned around in Minnesota, especially considering he still owes the fired Kurt Rambis $4 million over the final two years of his contract. 
Adelman led the Blazers to the NBA Finals in 1990 and 1992 and has gained a reputation over two decades in the league as a coach who gets the most out of the roster he’s given. 
He replaces Rambis, who was given just two years as president of basketball operations David Kahn’s first coaching hire. 
Kahn clashed with Rambis over the team’s pace of play, pushing for a faster, more free-flowing game while Rambis in­sisted that the players were too young to handle such responsi­bility. 
Now it will be up to Adelman to try to harness the energy of the youngest team in the league and get the players to focus on being more consistent and pro­fessional night-in and night-out. 
He has a promising nucleus to work with in All-Star forward Kevin Love, No. 2 overall draft choice Derrick Williams, Span­ish import Ricky Rubio and gift­ed scorer Michael Beasley. 
So the question becomes, does Adelman have the patience to teach Rubio the NBA game, put up with Beasley’s hijinks both on and off the court and figure out a way to find enough playing time for Williams, Beasley, Wes Johnson and Martell Webster, all of whom have similar skill sets. 
Like most coaches, Adelman has enjoyed his greatest suc­cesses on veteran-laden teams. And at 65, conventional wisdom was that he would wait for a job that included a more expe­rienced roster who was consid­ered closer to contending for the championship that has eluded him all these years. 
But he has a good relationship with Love, the face of the fran­chise who played high school ball with Adelman’s son in Or­egon. The versatile power for­ward seems to be an ideal fit for the high post in Adelman’s of­fense, which has utilized nifty-passing, sharp-shooting big men like Vlade Divac, Chris Webber and Jerome Kersey to great ef­fect. 
There is no doubt that Adel-man will press to add a veteran or two once the lockout is lifted 
— hard-nosed Houston forward Chuck Hayes, perhaps? — to show the young pups how to be pros. 
ATP 

Djokovic eyes titles, acting career 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Novak Djokov­ic is ranked No. 1 and is 64-2 in 2011, and sees room for im­provement. 
He won three of the four Grand Slam titles this year—at the Australian Open, Wimble­don and U.S. Open—and is talk­ing about adding to his collec­tion. 
“There is a lot more to prove, a lot more tournaments to win,” Djokovic told reporters at the Empire State Building on Tues­day, a day after he beat Rafael Nadal in the final at Flushing Meadows. 
And that’s not all: Djokovic gained plenty of attention for his spot-on impersonations of other players (Nadal,Andy Roddick and Maria Sharapova, among others), and now he wants to pursue acting. 
“Yeah. Why not? I might do something if I have time soon. And I would like to. I just think show business is something that attracts me, that I really like watching, that I like being a part of. It’s part of my per­sonality,” Djokovic said after making the rounds to various morning talk shows with a cou­ple of days’ worth of stubble on his face and the benefit of about three hours’ worth of sleep. 
The 24-year-old from Serbia didn’t provide details or indi­cate whether he’d like to wind up on TV or in a movie; he did say he already has a couple of offers to consider. 
“This the way I see things off the court. … If I embrace them, if I accept them as something that can give me energy, that can make me happy, then it all goes in a positive direction,” Djokovic said. “Or vice versa: You can say, ‘Oh, look this is taking my attention off tennis. This is negative.’ It just depends the way you look at it, and I try always to look at it in a positive way.” 
Just in case anyone might wonder how focused Djokovic is on his future as a thespian, he was sure to note: “I will not interfere that with my profes­sional life.” 
Djokovic is doing pretty well at his day job, putting together what seven-time major cham­pion John McEnroe called “the greatest year in the history of our sport, there’s no doubt about it.” 
McEnroe, by the way, went 82-3 in 1984. 
As impressive as Djokovic’s overall record is, what’s even more indicative of exactly how well he’s playing is that he is 10-1 against Nadal and Roger Federer this season. 
He overcame a two-set defi­cit, then two match points at 5-3, 40-15 in the fifth, to elimi­nate Federer in the U.S. Open semifinals Saturday, before dominating Nadal for most of the 4 hours, 10 minutes it took to complete their riveting 6-2, 6-4, 6-7 (3), 6-1 final. It’s only the second time someone beat Federer and Nadal at the same Grand Slam tournament. 
Against Nadal, Djokovic was treated by a trainer after the third set and twice more during the fourth for pain in a muscle between his ribs, an aching back and leg cramps. 
“To be honest, there was doubts in my mind after the third set,” he said Tuesday, “be­cause physically I wasn’t there. I wasn’t fresh.” 
His serve speeds dropped from around 120 mph to the 90s—“quite weak,” Djokovic called it—during the fourth set, which actually might have thrown off Nadal. 
“I guess he was a little con­fused as well—that’s what I felt—on his return games be­cause he was expecting the ball to come faster,” Djokovic explained. 
He improved to 6-0 against Nadal this year, all in tourna­ment finals, and on three dif­ferent surfaces: hard courts, clay and grass. Djokovic said those victories give him a “psy­chological advantage” against a player who preceded him at the top of the rankings and has 10 Grand Slam titles of his own. 
Djokovic is the sixth man in the 44-year Open era to win three major titles in a single season. Nadal did it in 2010; Fe­derer in 2004, 2006 and 2007. 
“Maybe this is my year. Roger had a couple of years where he was winning two or three Slams. Rafa had that last year. … God knows what’s going to be next year,” Djokovic said, shaking his head. 
Then, thinking about all that he’s accomplished and all that is to come, he chuckled as he said: “This is going to be ex­tremely hard to repeat, that’s for sure.” 




ASHLEY DACY/The Observer Irish senior Chris Walker takes a shot during the Battle at the Warren on Apr. 12. Notre Dame took first place in the tournament. 
PGA 
continued from page 20 
make them ineligible by NCAA rules. But that doesn’t prevent them from playing in major PGA and international tournaments. 
Even if a college amateur were somehow able to win a major tournament like the U.S. Open, he or she would not be able to take home the million-dollar prize without losing his amateur status and NCAA eligibility. 
“[Senior] Chris Walker made it through the local U.S. Open quali­fying tournament before advanc­ing to sectionals, which is one step away from the big tourna­ment,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “You can play in any tourna­ment, as long as you don’t accept their money.” 
Kubinski believes that profes­sional golfer status isn’t just for anyone, even the most skilled golfers, because of other elements that factor into the world of a pro­fessional golfer. 
“When these golfers get out on their own, it’s a whole different world and everything changes,” he said. “Emotional maturity is not talked about enough. We had a great golfer in 2007 [Cole Isban] who turned pro and he tried it and just thought it wasn’t for him.” 
Heralded as the most-accom­plished player in Notre Dame golf history by Kubinski, and Isban turned pro before leaving the tour and returning to Notre Dame to receive his MBA. 
“Some people come to school to compete in golf and some come to find something else that interests them and take that head on,” Ku­binski said. 
After playing in local and state-level amateur tournaments, a golfer can turn pro if he or she can play consistently at the high­est-level, or just good enough to offset entrance fees and still make a sizable profit. Even so, only the world’s best 200 golfers are admitted to the PGA Tour. 

“A good way to start is to play the mini-tours before heading to qualification school where you are basically sorted out,” Scodro said. 
Major mini-tours include the eGolf Professional Tour, the Gate­way Tour and the NGA Hooters Tour, where new professional golfers are able to gain experi­ence while still playing at a highly competitive venue. 
After mini-tours, golfers can advance to the PGA Qualifying Tournament, or Q-school. Q-school consists of a three-round tournament, preceded by a pre­qualifying round, where anyone who wants to join the PGA Tour can compete. The top 25 golfers of the tournament earns a PGA Tour card while anyone else who ad­vances to the tournament’s final round is eligible to play in the Na­tionwide Tour — the PGA Tour’s second-tier. 
Meanwhile, to remain on the PGA Tour, a golfer must be in the top-125 on the PGA money list at the end of the season to keep the tour card. But the PGA Tour cre­ates a new world for the golfer psyche, something that Scodro is well aware of. 
“I definitely would like to go pro, but I’ll see how the season goes and weigh my options,” Scodro said. “You go from travel­ing with your team and coaches to living life by yourself. I am from Chicago, so I would have to move to a warmer place like Florida or Arizona to play profes­sionally. It’s a lonely battle and it asks a lot of you in terms of giving up so much.” 
But Kubinski is confident that Scodro will be able to overcome these obstacles once he gradu­ates. 
“Max has the right disposition and he has what it takes to suc­ceed at the next level,” Kubin­ski said. “It really comes down to how much fire [a potential profes­sional] has in him, and he’s defi­nitely got it.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Wednesday’s contest against 
Kuschel 

Alma will be a good indication of the improvements St. Mary’s continued from page 20 has made. “No game that we walk into we 
Kuschel is not worried about expect to win [easily],” Kuschel her team’s current standing in said. “We just take each game as the conference. Her team plays it comes and do our best.” in one of the toughest confer-The Belles will set up against ences in the nation, with Calvin the Scots tonight at 7 p.m. at the and Hope both ranked nation-Angela Athletic Facility. ally. But in the end, every team is just trying to claim one of the Contact Katie Heit at top four spots. kheit@nd.edu 
Stone 
continued from page 20 
to the team, the class also con­tributes with its intangibles. Stone said his seniors help bring the younger classes up to speed and occasionally com­municate more effectively than the coaching staff. 
“I think [the seniors] help the younger kids understand the culture of what we’re try­ing to do here,” Stone said. “Of­ten times the seniors become a bridge between the freshmen, sophomores, juniors and the coaches. Sometimes the young­er classes are more comfort­able talking to another student than a coach.” 
This communication be­tween athletes and coaches stems from the growth of a re­lationship over four years, ac­cording to Stone. He said the seniors are at ease critiquing his coaching. 
“We’ve gotten to know each other better,” Stone said of the relationship between the coaches and the seniors. “They are more comfortable talking about things we need to do dif­ferently or things we need to change.” 
Both coach and player will have to rely on this bond as the Irish look to win their ninth straight Big East title this sea­son. The hunt begins Sunday as Notre Dame takes on Michi­gan, Michigan State and East­ern Michigan in Ann Arbor. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Joyce 
continued from page 20 
and their improvement in the last year have inspired opti­mism in their coach. 
“We played well against Olivet last year and came up short on the scoreboard, so we know it is a team we can compete with and are pushing hard to be on the right side of the score line,” Joyce said. “We are confident from our victo­ries, but the disappointment from last season is still fresh in our minds, so we should be highly motivated.” 
Despite Olivet’s victory last season, the Comets will not carry the same swagger from last fall when they came to St. Mary’s with a 12-3-2 record. 
The Comets have lost all four of their contests so far this season by a combined score of 19-3, including a 7-1 loss to Case Western Reserve on Sat­urday. Still, the Belles are de­termined not to overlook their opponent. 
“They haven’t won a game yet in their [pre-MIAA] sea­son, but have played some very tough competition, so we’ve got to come out strong and fight every minute of the game for the result,” Joyce said. 
Although Saint Mary’s earned consecutive victo­ries to open the season, Joyce would still like to see improve­ment from his team. 
“I’m always looking for us to push the quality of our play,” Joyce said. “Some of the turn­overs we’ve had in our non-conference games could cost us against tough conference opponents.” 
The Belles and Comets will take the field at 5 p.m. Wednes­day at St. Mary’s Soccer Field. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Kelly 
continued from page 20 
ball.” 
Kelly specifically pointed out Dantonio’s meticulousness and insistence on toughness as attri­butes that have trickled down to the Michigan State players. 
“He demands discipline, [and] attention to detail,” Kelly said. “He demands all those things on a day-to-day basis . a toughness to his football team. He wants them mentally and physical tough … I know Mark does a great job in at­tention to those specific areas.” 
Coming off a difficult loss, the Irish (0-2) are using their past fail­ures as motivation for a difficult test. 
“They’re not pleased with their performance,” Kelly said. “They’re not happy where they’re at. The coaches are not pleased with our performance.” 
Kelly believes his team is better than its record indicates, mainly because self-inflicted mistakes have cost Notre Dame each of its first two contests. 
“I tell them this: I said, ‘I re­ally believe that you haven’t won a game yet, but you haven’t been beaten,’” Kelly said. “Last year we were beaten. We got beat by Michi­gan last year. As much as I don’t like to say it, they beat us last year. 

“We’ve really had a hand at beating ourselves, and that’s the big difference. If we do not beat ourselves, we’ve got a chance to be the kind of football team that we all believe we can be. I can see it.” 
Kelly pointed to turnovers as the most important mistake for the Irish to fix. While his team ranks in the top-10 nationally in terms of yardage gained on offense, turn­overs have cost Notre Dame points in each of its first two contests. 
“The one stat that really matters to me is the turnover takeaway, and there’s a direct correlation to percentage of winning when you turn the ball over,” Kelly said. “There’s no stat for me that tells the story more than that.” 
Tight end situation resolved 

Last week at Michigan, Notre Dame was shorthanded at the tight end position behind sopho­more starter Tyler Eifert. This week, two tight ends will return to bolster the depth chart. 
“Alex Welch is cleared to prac­tice and compete, [and] Jake Golic has been cleared to practice and compete,” Kelly said. “We do get a couple of tight ends back.” 


The return of Welch and Golic is tempered by the loss of fifth-year senior Mike Ragone, who has been lost for the season due to upcom­ing ACL surgery. 
“I’m pretty disappointed for him. He’s been a warrior for us in a sense,” Kelly said. “He’s battled through a lot of injuries. He loves to play the game. He loves competi­tion, and we’re really going to miss him. He’ll still be around our foot­ball team. He’s going to help men­tor some of our younger players.” 
Freshman tight end Ben Koyack filled in late during Saturday’s loss, and Kelly was impressed by his ef­fort. 
“All in all, he did a nice job. He’s a kid that’s not rattled,” Kelly said. “I really love his demeanor. First time we put him on the field he didn’t have that look that some­times you’re concerned about. I think Ben is going to be fine for us.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER AND KELLy LyNCH 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, September 14, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Ready for battle 
Irish still seek first win, excited to face Spartans 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
After his team lost in heart­breaking fashion at Michigan last Saturday, Irish coach Brian Kelly knows Notre Dame will not benefit from any reprieve this week as it pursues the elusive first win of the season. 
“After playing in front of 114,000 in a very difficult environment, our guys get another challenge which they’re looking forward to, and that is playing Michigan State,” Kelly said. “We’re excited about the chal­lenge against Michigan State. Ev­erybody is looking forward to play­ing the Big Ten champs.” 
Mark Dantonio, Kelly’s predeces­sor at Cincinnati, coaches the Spar­tans (2-0), and thus Kelly has some familiarity with the Spartans’ style of play beyond the two games he has coached against them. 
“I know how [Dantonio] coach­es his football team. They’re well coached,” Kelly said. “They’re a physical team on both sides of the 
see KELLY/page 18 


ROWING 

Youthful Irish learn from small senior class 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
With a group of 45 athletes plus a five-person staff, wom­en’s rowing boasts one of the largest rosters in the Notre Dame athletic department. Of those 45, however, only five will graduate in the spring. 
Though unusually small in number, the senior class makes up for its lack of size with tal­ent and leadership. Irish coach Martin Stone said he expects the seniors to make a major contribution to the squad this year. 
“It’s unusual to have such a small senior class,” he said. “The last few years we’ve had big senior classes. When it’s only one class you can get away with having fewer people. Plus, the seniors this year are really solid.” 
The seniors — Valeria Brencher, Ching-Ting Hwang, Morgan Kelley, Erin McCon­nell and Katie Suyo — have all played major roles in Notre Dame’s success the past few seasons. During their respec­tive careers, all have won rac­es as members of either the varsity eight or varsity four shells. 
Stone said Hwang was one of the best varsity fours in the country last spring. He added the Irish will count on the se­niors this season as well. 
“All five of [the seniors] com­peted for us last year and I expect them to row well this season,” Stone said. “Mor­gan suffered an accident last fall that kept her from training for about two-and­a-half months, but since she’s been back she has posted some pretty good numbers. [Ching-Ting] is super fit, and Valerie has put up some pretty good power numbers.” 
In addition to the experi­ence the five seniors bring 
see STONE/page 18 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles ready for MIAA rival Alma 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s is set for a tough match against conference rival Alma Wednesday. 
The Belles (2-5, 1-2 MIAA) are looking to improve their MIAA record against Alma (5-2, 2-1). The Scots have traditionally proved to be tough conference competition, and this year is no different, Belles coach Toni Kus­chel said. 
“There’s no easy win in our conference,” Kuschel said. “Al­ma’s typically in the top four teams. We’re all just trying to get into the final tournament.” 
The Belles have gotten off to a slow start with a conference record of 1-2, but Kuschel said they have a chance every time they step onto the court. 
“It’s still early in the season,” Kuschel said. “We still have a lot of room to improve.” 
Despite the tough losses, Kus­chel said she is proud of the progress her young team has made thus far. 
“We set well,” Kuschel said. “Our serves have been great so far and we hit really well. One thing we need to improve on is having our setter really run our offense well.” 
Kuschel cited the leadership of the seniors as a key factor in the positive morale of her play­ers. While she has no complaints about her team’s spirit, Kuschel knows that her team has a few areas it needs to improve upon before its matchup against the Scots. 
“Our middle has been consis­tent and we need to keep that up,” Kuschel said, “but our out­side hitters definitely need to score more. We definitely need to do a better job of capitalizing on our opportunities.” 
see KUSCHEL/page 17 
MEN’S GOLF 

Road to PGA Tour runs rigid 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
The road to the PGA tour can be a drawn-out one. It’s not as simple as going into a draft and definitely not as easy as Happy Gilmore made it look when he won one tournament before tak­ing on Hollywood’s equivalent of the Masters. 
“If you win the right tourna­ment, I guess it could work out that way, but it’s almost always more advanced than that,” senior Max Scodro said. 
College golfers are considered to have amateur status, meaning that they cannot take prize mon­ey in tournaments since it would 
see PGA/page 17 

SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s hunts for conference win 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Belles will be search­ing for their first win in a con­ference opener since 2007 as they kick off the MIAA sea­son at home against Olivet on Wednesday. 
Although the Belles (4-0) have struggled in conference play in recent years, includ­ing an eighth place finish last year with a 1-7 confer­ence record, their explosive start has given the team con­fidence as it enters the most important part of the sched­ule. 
“We weren’t happy with our conference finish last year,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “We’re excited to come out and continue our preseason success and start climbing our way up the con­ference standings.” 
The Belles still possess a perfect record after four matches and have outscored their opponents 13-1. They narrowly lost 2-1 to Olivet (0­
4) late last season, but their competitiveness in that game 
see JOYCE/page 18 





