
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Development to provide luxury student housing 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
A new condominium-style de­velopment on Notre Dame Avenue will be the latest in a string of luxury off-campus student housing complexes around the University’s perimeter. 
Darby Row, a project by Holla­day Construction Group, is set for completion in June 2012. 
Doug Hunt, a 1967 Notre Dame graduate and senior partner at Holladay Construction Group, said the firm is focused on providing a small-scale, quality residence complex aimed at students. 
“It’s about quality, not quantity,” Hunt said. “This is a high-end con­do development with 35 total bed­rooms — 16 two-bedroom units and three one-bedroom [units]. The primary target for our devel­opment is undergrads, but there are no restrictions.” 
Hunt said Darby Row would have a distinct layout. Each two-bedroom apartment will share a common area with another two-bedroom apartment in the devel­opment. 
“There’s a common area with a living room, kitchen, washer, dryer, then there’s stairs down to two bedrooms — basically a gar­den apartment — and stairs up to another two bedrooms,” he said. “Each [pair of bedrooms] is tech­nically an apartment under the city code, but really the idea is that the common area will be shared by two pairs of bedrooms ... four students in four bedrooms with a common area.” 

Monthly rent for the two-bed­room units will start at $725 per bedroom, Hunt said, and three sin­gle-bedroom apartments will be offered at $895. Leases will be for 12 months, but Hunt said tenants would most likely be able to sublet for the summer. 
While more expensive than oth­er off-campus options, Hunt said Darby Row apartments would have excellent amenities and features. 
“They’re going to be well-fur­

see DARBY/page 5 

MATT SAAD/The Observer 
Construction occurs on the Darby Row off-campus student housing complex. The development is set for completion in June 2012. 


Notre Dame, SMC celebrate International Education Week 
Week’s events honor foreign cultures in University community 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
International and domestic students can celebrate their cultures together during Inter­national Education Week (IEW), sponsored by the International Student Services and Activities (ISSA) this week. 
McKenna Pensak, assistant director of communications and outreach for ISSA, said the nation-wide initiative brings dif­ferent communities and cultures together. 
see ISSA/page 5 



Saint Mary’s promotes international culture, abroad programs 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s will promote both international culture and study abroad opportunities this week as part of International Education Week (IEW), an annual program celebrated at colleges across the nation. 
The Center for Women’s Inter-cultural Leadership (CWIL) and Department of Modern Languages will co-sponsor the week’s events, which began Monday with several lectures and a French dinner. 
see CULTURE/page 5 


Indiana Supreme Court justices hear case at Law School 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Five Indiana Supreme Court justices visited campus Monday to hear arguments for a case on their docket, swapping their regular location in Indianapolis for the Eck Hall of Law’s Patrick F. McCartan Courtroom. 
Kath­ryn Dolan, public in­formation officer for the Indiana Supreme Court, said the justices typically hear cases in other parts of the state sev-eral times a year. 

“The Court traditionally goes on the road a couple times a year to here oral arguments in places other than Indianapolis,” Dolan said. “The goal behind it is to allow the press and public and students the opportunity to see the court at work.” 
The justices heard the argu­ments for Jerrme Damar Cart­wright v. State of Indiana in which Cartwright was convict­ed of attempted battery with a deadly weapon, attempted ag­gravated battery and posses­sion of a handgun by a felon. The Indiana Court of Appeals overturned his original convic­tion due to alleged unfair jury selection. 
The case was open to the pub­lic to sit in on the arguments and afterwards, students en­gaged in a question and answer session with Chief Justice Ran­dall Shepard about the case and his work. 
“We do actually take special pleasure in the question and answer with students after the argument,” Shepard said. “There are often, as they were today, very good, very thought­ful questions about how we do our work. It gives us a chance to see people we wouldn’t nor­mally see in Indianapolis.” 
Notre Dame Law School pro­fessor Lloyd Mayer recognized the Supreme Court for hearing oral arguments outside of Indi­anapolis and around the state. 
“We want to be a place to be 
see COURT/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Architect lectures on values in design page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u “Camp” is in session page 8 u Men’s baskeball defeats Detroit 59-53 page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Tuesday, November 15, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE (OR LEAST FAVORITE) THING ABOUT THE COLD WEATHER? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Megan Doyle Molly Sammon Marisa Iati Joe Wirth Emma Russ Vicky Jacobson Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Marissa Frobes Photo Viewpoint Tom La Ren Brauweiler  

Ryan Moss  Mary Goodman  Arnav Dutt  Marina Seminatore  Tom Falkenberg  
sophomore  junior  junior  junior  sophomore  
Alumni  Lewis  St. Edward’s  Lewis  Stanford  
“The upcoming  “Getting caught  “All the free  “How long it  “Long sleeves  
ski season.”  in a snowstorm.”  umbrellas laying  takes to get  to cover the  
around.”  dressed.”  muscles.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Appearance of bison head confuses authorities 
BOULDER, Colo. — Police in Boulder, Colo., are inves­tigating how a severed bison head ended up on a decora­tive rock in someone’s front yard. 
The Denver Post reports that police quickly ruled out one obvious potential source for a bison head in Boulder: the beloved buffalo mascot named Ralphie at the Uni­versity of Colorado. 
Boulder police spokes­woman Kim Kobel says a check on Ralphie shortly af­ter the head was discovered Sunday morning showed he is OK. 
Neighbors weren’t able to provide police with ad­ditional information. They didn’t know why someone would leave a severed head at the home. 
Kobel says the case is be­ing investigated as an ani­mal cruelty case. 
Investigators are reach­ing out to local ranchers and processing plants to find the source of the head. 
Giant Georgia Christmas tree snaps due to drought 
ATLANTA — It’s the Drought That Stole Christ­mas. 
Macy’s at Atlanta’s Lenox Mall must cut down a new Christmas tree after the 60-foot white pine selected for the holidays snapped while being hoisted atop the department store Sunday morning. Melissa Goff with Macy’s said the store usu­ally selects its tree from a Georgia forest, but drought conditions have made it dif­ficult to find a healthy tree this year. 
She said the 11,000-pound tree was from Douglas County. She said a back­up tree has been selected and will be brought in this week. 
The tree will be decorated between now and Thanks­giving Day, when the store will hold a lighting ceremo­ny, a 63-year tradition. 
It’s not the first time the store has had to get a back­up tree: the 2004 tree also broke. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The fair trade retailer Ten Thousand Villages will host its annual sale of interna­tional handicrafts today from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. This year’s sale will take place in the Hesburgh Library Atri­um. The sale will continue through Friday. 
Mark Meeschaert, pro­fessor of Statistics and Probability at Michigan State, will present the next installment of the Envi­ronmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series, entitled “Fractional Calculus in Hydrology and Geophys­ics.” The lecture will take place today from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. in Room 258 in the Fitzpatrick Hall of En­gineering. 
Riley Hall will host an open house display of cur­rent undergraduate work in Ceramics, Painting, Photog­raphy, Printmaking, Sculp­ture, Industrial Design and Graphic Design. It will take place today from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Riley Hall of Design. 
The Center for Social Concerns will host an in­formational meeting for this summer’s International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) tonight from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. The meeting will take place in Room B034 in Geddes Hall. 

There will be a Catholic Charismatic prayer meet­ing tonight from 7:30 to 
8:30 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Meetings take place every Tuesday night in Alumni. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH 55 LOW 38 
HIGH 45 LOW 33 
HIGH 41 LOW 31 
HIGH 49 LOW 44 
HIGH 57 LOW 42 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY GAMEDAY 











CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Prof. speaks at Chinese conference 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Nanoscience could revolu­tionize treatments of cancer and bacterial infections, a Notre Dame professor who traveled to China for a con­ference on the subject, said. 
Dr. Sub-hash Basu, professor emerit us of chem­istry and biochem ­istry, took part in the second An­nual World Cong ress of Nano­medicine in Shenzen, China, from Nov. 3 to 5. 
“It was a very important meeting,” Basu said. “This is the age of nanomedicine.” 
Basu, who is also the founding president of the Cancer Drug Delivery Re­search Foundation (CDDRF), said the conference offered a range of research by scien­tists from all over the world. 
“There were 200 [to] 300 people at the conference, all talking about [various as­pects] of nanoscience,” he said. 
At the conference, Basu presented a talk on biosen­sors, the subject of his re­search for over 10 years. 
“Biosensors are a conve­nient and efficient means of detecting pathogenic bacte­rial strains,” he said. 
In his conference abstract, Basu wrote that infectious disease is now the world’s leading cause of premature death and the third overall cause behind cardiovascular disease and cancer. 


“This quick quantifica­tion and identification of the bacteria for binding with its specific antibodies, un­der specific optimal binding conditions, would provide quick treatment of the pa­tients with proper antibiot­ics or other bacteria-killing drugs as soon as possible,” he said. 
He said the use of biosen­sors in medicine could save lives because biosensors can quickly detect the type of pathogenic bacteria in infec­tions. 
“If anybody’s kidney is in­fected, they take a sample of urine and it might take a day, or two days in conventional ways … the bacteria usually doubles every 10 minutes. If there are two bacteria today, tomorrow the whole blad­der is full of bacteria,” Basu said. “So if we can devise something which can detect the specific bacteria in five minutes, it saves the life of the patient.” 
The theme of this year’s conference was “bridging the gap between engineers and doctors,” according to the conference website. 
Basu said the theme of his specific talk focused on how nano-biosensors can be used to detect pathogenic bacte­ria. His future goal, howev­er, is to determine how these nano-biosensors could be used to help cure cancer. 
This research will contin­ue at the CDDRF, which Basu said would officially open in the spring of 2012. The new lab will be equipped with all the instruments from his Notre Dame lab, which were donated to the CDDRF by the University. 
“We expect to find rental space for this new lab near the Notre Dame campus,” Basu said. 
The CDDRF is listed as nonprofit foundation, inde­pendent of Notre Dame. 
Charity foundations and national agencies would fund the lab, Basu said. 
“The goal of this CDDRF is to take patents on the new potential cancer drugs and their delivery in the patients in non-toxic doses, perhaps through nanoparticles,” Basu said. “Nano-biosen­sors could be used for quick detection of pathogenic bac­teria or cancer cells in the human body.” 
He said nanomaterials could be used for drug de­livery in the human system of cancer patients. 
“For our future research we are going towards appli­cation of nano-materials in drug delivery in our CDDRF laboratory, and will be ap­plying for many patents,” he said. 
Basu began teaching at Notre Dame in 1970 and became a professor emeri­tus in May 2011. Now that he has retired from teach­ing, Basu said he now has more time to devote to his research. 
He said the ultimate goal of his research is the target­ed delivery of anti-cancer drugs on a nontoxic level. 
“Our ultimate goal is to establish this CDDRF labo­ratory as a world center for cancer drug delivery re­search,” Basu said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at                  sfelsens@nd.edu 
Architect lectures on values in U.S. design 
By VICKY MORENO 
News Writer 
A rekindling of American val­ues in American architectural design is needed, an architect for the government’s public build­ings said in a lecture at Bond Hall on Monday. 
Architect Robert Peck, com­missioner for the Public Buildings Service at the General Service Administration (GSA) and recipi­ent of the Notre Dame School of Architecture’s Henry Hope Reed Award in March 2011, focused on the exceptional aspects of archi­tecture found in the U.S. 
“At the end of the day, I have to ask myself, what is unique about public buildings in America?” Peck said. 
Peck drew on his personal his­tory to explain the connection be­tween American values and the country’s public buildings. 
“My father was the son of im­migrants,” Peck said. “He was poor as they came. In fact, he and his siblings used to take turns on who got to sleep in a bed and who had to push together a couple of chairs to make-shift a bed.” 
Peck said his father found ref­uge in the New York’s public buildings. 
“But my father could walk into the New York Public Library and sit in its astonishing Reading Room, a room that is widely re­garded as one of architecture’s greatest successes, without hesi­tation,” Peck said. “You don’t have to be a monarch in America to be in a room worthy of a monarch. In America those spaces belong to you. That day, my father be­came an American.” 
The idea of a national connec­tion to public buildings drives his work, Peck said. 
“I believe in the power public architecture and space have to dictate a cultural attitude,” Peck said. “Every design should be done with a purpose. You can see that in Washington [D.C.], where the Capitol and the White House sit at opposite ends of the (Na­tional) Mall, connecting the two most powerful branches of gov­ernment.” 
Courthouses, part of the judi­cial branch of government, are typically constructed with intri­cate details and grandeur to em­phasize the majesty of the law, Peck said. 
Peck said the latest trend in ar­chitecture, following the nation­wide green movement, strives for more environmentally conscious designs. 
“There is a new interest in sus­tainable architecture,” Peck said. 
These “green” efforts range from finding ways to more effi­ciently use unused office-space to efficiently using a building’s nat­ural environment, like the Tom Maine Building in San Francisco. Peck said the building has no air conditioning, but was construct­ed with a particular ventilation design that would allow it to stay cool the majority of the year. 
Peck said the pyramids, great churches of the Middle Ages and the Parthenon were evidence that the messages and values of soci­ety were intrinsically connected to the buildings that were con­structed. 
“Something that big, that monolithic, clearly says some­thing about the civilization’s val­ues,” Peck said. 
At the nation’s beginning, Peck said there was “an explicit dia­logue” about the style of architec­ture that would best reflect the values of the American people. 
The founding fathers of the United States chose a style that “spoke to the country’s reverence of classical learning,” Peck said, a decision evident in the early ar­chitecture of the nation’s capital. 
“The government should not have an official style; rather they should take the best American architects that reflect the values and attitude of society,” Peck said. 
When the Capitol and the White House were planned, Peck said the government held design competitions to choose the build­ings’ architects. 
“Architecture has always been about more than buildings,” Peck said. “Those buildings say some­thing about its society and the people in it.” 
Contact Vicky Moreno at             vmoreno@nd.edu 


Court 
continued from page 1 
an advantage to the court here in Indiana and also an educa­tion for the students and the greater public,” Mayer said. 
A 1998 Notre Dame Law School graduate, Matthew Mc­Govern, is the defense attorney in the case. 
“I am trying to get the [Su­preme] court to leave the rem­edy that the Court of Appeals issued intact,” McGovern said. 
McGovern said the reper­cussions of the case would not be felt until after the Supreme Court writes its opinion. 
“What it is [they want to do] we will find out when the opin­ion comes down,” he said. “They could really do anything. They could give me the same remedy that I got in the Court of Ap­peals, but clarify the opinion. They could make new law and give me what I’ve asked for, or they could give the state what they asked for.” 
Mayer said the chance to ob­serve the case was an impor­tant moment outside the class­room for law students.  
“This makes it real for [the law students], because you do a classroom exercise, and in the back of your mind you’re always thinking, ‘Is this really how it works?’ and it feels arti­ficial,” Mayer said. “But this is a chance to see a real argument, a real case. This case has free­dom on the line.” 
Mayer said the fact that Mc­Govern, Cartwright’s attorney, was a Notre Dame graduate was also very powerful. 
“He was a student here, and the students can say, ‘I could be that guy,’” Mayer said. “’I could be interacting with the justices that way.’” 
First-year law student Eliza­beth Charnowski said hearing the arguments, watching the proceedings and interacting with the justices was a phenom­enal chance for a law student. 
“This was a great way to get exposure to the criminal law,” Charnowski said. “And it was great to hear such an important case argued in our own court­room.” 
Contact anna Boarini at                     aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
SMC math professor recalls research in Brazil 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
As part of International Edu­cation Week (IEW), Saint Mary’s mathematics professor Steven Broad discussed his time re­searching in Brazil this summer during a Monday lecture. 
Broad researched geometric singularity theory from April through July of this year with funding from a Fulbright grant. He said his research was mainly conducted at Universidade de São Paulo in São Paulo, Brazil, but he also spent time in Goiânia, Brazil and Rio de Janeiro. 
“Brazilians are very open and social in general,” Broad said. 
Broad spent his trip delivering lectures, talking to graduate stu­dents and attending conferences. 
The Fulbright program “offers grants to study, teach and con­duct research for U.S. citizens to go abroad and non-U.S. citizens to come to the United States,” ac­cording to the program’s website. 
Broad said he enjoyed learning about the country’s culture. 
“Rio isn’t as touristy as I ex­pected,” he said. “Most of the people [there] are Brazilian and from Rio. It’s a place that’s kind of stuck in the past, not to say it’s not a wonderful city. São Paulo is far more dynamic.” 
The Universidade de São Paulo is one of the largest and most prestigious universities in Brazil, Broad said, and adjusting to the a new campus with 80,000 stu­dents was a big change from Saint Mary’s College in South Bend. 
However, Broad said he knew a mathematics professor at the uni­versity in São Paulo, and making that connection helped him learn about his new setting. 
“It helped a lot that I had a con­tact to help arrange conferences and talks,” Broad said. 
Broad delivered eight presenta­tions throughout his time in Bra­zil. 
As he reflected on his trip, Broad said the application pro­cesses, which requires 15 to 20 pages of a research proposal and three letters of recommendation, was stressful. 
“It’s probably enough time that if you didn’t get the award you’d be upset about the amount of time you spent on it,” Broad said. 
But Broad said his time in Bra­zil was worth the trouble of the paperwork. 
“Sometimes it’s harder to come home than it is to go,” Broad said. “You prepare to go, but you don’t prepare to go home.” 
Contact Meaghan Daly at                                 mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 

ISSA 
continued from page 1 
“International Education Week is a national event that is coordinated by the U.S. Depart­ment of State and U.S. Depart­ment of Education to celebrate and promote global exchange between the U.S. and other countries,” Pensak said. 
ISSA sponsors the week of cultural events annually, Pen­sak said. 
“I think this is a great week for all students, faculty and staff to learn about other countries and cultures,” Pensak said. “It’s also a really great way to cele­brate the international student community at Notre Dame.” 
Students learned about for­mal meal etiquette around the world at the Career Center’s International Student Etiquette Dinner on Monday night to kick off the week. 
“We [talked] about formal etiquette specifically related to interviews or when you’re on the job, and how you should act in a formal meal situation,” she said. 
Pensak said she expects the most popular event to be the second annual Internation­al Taste of South Bend held Wednesday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
“We have eight international restaurants from the commu­nity that are providing interna­tional cuisine samples,” Pensak said. “It’s totally free and a lot of fun.” 
Approximately 200 students attended the inaugural event last year, Pensak said. Students from the International Ambas­sador program, a team of both international and American student leaders, helped orga­nize the dining event. 
Pensak said the ISSA also sponsors a sale of goods and handicrafts from the fair trade retailer Ten Thousand Villages every year during IEW. 
“Ten Thousand Villages is a fair trade organization which provides vital, fair income to Third World people by market­ing their handiwork and telling their stories in North America,” Pensak said. 
The products will be sold throughout the week in the atrium of Hesburgh Library. 
Although she is looking for­ward to attending the Ten Thousand Villages handicraft fair, Lynn McGreevy, a sopho­more from Ireland, said the lack of European-themed events is disappointing. 
“It’s mostly catered to the Latino community and there’s something for Brazilians too, but there isn’t really anything for Europeans,” McGreevy said. “I think it’d be nice if there was, but I also think there’s not enough of us [Europeans] on campus for it to matter too much.” 
McGreevy said she hopes this week will help domestic students realize that foreign cultures vary greatly from the Notre Dame culture. 
“Notre Dame has such a strong culture — like every­one knows Notre Dame and its football and the huge religious side,” she said. “But when I came here I didn’t know any­thing about American football. I didn’t understand tailgating or any of that stuff.” 
Karina Rattaccioli, a fresh­man from Nicaragua, agreed that IEW should encourage American students to learn more about the places interna­tional students call home. 
“It should make everyone else aware of who international stu­dents are and what their cul­tures are,” Rattaccioli said. “It’s interesting finding out about all that and seeing the different backgrounds people are com­ing from.” 
Last year, Pensak said IEW also began to collect donations for the Refugee Resettlement Program at the St. Joseph Chap­ter of the American Red Cross. The program needs children’s toys, school supplies and un­opened toiletries, Pensak said. 
“The St. Joe’s chapter became an authorized refugee resettle­ment agency in 2010,” she said. “They help settle refugees in the South Bend area. We will be collecting donations for them in 105 Main Building and at the International Taste of South Bend.” 
For a complete list of the times and locations of the IEW events, visit issa.nd.edu 
Contact Mel Flanagan at                   mflanag3@nd.edu 
Darby 
continued from page 1 
nished, roomy and have the ame­nities I think students want, both to enjoy their non-study life as well as their study time,” he said. “They’re going to be in a nice setting, the building exteriors will look nice and it will be a secure environ­ment.” 
Hunt said the combination of small details and features will make the development attractive to students. 
“I think the amenities are im­portant — things like granite countertops, big screen TVs, good finishes, ones that are attractive and durable,” he said. “It’s just the day-to-day environment we’re try­ing to create.” 

Constructing quality off-campus housing is not just about turning a profit or offering students a com­fortable living environment, Hunt said. The new development can also improve engagement between South Bend and students by at­tracting students off campus. 
“I think it’s important for Notre Dame students to have a good ex­perience off campus as well as on,” Hunt said. “Providing a quality [housing] environment is part of that. The better experience stu­dents have, after they graduate, 


Culture 
continued from page 1 
Jill Long, the assistant director for CWIL’s International Student Scholar Services and Recruit­ment, said the week’s activities will promote an understanding of other countries and foster inter-cultural relationships. 
“The idea is to bring awareness to the Saint Mary’s campus,” Long said. “We want people to realize how small our world really is and how important it is that we are up to date with what is going on in other corners of the globe.” 
IEW features cultural presenta­tions, discussions and panel pre­sentations led by faculty and stu­dents for the College community, Long said. Dinners and lunches featuring international cuisine will also be served each day in the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Long said she hopes the events will unite international and do­mestic students. 
“One of our goals is that people will feel more comfortable ap­proaching our international stu­dents on campus and appreciate how much work and preparation they have done in order to study in the United States,” Long said. “[In particular, the International Cultural and Study Abroad Fair] on Friday [in the Student Center Lounge] will be a relaxed set­ting for people to enjoy music and dance from other countries.” 
Long said another purpose of IEW is to promote new study abroad opportunities Saint Mary’s they’re more likely to come back, stay and build families and busi­nesses.” 
A model unit will be available by Jan. 1, 2012, Hunt said. Students interested in the development can contact Rent Like a Champion, the marketing agency for Darby Row, for more information. 
Contact John Cameron at                 jcamero2@nd.edu 
recently added to its list of avail­able programs. 
In addition to traditional pro­grams like those in Ireland, Rome and Innsbruck, students can now study abroad in Morocco, China, France and at Oxford University in England. Additionally, Long said the College recently opened a new spring break option in Ireland. 
The events of IEW will educate students about these study abroad opportunities, Long said. 
“If you’re thinking of studying abroad, you can get a better of idea of what the program is like from someone who has experi­enced it that is your own age,” Long said. 
While some events are similar to those hosted during last year’s program, Long said CWIL and the Department of Modern Languages made a few adjustments this year to allow more student attendance and discussion. 
“We looked at event attendance from last year and tried to make them more accessible for stu­dents,” she said. “We wanted to make students feel more comfort­able and feel like they are actually participating and that their ques­tions are welcome. The goal is to open things up more so a dialogue starts that will continue through­out the year.” 
For a schedule of International Education Week events and up­dated study abroad information, visit the CWIL website at www. centerforwomeninleadership. org 
Contact Bridget Feeney at                bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 15, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hidden charms 
On Friday, Nov. 4, The Observer ran an editorial about campus-community relations. The key takeaway was that they are not very good and could — and should — be much better. 
I’ve been at this University for nearly three-and-a-half years and it was only after moving off campus this year that I really began to explore South Bend beyond trips to Meijer or U.P. Mall. Take a lesson from me — don’t miss out like I did. 

Students love to complain about South Bend and how there is nothing to do, but how many of you actually go into the community looking for something beyond some bars, restaurants and grocery stores? 
South Bend is a community with real people that need activities and entertainment as badly as you do, so it is obviously out there, even if it seems hidden away to the student body. 
Scene started a column this year about things to do in South Bend that you might have missed. Since my first edition about the South Bend Farmer’s Market, we’ve also covered the concert venue Subkirke and a local pumpkin patch. 
We’ve barely touched the surface of what South Bend has to offer, but hunt­ing these places down and checking them out has opened my eyes to the many great things in South Bend. 
A few weeks ago, I went shopping on the south side of South Bend, an area I’ve never really ventured into. Imag­ine my surprise when I saw pictur­esque winding streets lined with beau­tiful trees and stunning old homes. No, I wouldn’t go there just to hang out, but I can only imagine how beautiful those streets will be when lit up with lights come Christmas. I’ll be back. 
It’s like we’ve become trained not to expect such charm from the city we live in. Well, it’s there. 
Another piece of South Bend charm? Fiddler’s Hearth. I write about this local Irish pub often enough that you might think they’re paying me to publicize it — they’re not. Fun whether you’re 21 or not, Fiddler’s is about good food, good drinks, good music and a great time for students, for “townies,” for visitors, for everyone. 
This isn’t an ad for Scene’s “Things to Do in South Bend” column and it’s not an ad for Fiddler’s. It’s my testi­mony that South Bend is actually a fun place to live — fun beyond Grape Road restaurants and a night at Finny’s or Feve — and that you’re doing yourself a disservice by not exploring it. 
There’s a great bakery on South Bend Ave. across from Goodwill that has a rotating selection of homemade breads. There’s a used bookstore started by Notre Dame alums with a fantastic selection up closer to Grang­er. There’s a tea room downtown for afternoon tea. And you all should have heard of the South Bend Chocolate Company. 
Take a chance and explore your city, because it is your city for these four years. Don’t waste them by pretending there’s nothing beyond the Notre Dame bubble. 
Contact Maija Gustin at      mgustin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Immigration and misunderstandings 
Immigration is without a doubt the most misunderstood and overlooked (with the exception of education, about which I have also written) is­sue in the current election cycle. Mitt Romeny claims that Rick Perry William Miller was lax on im­migrants; Rick Guest Perry claims that Columnist Mitt Romney hired illegals to cut his yard; Herman Cain wants to electrify the fence; Michelle Bachmann is just generally scared of minorities. 
Meanwhile, President Obama has done little to truly solve the issue. His administration has cracked down on employers who hire illegals, and more illegal immigrants are being deported than ever before. However, the fence remains unguardable, drug traffick­ers cross with ease and millions of people around the world continue to wait in line hoping for the chance to come here and live the American dream. 
The unfortunate part of this issue is that the two sides — secure the border vs. let more people in legally — are actually on the same side. People want to come to the U.S. legally be­cause the economic opportunities are enormous. But people decide to come illegally for two reasons: 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
First, the process for coming here legally is a long, bureaucratic night­mare that few understand. Second, the fence is not well-guarded and crossing is relatively easy. 
Solving one without the other will not fix the problem. If we make the process less bureaucratic without securing the border, then people will still have an incentive to cross illegally just because it’s so easy. What’s more, drug cartels will continue to smuggle drugs into America with ease, fueling the violence that currently plagues Mexico and Central America. 
However, if we only secure the bor­der, then immigrants will just try to find new ways of coming here illegally, either by swimming, digging ever-more-elaborate tunnels or hiring drug cartels to smuggle them in. 
Neither of these is a good outcome. That’s why we should secure the bor­der while also streamlining the pro­cess for coming to work here. Secur­ing the border has numerous benefits. 
First, it will make us safer — it’s not good that a terrorist could currently sneak into the U.S. with little chance of getting caught. 
Second, it will slow (though never totally eliminate) the stream of drugs coming into the U.S. This would re­duce the supply of drugs in the U.S., driving up the price and leading to fewer users. It would also reduce the flow of money heading to Mexican drug cartels, who use that cash to fund a campaign of intimidation and violence. 
By streamlining the process for coming here legally and simultane­ously securing the border, we could significantly reduce the need and desire for immigrants to cross ille­gally. This would dramatically reduce the amount of time and money that law enforcement spends catching and deporting illegal immigrants. It would also supply American businesses with the seasonal workers they need. That’s one reason that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce is such a big proponent of immigration reform. 
This issue isn’t that tough. The ben­efits to immigration reform would be enormous. The costs would be small. Sadly, Washington isn’t working very well at the moment. As a result, our border will remain insecure, millions will continue to come here illegally and millions more will continue wait­ing in line around the world, hoping to one day live the American dream. 
William Miller is a freshman. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Nobody can be exactly like me. Sometimes even I have trouble doing it.” 
Tallulah Bankhead 
American actress 

WEEKLY POLL 
Would you wear a Fanny pack? 
Of course. Of course not. Only if it’s the latest trend. This shouldn’t be a question. 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Arrested Development, Euro edition 
The current situation in the Eurozone is a story about how a little misrepresenta­tion and a lot of charade can escalate into a full-blown drama. 
While we wait for several Eurozone countries to shift around their govern­ments this week, here’s an analogy comparing a dys­functional continent with everyone’s favorite dysfunctional television family: the Bluths from Arrested Development. 
Greece embellished its records when it joined the Euro in 2001. Its true budget deficit was actually greater than the E.U.’s mandated three percent of GDP limit and its projections for the future were based on unrealistic expectations for growth. Ten years later, despite bailouts and austerity, Greece’s deficit sits above 15 percent and the end of the euro is a possibility, albeit a remote one. Although other countries are also struggling with debt, Greece’s problems are (hopefully) the most severe. 
George Sr. is not the only Bluth with du-

Grace Concelman 
Options and Futures 
bious ethics, but his actions are deceptive enough to land him in jail. Confined to an orange jumpsuit of shame, he sits on the sidelines and watches his family’s antics while somehow maintaining his patriar­chal role. George Sr. and Greece are so toxic, my only advice is this: No touching! 
Germany was doing just fine until the other countries started to pull it down. In fact, Germany is still faring pretty well in spite of everything. The German citizens have pushed back on the government for using taxpayer money to bail out the weaker members of the E.U., but in the end, it’s really in Germany’s best interest for the Euro to make it intact through the crisis. 
Similarly, Michael is the glue holding the Bluth family together. He tried to get away, but found that he couldn’t leave his family behind. His family constantly undermines any authority he has and this frustrates him, but in the end, he’s a good guy. 
France is fulfilling its modern role of pretending to be more important and influential than it actually is. In the begin­ning, France tried to position itself as Germany’s twin. Lately, though, France seems more like the little brother. It has been dealing with internal concerns, spe­cifically the potentially critical exposure of its banking system to Greek debt, and has had to defer to Germany’s leadership in recent agreements. 
Gob likes to think that he’s most capa­ble of running the Bluth Company in his father’s absence, but the rest of the family knows otherwise. More concerned with showy “illusions” than real leadership, Gob has always been destined to take the backseat to his brother, Michael. Never put too much faith in Gob or France, because you just might find you’ve made a huge mistake. 
The news out of Italy last week was that its 10-year bond rate rose above 7 percent, which is a significant number because when Greece, Ireland and Portu­gal’s bond rate rose above 7 percent they got bailouts. A bailout of Italy would be a disaster. Italy is continental Europe’s third biggest economy behind Germany and France, and it has five times more debt than Greece. Like their Greek counter­parts, the Italians just ousted their Prime Minister, but unlike the Greeks, the Ital­ians haven’t started rioting. 
Lucille also loves racking up debt. She’s used to living the good life and intends to continue to do so. Why change anything when you haven’t yet reached the limit on the company credit card? 
About a month ago, Slovakia got jealous of all the attention the richer countries in the E.U. were getting and became the only E.U. member country to fail to ratify enhancements for the European Finan­cial Stability Fund (EFSF). The move threatened the future of the EFSF; stocks tumbled and general mayhem ensued. Two days later Slovakia remembered its insignificance and approved the proposal. 
Buster is emotionally and economically bound to his family. He couldn’t really exist on his own and usually he’s happy to go with the flow, but sometimes he needs a little special attention too. Just like Slovakia, Buster usually lends a hand in the end. 
Ireland and Portugal both got bailouts but are relatively functional and work­ing through their debt issues. Thus, they resemble no one in the Bluth family. 
So now, we watch and wait for Europe to find its footing, to rally like the Bluths around the allegorical banana stand. Let’s just hope they have the sense not to burn it down. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Christie doing plenty 
Contrary to yesterday’s Letter to the Editor “Christie isn’t helping,” (Nov. 14) the governor is targeting his educational reforms at the waste, inefficiency and fail­ures within New Jersey’s public education system. 
Although the suburban districts are mostly very good, 31 urban districts that represent about 20 per­cent of N.J.’s school children receive about 60 percent of the state’s education funds despite continued poor performance. For over 20 years, the activist N.J. Supreme Court has mandated levels of state funding for these districts through the endless Abbott v. Burke litigation. The court has assumed unchecked author­ity in violating separation of powers by hijacking the appropriations power, explicitly given to the legislature in the state constitution. 
The court has legislated from the bench and created an entitlement for virtually limitless amounts of state taxpayer funds for these 31 “Abbott” districts. They have no incentives to reform themselves and spend about $3000 more per-pupil than the statewide aver­age. They have subpar graduation rates and many of their graduates are unprepared for college. The gover­nor has made it a top priority to reverse the judicially enforced philosophy that more money solves the urban education problem. 
Both of Christie’s budgets have increased the state’s contribution to education. His first budget resulted in a net reduction of funds because $1.2 billion in federal stimulus funds expired. That year, the state actually increased its amount of funding for education by $70 million despite the state’s fiscal crisis. The $820 mil­lion statewide reduction was greater for the Abbott districts simply because they get most of the state’s funds. The state funds more than 70 percent of the school budget for 25 of the 31 Abbott districts. 
The New Jersey Education Association, the state’s largest teachers’ union, has spent millions of dollars attacking the governor while not putting forth con­structive substantive solutions of its own. A county teacher’s union president even sent out a memo calling for the governor’s death in 2010. Out of self-interest, the NJEA opposes the governor’s proposals to expand school choice, provide financial incentives for improve­ment and impose consequences on administrators and teachers for failure. 
Michael Gardella 
junior Knott Hall Nov. 14 
Where’s the inclusion? 
So, I’m a little confused. I’ve always begrudgingly accepted Notre Dame’s failure to amend the non-dis­crimination clause to include sexual orientation as an unfortunate consequence of it being a private, Catholic university. The justification for declining to make this change is ostensibly fear that courts might not under­stand the Catholic distinction between sexual orienta­tion and sexual conduct. 
But wait! According to DuLac, students are only permitted to engage in “sexual union” if married. Notre Dame has taken sex out of the equation. Are we assuming that homosexual students will flaunt these rules? Are these individuals guilty until proven in­nocent? Is Notre Dame’s administration subscribing to the harmful and demeaning stereotype of homosexu­als as hyper-sexualized and promiscuous, reducing the fullness of their identity as human beings to their sexual preference? Or, are we ourselves failing to understand the complexity of the Church’s teachings on homosexuality? 
Although the Catechism casts homosexual acts as “intrinsically disordered,” it also asserts that homo­sexuals “must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided.” 
If we suspend reality for a moment and pretend, as the administration does, that the student body is expected to observe DuLac to the letter (hold your laughter — I’m looking at you, drunk freshman with a carnivorous fish!), then what could possibly be the justification for not including sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause? Students at Notre Dame are not permitted to engage in sexual intercourse unless they are married. If none of the student body is sexually active, how can we discriminate against homosexuals on the basis of sexual acts? 
This Sunday, I received a rainbow ribbon and a statement on Notre Dame’s “Spirit of Inclusion” at Mass. It was a beautiful gesture, and an important step toward fostering tolerance on our campus. Inclu­sion is important, but what about equality? I am proud to call myself Catholic because I believe the Church always strives to “read the signs of the times” (in the words of the Second Vatican Council). I think its time our administration woke up and started reading. 
Melissa Wrapp 
senior Cavanaugh Hall Nov. 14 
Alma Mater props 
Thank you Michael Floyd, Jonas Gray and Dayne Crist for staying for the Alma Mater after the Maryland game and encouraging your fellow teammates to stay as well. You won our hearts and respect. We appreciate your loyalty to Notre Dame at home and away. Even though most of the student body couldn’t be at the game, you stayed to support the students, alumni and band mem­bers who could attend — love thee Notre Dame! 
Hannah Miller 
senior Lewis Hall 
Danny Stagl 
senior off campus 
Maureen Vigland 
senior Walsh Hall Nov. 13 
Alma Mater fail 
Being an alumnus of both Maryland and Notre Dame, as well as a resident of the D.C. area, Satur­day’s game had been circled on the family calen­dar for over a year. As a Maryland alumnus, I was disappointed that the Terps were not able to be more competitive and suggested to my wife and daughter, both Notre Dame alums, that we leave a bit early to avoid the notorious FedEx field traffic. Both told me that we could not leave before the Notre Dame crowd and team sang the Alma Mater. 
As a Notre Dame alumnus, I was surprised to see most of the Irish team walk off the field through a tunnel directly under the band as it played the Alma Mater, without stopping or any acknowledgment. Eventually, a number of the upperclassmen on the team did stop, join arms in the customary fashion and join the band and the crowd in honoring the school in song. Coach Kelly was recently quoted about how his recruits understood his system and that the se­niors and juniors were still trying to get up to speed. Perhaps the end of Saturday’s game shows that the seniors and juniors are not the only ones with some work to do. 
Don’t even get me started on those silly helmets. 
Tom Millet 
alumnus Class of 1979 Nov. 13 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 15, 2011 


Wading through the excessive amount of horrible films on Instant Netflix can be daunting for any subscriber. To 
ease the process, Scene has graciously provided a list of 
the best Netflix has to offer. 

1. “The Last of the Mohicans” 
It is rare that a movie is both critically acclaimed andaction-packed, and it is even rarer that such a movie isavailable to watch instantly. “The Last of the Mohicans,”deftly directed by Michael Mann and based on thenovel by James Fenimore Cooper, is one of those rare intersections. A film most people remember hearing aboutor watching clips from in a middle school history class, itfeatures a performance from the always-spectacular DanielDay-Lewis and is definitely worth watching again or for thefirst time. 
2. “Toddlers and Tiaras” 
“Toddlers and Tiaras” teaches us so much. Poise,mistakes to avoid when spray tanning a small child, thedifferences between a natural and a glitz pageant andvocab such as “flippers.” No matter how often you watch it though, you will never understand the crowning process.A helpful hint is that the more horrified you are, the higherthey place.
You will laugh, you will cry and you will learn how not to raise your children. But perhaps the most entertainingaspect isn’t even the toddlers of the title — it’s their stage moms (and dads). If you like watching these parents spendmore money on a highlighter yellow dress than you spendon your college education, you need to get on the pageantcircuit. 
3. “Weird Science” 
Everybody knows “Sixteen Candles,” “Breakfast Club”
and “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off,” but John Hughes also had
a more obscure entry in the teen genre called “Weird
Science.” Starring Hughes’ favorite Anthony Michael Hall, the film follows two nerds on the quest for the perfectwoman. The film is an odd but rewarding blend of sci-fi,parody and the teen humor for which Hughes is known.
Keep an eye out for hilarious supporting performances byRobert Downey Jr. and Bill Paxton. 
4. “Borgia” 
You may have seen, or at least heard of, Showtime’s
new series “The Borgias” about a notorious Italian family.
Netflix now has you covered with the other new version 
of the story, simply titled “Borgia.” A French/German
co-production, this series from “Oz” creator Tom Fontana 
is just as racy, but likely more historically accurate thanits Jeremy Irons-starring competition. Broadcast across
Europe but seen by few Americans, Netflix is ready to
bring this European hit across the Atlantic. Warm up yourThanksgiving break with a good, old-fashioned costumedrama. 
5. “Exit Through The Gift Shop” 
This documentary is a fantastically done work of art set up like a house of mirrors. It’s almost impossible todetermine who’s telling the story and who can be trusted.Thierry Guetta sets out to document street artists and theirguerilla-art style. In the process, he comes in contact withpossibly the most notoriously secretive street artist of alltime — Banksy. As the film progresses, Banksy turns the camera on Guetta as he in a sense creates a manufactured art collective. The Academy Award nominateddocumentary maintains the mystery surrounding Banksy
and continuously asks the question, “What is art?” 

Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Around Town 
What: “Full Deck: A Short History of Skate Art” When: Oct. 1 2011- Jan. 8, 2012 Where: South Bend Museum of Art Cost: Free admission More information: www.southbendart.org 


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Lemons, maids and the sights of Venice are just a few of the artistic subjects brightening up the Badin social space this November. 
Badin opened their annual art show on Nov. 3 with 45 pieces of artwork from 30 students across Notre Dame’s campus.  The dorm announced the contest’s winners opening night. 
First prize was awarded to junior Michelle Lundholm’s work “Lemons,” a colored pencil submission. 
Second place was given to both law student Bridget Nugent’s watercolor “Vene­tian Sunrise” and junior Daniel Sunoh Choe’s black and white charcoal piece, “Imi­tation of Judith and Her Maid Servant with the Head of Holofernes.”  Senior Laura McGinn received third place for “Beta Test,” an oil painting on canvas. 
“We were extremely excited with both the number of students who submitted artwork and the number of students who came to see the show,” said sophomore Lauren Richards, one of Badin’s academic commissioners in charge of the art show. 
Badin has held their signature event for at least 10 years, Richards said. This year’s show included submissions from students of all majors and years.  Artwork included oil paintings on canvas, watercolors, charcoal drawings and photographs. 
Over 100 students toured Badin’s large social space on opening night, Richards said. Refreshments offered at this artistic event included bruschetta, cream puffs, mini quiches, fruit and vegetables and sparkling grape juice and cider.  
Richards’ fellow academic commissioners, sophomores Michelle Paek and Shar­lene Guiriba as well as Breanna Houghton, a Badin assistant rector, spent over a month planning the food, posters, prizes and setting up the artwork. 
Winners for the show received gift cards to the bookstore.  Three professors in the Art and Design department judged the submissions. 
The submissions will remain on display in the Badin large social space until Friday. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 




First prize Second prize (Nugent) Second prize (Choe) 
LAUREN KALINOSKI  | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Tuesday, November 15, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Excessive regulation 
We’ve entered the part of the college football season where the games truly start to matter. Okla­homa and Alabama are still on the hunt for a national champion­ship despite earlier de­feats, while Saturday’s losers, Boi­se State and Stanford, are all but eliminated from con­tention. For all the chat­ter about the need for a college fo otb all playoff, the BCS system (while inadequate) does create a play­off-type atmosphere for certain games, and that madness will continue all the way up through the conference championships. 
With that much hanging on every game, the possibility lurks that a crucial contest will be won and lost, millions of dollars will pass from hand to hand and an invitation to the national champi­onship will fall just out of reach because of college football’s new­est excessive celebration rule. 
It was already bad enough. 
In years past, excessive cel­ebration penalties have been a necessary evil in the NCAA rule­books, drawing a line in the sand to keep the college game out of the obscenity and taunting that celebrations often turn into. How­ever, that line is one of the fuzz­ier distinctions in sports. What’s deemed excessive by one referee can be tame to another, and that creates way too much wiggle room for bias or — God forbid — fixing games. 
This happened in last year’s Pinstripe Bowl, when a Kan­sas State receiver scored a last-second touchdown to pull his teammates within two points of Syracuse. But when he saluted the crowd after crossing the goal line, he was flagged for excessive celebration. Instead of attempt­ing a two-point conversion from the 2, the Wildcats were forced to move back to the 17-yard-line and Syracuse survived the scare to win the game. 
That gesture was later ruled by the official’s superiors to be innocuous and not worthy of a flag, but that official had already decided a bowl game and defined a team’s season. The damage was done. 
While the rule may have been painful before, the NCAA exac­erbated the problem over the off­season. Officials ruled that a play­er who celebrates before entering the end zone would be marked down at the spot of the celebra­tion, a 15-yard penalty assessed and the touchdown taken off the 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
board. 
This rule claimed its first victim this year in a ho-hum, irrelevant game between two schools you’ve probably never heard of: Florida and current No. 1 LSU. 
With a shot at a national championship hanging in the balance on every play, LSU had a touchdown wiped out when their punter, Brad Wing, kept the ball on a fake and scam­pered 52 yards down the side­line for a score. But because Wing extended his arms and looked back at the defense be­fore crossing the plane, Wing’s hard-earned moment in the sun was stripped from him and LSU settled for a field goal. 
It’s hard to blame Wing. With 90,000 people screaming at the top of their lungs for the play­ers, it’s hard to expect anyone to totally shut their elation out and cruise nonchalantly downfield as if they were out for a morn­ing jog. 
“Th Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. e emotions just got the better of me,” a crushed Wing said after the game. “I dream all the time about get­ting in the end zone, and it was finally going to happen. Punters don’t really get in the end zone a lot, so I was just very excited.” 
Is that really what we want to enforce in college football? With all of the terrible news coming out of places like Penn State, Mi­ami and Ohio State, wasn’t this one of the feel-good stories that makes us love college sports? This was the biggest moment of a young man’s career — the first thing millions of fans would think of when they heard his name. Instead, it was stripped away by the fun police. 
College football is, to many, up there with apple pie and the stars and stripes as one of the core institutions in our country. When we celebrate America’s biggest victory, our triumph over the British and our decla­ration to the world of freedom and independence, what do we do? Do we go meekly about our daily routines without acknowl­edging the feat? Do we apolo­gize to the king and queen, and perhaps invite them over for a conciliatory cup of tea? 
No. 
We find the biggest, loudest, brightest fireworks we can and blow them up. Celebrating a hard-won victory as obnoxious­ly and flashily as possible is the American thing to do. 
Flag that, NCAA. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB 
Papelbon officially joins Phillies 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Welcome to the Phillies, Cinco Ocho. 
Jonathan Papelbon and his alter ego finalized a $50 mil­lion, four-year contract with Philadelphia on Monday. The former Boston Red Sox closer had agreed to terms with the Phillies on Friday. 
The contract is the largest ever for a reliever, and it ac­tually totals $50,000,058. The deal includes a vesting option for 2016 that could become guaranteed based on games finished and would make it worth $63 million over five seasons. 
So what about that extra $58? 
“You’ll have to ask Cinco Ocho that question,” Papel­bon joked. “I can give you his phone number if you need it.” 
Papelbon will wear No. 58, which belonged to lefty An­tonio Bastardo last year. His nickname, of course, mimics Chad Ochocinco. The six-time Pro Bowl wide receiver legally changed his name from Chad Johnson to match his uniform No. 85. 
The Phillies are counting on Papelbon to produce far more than Ochocinco has in New England this year. He has just 11 catches in his first season with the Patriots. 
Papelbon replaces Ryan Madson, also a free agent. The Phillies were negotiating with Madson’s agent, Scott Boras, last week before going after Papelbon. 
“He is among the elite clos­ers in the game and someone who clearly has a passion to win,” general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said. 
Papelbon, a four-time All-Star, turns 31 on Nov. 23. He had 219 saves over seven sea­sons with the Red Sox, includ­ing 31 this year, when he made $12 million. The right-hander helped Boston to the 2007 World Series title. 
The Phillies have long been opposed to giving pitchers contracts beyond three years. They made an exception last year when they signed left-hander Cliff Lee to a $120 mil­lion, five-year deal. 
“Four years is a little un­comfortable, but on a player like this and a person who has had this pedigree and this background and success, sometimes you go the extra mile to do that,” Amaro said. “We felt he was the right guy to take a risk on.” 
Papelbon said talks with the Red Sox never really evolved. 
“The Phillies showed they were interested in me and I wanted to make this decision quick and get it over with,” he said. “I didn’t want to sit there and debate on whether I go back to Boston. 
“My agents called me every day with what could happen. One day I finally called them and said, ‘Listen, I want to go play for the Phillies. Let’s make it happen.’ They called me two days later and made it happen.” 
The Phillies have won five straight NL East titles, but are coming off a disappointing end to a season in which they set a franchise record with 102 wins. Philadelphia was eliminated in the NL division series by even­tual World Series champion St. Louis. 
Since winning the 2008 World Series, the Phillies have re­gressed each season. They lost in the World Series to the New York Yankees in 2009, were eliminated in the NLCS in 2010 and got knocked out in the first round this year. 
“The biggest thing in me com­ing here was playing against the Phillies the last four years, I re­ally admired the way they play, I really admired the way they grind it out and I just feel like the guys in this clubhouse, the way they play the game of base­ball is the way I play the game of baseball,” Papelbon said. “I’m excited to meet the guys, I’m ex­cited to play with them and I’m excited to compete with them.” 

Amaro said the Phillies still have payroll flexibility to re­sign shortstop Jimmy Rollins. The 2007 NL MVP is a free agent and said he wants to return to Philadelphia. 
A starter in the minor leagues, Papelbon has thrived in the bullpen in the majors. He has converted 88.3 percent of his save opportunities to go with a 23-19 record and a 2.33 ERA in 396 career appearances. He had a career-high 41 saves in 2008. 
Papelbon gets $11,000,058 next year, and $13 million in each of the following three sea­sons. The $13 million option for 2016 becomes guaranteed if he has 55 games finished in 2015 or 100 games finished in 2014­15 combined. 
Papelbon is the first major free-agent signing this year, and he’s the first player to leave the Red Sox in a turbulent offsea­son that began with the depar­ture of manager Terry Francona and was followed by general manager Theo Epstein going to the Chicago Cubs. David Ortiz, Jason Varitek, J.D. Drew, Tim Wakefield and Erik Bedard also are free agents. 
The turmoil in Boston didn’t factor into Papelbon’s decision to leave. He blew a save on the final day of the regular season, completing Boston’s monumen­tal collapse that led to all those changes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
ND faculty member needs Spanish tutoring by native speaker. Please call:
 574-631-8015 Looking for a chess mentor for 8-year-old boy to prepare for competitive chess. 

1 to 2 hours per week. 
Email qualificiations-experience to:
 jrjmsw03@yahoo.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 
information, visit ND’s website at:
 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Today I looked up Harry Potter on Urban Dictionary and found out that there is a reporter in Australia named Harry Potter. One more reason for me to study abroad. MLIA 
Last night, I voice-reecorded 
myself  while I slept because people think  I talk in my sleep. I do.... in Swedish. MLIA 
Today, I saw a dangerous-looking 
guy covered in tattoos. Then I noticed they were all Harry Potter tattoos. It’s good to put stereotypes to rest. MLIA 
Today I was reading my school’s Code of Conduct when I realized that the dress code didn’t include shoes. I know what’s on my bucket list. MLIA. 
Today, I woke up to see my 
roommate dressed in a full-out grape costume. She yelled “I’m the grapest!” then ran out of the room. This isn’t the weirdest thing I’ve woken up to. MLIA. 
Today I was eating a candy cane  when I realized it hadn’t gotten any smaller since I started eating it. I then realized I forgot to take the wrapper off. MLIA 

Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Cavanaugh, McGlinn advance to finals in Stadium 
Chaos show no mercy to Purple Weasels in 19-0 shutout; Shamrocks move past Ducks to championship 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
With a dominating aerial attack and a relentless pass defense, No. 1 Cavanaugh pre­vailed over No. 5 Pasquerilla West 19-0 in Monday night’s semifinal matchup.  By defeat­ing Pasquerilla West (5-3), Ca­vanaugh (8-0) achieved the goal every interhall team strives for 
— a chance to play in Notre Dame Stadium with the inter-hall championship on the line. 
“We came ready and pre­pared to play,” senior receiver Bridget Bredemann said. “We showed how good we have been all season and can’t wait to play in the Stadium.” 
With two second-half touch­down receptions, Bredemann had a break out performance for the Chaos.  On the opening drive of the second half, Brede­mann caught a 25-yard pass from senior quarterback Re­becca Cink to set the Chaos up at the Purple Weasels’ 26-yard line.  Cink and Bredemann con­nected again four plays later for the 14-yard touchdown, giving Cavanaugh a 12-0 lead. 
After stopping Pasquerilla West on fourth down, the Chaos struck once again with another touchdown pass from Cink to Bredemann — this time from six yards out. 
While in the red zone, Cava­naugh routinely loaded all four receivers on the left side of the line, forcing an extra Pasque­rilla West defender to cover the open space on the right side. The strategy helped the Chaos to connect on passes across the middle and right sides of the field, including the second touchdown to Bredemann. 
Although Cavanaugh only gained 16 yards on the ground, Cink’s precision passing al­lowed the Chaos to put three touchdowns on the board. 
In addition to an impres­sive offensive performance, the Chaos’ defense also prevented the Purple Weasels from mov­ing the ball effectively.  By tip­ping seven passes and prevent­ing long rushes, Cavanaugh kept Pasquerilla West from sustaining an lasting offensive drive until late in the second half.  
Utilizing a man-to-man de­fense and a roaming safety, Ca­vanaugh defenders swarmed to every thrown ball, resulting in a shutout. 
Even though its season fin­ished with a tough loss, Pasque­rilla West was able to remember its great year and the immense progress players made. 
“I’m really proud of every­one,” senior captain Alison Lin­deen said.  “It hurts to lose like this, but I’m proud of our sea­son.  I think we worked really hard and had huge improve­ments over the season.” 

Cavanaugh, meanwhile, couldn’t be more excited to get the opportunity to play in Notre Dame Stadium, Bredemann said. 
“We are thrilled to be playing in the stadium and can’t wait to show McGlinn what we’ve got,” Bredemann said.  “We want to complete our undefeated sea­son.” 
The Chaos will play No. 6 Mc-Glinn on Sunday in the cham­pionship game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
No. 6 McGlinn 7, No. 7 Howard 0 
By ISSAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Both No. 6 McGlinn and No. 7 Howard proved their defen­sive authority Sunday, but the Shamrocks had the answer offensively and defeated the Ducks. 
McGlinn (6-2) jumped to an early lead in the first half when the Shamrock defense returned an interception for a touch­down. However, it was called back for flag guarding and Mc-Glinn was unable to capitalize on its great field position from 15 yards out as Howard (5-3) was rock-solid defensively. 
“Our defense played strong and the red-zone stand seemed to energize the girls,” Howard senior captain and cornerback Caroline Walsh said. 
Although it could have been a game-changing blow, McG­linn rallied, relying on a hard-nosed defensive front.
 “We persevered and knew our defense would pick the of­fense up,” McGlinn senior cap­tain and quarterback Lauren Miller said. “We still had con­fidence going into the second half.” 
After a scoreless first half, the 0-0 tie was broken on an 18-yard pass from Miller to se­nior receiver Kate Tucker four minutes into the second half. 
“I ended up being wide open somehow and Lauren threw a perfect pass,” Tucker said. “I’m just glad I didn’t screw it up.” 
After the score, the Sham­rocks clamped down defen­sively and stifled the Ducks’ offense. 
“Our defense played amaz­ingly and they have been the key strength of our team this year,” Miller said. “They gave us the chance the win and the chance to get the touchdown in the second half.” 
Howard, meanwhile, was un­able to get anything going of­fensively. Of the Ducks’ three offensive drives in the second half, two ended in punts. The last drive for the Ducks showed promise but ended with a turn­over on downs. With 20 sec­onds remaining, Howard failed to convert on a fourth-and-two and McGlinn went into victory formation to end the game. 
“Our offense was just un­able to get anything going. The plays that worked against Ryan just didn’t work against McG­linn,” Walsh said. “After the loss of some key players from last year, we were happy to get to the playoffs and even hap­pier to upset Ryan, but it just wasn’t in our cards this time.” 
The Shamrocks will look to repeat their success from three years ago, when they won the interhall championship. 
“Our seniors were freshman last time we played in the Sta­dium and we want to end the way we started,” Miller said. “We are going to go out this week and have fun.” 
McGlinn will face No. 1 Cava­naugh on Sunday in the wom­en’s interhall championship at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact issac lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


FENCING 
Team finds success at national tourney 
By MIKE MONACO won the men’s foil, and freshman Sports Writer Lee Kiefer, who also placed first 
in the women’s foil. 
The defending champion fenc-Additional strong performanc­ing squad traveled to Austin, es included freshman Ashley Se-Texas this weekend for the Unit-verson’s third place finish in the ed States Fencing Association’s women’s epee and sophomore North Ameri-Adriana Cama­can Cup, their cho’s 15th place first national finish in the 
tournament as a squad this season. Twenty freshman and s o ph o m o r e s made the trip for the Irish.  “It was the first national tournament of the year for us, and it was definitely nice to get back into it.”  women’s foil. The Irish will travel to Uni­versity Park, Pen n sylva n ia for Penn State’s Garret Open  
“It was the first national tournament of  Dale Purdy freshman epeeist  on Saturday. The event has no bearing on  
the year for us,  NCAA  Champi­ 
and it was defi­ onship  qualifi­ 
nitely  nice  to  cation,  but  the  

get back into it,” freshman epee-event is more than just a trial run ist Dale Purdy said. for the squad. 
Purdy finished 13th out of 219 “It’s kind of a warm-up [for the in his division, and highlighted a rest of the season], but it’s actual-group of underclassmen that was ly one of the more intense tourna­successful in Texas. ments we have,” Purdy said. “It’s 
“I was pretty happy with [my good preparation for the other performance],” Purdy said. “That events.” gets me points for the national The defending champs will be team and that’s my goal in addi-back in action Saturday at 8 a.m. tion to [qualifying] for the NCAA and continuing into Sunday at Championships.” Penn State. 
Other newcomers had impres­sive performances, including Contact Mike Monaco at freshman Race Imboden, who jmonaco@nd.edu 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Tuesday, November 15, 2011 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Sorin, Dillon return to championship for rematch 
By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
Spectators might feel a sense of déjà vu at the men’s interhall football cham­pionship Sunday at Notre Dame Stadium. Sorin junior kicker Connor Wathen’s late field goal, the Otters’ only scoring play of the semifi­nal event, sent the Otters on their way to a champion­ship repeat appearance. 
Wathen’s late 38-yard field goal gave the No. 3-seed Sorin a victory over No. 7 Alumni to set up a re­match of last year’s final with No. 5 Dillon. Sorin (5­0-1) won last year’s champi­onship 7-6 in overtime. 
The first possession for Alumni (3-3) ended in con­troversy. The Dawgs drove to the Sorin five-yard line. Alumni went for the first down on 4th-and-2, but were ruled short. The referees had trouble measuring with the chains and appeared to lose their place more than once. Alumni sophomore receiver Jeff Kraemer was not pleased with the refer­ees’ confusing process. 
“They brought the chains out and went to measure it,” Kraemer said. “I don’t know if the ref lost his spot on the chains or if the guys holding them moved. They came back to the sidelines, set it up in a different spot, re-measured and we didn’t get it. That messed up the game, I think.” 
Sorin moved the ball to get some breathing room but was backed up in its end after a penalty for a low block. Following the penal­ty, a botched pitch by junior captain and quarterback Ted Spinelli led to a safety and a 2-0 Alumni lead going into halftime. 
The score was still 2-0 entering the fourth quar­ter when Alumni was forced to punt into a strong wind from its own 14-yard line, leading Sorin to start its possession at Alumni’s 27­yard line. 
Controver­sy erupted time remaining, convert­ing a 4th-and-19 from the Sorin 47-yard line as fresh­man quarterback Tyler Barron found Kraemer for a 27-yard gain. But a 24­yard field goal attempt into the wind from senior kicker Matt Labriola went wide left, and Sorin celebrated earning another trip to Notre Dame Stadium. Sorin junior receiver Ryan Robin­son said he is looking for­ward to another showdown with Dillon. 
“I’m excited for the re­match,” Robinson said. “Last year we played them to a close game and Dil­lon has a great squad this year.” 
No. 3 Sorin will meet No. 5 Dillon at 3:30 p.m. Sunday at Notre Dame Stadium for the men’s interhall champi­onship in a rematch of last year’s title game. 
Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu 
Dillon 7, Siegfried 6 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
Junior running back Terry Howard looked nearly un­stoppable as he helped lead the No. 5-seed Dillon to an upset over top-seeded Sieg­fried, advancing his team to the championship game for the second straight year. 
Howard led the Big Red (5-1) with 147 rushing yards on 22 carries, including a five-yard touchdown run early in the fourth quarter to give Dillon the lead. On Dillon’s final drive to seal the game, Howard convert­ed three pivotal first downs to help the Big Red advance to their second straight championship appearance. Howard credits his strong offensive line for his suc­cess. 
“Our biggest factor was the offensive line,” Howard said. “They made my job so much easier by opening the field for me and allowing me to find the open field.” 
The Big 
Red know 

again when S p i n e lli went for a q u a r t er ­back sneak  “I just wanted it to get through ... It was ugly, but as long as it gets through, that’s all that counts.”  they will have to pol­ish up a few of the mis­takes they  
and the ball  made on the  
a p p e a r e d  Connor Wathen  field, but are  
to pop out. Alumni se- Sorin junior  jubilant and ready for a  
nior  safe- second  shot  
ty  Barrick  at a champi- 
B o l l m a n  onship after  

thought his team had recov-losing in overtime last year, ered the fumble. junior offensive lineman 
“To us, it looked like we Bob Burkett said. had the ball,” Bollman said. “Our guys just played “It was a tie — one Sorin with heart, and we wanted guy and one Alumni guy had it more,” Burkett said. “This their arms around the ball. game was unbelievable. We The refs gave it to them.” fought adversity and when 
The Dawgs forced an Ot-it mattered, we were able to ter fourth down and Sorin execute and move the ball decided to try for the field down the field.” goal. Wathen’s kick was Reflecting on last year’s tipped at the line of scrim-season, Burkett said he mage, but the wind pushed never thought that he would the ball over the crossbar have an opportunity to re-for a 3-2 Otter lead. claim the championship af­
“I just wanted to get it ter a tough loss. through,” Wathen said. “It “We have a great oppor­was ugly, but as long as it tunity in front of us,” Bur-gets through, that’s all that kett said. “I never thought counts.” I would have a shot at play-
Alumni stormed back ing at Notre Dame Stadium down the field with little twice in my life. We need to focus real hard in prac­tice this week, clean up the mistakes and be ready for a physical game come next Sunday.” 

Meanwhile, Siegfried (5­
1) suffered its first loss of the season, thanks largely to a blocked extra point in the first quarter. The Ram­blers also had two costly turnovers that ended pos­sible scoring drives when they were on Dillon’s end of the field. Siegfried had a season-low 128 yards of to­tal offense. 
Though the season did not end how they would have liked, Rambler coach PJ Zimmer took a lot away from the team’s showing this year. 
“I told them as long as they did not leave anything on the field — regardless of what the final score is — they have nothing to hang their heads down on,” Zim­mer said. “We had a great season. We accomplished almost all our goals, and I look forward to a great new season next year. This will be something that will in­spire us for the future and help us build a strong nu­clei.” 
The Big Red look to claim a shot at redemp­tion against Sorin in Notre Dame Stadium on Sunday at 3:30 p.m. in their sec­ond straight championship appearance. 
Contact andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s volleyball plays in first tournament of the year 
Tennis defeats Grand Valley State and Western Michigan; Women’s ice hockey struggles against Michigan St. 
Special to The Observer 
Men’s Volleyball 
The men’s volleyball team took to the courts at Michi­gan State on Saturday for their first tournament of the year.  The Irish placed sec­ond at nationals last season and look to start things off with a bang. In pool play, they dominated the College of DuPage, 25-11, 26-24, in the first match of the day. 
Bowling Green was the next opponent and was de­feated by a slew of Irish underclassmen. Led by sophomore libero Brian Buc­ciarelli, the Irish rolled to victory, 25-13, 25-16. 
National power Ohio State went up against the Irish next. Serving errors plagued the Buckeyes, however, and behind the big arms of se­nior Kevin Padden and ju­nior Rob Bauer, the Irish won the pool with the vic­tory over OSU, 25-14, 20-25, 15-9. 
Next, the Irish beat last year’s 3rd place national fin­isher and in-state rival, In­diana. The Hoosiers brought back most of their starters, much like the Irish, and this win was key for seeding in Sunday’s tournament play. 
The Irish came out swing­ing, and senior Tom Johnson showed his might at the right pin with monster blocks and explosive kills. The story of the match, however, was in the superb defense and serving that the Irish put on display.  Sophomore libero Liam Gallagher, along with Bucciarelli and outside hit­ters Padden and Bauer, gave Indiana fits all night with their incredible digs.  Fol­low that up with senior Steve Walsh’s big jump serve, and the recipe for success was complete. The Irish won 25­18, 23-25, 15-13. 
Entering pool play on Sun­day, Notre Dame was set to face off against Purdue. Even with the slow morn­ing start, the Irish put away from the Boilers with ease, 25-18, 25-15.  Notre Dame also beat Northern Illinois, 25-19, 25-15. 
However, the next match would prove more difficult since the Buckeyes of OSU were back for revenge.  In this semifinal matchup, the Bucks were hitting their serves well. With the help of team captain and senior set­ter Joshua Rehberg, Notre Dame was able to overcome the hard swings of Ohio State and win the match 25­23, 24-26, 15-13. 

In the tournament finals, Notre Dame squared off against the Badgers of Wis­consin, who added several big time freshmen to their team. Coming out of the gates, fatigue had obviously caught up with the Irish, who had difficulty keeping up with the big hitters and well-placed serving of Wis­consin. The Irish dropped the first set 18-25. 
Facing elimination and a second place finish, Notre Dame trailed 17-13 in game two and seemed fated to lose.  However, with Gal­lagher making incredible dig after incredible dig and Padden making huge blocks, the Irish stormed back to take game two 25-23. 
The Irish carried this momentum into the third game and absolutely domi­nated the Badgers in every aspect, blowing their doors off in a 15-3 victory to claim first place at the Back to the Hardwood Classic.  This is the first tournament the Irish have won away from home in recent memory, if not the first ever.  After the finals match, sophomore middle and coach Scott Can­na said, “Both teams played hard.” 
This Notre Dame team is looking to finish one spot better than last year, and claim the program’s first-ever national title. The 9-0 Irish will be a force to be reckoned with all year, and this is only the beginning. 
“All we do is block and dig,” Padden said.
 If the Irish continue to do that, then they will be on their way to another re-cord-setting season. 
Tennis 
Notre Dame unveiled a new club this weekend as the tennis club entered its first official competition. The Irish opened play with two victories. 
The first match was against Grand Valley State University. Junior Stefan Hogle and freshman Matt Hing played men’s dou­bles, losing the set 6-3.  In women’s doubles, freshmen Christine Rush and Eliza­beth Quinn took their set 6-0.  Senior Luke Mansour played men’s singles and won 6-3. Junior Anna Wan­zek won the women’s sin­gles 6-2.  To close the win against Grand Valley, fresh­men Elle Harding and Ed Broun won mixed doubles 6-0. The Irish won, 27-11. 
In the second round the Irish competed against Western Michigan Universi­ty.  Sophomore Shane Han-non and freshman Andrew Neils won the men’s doubles 6-4. Wanzek and Rush cap­tured the women’s doubles, winning the set 6-0.  In the singles matches, freshman Edward Kielb defeated his opponent 6-0, and Quinn earned a 6-3 victory.  Once again, the club finished the round with Harding and Hing winning the mixed doubles in a set tiebreaker, 6-5(2). The final score was 30-12. 
Unexpectedly, Ferris State University was unable to attend and the match was cancelled.  
Bowling 
The bowling team traveled to Dayton, Ohio this week­end for the Raider Classic. Senior Brian Frisch and freshman Chris Henneman finished just outside the top 50 with averages above 
170.  First Year MBA stu­dent Robbie Espiritu and freshmen Michael Schnei­der and Kevin Schneider also bowled well, but had a bit of difficulty with the sport’s shot used, the Ke 
see CLUB/page 14 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Tuesday, November 15, 2011 
This weekend, the Notre lin made the initial score. unassisted. During the 
Brooks Club 

Dame and Michigan State Michigan State took the first period, White served Club Teams worked togeth-lead 2-0 after a goal from a two-minute penalty for 
continued from page 16 

continued from page 13 er to honor and remember Jessica Ponish.  However, checking, which hurt the veterans.  The teams raised Notre Dame freshman Tori Irish mission. St. Mary’s So I’m just really proud of him. 
gel Winding Road.  This is money for the Wounded White scored an unassist-freshman Mary Salvi also Honestly, we just want to keep 
the type of surface oil lay-Warrior Project, an initia-ed goal to make it 2-1. served a two-minute pen-taking baby steps, getting bet­
ered on the lanes. The Irish tive that supports families During the second peri-alty for hooking. ter and better.” 
finished 19th of 21 in the of those who have been in-od, Notre Dame freshman The Irish held Michigan Sophomore guard Jer-
Raider Classic and will be jured in Iraq and Afghani-Suzanne Fitzpatrick ripped State scoreless during the ian Grant also scored double-
back in action Jan. 14th, stan.  The Notre Dame and an unassisted goal to tie second period.  The Irish figures for the Irish with 11 
when they travel to Cincin-Michigan State Club Teams the score.  However, Michi-spent almost eight minutes points on three of six shoot­
nati for the Hoinke Bearcat hosted a pre-game cer-gan State took a 3-2 lead to on the power play as Mich­ing from beyond the arc, and 
Tournament. emony before Saturday’s end the second period as igan State picked up four junior forward Jack Cooley 
contest, during which they Erika First scored. penalties — Mackensie grabbed eight rebounds. 
Squash invited honorary team During the final period of Smith for tripping, Megan “Early in practice, the first 
Notre Dame hosted Uni-captains onto the ice and the game, Michigan State Purcell for interference, week or two, if the offense 
versity of Illinois Spring-participated in a moment scored to open the period Sydney Schulz for checking was going good, [our defense] 
field this weekend and the of silence honoring fallen and took a 4-2 lead.  How-and Purcell for tripping. could hang our head a little 
Irish swept a pair of con-soldiers.  Both teams wore ever, White received a pass In the third period, Mich­bit,” Brey said. “But I thought 
tests, 8-1 and 6-3. yellow ribbons on their jer-from Fitzpatrick, making igan State’s Kaitlyn Vande­tonight, that’s a heck of a thing 
seys this weekend to hon-the score 4-3. White scored wade scored a goal off a to build on, just to be mature 
Outing or those who have made her third goal of the game, pass from Emily Ledford enough to defend when we 
Twenty-three men and the ultimate sacrifice and another unassisted shot before the referee blew the were laboring to score. But 
women ventured to the In-those who continue to to tie the score 4-4 in the whistle for an Irish penal-we just kept going back and 
diana Dunes this weekend serve our nation. third.  Despite White’s hat ty.  Though the Irish domi­defending. I just think for No-
as the new Outing club The Notre Dame Women trick, the Irish were unable nated play at the end of the vember, to see that tonight, I 
spent the weekend hiking fought hard against Michi-to stop Michigan State.  In third, Michigan State’s Mc­really think that’s something 
and camping on its first gan State on Saturday, but the final minute of play, Clusky scored a quick goal to build on. I’m really proud of 
sanctioned trip.  The club lost 5-4 in the last minute. Michigan State’s Staci Bur-with 3:11 to play.  Melinda our group.” 
welcomes new members Notre Dame had a short ligone scored a power play Zelinski picked up the as-After two quick layups from 
interested in exploring na-bench as only 11 of their 21 goal and the Irish lost 5-4. sist. Connaughton and a three­
ture trails and engaging in members could travel this Sunday, the Irish “looked Cmunt played well in point-play from Cooley cut 
outdoor activities. weekend.  However, fresh-tired” Notre Dame coach, net, but the Irish could not the Detroit lead to three with 
man goalkeeper Mary Salvi Siegfried junior Derek Wolf score on Michigan State just under 13 minutes left in 
Women’s Ice Hockey helped the team by playing said. The Irish lost 4-0. goalie Amanda Tapp. the game, senior guard Scott 
The Notre Dame Wom-right wing this weekend, Michigan State picked The Irish are back on the Martin, who had not scored all 
en’s Club Ice Hockey Team while senior goalie Elissa up two goals in the first ice on Sunday, Dec. 4 when night, connected on a three-
began their season this Cmunt played in the net. period from Elizabeth Mc-they host Loyola at Notre point attempt to bring Notre 
weekend with two games In the first period, Mich-Cluskey and Emily Led-Dame’s Compton Family Ice Dame even, and the Irish nev­
at Michigan State. igan State’s Jennifer Po-ford. Both goals were Arena. er looked back. 
“We did it with [defense,]’” Brey said. “That was a great win for our group. I don’t know if I’ve been prouder of a group, 

Jackson given who they are trying to find themselves to beat a very 
continued from page 16 good basketball. We really had to defend and we really 
out that he got a game and a had to get through tough stuff 
half off instead of just one. He throughout the game when 
should be ready to go.” things didn’t look good. And 
Notre Dame is riding a we really responded well.” 
seven-game unbeaten streak, The Irish were without 
winning five games and tying fifth-year forward Tim Abro­
two during the stretch. Ma­maitis, who is serving a four-
day, however, said the Irish game suspension due to eligi­
have potential to be an even bility issues. Abromaitis will 
better team. serve the third game of his 
“We know we’re going to suspension Wednesday when 
be able to score goals,” Ma­the Irish take on Sam Houston 
day said. “I think the biggest State at 7:30 p.m. in the Pur­
thing is tightening up our de­cell Pavilion. 
fensive play. We need to make sure we value the puck a little 
Contact Eric Prister at 
bit more and not have as many 
eprister@nd.edu 
careless turnovers. When we 
fix that, we’ll be able to limit 
the scoring opportunities for 
the other teams.” 
The Broncos (6-3-3, 4-3-1-1) 
will enter the contest losers of 
three games straight, despite 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
opening the season unbeaten 
for the first nine games of the 

year. career points last year. She 
Sophomore forward Chase also earned first team all-
Balisy leads the Broncos with conference honors, while 
four goals and eight assists for senior guard Maggie Ronan 
a team-high 12 points. Junior received a spot on the all­
defenseman Luke Witkowski conference second team.“We 
anchors a Western Michigan return five seniors this year 
defense that gives up just two who have really made their 
goals per game. mark on this program over 
“We need to match their the last three seasons,” Hen-
work ethic and probably ex­ley said. “They are a great 
ceed it if we want to come away group of women to coach and 
with a win on Tuesday,” Maday I am expecting big things 
said. this year from all of them.” 
Jackson said Western Michi-Henley said that if the 
gan is one of the tougher oppo­team can expand on what 
nents in Notre Dame’s confer-it accomplished last year, it 
ence. will have a good chance of 
“They had a tough weekend winning against the Thun­
this weekend [against Michi­der. 
gan State] but they’ve been on “We return one of the 
roll,” Jackson said. “They’re most talented groups since I 
very deep up front. The thing have been a part of the pro-
that impresses me is that gram,” Henley said. “I think 
they’ve improved their back we have the potential to do 
end. They’re a little younger in many great things for the 
goal. They have one dynamic 2011-2012 season.” 
line and their second line is no The Thunder will travel to 
slouch. They’re a good hockey Saint Mary’s for a 7:30 p.m. 
team. They compete hard and tip-off Tuesday. 
they skate well.” 
Contact Brendan Bell at 

Contact Matthew Defranks at bbell2@nd.edu 
mdefrank@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE
EXPND 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, November 15, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Surviving a scare 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s win streak in the Purcell Pavilion is still alive 
— but just barely. 
Down eight points with 14 minutes to go, the Irish went on a 14-0 run to take a 47-41 lead over Detroit, one they never relinquished on their way to a 59-53 win Monday night. It was Notre Dame’s 21st win in a row at home. 
“We had to grind it out in the second half,” sophomore guard Eric Atkins said. “But we pride ourselves on not losing in this building. We always knew we were going to come back. Down eight seems like down two here. It doesn’t really feel like any­thing – one stop, get the crowd into it. We just had a total team defensive game for us.” 
Atkins and senior Joey Brooks led the Irish in scoring with 13 points apiece. Brooks added nine rebounds and also guard­ed Detroit sophomore guard Ray McCallum throughout the game. McCallum, who fin­ished the game with 22 points, scored12 on four three-pointers in the first seven minutes of the game, but was relatively quiet on the court for the rest of the game. He picked it back up in the last minute, but by point, the game was well out of reach. 
“Joey’s playing so well,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “I couldn’t be more thrilled for a guy who’s battled like heck to find his niche in our program. But he’s guarding McCallum, he’s rebounding the ball, he’s screening, being the rock out there, being the voice.” 

The star of the second half for the Irish was freshman guard Pat Connaughton, who after re­cording no points and just one rebound in four minutes of play in the first half, sparked Notre Dame with 10 points and eight rebounds after the break. He scored seven straight points in a minute of play for the Irish down the stretch to help seal the win. 
“I was really proud of Pat tonight,” Brooks said. “He did a great job, giving us energy plays, sneaking around, getting easy layups. Rebounding, he did a great job of rebounding. 
see BROOKS/page 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish overlooked for NCAA tourney 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame’s season came to a surprising end Monday after they were not selected for one of the coveted 48 spots in the NCAA tournament. 
The then-No. 18 Irish lost to Villanova 1-0 at home in the first round of the Big East Conference tournament on Nov. 3. They prac­ticed for one and a half weeks be­fore they found out their season was over. 
The Irish rounded out the year at 9-5-4 overall and 5-3-1 in the conference. Notre Dame only lost by a margin of more than one goal once, against West Virginia on Oct. 29. 
At the conclusion of the Big East Tournament, three Notre Dame players gained spots on the top two all-conference teams. 
Senior defender Aaron Maund, who played in every minute of competition for the Irish in 2011, gained a spot on the first all-con­ference team. Maund earned sec­ond team honors in both 2009 and 2010. 
Two juniors, midfielder Dillon Powers and forward Ryan Finley, were both named to the second all-conference team. 
Finley led the Irish in goals scored this season with seven and made a name for himself during his first season with Notre Dame after transferring from Duke. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles open season with a strong test 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will build on last season’s winning re­cord and bring back a fa­miliar roster as they host No. 25 Wheaton in their season opener Tuesday. 
“Wheaton is a very strong team,” Belles coach Jenni­fer Henley said. “We need to set the tone early with our defense and keep them off the boards. They are very disciplined at both ends of the court.” 
The Belles finished their 2010-2011 season 15-12 and placed third in the conference. The core of the team returns, including se­nior forward and captain Kelley Murphy. Murphy said she is optimistic about the upcoming season. 
“We are approaching this season strong with experi­ence and a talented incom­ing class,” Murphy said. “We look forward to picking up right where we left off, to build on all of our suc­cesses accomplished [last] season.” 
Murphy averaged 15.5 points per game and be­came the ninth player in school history to score 1,000 
see BELLES/page 14 
HOCKEY 

ND prepares for midweek showdown with Broncos 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Just three days after complet­ing a two-game sweep over con­ference foe Alaska, No. 4 Notre Dame will turn its attention to No. 10 Western Michigan today for a rare midweek game. 
The Irish (7-2-2, 5-1-2-0 CCHA) won both contests over the week­end with goals in the last minute 
— Friday’s in regulation, Satur­day’s in overtime. 
Sophomore defenseman Ste­phen Johns atoned for a five-minute major penalty by blast­ing in the game-winner during Friday’s wild 5-4 win. 
Senior center Billy Maday ben­efitted from a coaching decision that placed him on a line with sophomore center T.J. Tynan and sophomore left wing Anders Lee. The change enabled Ma-day to score the winning goal in overtime during Saturday’s 3-2 win. 
“I think the recent position change for me at center will stick from here on out,” Maday said. “It was just a late coaching move by [Irish] coach [Jeff] Jackson. He saw an opportunity by put­ting us three together and late in the game, it paid off.” 
Lee and Tynan — two of Notre Dame’s dynamic playmakers 
— lead the nation in goals and assists, respectively. Lee has notched 12 goals this year while Tynan has racked up 16 assists in just 11 games. 
“[Tynan] has just kind of taken off from where he finished last year,” Jackson said. “It’s more than just about points. He’s do­ing a pretty good job penalty killing, and before he got hurt, he was doing a pretty good job about face-offs.” 

Jackson utilized his two main goalies over the weekend as well. He pulled junior goalten­der Mike Johnson after Johnson gave up four first-period goals Friday night and inserted sopho­more Steven Summerhays. Sum­merhays played the remainder of the contest, then started his third game of the season in Sat­urday’s win. 
Jackson was still unsure Mon­day who would start in goal against the Broncos. 
“[We] could go either way on it,” Jackson said. “In the near future, I’m going to need to get Mike back in here. My intent was to give him a break this past weekend anyways. It turns 
see JACKSON/page 14 







