
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Former baseball player focuses on charity 


By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
On the baseball field, Hank Aaron opened new doors for African-American players. After retiring in 1967, he continued to expand opportunities for others through entrepreneurship and humanitarianism. 
Aaron, a baseball Hall of Fam­er, and his former business part­ner Frank Belatti, an adjunct pro­fessor at Notre Dame, presented “Athletes, Entrepreneurship and Franchising” at the Mendoza Col­lege of Business in the Jordan Au­ditorium Tuesday evening. 
The two spoke about helping others through both direct char­ity and properly run business in the final installment of Entre­preneurial Insights, a fall lecture series that held 11 lectures this semester. 
Aaron said he hoped to be re­membered most for helping oth­ers achieve their dreams. 
“Coming from an isolated city in Alabama, I wanted to play baseball badly and I chased that dream,” he said. “I decided after I retired I’d do everything I could to help some child or someone chase their dreams.” 
Aaron and his wife, Billye Williams, established the Hank Aaron Chasing the Dream Foun­dation to support ambitious youth in 1994. 
The foundation struggled in its early years, he said. 
“The foundation was just fud­dling around and we weren’t making much money. But my wife … said she would have a birthday party for me and would handle it,” Aaron said. “She went to Coca Cola and other companies … and the night of the dinner we made over a million dollars. 
“The money and having the President of the United States, Bill Clinton, at my dinner was a blessing. We needed this money badly.” 
Aaron said the foundation awarded 755 grants to deserving 


see AARON/page 3 

Students deal with stress, prepare for finals week 
Bodies react to finals with stress, director suggests ways to cope 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
The week of non-stop ex­ams, papers and presentations known as finals is enough to make even the most level­headed student feel a bit on edge. According to Catherine DeCleene, director of Women’s Health at Saint Mary’s College, stress is the body’s natural re­sponse to these psychological demands. 
“When our bodies and minds deal with stress on a constant basis, it starts tak 
see STRESS/page 5 




Students get ready for finals week, search for open study space 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN and SUSAN HEAD 
Associate News Editor and News Writer 
For some students, end of the semester responsibilities make Christmastime feel anything but the most wonderful time of the year. 
Students across Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campuses cope with these demands using different strategies and meth­ods. 
St. Mary’s sophomore Bry­anna Hillary strives to tackle assignments in advance of due 
see FINALS/page 5 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Juniors Brenna Blakey (left) and Adrienne Runge study in LaFortune Student Center Tuesday evening. With finals week coming up, many students are experiencing heightened amounts of stress. 
Dean to leave Mendoza for Catholic Relief Services 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Dean Carolyn Woo will con­tinue to live Notre Dame’s mis­sion after she leaves the Men­doza College of Business to become president and CEO of Catholic Relief Services (CRS) at the end of the month. 
“I think that is the Notre Dame message: to go out and be of service to those who need you,” Woo said. “I see it as a privilege to be able to do that work with a group of people who are extremely dedicated and extremely good at what they do.” 
Woo has been dean of Men­doza for 14 years. She had served as audit committee chair at CRS for six years be­fore being offered the position of President and CEO. 

“When the invitation came to be a candidate, at first I did not think I was an appropri­ate candidate because I do not have an international relief background,” she said. “But I prayed and went through the process of screening and then was offered the job.” 
Having spent her entire ca­reer in academics except for a two-year period, Woo said she went through a period of in­tense reflection prior to mak­ing her decision to leave. 
“It’s not easy to leave your own comfort zone,” Woo said. 
“I will be leaving my comfort zone in a big way, from some­thing I know very well and have done for most of my life to a very new sector of work in international relief.” 
Woo said she was concerned about whether she will become skilled at her new position quickly enough. The atmo­sphere surrounding CRS dif­fers greatly from the relatively isolated atmosphere of Notre Dame, she said. 
“[Notre Dame] is not an open environment in the sense of having a lot of disturbances or being subjected to a lot of en­vironmental uncertainty,” she 
see WOO/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student Christmas Dinner page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Holiday fashion page 10 u Women’s basketball prepares for conference opener page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW WOULD YOU PUNISH THE PHOTOGRAPHER WHO WAS TOO BUSY TO DO THE QUESTION OF THE DAY TODAY? 

asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
John Cameron Mel Flanagan Jillian Barwick 
Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 
Photo 
Suzanna Pratt 
Sports 

Molly Sammon Joe Monardo Mike Monaco 
Scene 

Marissa Frobes 
Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 
Casey Craft  Michael Ferguson  J.J. Sass  Jason Lovell  Elizabeth Davis  Eric Fahrenbach  
senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
off campus  Morrissey  Stanford  off campus  off campus  off campus  
“Force them to  “Leave them  “Make them  “Publish an  “Make them eat  “Make them eat  
go to Christmas dinner at 6 p.m.”  on Duck Island overnight.”  listen to Justin Bieber’s “Misteltoe” over  embarrassing picture of them in the question  olives. I hate olives”  at North Dining Hall.”  
and over again.”  of the day.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Disarmed grenades found in woman’s luggage at airport 
NEW YORK — Authorities at Newark Liberty Airport in New Jersey discovered five disarmed grenades in the lug­gage of a woman seeking to board a flight to Belgium, the Transportation Security Ad­ministration said on Monday. 
The TSA said baggage screeners had found the gre­nades while X-raying the woman’s checked luggage on Saturday. 
TSA spokeswoman Lisa Farbstein said the woman, who has not been named, surrendered the items to au­thorities without incident and was then allowed to board the flight. Farbstein did not say why the woman was carrying 
LOCAL WEATHER 
the grenades. 
Port Authority Police has law enforcement authority over the airport and said on Monday they were not called in for the incident. 
Welfare recipient resides in million-dollar home 
SEATTLE, W.A. — A Seattle woman who is receiving wel­fare assistance from Wash­ington state also happens to live in a waterfront house on Lake Washington worth more than a million dollars. 
Federal agents raided the home this weekend but have not released the woman or her husband’s name because they have not officially been charged with a crime. 
However, federal docu­ments obtained by KING 5 News show the couple cur­rently receives more than $1,200 a month in public housing vouchers, plus state and government disability checks and food stamps. They have been receiving the ben­efits since 2003. 
The 2,500 square-foot home, which includes gardens and a boat dock, is valued at $1.2 million. And even though the couple has been receiv­ing the benefits for nearly 10 years, records show that they accurately listed the address of their current home when applying for the state and fed­eral benefits. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Holiday Pottery Sale is continuing today from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Riley Hall of Art. Contact the Department of Art, Art History & Design if you have any further ques­tions about the event. 
The College of Science is hosting a dodgeball tourna­ment for all members of the Notre Dame community today from 3 to 7 p.m. in Rolf’s on the all-purpose court on the lower level. People interest­ed in participating can form teams of about 6 to 8 play­ers to raise funds that will go towards Notre Dame’s Pink Zone. An ND-inspired prize will be given to the team that raises the most money. 
The semi-annual Schmitt Lecture is today from 4 to 
5:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Conference Center in McKen­na Hall. The lecture is titled, “The Primary Good: Priori­tizing Health in a Liberal De­mocracy,” and will be hosted by Yuval Levin, Hertog Fellow of the Ethics and Public Policy Center. A reception will fol­low. 
Professor David Hernan­dez, assistant professor of Classics, will present his find­ings from his summer spent excavating in Albania today in Room 310 in DeBartolo Hall from 5 to 6 p.m. 
The final Graduate Stu­dent Ice Cream Social for the semester is tonight from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Fischer Graduate Community Cen­ter. The social is sponsored by Campus Ministry. Families are welcome! 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 









CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 30 LOW 27 
HIGH 34 LOW 26 
HIGH 30 LOW 22 

HIGH 29 LOW 25 
HIGH 40 LOW 29 

Students enjoy Christmas Dinner 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Food Services decked the dining halls Tues­day night for the annual Student Christmas Dinner, a tradition senior Susan Garabedian antici­pates each year. 
“I’ve been looking forward to this,” she said at Tuesday’s meal. “I told all my roommates that we had to go together.” 
Staff did their part to make the meal special. Christmas music played, red and green Hershey’s Kisses adorned the tables and a Christmas tree and Santa Claus ice sculpture were displayed. The Handbell Choir performed carols at 6 p.m. 
North Dining Hall’s Christmas Dinner featured red and green candles, garland and poinset­tias. 
Garabedian said she enjoyed the festivity of her meal at South Dining Hall. 
“I enjoy sharing a Christmas meal with my best friends,” she said. “It’s my favorite dining hall day of the year.” 
Garabedian and her room­mates brought some holiday cheer of their own, donning Santa Claus hats. 
“We thought about dressing up but decided to go festive in­stead,” said senior Adriana Tay­lor, Garabedian’s roommate. 
John Ritschard, a University employee, said he has swiped students’ ID cards at South Din­ing Hall at four Christmas Din­ners. 
“It’s the best dinner of the year, especially the decorations and prime rib and all the trim­mings,” he said. “They do all the good stuff, and everybody on campus looks forward to the evening because it’s really spe­cial.” 
Christmas Dinners are much busier than other dinners in the dining halls, Ritschard said. He said the menu, featuring prime rib and swordfish, is the same every year. 
“Like I say, it’s always good food for good people,” Ritschard said. 
John Ritschard’s wife, Lila Ritschard, also swiped students’ ID cards at Christmas Dinner. She said the meal was “fabu­lous.” 

“You just can’t beat it, es­pecially for the price,” Lila Ritschard said. “It’s more elabo­rate [than other dinners],” she added. “It’s more in line with the candlelight dinners after football.” 
Sophomore Lance Mulcahey said he attended last year’s Christmas Dinner as well. 
“I think the food is spectacu­lar, considering the standard of the dining hall food,” Mulca­hey said. “Although [the food is usually] good, this kicks it up a notch.” 
Sophomore Kim Halstead said she really enjoyed the meal. 
“Overall, I really, heartily en­joy the decorations, especially the glistening Santa Clause [ice sculpture],” she said. “The at­mosphere in general is warm and inviting, and I want to steal that Santa Claus and keep it in my fridge.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

College hosts holiday craft show for charity 


By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OSCE) will offer students an opportuni­ty to get away from finals studies for a few hours this Friday when it holds its fifth annual Christmas Craft Show. 
The OSCE’s 12 Days of Christ­mas program uses the show to raise money for families and in­dividuals in the South Bend area with holiday gifts and necessities. 
According to a Nov. 4 press re­lease, the Reignbeaux and Sta­pleton lounges will be filled with over 50 booths, including local and regional crafters. Each ven­dor’s booth fee will go to the pro­gram, while vendors may choose to donate a portion of their pro­ceeds as well. 
Carrie Call, director for OSCE, discussed the impact of the show on local families in the press re­lease. 
“We support the community by supporting the local artists, and we support families in need through the 12 Days program,” Call said. 
Denise Veatch, a staff assistant 
Aaron 
continued from page 1 
youths, one for each of his home runs. He said the challenge of running the foundation in addi­tion to his restaurant and auto businesses offered valuable les­sons. 
“Going from baseball to busi­ness, the number one rule is you have to put your heart and soul in it. I woke up every morning at five to go to dealerships when I be­gan my automobile businesses,” he said. “The disadvantage is the idea of thinking you’ve been suc­cessful in one, but it doesn’t mean it’s going to transition to the oth­er.” 
The help of friends and busi­ness partners, such as Belatti, led to Aaron’s success, he said. 
“We all talk about how much we can achieve in a lifetime but I look around and say there were teammates on base when I look at those home runs,” Aaron said. “The restaurants weren’t only my doing. God put a blessing on me to have people like [Belatti].” 
Belatti said he met Aaron in 1985 while working on a promo­tion with Major League Baseball. The pair built their business re­lationship based on trust rather than contracts. 
“We shook hands and that is our only contract. That says a in the Communications Studies, Dance and Theatre Department, will be showcasing her jewelry for the first time. 

Veatch said she began mak­ing jewelry for fun around three years ago. Her earrings and bracelets consist of large and small pearls, Swarovski crystals and seed beads. Sets will sell for $25 along with a few individual pieces, she said. 
“I put a lot of hard work and love into each piece. It brings me peace and happiness to do this and see someone else enjoy my work,” Veatch said. 
Junior Kari McClowry plans to be a repeat customer at the show. McClowry said the show is a win-win for students and local families benefitting from the pro­ceeds. 
“The craft show enlivens the holiday spirit across campus,” she said. “The proceeds bring the holiday spirit to the community in which we reside.” 
The Christmas Craft Show will run from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m. at Le Mans Hall. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 
good deal about how honorable Hank Aaron is and about the power of a handshake,” Belatti said. “The power of a handshake is an incredible thing.” 
Since then, the two worked to develop a business model with a contemporary and competitive backbone, Belatti said. Sustain­able models created jobs with a sense of personal ownership and ended the cycle of disenfranchise­ment, he said. 
“Create jobs that you believe are highly sustainable and have an aspect of ownership. Change the mindset,” he said. “Part of a change in the social strata and economic strata might not other­wise happen.” 
Belatti said trust was important in running a business. He met with each franchise they worked with to establish a sense of trust. 
“For every franchisee who came into the system, I had them come to my office so I can meet them face-to-face. I wanted to shake their hand and make them a promise,” he said. “I gave them my home phone number so if they ever need me, they can call me di­rectly.” 
Belatti said Aaron was a true entrepreneur. Aaron created op­portunities for others rather than focusing on revenue, he said. 
“An entrepreneur is willing to put his or her career on the line and take risks in the name of an idea and an ideal. Hank often talks about how many new man­agers, owners and jobs he’s cre­ated,” Belatti said. “We don’t talk as much about the money.” 
Aaron said his experience in baseball and entrepreneurship taught him two things: creating opportunities for others was es­sential to addressing economic and social issues and there are no shortcuts to success. 
“You may not ever hit a single home run but the thing you have to remember is you can always be a great doctor, lawyer, teach­er or someone great. You’ve got to crawl, got to walk, got to take your time to get where you’re go­ing,” Aaron said. “And believe me, you do have time.” 
Contact Nicole toczauer at       ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Stress 
continued from page 1 
ing a toll, both physically and mentally,” she said. 
DeCleene said stress is a normal part of life that can sometimes have benefits. 
“At its best, stress provides us with the means to express our talent and energy to pur­sue those 
health.” 

DeCleene said unrelated stress-inducing events can compound the effects. 
“Very often, the physiologi­cal and psychological reac­tions to stress will tend to interact and react with one another to produce additional stress,” she said. 
Developing coping mecha­nisms is crucial to avoiding potentially serious complica­
tions, she 
things we want,” she said. “It can compel us to action and fo­cus our inten­ “The demands of a college student are intense in a number of areas: academic stress, social stress and financial  said. “If we don’t begin to im­plement cop­ing or stress-r e duc t i o n  
tions.” A l t h o u g h stress can focus a stu­dent’s ef­forts, it can also nega­ stress. For some college studets, stress adds up to the point where it starts to negatively affect their physical and emotional health.”  strategies at this point, the stress can build to the point where more serious phys­ 
tivelyone’s  affect  wellbe- Catherine DeCleene  ical and emo­tional prob­ 
ing, DeCleene  director  lems appear,”  
said. “The  de­ Women’s Health  she said. W h i  l  e  
mands  of  a  there  are  

college student are intense in similarities to the stress col­a number of areas: academic lege men and women both deal stress, social stress and fi-with, some stress is worse for nancial stress,” she said. “For women. some college students, stress “According to statistics col-adds up to the point where lected from the American Col-it starts to negatively affect lege Health Association, 91 their physical and emotional percent of female college stu-dents reported feeling over­whelmed by all they had to do in the previous 12 months, 14 percentage points higher than college men,” she said. 


One of the ways women deal with stress differently than men is through seeking sup­portive relationships. 
“Findings suggest that while women are more likely to re­port physical symptoms as­sociated with stress, they are doing a better job connecting with others in their lives and, at times, these connections are important to their stress management strategies,” she said. 
Both men and women de­fault to some unideal common coping mechanisms, DeCleene said. 
“In general, though, both men and women tend to choose sedentary activities like read­ing, listening to music and watching television to man­age their stress over healthier behaviors like seeing a mental health professional or exercis­ing,” she said. 
DeCleene said some easy stress relieving strategies are taking breaks, making a list of goals, asking for help and par­ticipating in a fun activity. 
“Make sure you have some fun to break up the work,” she said. “Maintain a hobby, join a team, [or] spend time with friends.” 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Woo 
continued from page 1 
said. “I will be going from an environment that is somewhat stable to an environment which is a lot more open-ended.” 
Because CRS is part of the Catholic Church, Woo said she found comfort in the fact she will still be able to follow in the mission of Christ. 
“I want to work to bring Christ to people who really need help, assistance and a better shot at life,” Woo said. 
“To be able to serve people who are re­ally poor and vulnerable, who could re­ally use a lot [of help] and a more stable way of life so they can really have dignity and some level of security that allows people joy.” 
Despite her excitement wonderful gift.” 

Woo said she has enjoyed working with the faculty and staff of Mendoza during its climb to the number one un­dergraduate business school in the country. To her, the most important aspect of the achievement is that Notre Dame never abandoned its Catholic principles. 
“We never traded off or di­minished or deemphasized our Catholic identity,” Woo said. “That was the most impor­tant goal, commitment to our mission, and the fact that we achieved number one while 
“I will miss the rhythm of lots of students with lots of ideas, and then they progress and grow in significant and dramatic ways and then they graduate and another generation comes in.” 
Carolyn Woo dean Mendoza College of Business 
about the future, Woo said she will miss working with stu­dents. 
“I will miss the rhythm of lots of students with lots of ideas, and then they progress and grow in significant and dramatic ways and then they graduate and another genera­tion comes in,” she said. “To see those different waves of growth and the dynamism and the professional growth you get to see in your students, that’s a em braci ng our mission means the world to me.” 

Woo re­mains confi­dent Mendoza will continue to grow in her absence. 
“I feel like Mendoza is in a really good spot and I’m not leaving it in difficulty,” she said. “I’m leaving it in the strongest 
position ever, so it is time then to work on other services.” 
Associate Dean Roger Huang will act as interim dean of Mendoza while Notre Dame searches for a permanent suc­cessor. 
“My advice to the next dean would be to stay faithful to the mission,” she said. “That will drive everything else.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

Finals 
continued from page 1 
dates to avoid the stress of last minute rushes. 
“I need to confront stress right away so that I can avoid the building up of it,” she said. “I’ll write a paper as soon as it’s assigned even if it’s not due for a month just so I won’t have to think about it.” 
Many of Hillary’s peers, like sophomore Jordan Diffend­erfer, are less eager to cross things off the to-do list. 
“I just pretend that I am not stressed,” she said. “[I] put it off and then I have a lot to do hours before it is due.” 
Notre Dame senior Mike Ro­dio said he’s learned to better deal with finals stress over the years, but doesn’t necessarily have time to start work earlier. 
“Generally, I used to be a lot more stressed out around fi­nals, freshman and sophomore year, but now I kind of realize that you can be stressed or you can be totally relaxed about it, but the work remains the same,” he said. 
Rodio said finding a quiet study spot around finals time is difficult, so he steers clear of the usual locations. 
“I don’t even bother with La-Fun or the library because not only are they crowded but they kind of have that stressed out feeling,” he said. 
He said he prefers to study in the basement of Keenan Hall, where there are fewer distrac­tions. 
“There’s no windows so you don’t realize how late it is when the sun is coming up and you’re still finishing your ing Hall next Monday, 10 p.m. paper,” Rodio said. “If I were to 12 a.m. Students can enjoy to go to anywhere else I’d go to a pause from studying with the music rooms in Crowley.” school-themed snacks, games, 
Notre Dame senior Kelsey coloring and origami. Clemson said the key to effec-From now through the last tive study is constantly rotat-day of finals, the Hesburgh Li­
ing your study­ brary  will  
ing location. “The change of surround­ings helps me to stay on task and not feel like I’m being punished by  “The change of surroundings helps me to stay on task and not feel like I’m being punished by having timeout in the library or something.”  be open 24 hours a day. From Dec. 12 to Dec. 14 the H a m m e s Notre Dame Bookstore,  
having timeout in the library or something,”  Kelsey Clemson senior  Leep Varsity Shop and Irish Hock- 

she said. “Also for test-takers, changing where you study ac­tually helps you to have bet­ter memory retrieval during tests.” 
St. Mary’s junior Mary Parks said keeping workspaces open later at the College would make last minute work more man­ageable. She said for late night crammers, finding a study space can be a challenge. 
“I think my stress level would decrease if the library could be open past midnight, even if only during the last week of classes and finals week,” she said. 
While Saint Mary’s may not cater to the procrastinating set, the College will be offering numerous study break options next week. 
Saint Mary’s Annual Finals Week Late Night Breakfast, a complimentary meal prepared for students by faculty, admin­istrators and staff, will be of­fered Monday. 
Notre Dame will hold its 2011 Study Break in South Din­ey Shop 
will hold Student Appreciation Days, of­fering coffee for 50 cents and a 10 percent discount on most items. 
For those students hoping for some divine intervention, the Office of Civil and Social En­gagement at St. Mary’s is spon­soring the 12 Days of Christ­mas, which will include nightly Advent Vespers in the Regina Chapel at 6:45 p.m. and a craft show Saturday night. 
Carrie Call, director for the office, said the show offers stu­dents an opportunity to take a break from books and to take in some retail therapy. 
“[The craft show] is a fabu­lous way to reduce your stress, get away from studying, cel­ebrate the end of the semester and buy awesome gifts,” she said. “It will help reduce the stress of Christmas shopping too.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu and Susan Head at shead02@saintmarys.edu 


Volunteers search for missing child in Detroit 
Man accuses Sandusky of abuse 


Associated Press 
DETROIT — Stepping ginger­ly among mounds of discarded tires, piles of soggy clothing and nail-pierced wood boards, Makibla Gideon’s head swept from side to side in search of a purple toddler’s jacket or pink shirt — any remnant that could have been worn by a 2-year-old Detroit girl whose father claims was taken during carjacking. 
“You have to put all that aside when it comes to a precious little girl,” said the 39-year­old Gideon, barely avoiding oily pools of filthy rain water in one of dozens of alleys not far from where Bianca Jones is reported to have last been seen. 
More than three dozen vol­unteers searching for Bianca fanned out in small groups of five to 10 Monday morning through the North End neigh­borhood, while police contin­ued to pore over D’Andre Lane’s version of how his car was taken during a robbery Friday morning with his daughter in the rear seat. 
“If it was my son or me miss­ing I would want somebody looking for me,” said Gideon, moments before peering inside a trash-filled and nearly col­lapsed garage only blocks from where police found Lane’s car. 
She and others who can­vassed the area amid 30-de­gree temperatures that eventu­ally gave way to snow returned a couple hours later to Met­ropolitan United Methodist Church, many tired but vowing to try again Tuesday if neces­sary. 
Lane, 32, was being held in nearby Oakland County on an outstanding warrant from an unrelated case. But Undersher­iff Mike McCabe said Monday afternoon that Lane had been released. 
Detroit Police Chief Ralph Godbee said Sunday investi­gators were questioning the truthfulness of Lane’s story. Police also searched his home Monday morning, but declined to provide details. 
No suspects have been identi­fied related to the alleged car­jacking. 
“The search for Bianca Jones is ongoing and continues to be of the highest priority relative to our commitment of dedi­cated resources to this case,” Godbee said in a statement. “The Detroit Police Department will not comment on the quan­tity nor the quality of any evi­dence or information we have gathered to date. However, in the interest of allaying some of the fears of the public regard­ing the apparent randomness of Bianca’s disappearance, the authenticity and credibility of the original version of events is under intense scrutiny by our investigative team.” 

Lane’s lawyer said his client has been straightforward with police and will be so in the fu­ture. 
“He is a loving father,” Terry 
L. Johnson said Monday night. 

“Contrary to media reports, Mr. Lane has fully cooperated and will continue to cooperate with police agencies to assure the safe return of his daughter, Bianca Jones,” Johnson said. 
Banika Jones, the girl’s mother, said before the search began that she last saw her daughter Nov. 26, when fam­ily and friends celebrated her birthday. Jones said Lane had taken Bianca to see a movie, brought her back to her moth­er’s house for the party and then the girl left with her fa­ther. 
“Please continue to keep searching for Bianca,” Banika Jones said. “We love her and we want her home. Bianca, Mommy has lots and lots of gin­gerbread men for you when you get home.” 
According to Michigan pris­on records, Lane was jailed for more than three years on drug and firearm possession charg­es stemming from a 2003 ar­rest and was paroled in 2007. He also served a more than four-year probation starting in 1996 after being convicted of assault with intent to commit armed robbery and a conspir­acy charge. 
A pre-sentencing investiga­tion report from 2007 shows that Lane, a father of three oth­er children from three previous relationships, sought to shield his incarceration from his chil­dren. A probation officer wrote that Lane did not want his chil­dren to come to see him in pris­on because it was not a place for them to visit. 
Banika Jones said Lane has a good relationship with Bianca, who is described as 2 feet, 5 inches tall and weighing about 25 pounds, with brown eyes and black hair. 
“He has unfettered access to her; welcome to come any­time,” she said. “He’s never been anything but loving and committed to her. I know he probably wants to see Bianca home as much as I do. 
“I have no information on the investigation. My focus is on finding Bianca. That is what I’m driven to do right now is bring my daughter home. I just want to see Bianca again. 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE — A 19-year-old man has filed a complaint with state police al­leging he was sexually abused by Jerry Sandusky after the former coach gave him liquor on the Penn State campus in 2004, the accuser’s lawyer said Tuesday. 
Charles Schmidt said the client, whom he did not iden­tify, went to his law firm about three weeks ago, after San­dusky was charged with sexu­ally abusing eight boys over a 15-year period. 
“He suffered one incident of abuse, to use the legal term 
— involuntary deviate sexual intercourse — allegedly at the hands of Mr. Sandusky,” Schmidt said. “That occurred on the Penn State campus, we believe in the area of the foot­ball facilities.” 
Sandusky’s lawyer, Joseph Amendola, said he was un­familiar with the allegations Schmidt was making. 
The new claim came the day a lawyer for another young man who accused San­dusky of sexual abuse said he expects his client and at least five other accusers to tes­tify at a preliminary hearing next week. 
The lawyer said he has in­formation that the six young men whose testimony before a grand jury contributed to a report detailing allegations against Sandusky will be called to testify next Tuesday. The attorney spoke to The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity because he said he is trying to ensure his client’s identity isn’t revealed publicly. 
Sandusky is charged with 40 counts of child sex abuse, and prosecutors allege he met his victims through a charity he founded in 1977 to help at-risk children, The Second Mile. Sandusky, 67, denies being a pedophile and has vowed to fight the charges. In interviews with NBC and The New York Times, he has said he show­ered and horsed around with boys but never sexually abused them. 
The existence of Schmidt’s client was first reported by WHP-TV in Harrisburg. 
Schmidt told the AP that his client was 12 years old, dealing with the death of his mother and suffering emotional issues at the time of the campus inci­dent. The lawyer said the two met through The Second Mile and his client claims Sandusky gave him liquor while in the office on campus. The grand jury report did not allege any instances of Sandusky giving boys alcohol. 
Schmidt said his law firm is conducting its own investiga­tion into the client’s claims. 



‘Holiday’ tree causes controversy 


Children ask Santa to help others during recession 


Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE — Carolers singing “O Christmas Tree” crashed Rhode Island’s State­house tree lighting on Tues­day after Gov. Lincoln Chafee unwrapped a holiday hubbub by calling the 17-foot spruce a “holiday” tree. 
Chafee insisted his word choice was inclusive and in keeping with Rhode Island’s founding as a sanctuary for religious diversity. But his sea­sonal semantics incensed some lawmakers, the Roman Catho­lic Church and thousands of people who called his office to complain that the independent governor was trying to secular­ize Christmas. 
“He’s trying to put our reli­gion down,” said Ken Schiano of Cranston, who came to the tree lighting after hearing about the controversy. “It’s a Christmas tree. It always has been and it always will be, no matter what that buffoon says it is.” 
Chafee did not address the several hundred people who filled the Statehouse to watch the tree lighting. Afterward, he said he was surprised by the heated reaction to his word choice. Chafee argues that he is simply honoring Rhode Island’s origins as a sanctuary for reli­gious diversity. Religious dis­sident Roger Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636 as a haven for tolerance, where govern­ment and religion would for­ever be kept separate. Chafee’s immediate predecessor also referred to Statehouse trees as “holiday” trees. 
“If it’s in my house it’s a Christmas tree, but when I’m representing all of Rhode Is­land I have to be respectful of everyone,” Chafee said after the tree lighting. “Now we can get back to next year’s budget ... with pleasure.” 

After Chafee lit the “holiday” tree, a few dozen carolers inter­rupted a performance by a chil­dren’s chorus to sing “O Christ­mas Tree.” The dispute also prompted the Providence dio­cese to schedule a competing Christmas tree lighting a block from the Statehouse. A Repub­lican state lawmaker erected a tree in a Statehouse hallway to give Rhode Island residents an alternative to the official state “holiday” tree. 
After the flap made national news, Chafee’s office received 3,500 calls of protest, with all but 700 coming from out of state. According to a tally by Chafee’s spokeswoman, his of­fice received only 92 calls sup­porting his choice of words. 

Associated Press 
RALEIGH — A job for their mom or dad. Money for the heating bill. Food or a place to live. Maybe gloves or boots. 
More and more, Santas say the children on their laps are asking for less for themselves 
— and Santa is promising less as well. 
With unemployment stub­bornly high, more homes in foreclosure and the economic outlook dim, many children who visit Santa are all too aware of the struggle to make ends meet. 
“These children under­stand the conditions around the home when they ask for stuff,” said Richard Holden, a 69-year-old Santa from Gas­tonia, N.C. “They understand when there are other children in the family, they need to be cautious or thoughtful of them as well and not ask for 10 to 12 items.” 
Cliff Snider, who’s been playing Santa since he was a teenager, agrees. 
“I think the parents are say­ing, ‘It’s an economic thing. Just list two to three things you really want to have,’” he said. “Parents are trying to encourage the children to be thrifty.” 
And the 64-year-old Snid­er does his best to help out. When he gets a big-ticket re­quest, he typically responds: “There’s an awful lot of chil­dren asking for that this year. What else do you want?” 
At the Charles W. Howard Santa Claus School, Santas learn lines like, “Wow, that’s a big gift. Is there anything else you might like?” 
These days, though, Santas are having to use it less and less. 
“I think it’s becoming more popular not to have that long list,” said Tom Valent, dean of the Howard Santa school in Midland, Mich., which gets more than 3,000 letters to Santa a year and just gradu­ated its 75th class. “Families are teaching their children to be as much of a giver as a re­ceiver.” 
Starlight Fonseca has been teaching her five children, ages 5 to 14, “that we’re not the only ones who have to cut things back. We’re not the only ones struggling.” 
The 31-year-old mother and her husband Jose had been relying on a stipend from the University of Texas law school that Fonseca lost when an ill­ness made it impossible for her to keep her grades up. She’d hoped to graduate in May but was unable to attend school this semester and can’t get student loans due to poor credit. 
Fonseca tells her kids that “to make it fair for everyone, Santa has to cut back for ev­eryone. ... We paint it in a way that Santa is doing the best he can to make everybody happy at Christmas.” 
It’s especially hard for the oldest children. 
“They were two little kids who used to be excited about Christmas, and now they know every gift under the tree should have gone to the utility company,” she said. “It shouldn’t be that way, but that’s where we are now.” 
Of course, Santas still see some kids like the 9-year-old who pulled out a BlackBerry and showed Snider photos of all the things he wanted. “It cracked me up,” he said. 
Holden’s response to a long list is to say something like, “Why don’t you narrow this down just a little bit and choose two or three items you would really like?” Sometimes he’ll even mention prices, and say, “With things like they are, Santa Claus will do what he can to help you get what you like. But we can’t make you any promises.” 
Tim Connaghan, who runs the International University for Santa Claus in Riverside, Calif., conducts an annual survey among the 500 Santas he employs. The economy has become such a big issue that Connaghan asked them for ad­vice on how to handle some of the questions kids were ask­ing about unemployed parents or having to move. 
“Let’s all hope your dad will find a new job, or you will get into a new home,” is one rec­ommended response. 
“Acknowledge the problem, give them a positive response and say, ‘Santa loves you, too. Maybe I could get something special for you,’” said Con­naghan. “It’s that quick, usu­ally. But the hope is that when the child leaves, he feels a lit­tle better.” 
Connaghan recalled the night he and other Santas took some needy children shopping. One boy wanted to buy toilet paper because his mother was taking napkins and paper towels from a fast food restaurant for toilet pa­per. 
“He wanted to buy her real toilet paper — a common, ev­eryday item that we all take for granted,” Connaghan said. “And this child is thinking this is a Christmas gift.” 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, December 7, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Santo legacy 
News broke Monday afternoon that the Baseball Hall-of-Fame’s Golden Era Committee had elected legendary Chi­cago Cubs third-baseman Ron Santo for induction, as he garnered 93.8 percent of the vote. While I am a diehard Chi­cago White Sox fan, I was still very happy with the news. Santo, who died at age 70 on Dec. 3, 2010, from complications due to bladder cancer and pneumonia, always meant a lot to my fa­ther, my brother and I as baseball fans. 
My brother and I never had the privilege of watching San­to patrol the hot corner, as he retired from baseball in 1974, but our father re­galed us with tales of his heroics. There is a pennant hanging in our family’s basement that honors the career of the nine-time All-Star and five-time Gold Glove winner. My father always joked about me being both a White Sox fan and a Santo fan, as Santo’s career ended rather unceremoniously as a member of the Pale Hose. 
Santo joined the Cubs’ broadcast booth in 1990 as the WGN radio color commentator. His time in the broadcast both cemented the fact that he was one of the biggest Cubs fans in the world. My father, brother and I always enjoyed listening to the broadcasts, as he always brought shameless broadcast enthusi­asm — from grunts and sighs when the Cubs were not playing well to cheers and applause when the team was win­ning. He brought certain intricacies to the booth that became beloved through­out the Cubs’ fan base, such as his inability to pronounce certain players’ names, his passionate hatred for Shea Stadium and occasionally forgetting how players reached a certain base. 
I will never forget being 13 years old on Sept. 28, 2003 and watching a Cubs pregame ceremony at Wrigley Field where the organization retired Santo’s No. 10 jersey. Santo was the third Cub to ever have his number retired, joining the ranks of Hall-of-Famers Ernie Banks and Billy Williams (Ferguson Jenkins, Greg Maddux and Ryne Sandberg have since joined). What I will remember the most about that ceremony is that Santo, who had been disappointed by Hall-of-Fame voting results multiple times, said with a certain honesty that having his number retired by his beloved organiza­tion was “his Hall-of-Fame.” 
One of the major reasons I always respected Santo was due to his struggle with Type-1 diabetes. He learned of his diagnosis at the age of 18, but he care­fully concealed that information until he acknowledged it publically when the Cubs held “Ron Santo Day” at Wrigley Field in August of 1971. Never using his disease as a crutch, even after having both legs amputated below the knee in 2001 and 2002, Santo endorsed the Juvenile Diabetes Research Founda­tion’s annual Ron Santo Walk to Cure Diabetes in Chicago from 1974 until his death, and raised over $40 million for the foundation. 
Even though Santo is gone, he will never be forgotten. I guarantee that a strong contingent of the Cub faithful will be making the journey to Cooperstown for his enshrinement this coming July and that is a beautiful thing because I am certain there is nothing he would have wanted more. 
Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Behind Anonymous 
Anonymous is the inciter. Anonymous is the underground poet, the published author. Anonymous is the coward, the bigot and the bully. Anonymous is the well-wisher, the tipster and the answer. Anonymous is conviction. Anony­mous is safety. Anonymous is the masked, intention­ally and unin­tentionally done. Anonymous is the fear of repercus­sion. Anonymous is the advantage of the eloquent. Anonymous is the good and the bad of human opinion. Anonymous is name­less, faceless, and lost. 
Anonymous can be everyone and everyone can be Anonymous. The ques­tion is, “Should we?” 
There are many characters, but only two distinct forms can lie behind the guise of Anonymous. Both human forms deserve credit for their words, which the moniker Anonymous shields from any direct response. The first form is the humble one. The second form is the coward. 
Anonymous the Humble writes for the sake of writing. Anonymous the Humble contributes his or her words to the library of human invention. Some of the most brilliant quotations for inspiration are of anonymous author­ship, claimed by no single person and owned by everyone. Perhaps the inten­tion of recognition was not present in the author, perhaps it was not given 

Alex Coccia 
Shard of Glass 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
by the audience. Whatever the case may be, Anonymous the Humble is not given or does not seek the credit he or she is due. Anonymous the Humble can also be seen in testimonials or witness statements, doing what he or she can to make a situation better. The humble one sees an injustice and instead of put­ting his or her name before the cause, contributes to its goals by spilling forth the heartfelt words that might push the cause to fulfillment of the goals. The humble one gives everything and asks for nothing. 
The trick is that Anonymous the Cow­ard can and often does claim the role of Anonymous the Humble. It may seem as though Anonymous the Coward and Anonymous the Humble share the same characteristics. They may both want to present ideas for the benefit of humani­ty. They may both believe firmly in their cause and want to see its goals fulfilled. They may even both write anonymously out of fear of punishment or retribu­tion. One may say it seems like a double standard — that the Humble is not reprimanded for being anonymous while the Coward is. Yet, the difference between the Humble and the Coward is the content of their contributions. 
Anonymous the Coward writes through faceless courage in order to incite destruction, to post confronta­tional subject matter without any fear of confrontation, to bully without fear of being known as one and to insult with the protective thought that when some­one insults back, they are insulting the Coward’s words, and not the Coward himself. Like alcohol as liquid courage, anonymity also provides a vehicle for which people can say what they might not otherwise say. This written form of liquid courage lets the coward hide. 
But of course that is the reasoning of the coward. Anonymous the Coward does not want to start a conversation to which he or she could contribute fruit­fully. In many cases, the desire to be judged by what he or she declares to be true rather than what belief he or she may have reached through an exchange of views seems noble and necessary. But the content of the coward’s com­ments — the hurtful, disrespectful, disingenuous, thoughtless, spiteful com­ments — says a lot more about who that person is. 
Of course, we are more than our words. Which is exactly why we should claim them. The moment that the words we deem necessary to write are claimed, then we can begin true con­versation. The words are then animated with a sense of life, because they have been given a human soul within which they can rest. If they are your words and you truly believe them, claim them. If they are your absolute convictions, or even your acknowledgment of a pro­gression of thought, claim them. If they are meant to be a part of constructive conversation, claim them. Claim them. Otherwise, do not write them. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He appreciates the conversations he has in the Student Welfare and Development Lounge. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“After I’m dead I’d rather have people ask why I have no monument than why I have one.” 
Cato the Elder Roman orator and politician 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“I pay no attention whatever to anybody’s praise or blame. I simply follow my own feelings.” 
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Austrian composer 

Wednesday, December 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
College: The biggest scam we’ll ever buy 
We may have been fooled by one of our generation’s biggest scams. In fact, not only do we blindly accept it, but most of us will be working our way out of debt for a decade because of it. It’s a system that penalizes creativity, scatters Mark Anthony our focus thinly be-Rosa tween unrelated er­rands and unasham-Bro Meets edly conditions us World to believe that a few people can tell us how smart we are. 
The scam I’m talking about is col­lege. On the surface, college inhales untrained minds and churns out well-respected mid-level managers, galva­nized by proud relatives and anticipative parents looking to reshape adequate parenting into something employable. The stuff of dreams. But the reality is that college might be a waste of time and energy. And what’s worse is that we idealize this experience as the final frontier for a better, happier, more cre­ative life. 
Rest assured I absolutely love Notre Dame. I love my curriculum, I enjoy my major and I adore my professors. But I absolutely hate, abhor and despise school. 
For the past four years of our lives, we’ve lived in a system where genuine learning takes a back seat and most of our energies are spent figuring out what efforts yield the best grades. We spend each weekday traveling to multiple classes, sitting in lectures, reading un­related textbooks and then we complete assignments and prepare for exams in scattered bursts. Students can barely remember what last month’s tests were on, but can accurately tell you what words teachers circle when awarding A’s or if exams are built around practice tests for courses taken two semesters ago. Somewhere in between, we sleep, eat, make friends, do resume-boosting extracurriculars, figure out who we are and try to have fun. Instead of a four-year experience where we master our majors, what we get is 48 months of moderately-managed cramming split between heavy drinking and applying for stepping-stone internships. College isn’t so much a learning environment as it is a highly-fragmented to-do list. 
And, while the education experience is up to students, the actual practices and learning points reinforced are complete­ly out of our hands. We can learn all we want, but GPA is the end-all on how well we understand material and, subse­quently, prepare around it. How we learn must conform around a pre-deter­mined, intentionally limiting structure and someone must tell us exactly how well we know the material before mov­ing on. I have zero say in just how much I “get” something because my success is evaluated around a rigid grading rubric cemented in 2006. And it’s retention, not comprehension, that’s evaluated on a percentage scale, like I’m some sort of battery with an exact percentage of knowledge accumulated. I can read mul­tiple books about a subject, but if I didn’t remember the exact name of the cat involved in American court case from 1799 about property taxes for an exam, it’s pretty clear that I didn’t master the material. It’s the Pavlov’s Dog psychol­ogy experiment, where students are conditioned to memorize bolded words and last paragraphs of assignments in order to prove material competence to someone else. 
Of course, it’s easy to be sarcastic about college. It’s such a multifaceted institution that any pissed-off student can list off arguments against it. We may not remember all of the details from every lesson plan, but we are retaining far more than we’d like to be­lieve. College is a place where students experience different subjects, build terabytes of genuine knowledge and discover academic passions. We mature socially and emotionally, thanks to the countless roommate, dining hall and inter-class social situations that occur at any particular moment. To throw away the value of a college degree is to disre­gard the thousands of subtle skills and philosophies that transformed the high school graduate we no longer recognize in ourselves. 
But these benefits cannot completely justify a system where creativity and genuine learning isn’t properly reward­ed. And in the real world, its creativity and independent thinking that separates the Steve Jobs, the Alexander Flem­mings and the Adam Smiths from the rest of the pack and actually drive the world forward. Unfortunately for us, college has no objective way to reward our out-of-classroom learning, and more often than not, punishes us for pursuing it. Every day, we face a complex trade-off between the major philosophies of how we consume our education. And each time we choose to master an exam rather than a concept, we slowly subdue our inner brilliance in lieu of a well-prepared recall of class deliverables. But, the more we commit ourselves to college, the more stimuli we must man­age, and it’s not easy to write off a cram session in the name of true learning when you’re scoring A’s and making parents proud. 
Is college really a scam? Most likely, no. But, if we entered college with the intention of leaving as creative lead­ers, we shouldn’t be so quick to take our practices and ranking accolades to heart. Maybe, just maybe, the college system isn’t as perfect as we’d like to believe. Maybe, just maybe, we’ve been learning the entirely wrong lessons. 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior man­agement entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Santo’s year 
1990 was an auspicious year for many reasons. Among them was the birth of a soon-to-be strapping young lad at approximately 1:11 in the morning on April 1. Around the same time, all-time Chicago Cubs great Ron Santo began his career broadcasting home games for his former team. 
I was in Dublin last year around this time when Ron Santo passed away. I can’t think of a worse day while I was abroad. I had been raised a Cubs fan from the time I can remember. I had grown up with Ron Santo’s color commentary in the background of every spring, summer and fall. Listening to Ron broadcast was an event in itself. He was one of us. Where other broadcasters excelled in staying calm and impartial, Ron brought the voice of a diehard fan in the booth (which if anyone knows anything about us, there is no other type of Cubs fan). He conveyed ecstasy, the anger and frustration we all felt listening to our team break our hearts like no other. He seemed like he would be there until the Cubs finally won the Series (so forever). I was not ready to never hear Ron call a game again.
 What struck me as the greatest tragedy is that Major League Baseball never came close to validating his posi­tion as one of the greatest third-baseman of all time. His accomplishments on the field more than merited him a place in the Hall of Fame. In addition, Ron Santo played while diagnosed with type-1 diabetes.  Since retirement, Santo became an ambassador for diabetes research, rais­ing an estimated $40 million toward finding a cure to a disease which would eventually claim both of his legs. And throughout his life filled with adversity and setbacks, he had to suffer the ignominy of being routinely snubbed admission to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Never inducting Santo to the Hall of Fame in his lifetime will forever be one of the great sins of Major League Baseball. 
The news of Santo’s long overdue induction into the Hall of Fame finally ends one of the great tragic cycles in baseball. Santo will finally be remembered as the legend he was on the field and still is to those of us who grew up living and dying with him broadcasting the outcome of Cubs games. The decision of the Golden Era committees rights one of the most egregious wrongs in baseball. In an era rocked by one sporting scandal after another, it is great to finally hear a story like this that all sports fans can take solace in knowing that some things are right with the sports world. You deserve it, Ron. Thanks again for the memories, and I agree: This year is our year. 
Peter Elliott 
senior 
Siegfried Hall 
Dec. 6 

UWIRE Why hippies cannot serve as economists 
With fat tuition bills about to appear in mailboxes across the country, student debt and the cost of college are again at the forefront of everyone’s mind. A particular plan currying favor with the Occupy Wall Street crowd is loan forgiveness, which serves to undermine the integrity William of the financial system in Stetson return for the fluff that it professes. The Daily 
Loan forgiveness is a Evergreen concept where loans, after a certain period of time or if a certain set of cir­cumstances are met, will be forgiven or wiped clean. The program can mean many different things. In this case, loan forgiveness is where student loans are forgiven without any real cause. 
Loan forgiveness can also involve payment by a third party. Given the level of government debt, this is unwise and unlikely. A program such as this would be little more than a back-door tax looking to pay for education without talking about realities. 
This is a pipe dream by a bunch of hippies who fail to understand how loans work. 
Student loans are given by institutions on the concept of a principle plus interest to be amortized during many years. The interest is reflective of many factors, a key one being the risk a student will default on his or her loans. 
Loan forgiveness is a default, minus the hit to a student’s credit that would happen otherwise. It basically wipes the slate clean. 
The student gains, the bank loses. 
By the bank losing money, the institution is forced to make it up somehow because there is no such thing as a free lunch. A loan forgive­ness program is asking the bank to take a hit unless the federal government pays the bank back. 
Occupy Wall Street would prefer it if banks were the ones taking the check. 
In order to make up for forgiveness, banks will be forced to increase interest rates. Banks have to break even in order to operate. These rates will be high enough to harm many stu­dents who had every intention of paying off their debt. 
These rates might also be too high for a loan whatsoever. 
This is where another person without a back­ground in common sense would step in and make a comment on how banks are evil. They would then follow up with the idea of a govern­ment-enforced ceiling on interest rates. 
This idea would also fail to gain traction. 
By setting a government ceiling, rates would not be allowed to exceed a certain amount. Students would pay the lower rate regardless of the actual risk they might default. This would be great except banks would most likely lose money at the rate acceptable to Occupy Wall Street. 
Loan forgiveness strikes at the very core of responsibility. The idea that it is acceptable to shirk a responsibility that someone gave their word to do is just a sign of the unfortunate times we live in. College is expensive. No one denies that point, but banks should not have to take a loss for your education. 
The art of appealing to constituents is often a disgusting one. In this case, a bunch of hippies under the influence are pushing a program further disseminated by propaganda from the Far Left. 
Here is the rebuttal: loans should not be for­given except under extraordinary circumstanc­es. If college is too expensive, schools should consider letting in more students rather than continuing to boast about their student-teacher ratios and how many kids they reject each year. 
Colleges could also cut down on the cost of books and supplies. 
Ultimately, loan forgiveness does little to change the cost of education, it only serves to scapegoat major banks. For this reason, we must pass. 
This article first ran in the Dec. 6 edition of The Daily Evergreen, the daily publication serving Washington State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


There are some seasons of life that exam, tying red bows in your hair If fashion makes you cower in A cashmere sweater may be $130 require something more of us. It is not with the ribbon your mother was fear like a Japanese schoolgirl when retail, while merino wool may be $50. enough simply to go through the daily planning to use to outfit the column in Godzilla invaded, then I am here to Is cashmere worth the extra money? motions, to pass the same people with your living room in proper candy cane help you. My name is Sean Fitzgerald For me, no. But, you will have to the same smile. fashion and forgetting your coat in the and I have a passion for men’s style. make your own decision on this one. Instead, these 
midst of all the shopping rush causing For me, style is Caution: merino wool shrinks so be seasons require 
you to turn into Ms. Frosty the Snow-timeless, afford-careful when you wash it. imagination and 
woman (this last one is particularly able and achiev-Sean Fitzgerald a full-bodied 
altering, trust me). able for the col-commitment to 
While it may seem we need the legiate male. Let’s Scene Writer being absolutely 
elves of Santa Chic to help us fight this face our inner fabulous. 
plight, in reality we have an acces-Godzilla and start Welcome to 
sory that takes us to new imaginative making some stylistic upgrades. Christmas! The heights, vaulting us into a time of decorations are yesteryear when there was nothing to Cargo Pants: Lots of Function, Little up, Starbucks disturb us from tranquil sleigh rides. Form has red Christ-I understand that cargo pants serve mas cups, and a purpose. That purpose is to hold the holidays are things, lots and lots of things. Cargo calling fashionistas to our favorite pants are the ultimate choice for activity — shopping! It is indeed the functional apparel. They have twelve most wonderful time of the year. gazillion pockets and work well in 
However, let’s face it, as multi-the outdoors. Going camping? Bring talented as we women of the 21st them.  Going to class? Not a fan. century are, we seem particularly subject at this time of the year to a The Suggestion: Corduroys certain ailment I like to call “styling-If you want to be warm and com­under-the-influence.” While it does fortable, corduroys are a solid choice. not involve any eggnog, this ailment The thicker the width of the vertical Dare to be Different: Something Be-still packs a punch. The usual instiga-line of the pant, also known as the sides a Black North Face Jacket tor is the unexpected holiday party, Ladies, I give you the muff. wale, the dressier the pant and the I could go on and on about the relatives you only see once a year, an A precursor to gloves, the muff orig-more velveteen it feels. If you want a alternatives to this and why people overzealous desire to wear anything inated in the 16th century and was a softer feel to your cords, then search should try something new, but I’ll sparkly and/or finals overdrive, not to hit with both men and women. Usually for pinwale or pincord corduroys. give you the Sparknotes version. Style mention the pressure to buy gifts for made out of fur (although of course is personal. It reflects individuality. everyone. today please feel free to go faux), the The North Face Jacket is just unin-
It muff is made in the form of a cylin-spiring. Where’s the personality? I results der, lined with warm fabric on the have to admit the black North Face in some inside, with just enough space for you Jacket is comfortable, but it’s not the seri-to delicately fold your hands and walk only warm article of clothing you can ously gracefully into a coming snowstorm. wear during winter. Discover your chal-With the advent of gloves the muff’s inner Lewis & Clark this winter and lenging popularity declined, but resurged in be more adventurous. fashion the ‘40s and ‘50s (I’ll never forget Zsa mo-Zsa Gabor’s as she skated along in the The Suggestion: The Coat ments. musical film “Gigi”). My coat of choice is the pea coat The re-Instead of being relegated to pockets (or peacoat, for some reason retail­sults of like gloves, the best part of the muff ers can’t decide how to spell it).  Pea “styl-is that when you are not using it to coats will keep you warm, protect you ing-warm your hands, you simply let it from the wind and are easy to layer under-slide oh so gently down one of your Ditch the Hoodie over other attire. Generally top-end the-forearms, showing it off to its best We all want to show off our won-pea coats are made with an 80 per­influ-advantage. As you wave to your fam-derful Notre Dame attire, but you cent wool/ 20 percent polyester blend. ence” ily at the airport, your barista as he don’t need to wear a hoodie all the However, a 60/40 pea coat will do just include prepares your Christmas cappuccino time. Hoodies are really hard to do fine. Caution: ensure that the shoul­but or goodbye to a pesky college require-anything with. It’s hard to layer with ders fit off the rack. Your tailor can are not ment never to be taken again, every-a hoodie because it’s difficult to put a work his magic, but he can’t do much lim-one will comment on the grace and thicker layer on the outside of this al-if the shoulders don’t fit right. ited to: ease of your salute. With your trusty ready thick material. They are warm, Take some time to think about wear-muff on your arm, come what may, but I think we can do better. these suggestions over break.  You ing you will be elegant. And if that’s not never know, you might even impress your in the spirit of Christmas, then I’m not The Suggestion: The Sweater your family with your new sense of 
Sophomore Elizabeth Surat moth-Fashion’s Mrs. Claus. Happy Holidays! Look for crew neck and v-neck style. models the Muff er’s sweaters. Sweaters generally are 
rein-Contact Felicia Caponigri at made of merino wool, cashmere, silk, Contact Sean Fitzgerald at deer and candy cane sweaters from fcapognig@nd.edu. cotton or a blend of materials. A lot sfitzge3@nd.edu. 1982, dousing yourself in glitter to The views expressed in this column of debate surrounds cashmere.  The The views expressed in this column match the gold party dress you bought are those of the author and not neces-general consensus is that it is loved are those of the author and not neces­after a close call with your Chemistry sarily those of The Observer. by a few, but too expensive for most.  sarily those of The Observer. 






LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, December 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Selects 
Christmas Cookies 
Gift Guides 

magazines or online stores for help. 
watching it. Check it out on YouTube. 
“Eloise at Christmastime” 
ise ultimately saves the day. 
Plaid Wrapping Paper 
holiday season staple. 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
It’s time we all shed that picture we have of the severe-looking nun bran­dishing a ruler at a student in a class­room. Sisters, nuns and women reli­gious have had an amazing impact on the development of our country, socially, medically, artistically and politically, even though we may not realize it. Luckily, “Women & Spirit: Catholic Sisters in America,” a trav­eling exhibit on the lives of Catholic sisters, has arrived in South Bend. 
The exhibit explores the 300-year history of Catholic sisters in Ameri­ca, from the time the Ursulines ar­rived in New Orleans in 1727 to today. “Women & Spirit” examines all as­pects of the lives of women religious, from their habits to their careers. 
As you enter the exhibit, a video greets you, providing an overview of what will appear in the exhibit. Sis­ters from communities from all over the United States help to narrate the visual history, bringing you through the years from the founding of our country to the civil war to modern times. 
In the rest of the exhibit are almost 200 artifacts from 70 sister commu­nities to complement the descriptions and excerpts from letters. One espe­cially striking object is a gorgeous harp from the Sisters of Charity. In 1857, the sisters moved their commu­nity from Nazareth, Ky. to Leaven­worth, Ks., traveling up the Missouri River with two pianos and this harp. 
There is also a medical bag from the Civil War used by a sister who provided nursing services to both the North and the South during the con­flict. In addition to medical instru­ments, she kept a tobacco plug in her kit at all times for the men she tend­ed, knowing they would never turn it down. Her letters also survive, and she gives a look into the difficulties of her job, working among mortally-wounded and disease-ridden men. 
Sisters also traveled to the West, moving to mining communities to educate young girls who otherwise would have no chance. But these women were not the frail, white-haired sisters you often imagine to­day. With very little prior experience, these women forged a life in the wild country, providing for themselves by learning to chop wood and shoot game. 
The exhibit culminates in the ac­tivities of sisters in modern times, from the Civil Rights Era to Vatican II to today. There is an especially mov­ing and interesting video about sis­ters during the ‘60s. As they walked with Martin Luther King, Jr., they too fought hard for their own rights, but within the church. 
“Women & Spirit” is an excellent exhibit, artfully blending together different elements and media to en­lighten and educate its audience. And it does indeed educate, but not in a dry way. For example, did you know the hospital that eventually became the Mayo Clinic was started by a sis­ter? In fact, in 2005, one in six hospi­tal patients was treated in a Catholic facility. And the idea to begin treat­ing alcoholism as a medical condi­tion? Successfully advocated and ad­vanced by a sister. 
Although Catholic sisters have braved extreme conditions in the United States, running schools, hos­pitals and orphanages, their efforts are largely unrecognized. The ex­hibit is a moving and inspirational testament to their faith. It is a unique perspective on American history, and one that should not be overlooked. 
Around the Bend 
What: Women & Spirit: Catholic Sisters in America Where: South Bend Center for History When: Free through Dec. 31 How Much: Free for students 
Learn More: 
centerforhistory.org 
Contact Mary Claire o’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Ocean Race shows the progression of sailing 
Children grow up imagining the great successes they will have in their sporting careers. They knock down game-winning three point­ers over invisible defenders as the buzzer sounds in their heads, hit series-clinching home runs off their dads’ pitches in the bot­tom of the ninth inning with two strikes and two outs and evade nonexistent tacklers en route to fantastic touchdowns in their back­yards. 
But why do they stop there? Why not, say, conquer the world? 
Appar­ently, there is a select group of children who are not satisfied with the trivialities of traditional sports and instead take their athletic ambitions somewhere else: they grow up and compete in the Volvo Ocean Race, a nine-month ordeal that involves perusing the world’s oceans. 
According to volvooceanrace. com, the race “is an exceptional test of sailing prowess and human endeavour which has been built on the spirit of great seafarers 
— fearless men who sailed the world’s oceans aboard square rigged clipper ships more than a century ago.” 
While the race’s model may be hundreds of years old, its first official installment is much more recent. In 1973 the Whitbread round the World Race came into existence. In the race’s inaugu­ral staging, three sailors were lost at sea in the perilous ocean waters. Despite the competition’s ominous beginnings, the contest maintained its existence every fourth year. The race adopted its current name in 2001 and has been staged every third year since 2005. 
The 2011-2012 installment of the Volvo Ocean Race began Oct. 29 in Alicante, Spain. The first leg of the race took the competitors to Cape Town, Africa, from where they will continue on to Abu Dabhi, UAE, then to Sanya, China, etc. The 39,000 nautical miles-long race makes stops in 10 ports around the world and concludes in Galway, Ireland in July. 
To step back and imagine the scenes that will confront the racers, or even to step back and look at a map of their course, is undeniably impressive. To recall the competitors’ forerunners is equally impressive, as mere men became masters of the world by abandoning the comfort of dry land and taking to the unknown seas. However, the contest’s ties to the past fail to extend beyond a basic desire to emulate the explor­atory spirit of early navigators. 

As much as retired players or aged broadcasters remark with a hint of superiority about the evo­lution of sports equipment from when they played to the quality of equipment used by today’s athletes, imagine what Magellan might say about today’s sailors. While Arnold Palmer can cite the differences in the size of the driver’s head or the angle of the wedge in a golf bag and Rod Laver could use a modern titanium racket to make splinters out of his old swatter, early navigators could make the strongest case of all. Today’s sailors have traded in the astrolabe for GPS, timber vessels for advanced sailboats and a mot­ley crew for a band of formally-educated sailors. Obviously, the Volvo Ocean Race of 2011-2012 will be a far cry from the danger and uncertainty of historic explo­ration or trading missions. 

Of course, even with all of today’s resources, a circumnavi­gation of the globe is no small feat. Those that partake in the Volvo Ocean Race surrender themselves to the intimidating strength of the ocean, and those that win the con­test, or even simply complete in it, can fairly claim to be masters of their craft. 
Even while modern sailors find the task of circumnavigation much more easy and comfortable than did sailors in centuries past, the attempts of today’s competi­tors are more impressive in one respect: the lack of necessity. In the age of technology, one could board a plane, pick up a phone, log into the internet or turn on the TV to learn something about distant locations in the world, but these sailors choose to take the adventurous route. 
In many ways, the Volvo Ocean Race represents the worst of sport: it is pointless, foolish, un­necessarily dangerous, expensive and impractical. However, the Volvo Ocean Race also represents the best of sport: men and women contributing to a team, seeking a lofty goal, surpassing limits and shirking off the restrictions of fear and convention. 
To the children out there who guide their makeshift boats out of the backyard and into the open sea, fair winds. 
Contact Joe Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

GOLF 
Changes proposed to Q-school 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Big dreams and a little luck can go a long way in golf, though this much should be clear about the 160 players who finished Q-school, and the 27 players who walked away with a full-time job on the PGA Tour: 
They all believed they were good enough to compete at the highest level. 
That part shouldn’t change, even as the tour moves clos­er to revamping Q-school as we’ve come to know it for nearly 50 years. 
If everything goes accord­ing to schedule, next Decem­ber will be the last time that Q-school won’t earn anyone a ticket straight to the PGA Tour. 
The final pieces are starting to come together in a plan that would merge the top 75 play­ers from the Nationwide Tour with the 75 players from the PGA Tour who failed to qual­ify for the FedEx Cup playoffs. They would play a three-tour­nament series, and the top 50 would earn PGA Tour cards. The rest could go back to Q-school to try to earn status on the Nationwide Tour. 
It’s a revolutionary plan, and not very popular among tradi­tionalists. 
While it strengthens the Na­tionwide Tour, and tries to en­sure that only the best players reach the big leagues, the PGA Tour is eliminating the dream­ers who have provided so much charm to the most gru­eling week in golf at Q-school. 
This week alone, the 27 win­ners at Q-school included a guy who played his last five holes in 5-under par to earn his PGA Tour card, and a 38-year-old who, only a few years ago, was working on a farm in North Carolina to pay the bills. There’s always someone who endured a family tragedy or a health scare, who was driving a delivery truck or working in a pizza restaurant to pay for a chance to play golf for a living. Only the names change. Those stories are as cool now as they were when Q-school began in 1965. 
And that’s what makes Steve Stricker, who is on the PGA Tour policy board, pause when considering the change. 
“I would like to see them keep a few more spots — maybe 10 spots or something like that,” Stricker said. “I still think it would be nice if somebody had the opportunity to get a quick turn on tour. I believe, though, it’s going to be better for a better player. It’s going to bring out talent over a longer period of time. If I was a good player, I would love to have the whole year to prove my­self for 50 spots.” 

While the details are still being discussed, the plan is starting to take shape. 
Tour officials believe they have a solution for the amateurs (most­ly college players) who no longer have a chance to earn their card at Q-school, like Rickie Fowler last year and Dustin Johnson in 2007. And it would keep these ris­ing stars from having to skip the 
U.S. Amateur or Walker Cup. 
One idea is to apply whatever money they earn as amateurs to the money list, even though they still don’t get paid. Call it fake money. 
UCLA sophomore Patrick Cantlay, for example, would have earned $343,088 in four PGA Tour events he played this sum­mer. That money would have put him around No. 155 on the money list, meaning he would qualify for the three-tournament series that awards 50 tour cards. That would allow amateurs to accept exemp­tions at any time of the year, such as Bay Hill, which offers a spot to the U.S. Amateur champion. 
If not, the tour fears college players would turn pro after the NCAA championship in late spring. 
As for the three-tournament se­ries, the last thing the tour wants is another points system like the FedEx Cup. The idea getting most of the attention is to base it off Na­tionwide Tour earnings. 
The top 25 from the Nation­wide Tour money list — play­ers who previously would have automatically earned PGA Tour cards — would be seeded No. 1 through No. 25. The next seed would be shared by No. 26 on the Nationwide money list and No. 126 on the PGA Tour money list. The PGA Tour player would be assigned the same money as his counterpart from the Nationwide Tour. 
Some of the early calculations have shown that top 25 would be virtually assured of finishing among the top 50 to earn their cards; and that anyone winning one of those three tournaments also would be a lock to earn a card. 
Jim Furyk goes on the policy board next year. What concerns him is that the players who earn cards out of Q-school in 2012 will only have eight months to try to get into the FedEx Cup playoffs and keep their cards; they no lon­ger would have the Fall Series to help them. 
“I’m torn with the proposals out there,” Furyk said. “Because there are going to be situations — injuries, different things — that happen that don’t give you an op­portunity to get back on tour. I’m worried about blending the Na­tionwide and the regular Tour to­gether. The first year we do this, the rookies and first-timers get an extremely short season. 
“I know the tour has an idea what they want to accomplish, but I don’t think they have all the details yet,” he said. “And I’m a details guy.” 
The overhaul seems to be inevi­table, though. Next year is likely to be the last that players with big dreams can have a great week or a great finish, and the reward will be a job on the PGA Tour. 
What won’t change is that the best players will find a way. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

#QUINNING 1772 - Joseph Franz Maximilian 1810 - Theodor Schwann, German 1839 - Redvers H Buller, English 1857 - Nicola van Westerhout, 
PERSONAL 

Lobkowitz, composer co-originator of cell theory general/large landowner: Natal composer Born on this Day: 
1784 - Allan Cunningham, British 1810 - Josef Hyrtl, Austrian 1840 - Hermann Goetz, composer 1860 - Joseph Cook, 6th Prime UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 1754 - Jack Jouett, American poet (d. 1842) anatomist (d. 1894) Minister of Australia (d. 1947) do it alone. Notre Dame has many patriot 1842 - Otto Ammon, German 
resources in place to assist you. 1801 - Johann Nepomuk Nestroy, 1823 -Leopold Kronecker, German anthropologist/sociologist 1862 - Paul Adam, French writer If you or someone you love needs 1761 - Madame [Marie Grosholtz] Austrian actor mathematician (schedelmetingen) (La Bataille d’Uhde) confidential support or assistance, Tussaud, created wax museum please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 1803 - Maria Josepha of Saxony, 1830 - Luigi Cremona, Italian 1847 - James Deacon White, 1863 - John Ebenezer West, or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 1764 - Claude Victor-Perrin, duc queen consort of Spain (d. 1829) mathematician Canton NY, ball player composer information, visit ND’s website at: de Belluno, French marshal (d. 
1841) 1808 - Hugh McCulloch, US Secy 1835 - Dom Joseph Pothier, 1847 - Solomon Schechter, US 1863 - Pietro Mascagni, Italian http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu of Treasury French monk/musicologist Talmudic scholar/Jewish leader composer/fascist 
NFL 

Packers sell stock to finance renovations 


Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis.  — The Green Bay Packers have an MVP can­didate in quarterback Aaron Rodgers, a Super Bowl champi­onship won just 10 months ago and an undefeated team mak­ing a run toward another title for Titletown. 
The Packers now have hun­dreds of new owners, too. 
The team kicked off a rare stock sale Tuesday to help pay for another round of renova­tions at Lambeau Field, giv­ing pretty much anyone a shot at becoming an NFL owner for $250 per share, plus a $25 han­dling charge. 
Sarah Johnson, 34, of Portage said it took her nearly 20 min­utes to complete what should have been a 30-second process, but it was worth to wait. 
“I could have just as well thrown my money out the win­dow for what I get for it, other than a feel-good,” she said. “I just feel like the Packer orga­nization has sort of a nostal­gia and an excitement around it other franchises don’t have. Just to say you’re part of that on some level is neat to me.” 
The team received 1,600 or­ders in the first 11 minutes of the sale, said Packers President Mark Murphy, who had to reas­sure fans the Packers website was still working. Team spokes­man Aaron Popkey said he did not have any sales data as of early Tuesday afternoon. 
“It’s just a question of vol­ume,” Murphy said. “Fans are excited about this opportunity. We just encourage fans to be patient.” 
It is the fifth stock sale in the Packers’ 92-year history and the first in 14 years. 
The NFL’s only publicly-owned team offered 250,000 shares through Feb. 29, subject to an extension. The stock isn’t an investment in the tradition­al sense: Its value doesn’t in­crease, there are no dividends, it has virtually no re-sale value and it won’t give buyers a leg up on the 93,000 people on the waiting list for season tickets. 
The fine print on the Pack­ers’ stock sale website says NFL rules prohibit sharehold­ers from betting on any NFL game; violators could face up to $5,000 in fines. Popkey didn’t immediately return email and voicemail messages seeking comment, but NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said in an email he had never heard of it being a concern. 
What buyers do get is a piece of paper declaring them a team owner, voting rights and the right to attend the annual stock­holder meeting at Lambeau each summer before training camp. Oh, and they get access to a special line of shareholder apparel, too. 
The economy is still lurching along, but that probably won’t make much difference to the cheesehead nation, among the league’s most dedicated fans. The Packers’ timing is perfect, too. Christmas is only a few weeks off and the Packers are hot, hot, hot: The defending champions clinched the NFC North title this past weekend and look like a favorite again with a 12-0 record with four games left to play in the regular season. 
Plus, the cause is nothing less than spiffing up the team’s hal­lowed frozen tundra. 
The team hopes to generate at least $22 million through the stock sale to help defray the cost of a $143 million renova­tion project at Lambeau. Plans call for adding 6,700 additional seats, new high-definition video screens and a new entrance by 2013. 
Before the sale, there were 112,205 Packers stockholders who own a total of 4.75 mil­lion shares. The latest sale did have restrictions: Stock can only be purchased by individu­als, not businesses, and there’s a 200-share cap, a figure that includes any stock purchased during the last sale in 1997. 
The offering is limited to peo­ple with addresses in the U.S., Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Soldiers and U.S. residents who are currently overseas have to use their U.S. addresses. 
The Packers have been a pub­licly owned nonprofit corpora­tion since 1923. The team held its first stock sale that year, fol­lowed by sales in 1935 and 1950 that helped keep the franchise afloat even as other small-mar­kets teams were sinking. 
Back in 1997, the last time the Packers offered stock, then-team president Bob Harlan was looking for ways to cover stadi­um renovation costs. He recalled that other owners balked, wor­ried that the Packers would use the money to compensate their coaches or improve their roster in a way other teams couldn’t. It was only after Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and Pittsburgh Steelers owner Dan Rooney ar­gued in favor of the idea that the proposal passed. Rooney said the Packers deserved unani­mous support because they were a vital part of NFL history. 

NHL 

Barnaby faces possible deportation following arrest 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y.  — Fired ESPN hockey analyst Matthew Barn­aby’s drunken driving charge jeopardizes an agreement the former NHL player reached noted it would be up to an im­migration judge to revoke a per­son’s legal status or have them removed from the country. 

Immigration rules outline 
crimes of domestic violence and aggra­vated felonies 

to avoid poten-“If you allegedly commit as potential tial deporta-another crime, you grounds for tion following put your [adjournment deportation. an arrest ear-in contemplation of Barnaby lier this year. dismissal] in jeopardy.” broke into the 
Erie County NHL with the District At-Buffalo Sa-
Frank Sedita 
torney Frank bres during 
Erie County District Attorney 
Sedita called the 1992-93 
Barnaby’s ar­rest this week “a serious matter,” and warned it could have consequences on the Ca­nadian’s status in the United States because of his previous run-in with the law. 
“If you allegedly commit an­other crime, you put your ACD in jeopardy,” Sedita said Tues­day. Sedita was referring to what’s called an adjournment in contemplation of dismissal deal Barnaby reached in July to have five misdemeanor charg­es dropped in connection to a domestic dispute with his es­tranged wife. 
Sedita said it’s too early to determine whether he’ll seek to reinstate the charges in part because Barnaby has yet to appear in court on his DWI charge. 
“It’s just way too early in the process for me to make any de­cisions yet,” Sedita said. “But it is a serious matter because depending on what decisions I make, that could have conse­quences to what he faces on the other side of downtown with federal authorities.” 
Barnaby’s attorney, Frank LoTempio, has not returned several messages left with him. Attempts to reach Barnaby were unsuccessful because his cell phone mailbox was full on Tuesday. 
The 38-year-old is from Ot­tawa and was fired by ESPN on Monday, a day after being charged with drunken driv­ing near his suburban Buffalo home. Erie County sheriffs ar­rested Barnaby after find­ing him behind the wheel of a Porsche Cayenne that had dam­age to its front end and causing sparks because it was missing its front tire. 
Barnaby had his license re­voked after failing field sobriety tests and refusing a breath test. 
He’s scheduled to appear in court on Jan. 17, but it’s likely that date will be moved up. 
Last summer, Barnaby avoid­ed a potential deportation hear­ing by reaching a deal in which he was ordered to complete 500 hours of community service. 
Barnaby was accused of dam­aging a car and causing about $300 damage by kicking a ga­rage door in an attempt to enter a home where his wife and two children live in suburban Buf­falo. He was barred from taking “offensive” action against his wife and to avoid contact with his wife’s boyfriend. He was also ordered to attend anger management counseling. 
The misdemeanor charges of criminal mischief and ag­gravated harassment would be dropped after a year if he ful­filled the judge’s order. 
U.S. Immigration and Cus­toms Enforcement spokesman Ross Feinstein said immigra­tion officials have not had any contact with Barnaby, and season. He 

played for sev­
en teams over 13-plus NHL seasons, earning a reputation as a pesky agita­tor during a career in which he finished with 113 goals and 300 points. He also had 2,562 pen­alty minutes in 834 games. 
He retired in 2007 because of a concussion sustained during a fight. He joined ESPN as a studio analyst in 2008. 

NFL 

Tebow spurs discussion among former NFL QB’s 
Associated Press got Tom Brady that set a stan-The Broncos have decided dard of excellence in football not to try to fix Tebow’s throw-
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — No-that we haven’t seen,” said The-ing troubles now but try to ac-body knows what will come of ismann, now an NFL Network centuate what he already does the Tim Tebow experiment, not analyst. “What makes 2011 so well, which is running a ball-even those scrambling ram-unique is we have seen quar-control, low-risk, no-frills of­blers who came before him. terback play in this league at fense heavy on the option while 
Yet it seems like everybody such a high extreme and in sprinkling in some downfield wants to talk about it. Tim’s case, the bottom rung passes. 
Retired QBs who made a liv-when it comes to completions.” “He’s in a sweet spot right ing with their legs, and who And yet the Broncos are also now,” said Young, “but I don’t also turned the NFL on its ear in the playoff hunt in this pass-know if it’s developing him to in their day, have strong opin-happy league because of an go do it long-term in the NFL.” ions about what’s happening in old-fashioned formula based Tebow is coming off his best Denver, where Tebow has led on stout defense and a strong passing performance as a pro the once lowly Broncos to six ground game. — 10 of 15 for 202 yards and wins in his seven starts. “That defense is as good two TDs — but Young would 
Randall Cunningham loves it. as any in football right now,” like to see him sling it 20-25 Steve Young hates it. Theismann said. “The offense times every Sunday. Bobby Douglass admires it. doesn’t turn the ball over. “I learned the hard way While they debate whether There’s been one interception in what the job in the NFL was,” 
Tebow can morph into a pro-seven games. I say this tongue-said Young, who came into totypical pocket passer, they’re in-cheek: The way Tim throws the league as a scrambler and all pulling hard for the Bron-the ball sometimes, nobody has left as a pocket passer with a cos’ quirky quarterback who a shot at getting it, his guy, the championship and a ticket to defies his messy mechanics and defenders. It’s either bounce it the Hall of Fame. “I didn’t know flawed footwork with grit and in the ground or throw it in the what that job was and it wasn’t last-minute magic. third row.” natural to me and I like to just “We really haven’t learned get used to, but I’m not worried 
“I think what we all ought Tebow is completing just 48 run around and make plays. anything,” Young said. “We about him. The guy’s built for to do is enjoy the circus while percent of his passes. “But it’s not championship knew he was good at that.” it.” it’s in town,” suggests another “And what’s his winning per-football. It can be winning foot-Young said he fears the Bron-Theismann agrees that “your former NFL quarterback, Joe centage?” retorts Cunningham. ball, but it’s not championship cos will head into the offsea-vulnerability to big shots in the Theismann. It’s 85.7 percent, second only football,” Young said. “And so I son still clueless as to whether pocket are greater than outside 
Tebow has brought the option to Rodgers, whose Packers are had to learn the job, and the job Tebow can really throw the ball the pocket. But when you start back to the NFL and while he perfect at 12-0. is a Ph.D. in studying defenses and thus they’ll decide to draft to tuck and run, somebody’s usually struggles for much of Still, Broncos boss John El-and the ability — and some of another quarterback, “and going to come in and just say, the day to move his team down-way won’t publicly commit to it’s natural — to deliver the then I’m going to say, ‘Well, ‘Hey, this is my shot at Tim field, he keeps coming up big in Tebow for 2012 and beyond. football.” why didn’t we spend that time Tebow and I’m going to take it.’ crunch time, guiding the Bron-Coach John Fox, who told NFL. There’s the rub. Does Tebow last year seeing if he could re-“And my bet is he’ll get up. cos to second-half comeback com last month that Tebow really need to be a great pass-ally do this job?’” But after how many can you get wins against the Dolphins, Jets, would be “screwed” if they er? The answer to that question: up?” Raiders, Chargers and Vikings were running a conventional “My first year, I was no more Because he’s winning. So says Young said he thinks Tebow’s since taking over as the starter offense, is living in the moment, accurate than he was,” said Douglass, the Bears’ scram-biggest problem in the passing two months ago. not focused on the future. Cunningham, who was a 42 bling quarterback from 1969-game is that his head’s swim-
On Sunday, he won a shootout “The guys wins.How can you percent passer as a rookie but 75 who was a career 43 percent ming. in Minnesota, propelling the not be a fan of that?” Fox said. finished his career at 56.6 per-passer. “So, I just got a feeling that Broncos (7-5) into a first-place “He does it with his feet, with cent and was one of the most “You have to make a decision: yeah, maybe he’s not a 70 per-tie with Oakland atop the AFC his arm, just with his competi-exciting players of his day. Can we put in some of the stuff cent passer but he’s not 45. And West. tive greatness, really. That’s Young worries that the op-that he’s real comfortable with so I just feel like as he plays 
“You’ve got Aaron Rodgers, what you’re looking for in a tion offense is stunting Tebow’s plus create all these problems more and gets more opportu­
you’ve got Drew Brees, you’ve quarterback.” growth. for the defense?” said Douglass. nity, he’ll throw the ball bet­“And then, are we better off ter as he relaxes more and gets sacrificing some of the things more reps,” Young said. “But that he could be learning if we that’s what I’m worried about didn’t do that? Obviously, they with him. I feel like it’s a dis-have made that decision.” service if he’s not getting the 
Although they’ve slowed his reps throwing the ball.” growth as a passer, they haven’t Douglass disagrees. stunted it, Douglass suggested. “You have to use his talents,” 
Cunningham, who spent 16 he said. “I believe you have to seasons in the NFL, said the re-use his physicality, his ability sults speak for themselves. as a runner and the physicality 
“The bottom line is the man is the size which means he can wins games. I’m probably his take some punishment, maybe biggest fan,” Cunningham said. run through a guy once in a “When I look at him, I see a while.” large Michael Vick. People tell Like they do with everything Tim what he can’t do; he defies else, opponents will eventually the odds. He doesn’t do it in a decipher the option, critics say. way that everybody else does it. “They kind of have. It’s not He doesn’t do it like Tom Brady flourishing. Let’s be honest,” or my man Drew Brees. But let Young said. “But you let Tim me tell you something: At the hang around, he’ll beat you. He end of the game, it’s always ex-will beat you. There’s nobody I citing and he comes out ahead.” can say that more emphatically 
Eventually, all scramblers about than Tim Tebow. If he’s are forced to rely more on their around at the end, you’re dead.” arm. Age and injuries catch up. While Tebow is diplomatic, 
Tebow ran the ball 22 times saying he’ll do whatever is two weeks ago, more than any asked of him, Young thinks NFL quarterback since 1950, in his heart of hearts, Tebow prompting Vikings coach Leslie wants to be groomed into a Frazier to crack that he’d like passer and not run the same to get his star tailback Adrian offense he did in college. Peterson that many touches. “I believe he would rather 
The Broncos dispute the no-take the chance of failing, even tion they’re putting Tebow in miserably, and dropping back harm’s way with so many de-and really throwing the ball signed quarterback runs, in-and playing NFL quarterback,” sisting he’s susceptible to big-Young said. “And I think the ger hits in the pocket. Broncos don’t believe he can do 
Young’s not worried about it. John Fox, what did he say, Tebow’s health. he’d be screwed if he does that? 
“No, he’s a bull,” Young said. That’s a pretty strong state­“Physically, he’s as ready to go ment, right? take that beating as anyone in “The Broncos are saying he the league, running backs, any-can’t play quarterback tra­body. Now, can you transition ditionally so we’ll just fiddle from running somebody over to faddle around here for a little then dropping back and read-while but long term we’re not ing the zone blitz and drop off committed to this. It’s almost the ball to the hot read? I mean, like they’ve made it a little bit that’s the transition he has to of a sideshow.” 


NCAA CROSS COUNTRY 
Details of runner ’s disappearance emerge 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — A campus police report provides new details about why an All-American cross-country run­ner from the University of Alas­ka Anchorage spent three days alone in the freezing woods and had to have his feet ampu­tated, saying he went for a run because he was feeling despon­dent and passed out under a tree. 
Marko Cheseto, 28, of Kenya, disappeared from the universi­ty Nov. 6. He was suffering from hypothermia and severe frost­bite to his feet when he stag­gered into the lobby of an An­chorage hotel three days later. 
He was wearing a T-shirt, jeans, two jackets and running shoes, but no hat or gloves. His shoes were frozen to his feet. 
A university police report 

When he awoke, apparently in the early morning hours three days later, it was snow­ing. He didn’t have much snow on his upper body, but his legs were buried in snow. He real­ized his feet were frozen. 
The report says Cheseto lay there for about another half-hour and realized he was get­ting even colder. He told police he pulled himself up by holding onto a tree. He started to do ex­ercises to get some feeling back into his legs so he could walk out of the woods. 
He walked toward the sound of cars and eventually walked into a hotel lobby, where em­ployees rushed him over to a fireplace, put a blanket on him and called 911. 
“He stated that he asked them what day it was and was 
quite shocked 
to be told it 
was Wednes­
day morning, 
as he figured 
obtained un­der an open records re­quest by The A ss o ci a te d Press says Cheseto told officers he woke up the  “He told me that he felt like no one had been able to understand how difficult things had been for him, and that everyone basically just said, ‘Hang in there.”  it was only Monday,” the police report said. Cheseto is being fitted with prosthet­ics and likely will be hospi­ 
morning of Nov. 6 and sought out his  Campus police report University of Alaska  talized anoth­er two weeks, Friess said.  


roommate. He wanted to tell him he was “having to struggle to get through life,” but his roommate had to work, the campus police officer’s report said. 
Cheseto’s despondency grew. 
“He told me that he felt like no one had been able to under­stand how difficult things had been for him, and that every­one basically just said, ‘Hang in there,’” the officer’s report says. 
The report had sections re­dacted and didn’t elaborate on Cheseto’s problems. 
Cheseto was a top runner on his team but took last season off following the suicide of his close friend, teammate and fel­low Kenyan William Ritekwi­ang. 
Ritekwiang was found dead in February in his apartment near campus. 
Michael Friess, the univer­sity’s head cross country and track and field coach, said Che­seto received counseling after Ritekwiang’s death and was still being treated when he took his run in the woods. 
The report said Cheseto be­gan his run about 7 p.m. on a popular trail that’s covered in snow this time of year. He took a left turn off the trail and ran into the woods, where he told police he passed out under a tree. 

“It is hard 
to under­
stand depres­
sion,” Friess 
said. “Yes, he was in the wrong place, he fell down, you could describe it. But in my opinion the strongest as­pect is that he got up. 
“He wasn’t found. He re­turned to us,” Friess said. 
Details from the university police report first appeared in The Northern Lights campus newspaper. 
Cheseto, a long-distance run­ner working on a nursing de­gree, disappeared a day after the university cross-country team’s triumphant return to Anchorage from the NCAA Di­vision II West Region Champi­onships in Spokane, Wash. The Seawolves won every champi­onship up for grabs at the meet. 
Cheseto had won the West Region Championships in cross-country in 2009 and 2010. He had used his final sea­son of cross-country eligibility but was expected to compete in spring track. 
Patrick Cohn, a sports psy­chology expert and founder of Peak Performance Sports in Or­lando, Fla., said it can be a diffi­cult process for student athletes as they move toward careers in other fields. 
“When they stop, they lose that identity: ‘Who am I? Not the student athlete,’” Cohn said. 

NFL 
Chargers roll to 38-14 win over Jags 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla.  — Of all the negative numbers over the last six weeks, the only one that mattered to Philip Rivers was the losses. 
Sure, the interceptions and fumbles were bothersome. But they didn’t compare to the six-game losing streak, the franchise’s longest in more than eight years. 
So Rivers made little of his big night against Jackson­ville. 
Rivers threw for 294 yards and three touchdowns, burn­ing Jacksonville’s depleted secondary early and often, and the Chargers beat the Jaguars 38-14 Monday night to snap a six-game losing streak. 
“There was no magical play or magical scheme,” Rivers said. “We just played better. This doesn’t mean we’ll play better next week. Each game stands alone. We played good for three and a half hours, won and now let’s go play somebody else next week.” 
The Chargers (5-7) had been waiting for the three-time Pro Bowl selection to return to form. Some ques­tioned whether it would hap­pen this season. But Rivers never lost faith even though he leads the NFL in intercep­tions (17) and turnovers (21) and was a key part of the team’s disappointing slide. 
“It’s been a rough six weeks,” Rivers said. “I haven’t put a complete game togeth­er, but I don’t care about the numbers. I just want to win.” 
Rivers was nearly perfect against Jacksonville (3-9), adding to the team’s tumul­tuous week. 
He completed 22 of 28 passes — hooking up with Vincent Brown, Vincent Jackson and Malcom Floyd for long scores — before sitting out the final few minutes. Rivers finished with a 146.1 QB rating, by far his highest of the season. 
The Chargers scored on five of their first six drives, then sent most of the home crowd scram­bling for the exits with Ryan Mathews’ 31-yard TD run in the fourth. Mathews ran 13 times for 112 yards. 
“That’s the type of chemis­try coming into this season we knew we had,” tight end Anto­nio Gates said. “We stayed on course despite what we’ve been through these last six weeks. That we were able to get a win tonight speaks volumes for this team.” 
It was a much-needed victory for a team that trails Denver and Oakland by two games in the AFC West with four to play. 
And it was another blow to the Jaguars, who endured the most sweeping changes in the 17-year history of the franchise last week. 
Team owner Wayne Weaver fired coach Jack Del Rio and an­nounced he was selling the club to Illinois businessman Shahid Khan. Interim coach Mel Tucker fired receivers coach Johnny Cox, reassigned quarterbacks coach Mike Sheppard and waived starting receiver Jason Hill. 
The moves seemed to invigo­rate a franchise that had seem­ingly gone stale in Del Rio’s ninth season. Fans showed up energized for a prime-time game that signaled the start of a new era. Some wore “Yes We Khan” T-shirts. Other donned fake mustaches to look like the owner-in-waiting. 
It made little difference on the field, mostly because Jackson­ville’s defensive injuries proved too much to overcome. 
The Jaguars played without their top three cornerbacks — Rashean Mathis, Derek Cox and Will Middleton — and lost safety Dwight Lowery (shoulder) and defensive end John Chick (knee) during the game. 
“No excuses here,” Tucker said. “We won’t allow ourselves to go down that road.” 
Rivers took advantage of the injuries, picking on a pair of cornerbacks who were signed off the street in recent weeks. 
Rivers threw two TD passes in the final 2:32 of the first half. 
The opening drive of the third quarter didn’t take long, either. On the fifth play, Rivers found Floyd deep down the right side­line for a 52-yard score. Floyd, activated Monday night after missing six games with a hip injury, finished with four recep­tions for 108 yards. 
“He’s just an outstanding player,” Chargers coach Norv Turner said of Rivers. “Like any quarterback, it starts with pro­tection, with the guys up front. He’s missed Malcom. We’ve missed Malcom. When Philip has all his guys, and he can op­erate like he did today, he’s as good as anybody.” 
The biggest cheer for the Jag­uars came late in the third quar­ter, when Weaver was shown on the stadium’s large video board. Weaver and his wife received a standing ovation. 
The $760 million sale must be approved by the NFL later this month. Khan chose not to attend the game, which turned out to be a good move. 
Maurice Jones-Drew was the lone offensive star for Jackson­ville — again. He finished with 97 yards rushing and 91 yards receiving. He now leads the NFL in rushing with 1,137 yards. 
“I don’t think anyone has been through anything like that,” Jones-Drew said, reflecting on the week. “This is a $9 billion business. Other than that, we played football. We’ve got to fig­ure out how to keep going for four quarters and not two.” 

NHL 

Nash nets clinching shootout goal in 3-2 Jackets win 
Blues reverse recent struggles on man-advantage, use two power play goals to defeat Detroit 3-2 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL — Rick Nash’s shootout goal lifted the Colum­bus Blue Jackets to a 3-2 win over the Montreal Canadiens on Tuesday night. 
Curtis Sanford was perfect in the tiebreaker, turning aside David Desharnais, Max Pacio­retty and Brian Gionta. Gionta scored a goal with 1:21 left in regulation to send the game to overtime. 
Andrei Kostitsyn scored with 
1.5 seconds left in the first to draw Montreal even at 1. 
R.J. Umberger had a goal and an assist, and Vinny Pro­spal also scored for Columbus, which had lost three of four. 
Sanford made 18 saves in his 10th straight start for the Blue Jackets. The 32-year-old goalie signed with Columbus as a free agent in July after spending the last two seasons in the Ca­nadiens’ organization with AHL Hamilton. 
Carey Price stopped 26 shots for Montreal, which returned home after a 1-1-1 West Coast trip. 
Gionta, who missed half of the second period after he was cut on the face by Blue Jackets de­fenseman Marc Methot’s skate, tapped home a puck in the crease after Tomas Plekanec’s centering pass struck former Canadiens defenseman James Wisniewski in front. 

Gionta was injured earlier and was down the ice after Methot’s leg kicked up and struck him in the face after he checked him into the boards. Gionta had words with the Columbus bench as he went to the dressing room at 11:07. He missed the rest of the period before returning for the start of the third. 
Prospal quieted the sold-out crowd just over 2 minutes in when he beat Price for his sev­enth goal. 
Columbus held a 10-7 shots advantage in the first period, but Kostitsyn made the Cana­diens’ last one count. He drove in and snapped a shot past San­ford for his third goal in four games. 
Umberger gave Columbus a 2-1 lead off the ensuing faceoff. He took defenseman Nikita Ni­kitin’s lead pass and drove the left side to beat Price between the pads with a low wrist shot at 11:14. 
Price stuck out his left pad to deny Umberger on a breakaway to keep it a one-goal game with less than a minute left in the second after Montreal defense-man P.K. Subban turned over the puck and fell inside the Blue Jackets’ blue line. 
St. Louis 3, Detroit 2 

David Backes got the go-ahead score on the second straight power-play goal of the game for the St. Louis Blues, who ended a 2 for 39 slump with the man advantage in a victory over the Detroit Red Wings on Tuesday night. 

Alex Steen had a power play goal in the second period and Brian Elliott made 27 saves for the Blues, who are 9-2-3 since Ken Hitchcock replaced Davis Payne as coach. The Blues also beat the Red Wings in Hitch­cock’s first game on Nov. 15. 
St. Louis entered Tuesday as the NHL’s worst with the man advantage — having scored eight goals in 87 chances. 
Detroit’s Jonathan Franzen scored for the third straight game and Danny Cleary made it a one-goal game with 1:20 to go. 
Backes’ team-leading 10th goal came on a one-timer from 
T.J. Oshie in the opening minute of the third period, capitalizing on a delay of game call on Nik­las Kronwall for clearing the puck into the stands. Berglund’s sixth of the year beat Howard to the short side on a rush for a 3-1 lead. 
Franzen poked the puck be­tween Elliott’s pads at 7:42 of the second for his team-leading 13th goal and the early lead, with Howard earning his first assist on the play. 




Unity 
continued from page 20 
championship part of the sea­son.” 
The second main goal of the trip is building team unity. 
“The team is going to be to­gether for a week and a half, el.” 

Benishek said the trip will give the team something to look for­ward to as finals approach. 
“Without a doubt, I think they are definitely excited about it. Now that we made it through the Thanksgiving period with those large invites, the focus has defi­nitely changed. Right now there’s a strong focus to finish school 
and their only focus is going to be eat, sleep and swim for a week straight, and they’re roomed up with their teammates as well,” Ben­ishek said. “When they’re on campus, they go back to their own dorm rooms 

“The team is going to be together for a week and a half, and their only focus is going to be eat, sleep and swim for a week straight, and they’re roomed up with their teammates as well.” 
Mark Benishek Belles coach 
up,” Benishek said. 
“They’re ex­cited about go­ing home and spending time with family, and then com­ing back and traveling to some warmer weather. They definitely love it, and it’s a great privilege and opportu­
and they’re apart, but this time of year they’re together all the time. 
“That time in between prac­tices, they hang out and hang around the pool or whatever it might be. They really get to know each other on a much deeper lev-
Peters 
continued from page 18 
win over Marquette the last time the teams played each oth­er on Jan. 5, 2011. 
Notre Dame is 12-4 in Big East Conference openers and won 10 of the last 12 since join­ing the conference in 1995. 

nity that the university gives us.” 
The Belles will train on the Sun Devils’ grounds in Tempe, Ariz. for one week beginning Dec. 2. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

 “We’re looking forward to our first conference game,” Mc­Graw said. “It comes at a tough time of the year. It’s a tough time to be playing with finals. Hopefully we can focus and win.” 
Tip-off against the Golden Eagles is scheduled for 7 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish pass on holiday meet, will have month off 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish will have a longer break from competition than initially expected, as they will no longer be sending any ath­letes to the Grand Valley State Holiday Open this weekend. 
Notre Dame was initially go­ing to travel to Allendale, Mich. 

for an early season tune-up for the team’s multi-eventers. 
The weekend off will kick off Notre Dame’s Christmas break a week early. Now, they will have over a month off between last weekend’s Blue and Gold Meet and their return to ac­tion Jan. 14 at the Bob Eubanks Open. 
Hope 
continued from page 20 
Henley said. “In order for us to be successful, we have to really shut down their inside game and attack the basket at the other end.” 
The Belles relied on a balanced scoring attack this season with four se­niors averaging more than 10 points per game. Senior guards Patsy Mahoney and Maggie Ronan lead Saint Mary’s with 15.4 points per game and 12.9 points per game, respectively. Senior forwards Kelley Murphy and Jessica Centa follow them in lead scorers. Ronan and Murphy lead the Belles in rebounding, averaging more than five rebounds per game. 
The Belles will try to re­main focused on the task at hand and come out strong against the Flying Dutch, despite the tough academic week. 
“This team deserves a lot of credit,” Henley said. “Fi­nals are only days away and they continue to balance the demands of our season in 
Train 
continued from page 20 
es, tests, papers or distrac­tions,” Welsh said. “It’s all about how hard can we work and train in that time peri­od.” 
Welsh said the team will use the training period to further improve their times and team chemistry. 
“As happy as we are with our results this past meet, we want to be faster,” Welsh addition to their academics. They are very focused on what needs to be done.” 
Tip-off against Hope is sched­
said.  “We want to do the work and preparation during this training period to achieve those faster times come February and March.” 
The team’s success at last weekend’s Iowa Invitational, including a first place finish by sophomore Frank Dyer in the 200-meter freestyle and second place finish in the 100-meter breaststroke by junior Christo­pher Johnson grants the Irish confidence, though they do not know who they are up against. 
“That was huge meet for us,” Welsh said. “Building off last 
uled for 7:30 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
weekend is vital to what we can accomplish this season. It takes a while for a young group to be a cohesive team, but because we performed well, our molding into a unified team was acceler­ated.” 
The Irish hope to keep accel­erating, both in the pool and as a team, during winter break. According to Welsh, the train­ing opportunity the Jan. 6 Copa Coqui provides will be another step in that direction. 
Contact Jonathan warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD

KELLy LyNCH AND JOE MILLER 
JUMBLE

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, December 7 , 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Big East beginnings 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
No other team in the coun­try has played Notre Dame as many times as Marquette, and the Irish are on a 17-game win streak at home against the Golden Eagles. They will meet on Irish territory Wednesday at the Purcell Pavilion for both teams’ Big East Conference opener. 
“Starting the Big East [con­ference games] makes this game a lot more exciting than a non-conference game,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw. “And it’s nice to be playing it at home.” 
Overall, the No. 3 Irish are 30-6 overall against Marquette, 18-1 at home and currently have a four-game win streak in 2011. Notre Dame started the streak at the Junkanoo Jam in the Bahamas on Nov. 27, high­lighted by a last second basket from senior forward Natalie No­vosel against No. 6 Duke in the championship game. 
Two more wins against Penn on Friday and Creighton on Saturday brought the Irish to 
KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer 

7-1 for the fourth time in five seasons.  The Irish lost to No. 1 Irish graduate student forward Devereaux Peters corrals one of her six rebounds in Baylor on Nov. 20. Notre Dame’s 69-38 win over Penn on Dec. 2 at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Marquette head coach Toni Mitchell has a .632 record in her The Golden Eagles (5-4) have overs from the Bluejays. entire season.” 16 years with the Golden Eagles six new freshmen on their ros-“We need to work on re-The Irish are sixth in the na­and is 2-10 against the Irish. ter since the Irish saw them last bounds and defending,” Mc-tion and at the top of the Big 
“They’re an incredibly well-and will also play a new start-Graw said. “We were impressed East in steals. coached team,” McGraw said. ing point guard. They return with our rebounding in the last Graduate student forward “They’re a young team, bigger two of their starters. game. That’s one of our goals, Devereaux Peters scored 18 and have a different style this In Saturday’s game, the Irish rebounding better, and Creigh-points in Notre Dame’s 73-55 year. They’re always good, ev-shot .6 from the field against ton was a good start for us. ery year.” Creighton and took 25 turn-That’s been one of our goals the see PETERS/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look for second MIAA win 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will try to start a win streak in the MIAA when they play No. 15 Hope College tonight. The Belles won their first MIAA game 72-50 against Alma College at home Saturday. 
“Anytime you win in the league, it feels good,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “Our players have been very fo­cused on improving our de­fense and stopping the tran­sition game. I felt we did a very good job on that against Alma.” 
Saint Mary’s (3-5, 1-1) used a balanced scoring attack coupled with a strong defen­sive performance against the Scots. The Belles created 37 points off turnovers and held a plus-10 advantage in re­bounds. Henley said her team hopes it can carry its defen­sive momentum into tonight’s contest against the No. 15/24 Flying Dutch (6-1, 2-0), who are undefeated so far in con­ference play. 
“Hope College has a very strong basketball program. They continue to be one of the top teams in this league,” 
see HOPE/page 18 

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Team changes site of winter training to Ariz. 
By VICTORIA JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles are off to Arizona State for their annual winter training trip to focus on swim­ming without the stress of school. Saint Mary’s will work on team building and both in-water and non-water conditioning at the neutral site from Dec. 28 to Jan 5. 
Although the Belles have tra­ditionally done their winter training in Florida, Saint Mary’s coach Mark Benishek decided the team would travel to Arizona this year, partially because of personal contacts at the univer­sity and partially for a change of scenery. 
“I know they’ve been going down to Sarasota Beach the last four or five years, but the area’s changed a little bit. The pool availability is not quite the most convenient,” Benishek said. “So it’s just looking to try something new for the team and kind of go off on our own foot. 
“Last year it was pre-set up when I took the position, so I just want to start a new tradition and see what the area’s like.” 
Benishek said the team plans to compete in one scrimmage while it is in Arizona, possibly against Grand Canyon, a Division II program out of Phoenix. 

“We had a couple [of schools] on slate, but we just weren’t sure about availability, and we haven’t quite locked this one in yet, but it’s a good possibility,” Benishek said. “We try to have one form of competition when we have these training trips and swim against somebody that you never get to swim against, and this would definitely be the first time swimming against another university like this.” 
While a scrimmage is a wel­comed break from the month and a half layoff between compe­titions, Benishek said races are far from the main focus of the trip. 
“The trip is not about competi­tion— we will have one smaller competition down there — but it’s mainly about training,” Ben­ishek said. “We’ll have a morning practice and an evening practice, and there’ll be some dry land training as well in there. 
“It’s a large focus on heavily training and gearing up for the 
see UNITY/page 18 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish ready for Copa Coqui 
By Jonathan Warren 
Sports Writer 
For the third Winter Break in a row, the Irish will train and compete at the Copa Co­qui collegiate swim meet in San Juan, Puerto Rico on Jan. 6. 
“The Copa Coqui is a re­freshing meet for us,” Irish Coach Tim Welsh said. “We come back energized. It’s both a meet and a break from training for us.” 
The Irish do not know which teams they will swim against yet as the list of competitors is not final, but Welsh says the field usually includes both American and Puerto Rican teams. 
“We’re able to go this meet as we are,” Welsh said. “We don’t take any special prepa­rations or back off our train­ing intensity.” 
The meet is different than any other the Irish partici­pate in this season. It fea­tures a 10-person relay to end the meet and gives fruit as a reward to the winners. The Irish will compete for their third consecutive fruit-winning relay performance. 
“The style of this meet is unlike anything we do in the U.S.,” Welsh said. “I like its festive quality. It has luxurious hospitality and has had maria­chi bands and other forms of entertainment perform in the past.” 

Once classes end, the team continues to train until Dec. 20, when most swimmers head home. The swimmers return to campus on Dec. 28 before leav­ing for Puerto Rico on Jan. 2. The Irish will train in Puerto Rico before the meet and will resume practice upon return­ing to South Bend for the spring portion of their season. 
“It’s the longest time where we can just train without class-
see TRAIN/page 18 




