the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND installs new video system at practice fields 
Universityeliminatesuseofscissorliftstofilmfootballpractices,investigationsintoDeclanSullivan’sdeathcontinue 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Notre Dame began installation Tuesday of a remote video sys­tem for its football practice fields, which will eliminate the need for elevated scissor lifts to film practices, according to a University press release. 
Declan Sullivan, a Notre Dame junior, died Oct. 27 after the scis­sor lift from which he was film­ing football practice fell. He was a student videographer for the football team. 
“I said in the days after Declan’s death that we would do everything in our power to make changes to ensure that such an accident does not happen again — here or elsewhere,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in the press release. “This sys­tem is at the forefront in a com­pletely new and innovative way.” 

The University expects the new video system to be in operation at the LaBar Practice Complex when the football team begins spring practice March 23, according to the press release. 
The system, designed by XOS Digital, will be the first of its kind and include four Panasonic cam­eras mounted on 50-foot poles, the press release stated. Three of the poles will stand at the south ends of the three practice fields, with the fourth pole at the north end of field No. 1. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said student videogra­phers would still manually film from the permanent towers and work to edit and produce films. 
Brown said Notre Dame began to work with XOS on the new video system in the weeks follow­ing Sullivan’s death. The Florida company has installed several systems in Notre Dame facilities in the past 10 years. 
“In looking for a way to improve safety in the weeks after the accident, Athletic Department officials asked the experts at XOS Digital about any ideas they might have, particu­larly in regard to somehow try­ing to mount a camera on top of a pole that would eliminate the need for hydraulic scissor lifts,” 
see VIDEO/page 5 



Freshmenparticipateinmeritscholarshipprogram 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Two years ago, two Notre Dame graduates made a large gift to the University with the intention of creating an undergraduate scholars pro­gram. This academic year, 25 freshmen became the first group of students to enter the University’s first merit-based scholarship program. 
Mark and Stacey Yusko, classes of ’85 and ’86 respec­tively, donated $35 million in 2009 to create the Hesburgh-Yusko Scholarship Program. 
The program selects 25 freshmen from each incoming class who demonstrate the characteristics of academic excellence, strong moral char­acter, leadership potential and a sincere commitment to serv­ice, Mark Yusko said. 
The scholars receive $25,000 toward their tuition each year, making the pro­gram Notre Dame’s first form of merit-based aid. They also receive funding for four sum­mers of enrichment programs. 
Each of the four summers, beginning prior to the stu­dent’s freshman year, has a different theme: wilderness leadership, social justice, global inquiry and profession­al venture. 

Yusko said the summer experiences are more than an educational program. 
“It is designed to take raw material and give it the tools and resources to develop into what we think are the plat­forms to become transforma­tional leaders,” he said. 
This idea of transformation­al leaders is central to the program, Yusko said. 
“One of the important things about the program is that it is not a reward for past achieve­ment, it is an investment in potential,” he said. “We want people who have true leader­ship character, a real passion for leading.” 
Yusko said his idea for the program came from similar programs at other schools, such as the Morehead-Cain Scholars Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
The formation of the Morehead Scholarships allowed UNC to attract the best students in the country by offering them such an incredi­ble opportunity, Yusko said, 
see SCHOLARS/page 5 


Green to reflectIrish landscape 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Current construction at Notre Dame’s Irish Green, which includes the addition of a new entrance inspired by Irish landscapes, will con­clude in the coming weeks, University Architect Doug Marsh said. 
The new entrance to Irish 



Mendozaachievestopschoolranking 

BLAIR.CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
Banners hang above the lobby of the Mendoza College of Business that read, “We are number one. It’s a responsibility.” 
After Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s March 3 announcement of Mendoza as the No. 1 undergraduate business school in the nation for the second con­secutive year, Mendoza Dean Carolyn Woo said this message holds true. 
“We really reinforce the message that you need to win with ethics,” Woo said. 
“We are most proud of the fact that a Catholic school that stands on this message is also recognized as the best business education. … This is a tremendous bless­ing for us to stand for our mission, to be a witness on behalf of the mission.” 
The ranking was part of BusinessWeek’s sixth annu­al survey of “The Best Undergraduate Business Schools.” 
After Notre Dame, BusinessWeek listed the University of Virginia, Emory University, the University of Pennsylvania 
see MENDOZA/page 4 
Green at the intersection of Angela Boulevard and Eddy Street will have stones and plantings based on natural Irish landscapes, Marsh said. Other additions include a seating wall and a new sign. 
“The setting of the Irish Green gives us the opportu­nity to introduce some beau­tiful natural materials unique to campus such as the Chilton limestone that comprises the new seating wall and monument sign sig­nifying the Irish Green,” Marsh said. 
The University began mak­ing both structural and land­scaping changes to Irish Green last semester, Marsh said, such as adding more trees and benches. 
“These enhancements were originally planned at the out-
see GREEN/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CCACdiscusseszoningpage3 Viewpointpage6 NotreDamebooksfortoddlers10 Women’sbasketballlosesinBigEastfinalspage16 
page 2 The Observer PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 9, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE WOULD YOU TAKE A PROSPECTIVE STUDENT?
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 





ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

Chris Trumbetta Tony Dang Christina Mondi David Fosselman Megan Bastedo 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz freshman junior freshman junior junior SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph Siegfried Siegfried Farley Siegfried Farley SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
“I would take a “To the Notre “To the dining “242 Siegfried “I would take 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

prospective Dame hall so they can Hall at 11:55 them to a
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos student to the Stadium.” have fro-yo and via the football game.” AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski gauntlet.” then to the parietals door.” CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
grotto.” 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER& GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
(574) 631-6927 


FAX Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 



ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
SYSTEMS& WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either NICOLE.TOCZAUER/The Observer 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse Students play frisbee and enjoy the start of spring on North Quad March 8. With advertisements based on content. 
the arrival of spring, students prepare for warmer weather, Spring Break and 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of  NCAA March Madness.  
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor,  
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors.  
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views  
of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.  OFFBEAT  
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free  
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged.  Scientists: Oldest wild bird  American Bird Banding  Alaska,  are  repeating  
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.  in US is new mother HONOLULU — The old- Program, said the alba­tross is the oldest wild  after one of the animals kicked a woman in the  
QuestionsregardingObserverpoliciesshouldbe directedtoEditor-in-ChiefDouglasFarmer.  est known wild bird in the U.S. is a new mother. A  bird documented by the 90-year-old bird banding  chest and shoulder at a city park. She was  
U.S. Fish and Wildlife  program, which is run by  checked  by  medics  
POST OFFICE INFORMATION  Service biologist spotted  the U.S. Geological Survey,  Monday afternoon and  
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during  the Laysan albatross that’s  the  Fish  and  Wildlife  didn’t have to go to a hos- 
exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER  at least 60 years old a few weeks ago. It was with a  Service, and Canada. “She looks great,”  pital. The Anchorage Daily  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address corrections to:  chick at Midway Atoll, a  Peterjohn said in a news  News reports the moose  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame  The Observer P.O. Box 779  remote wildlife refuge  release Tuesday. “To know  had been in Town Square  
and additional mailing offices.  024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779  1,300 miles northwest of  that she can still success- Park most of the day feed- 
Honolulu.  fully raise young at age  ing on trees. The woman  
A U.S. Geological Survey  60-plus, that is beyond  in her 20s was attacked  
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are  scientist first banded the  words.”  when she tried to pet it.  
reserved.  seabird as she incubated  Police  spokeswoman  
TODAY’S STAFF  an egg in 1956. She was estimated to be at least 5  Woman trying to pet moose in Alaska park gets kick  Anita Shell says the moose is not a threat unless pro- 
News  Sports  years old at the time. The albatross has since worn  ANCHORAGE, Alaska — Don’t mess with the  voked, so people need to give it space.  
Laura McCrystal  Joe Wirth  out five bird bands.  moose.  
Caitlin Housley  Kelsey Manning  Bruce Peterjohn, the  That’s  the  warning  Information compiled  
Carly Landon  Eric Prister  chief  of  the  North  police  in  Anchorage,  from the Associated Press.  
Graphics  Scene  
Blair Chemidlin  Troy Mathew  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Sarah O’Connor  Ren Brauweiler  



IN BRIEF 
The physics colloquium “Spin-Orbit Qubit in a Nanowire” will be held today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland ScienceHall. Dr. Sergey Frolov from the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands will head the colloquium. 
Guest lecturer Heather K. Hunt will present a seminar on “Optoelectronics: Making a Material Difference” today at 
4:15 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall, Room 13. Hunt is a postdoc­toral scholar in the Mork Family Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science at the University of Southern California. 
Professor Wai Chee Dimock will present the lecture “Literature as Public Humanities” at 5 p.m. today in the EckCenterAuditorium. This speech is the last day of the 2010-2011 Annual Ward-Phillips Lecture Series: “American Literature and the World.” 
Dhiru Thadani will give the lecture “Urbanism: A Perspective Solution to the Global Crisis” today at 5p.m. in 104BondHall. A book sign­ing of Thadani’s work The Language of Towns and Cities will follow the lecture in the Bond Hall Gallery. 
The Class of 2013 will pres­ent the “Modern Stations of theCross”tonightfrom 7p.m. to 9 p.m. at Sorin Hall. the event celebrates Ash Wednesday and the beginning of the 40 days of Lent. Refreshments will be served following the event. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
LOCAL WEATHER 



CORRECTIONS 

A March 7 article, “Steiner lectures on sustainable farming,” misstated lecturer Jerry Steiner’s view on the impact of corn ethanol production. Steiner said corn ethanol production does reduce the amount of corn 



produced for food, but not to the extent claimed by its critics. The Observer regrets this error. 
LOW 40 LOW 30 LOW 27 LOW 36 LOW 25 LOW 23 


Wednesday, March 9, 2011 The Observer CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SaintMary’sannounces classelectionresults 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s announced class board election results Monday for the 2011-12 term. 
Maggie DePaola and Noelle Radko won class of 2012 presi­dent and vice president, 
Torrie Thompson and Heidi Etzel will lead the class of 2013, and Elliot Miller and Rachael Bridgman won the positions of president and vice president for the class of 2014. 
DePaola and Radko said they have high hopes for their sen­ior year. 
“We really want to unite our class and make this last year a memorable one,” DePaola said. 
Radko said her experience on this year’s junior class board would help her to continue rep­resenting the class of 2012. 
“Being on the board for the past three years [has] made me extremely passionate about the class of 2012, and the mark we hope to leave, not only on Saint Mary’s, but on the South Bend community as well,” Radko said. 
Radko said she and DePaola would prioritize building on already existing events for the senior class, rather than cre­ating new events. 
“A very successful Senior Dads’ weekend is definitely our top priority,” Radko said. “We are currently planning Junior Moms’ Weekend, so we feel comfortable to accept this challenge. We also want to make our Senior Week afford­able, highly interactive and unified.” 
The pair said they also hope to see more student feedback from the class of 2012. 
“[DePaola] and I also plan to increase student input in sen­ior activities, as we hope to make our final year at Saint Mary’s our best,” Radko said. 
As leaders of the junior class board, Thompson and Etzel said they hope to increase involvement and foster rela­tionships both on Saint Mary’s campus and between the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities, they said. 
“We hope to build on the foundation that was begun dur­ing the past school year,” Etzel said. “We are introducing new activities such as our Notre Dame Boy Basket Auction and Class Picnic.” 
The pair said they also look for­ward to leading the junior class in previously held activities. “In addition to these new ideas, we are excited to plan the tradi­tional Junior Formal and Junior Moms’ Weekend,” Etzel said. “With our class board, we hope that our plans for this year will make it the best yet at Saint Mary’s.” 
Etzel said they would like to leave a memorable impact on the class of 2013. 
“We ran for president and vice president of our class because we love being involved in the Saint Mary’s communi­ty,” Etzel said. “With our involvement, we hope to create strong bonds and sustain last­ing friendships among our classmates while acting as a positive influence within the Saint Mary’s College communi­ty.” 
As leaders of next year’s sophomore class, Miller and Bridgman said they hope to plan laid-back and frequent activities. 
“[Miller and I want] to encourage more students to voice their opinions about hot topics at Saint Mary’s and plan more fun, informal events,” Bridgman said. 
Miller said they are ready to jump in and begin planning things such as Sophomore Parents’ Weekend and Sophomore Formal. 
“[Bridgman] and I have so many ideas,” Miller said. “We are both very enthusiastic about planning events for our classmates.“ 
Miller said she wants to gen­erate pride for their class and the College. 
“As president of Saint Mary’s Class of 2014, I hope to represent and lead my class­mates in such a way that encourages each woman to love [Saint Mary’s] as much as I do,” she said. 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 






CCACdiscusseszoninglaw 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
A large number of students are currently renting off-cam­pus residences against zoning laws, said Director of South Bend Code Enforcement Catherine Toppel at Tuesday’s Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) meeting. 
A 2004 zoning bill required all owners seeking to rent a in it, there has to be documen­tation.” 
Toppel said her office is pre­pared to pursue legal action against offending property owners. 
“I’m moving forward with violation notices and ticketing procedures, and those will eventually go to court,” she said. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said she is con­cerned about students who 
residence to more than two already signed unrelated people had to come leases for the before a committee for 2011 -2012 approval, City Council Member without know-Ann Puzzello said. Many homes ing a home’s were grandfathered into zoning laws. exemption. “I think at 
“I’ve been working on it in this point every-my office, all of these houses one for next being used illegally, potentially year has hundreds that have too many already signed students,” Toppel said. “None their leases,” of these houses have been she said. “I’d be grandfathered, these are just interested to people blatantly skirting the know what the we’ve also got the leasing fair,” she said. 
department  other resources  
they might say they  “I think at this point  available to them. “ T h e r e ’ s  
have no information on a proper­ty, which  everyone for next year has already signed their leases ... I’d be  resources out there, it’s whether kids are really taking the  
doesn’t mean  interested to know  time to look,”  
it wasn’t g r a n d f a -thered, it  what the timeline would be for kicking  Sexton said. Soler said the beND Good  
just means there’s no documenta­ people out of their leases.”  Neighbor Guide distributed this year is one  
tion,” she  source of infor­ 
said. “My bill  Catherine Soler  mation available  
is to make a definite doc­umentation  student body president  to students facing leasing problems. “[The Good  
part that is  Neighbor Guide]  

Local landlord Mark Kramer said the zoning problems were another indication that a desig­nated area for off-campus stu­dent housing could help allevi­ate some of the difficulties aris­ing from the student presence in South Bend. 
“The reality of it is, for the students, [moving off campus] is a right of passage,” he said. “Wouldn’t it make sense to 

“The reality of it is, for the students, [moving off campus] is a right of passage.” 
Mark Kramer local landlord 
have one desig­nated area that won’t be dis­turbing to the neighbors, that you could build nice houses that would be up to code and could be a gated area where the stu­dents feel safe?” 
Local attorney and Notre Dame graduate Dick 

required, so if a house is is available on [the student grandfathered to put students government] website, and 

Nussbaum said it was an inter­esting point but would likely meet resistance in the commu­nity. 
“You’ve raised the issue and I think it needs to be discussed ... I think the forum for it is the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization,” he said. “In all frankness, you’re not going to have a wel­coming forum for it.” 
Several members said there was no available location for such a project, but Kramer said renovating some areas of the city through such a project could benefit both students and South Bend residents. 
“These houses are sources of problems for students and problems for the neighbor­hood. They’re vacant, they’re graffitied and they’re sources of crime,” he said. “The Northeast neighborhood is going to be the winner as well. It seems to me that [housing developers and city residents] could work in harmony.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

law ... there’s been one land­lord in particular that has just been a huge problem.” 
Puzzello said records are often insufficient in identifying which houses have been grand­fathered into the system. She is currently working on a bill to ensure consistent record keep­ing. 
“If you go over to the building timeline would be for kicking people out of their leases.” 
Toppel said the offending res­idences would have to be resolved by the beginning of the next school year. 
University Associate Vice President for Public Affairs Tim Sexton said it is important for students to ask landlords the right questions and to use 
page 4 The Observer CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 9, 2011 


Green 
continued from page 1 
set of the [Irish Green] proj­ect,” Marsh said, “but have been incrementally designed in response to how we saw this new campus open space used by the Notre Dame and broader South Bend commu­nities.” 
Marsh said Irish Green was meant to be a versatile space. 
“The Irish Green dedicates a tremendous amount of open space … that is open for all to enjoy for a variety of occasions or purposes,” Marsh said, “such for spe­cial campus events like [football] Game Day or a concert on the lawn, for a campus walk, for a place to picnic or read a book, or for just travelling through on 


Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
and Cornell University in the top five business schools. 
According to a University press release, Mendoza ranked in the top spot due to the school’s 98 percent placement rate three months after graduation. Notre Dame also received the highest rate of student satisfaction. 
“Where we stand out is really the students’ experi­ence, the quality of the teaching, the outreach of the alumni and the extraor­dinary placement office,” Woo said. “The goal is not to optimize our performance on the rankings. We just want our students to be very successful.” 
In the past two years, Woo said the college introduced 
a new course called “Foresight for Business and Society” as a requirement for all juniors in the busi­ness school. The course looks at future trends in business and their implica­tions for industry. 
“It differentiates our stu­dents from the other busi­ness schools when they go interviewing [for jobs],” she said. “The way they talk, the topics they can shed light on, the way they can describe their interests are all at a different level.” 
While the college excelled in several areas of the BusinessWeek survey, Woo said Mendoza struggles with over enrollment and a high student-to-faculty ratio. The current ratio is almost 20 students to one Mendoza faculty member, while most private schools strive for an eight-to-one ratio. 
Mendoza’s ideal enroll­ment is roughly 550 stu­dents per class year, Woo said, but the most recently the way to Eddy Street Commons.” 
Marsh said he hopes the current construction will allow Irish Green to become a greater connection between Notre Dame’s cam­pus and the South Bend community. 
“From large expanses of lawn to shaded walks and sitting areas, the Irish Green serves as both a des­tination as well as place of transition from campus-to­community and community-to-campus,” Marsh said. “Once completed, the work currently underway will underscore both of these purposes and will con­tinue to do so, especially as the landscape grows and matures in the years ahead.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
enrolled sophomore class is around 640 students. 
“Our enrollment is going through the roof,” she said. “Right now the next step is really brainstorming about undergraduate enrollment, what is the right size.” 
Currently, Notre Dame freshmen can select any col­lege and major. This year, Mendoza students were informed they might not always be able to pursue their preference inside the college. 
Woo said the finance major is capped at 250 stu­dents, but 290 current soph­omores indicated finance as their first choice. The col­lege will evaluate all these students using an algorithm based on academic stand­ing, and they will then select 250 students to fill the finance major. The other 40 students will need to choose another business major. 
“We are right now brain­storming about what we need to do,” Woo said. “I think strategically for the University of Notre Dame, having more distribution across the colleges and across majors is a healthier development than having a big concentration or cluster around one or two majors.” 
Woo said the University has not reached a conclu­sion about how to solve the problem. 
“Despite the fact that we are completely overenrolled, every year we graduate, including the graduate pro­gram, over 1,000 students,” she said. “And so the idea of the impact of having over 1,000 students go into industry and carry this mes­sage of integrity and com­mon good as a basis for suc­cess really gives me a lot of satisfaction.” 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Groupplans for freshmen 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
The Council of Representatives (COR) looked to the upcoming year and planned for the incoming freshmen class dur­ing its meeting Tuesday. 
The representatives dis­cussed the future of the First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership (FUEL) program as it concludes its first year. 
FUEL director Ricky Bevington said FUEL is an improvement on the previous program, Freshmen Leadership Experience (FLEX). 
“This year FUEL had a dif­ferent focus,” Bevington said. “FUEL educates freshmen about different branches of student government. The group is about 50 students, and then they are integrated in Senate committees.” 
Bevington said FLEX taught 
students about campus leader­ship but did not integrate them enough into actual student government projects and positions. FLEX ran for two years before FUEL replaced it for the 2010­11 academic year. 
Student body president Catherine Soler 
FUEL members learned presentation than the large about student government “College HAS Issues” talk dur­organization and initiatives ing freshman orientation. before they were integrated “I think this could more 
into  Senate  effectively come  
committees.  through  the  
Bevington said these freshmen were able to c o n t r i b u t e more fully and learn more about the work­ings of student  “I think the program itself was .ne ... [b]ut I think if it was just in the basement of the dorms it would be more effective.”  dorm and hall staff rather than a big meeting,” he said. “Even if an RA sat down one-on-one with freshmen, it would be a lot  
g o v e r n m e n t  more  comfort- 
policy than pre­vious FLEX participants. “FUEL can  Heater Eaton freshman class president  able.” F r e s h m a n class president Heather Eaton  

help people know about dif­ferent student government positions,” Bevington said. “But also it can help them find where they fit best inside stu­dent government.” 
Bevington said the current leaders would present an 
“FUEL educates freshmen about different branches of student government. The group is about 50 students, and then the are integrated in Senate committees.” 
Ricky Bevington FUEL director 
amendment to the Student Union Constitution to keep the FUEL program run­ning. 
Council mem­bers also ana­lyzed the fresh­man experience at “College HAS Issues.” Soler said student government and administration has been work­ing to better agreed that a 
better environ­ment for the talk was needed. 
“I think the program itself was fine,” she said. “But I think if it was just in the base­ment of the dorms it would be more effective.” 
Judicial Council brought its future plans before COR as well. Judicial Council presi­dent Marcelo Perez nominated junior Susanna Sullivan as Judicial Council president for the upcoming year. 
Sullivan served as the vice president of peer advocacy on the Judicial Council this year and advised on many cases that have appeared before the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Perez said. 
“She is a well-rounded per­son all around, and she has my full support,” Perez said. 
The representatives approved Sullivan, and she will begin in her position on April 1. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

said many in the inaugural FUEL group will serve in stu­dent government positions, such as hall senator or presi­dent. 


educate freshmen about sexu­al assault and alcohol. 
Junior class president James Ward said freshmen might be more engaged in a smaller 

Applications are available on the Core Council Website: 

or can be picked up from: 


The Office of Student Affairs 
316 Main Building 8am-5pm Monday—Friday 
Completed applications are due: 

Friday, March 11 by 5pm Deliver to: 
The Office of Student Affairs 

ATTN: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP 
YOUR PARTICIPATION IN THIS COUNCIL WILL: 
" HELP IDENTIFY ONGOING NEEDS OF GLBT & QUESTIONING STUDENTS 
" HELP IMPLEMENT CAMPUS WIDE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMING, SUPPORT AND OUTREACH. 


Visit Web Site for M Infor ati 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 9, 2011 The Observer CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
are conducting ongoing investi­gations into the Oct. 27 accident. 


Video 

IOSHA’s investigation is still in continued from page 1 progress, said Stephanie McFarland, spokesperson for the 
Brown said. Indiana Department of Labor. 
Brown said XOS presented a “Everything is progressing proposal for the new system in along the investigative line and January. Tuesday began the there is nothing new to report at process of installing the cameras, this time,” McFarland said. which Brown said are the size of “They’re going to go into the television broadcast cameras, on organization and they’re going to top of the poles and raising the essentially look at anything and poles to full height. everything within the scope of 
The cameras will remain on the law that they’re allowed to top of the poles in temperature-look at in relation to the inci­controlled units, the press dent.” release stated. A fiber-optic net-IOSHA investigations result in work will transmit video to a safety orders when appropriate, control room in the Guglielmino McFarland said. These orders Athletic Complex for members of reveal findings and inform insti­the athletics video services tutions of citations or fines. 
department to edit and produce for players and coaches. “In bringing its tremendous tech­nology expertise to the table, XOS  “We are committed to memorializing Declan’s zest for life and presence at Nore Dame in a  McFarland said she is unable to say when IOSHA’s investigation at Notre Dame will be complete. “The law does not state any- 
has worked hand in hand with our football program to form a part­nership that now provides a new method of  meaningful and lasting way.” Fr. John Jenkins University President  thing specific to how quickly an investigation should be con­cluded,” she said. “They just take as long as they  
obtaining video  need to do [inves­ 

materials that our coaches and tigations] properly.” players utilize,” Notre Dame Brown said Notre Dame also Director of Athletics Jack does not currently have addition-Swarbrick said in the press al information to release on its release. own investigation. 
Both Notre Dame and the Executive Vice President John Indiana Occupational Safety and Affleck-Graves is overseeing the Health Administration (IOSHA) University’s internal investiga-tion, Brown said. This role includes coordinating University personnel and outside experts involved in the investigation. 

The University appointed Peter Likins, former president of the University of Arizona and Lehigh University, to conduct the exter­nal review of Notre Dame’s inter­nal investigation. 
Likins told The Observer in November that his role would include assessing the University’s investigation results. 
In addition to creating the remote video system, the press release stated that XOS will con­tribute to the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund estab­lished by the Sullivan family. 
“We appreciate this wonderful contribution by XOS to the Sullivan family’s memorial fund,” Swarbrick said. “Our staff remembers Declan fondly, and our prayers remain with his fam­ily and friends.” 
Notre Dame officials are work­ing with the Sullivan family to determine how the University can honor Sullivan’s legacy, the press release stated. 
“We are committed to memori­alizing Declan’s zest for life and presence at Notre Dame in a meaningful and lasting way,” Jenkins said. “Our conversations with his family members will shape Notre Dame’s memorials of Declan in a manner that give authentic and proper tribute to their son and brother.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 



Scholars 
continued from page 1 
and he wanted to see a similar effect at Notre Dame. 
“One of the things I believed was we were still missing a cohort of great students, par­ticularly great leaders, and great Catholic leaders who were being wooed away by Harvard, Yale, Princeton,” he said. 
As the program grows, scholars can be nominated either by their high schools or Notre Dame’s early action admissions committee. However, Yusko hopes 

high schools “The class we brought in will provide 
last year, we got half that 
the majority 

class directly away from
of nomina­tions in the other schools where they future. 
were headed.” 
Based on the first class of Hesburgh-Mark Yusko Yusko schol-benefactor 
ars, Yusko Hesburgh-Yusko Scholarship said he sees 
Program
the program as a success. 
“The class we brought in last year, we got half that class directly away from other schools where they were headed,” he said. 
Freshman Kate Squiers, a Hesburgh-Yusko scholar, said she had not chosen a college when she received the schol­arship offer, and it had a huge impact on her decision. 
Squiers, who was involved in fine arts and service in high school, will be traveling to Pune, India for eight weeks this summer. 
She will attend classes for two of those weeks, and then, based on her interests, will be placed with an NGO for the remaining six. 
Morgan Benson, another freshman Hesburgh-Yusko scholar, is looking forward to spending the summer in Lesotho, Africa, at a home for children who are malnour­ished or affected by HIV or Tuberculosis. 
For their wilderness immer­sion last summer, both Benson and Squiers traveled to 
Washington and spent three weeks sea kayak­ing and moun­taineering. 
“We all went by ourselves. It’s sup­posed to be an intro­spe ctive, independent experience,” Squiers said. “You were with a group of 
eight to 10 people, but no one from Notre Dame.” 
While last summer’s adven­ture had to be organized through the program, Benson said the scholars had a great deal of freedom in choosing their destinations for this summer. 
“This year they basically told us to write a grant pro­posal based on our interests and where we’d like to go and what we wanted to do, and then we had interviews to talk about our options,” she said. 

The scholars do not have many requirements at Notre Dame, Squiers said. One is enrolling in a one-and-a-half credit weekly seminar, in which they listen to a speaker or discuss current news. 
Each Hesburgh-Yusko schol­ar also participates in weekly service. 
Freshman Ben Finan said he satisfies this requirement by working with the Jewish Federation of St. Joseph Valley. 
“It’s a community organiza­tion, they’ve been trying to reach out to college students and get involved here and I’ve been helping facilitate that,” Finan said. 
Benson works with Timmy Foundation for her service requirement. Squiers became involved with Campus Ministry and Archangels, a South Bend organization that mentors teenagers. 
Finan, who hopes to spend this summer at Seeds of Peace, a diversity camp in Maine, said he has enjoyed his experience in the program so far, mostly due to the other scholars. 
“It’s fostered a lot of friend­ships because it brings 25 people together who aren’t necessarily the same person­ality-wise, but who are all strong people and good lead­ers,” he said. “It’s really a great group of people to be around.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 



NDprofresearches Irishmentalhealth 
Special to The Observer 
Though exposure to any type of violence can cause anti-social behavior in children, a new study from the University of Notre Dame shows that political tension and sectarian violence causes additional mental health prob­lems in children by creating inse­curity about their neighborhoods and communities. The study was published recently in the Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology. 
Notre Dame Psychology Professor Mark Cummings and colleagues studied the effects on children of sectarian violence between Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland. The longitudinal study, which took three years to complete, examined 18 families (695 moth­ers and children) from working class neighborhoods in Belfast. Results showed heightened aggression and violence, revenge-seeking and insecure attachment in children who experienced this political vio­lence, as well as elevated levels of depression, withdrawal, sleep disorders, fear and panic because of feeling nervous and threatened by people. 
“Though exposure to both sec­tarian and non-sectarian violence are related to anti-social behav­ior, the emotional insecurity caused by politically-motivated community violence was more powerful than we had expected,” according to Cummings, co-founder of Notre Dame’s Center for Children and Families and faculty fellow at Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Non-sectarian violence is ‘‘ordi­nary crime’’ that may be found in any community, regardless of political context, and is not specifically indicated between ethnic, religious or cultural groups. 
Though the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement was reached in 1998, providing some inter-community cooperation, many neighbor­hoods and schools in Belfast remain highly segregated; a large percentage of adolescents in Belfast have experienced violence within their community, which reflects a social and psychological legacy of “The Troubles.” 
Understanding and addressing the effects of political strife on communities, families and chil­dren is critical for any likelihood of sustained peace, according to Cummings, and this study has promise for building a foundation for how to intervene more effec­tively and prevent problems. 
“The children growing up today will have to take the peace process forward in the years to come. For this reason, ameliorat­ing children’s insecurity about sectarian tensions and violence over the long term should be seen as an important goal if last­ing peace is to be achieved,” Cummings said. 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, March 9, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

‘Squatters’ 
displays 

diversity 

Before I begin, here is a caveat. My idea for what would eventually become this column began about a month ago at Reckers at 2 a.m. on a Wednesday night. It was an essay on diversity for Contemporary Conor Kelly Topics, and, never one to Sports
Production 
take a 

Editor 
Contemporary Topics assign­ment lightly, I bet my friends that I could finish it in the fifteen minutes it took them to finish their food. The instance that I wrote about, however, I still find quite interesting and quite indicative of a certain part of the Notre Dame experience. 
The genesis of my paper had been about a month before this fated Reckers trip when, having left my seat on the couch in my room to use the vending machine downstairs, I returned to find a fellow freshman audaciously planted in the seat I had occupied just moments before. I, of course, asserted that I had called “fives” on the seat, which I foolishly assumed was universally understood as meaning that I had that seat saved for five minutes. I always thought it was a well-known fact that everybody said “fives.” Apparently this was not the case as my geographically diverse group of friends told me that there was no such word as “fives” and then pre­ceded to rattle off a list of possible substitutes that made my head spin. 
While we eventually ascertained upon taking a spontaneous survey of anyone in Carroll Hall awake at 1 
a.m. on a Monday night that “fives” was acceptable on the east coast, we learned that “seat check” was the thing to say in California, while the Midwest consisted of everything from “scoobies” to “quack-quack-seat­back” (don’t ask me how either of those two make any sense). In Ecuador, apparently there is some mysterious ritual involving the removal of one’s shoe. 
While this might seem somewhat trite or, some might say, downright stupid, I feel it is an interesting snapshot into our experience of diversity at Notre Dame. I will be the first to admit that we are not the most diverse campus in the world, but there are instances like the one above that make you appreciate the different types of people around you. Diversity, or the lack thereof, is a buzzword that is often bandied about as some sort of goal, and in some sense it is. My experience, however, has been enriched by hearing all the different ways one can save a seat. Maybe this does not “count” as diversity, but it is an example of a phenomenon that has helped to make my experience of Notre Dame. I hope it speaks to someone as much as it did my Contemporary Topics teacher. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


Newcollegedegrees 
Recently there’s been a lot of furor over the MRS and MR degrees, owing to a shocking expose by a SMC chick who revealed that neither of them were actu­al degrees. I have taken upon myself to provide a short, non-exhaustive list Brooks Smith of other degrees that don’t exist but Humanity’s probably ought to. Bro 
The ABC (Anything But Class) Degree — Given to the graduating senior who has skipped class the most times in their college career. 
The Rudy-gree — An award given to the student or students who have watched the movie “Rudy,” starring Sean Astin in the title role, the most times out of the senior class. Honorable mentions are given as follows: A Dork Award is given to those who have surpassed their classmates in repeat viewings of any movie from the Lord Of The Rings trilogy, which features Sean Astin as Frodo’s faithful sidekick Samwise Gamgee; and a Goon Award is given to those who have watched “Goonies” most out of anybody, which features Sean Astin as Mikey. 
The Radian — Awarded to the science professor who has been most pedantic and nitpicky about units and significant digits. Also awarded to the undergradu­ate science major(s) who constantly raise their hand in science classes to ask ques­tion about — or correct the professor’s mistakes with — units and significant digits. 
The Bachelor Degree — Awarded to the most eligible bachelor in the gradu­ating class, for being so fine. 
The Athlete’s Degree — Awarded to all athletes who manage to graduate, for their success in neither flunking out nor attempting to go pro as an undergradu­ate, like Jimmy Clausen. 
The BS Degree — Not to be confused with the Bachelor of Science degree (what an apt name, right?), this degree goes to the graduating senior who has prevaricated the most about his or her alcohol abuse, academic excellence, sex­ual exploits and/or prowess or any of said experiences which took place in high school and are therefore unverifi­able. Awarded by a jury of his/her peers. 
The MIB Degree — When you open your diploma, you will find a blank sheet of paper. Do not panic or mention this sheet of paper to friends, family or Father Jenkins. Simply walk over to the Hesburgh Library and mention to the security guards at the front desk that you need to see Father Hesburgh about your degree. You will be escorted to the 13th floor and shown into Father Hesburgh’s office. 
Father Hesburgh will be in one of those brown, tall-backed swivel chairs, looking out over campus and puffing on a stogie with his back to you. He will rotate slowly, shift the cigar to one side of his mouth, plant his hands firmly on the desk, and stand to greet you. 
After the preliminary pleasantries, he will tell you that you have been specially selected to join the Men In Black. He will explain that, far from being a private Catholic university, Notre Dame is actu­ally an extraterrestrial missile defense site. He will tell you that the Dome con­ceals a mounted array of 16 anti­positronic lasers which make up the entirety of North America’s alien inva­sion defense (and a bunch of other awe­some facts.) 
If you choose to accept, you will team up with wisecracking partner Will Smith and go on a number of wacky and har­rowing adventures. If you decline, Father Hesburgh will flash you with one of those blinking red lights and then politely escort you out of his office, while telling you an entertaining story about some hijinks he used to get up to with Martin Luther King, Jr. Your regular diploma will arrive in the mail in four to six weeks. 
The ABC (Always Been Crunk) Degree 
— Given to the graduating senior who has been, by popular acclamation, most often sloppily drunk over the course of their time at Notre Dame. 
The Athlete Degree — Not to be con­fused with the similarly named Athlete’s Degree, this one goes to the male or female who has hooked up with the most athletes during their college tenure. 
The 98 Degrees — A boy band from the late nineties and early oughts, not an actual college degree. If you see this on your diploma, something has gone seri­ously wrong. 
The Tardy-gree — Awarded to that one kid who always showed up to class ten minutes late with a cup of coffee and took their sweet time unpacking while the professor and everyone else in the class shot them dirty looks that went completely over their head. 
The Lagree — My roommate’s last name, also not an actual college degree. If you see this on your diploma, could you take out the trash for once? Jerk. 
The MS Degree — Awarded to the most eligible bachelorette in the graduating class, for being so fine. 
Feel free to make up your own degrees. I myself will spend the rest of the semester going full-throttle for the ABC. 
Theviewsexpressedinthiscolumnare thoseoftheauthorandnotnecessarily thoseofTheObserver. 
BrooksSmithisaseniorhonors mathematicsmajorandcanbereached atbsmith26@nd.edu 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 


POLL OF THE WEEK 
What areyour plans for SpringBreak? 
I'mgoing home 
Somewherewarms andsunny with friends Goingona service trip Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Convinced myself, I seek not to convince.” 
Edgar Allan Poe
U.S. author and poet 

The Observer 


Viewpoint 
Wednesday, March 9, 2011 page 7 
Wemustfacereality 
I am writing this piece on behalf of the taxpayers across this country that are caught in the middle of the debate over public sector union compensation. We are in very tough economic times, and work­ers, both in the private and public Mickey Gardella sectors, have had to make sacrifices GuestColumnist in their personal and family budgets. It is evident that while taxpayers have had to make adjustments in their budgets, some public sector union bosses think they should be immune from necessary fiscal austerity measures. To be clear, I am directing my argument to the leaders of the public sector unions, not necessarily the rank and file. 
Public sector benefits have been bal­looning for decades with no regard for the taxpayers that have to pay for salary increases well above the rate of inflation and lavish health and pension benefits. The day of reckoning is here for many states. Pension and health benefit systems are nearly bankrupt and, due to the harsh 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Necessary dialogue 
Thank you, Shea Streeter, for starting the conversation on sexual assault at Notre Dame (“Necessary conversations,” Mar. 7). As a man this issue affects me differently than it does women. Nevertheless, this is an issue with which I have a close personal relationship and have had many conversa­tions about. I have two friends from home who have been victims of rape/sexual assault and, quite frankly, the conversations I’ve had with them are very different from the ones “College HAS Issues” tells us we ought to have. 
We learn freshman year that the man is eternally at fault, regardless of the situation 
— easy for our women to accept, but not as easy for the men. While this is not always spelled out as explicitly, it seems quite often to be the tacit assumption. Now, don’t get me wrong, there are guys here who are guilty as you charge them, but I’m not sure such a blanket approach is the most appropriate one. Nearly all talks I had following that seminar revolved around one question: “What if she says yes?” 
Tradition says that if the female is drunk, then the man should know better, and I wholeheartedly agree. I despise the kind of man who would force himself on a woman who clearly objects. The question, though, is should he be a criminal, especially if he’s drunk too? The oft given response to my question is that alcohol is not an excuse. And yet, this strikes me as quite the double standard. Is alcohol not the same basis by which the victim’s consent is dismissed? 
I am not narrow-minded enough to believe that all rape and sexual assault cases pro­ceed in this fashion, but I think that this spe­cific case is especially relevant to college stu­dents. Now it is important to recognize the dichotomy between the situation I describe here, and one where the female clearly says, “No.” Unfortunately, with alcohol added to the mix, figuring out which situation is which can become nearly impossible. It’s a difficult situation no matter how you look at it, but in fairness to us males, I think it’s important to consider the following. Sexual assault is defined as any unwanted sexual contact. Is it sexual assault if it’s consensual by night but a mistake in the morning? 
Kevin Padden 
junior 
Keenan Hall 
Mar. 8 

economic times, most state governments realize that it is not feasible to tax their way out of the problem. 
Governors like Scott Walker among oth­ers have proposed necessary and prudent measures to lay groundwork for sound state finances in the future. The public sector unions, not understanding the structural problems that are plaguing state budgets, have stood in opposition. Walker and other governors, such as Chris Christie of New Jersey, have put forth a simple message: Public sector unions must contribute more to their health care and pension benefits if they expect those bene­fits to actually be there in the future. 
The public sector, on average, pays con­siderably less than the private sector toward their health and retirement bene­fits. If we are to have any sense of fiscal sanity, public sector workers need to sac­rifice and bring their benefit contributions into line with reality, i.e. the private sector, which cannot pass the buck onto taxpay­ers. 
To put more of a burden on taxpayers in these economic times, with taxes too high already, would be irresponsible and would not make states any better off. Benefit costs will continue to balloon if the system remains unchanged, and states will tax their citizens out of hope for future pros­perity. 
With respect to collective bargaining, several governors have or have proposed placing caps on the rate of salary increase for public workers. Rates of salary increase for public workers have been unsustainably high in many states, further crushing taxpayers in their state and local taxes. 
Collective bargaining procedures have been heavily in favor of the unions, with the taxpayer not having a seat at the table. Walker’s plan would cap the rate of salary increase at the level of inflation, only to be overridden by voter approval. It makes sense that the people who foot the bill for public sector salary increases final­ly have an opportunity to have their voices heard. 
By making tough choices now, jobs will be saved and created. In Wisconsin, upwards of 10,000 public workers could be laid off if the wages and benefits sys­tems are not reformed. So public sector jobs will be saved if Walker’s plan is enacted. 
I am not arguing that reforming public sector wages and benefits are the only problems that states have in their budg­ets, but in many cases they are a serious problem. Each state must face this con­crete reality of crushing debt head on or risk financial collapse. Unlike the federal government, states cannot print money, so the matter is even more urgent. Sacrifice will not be easy or enjoyable, but it must be done so that future generations as well as current generations can attain prosper­ity. 
Theviewsexpressedinthiscolumnare thoseoftheauthorandnotnecessarily thoseofTheObserver. 
MickeyGardellaisasophomore majoringinpoliticalscience.Hecanbe reachedatmgardell@nd.edu 




DefacingtheUniversity 
Disclaimer: I want to make it clear that I am not addressing this letter to all of the residents of Zahm House. I have several friends in Zahm and am sure that most residents are generally good guys. This is to, as our rector Br. Jerome said, “a few rot­tenapples.” 
We get it. Zahm has a very interesting reputation on campus and a few of you try very hard to maintain it. Also, I under­stand your disappointment and anger in your team’s loss to Knott in the interhall hockey championship and our alleged possession of your prized moose bust (I would like to stress “alleged,” as I have no knowledge of the whereabouts of the moose). 
However, as I left for class this morning, I was disgusted to see a number of spraypainted red “Z”s on the outside of Knott. The line was crossed. You have not only disrespected all of the residents of Knott, but also (as Knott is the property of Notre Dame) everyone who attends or works for the University. It is my home and the home of my closest friends at school. 
Although Knott is neither very asthetically pleasing (despite my love for Reagan-era architecture) nor historically significant, I equate its defacement with that of any other building on cam­pus. 
Furthermore,thevandalismcreatesmoreworkforthemain­tenance staff that tries so hard to keep our campus clean, safe and beautiful. I hope that the guilty parties will ‘fess up, but I doubt that anyone capable of such shortsighted and disrespect­fulactswouldpossesstheintegritytoownuptotheirwrongs. 
I guess you can keep the bun runs, but to whoever did this, pleasegrowup. 
Peace, 
Luke Murphy 
freshman Knott Hall Mar. 8 


PILLARSposters,FYI 
Hi,PILLARS. 

You didn’t have a contact email on your website, so I’m forced to write a letter to The Observer. Inefficient, I know. But it says on your website that “Education is Golden,” so I thought I’d do a little educating while I’m at it. I want to address your most current poster campaign — the one where you compare the percentage alcohol in Listerine and Rubbing Alcohol to Everclear, and then list a bunch of terrible things that will hap­penifyoudrinkListerine. Therearesomeproblemswithit. 
Let’sbebrief: 

ProblemNo.1:Listerineisn’tmadeforhumanconsumption. 
Problem No. 2: Rubbing alcohol isn’t made for human con­sumption. 
Doyouknowwhateucalyptol,menthol,methylsalicylateand thymol are? I didn’t either, but the Listerine website was really informative. Those fine chemicals are the active ingredients of Listerine, and also the reason why you shouldn’t drink it. Becausethey’repoisonous. 
There’s a similar issue with rubbing alcohol. On the poster, you don’t specify what kind of rubbing alcohol you’re referring to. Let’s assume for a minute it’s isopropyl alcohol. Now, iso­propyl alcohol isn’t ethyl alcohol, which is what you drink. The chemical difference is important — isopropyl alcohol is poison­ous. And even if the rubbing alcohol in question was 70 per­cent ethanol, the makers are specially required by the FDA to addchemicalstoittoMAKEITpoisonous. 
It’s like you’re trying to say we shouldn’t drink orange juice because it has ingredients in common with orange scented Lysol, and drinking cleaning products kills. The symptoms list­ed on your poster aren’t caused by the alcohol in these prod­ucts, they’re caused by the additives — additives that were specificallyaddedtopreventpeoplefromdrinkingthem!That’s thewholepoint! 
I appreciate your mission, PILLARS, but this is just nonsensi­cal. Havesomerespectfortheintelligenceofyouraudience. 

Katie Pieper 
junior 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
Mar. 8 


ToZahm,withlove 
Dear Citizens of Zahm House, 
Thank you for redecorating the outside of our dorm. Mod Quad is not known for its lavish exteriors, so your splashes of paint are a welcome addition. Please pick up your trash next time: We found a spray paint can under one of our trees. We would appreciate it if you sent an angry version of one of Santa’s reindeer to come and pick it up. Speaking of antlered vermin (not you, Carroll), if our collection of stuffed animals happened to have increased by one this weekend, we would require more minerals to ensure its safe return into the wild. However, if said animal were to contract any number of biblical-related plagues, the little 
guy may not make it back to see its family (Bambi, any­one?) I hear he has a hard time doing anything well on ice. 
XOXOXO, 
Concerned Citizens of Knott Hall 
P.S. We ain’t even mad; y u mad tho? 
Michael O’Brien 
sophomore Knott Hall Mar. 8 



Wednesday, March 9. 2011 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 10 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

HuskiesdefeatBlueDemonsin.rstroundoftournament 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Hard to believe Connecticut had gone six years since its last victory at the Big East tournament. 
Kemba Walker and the Huskies stopped that skid against an over-matched opponent. 
The star guard scored 26 points and UConn won a Big East tour­nament game for the first time since 2005, beating DePaul 97-71 on Tuesday in the opener of a conference showcase loaded with NCAA contenders. 
“We had a nice bounce-back game,” Huskies coach Jim Calhoun said. “We’re happy to get a win. It’s been a while.” 
Jeremy Lamb, playing on a sore knee, had 17 of his 19 points in the first half for the 21st-ranked Huskies (22-9), who got back on track after losing four of their final five regular-season games. No. 9 seed UConn advanced to play Wednesday against No. 22 Georgetown, the No. 8 seed at Madison Square Garden. 
UConn beat the Hoyas 78-70 at home on Feb. 16 in the only meeting between the teams this season. 
The Huskies had lost six straight Big East tournament games since beating Georgetown in the 2005 quarterfinals, a sur­prising streak of futility for a school that has won two national championships and six Big East tourney titles under Calhoun, its Hall of Fame coach. 

The slide included that classic, six-overtime loss in the 2009 quarterfinals to Syracuse, which handed the Huskies four of those six consecutive defeats. 
Alex Oriakhi, left out of the starting lineup following a recent slump, had 13 points and 19 rebounds for UConn, which held a 46-22 edge on the glass against the undersized Blue Demons. 
“I just think we look different when he’s rebounding, blocking shots and playing defense like that,” Calhoun said. “He’s been struggling and I keep telling him, ‘It’s simple, go get the basketball.’ It’s never that simple, but it gets in your head. And today he went and got the basketball — a lot.” 
Oriakhi tied a school record for rebounds in a Big East tourna­ment game. Travis Knight also grabbed 19 boards against Seton Hall in 1996. 
“I definitely wanted to make it up to my teammates and help Kemba out, and I just went after the basketball,” said Oriakhi, a 6­foot-9, 240-pound sophomore. 
The Big East is expected to set a record by sending at least 10 of its 16 members, including Connecticut, to the NCAA tourna­ment, expanded this year from 65 to 68 teams. The number could reach 11 if Marquette gets off the bubble and into the field. 
“I don’t think there’s much of a question the Big East should have 11 teams in,” DePaul coach Oliver Purnell said. “As I’ve observed college basketball the last 25 years, it’s the deepest league I’ve seen.” 
Lamb’s big first half helped the Huskies build a 45-28 lead at the break, but they got sloppy with the ball against DePaul’s full-court trap after halftime and fin­ished with a season-high 20 turnovers. 
The 16th-seeded Blue Demons (7-24) twice cut the deficit to seven midway through the second half, but Walker and his young teammates held off DePaul and won going away. 
Walker, a first-team all-Big East selection and a contender for national player of the year, scored 19 points in the second half and left to a warm hand with 2:26 remaining. He also had seven rebounds and five assists. 
“Our style of play is to get up and down. That’s what we do,” Walker said. 
Brandon Young scored 20 points to lead the Blue Demons, who lost their last six games fol­lowing their lone conference win of the season at Providence on Feb. 17. 
DePaul closed its first campaign under Purnell with 18 losses in 19 games against Big East opponents and heads back to Chicago after a brief postseason trip to Manhattan. 
“We’re building a foundation, obviously. Some of our young players did well for freshmen, but they’re hungry to be better. We need them to be better,” Purnell said. “We’ve got basic offensive and defensive systems in, so we’re not starting from scratch as we get the group ready for next year. Experience starts to be our friend instead of inexperience being our enemy.” 
The Blue Demons have won only two regular-season confer­ence games in the past three years, though they did pull off an upset of Cincinnati as a No. 16 seed in the first round of the 2009 Big East tournament. 

Jeremiah Kelly had 15 points on 5-of-10 shooting from 3-point range and Moses Morgan added 14 off the bench for DePaul, which played its final four games without leading scorer Cleveland Melvin. The 6-foot-8 freshman forward sprained his left thumb in a loss at St. John’s last month. 
Five players reached double fig­ures for Connecticut, which set a season high for points. Jamal Coombs-McDaniel and Shabazz Napier each scored 11. 
NBA 






NBAplanstoinstitutenewconcussionpolicy 
NHL and the NFL. In just the ful muscle, and if you’ve got cise caution.” their safety. 
Associated Press 

last four weeks, six NBA players anything off-kilter with that, it Hornets coach Monty Williams While the league has been 
have missed games because of can be problematic,” Dooling is dealing with Paul’s injury working on policy, including a 
MILWAUKEE — The NBA is concussions or concussion-like said recently. after two of his own as a player lengthy medical meeting during consulting with an independent symptoms. The NBA and the players’ while Clippers coach Vinny Del the All-Star break, Atlanta’s Al neurologist and may establish a Most recently, New Orleans union say they are tracking the Negro believes the league has to Horford believes Paul’s injury league-wide policy for handling point guard Chris Paul was number of head hits. Frank balance player safety with how will have a bigger effect on play-concussions by next season, The taken off the floor on a stretcher declined to name the neurolo-the game is played. ers’ views of concussions now. Associated Press has learned. on Sunday night after diving and gist involved with the league, “They’re trying to do different “That opened a lot of people’s 
NBA spokesman Tim Frank hitting his forehead on but said they’ve been working things with rules in terms of eyes,” he said. confirmed the discussions Cleveland guard Ramon on the issue extensively this sea-respect of the game and flagrant Horford’s teammate, Jamal Tuesday. Sessions’ right shoulder. He was son. fouls and things to protect Crawford, said players often 
“The NBA Team Physicians diagnosed with a concussion. Basketball doesn’t draw the guys,” Del Negro said. “There’s can’t think in their own best Society has been studying the “Concussions are something same level of concern as in a fine line there. The game is an interests. issue of concussion manage-that I don’t think we really real-other sports such as hockey and instinct game. You want to “As athletes, you want to be ment for several years and each ize how serious they are football because there aren’t as react. out there. Your competitive team follows its own treatment because they’re kind of rare in many violent head hits and “There’s going to be physical nature takes over. You don’t and return-to-play protocols,” our game. They happen more fewer concussions. contact, it’s part of it. There’s want to come out of the game. he said. “In addition, the league often in football, hockey, other “They seem to be really rare, going to be collisions in the air So sometimes you need some-is working with a consulting sports like that,” said Bucks but I did have one as a player,” and depending on how guys body who knows more about it neurologist concerning the pos-guard Keyon Dooling, a vice Pistons president Joe Dumars land and how vicious they are, to step in and say, ‘No, you’re sible adoption of a league-wide president of the NBA players’ said. “I can’t recall any of our you want to protect that.” not,’” Crawford said. “That protocol.” union executive committee guys over the years getting a Players on Tuesday night said doesn’t need to be (the player’s) 
The move would bring the along with Paul. concussion, but if it was to come they would embrace a league-call, because it can have long-NBA more in line with both the “Our brain is our most power-up, we would absolutely exer-wide initiative in the interest of term effects.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 

FOR RENT 
Future ARCHITECTS, ENGI­NEERS, TEACHERS, LAWYERS, BARDS, AMERICAN IDOLS and other studious Bohemians. Write your next soliloquy at one of our offcampus homes. 
Check out: www.IrishDwellings.comto find your home for summerand/or fall semester 2011-2012 andbeyond. $200 credit to first monthrent if lease signed before springbreak. —————————————— 


PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care abouthas been sexually assaulted, wecan help. 
For more information, 
visit Notre Dame's website: 
http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame hasmany resources in place to assistyou.If you or someone you loveneeds confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu. ——————————————— 
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL-Taxi to airport or Amtrak. Group rates aslow as $6ea. 574-360-6480 ——————————————— 

WANTED 
Earn Extra Money Students neededASAP. 
Earn up to $150 per day being aMystery Shopper. 
No Experience Required. 
Call 1-888-534-5008 ——————————————— National Apartment ManagementCompany has an immediate openingfor a full-time Leasing Consultant for an apartment community located in South Bend, IN. Experience in property man­agement is preferred and experiencein sales is a must! Candidate will be required to work some weekends.Must be highly energized, goal orient­ed, self motivated and personable.Individual must be assertive and have the ability to close the sale. Must haveexcellent written and oral communica­tion skills, be computer literate, haveexceptional customer service skills andthe ability to multi-task. For this position must be able to complete managerialtasks and decisions as directed. Fax résumés to (816) 817-7954. EOE ——————————————— 
Boy Meets World Quotes“I am Plays With Squirrels”-Eric Matthews ——————————————— Eric: So I said to myself, 'Kyle,'...Alan: Kyle?Eric: That's what I call myself. ——————————————— Cory: We're gonna have a child?Wait, we've only kissed. I mean, Iknew I was a good kisser, but wow! ——————————————— 
Eric: Guess who's got pictures ofCory running naked through thesprinkler?Cory: Eric, I was four.Eric: You were twelve. Cory: It was ... refreshing. ——————————————— 

Wednesday, March 9, 2011 The Observer SPORTS page 11 
NHL 

Contrascoreslateas SenatorsstunDevils 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — The New Jersey Devils have been win­ning so many close games in their frantic run toward the playoffs that sooner or later they were bound to come up on the short end of one of them. 
The surprise though was that it was the Ottawa Senators — the team with the NHL’s worst record entering action on Tuesday night — that got the best of the league’s hottest team. 
Erik Condra scored his sec­ond goal of the game with 
2:13 to play and the Senators defeated New Jersey 2-1, handing the Devils only their third regulation loss (20-3-2) in 25 games. 
“We have been fortunate in the last so many games, and we’ve pulled them off all the time,” Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur said. 
Fourteen of New Jersey’s last 16 games had been decid­ed by a goal, including 10 of the last 12 wins. 
“Not that we were due, but when you don’t put goals on the board, sometimes, a lucky bounce, like the last goal, it’s going to happen. It’s definitely disappointing,” Brodeur added. 
Coupled with eighth-place Buffalo’s loss to Pittsburgh, the Devils remain in 12th place in the Eastern Conference, eight points out of a playoff berth with 16 games to play. 

“That was a tough one, a tough one to take,” said Brian Rolston, who set up the Devils’ goal by Patrik Elias early in the third period, tying the game at 1. “They played well and we didn’t play good enough. We let it slip. But we’ll get back to it next game.” 
The Devils were their own worst enemies, failing to capi­talize on two two-man advan­tages in the second period while trailing 1-0. The first one lasted 16 seconds and the second 72 seconds. 
“We had our chances five­on-three,” Devils coach Jacques Lemaire said. “You have to be sharp and you have to be able to make the right play and get a goal there, especially when you get two and we didn’t. I think it’s the result, this loss.” 
Elias had a goal disallowed for an obvious high stick on the second two-man advan­tage. 
Condra’s fourth career goal was set up by Jason Spezza, who got the puck into the Devils’ zone following a turnover and then stalked back and forth near the blue line waiting for a teammate to do something. 
It turned out to be Condra. He came off the bench and skated hard down the middle of the ice. Spezza sent a pass toward the goal that deflected off Devils’ defenseman Andy Greene and went to the rook­ie, who deflected it past Brodeur, who had 19 saves. 
NBA 



76ers continue win streak 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Quietly, the Philadelphia 76ers have gone on a tear. 
Andre Iguodala, coming off back-to-back triple-doubles, finished with 16 points and 10 assists to help Philadelphia beat the Indiana Pacers 110­100 Tuesday night. Thaddeus Young scored 18 points, Jrue Holiday scored 16 and Jodie Meeks added 15 for the 76ers, who have won seven of eight. 

“We’re just starting to find ourselves,” Iguodala said. “Guys are starting to get com­fortable. I know where Elton’s going to be, I know where Jodie’s going to be, and I know where I’m going to be. We’re all just feeling each other out. It’s coming together.” 
Iguodala also shut down Indiana’s leading scorer. Danny Granger entered the game averaging 21 points, but he finished with 11 on 4 for 11 shooting. 
Iguodala has averaged 14.8 points, 8.4 assists and 7.9 rebounds the past eight games. 
“I don’t know what player out there is going to bring the defense he brings, the unselfishness he brings, and the ability to score that he brings.” Philadelphia forward Elton Brand said. “He can see the court. If he’s not scoring the ball, he’s seeing other guys, and he’s putting us in easy positions to knock the shots down.” 
Philadelphia shot 51 percent and forced Indiana into 20 turnovers. All five 76ers starters scored at least 12 points, and seven players scored in double figures. 
Tyler Hansbrough led Indiana with 26 points, one short of his career high. He shot made 11 of 14 shots as a reserve. 
“Hansbrough was unbeliev­able,” Philadelphia coach Doug Collins said. “That guy is a really, really good player. He’s really good.” 
Roy Hibbert scored 13 points, and rookie Paul George had a season-high 10 rebounds for Indiana. 
The Pacers started off 7-1 under interim coach Frank Vogel, but now have lost four straight and six of seven. 
“Our guys have to do better,” Vogel said. “They understand it, I understand it. We’re not getting it done defensively and not moving the ball enough.” 
Indiana trailed by 21 points in the second half, but a pair of free throws by Hansbrough cut Philadelphia’s lead to 86­76 early in the fourth quarter. 
The 76ers extended their lead to 96-80 on a layup by Holiday, but Indiana rallied, and a jumper by Hansbrough cut Philadelphia’s lead to 100­91 with 2:42 left. 
The Pacers trailed 100-93 and had the ball. Indiana’s 
A.J. Price missed a 3-pointer, but Hibbert rebounded. He looked for a teammate, but threw the ball right to Holiday, and Meeks hit a 3-pointer at the other end to push the lead back to 10 points. 
“It was that kind of night,” George said. “It seemed like they were hitting about every­thing. Offensively, we just did-n’t have it going.” 
The 76ers jumped out to a 22-9 lead in the first quarter, and shot 59 percent in the first half to lead 65-53 at the break. Brand said the team was aware that Indiana was five games behind them in the Eastern Conference playoff race. 
“We didn’t want to be lack­adaisical,” he said. “We want­ed to make this game more important to us than to them, and we came out and did that.” 
The Pacers sabotaged their efforts to come back early in the second half with turnovers. Philadelphia’s Spencer Hawes hit back-to­back baskets, then Holiday dunked an alley-oop pass from Iguodala to give the 76ers a 77-58 lead and force the Pacers to call a timeout. Indiana rallied late in the quarter and trailed 84-70 at the end of the period, but Philadelphia finished strong in the final minutes. 
“We’re riding high right now,” Brand said. “We’re playing very well. Against the good teams, we’re playing well, even if we lose. We feel like we can beat just about any team.” 
Notes: Indiana F Jeff Foster sat out with a sore back. ... Indiana G Dahntay Jones was called for a flagrant 1 foul in the second quarter when he made contact with Evan Turner as Turner drove to the hoop. ... Philadelphia shot 60 percent in the first quarter. ... Granger has shot 34 percent from the field during Indiana’s losing streak. 

page 12 The Observer SPORTS Wednesday, March 9, 2011 
NBA 



Lovetiesrecordwith51consecutivedouble-doubles 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — The down­trodden Timberwolves faithful rose to their feet and roared like they rarely have done all season, saluting Kevin Love for being one of the few rea­sons to keep coming to Target Center during another long, miserable basketball winter in Minnesota. 
Love raised his hand and thanked the crowd, who deliv­ered a standing ovation Monday night when he record­ed his 51st consecutive dou­ble-double, which ties him with Moses Malone for the longest such streak since the NBA and ABA merged in 1976. 
Through another season filled with losing — the Timberwolves have lost a Western Conference-worst 50 games this season — watching Love try to keep his historic streak going has become the primary draw for this strug­gling franchise. 

One more double-double against Indiana on Wednesday night and he will surpass Malone, who had 51 over two seasons in 1978-79. 
“It’s a heck of an accom­plishment to be that consistent and put up the kind of num­bers he’s been putting up,” Timberwolves coach Kurt Rambis said Wednesday. “It’s very, very difficult to do that kind of thing so it’s nice to be rewarded with that standing ovation.” 
Love’s streak started on Nov. 22 against Oklahoma City and has endured despite oppo­nents doing everything in their power to keep him in check. He’s had guards crash­ing the boards behind him, centers trying to knock a potential rebound out of bounds rather than let him get it and forwards take it to him on the defensive end to try and wear him down. 
“Amazing. Amazing. Amazing,” Dallas All-Star Dirk Nowitzki said after watching Love put up 23 points and 17 rebounds in the Mavericks’ 108-105 victory on Monday. “Fifty-one in a row is unbe­lievable. He just has a great knack for the ball. He’s got great hands. He’s got a low center of gravity. He’s a beast out there. He’s going to be fun to watch for a long time.” 
There have been some close calls — 12 points and 12 rebounds at Dallas on Dec. 1, 12 points and 10 boards at the Clippers on Dec. 20 and a 10­point, 10-rebound squeaker against Memphis on Feb. 2. 
But for the most part, Love has been posting no-doubters all season long. He had 37 points and 23 rebounds against Golden State on Feb. 27, 31 and 21 against the Thunder on Jan. 26 and 43 and 17 at Denver on Dec. 18. 
He has 11 games with at least 20 points and 20 rebounds, including a 31­point, 31-rebound game against the Knicks that came before the streak started. 
“It’s a joke he’s doing it so easy,” Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said. “Unless he gets hurt I don’t see anyone stop­ping it anytime soon.” 
Love missed practice on Tuesday to get an MRI on his left knee after falling and banging it on the floor against the Mavericks. The tests showed just a bruise and the team listed him as day-to-day. 
In other words, the Pacers shouldn’t get their hopes up. 
“I’d be jumping for joy if we were winning and everybody was playing great including myself,” Love said after the loss to the Mavericks dropped the Wolves to 15-50 this sea­son. “I’m just going out there and playing hard and it is just kind of happening for me. But it is kind of an afterthought because we aren’t winning.” 
The Timberwolves have won just 11 times during Love’s incredible streak, and Lakers coach Phil Jackson tweaked the young All-Star before a game last week. 
“He’s a guy that really goes after rebounds, gets all the missed free throws and the ones at the end of quarters,” Jackson said with plenty of sarcasm. “He gets a lot of numbers. It’s quite signifi­cant.” 
Yet most coaches in the NBA speak in glowing references about Love, whose production is based largely on effort, guile and instincts and little on athletic ability. 
“You just don’t see that today and that’s what’s remarkable about it and is so gratifying to me; that there is a guy that is kind of old school,” Charlotte coach Paul Silas said. “Rebounding is important. Everybody today is about scoring and that kind of thing. But rebounding is something unusual.” 
Love’s doing them both, averaging 20.9 points and 
15.8 rebounds per game. 
“You’re not going to stop his streak,” Kobe Bryant said. “The ball just doesn’t bounce his way for 48 minutes, that will stop it. But if the ball’s somewhere around him, he’s going to get it.” 
If he does it again on Wednesday night, perhaps there will be another standing ovation, another impressive reception, another wave to the crowd that has embraced him like no other Timberwolves player since Kevin Garnett. 
Love just wishes those cheers were coming for wins, not numbers. 
“It felt great to have the crowd on their feet, such a great ovation,” Love said. “It’s one of those moments where you pinch yourself to see if it’s real. 
“The Target Center, all the fans, the Twin Cities, all of Minnesota have been great all year. They’ve had our backs. I can’t imagine what it’s going to be like when we really start winning and turn that corner.” 
MLB 


DontrelleWillispitchestwoperfectinningsasRedswin 
Willis won 22 games for see that. much.” struck out twice as the DH in 
Associated Press 

the Florida Marlins in 2005, “He’s a guy who can get Reds starter Travis Wood his spring training debut. ... 
SURPRISE, Ariz. — but has won only three out righties and lefties out. gave up two runs and five Reds RHP Edinson Volquez, Dontrelle Willis continues to games in the majors the past He’s been a guy who has hits in three innings, while who has had visa problems, make a case for a spot in the three years. He was with been in championship ball striking out two and walking has been scratched from a Cincinnati Reds’ bullpen. Detroit and Arizona in 2010 games. He’s a guy that two. Wednesday start against San 
Willis pitched two perfect and signed a minor league brings energy and life on the “My pitches were working Diego. ... The Royals reas­innings, striking out three, contract in December with field and off the field as pretty well,” Wood said. signed four non-roster play-and Drew Stubbs hit a three-the Reds. well.” “Butler just got the head of ers to minor league camp: run homer and the Reds The Royals could not get Royals right-hander Kyle the bat on the ball. Having RHPs Patrick Keating and defeated the Kansas City the ball out of the infield in Davies pitched three shutout some success last year, Gaby Hernandez, 2B Johnny Royals 5-2 Tuesday. Willis’ two innings. Willis innings. He got out of a first-knocks out some of the Giavotella and C Ryan Eigsti. 
Willis, the 2003 National fielded two comebackers and inning jam after giving up nerves. I probably put a lot The Royals have 59 players League rookie of the year, covered first on an Irving singles to Stubbs and Edgar of pressure on my self last in camp. ... SS Alcides has made only three relief Falu bunt. Renteria and both advanced year.” Escobar, who did not play appearances in 192 games in “He made some excellent on a wild pitch. Notes: Wilson Betemit, who the past two days after suf­the majors. plays,” Baker said. “Man, he “From there on I had to had been held out of the first fering an infection on his 
The Reds have openings beat that runner to first bear down,” Davies said. “I 10 Royals games with an right arm from a bug bite, for left-handed relievers and base. He’s an athlete. I did-thought I made some pretty elbow injury lingering from returned to the Royals lineup Willis hopes to get one of the n’t think he had a chance on good pitches to get out of it.” winter ball, went 0 for 4 and and went 2 for 2. spots. that bunt.” Davies recovered by strik-
He has allowed two hits in Baker was equally ing out Joey Votto and Scott five scoreless innings in impressed with Willis’ pitch-Rolen and retiring Jay Bruce three spring training out-ing. on a fly to center. ings. “He was throwing his The Royals took a 2-0 lead 
In his past two outings, he breaking ball for strikes at in the third when Billy has been perfect in four will,” Baker said. “When you Butler hit a two-run homer. innings against the Royals do that, you’re going to be Royals rookie left-hander and Seattle Mariners. tough especially on left-han-Danny Duffy walked Chris 
“We keep our fingers ders. His command is getting Valaika and Ryan Hanigan in crossed that he keeps per-better and better, better the fourth before giving up a forming the way he’s per-than I can remember it. It’s home run to Drew Stubbs. forming and enjoying it real good. His breaking ball “I need to stop nibbling while he’s doing it,” Giants is better, I can tell you that. and pitch with conviction,” manager Dusty Baker said. That’s a good sign when you Duffy said. “I’m nibbling too 

Wednesday, March 9, 2011 The Observer SPORTS page 13 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Doubles teams lead Notre Dame to victory 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Solid play from the doubles teams led the No. 24 Irish to defeat the No. 4 Illini at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Tuesday. 
The Irish opened the match strong with wins at both No. 2 and No. 3 doubles. 
Irish senior Stephen Havens and junior Casey Watt took down Illinois sen­ior Connor Roth and sopho­more Stephen Hoh 8-2 at No. 2 doubles. Irish senior Tyler Davis and freshman Greg Andrews defeated sophomore Bruno Abdelnour and red-shirt freshman Brian Alden by the same score at No. 3 doubles. 
Irish junior Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Spencer Talmadge did not finish their match at No. 1 since the dou­bles point was already decid­ed, but were leading seniors Abe Souza and Johnny Hamui 5-4 when play stopped. 
“By beginning singles play with a 1-0 lead it means that if we split the singles we will win. This takes a lot of pres­sure off our guys to start sin­gles,” Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. 

Sophomore Blas Moros came out ahead of Roth 6-0, 6-1 at No. 6 singles to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
Irish senior Dan Stahl defeated No. 65 Souza 6-4, 6­1 at No. 3 singles. 
Illini junior Roy Kalmanovich put Illinois on the board when he defeated No. 124 Havens 6-4, 6-1 at No. 2 singles. 
Hoh got Illinois’ second point by defeating Andrews at No. 4 singles in three sets, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4. 
Fitzgerald had a tough fight at No. 5 singles, win­ning the first set in a tiebreak 7-6, then dropping the second set 6-3. He rebounded to win the third 6­1, earning the point for Notre Dame. 
No. 64 Watt also pulled out a three-set win at No. 1 over No. 62 Hamui. He won the first set in a tiebreaker 7-6, then dropped the second 6-4, before coming back to win the third 6-2. 
“Winning at the top posi­tions can be very difficult for anyone,” Bayliss said. “Match after match you are going to face the other teams' best players. Given the strength of our schedule that means our guys are going to play many 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irishreturnfrombreak 
totakeon 
By MATT DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The last time the No. 13 Irish took the field, it was Feb. 27 and therewasstillsnowontheground. Thursday, a fresh Notre Dame squad will take on regional rival Ohio State in their first game in ninedays. 
“It was great to have a break and focus on things that needed improvement,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “We also had a couple of off days to give some players with injuries some time to recov­er.” 
In their last game, postponed a day because of weather, Notre Dame pulled out a come-from­behind victory over Duquesne, 12­10 in Pittsburgh. Six Irish players scored in the win, led by senior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney’s three goalsandthreeassists. 
During the layoff, both Blaney and senior defender Jackie Doherty were named to the watch list for the Tewaaraton Trophy, college lacrosse’s premier individ­ual award. Both preseason All-Big East selections, the pair has been instrumental in helping the Irish to a2-2start.Blaneyissecondonthe teaminassistswhileDohertyleads the Irish in draw controls and turnoverscaused. 
The Buckeyes (3-3) defeated Canisius in their last game by dominating the Griffins, 23-7. Ohio State, a 1-2 road team, is led by junior midfielder Alayna Markwordt’s team-high 19 goals and 10 assists. The Buckeye defense hasbeeninstrumental this season, allowing nearly 16 goals per game in losses and five goals 

OhioState 
pergameinwins. 

“We need to handle their high defensive pressure and shut down Markwordt,” Coyne said. “I just want the girls to execute the game plan.” 
This game will mark the 16th meeting between the Irish and the regional rival Buckeyes, with NotreDameholdinga9-6edge. 
“We’re both huge athletic schools and recently, we’ve been very successful,” Coyne said. “They always bring their best game and it’s nice to face a quality opponent.” 
Sophomore midfielder Jenny Granger leads the Irish with 10 goals while junior attack Maggie Tamasitis has tallied a team-high 10 assists. They share the team lead in points with 14 apiece. Sophomore goalkeeper Ellie Hilling has had a solid season so far, allowing fewer than 11 goals a game while saving 44 percent of theshotsshehasfaced. 
After playing three road games and one home game in the Loftus Center, the Irish were scheduled to finally play in Arlotta Stadium, the home to both the men’s and women’s lacrosse teams. Impending inclement weather, however, has pushed the game indoorsintotheLoftusCenter. 
“It’s disappointing but we still hope people show up,” Coyne said. “We play better with a good crowd and hope they can be loud and rowdy.” 
The showdown with the Buckeyes is slated for a 4 p.m. start on Thursday in the Loftus SportsCenter. 
Contact Matt DeFranks mdefranks@nd.edu 


of the best college players in Graves of Northwestern on Team, before hitting the road the country.” Sunday. again to face Kentucky. 
This was Watt’s second The Irish will travel to straight No. 1 singles win Boca Raton, Fla. to play at Contact Katelyn Grabarek at after he defeated Joshua the U.S. National Junior kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
and Dolson each scored four points before Moore capped off 
McGraw 
an11-0runwitha3-pointerfrom 
continued from page 16 the corner. While the Irish threat­ened the Huskies later in the half, 
double-team her, but we just did-n’t get down there in time and she was a little too much for us in thepost.” 
Moore, who was named the tournament’s most outstanding player after the game, finished with 22 points on 9-of-20 shoot­ing while playing all 40 minutes for Huskies coach Geno Auriemma. 
“She[Moore]hitsomerealdag­gers on us in the second half,” McGraw said of the senior’s 12­pointsecondhalfperformance. 
Notre Dame trailed by one heading into the half and Auriemma said it was the Huskies who felt fortunate to see thescoreat32-31. 
“To go up one after the way we played in the first half, I was shocked,” Auriemma said. “Shocked.” 
After an early Huskies’ run to start the second half, the Irish cut the Connecticut lead back to one, but the back-to-back national champions responded with a stretchoftheirown. 
Freshman guard Bria Hartley theywereneverabletoovercome the12-pointdeficit. 
Irish sophomore guard Skylar Diggins said the loss to Connecticut was a difficult way for Notre Dame to end the Big Eastseason. 
“Obviously losing period frus­trates us because of how hard we work to get to this level,” Diggins saidafterscoring14pointsina5­of-16 shooting effort. “We work very hard. I think this team had the mindset that we were going to win it. I think we didn’t play not to lose, we played to win tonightandthat’sthedifference.” 
The Irish stormed out of the gate with a four-point lead to start the game, led by senior for­ward Becca Bruszewski. Bruszewski, a game-time deci­sion after being listed as doubtful with a rib injury following Notre Dame’s 71-67 semifinals victory over DePaul, fought through the pain and made an impact early, scoring six of Notre Dame’s first eight points. After picking up two personal fouls quickly in the first-half though, Bruszewski sat out Abromaitis was honored for the second consecutive year as the Big East Scholar Athlete of the Year, becom­ing the third player in league history to win the award in back-to-back cam­paigns. Abromaitis was recently named to his second consecutive first-team Academic All-America hon­ors; he was also named to the all-conference third team over the weekend. 
Hansbrough, Brey, and Abromaitis will return to action Thursday night in the Big East tournament against the winner of tonight’s clash between Cincinnati and South Florida. 

Awards 
continued from page 16 
last four outings. He is the fourth Irish player to take home the award, preceded by Pat Garrity, Troy Murphy (who won the award twice) and Luke Harangody. 
Irish coach Mike Brey was selected as Big East Coach of the Year by his conference peers on the after a season that has vaulted him into the discussion for national Coach of the Year. After los­ing three-time All-American Luke Harangody and four-year starting point guard Tory Jackson to graduation after the 2009-2010 cam­paign, Brey’s squad far exceeded expectations by recording a 25-5 season. Brey also earned the award in 2007 and 2008 and is only the third active coach to have received the award multiple times, joining Syracuse’s Jim Boeheim and Connecticut’s Jim Calhoun in that category. 
The selections mark the third time the Irish have taken home both the confer­ence Player and Coach of the Year awards; Notre Dame most recently did so in 2008 with Harangody and Brey. 
Senior forward Tim the final five minutes leading to halftime. 
Just as she did against DePaul, Irish freshman forward Natalie Achonwaplayeda critical role for Notre Dame. Achonwa carried her solid semifinals performance into the contest against the Huskies, scoring eight points on 4-of-4shootingand grabbing four reboundsin14first-halfminutes. 
“Ithoughtshehadagreattour­nament,” McGraw said of her freshman forward. “I thought she could’ve been on the all-tourna­ment team because she just did so many great things for us off the bench. You could see she wasn’t intimidated. Overall I was really pleased with the way she played.” 
Achonwa finished the game with a double-double, recording 12pointsand10rebounds. 
Diggins said Notre Dame’s focusisnowontheNCAAtourna­ment. 
“We know this ends our second season,” she said. “We’re starting the tournament and we’ll see where we’re at on Monday. We can’t do anything but learn from itandmoveon.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer SPORTS Wednesday, March 9, 2011 
MEN’S GOLF 

No.26NotreDamekicks offseasonagainstYale 

MATT.SAAD/The ObserverJunior Max Scodro tees off during the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic Sept. 27. 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After a fun and competi­tive weekend at the Alumni Matches in Scottsdale, Ariz., the Irish will open their intercollegiate spring sea­son in Greensboro, Ga., Monday on the Great Waters Course at Reynolds Plantation against Yale University. The No. 26 Irish head south into the matchup with the unranked Bulldogs with high expectations. 
“Yale should be a good test for us,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “We’ve recruited against them a fair amount the last few years, and with us being ranked, they’ll be extra motivated to add something to their season. It will be good to get our feet on the ground in Georgia.” 
Though the match is early in the season and not in conference play, it will be important for another rea­son. Notre Dame squad stays in Georgia next week for the Schenkel E-Z-GO Invitational, which begins March19 at Forest Heights Country Club in Statesboro. The 15-team meet will give the Irish an opportunity to compete against some of the top out-of-conference teams in the country. 
“I would consider Schenkel to be in the top five top best collegiate tour­naments this year,” Kubinski said. “It will fea­ture three top ten teams in LSU, Auburn and Florida. It’s a great field.” 

The Irish are scrambling to get chances to get on the course in the hopes of com­peting against teams from the SEC and ACC, who have been practicing outside all year. 
Even with the limited practice, Kubinksi said he felt the Irish are a team to look out for. The Irish top five of junior Tom Usher, sophomore Paul McNamara, junior Max Scodro, fresh­man Niall Platt and junior Chris Walker will have to put in legwork for the Irish to excel against the best teams in the country. 
“This tournament will be a great litmus test for where our season is at this point,” Kubinski said. “This is the real deal.” 
Notre Dame has played only one other tournament this spring, going 2-1 at TPC Match Play in Tampa, Fla., Feb. 11-12, but the schedule ramps up on Monday. The Irish will be in action every weekend through the middle of April. 
The Notre Dame vs. Yale Challenge Cup begins March 14 in Statesboro, Ga. 
Contact Conor Kelly ckelly17@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 
Bellesanticipatespringseason 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After practicing their fun­damentals on indoor turf all winter long, the Belles are eager to begin the sea­son outdoors as they head into the George Fox Invitational. 
Looking forward to her final spring season with the Belles, senior co-captain Mary Kate Boyce empha­sized the importance of the roles of every team mem­ber in bringing success to the program. 
“Each member of our team needs to step up. It is a combined effort that needs to be put in day-in and day-out,” Boyce said. “Whether it is challenging teammates to perform bet­ter or comforting them after a tough round or tough week, we each have a duty to help our entire team improve every day, 
both  on the  course  and  
off.”  
Belles  coach  Mark  

Piane 
continued from page 16 
“There are 300 teams in the country, and only nine are automatic qualifiers, so it’s a very impressive accomplishment.” 
That time was good for the ninth-best seed time in the NCAA entry, but up against the best teams in the country, the Irish will have to run even faster if they want to bring home a national title. 
“If they want to win a national championship, they’ve got to win the race, and it won’t be easy,” Piane Hamilton said he expects the Belles’ two senior cap­tains to take the initiative on and off the course and lead their teammates by example. 
“We have a relatively young team, so I’m looking for them to lead the younger players and show them the way we go about things in the spring and the NCAA Championship,” he said. “It’ll be good on the course as far as seeing what their scores are and off the course as far as their demeanor and prac­tice habits.” 
George Fox University and the College of Saint Benedict will also be com­peting at the Invitational. Hamilton said he expects the competition in Phoenix, Ariz., to be a good test for this young Belles squad. 
“The team shot a 310 on their first day, and that’s very good. That’s lower than we’ve shot all fall,” he said. “They’re a good team, and I expect the competi­tion to be really high.” 
said. “Oregon is terrific, Arizona’s great, and they’re going to be tough to beat. John’s going to have go out in 2:53.5. Pat will need another 48 [seconds]. Jack will need to run a 1:47.8, and we’ll need another sub-four mile out of Jeremy.” 
While that may be a tall task, Coach Piane believes that the experience of his older runners will be apparent, and that the younger runners will learn on the fly. 
“Jeremy’s run in a bunch of big meets, and Jack ran at nationals last year, so they should help us there. For John Shawel and Pat 
continue to talk.” Irving said the team is con-
Denver 
fident in their ability to win games — as long as they 
continued from page 16 
realize the games are not goals. We need to fix up the over until the final buzzer areas that we were kind of sounds. loose on,” Ridgway said. “I think we’re a very confi­“When we’re playing defense, dent team this year,” he said. we communicate our roles. “We learned from last year 
We  have  a  that we don’t win  
number  of  a  game in the  
words we have  “We’ve been one of  first quarter, and  
to use, and if that vernacu­lar breaks  the best teams in the country beacuse  it takes four quarters and sometimes even  
down, then there’s a little bit of confu-sion of the  of communication; everyone buys into it.”  overtime to win a game.” The Pioneers have a number of  
roles  we’re  Canadian players  
supposed to be playing at that certain point.” Senior long-stick midfield- Andrew Irving Irish captain  on their roster, which con-tributes to a sig­nificantly differ­ent playing style  

er and co-captain Andrew than what Notre Dame is Irving said there is always used to facing. room for improving the “They’re usually more one­team’s communication. handed, and they’re comfort­
“We’ve been one of the best able doing things with their teams in the country because backs to the net that other of communication; everyone players aren’t comfortable buys into it, and everyone doing,” Ridgway said. knows our signs and our The offense has had many calls,” he said. “It’s definitely scoring opportunities, but something to work on. You Irving said the Irish look to can never have too much improve the location of their communication. We have to shots on goal in Denver. 
The Belles worked hard all winter on improving their short game, an area that may determine their success. 
“We’ve been chipping and putting, and that’s really one of our main focuses,” Hamilton said. “We want to have our short game at a high level right away. It takes a lot of time to work on, but you still have to play well right away.” 
Boyce said she and fellow senior and co-captain Rosie O’Connor have high hopes for their last season with the Belles. 
“I am pretty excited for our spring season,” Boyce said. “[Rosie and I] would love nothing more than to win the whole thing in May. We have a really talented team this year and we know it's possible.” 
The Belles begin compet­ing in the George Fox Invitational on Friday, March 18. 
Contact Megan Golden mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
Feeney, this will definitely be great for them. You can only learn from experi­ences like this,” he said. 
While the DMR will be the only Notre Dame team to run this weekend, they were not the only qualifier for the Irish. Rae also qual­ified for the men’s mile run, but he will forgo that race to focus on anchoring the relay. 
“We didn’t enter Jeremy in the mile, we’re just going to run the guys fresh,” Piane said. “That will give us the best chance to succeed.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
“Our offense has gotten a lot of good looks at the cage in the first three games,” Irving said. “It’s a question of really bearing down and shooting at the right place and putting the ball in the net. We took a lot of shots, and we missed the cage, and that’s the final piece.” 
Despite recording victories against three talented oppo­nents, Ridgway said the Irish were not resting on their undefeated record. He said the team has high hopes for something greater than last season, and they are not fin­ished fighting for their goal. 
“I think everyone’s pretty happy being 3-0, especially because of the win this week­end without [senior midfield­er] Zach [Brenneman]. It shows guys can step up and score,” Ridgway said. “We can’t get complacent; we were here last year, and we lost. Everyone has the same goal, and that is to win. It’s just a matter of staying hun­gry throughout the whole season because it’s a long season.” 
The Irish take the field in Denver at 7 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday, March 9, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 

JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

LAURA McGINN 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 





