
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Senior fund honors former classmate 
Class of 2012 chooses to dedicate money to Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Based on overwhelming support from the senior class, the Class of 2012 Legacy Fund decided to dedicate the money it raises to the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund, co-chairs of the Senior Legacy Fund Sylvia Banda and Tommy Montalbano said. 
Declan Sullivan, a member of the Class of 2012, died last October after a video tower from which he was filming football practice fell. He was double-majoring in market­ing and Film, Television and Theatre, and was a videogra­pher for the football team. 
The Memorial Fund will sponsor a scholarship for a student with demonstrated financial need whose inter­ests align with Sullivan’s, Montalbano said. 
“It is designed for students who are not only in financial need, but who have demon­strated the traits that made Declan original, whether [it be] an interest in filmmak­ing, service to under-privi­leged youth, creative writing or other passions,” he said. 


Traditionally, the Legacy Fund committee has solicited suggestions for what to do with the fund from students, 



Student government to hold trial merger 


By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The proposed merger between the Council of Representatives (COR) and Student Senate will be put to the test today when mem­bers of COR will sit in on Senate’s meeting, where senators will de­bate the reform. 
The measure is intended to make the Student Union more ef­ficient and representative of the entire student body, student body president Pat McCormick said. 
“This year our emphasis is to put the Student Union under construction to make it more effective in its advocacy of the student body,” McCormick said. “It’s really the first pillar of this administration, which is to unite the Student Union and to expand inclusion in the advocacy of stu­dent government.” 
Oversight chair Ben Noe said the new structure of the group will be more in line with student government’s intended purpose as written in its constitution. 


see SENATE/page 5 
resulting in a narrowed-down list for students to vote on. 
This year, however, the high volume of initial responses suggesting the Memorial Fund negated the need for a follow-up survey, Banda said. 
“That was the runaway winner, so as a committee we decided that this was going to be the [Memorial] Fund,” she said. “We thought this was a unique year so we decided to just announce it.” 

The Legacy fund will begin 


see LEGACY/page 4 


Professor named as consultant 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Law professor Richard Gar­nett, recently named a consul­tant to the United States Council of Catholic Bishops Ad Hoc Com­mittee for Religious Liberty, said the appoint­ment is an opportunity to help pro­tect religious freedom in America. 
“I am deeply com­mitted, as a citizen and as a scholar, to the im­portance — indeed, the central­ity — of religious freedom,” he said. “The opportunity to assist the Catholic bishops of the Unit-

see GARNETT/page 4 




Students find companions in pets 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 

When alumni laud the friendships forged at Notre Dame, they usually are refer­ring to their classmates. Some students, however, find extra companionship in dorm or house pets. 
Senior Matt Jensen said his Betta Fish, Goldie, has been not only a companion since freshman year, but an ongoing lesson in responsibility. 
“Having a pet during my time at Notre Dame has been a fantastic and memorable ex­perience,” he said. “Not only is she more loyal than my room­mates, but her daily care stim­ulates my skills of discipline and careful responsibility dur­ing these formative years of my life.” 
While du Lac restricts stu­dents to “non-carnivorous fish in an aquarium less than 30 gallons,” some off-campus stu­dents use their newfound free­dom to house a four-legged pet. 
Senior Mike Rose said the demands of his dog, Sammy, have forced him to establish a caretaking routine with his housemates. 
“I live at a house with my friends on the soccer team and a black lab named Sammy,” Rose said. “He has a pretty set schedule, which he reminds us of constantly, but between housemates, we are all able to split most of the duties.” 

While busy students’ sched­ules may not cater to dog ownership, Rose said friends and family have been willing to share the responsibilities when necessary. 
“We are able to have people take care of Sammy if we are out of town for a team trip or for any other reason, because pretty much anyone that meets him loves him,” he said. 

Senior Alyssa Sappenfield said the companionship of her cat Mango outweighs the add­ed responsibility and expense. 
“During breaks, I always have to think about who can look after her,” she said. “I take care of everything concerning 


see PETS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College celebrates with Madrigal dinner page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u James Loewen talk page 8 u Bryan Rust leads hockey team page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, November 30, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PART ABOUT THE VICTORIA’S SECRET FASHION SHOW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports John Cameron Kelsey Manning Mel Flanagan Andrew Gastelum Jillian Barwick Mike Monaco Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 39 LOW 33 



Jake Mueller  Nick Conrad  Austin Bruen  Jacob Stanton  Jack Trunzo  Alex Schoemann  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Morrissey  Morrissey  Morrissey  Alumni  Keough  Keough  
“The music.”  “... Her.”  “The girls’  “We didn’t have  “Watching it  “We don’t have  
personalities.”  TV on the farm I  with my AR.”  that in Canada.”  
grew up on ...”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Man wins $1 million lottery for second time in 3 years 
ATLANTA, GA. — A man in Atlanta has hauled in a million-dollar lottery pay­day for the second time in just three years. 
Delma Kinney, 50, re­cently won a $1 million dol­lar prize playing the instant game Super Millions. In 2008, Kinney also won $1 million playing another in­stant game. 
Kinney is a single father of three, who set aside part of his original lottery win­nings to establish a college education fund for his chil­dren. 
Kinney says he purchased the winning lottery ticket when he headed out to grab some over-the-counter med­ications to help him cope with a head cold. 

“I was just out and stopped for cold medicine,” Mr Kinney told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “I sat in the car with the ticket, and when I saw the match­ing numbers, I knew,” he explained. 
The odds of Kinney win­ning the lottery were one in 5,040,000 but there are no exact calculations of the odds for winning a million dollar lottery twice. 
Man accidentally donates life savings hidden in suit 
MOLINE, IL., — There’s a cynical old saying that “no good deed goes un­punished.” That adage has proved true for an elderly Illinois man who acciden­tally gave away his entire life savings when making a clothing donation. 
The 80-year-old man, who didn’t trust banks, had kept his life savings of $13,000 sewn inside the lining of one of his suits. He is currently appealing for the money’s return so that he can care for his wife, who has Stage 4 cancer. 
“We’re hoping it’s still there and we can find it for them,” Engelbert said, “It’s their life savings. It’s impor­tant.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
There will be a workshop titled, “Meaningful Teach­ing Experiences: Partnering with the Community” today from 3:30 to 4:45 p.m. in Geddes Hall. The workshop focuses on teaching-based collaborations between Notre Dame students, faculty and staff, and the local com­munity. 
At 4:30 p.m. today there will be a lecture by Joseph 
H.H. Weiler, European Union Jean Monnet Chaired Pro­fessor at NYU School of Law titled, “Freedom from Re­ligion.” The lecure will be held in the Eck Hall of Law in Room 1130. 
The Summer Service Learning Program will be holding an information ses­sion today from 5 to 6 p.m. about the eight-week service-learning course. The session will be held in the Coffee House in Geddes Hall. 
James Loewen, author of the national bestseller, “Lies My Teacher Told Me: Every­thing Your High School His­tory Textbook Got Wrong,” will be speaking today at 
6:30 p.m. in Room 101 in DeBartolo Hall. This talk is part of the Student Union Board’s Ideas and Issues se­ries. 
There will be a lecture today at 7 p.m. titled, “The Household of Divinity: Mary and the Season of Advent,” sponsered by Professor Tim­othy P. O’Malley in the An­drews Auditorium of Geddes Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 










HIGH 41 LOW 30 
HIGH 35 LOW 23 

HIGH 38 LOW 34 
HIGH 40 LOW 27 

Wednesday, November 30, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 



Group considers restructuring to improve transparency 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association discussed the possibility of restructuring at its Tuesday meeting. 
Student body president Nicole Gans said she was looking to other school’s student govern­ments for reform options. 
“We have been doing a lot of research on how other schools student governments function,” she said. 
Student body vice president Jacqualyn Zupancic said fluc­tuations in the organizations structure in recent years have been problematic. A more de­liberate structure could help reduce confusion and more ef­fectively engage the student body. 
“There has been so much change over the last couple of years. We need to have some­thing stable, a structure that just flows,” she said. “[We need] something that, going forward, makes sense. We can get so many more people involved.” 
Gans solicited ideas on how the organization can be made more effective and efficient with more clearly articulated roles. 
“This is a drawing board so changes can be made along the way,” she said. 
Chief of staff Emily Skirtich said the efforts required of the current administration will pay off for future Saint Mary’s stu­dent leaders. 
“This is a stepping stone,” she said. “Making this restructur­ing is difficult in our positions now, but it’s really getting a new generation of Saint Mary’s students involved.” 
College Vice President of Stu­dent Affairs Karen Johnson praised the group’s effort at ap­proving accessibility and trans­parency within student govern­ment. 
“This opens up transparency and gets more people the op­portunity to be involved,” she said. “You have really thought outside the box. It’s not just about you, but also student gov­ernment going forward.” 
Zupancic said the group would begin detailing the changes and drafting a revised constitution in January. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 




College celebrates season with Madrigal dinner 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Music Depart­ment will usher in the Christ­mas season this weekend with its 39th annual Madrigal din­ner, a medieval-themed feast and musical performance. 
Junior Toni Marsteller, who scripted and directed the per­formance and is cast as the Wench, said the theatrics and music are interwoven in the meal rather than preced­the Wassail Song when we bring out the Wassail bowl, we always sing ‘We Wish You a Merry Christmas,’ and each year I try to add one or two new songs.” 
First year Katie Corbett plays the role of the Jester, who taunts the other characters throughout the performance. 
“I’m an acting major, so I read for the Jester role, and it sound­ed really funny,” she said. “I’m really excited, but I’m also a little nervous. I hope every­

ing or follow-one enjoys the 
“We always sing the 
ing it. show.” 
Wassail Song when we 
“[The din-Corbett ’s
bring out the Wassail 
ner features] Jester con-Renaissance bowl, we always sing spires with 
and medieval-‘We Wish You a Merry junior So-style music, Christmas,’ and each phie Korson’s and there are year I try to add one character, the actors who or two new songs.” Cook, to play provide a tricks on the little comedy Wench. 
Nancy Menk 
throughout Korson,
music professor 
the dinner,” who has nev­
she said. 
Music pro­fessor Nancy Menk, who will direct the Madrigal for the 28th time, said the choir per­formances will include a com­bination of traditional songs with a few fresh selections. 
“Some songs are standards,” Menk said. “We always sing er partici­


pated in the Madrigal dinner before, said she decided to take part simply for the fun of it. 
“It sounded like fun, and I was open to trying it out,” she said. 
Sophomore Lauren Murphy, a member of the Women’s Choir performing at the dinner, said the performance helps spread the Christmas cheer around campus. 
“I like dressing up and get­ting into character,” she said. “The show really helps set the tone for the Christmas season.” 
Over her nearly three de­cades at the helm of the Mad­rigal, Wenk said the tradition has evolved significantly. 
“Before my time, they actu­ally stopped the show and did an opera right in the middle of the show,” she said. “One of the major changes was to change from a co-ed to an all-women’s choir, about seven or eight years ago, to better represent Saint Mary’s College.” 
Menk said she is amazed by the transformative effect the show has on Regina Hall, where it is presented. 
“The girls look so beautiful in their dresses and the room looks amazing,” she said. “By the time we’re done with it, it’s amazing to think it’s just a dorm lounge.” 
The Madrigal dinner will be celebrated Friday and Satur­day at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, November 30, 2011 


Garnett 
continued from page 1 
-ed States, and the Church more generally, in understanding, protecting and teaching about this freedom, is an honor.” 
The committee aims to “ad­dress the increasing threats to religious liberty in our society so that the Church’s mission may advance unimpeded and the right of believers of any religious persuasion or none be respect­ed,” Bishop William Lori, chair of the committee, said in a press release. 
While he is uncertain what his specific responsibili-


ties will be, “I sense that [the 
Garnett said committee members] he believes it 
are sensitive to the 
will have to 
importance of education 
do with reli-
Catholics about the 
gion and the 
law. centrality of religious freedom: religious 
“I teach 
and write freedom for all, not about just Catholics, and not church-state just for Americans.” relations, religi ous 
Richard Garnett 
freedom and 
professor 
constitution-
law 
al law, so the work of the ad hoc com­mittee is very closely connected to my own scholarly work, and … to the distinctive Catholic char­acter and mission of the Univer­sity,” he said. 
Garnett said the subcommit­tee will approach the issue of religious freedom from an inter­faith and international perspec­tive. 
“I sense that [the committee members] are sensitive to the 


Legacy 
continued from page 1 
taking donations from seniors in January. While graduat­ing seniors are automatically entered into the 2012 foot­ball season ticket lottery, they must make a donation to the fund during the 2012 calen­dar year to be entered into the 2013 season lottery, Mon­talbano said. 
Banda said the rate of se­niors who donate to the Senior Legacy Fund before gradua­tion typically hovers between 35 and 40 percent. This importance of educating Catho­lics about the centrality of reli­gious freedom: religious freedom for all, not just Catholics, and not just for Americans,” he said. 
Garnett said some people un­derestimate the level of religious persecution in the modern world. 
“In many places, Christians suffer outright persecution, and I think the bishops want to re­mind Catholics of the need to pray for and support these vic­tims of persecution,” Garnett said. 
It is crucial citizens under­stand that religious freedom is a basic right, he said. 
“There is also the important need to help not only Catholics, 
but all Ameri­cans, under­stand that reli­gious freedom is not just a matter of ‘spe­cial pleading,’” he said. “It is not a ‘liberal’ or ‘conservative’ concern, but a human rights concern.” 
The way gov­ernments ap­proach the issue of religious free­dom has ramifi­cations for its overall human 
rights policies, he said. 
“Other freedoms are not se­cure in a political community that does not protect religious freedom because, at the end of the day, a government that re­spects religious liberty is one that acknowledges limits on its power and reach,” he said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


year’s com-“We really encourage “The mittee hopes seniors to make donations to number initiatives the sponsored fund, but if a we’ll look such as the senior wants to give to their at for par­“USC Chal-down or major that still gets ticipation 
lenge” will will be any 
counted as participation 
increase par-donation 
for the senior legacy gift.” 
ticipation. that se­“We part-niors make 
Tim Ponisciak 
nered with to Notre the USC se-assistant director Dame,” nior class Notre Dame Annual Giving Program Ponisciak and recruit volunteers,” he said. 
The page also posts videos, photos and a “bucket list” of activities every senior should do before they graduate. 
In addition, Montalbano said donors who give over $20 will receive a pint glass fea­turing the Notre Dame mono­gram as a reward. 
Although the Legacy fund is directed at the senior class, assistant director of the Notre Dame Annual Giving Program Tim Ponisciak said anyone is welcome to donate. Seniors are also free to donate to an­other fund at the University 
of their 
choosing. 
gift  group  
and  who­ 
ever  has better participation  

rates for their class gift at the end of their school year wins this competition,” Banda said. “Whoever wins will get a trophy we’re having made that will travel from school to school.” 
The committee also created Facebook and Twitter pages for the 2012 Legacy Fund. On Facebook, Montalbano said the group holds weekly drawings where students who “like” the page can win gift cards to local businesses. 
“We’re trying to raise at­tention about the senior gift, encourage students to donate said. “We 
really en­courage seniors to make do­nations to the sponsored fund, but if a senior wants to give to their dorm or major that still gets counted as participation for the senior legacy gift.” 
Banda expects a great deal of enthusiasm from the senior class in response to the fund’s dedication. 
“We’ve already seen such a great response from seniors,” she said. “This is something we can all rally behind and something that is very unique to the class of 2012.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 




Professor discusses PPACA ethics 

By JESSICA STOLLER­CONRAD 
News Writer 

The federal mandate requir­ing group health plans cover preventative healthcare — in­cluding contraceptives — has ethical implications for reli­giously affiliated employers such as Notre Dame, law pro­fessor O. Carter Snead said at his Tuesday lecture, “Under­standing the PPACA ‘Contra­ceptive’ Mandate.” 
“As a matter of moral teach­ing, the Church opposes the use of artificial contraception,” Snead said. “A religious con­cern that has been raised … is Catholic institutions objecting to the mandatory without cost-sharing of contraception and sterilization.” 
While the Patient Protec­tion and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) is vague when describ­ing which procedures require employer coverage, the Health Resources and Services Admin­istration later specified that all FDA-approved contraceptives and sterilization procedures were included, Snead said. 
Snead said additional ethical challenges apply to the cover­age of contraceptive drugs with “abortifacient properties,” act­ing as contraceptives with the potential of terminating preg­nancy in the embryonic stage. 
While certain exemptions ex­ist, they are too narrow to apply to many institutions, including Notre Dame, Snead said. 
“There is an exemption for certain kinds of entities [such as religious organizations] that would not be subject to this mandate,” he said. “[Narrow restrictions] eliminate virtu­ally every Catholic institution in America from this exemption, except for Churches proper and religious orders.” 
Snead said some influential progressive Catholics support­ed the PPACA but were predom­inantly opposed to the narrow­ness of the exemptions. 
“[Catholic progressive lead­ers] showed near-unanimous opposition to the narrowness of the mandate exemption,” he said. 
The mandate drew attention on campus in September when University President Rev. John Jenkins publicly requested Notre Dame be exempted from the contraception measure, Snead said. 
Snead read an excerpt from Jenkins’ request letter high­lighting the University’s dilem­ma.
 “The regulation would com­pel Notre Dame to pay for con­traception and sterilization in violation of the Church’s social teaching, or to discontinue employee and student health­care plans, in violation of the Church’s social teaching, thus putting us in an impossible po­sition,” the letter stated. 
Because this mandate is al­ready law, it would have to be overturned or changed in order to loosen the exemption regula­tions.  Snead said, 
“The positive sign … is that there is bipartisan opposition to the regulations,” he said. 
Snead said the complexity of the issue lies in the disparity between how the two sides ap­proach the nature of contracep­tion. 
“Supporters believe that con­traception is a matter of public health, but religious conscien­tious objections are a private matter,” Snead said. 

Contact Jessica Stoller-Conrad at jstolle1@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 30, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
“Student government is not technically student government in the constitution, it is a Stu­dent Union,” he said. “Hopefully when we make Senate a body that is really representative of the Student Union, we can cre­ate a model of what this more productive discussion can be.” 
The reformed Senate will cre­ate a number of new chairs for existing COR members in an ef­fort to capture the opinions of students unrepresented by hall senators, Noe said. 
“The four class presidents, the off-campus president, the [Club Coordination Council] president, and, for now, the Student Union Board manager and the Stu­dent Union treasurer [will have votes], although there’s some talk about changing that within Senate,” he said. 
Parliamentarian Michael Mesi said the new format of Senate meetings will no longer include committee updates, which can be time consuming. 
“The chairmen of the Senate committees will no longer be in Senate meetings so there will no longer be updates from each committee, leaving more time for discussion between senators on current issues,” Mesi said. 
Committee chairs without voting rights, as well as mem­bers of COR not receiving a seat in the new Senate, will be able to speak at Senate meetings on relevant topics, Mesi said. 
“For example, when the topic being discussed in Senate is re­lated to social concerns, the So­cial Concerns committee chair can come and present and have speaking rights,” he said. 
While the measure still re­quires Senate approval, Noe said it has been reviewed and modified by a number of student government groups already. 
“I wrote up a rough draft reso­lution that I took to the subcom­mittee for constitution reform. We discussed it there, made recommendations and changes, checking with [the student body president, vice president and chief of staff] throughout,” he said. “Then the oversight com­mittee approved it and policy board voted to put it on the Sen­ate agenda.” 
Noe said the feedback thus far has been encouraging. 
“The feedback’s been positive ... People are in the mindset that this will create a more cohesive Student Union,” he said. “The fact that Student Senate will be representative of every organi­zation and be the highest group within student government, I think is a good thing, and I know COR members are excited to be engaged in policy issues.” 
While he was confident Sen­ate will approve the measure, Mesi said the reform can be modified within Senate if nec­essary. 
“[If there are objections], senators can make the chang­es to this resolution itself and they can still pass it themselves Wednesday night,” Mesi said. 
McCormick said he hopes the resolution will improve efficien­cy while adhering to student government’s intended purpose. 
“At the end of the day, we’re trying to cut through red tape that has been strung together over the course of years and years while retaining the origi­nal mission,” he said. “[That mission is for] the Student Union to advance the highest hopes of what Notre Dame students have for what this University can be­come.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 





Pets 
continued from page 1 
her, so it is a good practice in responsibility. This means food, litter, toys and vet bills, which can be pricey. Overall though, you get a little pal that loves you, which is really great.” 
Rose said he also enjoys the sense of companionship he gets from having a pet in the house. 


“One of the benefits of having the dog around is that there’s always someone at the house to entertain you or play with you even if all of the housemates are gone,” he said. 
Junior Shannon Hughes said she wishes on-campus students had more freedom with regard to housing pets. 
“Having pets around just makes everyone feel happier,” Hughes said. “I wish the rules were more lenient regarding pets in the dorms, but I under­stand how difficulties might arise with pets larger than fish.” 
Rose suggested that small, caged animals might be a rea­sonable option for students if du Lac were modified. 
“ND should open their policy up for animals, even though it would be tough to monitor,” he said. “I don’t think anyone is ready for dogs or cats in the dorms yet, but even smaller, less care-intensive animals would be good for students be­cause it teaches them a lot of responsibility, and they are fun to play with. Could you imagine gerbil balls running through the dorms? It could be hilari­ous.”   
While some residence halls have adopted dogs, Hughes, a Walsh Hall resident, said cam­pus could do with a few more. 
“We don’t have a dog in Walsh, but if we do ever get one, I think it will get more than enough love,” she said. “There are so many people in the dorm, and I think there would be more than enough people willing and happy to care for a dog.” 

Contact Emma Russ at           eruss@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 30, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Waffle home 
The yellow squares and black block letters clearly mark each restaurant and now appear vividly in my mind as I crave the All-Star Breakfast. For me, Waffle House has recently become a main subject of Joseph my homesickness. Monardo When I tire of din­ing hall food, I turn Sports Writer to Culver’s or Penn Station, but nothing can serve as a worthy substitute for Waffle House. 
I am an Atlanta native, and proud of it. I am proud of Coca-Cola, Chik­fil-a, Outkast, T.I. and countless other great things to come out of my home state. I wouldn’t necessarily include Waffle House as a source of Georgia pride, though. One of my roommates, a Philadelphia native, told me that he ate at a Waffle House once, and that it was “disgusting.” 
“No it’s not!” was my immedi­ate reaction. Well, maybe it is, but we love it anyway. This is why I wouldn’t hold Wa-Ho up as a prime example of Georgia’s greatness, be­cause it is what it is, and what it is isn’t very impressive on the surface. 
But behind underwhelming fur­nishings and sometimes question­able cleanliness of each restaurant in the now semi-national chain lie a veritable southern experience and some delicious food. The centerpiece of the Waffle House experience is undoubtedly the All Star, a break­fast platter that never fails to disap­point. For under $7 you can walk into any Waffle House in the country and get a waffle (a pecan waffle please), two eggs (scrambled), grits or hash browns (hash browns cov­ered and diced), bacon, sausage or ham (sausage) and your choice of toast (raisin toast). 
The hash browns merit a language of their own, as “covered” corre­lates to melted cheese, “smothered” to onions, “capped” to mushrooms, “country” to sausage gravy, etc. This structure speaks to the nature of the restaurant as a kind of insider’s club. That is certainly not to say that outsiders are unwelcome (don’t wor­ry, the menu will guide you through the hash brown possibilities), and in fact quite the contrary is true. 
In high school, the co-founder of Waffle House came to speak to a Leadership in Society class that I was in. He said many things, obvi­ously, but I remember one thing very clearly: “We can take someone who is happy,” he said, “and teach them how to cook a lot easier than we can take someone who can cook and teach them to be happy.” According­ly, the company’s employees at every location I have ever been to have been kind, warm and engaging. 
But still, even while I would encourage anyone to go to Waffle House, I’m not sure that anyone not from the Peach State would be able to experience it as I do. In this sense, the restaurant is an insider’s club, as the things that make it so special are individual associations that I, and so many other Georgians, have made between Waffle House and something else. Because I link in my mind the black and yellow signs, the delicious waffles and the signature atmosphere of the restau­rant with home, I embrace Waffle House in full, even the aspects that might not seem to be especially ap­pealing. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at      jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
In death — as in life — Nixon finds his way into everything. 
When I was a boy, my father showed me Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country — a film in which Kirk and Spock see the Klingon Empire, their historical enemy, collapse under the weight of its economic in­eptitude. Fighting hardliners on both sides, our heroes negotiate an end to galactic cold war and bring two very different cultures to understand one another for the first time. 
The 1991 release of this film was not an accident: By the end of the year, the Soviet Union would have collapsed under the weight of its economic in­eptitude. At the time, of course, I did not know this: I knew only that Kirk, whose son David had been murdered by Klingons, should have been the last person to extend to them the hand of friendship. When Kirk himself noted as much, Spock quipped that “there is an old Vulcan proverb: only Nixon could go to China.” 
At the time, of course, I had no idea who Nixon was, much less what it meant for him to go to China. I learned the latter only decades later when, during one of my accidental midnight sojourns into the depths of Wikipedia, I stumbled across Nixon in China, the 1987 opera by John Adams that recounts the 1972 visit by Nixon as though the latter were not a president at diplomacy but rather Oedipus at the 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Behind every great fortune there is a crime.” 
Honore de Balzac French realist novelist 


Memory 
crossroads. 

One wonders what will be remem­bered in 1,000 years. Men will doubt­less have forgotten who Mao Tse-Tung and Chou En-lai were, who Richard Mil­hous Nixon was, even what the People’s Republic of China and the United States of America were. But perhaps they will still stage Nixon in China and teach their sons and daughters its long dead language, English, just so they can understand what it tries to convey. We watch Oedipus the King to understand not ancient Greek epidemiology but rather the interplay of freedom and fate — just as we watch Nixon in China to understand not the geopolitics of the Cold War but rather what it means to be a man so deeply flawed that he cannot recognize his own heroism. 
In art, as in all things, we seek the universal: We are driven to challenge everything — every impression and proverb, every instinct and custom — in seeking what is true and good not just here and now but everywhere and forever. We are, in this, both blessed and cursed: We can transcend any limitation — only to find that there are always more limitations to transcend. For we can be satisfied with no finite thing. 
Oedipus the King and Nixon in China captivate us because they offer knowl­edge beyond that of Athens in 429 B.C. and America in A.D. 1987: They offer to us knowledge of who we really are 
— who we have always been and who, despite everything, we will always be. The special brilliance of Oedipus the King and Nixon in China is that each reveals to us the limitations upon such knowledge of ourselves — reveals to us, that is, the tragedy of our condition. 
Of course, comparing the two dra­

mas may well be nonsense: Among the limitations against which we will forever struggle is a partiality for the things of our own time and place. It may well be that men will forget Nixon in China within my lifetime — that my affection for it has everything to do with my fascination with the Cold War and minimal music and almost nothing to do with what it can or cannot teach us about the human condition. Perhaps it is rather Kirk and Spock who will become the mythic archetypes of future civilizations. 
Or perhaps all that we have done, all that we hold aloft in triumph, will be utterly forgotten. If one is honest with oneself — never an easy task — one finds it difficult to avoid this conclusion: Would Wagner have loved “Stairway to Heaven” as we do? Would Michelan­gelo have loved Campbell’s Soup Cans? Would Shakespeare have seen in Kirk and Spock an echo of Hamlet and Hora­tio? Would he at least have understood our need for them? 
Nixon in China ends, as I do, in un­certainty. As he stares alone into the night as though into the dark forever of his own death, Chou asks himself just one question: “How much of what we did was good?” Each of us, in the end, should remember to ask himself the same question. Nixon, it seems, could not bring himself to do so until it was too late. If he is to find his way even into our memory, let us at least learn from his failure. Let that be his legacy. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“The National Rifle Association says, ‘Guns don’t kill people. People do.’ But I think the gun helps.” 
Eddie Izzard British comedian 


Wednesday, November 30, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Occupy all streets 
At this point, everyone has presumably heard of the “Occupy” movement. You may have even seen the photos online of starving African children juxtaposed with hipster-looking American 20-somethings holding up Occupy signs; the former, they claim, are the real 99 percent, while the latter are actually the one percent in disguise. A friend of mine posted this with the caption, “Perspective is good.” As a Peace Corps applicant and someone who believes strongly in the need to fight the war on global poverty and hunger, I couldn’t agree more that it is important to remember how lucky we are in this country to have what we have, espe­cially those of us at an institution of higher learning like Notre Dame. 
It is even more important that we remember the duty we all have as human beings to help put an end to unnecessary suffering in the world. However, I don’t think the point of these photos was to encourage people to get out there and fight poverty. I think the point was to encourage the Occupi­ers to sit down and shut up, to stop whining about what they don’t have because they could have it so much worse. This disturbs me quite a bit, because as Americans, we should have every right to speak out about our problems. There is almost always someone who has it worse than you, but that does not mean that your problems are irrelevant or insig­nificant. 
Personally, I am happy to see our nation, and especially our generation, speaking out about anything at all. I had grown tired of the apathy I perceived in many of those around me, so this is a refreshing change of pace for me. I agree with the cause of the Occupy movement, since I see it as a problem that our country is controlled more by corpo­rations than by human beings. I don’t even know if these protests will bear any real fruit, and you don’t have to agree with the cause, but I think you should be happy that Ameri­cans can and do still speak out about important issues. 
Casey Quinlan 
senior Lyons Hall Nov. 28 
UWIRE 


Wrong message 
Members of the Occupy Student Debt Campaign unveiled their plan for easing student debt woes this Monday in Zuc­cotti Park. Their plan calls for students to sign a debtors pledge in which they promise to stop making payments on their student loans after one million people have signed the pledge. 
“There is no justice in a system that Editorial Board openly invites profiteering on the part of lenders. Education is a right and a public The Daily good, and it should be properly funded Cougar as such,” wrote the Occupy Student Debt Campaign on their website, occupystudentdebtcampaign. com. 
While the group has some noble ideas, their members voluntarily took on their loans, there was no one forcing them to do so. Instead of taking on substantial student loans, these students could have attended cheaper universities or funded their studies themselves. There are many students who decide to work in college instead of taking on student loans. These students often spend longer in college, but when they graduate they are not in debt. It would be unfair to these students if the debts of other students were forgiven. 
“There’s this very strong moral and ethical belief that peo­ple don’t walk away from loans they voluntarily assumed,” said Anya Kamenetz, the author of “Generation Debt,” in an article on The Huffington Post. 
Although the system is obviously broken, these students need to claim responsibility for their situation and pay off their debt. Their situation should serve as a warning to future students that they shouldn’t take on more debt than they can manage. 
Deciding to stop making payments on their student loans will only make the situation of these students more dire. The last thing a loan-laden college student needs in today’s job market is a black mark on their credit score. 
As of Monday night, only 253 individuals have signed the pledge — an indication that Occupy Student Debt has a lot of work to do before they reach their goal of one million sign­ers. 
This editorial first ran in the Nov. 22 edition of The Daily Cougar, the daily publication serving the University of Hous­ton. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Why I went to occupy 

Before coming back to Notre Dame to work as a rector, I was as an Overseas Lay Mission volunteer in Uganda with the Congregation of Holy Cross for 16 months. If I had to sum up that experience with one line, it would be, “I learned what and who global poverty looks like: my students, my neighbors and Terry friends.” Fitzgibbons 
Since my return to the U.S., I have wondered how I can stay Guest connected to the poor in Ugan-Columnist da while being so far away, and I have reflected on how the poor here are related to the poor over there. 
Several weeks ago, Dr. Paul Farmer and Father Gustavo Gutierrez gave a joint talk to a packed 101 Debartolo that re-injected me, and others I’m sure, with some new vigor regarding these questions. The themes I heard that night were not new but were highlighted by their personal experiences with the poor in the Americas: Poverty is not a naturally occurring phenomenon; poverty is created — some­times consciously, sometimes unconsciously; our gospel is necessarily a gospel of the poor; and we must be contemplatives in action on behalf of the poor. 
It might not have been everyone’s natural re­sponse to that talk, but I decided to visit Occupy South Bend, the local group inspired by the original Occupy Wall Street protest. It is headquartered at Jon Hunt Memorial Park, in front of the Mor­ris Performing Arts Center. I have visited several times since. The Occupy movement is mostly about inequality in our nation and, by natural extension, inequality in our world. 
In wealth inequality, the U.S. actually ranks very close to Uganda, for example, according to several reliable indexes. And related, research shows that while the perception of upward social mobility is high in the U.S., actual social mobility is well lower than many other countries. In short, the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer, and it is becoming less possible for hard-working people to climb the ladder. 
This massive wealth disparity is not natural. It is not healthy, and it is not morally acceptable. It mostly affects the poor, but it also affects us who are more privileged and everyone in between. For these reasons, we see the churches starting to join the Occupy movement, not because it is the answer but to join the conversation. 
No, Occupy is not the answer. But, it is an answer. 
It is the gospel that tells us to feed the hungry and clothe the naked. Notre Dame does plenty of that with its countless volunteer clubs, domestic and international service projects, mission collections and donation campaigns. Yes, “Service is the rent 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

we pay for living” (Marian Wright Edelman), and we pay that rent well. But also, “Justice is what love looks like in public” (Cornel West). Service is a good start, but justice is the next step, requiring ques­tions that might, scarily, implicate us and call us to conversion. What causes the hunger and the naked­ness, for example? 
Those types of questions led me to Occupy where I met all types of people. I met a family whose home was being foreclosed. I met unemployed auto work­ers who would love to follow the pundits’ advice to just “get a job,” if it was that simple. I met working poor people who came after work or in between their multiple jobs — hardly the lazy types I read about. I also met some folks from Indiana Universi­ty-South Bend who, upon learning where I worked, wanted to know where all the Notre Dame people were.
 The occupiers I met do not wholly demonize the financiers on Wall Street. They believe the banks have an important job to do but that simply they have not done their job. That they have been rewarded in their grandiose failures. That they are well overpaid relative to the social value they pro­vide. And, that they hold unaccountable sway over our political system. 
The occupiers I met do not want to replace capi­talism simply with another “–ism.” They do not hate business. In fact, they support local South Bend businesses. Nor do they hate America — the group includes veterans, some of them homeless. They do not want handouts and free rides. They want fairness and decent wages. They recognize that democracy is not limited to election days, especially as elections are ever more compromised by obscene campaign finance schemes, orchestrated by both parties. Occupy, imperfect as it definitely is, offers an alternative conversation where wealth is not a prerequisite. Occupy is not a Christian movement, but there are gospel elements in it. 
The poor in South Bend are connected to the poor in Uganda and everywhere else. We must first go to meet them. Once we are with them, we will neces­sarily be for them. 
Unfiltered investigation and honest reflection into these economic issues may not necessarily lead each of us to Zuccotti Park (NY) or Jon Hunt Memorial Plaza (South Bend) with such direct, political aims. But, the gospel will spur us to become contempla­tives in some type of action: to meet the poor, to understand what structures keep them poor and to work on their behalf. 
Terry Fitzgibbons is the rector of Duncan Hall. He can be reached at tfitzgib@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 16, 2011 

cuse, either in high school or college, for just relying  test his ideas.  
on the textbooks,” he said. “Now, back in 1970, when  “I think I am going to be able to demonstrate in the  
you’re thinking about a small town in Indiana that  room that most Notre Dame students have been lied  
hardly has a library, then maybe there’s an excuse to  to,” Loewen stated. “We’ll see if I can.”  
have a 900 or 1,000 page history textbook.”  Have you been lied to? Come find out.  
Times have changed though, according to Loewen,  
and now those small towns have access to the In- Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu  
ternet and all sorts of primary historical documents.  
These primary documents are hugely important to  
really learning history and unlocking the secrets  
that aren’t revealed in our textbooks, he said.  On campus  
Loewen hit upon this problem at Tougaloo College,  
a historically black college in Mississippi, where he  
taught for eight years.  
“I had an experience, which I will talk about at my  
talk, an interesting experience my first year teach- What: James Loewen, author of  
ing, that blew my mind,” he said. “It convinced me  
that my students had been lied to, and in fact they  “Lies My Teacher Told Me”  
had … the fact that history can be a weapon, that  
history can be used against you, that was taught to  Where: Debartolo 101  
me in Mississippi.”  
But it wasn’t just Mississippi that had been lying to  When: Wednesday, Nov. 30,  
its students. Loewen encountered the same problem  
when he moved to Vermont and began teaching at  6:30 p.m.  
the University of Vermont there. And so he spent two  
years at the Smithsonian Institute surveying leading  How Much: Free  
American history textbooks, discovering more lies  
and misinformation. With his books, he calls on stu- Learn More: http://nd.edu/~sub/  
dents to challenge, not blindly follow, textbooks and  
seek the real historical truth.  
And for his talk today, Loewen wants to try and  

MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
We trusted them. We listened to them for years. We put our education in their hands. And they lied to us. That’s right, I’m talking about our history teachers. 
That’s what James Loewen believes, and what he will talk about today. Loewen, a sociologist, is the author of a number of books on the subject, best known for his book “Lies My Teacher Told Me: Every­thing Your American History Textbook Got Wrong.” 
As this year is the 150th anniversary of the Civil War, Loewen will center his talk around this era in American history and the issues that have been over­looked in typical textbooks. 
Loewen said he will draw from research he did for his latest book, “The Confederate and Neo-Confeder­ate Reader,” a look at the reasons behind the seces­sion of the southern states in the early 1860s. 
“Last December was the sesquicentennial of when the first state, South Carolina, quit the Union,” Loew­en told The Observer. “In [my book] is why, why South Carolina, why each of the 11 states left the Union. This is information that even though it’s totally clear in 1860, it’s totally murky today.” 
In his talk, Loewen will clear the muddy waters and bring to light some truths about the Civil War that are important and relevant today. In his studies and experiences, he found that an overreliance on textbooks has hurt history students of all ages. 
“In this day, when we have the web, there’s no ex-


TROY MATHEW 
Scene Writer 

In “Immortals,” director Tarsem Singh uses a mixture of real set and CG work to create a visually stunning film. Oh, and apparently there’s a plot too. 
“Immortals” tells the story of Theseus, a mortal man chosen by Zeus to lead the fight against the ruthless King Hyperion. Hyperion (Mickey Rourke) scours the Greek countryside in order to find the Epirus Bow, a legendary and all-powerful weapon. Once Hyperion has the bow, he can unleash the Ti­tans and wreak worldwide havoc. Theseus (Henry Cavill) uses the help of a gifted Virgin Oracle (Fre­ida Pinto) to thwart Hyperion’s plan. 
If the plot sounds convoluted, it’s because it is. 
The producers of “Immortals” were the same behind “300,” and the films have drawn compari­sons due to their undeniable similarities. “300,” however, is ultimately more successful because of its streamlined plot. In “Immortals,” Hyperion searches for the Virgin Oracle in order to get the Epirus Bow, in order to release the Titans and achieve worldwide domination. The plot loses focus in parts, and isn’t as captivating as the climactic final battle in “300.” The plot of “Immortals” drags, and could definitely benefit from paring down its 110 minutes. 
Despite his character’s narrative shortcomings, Rourke is fantastic in “Immortals.” His gruff de­meanor and hulking figure are perfect for the ma­niacal Hyperion. Hyperion is power-hungry and not afraid to castrate or behead a few hundred people to get to the top. Rourke commands nearly every scene he appears in, mostly because the audience is dreading seeing another one of the disgustingly violent punishments he inflicts on those who dis­please him. 
Speaking of violence, “Immortals” has plenty. Several scenes in the movie are nauseating, even for the most desensitized audience members. The battle scenes feature a lot of stylized violence, simi­lar to “300,” which means blood spatters in spec­tacular slow motion and every bone-crunch is au­dible. 
The special effects in “Immortals” are what audi­ences came to see. The landscape and battle scenes are visually stunning, and do their best to distract audiences from the sub-par plot. Nevertheless, the plot keeps getting in the way. 
The film takes too long to get to the climactic fi­nal battle because the characters spend a frustrat­ing amount of time discussing fate, mortality and the burden of seeing the future. This discussion would be fine if it was well-written and significant, but it’s not. Instead, this dialogue detracts from what everyone wants — special effects and people getting their skulls crushed. 
“Immortals” is not bad because it’s a campy, special-effect-laden gore-fest. It’s bad because it pretends that it’s not. Despite big names like Frie­da Pinto of “Slumdog Millionaire” fame, the char­acters just don’t resonate and don’t hold interest when there’s no bloody action. 
Despite its pretense and weak plot, “Immortals” is a solid addition to the Greek-mythology film can­on, due entirely to its special effects. “300” fanatics will love “Immortals,” but anyone else who thinks they can stomach the violence should save their money and watch it when it’s out on DVD. Don’t go into it expecting profound dialogue, but do go into it anticipating some Mickey Rourke-induced nau­sea. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 



“Immortals” 
Starring: Mickey Rourke, Henry Cavill, Freida Pinto 
LISA  HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
If you want good advice, go to the experts. 
For the latest installment in the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) department’s Talks Lecture Series, television producers Antonia Ellis and Kevin Fortson will be at Notre Dame today to present their lecture, “Pro­ducing Successful Television Shows — Studio and Producer Perspectives.” 
Both Ellis and Fortson have plenty of experience to share with success­ful television shows, with experience from “Sex and the City,” “Royal Pains,” “America’s Best Dance Crew,” “Pretty Little Liars” and “The Bachelor.” 
Ellis has been the producer of “Sex & the City,” “Royal Pains” and “Men in Trees.” She was also co-producer of “The Corner,” which won an Emmy for Best Mini-Series.  She was a pro­duction executive and head of post-production at DreamWorks SKG Tele­vision, and before that was associate producer on “Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman.” 
Prior to relocating to New York City from Los Angeles, Ellis was a pro­ducer on a television sitcom pilot for DreamWorks/ABC called “Immedi­ate Family” while working at Dream-Works SKG Television as a Production Executive and as the Head of Post Pro­duction. 
Ellis has also produced feature films and is developing a web series.  She co-created, wrote and produced an inde­pendent children’s film, “The Adven­tures of Cinderella’s Daughter.” She has also written an historical feature film, “My Clara,” about the true story of Clara Wieck and Robert Schumann. She is developing the feature-length romantic comedy, “Tender,” a single-camera comedy TV-series, “My Secret Ingredient,” and a Web Series, “The Dinner Party.” 
She got her start in feature films, both domestic and international, working with such companies as the BBC (London), Columbia Pictures, Castle Rock Entertainment, Morgan Creek Productions and Universal Stu­dios. 
In 1989, she moved to Los Angeles to work as an assistant to Joe Roth, then chairman of 20th Century Fox Film Corp. Afterwards, she worked as Billy Crystal’s assistant on “City Slickers.” Her other feature credits include “Par­enthood,” “Young Guns II,” “Coupe de Ville,”  “Red Shoe Diaries,” “Ford Fair-lane” and “Married to the Mob.” 
Ellis not only has worked in movies and television, but music as well. She began her early career in music vid­eos, stadium rock concert promotion and production and the record indus­try. Her passion in music led to radio, where she worked as a disc jockey and producer and hosted her own morn­ing show. 
Meanwhile, Fortson is senior vice president of production for Warner Horizon, the Warner Bros. division for lower-budget scripted and reality se­ries for cable and broadcast TV. 
Currently, he produces scripted and reality series.  He oversees the hit reality franchise “The Bachelor” 
— which includes “The Bachelorette” and “Bachelor Pad” — “The Voice,” “Rizzoli & Isles,” “Pretty Little Liars,” “The Lying Game” and “Randy Jack­son Presents America’s Best Dance Crew.” 
Fortson was previously senior vice president of operations and studio fa­cilities for Warner Bros. Before that he worked on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show,” “Extra,” “Geraldo” and “Now It Can Be Told.” 
Prior to his current position, For­ston was senior vice president of oper­ations and studio facilities for Warner Bros. Before that, he spent 11 years at Telepictures Productions, most re­cently as senior vice president of pro­duction and also was vice president, chief operating office and executive in charge of production at Investigative News Group, in New York. 
The two producers have years of experience and want to share their knowledge with budding film and tele­vision producers, so don’t miss out if you are interested. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 



On campus 
What: “Producing Successful Television Shows — Studio and Producer Perspectives” Where: Eck Visitors Center Auditorium When: Wednesday, Nov. 30, 
4:30p.m. How Much: Free Learn More: ftt.nd.edu 

KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 

“Low Town,” the debut novel by au­thor Daniel Polansky, brings a fast-paced blend of crime noir and fantasy genres that result in a thrilling and mesmerizing read. 
The novel is always on the edge of one cliché or another. It’s set in a grimy, crime-infested town con­trolled by a corrupt government and sets a bitter, hard-edged former-cop­turned-criminal as its antihero pro­tagonist. 
A morally horrific crime, the mur­der of a child, draws him out of his routine and forces out his heroic and noble side, which he tries so hard to keep hidden. 
On the surface, that sounds like a pretty stereotypical crime noir novel. I’m pretty sure I could churn something out with that formula at my fin­gertips. 
But just when it seems that the novel is going to settle into a mire of predictabil­ity and unoriginality, Polansky throws in a huge curveball. 
This is no ordinary crime novel. First, the story is set in an alternate universe in which the civilization apparently never pro­gressed beyond the technologies of the 17th century. 
The people are still dealing with the aftereffects of a great war, as well as a devastating plague that ravaged the population. 
And on top of all of that, there’s magic. 
Polansky does not spend his time explaining all of these developments. Though slightly frustrating at first 
— frankly it was hard to understand what the narrator was talking about some of the time — it eventually ac­complishes two very important goals. 
First, by not belaboring the point and going over the top explaining ev­ery detail of this new world to read­ers, he avoids a trap that many fan­tasy novels fall into: wasting half the novel on boring background explana­tions that don’t mean anything to the story. 
Second, by illustrating the world of the novel through the narrator’s eyes and telling the story as he would’ve seen it, Polansky makes the whole thing feel much more real and acces­sible. 

As a whole, this magical new world, which is alluded to more than ex­plained, keeps the novel from becom­ing a stale repeat of every fantasy or crime novel ever written. The blend of styles, along with the fast pace of the story telling, keeps readers from focusing on any one single cliché in the book long enough for it to become an issue. 
And as far as stories go, this is a good one. It is filled with action and mystery, with enough twists, turns and unique characters to keep read­ers fascinated on every page. There is real emotional development with the characters, a point lost in many fan­
tasy and crime novels. 
The book is not per­fect, though. There is a certain level of weird that one must get over to get lost in this nov­el. All the magic, ter­minology, names and little details are just a bit weird — that’s the only word for it. 
Polansky’s writing style, while well de­veloped and appro­priately paced for this novel, rubbed me the wrong way at times. Maybe it’s my delicate sensibilities, but ev­ery time I read the “f” 

word in a book, it comes off wrong in my head, and I lose the pace of the story for a little bit. 
If you’re not into wizards and mag­ic, this isn’t for you. If you’re not into gratuitous violence, this isn’t for you. If you’re not into books, I can’t help you. Wait for the movie. 
But if you’re looking for an engag­ing read, and mystery and fantasy are your slices of pie, this novel is right up your alley. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 




“Low Town” by Daniel Polansky 
Doubleday PublishersAvailable on Amazon.com $18.94 
LISA  HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 30, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 






Meyer to face challenges in new job at Ohio State 
You know the old girlfriend who broke up with you and said she was not ready for a long-term commitment, but two weeks later you signed on Facebook and saw she was in a re­lationship? 
Yeah, that’s Urban Meyer right now. 
The 47-year-old head coach who took a leave of ab­sence, then retracted it, then coached another year before retiring for health and personal reasons, before becom­ing a commentator has now seen his Brett Favre-esque soap op­era come full circle as he is now running the show at Ohio State (rumor has it University presi­dent Gordon Gee has his fingers crossed Meyer won’t fire him). 
So how legitimate is it for Florida fans to be enraged by the change in Meyer’s tune? 
Very legiti­mate. After all, 

were egregious enough to warrant a punishment simi­lar to that of USC? If Meyer faces scholarship reductions and a bowl ban for a couple years, even the mega-recruit­er himself won’t find it easy to lure the nation’s top talent to Columbus. 
On top of that, Meyer has a more difficult location to sell to recruits now that he is in gloomy Ohio compared to sunny Florida. He will keep his footprint in the south and still pull in elite blue-chip­pers, but not to the extent he was able to in the SEC. 
Meyer needs to adapt to a different style of football in the Big 10, one that is much less speed-and skill-oriented. Judging from Meyer’s track record, adapting should not be a problem if he can find the passion. 
He already has a dual-threat quarterback that should thrive in his system in freshman Braxton Miller, and that’s a key start for Meyer. 
But what if he decides a year or two from now the 
stress is too 
much, he 
hasn’t found 
the “balance” 
he took a year 
this was the off to find, 
Meyer needs to adapt 
first big-time the sanctions 
to a different style of 
coaching op-are too much, 
football in the Big 10, 
portunity that the fans are 
one that is much less 
opened up too impatient, since Meyer’s speed-and skill-oriented. the wife is departure Judging from Meyer’s unhappy with from Florida, track record, adapting the weather and he could should not be a problem if in the Mid-not resist the he can find the passion. west and the 
opportunity. 
It’s amaz­ing Meyer was able to wipe away the drool he’s had for that job since Jim Tressel was let go in May and articulate as well as he did during ESPN broadcasts this year. 
So what kind of results should we expect from Meyer in the change of scenery? 
It will be difficult for him to be more successful than he was in Gainesville, when he won two national championships in six seasons in the nation’s toughest conference. 
Ohio State’s pending sanctions with the NCAA won’t do him any favors, but he is a good enough coach and program-builder to overcome whatever obstacles are thrown his way — if he re­ally wants to take on that chal­lenge. 
What if the NCAA decides the missteps made by the Buckeyes talent is not 
what he came 
to expect in 
the SEC? 
Would he 
dare step away from a $40-million con­tract the tradition-rich school at which he has dreamed of coaching — one that has already proven its willingness to cede unlimited power to a football coach? 
With Meyer, you simply never know what move he will make next. His commitment is always strong — sometimes it lies with football and some­times with family. This week, he made his latest decision. When will he make the next? 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 


Winless Colts make changes 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Curtis Painter and Larry Coyer are out in Indianapolis, and it could be just the start of the changes for the winless Colts. 
Coach Jim Caldwell broke up a normally quiet Tuesday by announcing that Coyer had been fired as defensive coordinator and that Dan Or­lovsky would replace Painter at quarterback when the Colts play at New England on Sun­day. Longtime linebackers coach Mike Murphy will re­place Coyer. 
The moves come in the midst of a shocking 0-11 sea­son, Indianapolis’ worst start since 1986, and two days af­ter Indy may have lost its last chance at a victory. 
“It’s not an easy day,” Caldwell said. “Anybody that would tell you any differently is cold-hearted and callous, and that’s not me.” 
The relationship between the two coaches dates to the 1970s when Coyer was an assistant coach at Iowa and Caldwell was a player there. And over the past three sea­sons, Caldwell has gone out of his way to back Painter even after Painter was serenaded by boos when he failed to save Indy’s perfect season in his NFL debut two years ago. Caldwell yanked Peyton Manning in the third quar­ter against the New York Jets in 2009, and Indy lost 29-15, dropping its record to 14-1. 
As recently as Monday, Caldwell still seemed to back Painter, saying the Indiana native and Purdue alumni had improved in Sunday’s 27­19 loss to Carolina. Painter rallied the Colts after another slow start and got them in po­sition, twice, to force overtime late. Both times Painter threw interceptions in the end zone. 
Some thought these chang­es were overdue and could have been made during the Colts’ recent bye week. 
But this could be just the start for Indianapolis. 
All this losing has prompt­ed fans to call for the firing of Caldwell, vice chairman Bill Polian and general manager Chris Polian, both of whom stood behind Caldwell during Tuesday’s news conference. The decision to fire Coyer, Caldwell’s first hire and close friend, will undoubtedly cre­ate more speculation about the fate of Indy’s head coach. 
In an interview earlier this month, team owner Jim Ir-say said he strongly backed the Polians. He showed more tepid support for keeping Caldwell. 


On Monday night, Bill Polian told listeners on his weekly radio show that changes were coming. 
“The message isn’t getting across as clearly as it should be,” Polian said as he talked about the defense. “We probably have to make some changes there and when you’re in the position we are, you should probably be making changes.” 
Caldwell acknowledged there was a communication gap between the pipe-smoking, 68-year-old Coyer and his play­ers. The defense is ranked 29th overall and 31st against the pass. 
But it’s not just the defense struggling. 
Painter’s quarterback rating of 
66.6 is the second-lowest among all qualified NFL starters. Only Jacksonville rookie Blaine Gab­bert (62.2) has a lower mark. 
Still, it’s unclear if Painter an­ticipated that a change was com­ing after throwing eight inter­ceptions and one TD in his last five games. 
“I think coming out of this past game we were able to move the ball and score some points, so I think we have a little bit of con­fidence,” he said Monday. “We just have to trust that we’ll get it done on all sides of the ball, and it won’t be a big scoring shoot­out.” 
Now, it’s Orlovksy’s job. 
The seven-year NFL veteran has appeared in three games this season. He’s started seven career games, all with the 0-16 Detroit Lions in 2008. Orlovsky is 14 of 21 for 122 yards with no touchdowns or interceptions this season. 
What can be accomplished by making these moves so late in the season? 
“Obviously, it’s going to be very, very difficult to say you’re going to see a wholesale change (on defense) in three days,” Caldwell said. “But I do think that you’re going to see effort, hustle and good, sound princi­ples and practices, and football in the way in which we know how to play. We just expect to be better in all areas. Now that’s going to take, like I said, it’s go­ing to take us a little time.” 
The season has been full of twists and turns for Indy, most involving Manning’s absence. 
The four-time league MVP had surgery in May to repair a dam­aged nerve that was causing weakness in his throwing shoul­der, then signed a new 5-year, $90 million contract just be­fore the start of training camp. When his recovery went slower than expected, the Colts signed 17-year NFL veteran Kerry Col­lins to a $4 million deal as Man­ning’s top backup. 
Then on Sept. 8, Manning un­derwent a spinal fusion and has not been able to practice since. If he has a good checkup Wednes­day, he could start throwing at practice in December. 
Collins started the first three games before sustaining a sea­son-ending concussion late in Week 3. Painter replaced Collins in that loss, then played well in his first three starts before post­ing four straight quarterback ratings below 51.0. 
Coyer was a defensive assis­tant for two years in Tampa Bay and in Denver from 2000-06 before joining the Colts in 2009. In his first season with Indy, the Colts ranked eighth in the NFL in scoring defense (19.2 points per game). But the defense has gotten progressively worse each of the last two seasons. 
“I’ve known him a longtime, he coached me in college,” Caldwell said. “(He is) a good man, (a) hard-worker and I cer­tainly appreciate everything he’s done for us. I think we can make a change, and you’re going to see some results.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL Athletes Born on this Day: 1962 - Bo Jackson, baseball/ 1969 - Larry Brown, NFL 1971 - Ray Durham, American From 137 to 161, 
football player (KC Royals, LA cornerback (Dallas Cowboys, baseball player From there to Australia and back, 1931 - Bill Walsh, NFL coach (SF Raiders) Oakland Raiders) All the way to 341, 49ers) 1973 - Ty Howard, cornerback Now, resting cozily in 334, 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 1964 - David Wood, NBA forward 1969 - Mark Lewis, Hamilton OH, (Arizona Cardinals) He brought a fan, go it alone. Notre Dame has many 1950 - Paul Westphal, NBA guard (Dallas Mavericks) infielder (Detroit Tigers) And musical taste like no other. resources in place to assist you. (Boston Celtics, Phoenix Suns) 1974 - Luther Broughton, HB He loved the foof chair, If you or someone you love needs 1965 - Mike Zandofsky, NFL guard 1970 - James Brown, tackle (Miami (Philadelphia Eagles) But not as much as his Tecmo. confidential support or assistance, 1955 - Andy Gray, English soccer (Atlanta Falcons, Philadelphia Dolphins) Now, after years of waiting, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 player Eagles) 1974 - Marcellus Wiley, defensive He joins us on nights. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 1970 - Robert Griffith, NFL strong end (Buffalo Bills) He brings merriment to the lights, information, visit ND’s website at: 1965 - Aldair, Brazilian footballer safety (Minnesota Vikings) And for this we are grateful. 
1960 - Bob Tewksbury, Concord 1979 - Andrés Nocioni, Argentine Happy birthday Sush. http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu NH, pitcher (San Diego Padres) 1967 - Gary Jones, NFL safety 1971 - Ivan Rodriguez, MLB basketball player It’s about time. 
Wednesday, November 30, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 



Lions’ Suh suspended two games for stomping incident 
Associated Press NFLPA will be on his side to ing NFL Defensive Rookie of the 
make sure that he gets a fair Year requested a meeting with 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. — hearing.” Commissioner Roger Goodell to Ndamukong Suh is going back If the NFL turns rejects the discuss his play after he drew to the NFL, this time hoping for appeal, Suh will be watching several penalties and another some leniency. the Lions (7-4) scramble to keep fine. Suh said he had a better 
The league suspended De-up in the NFC wild-card race af-understanding of the rules af­troit’s All-Pro defensive tackle ter what the league said was his ter that meeting four weeks ago. without pay for two games on fifth violation of on-field rules in On Sunday, he called Goodell to Tuesday, punishing the second-his first two years in the NFL. apologize but that didn’t appear year player for roughing up a And everyone saw the latest one. to help. Green Bay Packers offensive Suh lifted up his right knee Lions offensive linemen Domi­lineman after the whistle last and forcibly stepped on Evan Di-nic Raiola and Rob Sims refused week. etrich-Smith’s right arm during to answer questions about Suh 
Suh promptly appealed his the third quarter of the Lions’ after Tuesday’s practice. Van-suspension, hoping his stomp 27-15 loss last Thursday in a den Bosch, though, believes ev­doesn’t keep him away from nationally televised Thanksgiv-eryone in the locker room sup-his playoff-hopeful teammates ing Day game. Before the stomp ports Suh, who he spoke with on when they need him most. seen from coast to coast, Suh Tuesday. 
Ndamukong Suh will miss a shoved Dietrich-Smith’s helmet “His biggest regret is the af­road game at the Saints and a toward the turf while separat-fect it had on the team,” Vanden home matchup vs. the Vikings ing himself from the Packers Bosch said. “It was an unfortu­for stomping on a Packers play-player on the ground. nate situation. When you’re on er’s arm on Thanksgiving. It might have hurt Suh’s case the field, a lot of things happen 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello when he sounded defiant during when you’re playing with so said Suh’s hearing will be with his postgame news conference, much emotion in such a physi-Art Shell, an appointed appeal insisting he didn’t intentionally cal game. It’s difficult to look officer who is paid by the league step on his opponent. at the grand scheme of things and NFLPA. After the Lions criticized his when you’re in the heat of the 
As of late Tuesday afternoon, conduct Friday, Suh issued an moment. the hearing hadn’t been sched-apology to his teammates, orga-“There’s no question he’d like uled, but the league has said it nization and fans — not to Di-to have the moment back, but will expedite the procedure to etrich-Smith — as some around he’s dealing with the repercus­give Suh and Lions an answer the league said his latest out-sions of it and we are as well.” before Sunday’s game at New burst proved he was the NFL’s The Lions will have a roster Orleans. dirtiest player. exception during Suh’s suspen-

If Suh doesn’t win the appeal, “I’ll let him speak for himself sion, meaning they can sign little bit from doing something personal fouls since 2010, ac­he won’t play against the Saints when he gets that opportunity, someone to replace him or like that,” Bishop said. cording to STATS LLC — two or in the Dec. 11 home game but I’ve had a lot of conversa-bolster some other spot on the Guard T.J. Lang said the team more times than teammate against Minnesota. He would tions with him the last two days team. was moving forward and wasn’t Cliff Avril and three more than return Dec. 12 ahead of a road and I think he is in a different Dietrich-Smith wasn’t avail-worried about Suh. Philadelphia’s Jason Babin, San game against Oakland. spot,” Lions coach Jim Schwartz able to reporters in Green Bay “Fortunately, we’ve never Francisco’s Dashon Goldson and 
Suh is barred from practice said Tuesday. “I think his No. on Tuesday, but other Packers been in a situation like that,” Denver’s D.J. Williams. and the team’s facility while 1 thing is, he didn’t want to players heard of the suspension. he said. “We just worry about Suh grabbed Cincinnati quar­suspended. He did not return be a distraction for the team. Linebacker Desmond Bishop ourselves and what we do as terback Andy Dalton and threw messages left with his agent. He wanted the team to be able said Suh “probably deserved it.” a group, and I think we have him to the turf after he had 
“As a player, you have to ap-to focus on the Saints and he “He did something wrong, enough intelligence, definitely, gotten rid of the ball in a pre­peal it,” said Detroit defensive wants to be accountable for his suspended, he’ll pay the fine or as a team, and enough charac-season game this year. He was end Kyle Vanden Bosch, the actions.” whatever and hopefully (he’ll ter, guys not doing any dumb docked twice last year for shov­team’s union rep. “I’m sure the Earlier this season, the reign-be) back and it’ll change him a things to put the team in jeop-ing Chicago’s Jay Cutler high ardy. That’s for other teams to in the back and for twisting worry about.” Cleveland’s Jake Delhomme’s Suh has already been fined face mask and slamming him three times for roughing up to the ground. He also was fined quarterbacks and another time $5,000 during Week 9 in the for unsportsmanlike conduct. 2010 season for unsportsman-
He leads the league with nine like conduct. 




page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 30, 2011 
NFL 


Jaguars fire Del Rio, owner sells team 
Associtaed Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — The Jacksonville Jaguars are headed in a completely new direction. 
And Los Angeles doesn’t ap­pear to be the destination. 
Team owner Wayne Weaver fired longtime coach Jack Del Rio on Tuesday after a 3-8 start and agreed to sell the Jaguars to Illi­nois businessman Shahid Khan. Weaver named defensive coor­dinator Mel Tucker the interim coach and gave general manager Gene Smith a three-year con­tract extension, putting him in charge of the coaching search. 
The moves marked the most significant changes for the small-market franchise since its inception in 1993. 
“It’s the right thing at the right time and for the right reasons,” Weaver said. “We deserve better; the community deserves better. We’ve been very average over the last few years. I take responsibil­ity for a lot of that, making mis­takes in some personnel things, but look positive ahead that this team is not far away from being a very competitive football team.” 
Forbes reported the sale to be worth $760 million. 
Weaver, who will turn 77 in January, had been looking for an “exit strategy” for years, want­ing to find someone to buy the team and keep it in Jackson­ville. He had tears in his eyes several times as he announced his impending departure. 
“It’s a little bittersweet, hon­estly, that it came as soon as it did,” Weaver said. “But the main motivation for the exit strat­egy was to find someone that has the same passion about the NFL, had the same passion about football in Jacksonville as we do, and I found that person.” 
Khan, 61, believes he is the right choice, too. 
“Wayne’s legacy will be last­ing, and I will always be grate­ful for Wayne’s trust and confi­dence in my commitment to the Jaguars, the NFL and the people of the Jacksonville commu­nity,” Khan said in a statement. 
Born in Pakistan, Khan left home at age 16 to attend the Uni­versity of Illinois. He graduated in 1971, a year after he started working for Flex-N-Gate Corp. in Urbana, Ill. He purchased the company in 1980. Today, Flex-N-Gate is a major manu­facturer of bumper systems for pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles built in North America. 
Khan tried to buy controlling in­terest in the St. Louis Rams last year. 
His purchase of the Jaguars is subject to NFL approval. League owners will vote to ratify the deal Dec. 14, and if it passes, would become official Jan. 4. 
The Jaguars could have a new coach in place before then. 
“There’s a lot of good things that will happen in the future,” Smith said. 
Del Rio’s job security had been tenuous since Weaver said the coach needed to make the playoffs to secure a 10th sea­son in Jacksonville. The Jag­uars were essentially elimi­nated with Sunday’s 20-13 loss to AFC South-leading Houston. 
“It’s the nature of the beast,” tight end Marcedes Lewis said. “Change is good sometimes. Ob­viously, it’s an unfortunate situa­tion. … This is the NFL and unfor­tunate things happen sometimes.” 
The timing of the move made sense since the Jaguars are strug­gling to sell tickets and host a Mon­day night game against San Diego. The team needs to sell about 9,000 tickets to avoid a local television blackout for a prime-time game. 
Making a coaching change could boost sales. 
Del Rio leaves with a 69-73 record, including 1-2 in two playoffs appearances. The Jag­uars didn’t win the AFC South in any of his nine seasons. 
Weaver gave Del Rio a four-year extension worth $21 mil­lion after Jacksonville won a playoff game following the 2007 season. The team stumbled to a 5-11 finish the following season, and Weaver overhauled the ros­ter but decided to keep Del Rio. 


SOCCER 



Liverpool, Manchester City advance 
Associtaed Press 

LONDON — Liverpool raided Chelsea for the second time in 10 days to reach the semifinals of the League Cup on Tuesday, while Manchester City also grabbed a victory against a Premier League title rival in London to qualify for the last four. 
Craig Bellamy set up goals for Maxi Rodriguez in the 58th min­ute and Martin Kelly in the 63rd as seven-time competition win­ner Liverpool won 2-0 at Stam­ford Bridge to pile the pressure on Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas, whose team has now lost five of its last nine matches in all competitions. 
It was an emotional night for Bellamy, who returned to the Liv­erpool team two days after miss­ing its 1-1 draw with Manchester City in the Premier League be­cause he was too upset to play fol­lowing the death of former Wales teammate Gary Speed on Sunday. 
The striker held back the tears prior to kickoff on Tuesday as fans and players from both sides conducted a moving one minute’s applause at Stamford Bridge in honor of Wales’ national team manager, before going on to play a key part in Liverpool’s disman­tling of the home side. 
“Speedo was regarded as his mentor,” Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish said of Bellamy. “To come back and play like that speaks volumes.” 
City, which is five points clear at the top of the Premier League, transferred its form to England’s second-ranked club competition, beating Arsenal 1-0 thanks to an 83rd-minute goal by Sergio Ague­ro. 
The Argentina striker, who came off the bench midway through the first half, met a pass from Adam Johnson with a thumping shot past Arsenal goal­keeper Lukasz Fabianski as City eliminated Arsene Wenger’s side in the quarterfinals for the second time in three seasons. 
Second-tier Cardiff reached the last four for the first time since 1966 by beating Premier League struggler Blackburn 2-0. 
Manchester United looks to be­come the third northwest power to make the semifinals when it hosts Crystal Palace in Wednes­day’s only match. 
Chelsea was unfortunate to lose 2-1 to Liverpool in the league on Nov. 20 but was outclassed 10 days later, even though Liverpool was playing just 48 hours after a gruelling match against City. 
“It’s a pity for us,” Villas-Boas said. “We had a good chance to progress at home but Liverpool were far superior.” 
Andy Carroll wasted a glorious chance to put Liverpool ahead, blasting a 22nd-minute penalty straight at Chelsea goalkeeper Ross Turnbull after Alex was pe­nalized for handling the ball in his own box. 

Rodriguez made no mistake from close range just before the hour, though, tapping home at the far post after running onto a inch-perfect cross by Bellamy, who had broken the offside trap on the right wing. 
Bellamy was again the provider five minutes later when he swung in a great free kick from the left that was glanced in by England under-21 defender Kelly. 
Chelsea’s defeat — its third in a 10-day span in three differ­ent competitions — will be an­other tough pill to swallow for Villas-Boas, who had to deal with chants from Liverpool’s vocal fans of “You’re getting sacked in the morning” in the second half. 
With the Blues 10 points off the lead in the Premier League and facing possible elimination from the Champions League, their best chance of silverware may have been the League Cup. 


Wednesday, November 30, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MLB 



Giants extend management’s contract 

Associtaed Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Brian Sa­bean’s office is connected to the San Francisco Giants’ clubhouse, only a matter of feet from where manager Bruce Bochy prepares for games. The close proxim­ity makes for regular planning meetings, before first pitch and often well into the night after the final out. 
CEO Larry Baer is commit­ted to maintaining that conti­nuity with his club, and took a step Tuesday by giving both the general manager and manager contract extensions taking them through the 2013 season with club options for 2014. 
“They work exceptionally well together. That’s a key relation­ship,” Baer said. “I strongly be­lieve Brian and Bruce are the best at their craft in the game, and their track record shows that.” 
The 55-year-old Sabean is the longest-tenured GM in baseball and has said he would like to stay put in San Francisco for the rest of his career. He became the Giants’ GM in 1996 after three years in player personnel. He was in the Yankees organization from 1985-92 as a scout, scouting director and player development director. 
Sabean has a busy stretch ahead before spring training be­gins in February. On Wednesday, his wife, Amanda, is scheduled to give birth to the couple’s second son — the sixth son for Sabean. Then, baseball’s winter meetings begin next week in Dallas. 
The top priority is upgrading the offense while leaving enough payroll flexibility to lock up star pitchers Tim Lincecum and Matt Cain for what Sabean hopes is the long haul. 
“Anything we’re going to do has to fit into a certain price point and give us enough flexibility to do other things,” Sabean said. “Pitching is our gold standard and we’ll do all that we can to take care of that commodity first.” 
Bobby Evans, the team’s vice president of baseball operations and Sabean’s right-hand man, said there have been preliminary conversations with the pitchers’ representatives that he catego­rized as “an exchange of ideas and numbers.” Evans said he expects Lincecum, the two-time NL Cy Young Award winner, to be open to a long-term deal beyond two years. 
“I don’t know how productive it is to get into specifics,” Evans said. “I don’t thinks he’s closed off to anything short or long, per se. I think he’s very comfortable with short, but don’t think he’s closed off to anything long. I think he’s still open to that.” 
Sabean hired the 56-year-old Bochy away from the rival San Diego Padres in 2007 to replace Felipe Alou. 
“I think we have a mutual re­spect. We listen to each other, Brian for me is always available,” Bochy said. “We communicate so much during the course of the season. We stay in the same building. There’s never any kind of distance or separation.” 
Yet there wasn’t immediate success when Bochy arrived, and both men received harsh criticism along the way for moves they made and those they didn’t. 
That all changed when they led the club to an improbable World Series championship in 2010 with a band of “castoffs and misfits” as Bochy called them. 
Baer had expected to get deals done during the offseason to keep both men around for the near future. Sabean and Bochy were instrumental in the team’s World Series title, the first for the fran­chise since moving West in 1958. 
“I don’t take anything for granted. I’m thankful for their re­newed commitment,” Bochy said. 
The Giants went 86-76 for sec­ond place in the NL West and missed the playoffs this year, when they dealt with devastating season-ending injuries to 2010 NL Rookie of the Year catcher Buster Posey and second base­man Freddy Sanchez. 
Baer recently assumed top decision-making duties from outgoing managing partner Bill Neukom, saying, “Brian has seen the operation through all sorts of environments.” 
That included the challenging days with home run king Barry Bonds and the move from Can­dlestick Park to the waterfront spot at 12-year-old AT&T Park. 
“I don’t take the extension lightly,” Sabean said. “Baseball’s a tough game to succeed in. I’m really thankful that I’m one of the original employees of the owner­ship group and as the ownership group changed or morphed, they recognized our commitment and hard work.” 
All-Star slugger Pablo Sandoval is still deciding whether to spend a short stint in his native Ven­ezuela, where Nationals catcher Wilson Ramos was abducted ear­lier this month and then rescued. Sandoval is training for a second straight offseason in Arizona af­ter losing close to 40 pounds last winter. 



Olympics 
continued from page 16 
thereby improve their chances of qualifying for the Olympics. 
The series of World Cup com­petitions are merely the latest stop on the long road to Olympic qualification. 
Top fencers began the process of qualifying at the 2010 World Championships and will follow a regimented schedule of competi­tion until point standings close and zone-qualifying events be­gin in April. 
“The rules for qualifying are complicated, but one can be sure that, in order to get enough points to be a qualifier, they need to compete in as many competi­tions as possible,” Bednarski said. “The fencers will be com­peting the whole year, basically up to the Olympic Games.” 
Even with their individual ac­colades, Notre Dame fencers will face long odds to qualify for an Olympic berth. National teams that qualify for the Olympics are only able to bring three fencers for each team event and individ­ual events likewise only permit a maximum of three fencers from a given country. With such limi­tations in place, the possibility of foilists Meinhardt, DeSmet, and Imboden battling for a spot on the American national team in the Olympics remains wide open. 
Although several important competitions remain, the five Irish fencers striving for the Olympics have found success in national competitions through­out the fall. Imboden and Mein­hardt had the top two finishes among American entrants in the foil competition at the Se­nior World Championships in October, with Imboden finishing eighth in the 64-competitor draw and Meinhardt racking up a 13th place finish. Hurley and Mein­hardt also made strong show­ings in the Pan American Games, with Hurley winning the silver medal in the epee and Meinhardt helping the American team to the gold medal in the team foil event. 
The five current Irish fencers do not represent the entirety of Notre Dame’s Olympic fencing connections, however. Mariel Zagunis, 2010 alumna, will look to expand her legacy as a great American fencer and win her third Olympic gold medal. Fellow 2010 graduate Kelley Hurley will try for a sport on the roster as well, along with high school se­nior Lee Kiefer, who has signed a letter of intent with Notre Dame. 
Bednarski said successful in­ternational showings by Notre Dame fencers simply validate the strength of the team. 
“Every year, we have fencers who are in the position to fight for the national team,” Bednar­ski said. 
While the loss of several top fencers will hamper this year’s Irish team, Bednarski said he feels it will also provide many opportunities for younger fenc­ers to grow and develop. 
“This season is a chance for the younger fencers to show their skills, ambition, and devotion and get more starts,” Bednarski said. “Over the long-term, it will benefit them because they will get to speed up their progress this year. We may now be the un­derdog team, but we are still an underdog who can bite.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 




Reaney 
continued from page 16 
chored the 400m freestyle relay team. Entering the pool with the Irish behind by .10 seconds, Reaney managed to close the gap with a 50.60 second run, the fastest of the race, which was enough to earn the vic­tory for the Irish. 
“I just buried my head and dug down and started to pull as much water as I could and I ended up catching her,” Re­aney said. “It was awesome.” 
Reaney said her focus now is on finishing the season as strongly as she started it and hopefully making the NCAA tournament. Looking even further ahead, Reaney has made the time cut for the Olympic trial in the 100m breaststroke, and said she hopes to qualify for trials in more events. 
“Right now I’m just focus­ing on this summer and ob­viously making NCAAs and swimming there,” Reaney said. “That would be really awesome, to represent Notre Dame at the national level.” 

Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 30, 2011 
Rust, a third-round se-plays. 


Rust 

lection of the Pittsburgh “It’s all about working Penguins in the 2010 NHL hard, making the little continued from page 16 Draft, is placed on the plays, getting pucks out of 
same line as Tynan and the [defensive] zone, get-Rust started the season Lee, forming a potent trio ting pucks into the offen­with an assist in Notre for Notre Dame (10-3-3, sive zone, making hits,” Dame’s 4-3 season-open-7-2-3-0 CCHA). Rust said. ing loss to Minnesota-“T.J. and Anders both Rust, whose brother at-Duluth and chipped in his have great vision and play-tended and played hock-first goal in a tie against making ability,” Jackson ey at Michigan, decided Northern Michigan. said. “[Rust] just has to be to come to Notre Dame in 
He now has five goals at the right place at the part to escape his brother’s and two assists on the right time. He shouldn’t shadow. year. His goal streak is feel like he needs to pass “I had to make my own the longest active streak it all the time, especially if path,” Rust said. “I’ve been on the team. he’s in good scoring areas.” in his shadow in my life. 
“The first few weeks of While some may think Throughout my life, I’ve the season, I wasn’t as playing with talents such been compared to him.” aggressive as I wanted to as Tynan and Lee detracts With his recent streak, be,” Rust said. “I wasn’t from Rust’s opportunities, Rust has begun to make a battling as hard as I knew he said it helps him out. name of his own. I should have.” “It’s actually surpris-“If he gets to the net and 
A year ago, Rust tal-ingly not as tough as you starts getting some con-lied six goals and 13 as-think,” Rust said. “It ac-fidence, [he can be effec­sists while playing in 40 tually gives me more con-tive],” Jackson said. “He of Notre Dame’s 44 games. fidence because they’re has the ability. It’s just a Now, Jackson sees Rust as always going to be there matter of him taking shots a possible secondary scor-making plays. I’ll be able and getting into those dirty er for the No. 2 Irish, who to take my chances.” zones for rebounds and de­possess talented sopho-Rust’s four-game streak flections.” more forwards T.J. Tynan came during one of the Rust will try to extend and Anders Lee. most daunting stretches of his goal streak this week­
“He’s one of them [that Notre Dame’s schedule, a end when the Irish wel­can be a secondary scor-gauntlet that featured four come Northeastern (4-7-2, er],” Jackson said. “These top-15 opponents in eight 3-7-2 Hockey East) to the are all guys that are work-days — with three of them Compton Family Ice Arena. ing hard, they just need on the road. Rust said the kane, Wash. to be in those situations success against the tough where they can score a competition was due to his Contact Matthew DeFranks at goal and take advantage ability to make the small mdefrank@nd.edu 
in their building and it’s a 
of it. There’s a number of 


Gonzaga 
tough atmosphere for us.” 
guys that I feel can con-Brey said the environment 
tribute offensively.” continued from page 16 at McCarthey Athletic Center 
Jackson also said Rust’s will be among the toughest 
production was some-year, that was a great game. the Irish play in this season. 
thing he expected at the [It was] two offensive teams “I told our guys, ‘There 
beginning of the year. that are really good with the won’t be any tougher Big 
“He works as hard as ball. It all starts with [red-East atmosphere than this 
anyone,” Jackson said. shirt senior center Robert] place on Wednesday,’” he 
“He’s prepared to prac-Sacre, and he really both-said. “Again, I’ve never been 
tice every day. I’m glad ered us posting up in the in it, but I’ve seen it on TV 
to see him start to have middle of the lane and de-and people have told me. 
a little success because fending him down low.” “Trying to slow them down 
that’s really what we ex-Brey said he is concerned offensively and with us be­
pected at the start of the with the way his inexperi-ing younger, being poised in 
season.” enced frontcourt will hold that atmosphere and poised up against the seven-foot when Gonzaga makes a run center. … answering when Gonzaga 
“[It’s a] huge challenge for makes a run and can we hang [the frontcourt],” he said. in there and not get frazzled “It goes to the Sacre thing [will be important].” and post position and driv-While Wednesday’s contest ing you deep, balls scream-marks the end of the series ing and rolling down your between the two schools, lane. It’s a great challenge Brey said he has discussed for all three of them, [junior future matchups with Bull-forwards Mike Broghammer, dogs coach Mark Few. Jack Cooley and Tom Knight] “It does end after this year to be ready. It’s the first big but [Few] and I have talked challenge for them.” about down the road start-
Outside of Sacre, the Bull-ing that thing back up in the dogs have several offensive future,” he said. “It won’t be weapons that can pace Gon-in the immediate future of zaga, Brey said. the next year or two I don’t 
“[Junior forward Elias] believe, but that’s something Harris does it from all over we could revisit down the the place,” he said. “[We will road.” try] to slow them down, be-The Bulldogs and Irish cause they’re good with the will tip-off at 11:15 p.m. at ball, they can pass it, they the McCarthey Athletic Cen­know who should shoot it, ter in Spokane, Wash. and they can score it. [Fresh­man guard Kevin Pangos] Contact Andrew Owens at obviously has gotten on runs aowens2@nd.edu 
just the beginning of the Belles’ 


Belles 
conference season, but Henley said the Belles know their road continued from page 16 to success needs to start imme­
diately. prove on the defensive side of “We need to build upon the ball, the Belles’ offense has where we were at last year in been solid this year, averaging the conference,” Henley said. just under 73 points per game. “We were picked third and 
“I’m real happy where our that’s nice, but were not inter-offense is at,” Henley said.  “I ested in third.  We obviously think we can score at any given want to win it and that’s going time, based on the personnel to get started [tonight.]” we have on the floor, but at the The Belles will travel to An-end of the day we have to play gola, Ind. to square off with defense and that’s where we Trine tonight at 7:30 p.m. have been struggling lately for the whole entire game.” Contact Peter Steiner at 
The matchup with Trine is psteiner@nd.edu 




Wednesday, November 30, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 



KELLy LyNCH 
DAVID HOyT 


JUMBLE
CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, November 30, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
HOCKEY 

Sure signs of ‘Rust’ 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
It wasn’t the prettiest goal in the world. But it counted. 
Sophomore right wing Bryan Rust’s overtime win­ner with 1.1 seconds re­maining against Boston Col­lege on Nov. 18 trickled into the net after sneaking past Eagles junior goaltender Parker Milner. Since then, Rust has been riding a four-game goal steak. 
“That was the spark,” Rust said. “I had to get one lucky one in order to start the streak. Hopefully, I can keep it going into Christmas break and hopefully, after­wards too.” 
Both Rust and Irish coach Jeff Jackson attribute the streak to an uptick in con­fidence from the Novi, Mich. native. 
“Confidence is every­thing,” Jackson said. “Once he got that softy against Boston College at a key point in the game, he got a little confidence. He’s starting to play the way I expected him to play at the start of the season.” 
see RUST/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Reaney makes waves in freshman season 
By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
Mere months into her Notre Dame swimming career, freshman Emma Reaney is garnering national attention. 
Reaney was named the Big East Women’s Swimming and Diving Athlete of the Week for the week of Nov. 8 after a terrific performance in a 188-112 loss at Louisville. She won three individual events and anchored the 400m freestyle relay team to victory. The Lawrence, Kan., native said she was overjoyed and surprised by the honor. 
“The whole thing was sur­prising in itself, getting a best time so early in the sea­son,” Reaney said. “Obvious­ly it feels really great and it’s such an honor. It was kind of surprising actually, so early in the season. It was great.” 
The Walsh Hall resident was the only freshman in the field for her wins in the 100m breaststroke and 200m breaststroke. Reaney credited her teammates and coaches for her seamless transition into the collegiate swimming world, saying they have made the adjustment to college much easier for her. 
“They’re my 20 best friends here,” Reaney said. “They have been there through all the transition stages and everything. Swimming is stressful and going to prac­tice you know you’re go­ing to be in pain for the whole time, but you know you’re there with all your best friends. We get along weirdly well for how many girls there are. The coach­es will beg you to help you. They’ll do anything they can to help you improve and make sure you’re do­ing well in college.” 
In the Louisville meet on Nov. 12, Reaney an 
see REANEY/page 13 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary’s set to face Thunder 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After finishing the first part of a tough nonconference schedule, Saint Mary’s will begin conference play tonight against Trine. 
Belles coach Jenn Henley said her squad (2-4) is excited for the conference season to get underway because it rep­resents a fresh start. 
“When you start conference play, it’s a brand new season,” Henley said. “The nonconfer­ence you play up to this point is to prepare you for the start of you conference season. I think that we have definitely had some great opportunities to learn what our weaknesses are and get them fixed very quickly.” 
Facing unbeaten Trine (4­0), the Belles will need a quick turnaround after a pair of losses in this past weekend’s Ohio Northern Thanksgiving Classic. 
“Trine is undefeated right now so they are playing with a lot of confidence,” Henley said. “They have four kids averag­ing double figures in terms of points and I think they are go­ing to look to beat us from the outside with their guard play.” 
The Thunder are led by se­nior guard Danielle Senf, a second team All-MIAA selec­tion last year. Henley said the Belles know they will have to step up on defense against a talented group of Thunder guards. 
“We’ve got to play defense for 40 minutes,” she said. “That’s been our focus for a while now. We are getting better, but we need to sustain it for an entire game, not just a half.” 
While the Belles hope to im 
see BELLES/page 14 
FENCING 
Roster takes hit due to Olympics schedule 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame, competing on a national stage is noth­ing new, as the Irish claimed the NCAA Championship last spring. This year, however, five members of the team will seek to showcase their talents in a different way as they pursue a spot in the 2012 Summer Olym­pics in London. 
“All of our fencers who have a chance to qualify for the Olym­pics from their national and international point standings are taking the year off because of conflicts between the NCAA and Olympic schedules,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
For the Irish, this means the loss of several top fenc­ers, including senior foilist Ge­rek Meinhardt, senior epeeist Courtney Hurley, senior epeeist Ewa Nelip, sophomore foilist Ariel DeSmet and freshman foilist Race Imboden. These fencers are currently forgoing a year fencing at Notre Dame to compete in a series of World Cup competitions as they seek to boost their rankings and 
see OLYMPICS/page 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish hit the road to face Gonzaga 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish face Gonzaga in their first true road game of the season today after snap­ping their two-game losing streak Sunday against Bry­ant. 
Notre Dame (5-2) and No. 18 Gonzaga (4-0) will com­pete in the second half of a home-and-home series, the first of which the Irish claimed at Purcell Pavilion, 83-79, in 2010. 
“[Gonzaga is] such a tal­ented offensive team,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “You think about our game last 
see GONZAGA/page 14 







