the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Grabosky runs for prayers 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Jeff Grabosky took a pit-stop at campus this week­end as he continues a cross -country run with only basic essentials in a baby jogger and a rosary. 
“From an athletic per­spective, I have run marathons and a couple hundred -milers, so this seemed like the big next step,” he said. “I coupled that with my personal life where prayer is really important.” 
While faith always played a large role in his family, Grabosky, a 2005 Notre Dame graduate, said he felt the power of prayer most during a difficult period of his life in 2006. 
“My mom passed away, and my wife walked out on me. I was left with every­thing I had in my car for a couple months,” he said. “Prayer is all I had.” 
During his break on cam­pus, friends hosted a prayer service with 
see RUN/page 5 



Holy Half benefits locals 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer Runners competed in the Holy Half Marathon Sunday. This year’s race focused on who participants were running for and donations went to local South Bend charities. 
Orleans and the theme has from friends’ suggestions and 
By ANNA BOARINI 

been New Orleans too,” sen-narrowed it down to a few, 
News Writer 

ior and race director Gabby which we presented to all 
Tate said. “This year we four class councils,” senior 
The theme of Sunday’s sixth wanted to do something dif-and race director Sean annual Holy Half Marathon ferent and get more people Kickham said. “They voted asked participants, “Who are involved from South Bend and and those are the charities you running for?” In that out of the Notre Dame bub-that the money will go to.” spirit, race organizers hoped ble.” This year’s race will benefit the thousands of participants Working with the theme, the South Bend Center for the would think beyond their own the directors decided to focus Homeless, St. Adalbert ele­training, to others. the fundraising efforts on mentary school and Michiana 
“The past few years, the local charities. money has all gone to New “We came up with a list see HOLY/page 5 


Moms visit daughters during weekend events 

By CECILIA GLOVER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s juniors got to spend quality time with their moms during Junior Mom’s Junior Mom’s Weekend since the beginning of the year. It is one of the main events of junior year and a very special tradition at Saint Mary’s College,” junior board member Hannah Hupp said. “There are a lot of times families come to campus, but 
Weekend  Friday  through  
Sunday.  
”We  have  been  planning  


see WEEKEND/page 5 


O.A.R. creates waves Friday 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 

Nearly 2,000 students kicked off their weekend by rocking out to hip-hop duo Chiddy Bang and jam band Of A Revolution (O.A.R.) at the Student Union Board (SUB) spring concert Friday night. 
SUB concert programmer Matt Stolze said SUB initially planned to sell 1,100 tickets to students, but the overwhelming student demand for tickets prompted SUB to sell more tickets. 
“We worked with campus offi­cials to increase the number of tickets sold,” Stolze said. “I’m happy to say that after this increase, we sold approximately 1,940 tickets.” 
Chiddy Bang opened the con­cert for an enthusiastic Stepan Center crowd, playing new songs in addition to their most popular single, “Opposite of Adults.” 
Freshman Bobby Hess said he thought the audience reacted favorably to Chiddy Bang’s per­formance. 
“I felt that most of the popula­tion at the concert was looking forward to Chiddy Bang more than O.A.R.,” he said. “Everyone was really excited at the end when they [Chiddy Bang] came 


Tourney honors student 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 

Behind Keenan Hall Saturday afternoon, more than four dozen Keenan residents played basket­ball in memory of Sean Valero. 
The inaugural Keenan Klassic, a two-on-two basketball tourna­ment, shifted its focus from a South Bend charity to remember­ing Valero after the sophomore was found dead March 31. 
Sophomore Ryan Dunbar helped found the event with class­mates Gabe De Vela, Stephen Schwaner and Preston Scott and said the tournament was a great way to honor Valero. The sopho­more was found dead March 31. 
“It was great to come together and remember a friend and have a fun day of community, having fun and donating money for a good cause,” he said. 
Dunbar said the tournament had 27 teams, raising $270. He said the funds would most likely go toward planting a tree with a rock and plaque near Keenan to remember Valero. 
“The guys in Keenan wanted to have a memorial for Sean,” Dunbar said. “The tournament 
see KEENAN/page 4 

back on stage to play with O.A.R.” 
Students agreed that Chiddy Bang’s collaborative finale on O.A.R.’s fan favorite “That Was a 
see O.A.R./page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Lacrosse plays for peace page 3  Viewpoint page 6  OAR performs at Stepan page 8  Floyd meets with ResLife page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, April 11, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Andrew Gastelum Nicole Toczauer Matthew Robison Tori Roeck Jack Hefferon 

Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Ankur Chawla 

Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 
Question: What superpower do you wish you had? Johnny: The ability to fly, because then I wouldn’t have to walk. 
Q: 
Which Disney prince do you most resemble? Johnny: I actually resemble Ariel. My room looks like her treasure cove. 

Q: 
Who was your first crush? Johnny: Amanda Bynes because she was the cutest per­son on the Amanda Bynes Show! She was awesome in that. 


Q: 
Who would you like to arm wrestle? Johnny: Father Jenkins 

Q: 
Which country would you like to own? Johnny: Probably the United States because it’s BA. 

Q: 
What is the one thing that everyone should know about you? Johnny: The interesting thing is I’m not a role model. I’m a jeans model. 




Johnny Romano 
freshman Dillon 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Zahm sophomore Jimmy Vowers prepares for a pass in the seven-on-seven inter-hall lacrosse tournament Sunday. The interhall tournament followed a men’s lacrosse game, part of Playing for Peace, which benefits Sudan. 
OFFBEAT 

Police in Thailand seize smuggled monitor lizards 
BANGKOK — Authorities in Thailand have seized 1,800 monitor lizards being smuggled on pick­up trucks to the capital. 
Customs officials say the Bengal monitor lizards were hidden in mesh bags and stashed in open containers behind boxes of fruit in three pickup trucks. They were seized Thursday at a checkpoint in southern Thailand. 
Customs Department chief Prasong Poontaneat said Friday he suspects the lizards were destined to be eaten. He said their meat sells for $7.50-$15 per pound ($16-$33 per 
Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 

Dr. Tracy E. Cooper, Professor of Italian and Southern Renaissance and Baroque art and architecture in the Department of Art History at Temple University, will give a lecture today titled, “Palladio’s Venice: Politics of the Classical,” in Bond Hall at 
4:30 p.m. The talk will cover the topics presented in her book Palladio’s Venice: Architecture and Society in a Renaissance Republic. 
The Center for Social Concerns will be sponsoring its annual Ganey Research Awards Dinner today at 5:30 
p.m. in the Jordan Hall of Science. The dinner will recog­nize campus and community research partners. 
The 2011 Art Battle will take place in LaFortune Student Center today at 5:30 p.m. Artists will be given 30 min­utes to create a piece based on the theme: What does identity mean to you? Artwork will be displayed in the Sorin Room from 7:30 pm to 9:30 pm Tuesday for students to vote for the winners. Entry fees are $5 for individuals and $10 for teams up to three. 
The final round of the Chesterton Rhetoric Competition will take place tonight in Geddes Hall at 7:30 
p.m. Graduate students from a broad range of departments will give eight to 12 minute orations and will be judged on profundity and creativity of argument, clarity of reasoning and beauty of expression. The first prize winner will receive $400 and the second prize winner will receive $100. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 

kilogram) in China, mak­ing them worth more than $60,000. 
International trade in the reptiles is banned. In Thailand, illegal sale of wildlife carries a penalty 
of up to four years in prison and a fine of $1,300. 
Man arrested for taking over Pennsylvania house 
MURRYSVILLE, Pa. — A man has been jailed on charges that he took up resi­dence in a $500,000 western Pennsylvania home without the owner’s permission. 
Frederick Harris III, of Wilmerding, remained in the Westmorland County Prison Friday on burglary, criminal trespass and criminal mis­chief charges filed Wednesday when Murrysville police say they found him in the home. 
Police say the 43-year-old Harris had toured the home with a real estate agent who refused to give him keys. He later broke a window, pulled up the ‘for sale’ sign and moved in anyway. Police were alerted when a caretak­er noticed someone in the house. 
Police Chief Thomas Seefeld tells the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review that Harris’ “car was in the garage. He had personal items in the home. He basically was mak­ing a home there.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight tuesday wednesday 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, April 11, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Playing for Peace raises awareness 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame men’s lacrosse team furthered its social justice initiative with a Playing for Peace game followed by an interhall tournament Sunday. 
Kevin Dugan, director of Men’s Lacrosse Operations, said they held the tournament to show Notre Dame’s unceasing support of Sudan. The initiative began “The announcers talked about Playing for Peace and Sudan for two minutes and that surely helped to raise awareness.” 

At halftime, students at the game went onto the field and formed a human peace sign around the field’s interlocking ND logo. They then prayed for Sudan, turning the stadium from a venue for athletics to a venue for social concerns advocacy. 
The team also recognized the organizations that have support­
ed Playing for 
Peace at halftime, 
“We want there to be 
fall semester such as Catholic with a three-on-a continuous call to Relief Services three basketball and Adidas. 
awareness on the 
tournament and After the game 
situation in Sudan.” 
Stand with ended, eight Sudan peace men’s and two rally. Kevin Dugan women’s interhall 
“It’s a follow-teams competed 
director 
up to make sure in a seven-on­
men’s lacrosse operations 
we didn’t just seven lacrosse 
“This was just an awesome day,” he said. “We got to cheer on our No. 2-ranked team, had a huge student prayer at halftime at midfield, got to play lacrosse ourselves, all while raising awareness for an important cause.” 
St. Edward’s captain Quinn Kilpatrick said his team’s moti­vation to participate was two­fold. 
“It’s obviously a great cause, and we also wanted to get some practice in before the big inter-hall season starts up,” he said. 
For Pangborn captain Rachel Kalinoski, the best aspect of the tournament was the combina­tion of playing a game she enjoys. 
“I know our whole team really enjoyed the tournament and we hope to play again next year,” she said. 
The Playing for Peace initiative has truly infused the lacrosse program with the ethos of Notre Dame, Dugan said. 
“We have made new friends all over campus at the Kroc Institute, the Center for Social Concerns, the Ford Program, RecSports, Campus Ministry, stu­dent government, Play Like A Champion and the general stu­dent body,” he said. 
Dugan said the game had a tremendously high student turnout. 
“The student response was so encouraging. It was great to see the men’s basketball team come out to support the event and our team as well,” he said. “There was a real spirit of community at the game — everyone was there to support an important cause and to cheer on their team, it was a special Notre Dame moment.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
have this one event in the fall and check it off the list of things to do,” he said. “We want there to be a continu­ous call to awareness on the sit­uation in Sudan.” 
Dugan said they specifically selected the Georgetown game for the high level of publicity. 
“We chose the Georgetown game because we knew it was going to be nationally televised and that we would be able to get the message out about Sudan to a national TV audience,” he said. 

tournament. The teams played 25 minute games refereed by men’s lacrosse play­ers. 
Duncan’s team defeated St. Edwards with a score of 7-5 in the men’s championship. In the women’s, Pangborn beat Ryan 6­4. 
Sophomore Brian Benedict, who scored three goals for Duncan in the championship game, said the tournament and overall initiative was a major success for the lacrosse team. 

SMC volunteers with Rebuilding 
Saint Mary’s Office for Civic and 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 

Social Engagement, said Saint 
News Writer 

Mary’s has sponsored a house for this event for the past seven years. 
Saint Mary’s students, faculty As a house sponsor, Saint Mary’s and even a few mothers set their donates $3,500 toward repairs of alarm clocks a little earlier the house and provides volunteers Saturday in order to volunteer for the day, Call said. from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the South Around 50 Saint Mary’s students Bend community as part of the worked on the west side of South Rebuilding Together project. Bend on Albert Street repairing 
“The goal of Rebuilding three houses by painting and Together is to repair low-income removing shutters and house homes and revitalize neighbor-numbers in order to make way for hoods,” Saint Mary’s junior Cat newer fixtures. Cleary said. Three students, juniors Laura 
Carolyne Call, the director of Glaub and Cat Cleary and sopho­more London Lamar, said they did not mind waking up early to help with the event. 

“Even though I had to wake up early on a Saturday after a long school week, the greater feeling was knowing I was giving back to someone who was in need,” Lamar said. “Every stroke of color that was painted on the house was a stroke of love.” 
Since Rebuilding Together coin­cided with Saint Mary’s Junior Mom’s Weekend, some of the par­ticipants enlisted their mom’s help with the project. 
“My mother and I wanted to do something different that would be fun together,” Glaub said. 
Glaub and her mother removed house numbers and shutters, and Cleary and her mother repainted a shed. 
“It was worth [getting up]. Saturday morning at 7:00 a.m. I did look at my mom and say, ‘Let’s go back to bed.’ But coming home at 1:30 p.m., we talked about how much it was worth it,” Glaub said. “I made new friends and new memories doing projects I never thought I could do. I have so much appreciation for anyone who is able to take window shutters off.” 
All the girls said they hope to see the program grow in the future, including Glaub. 
“More days. More weekends. I love it,” Glaub said. 
Cleary noted the importance of students giving back to the com­munity. 
“I continue to participate in Rebuilding Together year after year because it is a wonderful way for our college to acknowledge that we do not live independent of the South Bend community and that we have a responsibility to help all of our neighbors,” she said. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousley@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 11, 2011 

Keenan 
continued from page 1 
was a way to commemorate a friend and bring in some funds for the memorial.” 
Basketball was the perfect way to honor Valero after an emotion­ally challenging week, Schwaner said. 
“The tournament was great, we had great participation. It was a beautiful day and everyone had a great time,” he said. “It felt good to be able to commemorate Sean with a fun, upbeat event after the last week of grief and mourning.” 
Keenan rector Fr. Dan Nolan said the event helped members of the residence hall heal emotional­ly. 
“The tournament has been a way for the guys to honor Sean and work through their grief, and feel like they are accomplishing something,” he said. 
Dunbar said he hopes the tour­nament becomes an annual tradi­tion for Keenan Hall to raise money for a variety of causes. He said he and his friends were inspired to create the event with the recent addition of a basketball hoop to the residence hall. 
“My roommates and I thought it would be a neat idea to put together a basketball tourna­ment. We wanted to also use this as an opportunity to help out those who are less fortunate,” Dunbar said. “There are many charities out there, and they all need donations. We didn’t want to limit this tournament to donating money to the same charity every year because other charities are just as deserving.” 
Dunbar said every year partici­pants would have the opportunity to choose where funds raised through the event will go. 
“We would provide a list of charities that we would want to receive our donations, and then we would basically leave it up to the guys who are giving the money to decide where it goes,” he said. “This also would lead to the possibility of donating to dif­ferent charities every year as a way to spread the wealth.” 
Dunbar said when residents were presented with charity options this year, the overwhelm­ing response was to use the funds to commemorate Valero. 
“To hear the guys say over and over that they wanted the tourna­ment to donate to the memorial spoke volumes about the types of guys here at Notre Dame and the sense of community really pres­ent in the dorm life at Keenan,” he said. 
Dunbar said he and the other co-founders of the Klassic kept the event within Keenan for the first year. He said future install­ments may feature other male dorms participating, or adding a co-ed tournament. 
“We’re going to try and expand a little year by year, possibly get­ting some local sponsors down the road,” he said. 
Scott said there was an amaz­ing response from Keenan resi­dents, which speaks positively to the future of the event. 
“This year’s tournament had a great turnout, but I think it will only get better with time,” he said. “We had a lot of guys saying they wish they’d signed up this year and that they can’t wait until next year.” 
In addition to participating in the tournament, Dunbar said Keenan residents supported their friends who played. 
“Everyone who participated had a good time,” he said. “I know a lot of people who had rooms with a view of the court who even watched.” 

Dunbar said the response to the event as both a charity fundraiser and a means of commemorating Valero has been incredible. 
“I’ve had a lot of people come up and say it was neat to put on this tournament. I think it was just great with the tournament raising money for charity in gen­eral and to do a good deed to remember our friend Sean,” he said. “Both aspects of the tourna­ment seemed to commemorate Sean.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
O.A.R. 
continued from page 1 

Crazy Game of Poker” was the highlight of the night. 
Senior Julie McCaw said she also enjoyed Chiddy Bang’s initial performance and their surprise appearance at the end of the show. 
“They brought a lot of energy to the stage which helped get the crowd into their music,” she said. “One of my favorite parts was when they took words and phras­es from people in the crowd and then freestyled.” 
Headliners O.A.R. followed Chiddy Bang with an engaging performance that exceeded the audience’s expectations. 
“[O.A.R.] was so much better live than I was expecting them to be,” sophomore Caroline Lennon said. “I didn’t go to the SUB con­cert last year, so I had low expec­tations for the show being in Stepan [Center], but both acts were really good. It was a good scene.” 
Sophomore Kat Wilson said she had seen O.A.R. perform live before Friday’s show, and this show compared favorably with her previous experience. 
“They were just as good as the time I saw them before, but it was cool that all of my friends were there with me,” Wilson said. “They did a good job of pulling off the show in Stepan, and I really liked that everyone was so close to the stage.” 
McCaw had also attended an 
O.A.R. concert in the past, but she said this concert was enjoyably different. 
“In both concerts they played some of my favorite songs, like ‘About an Hour Ago,’ but [O.A.R.] sounded different both times,” she said. “I love the way O.A.R. changes up the way they play their songs every concert, so overall it was really good.” 
Although students who had seen either group perform prior to Friday’s concert expressed more enthusiasm for the per­formances, both acts also appealed to audience members who were not die-hard fans before the show. 
“Even though I’m not really familiar with O.A.R. and didn’t know all the songs, I just had a great time with my friends,” sophomore Katie Fuentes said. “[Chiddy Bang and O.A.R.] kept the concert going, so it was really fun.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Monday, April 11, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Run 
continued from page 1 
Grabosky at the Grotto Saturday, and he addressed runners at the Holy Half Marathon Sunday. Notre Dame played a large role in his spiritual development, Grabosky said. 
“Growing up, I didn’t really have any points where my faith was tested. I think [Notre Dame] was a way with daily Masses and the great friends and support I had, with the spiritual aspects of campus and hav­ing priests all around, to lay my base and solid founda­tion,” he said. “So later when the storm hit, God was my rock. I was able to go through whatever was being thrown my way.” 
Grabosky began his jour­ney Jan. 20 in Oceanside, Ca., and he plans to com­plete the run mid -May in Long Island, N.Y., after run­ning roughly 3,700 miles on back roads and highway shoulders. 
“There is no place I would rather be than the path God has laid out for me, and that’s where I feel I am,” he said. “It just shows that God can do amazing things out of terrible circumstances … I’m trying to promote people making time in their daily lives for God.” 
Grabosky quit his job at a running store in Washington, D.C., in order to train and plan his run across America. 
“It was kind of a logistical nightmare to train for it and properly plan for it,” he said. 
Grabosky runs with 70 to 80 pounds of supplies for his trip in the baby jogger. A support team or fellow run­ners do not travel with him, so he carries a tent, sleeping bag, clothes, medical sup­plies, food and water. 
“I run as much as 60 miles in a day,” he said. “I think I would go crazy if I didn’t have something to keep me 
occupied like prayer ... I don’t listen to music or an iPod so that prayer really fills that void.” 
Grabosky said he mapped his route so he could visit friends and family on his short stops throughout the country, but he also met peo­ple throughout his journey who supported him. 
“The people I have met really have been the biggest thing for me,” he said. “We look at the media and the news, and basically we can believe terrible people are everywhere out there. But I met so many supportive peo­ple, … people who did not have much but wanted to share with me the little they did have. It really makes me want to be a better person.” 
Throughout the journey, Grabosky said he receives prayer requests from across the country and prays decades of the rosary for each request. 
“As far as getting through it, I compare this to daily life struggles that people deal with, whether they are financial problems or marital problems or health related,” he said. “They get up and battle anyway. That is my motivation to get through my struggles every day.” 


Grabosky said he begins each day with a prayer to St. Michael the Archangel and follows with personal peti­tions and the prayer inten­tions he receives through his website. 
“I’m just asking people for intentions, not money,” he said. “I still have a long way to go, and I can never have too many requests.” 
Petition requests can be submitted on www.jeffrun­samerica.com and through the run’s Facebook page. 
“I’m hoping that this shows to others that anything is possible when God is involved,” he said. “That will make me feel like this run is a success.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Saturday night. A silent auction also took place Saturday night 
Weekend 

during the dinner at the Hilton, 
continued from page 1 

this is a great opportunity for just mothers and daughters to spend some quality time togeth­er and enjoy a fun-filled week­end.” 
A wine and cheese reception in Haggar Parlor was held Friday from 5 to 8 p.m. to kick off the weekend 
consisting of items such as a Kate Spade necklace, Coach bag and Tiffany & Co. necklace. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney spoke Saturday night at the Junior Mom’s dinner at the Hilton Garden Inn. 
“President Carol Ann Mooney’s speech at the dinner was very touching and set the 
mood for the 
celebration. A night,” junior 
morning work-“It was really nice Kristen Figari out of yoga and spending time with said. “I loved pilates was held how she talked 
my mom by
Saturday at about the rela-
Angela Athletic participating in the tionship between 
Facility, followed events and having mothers and daughters. That 
by a light lunch her see what my life
and shopping is something you 
is like at Saint can only 
mall in the talk Student Center Mary’s.” about at an all-and afternoon women’s school. tea in The The whole din-
Alex Mirandola Mullen
Reidinger ner was very 
junior
House. special.” 
“It was really Le Mans Junior Mom’s nice spending Weekend ended time with my Sunday with “A mom by participating in the day to be spent with your events and having her see what daughter,” according to the my life is like at Saint Mary’s,” schedule. Whether it was walk-junior Alex Mirandola Mullen ing around the beautiful cam-said. “I loved getting to know pus of Saint Mary’s or going out my friend’s to eat at a moms better favorite restau­
too. It was so  “President Carol Ann  rant, Sunday was  
nice to relax and  a day meant for  
enjoy the events  Mooney’s speech at  mothers and  
that were  the dinner was very  daughters to  
planned for us.”  touching and set the  enjoy together.  
Hupp, who  “This is a great  
was in charge of  mood for the night.”  w e e k e n d  
organizing the  because you get  
shopping mall  Kristen Figari  to meet all of  
portion of Junior  junior  your daughter’s  
Mom’s Weekend,  friends and their  
said companies  Holy Cross  parents who you  
including Love  have heard so  
Always Jewelry,  much about,”  

Twist O’ Luck Soda and Inspire said Liz Headd, mom to College Me! had wares for sale at the junior Allyson Headd. “I had a mall. great time and I look forward to 
Mass was celebrated in The seeing everyone again at gradu-Church of Our Lady of Loretto at ation.” Saturday afternoon, followed by a cocktail hour and closing din-Contact Cecilia Glover at ner at the Hilton Garden Inn cglove01@saintmarys.edu 
said. “He finished in front of “I thought it went really 
me, when I crossed the finish well, and had a great turnout,” 
line, he went down on one Kissling said. “ The best part continued from page 1 knee and was there waiting for me was running around 
for me. It was really special South Quad because that is Down Syndrome, a local family and really person-where there support and advocacy group. al, since running is is always a Runners can choose what my thing.” lot of peo­charity their run will benefit. The proposal was “I thought the race ple.“ 
Last year, the Holy Half made even more went really well and Anna raised $15,000 for the special by the pres-S v e n s s o n 
Holy 

had a great turnout.” 
Brodamore Improvement ence of Raymond said she is Association, which benefits and Salyer’s new to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. friends. Anna Svensson Holy Half. This year, the organizers said One of junior The junior they hoped to surpass last Raymond’s friends played a var-
McGlinn
year’s total. even held the ring sity sport in 
Even though the race is a during the race high school large fundraiser, this year the and made a quick and dances directors wanted to make the handoff before Salyer crossed with the pom squad on cam-race more of an event, with the finish line. pus and decided to give the more activities than just the Salyer said she hopes that half marathon a try. run. she and Raymond will be able “I thought that the race went 
“We’re having more food, a to come back after they gradu-really well and had a great costume contest, award cere-ate and run the Holy Half turnout, “Svensson said. “The mony and free massages at the again, but that all depends on biggest challenge for me was end of the race where they are the heat. I trained in much for runners, “ living. colder weather and I had to 
“We’re having more 
Tate said. “Colin’s in stop more, around the water 
While the food, a costume Army ROTC and breaks, due to exhaustion race is a contest, award we don’t know from the heat.” f u n d r a i s i n g where we will Svensson trained using a
ceremony and free
event, what live, but I’m schedule she found online for drives it are the massages at the end sure sometime rookie half marathon runners runners. This of the race for we will come and said it was helpful, espe­year, Saint back for it,” she cially since she did not know 
runners.” 
Mary’s senior said. when a runner should reach Catie Salyer Junior Pat their peak mileage. had a very spe-Gabby Tate Kissling ran his “The schedule was really cial race, senior second Holy encouraging and helpful,” thanks to her Half, running for Svensson said. “I feel like if I boyfriend, sen-the Center for would have followed it more ior Colin Raymond, and a spe-the Homeless. Kissling said he closely, I would have done bet­cial finish line question. is a regular runner that ter.” 
“We ran the whole race trained casually and would together, and helped and sup-absolutely participate in the Contact Anna Boarini at ported each other,” Salyer event again. aboarini@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, April 11, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Trojan love 
It all started at 10:22 a.m. on Feb. 29, 1992 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. 
It was Leap Day in Los Angeles, and Kimberly Llorens had just given birth to her prodigy, Adam Llorens. 
OK, so that lead may sound a tad haughty, but I’ll cut to the point of this column. One of the most impor­tant moments in an infant’s life is the first shirt put Adam Llorens on his or her back. 

Sports 
For many of 

Production Editor 
you, this shirt was perhaps col­ored blue and gold and featured the timeless “ND” interlocking emblem on the front. 
This was not the case for me. 

I come from “the dark side” as it is perhaps identified here on campus, for my father is an alumnus of the University of Southern California, and proud of it. And so, it would only be natural for his first and only son to wear the colors of cardinal and gold. 
And so it began. I was an official member of the Trojan family and embraced every aspect of it. 
As time progressed, I soon became a super fan of USC athletics, in particu­lar the football squad, which was in the midst of one of their all-time pinna­cles throughout my adolescent years. 
In fact, some of my favorite child­hood memories revolve around SC foot­ball. Among others, watching Carson Palmer and the Men of Troy destroy Iowa 38-17 in the 2002 Orange Bowl and idolizing Matt Leinart in his 2004 Heisman campaign as the boys beat up on Oklahoma in the BCS title game to win the national championship. 
But none of these compared to the fascinating events of October 15, 2005 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Backed up against the wall, Leinart converted a pass to Dwayne Jarrett on a fourth-and-nine situation to put the Trojans deep into Irish territory late in the fourth quarter. 
Then the improbable happened. 
It was the only time I had ever prayed for a football play in my life. 
“God, if there’s anything I ever have asked of you, please let SC score a touchdown here.” 
Leinart answered my call, valiantly plunging his way into the end zone for a Trojan touchdown. 
“Conquest” was ringing throughout the Llorens household. 
Now, please don’t be offended by this column, for many of you are guilty of the same “crime.” I see plenty of stu­dents donning the gear of their home­town collegiate team, schools that even perhaps their parents attended, yet you do not receive ridicule for your blasphemous attire choices. 
I am simply here to state that for the rest of my life, a sliver of cardinal and gold blood will always circulate through my system. 
Alongside Michael, another Trojan friend of mine in Knott, it is safe to say that we feel welcomed into the Notre Dame family. 
We just want our family to appreciate our affection for Traveler and Tommy Trojan. 
So don’t judge. Respect the team I spent the first 18 years of my life ador­ing. 
And, as always, Fight On ND. 

The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
“Ayecha” or “Where are you?” was the first question asked in the Bible. Seemingly, it should be a question from Adam: “Where are you, my God? What am I doing here? Where am I?” Instead, however, God asked the question. Did God not know where Adam was? God knew; Adam did not. Adam needed the question to bring him to understand where he was, Alex Coccia not physically, but in relation to Shard of God. The question Glass “Where are you?” is a humbling one, and one that we should ask our­selves on a regular basis. It can be used to assess where we stand in rela­tion to our God, our faith, our country, our school, our work, our family, our friends or ourselves. The concept of sacrifice is pivotal and instrumental in the attempt to understand where we are. The most valuable possession we own is our time, and when we decide to give our time to someone other than ourselves, it is easier to reflect upon these relationships and to really know where we are. 

Lenten sacrifice is an important way for Catholics to become grounded in their understanding of where they stand in their faith. The sacrifice sym-
Ayecha? 
bolizes the sacrifice that Jesus made by dying on the cross and absolving the sins of the world. The sacrifice they make during Lent is a reminder of the greater picture. 
Sacrifice, however, is not for God: It must be for others first, God second. “Truly I tell you, whatever you did not do for one of the least of these, you did not do for me” (Matthew 25:45). Even Jesus places himself after others. Our commitment to others grounds us in the world we call home. Another ques­tion asked in the Bible is “Am I my brother’s keeper?” The answer is undeniably, “yes,” but the dilemma is whether or not we show we are by our actions. For those who believe in God, sacrifice brings them closer to Him through others, grounding believers in their faith. However, for both those who do believe in a god and for those who do not, sacrifice brings them to a better understanding of themselves and their relationship to others. For both, the call to their brothers and sis­ters is the same. In answering the question “Am I my brother’s keeper?” we should respond with a resounding, “Yes!” “I do not believe you,” the skep­tic will say. “Then I shall show you,” we respond. 
One of the reasons sacrifice for oth­ers grounds us in our world and our understanding of ourselves is due to the fact that no one ever explicitly asks us, “Are you your brother’s keeper?” When we ask ourselves this question and when we answer it with our actions, we are silently and humbly becoming closer to those around us — humble before our God, humble before our fellow brothers and sisters. The similarity between those who believe in God and those who do not comes in the dedication to others. We find ourselves in others. If there is ever a time to believe that God does not exist, it is the moment that we see the suffering in the world and we must believe that we are the only ones who can help, who will bring change for the better. In those moments, the sacrifices we make fulfill our moral obligation as our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers. So sac­rifice can be spiritual, but it is also practical and humanizing. 
Combining the aspects of sacrifice and grounding leaves us with the ques­tion “Where am I?” and the answer “I am my brother’s keeper.” For where-we-are and who-we-are so closely con­nect in all aspects of our lives — our relationships with ourselves, our brothers and sisters and our god of our understanding. Who we are deter­mines where we are. Acting as our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers estab­lishes us as those who when asked “Ayecha?” can answer completely, in truth to ourselves, in the midst of oth­ers, and under the beauty of heaven. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you planning for the Blue and Gold game? 
Go to the game Who cares about football? Drink all day Study for final exams 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“The more I study religions themore I am convinced that man never worshipped anythingbut himself.” 
Sir Richard Francis Burton British explorer & orientalist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, April 11, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Final Four memories 
Thank you to all of you who supported our team this year, and especially those of you who made the trip to Indianapolis to see us play in the Final Four. 
There are some moments in your life that you will always treas­ure, and for me, walking onto the court for the national champi­onship game and seeing all of the Irish fans, especially the hun­dreds of students filling the rafters at Conseco Fieldhouse, was one of those special moments. 
I am really proud of my team and what they accomplished this year, but the thing that made it so special was to have all of you there to share in our journey. It really meant a lot to all of us to hear “We Are ND” as the final seconds ticked off the clock. I was never so proud to be a part of the Notre Dame family. 
Thank you and GO IRISH! 

Muffet McGraw 
Head Coach Notre Dame Women’s Basketball Team April 8 
Education for all 
As an alumnus of Notre Dame’s Alliance for Catholic Education and a committed advocate for school reform, I encourage all stu­dents to attend this Wednesday’s Notre Dame Forum “The System: Opportunity, Crisis and Obligation in K-12 Education.” The topic and field of education is unique in that in one way or another it affects every member of our society. Whether with regards to American innovation, the fight for social justice or concerns over national security, no other issue is as central to the success of our republic quite like education. 
As an institution, Our Lady’s University has done much to bring to the forefront problems that face our educational system today. It has fought for the place of our Catholic schools within the system by fighting for the rights of parents to choose where their children attend school, as well as advocating for better efficiency and inno­vation in both private and public schooling systems. Through the work of ACE and the Institute for Educational Initiatives, Notre Dame is leading the fight in higher education with regards to edu­cation equality. 
It is no surprise to me then that Notre Dame has such an esteemed panel for this Wednesday’s forum. The four panelists, which include former D.C. Chancellor Michelle Rhee and school choice innovator Howard Fuller, will open your eyes to the impor­tance of changing the way our country does education. 
I wish I could attend such a wonderful forum. I encourage you to be a part of this conversation beginning Wednesday, April 13th. It is one that requires our attention. 
God bless the continued work in education of Notre Dame, the Institute for Educational Initiatives, and the Alliance for Catholic Education. 
alumnus Class of 2007 April 10 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


#hashtags 
#dearnotredameicouldnthelpbutnoticetheincreasingtrendofthehashtagonface-bookandtwitternowilladmitthatiusethehashtagandamevenguiltyofpromotingtrending-topicslikeyouknowyougangstawhenandglencocohowevericouldnthelpbutnoticeitsinfil-trationintomynontwitterdrivenlifenamelyinmsguidrysviewpointonthursdaywhich-mashedthreewordsintooneentitledleggingsforlifehowdoyouexpectmetoclickonthisand-seeifitstrendingafinalnotetoeveryoneifyoudousethehashtagpleasechooseyourword-scarefullyrememberingthatwithnospacesbetweenyourwordsyourtagscouldbemisinter-pretedwhichirecentlysawinatweetfollowedbythefivewordedhashtagmymindisateasein­terpretthatasyouwill 
Sean Leyes 
junior Carroll Hall April 7 
Kicking up a hullaballoo 
Dearest Domers, 

In the past week, a great deal of discourse has been dispensed over the topic of fash­ion and personal style and self respect and their interrelatedness. However, in these many extremely academic commentaries we have, as a community, failed to address something at the root of the issue: How did leggings become a viable pants-replace­ment option in the fashion world? Fellow academics, we are indeed skirting the real question: What philosophical, historical and social constructs motivated the world’s fashion leaders to dress women as bourgeois men of the late Italian renaissance? As an added benefit to our mental exertions, by examining these issues we may even extrapo­late future women’s fashion trends — we have recently had pointy shoes, billowy blous­es, and skintight leggings; should we soon expect flat hats and codpieces? 
Ever-so-sincerely, 

Karen Krog 
senior Breen Phillips Hall April 8 
UWIRE 

Ditch trashy stars for those with talent 
As someone who writes for the Arts sec-chemically proven to kill brain cells (for tion, I rarely get the opportunity to be open-example, Syfy’s “Danger Mouse vs. The Lab ly militant about particular issues. Today, I Rats”). As I can attest after watching “The am up in arms over an arts issue. Room” for the first time this weekend, 
Rutgers University drew attention this watching overtly stupid things is massively week for paying entertaining. But if we’re going to demon­“Jersey Shore” star strate outrage over something like Rutgers’
Ryan Book 

Nicole “Snooki” absurd display of celebrity proclivity, we 

Polizzi $32,000 to have to do it actively. 

What’s your excuse for having not read speak at the uni-
John Clark 
versity last Thursday. You don’t need to be Suze Orman to realize this was a bad deal, but it gets worse. The school is paying Nobel-laureate writer Toni Morrison $30,000 to speak at its spring commencement in May. 
I could tell you that this is a crying shame, but that’s the obvious argument. So, I’m going to explain to you why this is our fault. 
One of the most basic principles in any economics class is that of supply and demand. Supply really isn’t in play here, but the point is that when demand is high, you can set prices high. 
Demand for Snooki is high because the youth of our nation is obsessed with her asi­nine show. Demand for Morrison is low, although she’s won a Nobel Prize for litera­ture. 
If talent were a precious metal, Snooki would be worth about 78 cents at your local Gold 2 Cash location. She is (debatably) tal­ented at tanning and laundry. I’m not even going to joke about the gym part. She’s like Ivan Rodriguez, except with more emphasis on the “Pudge.” If Snooki is gold, Morrison is rhodium; it’s worth a lot more, but you wouldn’t know because you’ve never heard of it. 
When I reference the youth that makes Snooki so popular, I mean you guys. Now, I’ve only seen one full episode of “Jersey Shore,” but I can’t hole myself up in an ivory tower. I watch a lot of TV that is “Beloved”? Too much text? Too little time? 
I understand that many intelligent people don’t get the opportunity to attend college, but arguably you are among the top quarter of the population in terms of qualifications to read “high-level” literature. Let me tell you: It’s much more strenuous than reading “Harry Potter.” But it’s much less strenuous than reading “The Sound and The Fury.” 
Authors, playwrights and artists routinely feel the heel of a society that finds their work too inconvenient to appreciate. Yes, an hour-long episode is easier to digest than a 600-page novel. But even if I never read Morrison again, I will still hang on to how amazing her prose was. 
It’s easy to say that paying Morrison less than Snooki is wrong. It’s tougher to demonstrate that we mean it. Don’t watch MTV this week. Go out and buy a respected book. It doesn’t have to be Morrison. It doesn’t even have to be literature. Saying something is wrong is meaningless. Acting on it sends a message. 
Terry Jones, if you’ve gotten bored insti­gating violence in the Middle East, can I recommend “A Shore Thing” for your next book burning? 
This article first appeared in the April 5 edition of The Lantern, the daily publication serving Ohio State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Monday, April 11, 2011 

did a pretty good impression, even 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
though he preceded it with some humor
Scene Writer 

about his lack of rapping ability. 
The only problem with the Student The highlight of the performance, Union Board (SUB) concert Friday night though, was Anamege’s display of pure was that the order of acts was back-lyrical talent. Beresin told the crowd wards. O.A.R. was good, and they may that his partner could freestyle rap lit-be the better-known band, but Chiddy erally anything, including, as he said, Bang didn’t just steal the show; they Oogly-Boogly. owned it. They opened it up to the crowd, and a 
The two-man team of Chidera sort of “Whose Line Is It Anyway” of “Chiddy” Anamege and Noah “Xaphoon rapping began. The crowd gave the Jones” Beresin had the crowd in a fren-rapper a list of topics to freestyle about zy from the moment they stepped on and Anamege knocked it out of the stage. The artists themselves seemed park. He nailed every single suggestion, surprised at how active and responsive including a memorable line about pari­the crowd was. Both artists said in an etals, an “ole” to Zahm and its moose, interview that college campuses are and even salt. among their favorite places to play. They closed their set with a roof-rais­
“We love playing at colleges. We did-ing performance of the song that made n’t really have a college experience, but them famous, “Opposite of Adults.” But you know now, we’ve gotten a party at the night was not over, as the duo came every campus we’ve played at. And I back out at the end of the concert to do mean you all are our peers, we’re 20 a bit of performing with O.A.R., with years old,” Beresin said. much crowd approval again. 
The band laid out mostly tracks from Though the group didn’t play any their first official production, “The songs from their new album, one of Preview,” a set of tracks meant to pre-which was prevented from being per-view their upcoming debut full-length formed because the title contains some album, “Breakfast,” due out this sum-humorous profanity, the duo definitely mer. But they also played a few songs made a few fans Friday night. from their first mixtape, “The Swelly All around it was a fantastic show, Express,” and even played a song they from both bands. But if Chiddy Bang’s made with renowned rapper Big Sean. performance was any indicator of 
For a minute there was a bit of excite-things to come, O.A.R. might be opening ment in the crowd when those who rec-for them not too long from now. ognized the beginning of the song thought that Big Sean was about to step Contact Kevin Noonan at on stage. Instead, Beresin filled in and knoonan2@nd.edu 

a revolution” there wasn’t a “no” in the 
By ADRIANA PRATT 

building. Notre Dame was happy to drown
Scene Writer 

deep inside O.A.R.’s water and especially 
Of A Revolution (O.A.R.) gave Notre thrilled to drown deep inside their sound. Dame students exactly what they were The band kept the audience guessing looking for Friday night: an excuse to be and gave a special preview of material to carefree, happy, maybe a little tipsy and come with their performance of “Over and completely at ease while they listened to Over.” The ballad, slower than most other music that brought them back to a time O.A.R. tunes, towed a simple but potent before finals and parietals. line. Jerry DePizzo, the band’s saxophon-
Chiddy Bang’s opening performance got ist, listed “Over and Over” as one of his the crowd ready for what would be a favorites, even though he doesn’t perform night of raucous but surprisingly coordi-in the actual song. nated jumping, singing, moshing and the “It’s a really great song and it’s just the occasional crowd-surfing. After the duo piano with Mark singing,” DePizzo said exited the stage, O.A.R. slid smoothly into Tuesday. “There’s not a whole hell of a lot place and did what they do best: play for of instrumentation, but it’s super power-college crowds. ful, well-written too. 
The band, which gathered its college “For being a ballad-type tune … you cult following while studying and per-would think that it doesn’t work in a lot of forming at Ohio State, warmed the audi-situations. But it always tends to, regard­ence up with an easy performance of less of how rowdy the audience is, or how “Black Rock,” then followed with their ill fitting the situation may be. It always more recent hit “This Town.” The set list, seems to come through and really react which contained a mix of more popular with people and that’s a cool thing to 
O.A.R. anthems like “Love and Memories” watch.” and new material such as “Over and Students did react to the performance Over,” kept the concert’s rhythm pleasant-— with resounding applause and cheers. ly paced. Toward the end, they chanted for “That 
Mark Roberge, the lead singer, wasn’t Was a Crazy Game of Poker” and got shy showing his love to the audience and exactly that, but with a twist. students were even more shameless The band closed the show with the old-returning such. It would have been almost school hit that made them famous, but impossible to hear the band’s croon over kept it fresh with an impromptu rap from the excited clapping and chanting from Chiddy. Roberge took a turn at freestyle the crowd if it wasn’t for the resonating and the two kept the beat pulsing through clarity of Roberge’s voice. the crowd for an impressively long final 
The audience latched onto the band’s performance. The back-and-forth every lyric, belting each line without fail. between the two acts was the perfect end We went with them and let ourselves go, to a night in Stepan and the perfect start broke with them till they shattered and to South Bend’s first sunny weekend of put behind any griping that went out to the year. SUB for picking what some called a “has­been” act. When O.A.R. asked “how bout Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, April 11, 2011 page 9 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Andrea Suarez Spotted: South Quad 
Andrea enjoyed Sunday’s warm weather with this stylish purple ensemble. Her bright purple strapless shirt looks great with her cuffed jeans and purple sandals. Her aviator sunglasses add the perfect final touch to her outfit. Andrea looks cool and chic with this tropical outfit. 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
Monday, April 11, 2011 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS page 10 
NBA 

Heat best Celtics in possible playoff preview 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — If this was an Eastern Conference semifinals preview, then the Miami Heat and Boston Celtics showed what to expect. 
Few pleasantries. 
Pushing and shoving. 
And maybe a Game 7 in Miami. 
LeBron James scored 27 points, Dwyane Wade added 14 and the Heat moved closer to the No. 2 seed in the East play­offs Sunday by beating the slid­ing Celtics 100-77. 
“It was a playoff-atmosphere type of game, from the fans to both teams’ approach to what the game meant,” Wade said. “It had that feel.” 
Miami moved a game ahead of Boston, trimming its magic num­ber to clinch the second seed to two. The teams will finish sec­ond and third in some order behind Chicago in the East, slot­ted to play in the conference semifinals. 
“We’d like to play them, I can tell you that,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. “And we may have to if we want to go somewhere.” 
Chris Bosh added 13 points and eight rebounds for Miami, which had been 0-3 against Boston this season, though Heat coach Erik Spoelstra cautioned against overstating the win’s importance. 

“We proved we can beat them tonight,” Spoelstra said. “That’s about it, in my mind.” 
Paul Pierce scored 24 points and Kevin Garnett added 21 for Boston, which lost for the 10th time in its last 19 games. The Celtics were outrebounded 42­26, and outscored 44-26 in the paint. 
“What else do you expect? It’s Boston-Miami,” Garnett said. “Supposedly it’s two of, if not the top two, teams in the East. You have to expect that. You have to expect that coming in here you’re not going to get the call. You had to expect their passion 
— a team you have beaten three times.” 
The Heat finally solved the Boston hex, beating the Celtics for the third time in the last 21 meetings. Bosh had been 1-13 against Boston since March 2007, and the Celtics ended both the 2009-10 seasons for Wade (in the first round) and James (in the second round). 
Miami won for the 13th time in its last 16 games, and its bench — maligned for much of the season — outscored Boston’s 32-12. 
“What worked for us today is, offensively we played together,” Wade said. 
Ray Allen scored 13 points for the Celtics. Rajon Rondo was held to just seven points and five assists on 3 for 8 shooting. 
“Frustration is high on our team right now,” Rivers said. 
Miami’s role players were huge. 
Mario Chalmers had nine points in the second quarter, when the Heat took the lead. Joel Anthony had eight rebounds in the first half, two less than the entire Boston roster. Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored six quick points early in the third as the Heat remained in control, and Anthony took advantage of a triple-team on James for a dunk and a 74-59 lead on the final play of the third quarter. 
Of course, this being Celtics-Heat, nothing would come easily for Miami. 
Down by 22, Boston ran off 12 straight points, Allen starting it with a four-point play, and Pierce adding both a 3-pointer and a three-point play to get the Celtics within 85-75. 
It was the last gasp. Mike Bibby’s 3-pointer with 4:49 left, followed by Bosh’s follow of James’ miss, sent the lead back to 15. 
“We built that lead by just keeping guys in front of us, con­testing shots and flying around defensively,” James said. 
Boston scored the game’s first eight points and hit eight of its first nine shots. The Celtics were making it seem easy, especially when Garnett — who hadn’t made a 3-pointer all season — stepped into one from the left wing and connected for a 22-15 lead. 
“It looked like the same old song,” Spoelstra said. 
It didn’t stay that way. Boston went scoreless for the next 6:17, and Miami took the lead for good on the opening possession of the second quarter. 
Tensions were already high, and emotions soon boiled over. 
Jermaine O’Neal — who had just been easily scored on by James 27 seconds earlier in transition — tried to stop anoth­er drive by the two-time reign­ing MVP with a shoulder check with about 4 minutes left in the second, making no play on the ball. 
A scrum quickly broke out under the basket. O’Neal earned a flagrant-1, James got a techni­cal for throwing the ball back at O’Neal, Wade and Pierce also got technicals for some pushing and jostling, and a small amount of debris flew from the stands onto the court. 
“I thought it was all theatrical, all the crap. I guess that’s called toughness these days,” Rivers said. “Two guys run into each other, we’ve got to call a flagrant foul, which I thought was a joke. And I thought the reactions by both were a joke.” 
Bosh earned another technical 2½ minutes later for arguing he tied up a loose ball with Rondo, only to have referees award Boston a timeout. But the Heat kept their composure, kept pouring it on after halftime, then turned their eyes toward road games that loom large at Atlanta on Monday and Toronto on Wednesday. 
“This is cool and all,” Bosh said, “but we still have two more games.” 
MLB 

Young’s effort not enough as Nationals win in extras 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Chris Young looked right at home in Citi Field’s wide-open spaces. 
Lucas Duda very much did not, and now he’s headed to the minors. 
Young allowed one run and one hit in seven innings before the Mets’ bullpen — helped by Duda’s gaffe in right field — blew the lead and ultimately the game in a 7-3 loss to the Washington Nationals in 11 innings Sunday. 
Ivan Rodriguez hit a tiebreak­ing RBI single in the 11th inning and Laynce Nix followed with a three-run homer off Blaine Boyer (0-2), the Mets’ fifth reliev­er. 
“If we had won today, I would’ve been really satisfied,” Young said. “I’m a little disap­pointed in the run I gave up in the second inning. It started with a leadoff walk, which, to me, is unacceptable. Ultimately, they tied the game in the eighth or ninth, and so if we have that run back, we’ve got a three-run lead instead of two, so I take the blame for that.” 

The Mets appeared to place blame elsewhere. 
Duda was optioned to Triple-A Buffalo, while Boyer was desig­nated for assignment. To take their places, the Mets purchased the contracts of reliever Jason Isringhausen and Ryota Igarashi. Isringhausen had been in Port St. Lucie, while Igarashi pitched for Buffalo on Sunday. 
Young got 15 of his 21 outs on flyballs. The only groundout he allowed was Rodriguez’s RBI to second base in the second inning. 
After he came out, Duda mis­judged Rodriguez’s leadoff fly in the eighth. He sprinted toward center, but the ball sailed over his head. Rodriguez wound up with a leadoff double off D.J. Carrasco, who then walked pinch-hitter Matt Stairs with one out and gave up an RBI single to Ian Desmond before Rick Ankiel’s grounder to second tied it at 3. 
“It’s horrible, man,” Carrasco said. “To just come in there and give the game away like that is very frustrating.” 
Then in the 11th, Rodriguez’s hit got past second baseman Daniel Murphy, who pinch hit for Brad Emaus in the ninth after the Mets’ bullpen blew a 3-1 lead in the eighth. Duda scooped up the ball, but his throw to the plate was inaccurate and pinch-runner Wilson Ramos scored easily. 
“The route that was taken, I thought he was going to get there,” Carrasco said. “I wasn’t really worried because we had a two-run lead at the time. It was the fact I couldn’t control the cutter later on. That’s what got me stuck.” 
Drew Storen (1-1) pitched a scoreless 10th for Washington, which salvaged a 3-3 road trip and took two of three from the Mets thanks to timely hitting from its bench players and five innings of scoreless relief. 
The Nationals have won three out of four since dropping four of five to start the season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 

Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
——————————————— 
FOR SALE 
Home in Clay Twship -less than 3mi to ND. $75K. 2BR 1BA. Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30 pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, 
nice deck 

and firepit. Wood heat. New furnace and water heater. Low taxes. Call 574-261-2357 ——————————————— 
FOR RENT 

GRADUATES MOVING TO CHICA­GO? 
RENT FROM OUR NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S ALUMNI FAMILY! 
WE'VE BEEN OFFERING BEAUTIFUL WELL-MAINTAINED STUDIOS, ONE AND 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS ON CHICAGO'S NORTH SIDE FOR OVER 65 YEARS! ——————————————— WE ARE KNOWN FOR OUR EXCEPTIONAL CUSTOMER SERVICE! 
CHECK OUR WEBSITE FOR AVAILABILITY AND FIND THE APARTMENT THAT IS PERFECT FOR YOU! 
WWW.1ST-CHICAGO-APART­MENT-RENTALS.COM 
(773) 381-0150. 

EMAIL ECAREY@SCHIRMFIRM.COM 
——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA-­enchanting and unforgettable! Read this wonderful stage play on Kindle @ Amazon.com, under Books! ——————————————— Seven a.m. waking up in the morning Gotta be fresh, gotta go downstairs Gotta have my tub, gotta have riptide... ... ... ... It’s Wake Week, Wake Week Gotta get going on Wake Week Everybody’s lookin’ forward to the Calling, Calling, Wake Week, Wake Week ——————————————— 

Monday, April 11, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
PGA 

Schwartzel wins Masters in dramatic finish 
Indeed, this final round had it one blown at least a four-shot 
Associated Press 

all. lead going into the last round of 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Charl First came a fist-pumping the major. Schwartzel gave this Masters a charge by Tiger Woods, who So wild was this steamy after-finish it deserved. erased a seven-shot deficit in noon that eight players had at 
On an amazing Sunday at nine holes only to go flat on the least a share of the lead on Augusta National, where the back nine. Then came the stun-some point during the back roars came from everywhere ning collapse of 21-year-old nine. The steady hand came and for everyone and didn’t stop Rory McIlroy, who put his name from Schwartzel, whose only until it was over, Schwartzel in Masters lore for all the wrong bogey came on the fourth hole emerged from the madness by reasons. as this Masters was just getting becoming the first Masters Still leading by one shot as he warmed up. champion to close with four headed to the back nine, He got up-and-down from straight birdies. McIlroy hit a tee shot next to the behind the 15th green for birdie 
His final putt from 20 feet cabins left of the 10th fairway to briefly tie for the lead, only curled into the side of the cup and twice hit a tree to make for Scott to stuff his tee shot into for a 6-under 66, the best clos-triple bogey. He three-putted 2 feet up ahead on the par-3 ing round at the Masters in 22 from 7 feet for bogey on the 16th. Schwartzel answered with years. It gave the 26-year-old 11th, four-putted from about 12 a 15-foot birdie to catch Scott South African a two-shot victory feet on the next hole and buried atop the leaderboard again. over Australians Adam Scott his head into his forearm as the Then came the pivotal 17th, and Jason Day. shock began to settle in. where Schwartzel made a 10­
“Just an exciting day,” McIlroy shot 80, the highest foot birdie. It was the first time Schwartzel said. “So many final round by the 54-hole all day he had the lead to him-roars, and that atmosphere out leader since Ken Venturi in self, and he finished it off in he was scrambling to make par, and posted 31,” he said. “And there was just incredible. A phe-1956. Not since Jean Van de style. McIlroy could hear the noise then on the back nine, could nomenal day.” Velde at Carnoustie had some-South Africans now have won ahead of him for Schwartzel’s have capitalized some more.” 
two of the last three majors, fol-eagles. Moments later came Which shot would he like to lowing Louis Oosthuizen win-another roar to his right on the have back? ning at St. Andrews last sum-seventh green, where Woods “Oh, we can’t do that,” Woods mer. This one came on the 50th stuffed one close for another said. “We do that every week anniversary of Gary Player birdie. and we would go crazy, wouldn’t becoming the first international Woods’ red shirt looked a little we?” player to win the Masters. brighter. He walked a little Schwartzel finished at 13­
“I am absolutely delighted for taller. And the cheers kept com-under 274 and moves to No. 11 Charl and South Africa. ing. in the world, making him the Congratulations and very well The biggest boom from the No. 1 player in South Africa. He done to him. That is how you gallery came on the par-5 becomes the sixth South African finish like a champion!” Player eighth, when Woods knocked in to win a major. said on Twitter. an eagle putt to reach 10 under “It’s been such a short time to 
In so many respects, this and tie for the lead. There was think about what can happen. looked more like 1986 when no mistaking that sound, or who It’s a dream for me,” Schwartzel Jack Nicklaus charged on the it was for. said. “It’s obviously the highlight back nine to win a sixth green Over the next few minutes, of my golf career, by a long way. jacket over a Hall of Fame cast more cheers could be heard I always thought if there was of contenders. There were twice from all corners of Augusta one I would win, it would be this as many possibilities at this each time Woods’ score was one.” Masters, though, from Woods posted on a leaderboard. He still For Scott and Day, it was bit-and former Masters champion had the back nine to play, and ter disappointment for them-Angel Cabrera, from Geoff momentum was on his side. selves and their country. The Ogilvy and Luke Donald, from Not for long, though. Masters is the only major an 
K.J. Choi and Bo Van Pelt, who He missed a 3-foot par putt on Australian has never won, and it made two eagles on the back the 12th, failed to birdie the has become a rallying cry for so nine. par-5 13th with a 7-iron for his many players who watched 
Schwartzel set the tone early second shot. Then, after twirling Greg Norman endure years of when he chipped in from some his 7-iron with a shot so pure it heartache. 75 feet across the green for settled 4 feet away on the par-5 Scott, who switched to a long birdie on the opening hole, then 15th, he missed the 4-foot eagle putter in February, took the lead holed out from the fairway on putt. for the first time with a short No. 3 for eagle. Just like that, Woods closed with a 67, his birdie on the 14th and had the McIlroy’s four-shot lead was best final round ever here. But look of a winner with his tee gone. he shot a 36 on the back nine, shot to tap-in range on the 16th, 
The cheers were impossible and that doesn’t win the and a clutch par save from the for McIlroy to ignore. Masters, certainly not this one. bunker on the 17th. 
From the second green, where “I got off to a nice start there He missed his 25-foot birdie putt on the final hole that he ran 4 feet by and settled for a 67. 

“I don’t think I can ask for anything more,” Scott said. “I had a putt at it at the last — not my best, but everything else was pretty good today.” 
Day came to life at the end with consecutive birdies that allowed him to shoot 68 and join Scott at 12-under 276. He hugged his wife before going into the scoring hut, only to see Schwartzel play the 18th with­out any drama. 
“I couldn’t do any more than what I just did today,” Day said. “Charl played even better golf.” 
Woods tied for fourth at the Masters for the second straight year, joined by Ogilvy (67) and Luke Donald (69). Ogilvy ran off five consecutive birdies on the back nine — unforgettable at any other Masters but this one filled with so many highlights. Donald was in the mix until hit­ting 9-iron into Rae’s Creek on the 12th for double bogey. 
He rebounded beautifully, however, and showed his great­est emotion on the 18th. With an awkward lie near the bunker, he scooped a shot that hit the flag and bounced back off the green, and Donald chipped in for birdie. 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 11, 2011 
SMC TENNIS 

Hope ends Belles’ winning streak at four games 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
While the Belles’ four-match winning streak came to a dis­appointing end this weekend, the team left with knowledge of what it will take to chal­lenge top MIAA opponents in the upcoming conference tour­nament. 
After a dominating perform­ance against non-conference foe Bethel College (8-5, 3-0 MIAA) Friday, the Belles’ streak was snapped Saturday in Holland, Mich. against MIAA opponent Hope College. The Flying Dutch quickly rebounded from a 9-0 loss the previous night against Division II opponent Grand Valley State to hand the Belles (9-6, 2-2) a 7-2 defeat. 

Saint Mary’s quickly fell behind in the doubles portion of the match, getting swept in three matches. Senior Jesssica Kosinski and freshman Mary Catherine Faller played in the closest doubles match of the three, but still lost 8-4. 
“Hope was just more aggres­sive than we were [in dou­bles],” senior No. 1 singles player Jillian Hurley said. “We let them control the points and were constantly on defense.” 
Following doubles play, the Belles were down 3-0 and faced the challenge of needing to win five of six matches to salvage a victory. 
“It’s definitely disheartening and frustrating to enter sin­gles play down 3-0,” Hurley said. “But the strength of our team lies in singles play, so we were a little optimistic.” 
Nonetheless, the Belles could not overcome the deficit as their No. 1 and No. 2 sin­gles players posted the team’s only victories of the match. 
In a three-set match, Hurley avenged her loss last season to fellow senior Katherine Garcia with a come-from ­behind victory. Hurley fell 6-2 in the first set but rebounded to win the final two sets 6-2, 6-3. 
“[What decided the match] wasn’t so much skill level as it was confidence,” Hurley said. “After the first set, I stopped feeling sorry for myself and pulled it together.” 
Meanwhile, Kosinski defeat­ed Hope sophomore Leah LaBarge in straight sets, 6-3, 7-5. 
On Friday, the Belles defeat­ed cross-town rival and NIAA opponent Bethel College 5-1, in a match in Mishawaka. 
The Belles’ lone loss came in the No. 1 doubles match in which the freshman duo of Margaret Boden and Hurley fell to the Pilots’ Molly O’Grady and Whit Neuenschwander, 8-3. 
Following doubles play, the Belles needed only three sin­gles matches to win as Kosinski, Faller and senior Mary Therese Lee all easily dispatched their opponents in straight sets. 
The Belles look to climb back above .500 in MIAA con­ference play Tuesday at 4 p.m. at Alma College. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 


Coyne 
continued from page 16 
was over, hold the ball to get different people in. We weren’t able to get those better shooters in effectively, though.” 
The offensive frustration is not a new problem for the Irish this season. Coyne said, as she has in the past, that the rest of the roster needs to meet the intensity level of the team’s leaders. 
“It’s unacceptable,” Coyne said of the lack of offensive exe­cution. “We just don’t have enough people stepping up. Our key personnel continue to show up but we don’t have enough people stepping to their level.” 

Coyne said that at Notre Dame, teams are expected to achieve a level of excellence. She said her coaching record mirrors those expectations. 
“At Notre Dame, there’s an expectation,” she said. “It demands excellence. It’s as hard on [the players] as it is on any­one else. We’re just not in that frame of mind. I, myself, am used to winning. I win, the kids I coach win, my teams win. It’s just what we do.” 
Although the Irish have not lived up to pre-season expecta­tions, Coyne said their talent level and desire has never been an issue. 
“These kids are talented enough,” Coyne said. “They have great attitudes and they work really hard, it just doesn’t happen for us on game day. I’m not saying it’s not going to be hard, but I still think we can turn this around.” 
Coyne said she told her team after the loss to Syracuse she believed they had the ability to right the ship. Coyne also said she expected to be watching plenty of film upon returning to South Bend. 
“I told the team after the game, ‘Maybe we can be one of those surprise, get-it-together teams,’” she said. “When we get back I’m going to go back and look at film again with an open mind and try to figure out what’s wrong. I still think the kids have it in them.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Border 
continued from page 14 
teams created a friendly atmos­phere, it was all business once the events started. Team Hoosierland beat the Commonwealth 103-96 in the men’s competition, and pre­vailed 104-96 on the women’s side. Irish athletes played a large role in the Indiana victo­ry, and strong performances were seen across the board. 
Distance runners were the stars of the day for the Notre Dame women. Junior Molly Hirt won the 5,000-meter run in 17:18.83, and was closely followed by freshman Meg Ryan, who finished second. Irish runners also placed first and second in the 1,500 meter run, where sophomore Rebecca Tracy and freshman Kelly Curran finished in 4:24.43 and 4:27.26, respectively. 
On the men’s side, the Irish throwers had an especially good showing, led by senior John Belcher. Belcher placed third in the shot put, and fol­lowed that up by winning the hammer throw with a personal best. 

“[Belcher] had a really good day on Saturday,” Hills said. “He threw over 57 meters in the hammer, and that’s a per­sonal record for him.” 
Another Irish thrower who performed well was freshman Andrew Brock. 
“[Brock] had a pretty good day in the shot,” Hills said. “As a freshman, throwing over 45 meters like that is really good.” 
Although Saturday’s meet was a great change of pace for the Irish, their schedule contin­ues to sprint forward. The Irish will be back in action this week, and will try to divide and conquer as they compete across the country. 
The multi-eventers will travel to Lawrence for the Kansas Relays, while the other Irish athletes will compete at the Mt. SAC relays in Walnut, Calif., and the Dave Rankin Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



Monday, April 11, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
we strung hits together ... and we played really strong defense so we prevented them from get­ting on and scoring." 
A couple of freshman led the charge in the victory, as pitcher Callie Selner recorded two strikeouts with the bases loaded to end the first inning. Meanwhile, first baseman Chrissy Porter delivered the game's only run with her fifth-inning home run — the first of her career. Despite the team's strong performance, Saint Mary's disappointed in the sec­ond game. 

"We just haven't proven that we can play 14 innings in one day," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "Our pitching has been struggling a little bit and our run production has been down. When we struggle on defense, it shows on the offensive side instead of being able to draw the line [between the two]." 
There was no rest for the weary, however, as the Belles had to return home for a Sunday doubleheader against North Central (14-6, 1-1 CCIW). In the opener, Saint Mary's failed to get a hit in all five innings of the shortened game and fell 12-0. The Belles lost the second game 8-1, but showed improvement both from the pitcher's circle and the batter's box. 
Junior Angela Gillis took the ball for the first time this season for the Belles and turned in an impressive performance, even while her team was hampered by a number of untimely errors. 
"Angela Gillis pitched a fantas­tic game," Sullivan said. "I think every one of her runs must have been unearned. She hit every spot, she missed her spot three times. We can't ask for any more. She fielded her position well, she got a base hit, so she was fantastic. We throw her in against a team that was shelling us in game one and she was just awesome, lights-out. We are def­initely going to have to keep going with her." 
Despite Gillis' praiseworthy performance and a few other scattered highlights, Sullivan said that she was unimpressed by her team's showing on Sunday. 

"[We displayed a] lack of confi­dence, we did not come out with any intensity or energy, and we had way too many errors," she said. 
To ensure that they are victori­ous moving forward, the Belles will have to focus on bringing base runners home, Sullivan said. 
"When we have runners on, we need to score them," she said. "We were really good at doing that in the first 10 games, we haven't done that since." 
Having lost seven out of their last eight games, the Belles will have to pick themselves out of the mid-season slide. With six doubleheaders remaining before the conference tournament, Saint Mary's is tasked with demonstrating that it can play at a high level for an extended period of time. 
"I think we need to do better and pick ourselves up and have more confidence," Enayati said. "We are a great team and we have really great players. We just need to believe it, and every­thing else is just mental." 
The Belles will not have to wait long to prove that they are capable of playing better, as they travel to Franklin on Tuesday for a non-conference match-up. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo @nd.edu 
SOFTBALL 

Irish stretch winning streak to nine games 
By KELSEY MANNING with equally formidable bat-
Sports Writer ting as Miller smashed her 
second home run of the day to 
Seven players recorded kick off the first inning, and three hits on the day for the Fleury was quickly brought Irish and six hits went for home by solid hits from home runs as Notre Dame’s Buntin and senior outfielder balanced and persistent Brianna Jorgensborg. offensive attack brought down Though Syracuse evened up Syracuse in back -to -back the score, Johnson brought games Sunday in New York. her hitting streak to a whop-
Though travel complications ping 16 games with a third-for Notre Dame (24-10, 5-0) inning homer that put the did not allow the scheduled Irish back on top. Clutch hit-Friday game to be played, the ting by Notre Dame left very pair of victories brought the few players on base, resulting Irish winning streak to nine in a 7-4 win. games, matching their longest “We did a lot of little things of the season. In addition, the right,” Miller said. “The Irish squad remains undefeat-pitchers kept us in the games, ed in Big East play. and the hitters produced 
Despite an early homer for runs. We didn't leave a lot of the Orange (24 -10, 3-5), runners on base, which is a Notre Dame was able to great indicator of how well quickly even up the count as we are working together right senior infielder Katie Fleury now.” smashed a home run of her In the opener freshman own in the top of the second. pitcher Laura Winter struck The big hits continued as out nine in a complete game sophomore catcher Amy for her sixth-straight victory, Buntin crushed a two -out while the tandem of Winter two-run homer, which sailed and senior pitcher Jody over the fence and gave the Valdivia was able to close out Irish a comfortable lead. the second game. Senior infielder Heather The Irish will return home Johnson and junior infielder for the remainder of the Dani Miller followed up with week, starting with a Tuesday back-to-back home runs — doubleheader with Bowling the second time the pair has Green and closing out with done so this season. more Big East play next 
“I think everyone stayed weekend against Louisville. really composed and just According to Miller, the squad jumped all over those pitch-is feeling confident about ers,” Miller said. “It wasn't maintaining its undefeated just the home runs; everyone conference record as it was contributing. It’s really marches closer to the Big exciting to see back-to-back East tournament. line drive doubles to score or “We are definitely feeling just textbook softball.” good,” Miller said. “These 
Offensive support came were good wins, and I know from senior catcher Alexia that we are already looking Clay, who led the Irish with forward to carry this momen­three runs scored and helped tum to next weekend against the squad best the Orange 9-2 Louisville.” in the home opener. 
In the second contest Contact Kelsey Manning at Syracuse pitchers were faced kmannin3@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 11, 2011 
Corrigan 
continued from page 16 
got so many other guys you’re worried about on the perimeter. At the end of it all, you have to find him on the inside because they do. It takes one guy to make a mistake, and he makes you pay for it.” 
The Hoyas fought back and were in control of a 3-2 lead well into the second quarter, but the Irish answered with a pair of goals. Comeau kept Georgetown in the game, how­ever, as he completed a hat trick with his third goal of the half, making the score 4-4 at halftime. 
Notre Dame’s defense made its necessary adjustments at the half and held the Hoyas to only one goal in the third quarter. The sole goal was pivotal though, tying the game at five heading into the final quarter. 
“We’ve proven ourselves to be a pretty good defensive team,” Corrigan said. “We make it hard on people. We make them earn their goals. [The Hoyas] had to earn theirs today. We gave them a lot of extra chances today because of some mistakes. That was a little dis­appointing, but it was good to know our defense and [sopho­more goalie] John Kemp were up to the challenge.” 
Senior midfielder David Earl led the Irish with two goals and one assist. Earl drew a penalty on the Hoyas with three min­utes remaining, which led to a man advantage and a game-winning goal by junior midfield­er Max Pfeifer. 
“[The key to the game was] good possessions toward the end of the game. It’s a one-goal game, so you never want to give possessions away,” Earl said. “We got good shots, [took] our 
Floyd 
continued from page 16 
football. Everybody’s jumped to conclusions that Mike Floyd is going to play football. Mike has so many things on his plate that he has to handle before he can even think about football. 
“This is fluid. This is everyday evaluating. He may come in tomorrow and say, ‘Hey coach, I can’t do this,’ or ‘This is too diffi­cult.’ This is everyday talking to him and making sure he’s taking the right steps to number one get his degree, and number two, per­sonally, he’s got to take care of things we talked about that our absolutely crucial to his success as a student and as a young man.” 
Floyd remains scheduled to appear in court on May 2. 
“It’s only been three weeks,” Kelly said. “This young man needs time to get some things in order. He’s doing the right things, we’ve put together a plan that he has to follow, that he wants to fol­low. He’s the one that said, ‘Listen, I need to do these things to be right.’ There’s a lot of work that has to be done, there are a lot of hurdles that he has to cross first.” 
The junior became Notre Dame’s all-time leader in touch­down receptions (28) and second all-time in catches (171) last sea­son. 
Notes 
• Kelly will appear as a guest analyst for the NFL Network on Saturday, April 30, in its cover­age of the First Year Player Draft. Kelly will join Alabama coach Nick Saban, Wisconsin coach Bret time on offense and obviously [were] able to bury some [goals]. At the end we were able to keep them away from scoring and play some good defense at the end of the game.” 

Corrigan said he has been able to rely on his co-captain to make plays during crunch time. 
“David Earl is just a stud. He does everything for us. We’ve come to count on him doing everything,” Corrigan said. “At the end of the game, whether we’re on offense or defense, David Earl’s going to be on the field, and we’re going to be counting on him to make a play. That’s just about everything you could say about a guy.” 
Earl said the Irish and Hoyas have several players on their rosters who attended Georgetown Preparatory in Maryland, so the Irish had added incentive to snag the vic­tory against this particular team. 
“I think about 10 kids on our team know about 10 kids on their team, so between them, it was definitely a rivalry,” Earl said. “They beat us last year, so it was nice to come away with the victory today.” 
Corrigan said the Irish enjoyed earning the victory at home under the sun. 
“It’s like a spring sport here at Notre Dame — lacrosse. Who’d have figured?” he said. “It was a great day to get a win. I don’t know if we played as well as we were hoping to, but that credit goes to Georgetown. They are a very good and tal­ented team. We knew it was going to be a game until the last second, and it was.” 
The Irish return to action for their final home game Saturday against St. John’s at 7 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

Bielema and North Carolina coach Butch Davis on the net­work. 
“I’m going to do it only from a perspective of a college football coach, how you get to this point, because I have no idea how those guys [prospects] are rated by the NFL,” he said. 
• 
The 82nd Annual Blue-Gold scrimmage will be televised live on the Versus Network Saturday, April 16, marking the first time the spring game will be televised nationally. 

“We’re excited about that,” Kelly said. “[Broadcaster] Tom Hammond will be doing the game, so the NBC talent will be there. It’s going to be exciting. I hope that we can live up to those expecta­tions of being on TV. Right now we’re a little thin in certain areas, but we’ll make it exciting. It will be a good opportunity to show­case our football team on Versus.” 

• 
Freshman wide receiver Daniel Smith remains inactive after suffering a Grade 1 ham­string injury in practice two weeks ago. Kelly said the recovery process has revealed a strength deficiency in Smith’s leg that existed prior to the injury. 


“As we’ve gone back to look at this, he probably had a deficiency in that leg when he came on cam­pus,” Kelly said. “This is almost about strengthening as much as it is the hamstring [injury]. We’re grading it as about a 30 percent deficiency in that hamstring. We’re going to get him back, but whether he gets back in time for the spring game is questionable at this time.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish, IU win Border Battle 
meet,” Irish junior thrower Andy Hills said. “We see Indiana a couple times a year, and Louisville’s in the Big East with us, so we see them all the time. It’s cool to go down there and compete with people you’ve gotten to know over the years. It makes it fun for everybody.” 
While the composition of the 
see BORDER/page 12 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 

It was still a track meet, with the same events, same standards and the same famil­iar faces. But the Kentuckiana Border Battle was different from any other meet for the Irish, and was a welcome change, at that. 
The premise of the Border Battle is simple: an annual battle for track supremacy between the states of Indiana and Kentucky. Notre Dame teamed up with rival Indiana to form Team Hoosierland, taking on The Commonwealth team of Kentucky and Louisville. The pairing of ath­letes that so often compete against each other resulted in some great competition, and some great friendships. 
“It’s a very interesting we kind of took him out of rhythm a little bit in terms of making those two errors behind him. He should’ve been out of the inning but suddenly he had to go and throw 15 more pitches to get out of the inning with some real pressure against him.” 
Mancini led the charge in Sunday’s finale, going 2-4 with four RBI including a solo bomb to left field in the top of the third for his fifth home run of the run. Petzold also added four RBI to help the Irish take a 9-0 lead after three innings, giving senior right -hander Todd Miller plenty of breathing room to record the win. 
“Plain and simple, in order to beat good teams you have to play at a high level from the first pitch to the very last,” Aoki said. 
Notre Dame has the week 
off until they resume Big East play with a series this weekend against West Virginia. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Duel 
continued from page 16 

an outstanding pitching duel between two right-handers, Connecticut’s junior Matt Barnes and Notre Dame sen­ior Brian Dupra. Both aces matched each other through six scoreless frames, with each giving up their only earned runs in the seventh. 
“It was disappointing because we played at a real­ly high level for seven innings, as did Connecticut, but we blinked first,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “Our level of play dropped a little bit in the eighth and faded in the ninth. But I think it is one of those things where we are learning. We have shown flashes of playing at a high level. There are just some matters of consisten­cy.” 
Trailing 2-1 in the bottom of the eighth, Notre Dame wasted a golden opportunity when it put two runners aboard with only one out and the heart of the lineup due up. But the Huskies’ bullpen induced pop-outs from standout freshman first baseman Trey Mancini and fifth-year senior right fielder Herman Petzold to end the threat. 
The Irish threw away another chance in the bot­tom of the ninth when they brought the winning run to the plate with no outs, but couldn’t get the ball out of the infield in the 3-1 loss. 
The second game of the series featured more offen­sive inconsistency as the Irish couldn’t build on an early 1-0 lead after Mancini slapped a two-out RBI single to right field to start off his 3-4 afternoon. 
Senior right-hander Cole Johnson lasted only 4.1 innings, giving up five earned runs. The right-han­der struggled with his con­trol as the game progressed, walking three batters — all of whom eventually scored. 
“He wasn’t as sharp as he been in other outings,” Aoki said. “But in that first inning 

Monday, April 11, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, April 11, 2011 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Floyd remains suspended, but could rejoin team with time 
and Kelly. “I’ve met with the Office of Floyd was arrested the morning The most important thing for
By CHRIS MASOUD 

“Michael has shared with me Residence Life and, while I don’t of March 20 for operating a vehi-Michael Floyd is to get his
Sports Writer 

the outcome of his hearing with plan to discuss the details, I’m cle while intoxicated. At the time, degree.” 
our Office of Residence Life, and grateful that I still have a chance Kelly said Floyd would not return Kelly said Floyd, a sociology 
Junior wide receiver Michael I’m happy that he has the oppor-to earn my degree from Notre to football activities until legal and major, remains 25 credit hours Floyd will remain suspended tunity to move forward both aca-Dame and be a member of the university disciplinary matters away from graduation and will indefinitely from football activities demically and athletically here at football team,” Floyd said in a “had run their course.” continue his pursuit of a degree after meeting with the Office of Notre Dame,” Kelly said in a press press release. “I know that I still “Academics and personally, he’s next year. However, Kelly would Residence Life last week, Irish release Saturday. “However, this need to meet requirements set by got a lot of things in front of him, a not give a timetable as to when coach Brian Kelly said Saturday. does not change the fact that the university and coach Kelly, lot of hurdles he has to go through Floyd could return to the gridiron. According to a press release, Michael is still a suspended mem-and that I have a lot of work to do before we even start thinking “I can only comment on what I Floyd will continue his education-ber of our football team.” that and to prove that I’ve grown about football,” Kelly said. “We do as a football program,” Kelly al pursuits and will have the While he is appreciative of the from this experience. I’m sorry are so far removed from the foot-said. “Michael is suspended, and opportunity to rejoin the football chance to move forward, Floyd again for the poor decisions I’ve ball end of this. What I’m pleased, that’s indefinite. This is not about program after meeting certain said he will not disclose the made and for letting so many peo-what Mike told and shared with requirements set by the university specifics of his meeting. ple down.” me, is he’s going to be in school. see FLOYD/page 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Hoyas handled 
Irish win Big East thriller in fnal quarter 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
It took all four quarters of a tightly-contested afternoon for the No. 2 Irish to defeat rival Georgetown 7-6 in front of a packed stadium in their Playing for Peace game Sunday. 
The Irish (8-0, 3-0) opened the game with a goal from jun­ior attackman Sean Rogers, but the one-point lead did not last long. Georgetown (5-5, 2-2) sophomore attackman Travis Comeau quickly responded, as he and Rogers exchanged a pair of goals to end the first quarter even at 2-2. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said Comeau presents several problems for any defense. 
“He’s so nifty and he gets the tough ground balls inside on rebounds and stuff like that,” Corrigan said. “He’s hard to find and cover because they’ve 
see CORRIGAN/page 14 


SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles drop three over weekend 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

The Belles dropped three of their four weekend games, but recorded a win against No. 13 Adrian, the last remaining undefeated team in college soft­ball. 
Saint Mary's (11-10, 1-5 MIAA) snapped Adrian's (25-1, 5-1 MIAA) 24-game winning streak with a 1-0 victory over the Bulldogs in the first game of Saturday's doubleheader before dropping the second game 11-2. The win was the first in confer­ence play for Saint Mary's this season, and was a fitting reward for a well-played outing by the Belles. 
"It was amazing, it is a great feat to beat the only undefeated team in all three divisions," jun­ior outfielder Lauren Enayati said. "We worked really hard, stayed up the whole time and 
see BELLES/page 13 
BASEBALL 

Outburst prevents sweep 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Heading into possibly their toughest home series of the season, the Irish were looking to make a statement against a team filled with major league prospects. Despite losing the series, Notre Dame still accomplished this goal. 
The Irish (13-16-1, 4-5 Big East) continued their offen­sive struggles by dropping the first two games of the big series with conference rival Connecticut (17-11-1, 7-2), but rebounded Sunday with a 14-run outburst in what is Notre Dame’s biggest win of the year thus far. 
The series opener featured an outstanding pitching duel 
see DUEL/page 14 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Inconsistency troubles NDteamoverweekend 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame returned from its east coast swing this week­end having again shown mad­dening inconsistency. The Irish (5-7, 2-2) defeated Villanova 15-4 Friday before falling to Syracuse 12-7 Sunday. 
Notre Dame began the weekend with a convincing win over a team it was heavily favored to beat. The Irish blanked the Wildcats (4-5, 0-2) 16-0 last season and again dominated the ‘Cats behind sophomore attacker Betsy Mastropieri’s four-goal, five-point game. 
On Sunday, the Irish and Orange (5-6, 3-0) started the game on fire, as Notre Dame jumped to an early 3-2 lead. Heading into the second half trailing 8-5, the Irish finished the game committing 11 of their 14 turnovers and scored only twice. Senior attacker Ansley Stewart led Notre Dame with three first-half goals. 
According to Irish coach Tracy Coyne, her team’s loss came down to a lack of poise. 
“We lacked composure,” she said. “We were trying to exe­cute our offensive sets and just couldn’t get it done. I wanted us to run the fast break out of transition, and then when it 
see COYNE/page 12 





