the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Campus reacts to Osama bin Laden’s death 
Students see justice in end of al-Qaida terrorist leader’s life 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
On September 11, 2001, fresh­man Beau Dolan’s father was among the Pentagon employees responding to the World Trade Center attacks in New York when Flight 77 flew into his office window. 
Nearly 10 years later, Dolan held an American flag in front of a crowd at LaFortune Student Center and led a student cele­bration through campus after hearing the news about Osama bin Laden’s death Sunday evening. 
“It’s never going to be gone, but I felt really relieved yester­day — a weird kind of peace,” Dolan said. “This guy murdered my dad, and he has been on the run for 10 years. I never got that sense of justice. After 10 years, I think I deserved to be ecstatic about this.” 
Dolan first heard the news when his mother called him from their home in Washington, 
D.C. Dolan said he was unsure how to react initially. 
“When I found out from [my mom], I didn’t know what to make of it,” he said. “Then I told my friend, and he got really excited, and then I realized that 
see STUDENTS /page 5 



Hesburgh undergoes surgery 

Observer Staff Report 
University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh underwent a suc­cessful kidney surgery Monday, according to a University press release. 
Hesburgh is now resting comfortably after his surgery, the release stated. 
The operation, which was performed at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in Mishawaka, Ind., has been scheduled for several weeks. 
Hesburgh, 93, served as the president of Notre Dame from 1952 to 1987. 





ND faculty experts discuss implications for Mid-East region 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
News outlets and social media sites exploded with up-to-the­second content Sunday evening as President Barack Obama announced an American raid in Abbottabad, Pakistan, killed al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden hours earlier. 
Though the nation celebrated, faculty experts on the Middle East said bin Laden’s death was not the end of the war on terror, even though it was a significant American victory. 
Asher Kaufman, professor of History and Peace Studies, said bin Laden’s death is a major accomplishment for the United States, but the event is not criti­cal to America’s involvement in the Middle East. 
“I don’t see it making a major change in the broader sense of things,” Kaufman said. “This was a symbolic thing that mat­tered to the United States’ domestic consumption more than anything else.” 
Though the pursuit of bin Laden represents one of the greatest manhunts in modern times, Kaufman said his death holds little impact on the American military presence in 
see TERROR /page 5 



Students intern with politicians 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students will work on both sides of the aisle and learn the nuances of American government as politi­cal interns around the country this summer. 
Junior Paige Becker, a politi­cal science and English double major, will work for Republican Ohio Sen. Keith Faber at the statehouse in Columbus, Ohio. 
“I actually worked for him last summer as a campaign worker in his district,” she said. “He’s also the President Pro Tempore of the Ohio State Senate, so it will be exciting to be in the office.” 
Becker said last summer she worked in Celina, Ohio, which is the largest town in Faber’s dis­trict. She helped Faber cam­paign for reelection in 2012 by organizing fundraisers and vol­unteers to walk in parades, pass out stickers with his name and distribute pamphlets outlin­ing his platform. 
She also helped Faber sup­port the campaigns of other local Republican politicians. 
“This summer will be differ­ent because I won’t be in the district office,” she said. “I’ll be working on constituent services, helping people that call in. I’ll also be doing some administra­tive duties. [Faber’s office is] doing the budget this summer, and I’ll be picking up some of the workload that the adminis­trative assistants can’t do at that time.” 
Becker said when she first contacted Faber last year, she had applied to various public relations internships but was looking for a job that more 
see INTERNS /page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor to testify in Congress page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Water for Elephants movie review page 9  Floyd court date rescheduled page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, May 3, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE ARE YOU GOING THIS SU  ER?

THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Vicky Jacobsen Emily Schrank Cory Bernard Adam Llorens Andrew 
Graphics Gastelum Lauren Kalinoski Scene Photo Arkur Chawla Dan Jacobs Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen 
OFFBEAT 
Lawnmower thief pays the price 
EAST LYME, Conn. – Authorities say a man who was drunk and looking for a place to sleep broke into a trail­er behind a Connecticut high school, then instead stole keys to a lawnmower and went for a joyride during which he mowed his parents’ lawn. 
Police in East Lyme say 22 -year-old Nikolaus Trombley was caught on tape early Wednesday stealing the lawnmower from East Lyme High School. 
Police say Trombley told them he was look­ing for the keys to the school when he found 

Kyle Buckley  Johnny Romano  Claire Bourbonnais  Gabriella Hernandez  Briana Cameron  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Dillon  Dillon  McGlinn  McGlinn  McGlinn  

“Dominican “The dirty “Home in “Texas.” “Jacksonville, Republic for a 847.” ATL, then the Florida.” week, then ND Vision back to Program.” Georgia.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

the keys to the lawn ­mower. He rode it three miles to his parents ' house, mowed the lawn and started to head back to the school but aban­doned the mower on the way. 
He ’s charged with third-degree larceny and burglary. 
New Jersey chickens and roosters regulated 
HOPEWELL TOWN ­SHIP, N.J. – A New Jersey town has adopted an ordinance that regu­lates when chickens and roosters can hook up in backyard henhouses. 
Roosters must show they're disease-free and they better not crow about their conquests. 
Hopewell Township residents can have up to a half -dozen hens on half-acre lots. Roosters would be allowed only 10 days a year for fertil­ization purposes. 
Mature roosters are not allowed because they 're too noisy. Any roosters that crow too long can be banned from the property for two years. 
Mayor Jim Burd told The Times of Trenton the ordinance is a com­promise between today's lifestyle and the town ­ship's agricultural histo­ry. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Pedro Ramos Pinto from the University of Manchester will be giving a talk titled “Crisis, Anxiety and the Colonial Origins of the Welfare State in Portugal, 1928-1944” from 
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center. 
Professor Nicolas Wiater from the University of Bonn (Germany) and Visiting Oldfather Scholar in Classics at The University of Illinois will be giving a lecture titled “A Men's World? Violence and the Female in the Iliad” from 5 to 6 p.m. today in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
There will be a Jazz Band concert tonight in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. This program features Notre Dame’s Jazz Bands and the New Orleans Brass Band in their final con­cert of the semester. 
The weekly Catholic Charismatic prayer meeting will be held tonight in the Alumni Hall Chapel from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. Rev. Edward O'Connor will preside over the meeting. 
FTT’s spring 2011 playwrighting course will hold an event titled “ND Playwrights Now!” tonight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but ticketed. Guests can pick up tickets at the Performing Arts Center box office. 
Student Ben Stone will be having an organ recital tonight from 8 to 9 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight wednesday THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


54 40 HIGH 5860 6164
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


46 36 LOW 4044 4751 







Tuesday, May 3, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



ProfessortotestifyinCongress 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Kroc Institute Professor David Cortright will try to persuade Congress to end the war in Afghanistan when he testifies before the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission today at a hear­ing on the quality of life for Afghan women. 
Cortright said the war in Afghanistan has done little to improve the lives of Afghan women. 
“While women have achieved some gains since the fall of the Taliban, the war and the militarized poli cies are caus­ing a set­back to the status of women,” Cortright said. “Most of the women we interviewed want to see an end to the war.” 
An end to the war will improve the lives of women in the country, Cortright said, and the recent death of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden could be a key to clos­ing the war in Afghanistan. 
“I think it makes a stronger case now for ending the war,” Cortright said. “Al-Qaida is weak, and now it’s been fur­ther weakened with the loss of bin Laden … The reason we went into Afghanistan is because al-Qaida attacked America ten years ago. But al-Qaida is pretty much a spent force, and yet we’re waging this huge war. It’s time to declare victory and go home.” 


Cortright said he was invit­ed to speak because of his work on the Kroc Institute’s report titled “Afghan Women Speak: Enhancing Security and Human Rights in Afghanistan,” released in the fall. 
“It’s been well-received in a number of quarters,” Cortright said, “And some of the members of Congress in Washington were interested in having us participate in this hearing.” 
The hearing will address the effect of the war in Afghanistan on the lives of women in the country and analyze the benefits that would come from a withdraw­al of troops. Members of Congress, congressional staff, witnesses and media repre­sentatives will attend the hearing. 
“Many see [improving lives] as a reason why we’re fighting, 
supposedly to help liberate the  “All you can do is try to present good  and director of the Afghan  
w o m e n , ” Cortright said, “And we wanted  analysis and facts and hope that  W o m e n ’ J u d g e Association.  s s  
to look at that  [Congress] will  C o r t r i g h t  
and really try to verify what are  interpret it well.”  has b e  testified f o r e  
the facts and what do Afghan women them- David Cortright Kroc Institute professor  Congress in the past and said he under- 
selves think.”  stands his tes- 
Cortright said  timony  will  

he hopes his testimony will not necessarily translate into persuade legislators to with-legislation. draw troops. “All you can do is try to 
“There are some bills before present good analysis and Congress urging the president facts,” Cortright said, “and to come up with a plan and a hope that [Congress] will timetable for withdrawing interpret it well.” troops,” Cortright said, “And certainly that would be the Contact Tori Roeck at kind of legislation we would vroeck@nd.edu 
encourage.” 
Cortright said withdrawing troops from Afghanistan does not mean the United States should turn their backs on the Afghan people. 
“We need to maintain sup­port for development policies in Afghanistan,” Cortright said. “As we pull out militari­ly, we need to maintain eco­nomic and social support. We shouldn’t be abandoning the people of Afghanistan when we pull out our troops.” 
The other witnesses present at the hearing will be Rina Amiri, senior advisor on Afghanistan in the U.S. Department of State; Don Steinberg, deputy administra­tor for the U.S. Agency for International Development; Joanne Sandler, deputy direc­tor of UN Women; Dr. Massouda Jalal, physician and former Minister of Women’s Affairs in Afghanistan; and Hon. Marzia Basel, founder 


Senior Legacy to benefit Kevin Healey fund 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The graduating senior class will honor a deceased class­mate and assist future students in emergency health situations by supporting the Kevin Healey Emergency Assistance Fund with its 2011 Senior Legacy gift. 
The Fund will assist students who require financial aid to travel in an emergency situa­tion. 
“For example, if a student has a family member sick and they need to get home, this fund will help provide funds for them to buy a flight home,” Assistant Director for the Annual Fund Tim Ponisciak said. 
The Kevin Healey Emergency Assistance Fund will also reach out to families living far from the Notre Dame campus, Ponisciak said. If a student becomes ill or hospitalized while at Notre Dame, the Fund will assist family members traveling to South Bend. 
The Fund is named in memo­ry of Kevin Healey, who would have graduated this month with the Class of 2011. Healey fell to cancer in April 2009 during his sophomore year at Notre Dame. 
Ann Healey, Kevin’s mother, said the legacy gift fit for her son’s experience at Notre Dame. 
“When he started ND as a freshman, he had already been through nearly a year of can­cer treatment,” she said. “Our family went back and forth between ND and the Cleveland Clinic where Kevin was being treated hundreds of times.” 
Fundraising for the Legacy is off to a great start, Student Development Committee (SDC) co-chair Maggie Nettesheim said. 
Nettesheim said SDC raises funds for the Legacy in a num­ber of ways. Members of the committee send emails and let­ters to seniors and their par­ents, and the University Phone Center calls graduating stu­dents and their families for donations as well. 
This year, SDC also hosted a trivia night at Legends on March 30 and donated the admission fees to the fund. 
“We were completely booked to capacity, and everyone seemed to have a lot of fun,” Nettesheim said. “It was at the beginning of the campaign, so it was a really good way to get things jumpstarted and get the word out.” 
Members of Kevin Healey’s hometown will also contribute to the fund. St. Bernadette’s, an elementary school in Cleveland, Ohio, will host a day of fundraising May 18. Ann Healey teaches kindergarten at St. Bernadette’s and said her students’ parents requested to hold the fundraiser. 
In exchange for a small fee, students can choose to “dress down” and wear clothes other than their school uniforms. The school will also raffle gift baskets and sell baked goods. All proceeds from the day will be donated directly to the Emergency Fund. 
Ann Healey said she and her family plan to present the funds they raise to Notre Dame when they travel to South Bend to receive Kevin’s diploma at graduation. 
“The parents are rallying behind our family as they have all along,” she said. “They want to make a contribution to the Kevin Healey Senior Legacy Fund this year and this is the way they chose to sup­port it.” 
Earlier this year, Nettesheim and the SDC selected five sug­gestions from the senior class for the Senior Legacy 2011 gift. The seniors then voted online for one of the five. 
“This fund definitely got a lot of support,” Nettesheim said. “I think people were really enthusiastic about it.” 
Ponisciak said approximately 570 seniors have already made donations, up from the 550 members of the Class of 2010 who donated before their grad­uation. He said while the Emergency Assistance Fund is the sponsored fund of the class, seniors can choose to donate to other areas of the University as well. 
Ann Healey said her family is touched Kevin has not been forgotten and grateful to know this fund will be in place to assist future Notre Dame fami­lies going through similar situ­ations as hers once did. 
“As Kevin’s mom, I would encourage all seniors and their parents to support this fund if for no other reason than being grateful for their four years at Notre Dame,” she said. “It really is the most amazing place in the world.” 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, May 3, 2011 
COMM professors to leave Saint Mary’s 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Vince and Linda Berdayes, married professors in the Communication Studies, Dance and Theatre Department at Saint Mary’s, will say their final farewells to the College at the end of this semester. 
“The most difficult aspect of leaving Saint Mary’s for us is 
leaving the stu­dents. We know how fortunate we have been to work with such bright, focused and kind people as are our stu ­dents,” Vince and Linda Berdayes said in an email statement. “We also really appreciate the value of single-sex education 
and will miss teaching at a college for women.” 
Vince Berdayes accepted a position as department chair of the Communication Studies Department at Barry 
University in Miami Shores, Fl. Linda Berdayes retired from Saint Mary’s and subse ­quently accept­ed a position at Barry University as the director of the Masters Program in Liberal Studies. 
During their 16 years at Saint Mary’s, both Vince and Linda Berdayes 

“We feel good about both our contributions to the Department of Communication Studies, as well as the larger Saint Mary’s community.” 
Linda Berdayes professor Communication Studies 
“It will be a sad loss to the Communication Studies Department when the Berdayes’ depart. However, I know that they will have success in the future wherever they go.” 
Terri Russ assistant professor Communication Studies 
said they 
accomplished many goals they hoped to achieve. 
“We feel good about both 
our contributions to the Department of Communication Studies, as 
w e l l  a s  th e  l a r g er  S a i n t  
M a ry ’s c o m m u n i t y, ”  L i n d a  
Berdayes said.  

Students from around the College said the pair will be missed in the department and around campus. 
“Vince is my advisor and Linda is the advisor for film studies, which is my minor, making me feel lost a tiny bit. I just hope that they can find professors to pick up where they left off, especially because the curriculum has been changed this year. I wish them the best in their new ventures, and they will be missed greatly,” Sara Gray, a Communication Studies major, said. 
Vince Berdayes served as chair of the Department of Communication Studies, Dance and Theatre the last four years and provided lead­
ership to faculty in each of the three disci ­plines. He played a key role in oversee­ing the revision 
of the Communication Studies curricu­lum. 
Vince Berdayes also helped establish the student-run campus televi­sion station SMC -TV and 
program, Linda Berdayes taught the sen­ior qualitative research sequence of courses the past four years, and her stu ­dents presented their research at multiple con­ferences. Linda Berdayes also helped estab ­lish the Film Studies minor and served as a past chair for the Faculty 
Assembly and as a member of the General Education Curriculum Committee, among other positions. 
“It will be a sad loss to the Communication Studies Department when the Berdayes’ depart. However, I know that they will have suc­cess in the future wherever they go,” Terri Russ, assistant professor of Communication Studies, said. “I wish the best 
of luck to both Linda and Vince as they venture to Miami.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwick01@saintmarys.edu 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Groupdiscussessafetyissues 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 

As Campus Life Council 
(CLC) held its final meeting Monday after a school year that began with a number of highly publicized student arrests, its members dis ­cussed the progress made regarding on-and off-cam­pus safety. 
Student body president emeritus Catherine Soler recapped a recent presenta­tion she made to the Board of Trustees along with vice president emeritus Andrew Bell and former chief of staff Nick Ruof. 
“[We] presented on off ­campus relations and the two resolutions that we passed in here, as well as 
our agreement with the police,” she said. “We also talked about sexual assault ... to bring it to their atten­tion that more needs to be done in that area. Obviously with what happened last week it’s still a very promi­nent problem on our cam­pus.” 
Soler read University Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle’s response let­ter to a CLC recommendation for Freshman Orientation reform. The letter stated the fall arrests highlighted a need for action regarding dents and vice presidents. student safety education, “We had our first meeting and the suggestions made by with our local law enforce-CLC would be considered ment heads and our new accordingly. leadership for next year, and 
“The off-campus incidents we discussed what we want 
b e t w e e n  o u r  t o  d o  t o  b e  
s t u d e n t s l o c a l  a n d l a w  “I think that’s just  proactive this f a l l a n d j u s t  
e n f o r c e m e n t d u r i n g t h e s u m m e r a n d  really a sign of how much our willingness  h a v e b e t t e r c o m m u n i c a ­tion off-cam- 
f a l l  o f  2 0 1 0  to work with the  p u s , ”  S o l e r  
b r o u g h t i n t o high relief the importance of o u r b e i n g  police will hopefully pay off for us in the future.”  s a i d . “ E v e r y o n e w a s r e a l l y excited to be  
p r o a c t i v e  w o r k i n g  o n  
regarding off-campus safety o f a l l o f o u r s t u d e n t s , ”  Catherine Soler student body president emeritus  t h e s a m e page.” S o l e r s a i d feedback from  

Doyle said in the letter. “Based on your observations and resolution, leadership from the Division of Student Affairs, together with Mike Seamen and the Department 
of Campus Safety, will undertake a review of the various dimensions of stu­dent safety that are current­ly part of orientation and hall staff training.” 
Soler also offered an update on the latest meeting with local and state law enforcement. She said the meeting was the first to include both the former and current student body presi­law enforce ­
ment repre ­sentatives reaffirmed the success of her administra­tion’s work with community and police relations. 
“One of the heads from the Indiana State Excise Police commented that they’d like to use this model of meeting with students at other uni­versities in Indiana,” she said. “I think that’s just real­ly a sign of how much our willingness to work with the police will hopefully pay off for us in the future.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
served on the advisory board for the interdisciplinary minor in Intercultural Studies for more than 10 years. 
As an influential member of the Communication Studies 



Tuesday, May 3, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Kaufman said. “These were mostly young people whose 
Terror 

prime concern was socioeco­continued from page 1 nomic issues, questions of cor­
ruption.” the region. He said leaders Overall, Shahin said the region always understood there were recognizes the importance the two separate tasks at hand. killing of bin Laden holds for 
“United States politicians and Americans. political thinkers — those who “Most people in the Middle make the decisions — they sepa-East understand the horrendous rated between the manhunt and nature of the attacks of Sept. 11 United States ground strategy and the tragic impact they had with regards to Afghanistan,” on the American people,” Shahin Kaufman said. “These were two said. “The killing of bin Laden different things.” comes after a decade-long con-
Despite this separation, frontation between the United Professor of Religion, Conflict States and al-Qaida. This all and Peacebuilding Emad Shahin would be understood.” said the American military On the domestic front, attack which resulted in bin American Studies Professor Jack Laden’s death might have yield-Colwell said bringing bin Laden on campus when he heard the that Our Lady is watching over ed major results in terms of for-to justice might smooth over news. him and all the troops.” 
Students 

eign policy. relations between Republicans “It is a win for justice,” Kevin Senior Christopher Bennet, a 
“The war against terror will and Democrats. continued from page 1 Garcia said. “It is a win for native of Pelham, N.Y., remem­continue but I think the removal “I think this is a unifying America.” bers the billowing towers of of bin Laden could be considered moment, and there have been this was something that was Kevin Garcia will return to smoke rising from nearby New as a major step in ending this few of those, so it is a plus, some worth getting really, really Iraq May 11. York City when the World Trade war,” Shahin said. progress,” he said. “The debt excited about.” “It’s going to be interesting Centers were attacked in 2001. 
Shahin said Western nations ceiling and the budget will still Dolan said he called his older because it is not a hierarchical “Retribution and revenge should anticipate a violent retali-be a pretty fierce partisan fight, sister and was surprised when organization, al-Qaida,” Kevin were not the motivating factors ation from militant organizations but I think it may prevent some he became emotional. Garcia said. “It’s a network.” that came out of that day for in the region. of the nastier personal attacks “It’s finally over,” he said to He said he built positive rela-me,” Bennett said. “Rather, I 
“It is possible that we should on the president.” his sister. tionships with the Iraqi commu-realized that the world can be expect some kind of response In addition to bipartisan rela-Growing up with the full nity near his base, and he antic-dangerous. There is a need for from radical and terrorist organ-tions, Colwell said Obama might weight of September 11th and ipated the local people would people to step up and izations that have been inspired personally benefit as president. its impact on his life was chal-have a positive reaction to bin protect each other, and a need by the teachings and persona of “It’s certainly a big plus for lenging, and Dolan said he typi-Laden’s death. for greater awareness of our bin Laden,” Shahin said. “They President Obama. I think his cally did not talk to others “Most of the people in Iraq, I surroundings in the increasing might take some violent action approval ratings will go up,” he about his experience. would say 90 percent, are good globalized world.” against United States and said. “Whether they will stay up “It’s really hard finding your-people,” he said. “There are Bennett joined the Army European interests in the remains to be seen, but I think it self, especially when something maybe 10 percent who are ROTC program as a freshman region.” is a big plus for right now.” that big happens to American malicious … but overall I’m at Notre Dame. He will be com-
Though some extremist groups This political boost will aid and then you are part of it, you sure their reaction will be good. missioned as a Second may look for retribution on the Obama as he gears up for never really know how to deal They are targeted as much as Lieutenant in the Tennessee United States, Kaufman said the reelection in 2012, Colwell said. with it,” he said. we are.” Army National Guard upon fractured nature of al-Qaida “It makes it harder for Now, Dolan said he found a Kevin Garcia said the success graduation and will eventually means bin Laden’s death has lit-Republican opponents who are sense of closure. of the mission to find and kill serve as a Reconnaissance tle impact on how the organiza-potentially getting ready to run “Just the fact that Osama bin bin Laden would renew the Platoon Leader for his unit in tion will operate in the future. for president to attack Obama as Laden is dead, I feel like that is energy back in his Iraqi base. Tennessee. 
“Most intelligence analysts weak and indecisive on national a chapter of your life that finally “I guarantee the morale is “Personally, I joined the mili­think after he had to hide, security and foreign policy,” he closes,” he said. pretty high,” he said. “We have tary hoping to prevent horrific Osama bin Laden lost his rele-said. “That becomes very diffi-His father’s death and the been searching for this guy for acts like that vance as a leader. Al-Qaida cult to do now because he was attacks of September 11th moti-10 years.” from happening again and to changed structure completely,” not weak in this at all, and clear-vated Dolan toward his future Mike Garcia said he immedi-assist those in need if a devas-Kaufman said. “There are now ly not indecisive.” career. ately thought of his brother tating event does occur,” so many al-Qaida cells around Colwell said bin Laden’s death “It definitely has inspired me when he heard the news about Bennett said. the world that they do not really not only benefits the president’s for the rest of my life. I want to bin Laden’s death. Bennett said he learned of bin receive their orders from a cen-political prospects but the spirit work for the government, and “That’s my brother,” he said. Laden’s death through a tral command. The al-Qaida of of the nation as well. I’m majoring in Arabic and “He’s an American hero.” friend’s Twitter feed and major 2001 is not the al-Qaida of “I think it gets the country feel-political science,” Dolan said. “I Mike Garcia said while he news outlets. 2011.” ing a little better about itself,” he want to work in the Middle was initially uncertain about As he prepares for a future in 
Shahin said recent revolution-said. “It seemed like everything East.” celebrating a death, he did cele-the military, Bennett echoed ary movements showed bin was negative, with the economy Dolan said he wanted the brate a victory for justice. Obama’s message from his Laden’s mantra does not hold and people worrying about world to understand that Islam “We are celebrating justice, Sunday address that the terror-much traction in the Middle whether they will get a job if is not the face of terrorism. and when we do that I feel that ist leader’s death does not end East. they are unemployed, sending “I want to be able to go and it is good,” he said. “It is good to the war on terror. 
“People in the Middle East there kids to college, pension.” work against the people that celebrate something … that will “There are many service have been involved in their America’s gloom needed the are actually the bad people and save lives.” members deployed abroad, far peaceful, pro-democracy move-boost the terrorist leader’s at the same time show them Mike Garcia said he worries from friends and family. They ments which, in their methods of demise provided, Colwell said. that the majority of the 1.5 bil-about an escalation of violence will not be coming home today non-violence, have discredited “There seemed to be a lot of lion people who are Muslims — as a result of the terrorist or tomorrow,” Bennett said. the violent methods of al-Qaida pessimism and suddenly there is they are good people,” he said. leader’s death, but he supports “Rather, they will continue and bin Laden,” Shahin said. this big positive thing. It really “From here, I want to work his brother in his military working to make the world a 
Kaufman said political has helped the mood of the towards that goal.” career. safer place. Please remember progress in the region shows its country and how it feels about Kevin Garcia, a 2009 gradu-“It has been tough. You never them and their efforts, as well people are primarily concerned itself. It was a big boost for patri-ate from Notre Dame, was on a know what is happening over as the service members who with advancing standards of liv-otism.” 15-day leave from his tour in there and [Kevin] can only talk have been wounded or killed.” ing, not extremist movements. Iraq when he learned of bin to us every other week,” Mike 
“These revolutions show they Contact Sam Stryker at Laden’s death. He was visiting Garcia said. “We just keep Contact Megan Doyle at were not motivated by al-Qaida,” sstryke1@nd.edu his brother, senior Mike Garcia, praying for him … We know mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Interns 
continued from page 1 
directly related to politics. 
“I called his office and I asked if they offered any internships because he’s my state senator,” she said. “They gave me a list of options. I went into it planning to eventually try both [the Celina internship and the Columbus internship] because they said that they offered different experiences and different learning opportuni­ties.” 
Becker said she is looking for­ward to meeting other local politi­cians. 
“Since [Faber] is in the Senate leadership, he works a lot with the directors of the different Ohio departments, in particular, [those in] the Department of Agriculture, the governor and the lieutenant governor,” she said. “I’m excited to work with other offices outside of the Senate and possibly work with Gov. [John R.] Kasich.” 
Notre Dame’s Department of Political Science prepared Becker for her summer experiences by training her to write effectively and efficiently and by teaching her about governmental struc­ture, she said. 
“Last summer I would make campaign materials for [Faber], and it was really useful to be able to whip out a newsletter in an afternoon,” Becker said. “The other thing is when you’re answering people’s questions or trying to figure out what to put in a newsletter, you need to know the structure of how government works. It can be a lot more intri­cate and complicated than it looks on the surface.” 
Sophomore and political sci­ence major Gordon Stanton said this summer he will work as an organizer at the Massachusetts branch of Organizing for America, President Barack Obama’s reelection campaign. 
“The organization is based out of Boston, but I’ll probably be working in my home area, which is New Bedford,” he said. “It will be sort of back and forth between the two.” 
Stanton said he’s looking for­ward to building connections and learning about grassroots organ­izing and campaign-building. He said he thinks his involvement with the College Democrats of Notre Dame has helped prepare him for the internship. 
“I made a lot of phone calls and knocked on doors for [Congressman] Joe Donnelly’s [reelection] campaign in the fall, and I’ve made phone calls and knocked on doors for Pete Buttigieg for the [South Bend] mayor’s race recently,” he said. 
Junior political science and eco­nomics major Pete Elliott was an intern for the Indiana State Republican Party in 2008. 
“It was called the House Campaign Committee, so I was working for the House of Representatives of the State Legislature for the Indiana General Assembly,” he said. “My job there was to help with a can­didate’s campaign for election. It was 2008, so it was a bad year to be Republican.” 
Elliott will work as an assistant in the Indianapolis Prosecutor’s Office this summer. 
“I’d like to work in criminal law someday, so I’ve been really inter­ested in the criminal justice sys­tem, and I figured there’s no bet­ter way to learn than being part of it for the summer,” he said. 
Elliot said one of his classes focused on how the American government enforces laws and prepared him significantly for the internship. He also said his research experience reviewing witness statements and police records from The Troubles, a late 20th century period of conflict in Northern Ireland, has prepared him as well. 
Elliott added he is excited to learn how the criminal justice system truly works. 
“There are a lot of perceptions that are influenced by media,” he said. “You don’t get to see how the justice system really works. I’ve always been interested in how the state enforces rules. I’m also excited to meet some of the people involved in that and hope­fully have them get to know me as well.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, May 3, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

My wonder cure 
We all have weird tips and tricks that we wholeheartedly believe have healing powers. My mom prescribes Motrin, a hot bath and an early bed­time for everything from a cold to a 
broken bone. My dad loves to tell me to “walk it off,” even if “it” is a sprained ankle. And on occasion, these solutions do work. 
I’ve heard other home cures, 


too. Some  Mary Claire O’Donnell  
people drink  
juice at alarm- Interim Scene  
ing rates.  Editor  
Others exer­ 
cise or believe  

in the restorative powers of Brie. Whatever your treatment, no matter how crazy, it helps — even if it’s just because you’re convinced it does. 
My wonder cure is a little unorigi­nal, pretty much stolen right from the pages of an old wives’ tale. To me, though, this gives it more credence and medicinal power and makes me believe more in the magical powers I assign to it, since most tales have a grain of truth to them. My wonder cure is ginger ale. 
Most people associate ginger ale with childhood sickness. It was the drink of choice, accompanied by crackers, for any day spent on the couch with a 24-hour bug. Even now, for me, that is what flat ginger ale represents. But straight-out-of-the­vending machine bottles mean so much more. 
From sore throats to caffeine headaches, chills to dehydration, gin­ger ale has cured many ailments for me throughout the years, both by placebo effect and the natural quali­ties of ginger root. There’s nothing better to put my mind and stomach at ease than a cold bottle or can of Canada Dry Ginger Ale, even if I can’t use my Flex Points to cure anything that ails me. 
And coming from a confessed caf­feine addict, to count any uncaffeinat­ed beverage among my favorites is a big deal. I’ve been on a steady caf­feine diet since 16 and haven’t looked back. But there is something to be said for the cool, carbonated deli­ciousness of Canada Dry — I’ve got to hydrate myself somehow. 
Although ginger ale works wonders for me, the idea may repulse you. We each have our own magical remedies, so find what works for you. It’s all mostly mental anyways, so make something you love work for you. But also, if you’re really sick, go to the doctor. No one wants to sit through you sniffling or hacking up a lung in class. 
And beware when you go abroad, the exotic country to which you are traveling may not stock your drug of choice. My friend Ro and I hit up every grocery and convenience store we could in Italy and Spain to no avail; apparently, Europeans haven’t discovered the healing powers of gin­ger ale. And while I comforted myself with more caffeine — when in Rome, drink the coffee, right? — this solu­tion was not ideal. So, if possible, sneak that food in with you. Your body will thank you for that decision later. 
Mary Claire O'Donnell can be reached at modonne5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Full disclaimer: this is one of those sappy, oh-my-god-I-can’t-believe-I’m grad­uating columns. Feel free to stop reading now if you’re not into that. 
So … here we are. Soon, I’m going to be graduating and … I 
Andy Ziccarelli 
made it. Here we are. I have mixed feelings 
Moment 
about graduating. Part 
of Inertia 
of me is ready (and has been for quite some time) to move on to the real world, while the other part wants to stay in the relative­ly shielded Notre Dame bubble forever. 
It is funny that I am even in this situa­tion, because I was never supposed to be here in the first place. You know those lit­tle kids whose parents dress them up in their alma mater’s cheerleading outfits and football jerseys? Yeah, that was me and my sisters. Except we weren’t wear­ing Notre Dame outfits. 
But, whether I was supposed to make it here or not, I am. Has it been all fun and roses the last four years? Absolutely not. Have there been times when I wondered what it would be like if I went somewhere else? Definitely (usually as I wandered, unsuccessfully, looking for a dorm party freshman year or spent most of my Friday nights in the library as a junior). But then I think back to all of the people I met and all of the stories I have from the past four years, and those seem like minor speed bumps. 
We might occasionally lose sight of this fact, but going to Notre Dame is cool — really cool. At my internship last summer, I met kids from all over the country, including kids who went to Arizona State and Nebraska, among others. When I told them I went to Notre Dame, their jaws almost hit the floor. We are living out an experience that most could only ever dream about at a place that is real only in 

Here we are  
the movies or on TV to most people. But it  in without you.  
couldn’t have happened without so many  Thank you to the dining hall card- 
critical people that I would be remiss if I  swipers and the omelet-makers for the  
didn’t thank them for everything that they  exact same ham, onion and cheese omelet  
have done for me.  I always get. You are all probably sick of  
Thank you to Fr. Paul Doyle for making  me, seeing as how I am probably the only  
Dillon Hall my home for the past four  person on campus that gets breakfast  
years, despite the closet-sized rooms.  every morning.  
Thank you to the Dillon Hall Class of  Thank you to Robert Hughes for running  
2011, both those that stayed on campus  with such reckless abandon, to USC  
and those who have since moved off. You  receiver Ronald Johnson for dropping a  
guys are the brothers that I never had  surefire touchdown and to Kyle McCarthy  
growing up.  for making a game-sealing interception at  
Thank you to the Gentleman’s Club, for  USC last November. It has been a long  
keeping it classy with me the last three  time since I have felt that happy at the end  
years.  of a football game, and it made me forget  
Thank you to all of my professors in the  (for a while anyway) how cold and wet I  
Department of Civil Engineering and  was in the Coliseum.  
Geological Sciences. My biggest concern  Thank you to everyone that maintains  
about coming to Notre Dame out of high  campus and keeps it beautiful. We take it  
school was its lack of a reputation as an  for granted, but our campus is one of the  
“engineering school.” I had a number of  most beautiful places in the world, and it  
people question me about my decision to  is only because of all of your hard work.  
come here as a prospective engineer, and  Thank you to my wonderful girlfriend  
it was unsettling. However, the instruction  for laughing at my goofy jokes, listening to  
that I received and the education I gained  me rant and for always being there for  
here far surpassed anything I could have  me, no matter what.  
ever hoped for. I am supremely confident  And thank you to the staff of The  
in my abilities and that is a direct result of  Observer for giving me an opportunity to  
all of the knowledge and hard work of my  write. I have loved every minute of it, and I  
professors. You guys really are the best, no  couldn’t have done it without the faith and  
matter what anyone says.  trust that you guys had in me.  
Thank you to all of the Bengal Bouts  There are a million people that I am for- 
captains, coaches and managers for all  getting, but that doesn’t mean that you are  
that you have done over the years. I need- any less important. I’m going to miss you  
ed some way to channel my competitive- all in the real world. It’s been my pleasure  
ness and the Bouts provided the perfect  writing for campus the last few years. Best  
outlet for me. Also, thanks to the EMTs for  of luck to the Class of 2011, and Go Irish!  
having the patience to stop my bloody  
noses pretty much every time I ever  Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in  
sparred.  civil engineering. He can be reached at  
Thank you to the morning ladies at  aziccare@nd.edu  
Recker’s for serving me literally gallons of  The views expressed in this Inside  
coffee over the years. I don’t know how  Column are those of the author and not  
many lectures I would have fallen asleep  necessarily those of The Observer.  

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

“God, Country, Notre Dame” 
Last night, the world discovered Osama bin Laden was finally hunted down and killed. Notre Dame’s campus exploded in revelry and the campus was the most patriotic that I have seen it. Amongst all the celebration and rendi­tions of “Courtesy of the Red White and Blue” and Team America’s theme song, it is important to see how this event has affected some of our peers. If you haven’t had the honor of meeting my roommate let me introduce you to him. 
His name is Robert Dolan III but everybody calls him “Beau.” Beau is a fantastic Roman Catholic family man. He has a loving mother and a wonderful sister. Beau is a true Irishman and proves it through his academic prowess. He is a great Otter in Sorin College and even helped the Otters take the Inter-hall football championship. 
Underlying all these things, Beau has had to live without his father since 9/11. Beau’s father was killed in the Pentagon on 9/11 and his life was obviously shak­en tremendously. This tragedy has 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I object to violence because when itappears to do good, the good is onlytemporary; the evil it does ispermanent.” 
Gandhi Indian political and spiritual leader 

forced Beau to be above and beyond whatever an ordinary son or brother should be. He has held his family togeth­er as the only man of the house for almost 10 years. In September of this year, Beau struggled with the fact that it was the half-way point in his life where he had his father for less than half of his life. Last night, however, as America tri­umphed over the death of one signifi­cant antagonist, Beau rose to a whole new level. 
Beau joined in with the rest of Notre Dame in celebrating the death of the man responsible for his father's death, but once the celebration reached the Golden Dome, Beau felt moved to speak. Beau, at the feet of Mary the Mother of God, spoke to hundreds of fellow Irish men and women and told them what this death meant to his family. Beau glowed with patriotism: he spoke his beliefs, his love for America. Toward the end of his triumphant moment, Beau held a moment of silence. He brought the Irish community together and made “God, Country, Notre Dame” a reality. 

Osama is in God’s hands now. Beau has found at least a degree of peace in the death of the most infamous mass murder that America has known per­sonally. For one night, I saw my room­mate glow with joy knowing that the man who tore his life apart on 9/11/01 could never again harm another human being. 
Now that Osama is dead, I worry about my sister and the retaliation she may face in Afghanistan in the next few months, but I trust in God to do His will 
— nothing more and nothing less. God bless the Dolan family. God bless the troops fighting terror for the sake of freedom. God bless the Catholic hub of Notre Dame. And lastly, of course, God bless the light of freedom in the world: The United States of America. 
Johnny Whichard 
freshman Sorin College May 2 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“All truth passes through three stages. First, it is ridiculed. Second, it is violently opposed. Third, it isaccepted as being self-evident. 
Arthur SchopenhauerGerman philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, May 3, 2011 page 7 
Reaction to Osama bin Laden’s death justified? 
The purpose of my first Letter to the Editor ever as a senior here at Notre Dame pertains to the news broadcasted around the world of Osama bin Laden’s death by assassination carried out by the United States, in particu­lar the reaction of Gerard T. Orozco the Notre Dame student body Guest Columnist and a lot of Americans. Watching the news on Sunday night felt like eons as the presiden­tial address to the entire world was delayed numerous times. I first felt scared for the news, apparently about national security, to come until Wolf Blitzer described the address could in fact be good news. There was then a sense of ease put into my mind of the coming news. 
When it was announced that the U.S. Military had successfully assassinated Osama bin Laden, I didn’t see myself jump­ing for joy. I heard crowds gathering out­side and yelling in the hallways, “America! U.S.A.!” but sat in front of the television puzzled, asking myself if there was some­thing wrong with me for not joining in. I felt something troubling and frankly wrong with the shouting and parading of some Notre Dame students, and the rest of America shown on TV, over the death of this man. Osama bin Laden was no doubt a carrier of hatred and responsible for orchestrating the deaths of innocent people around the world. 
But it makes me wonder, since when is an assasination, regardless of how “bad” someone is, reason for celebration? As a Catholic, the very act of killing is a grave doing, but to act as many Notre Dame stu­dents and Americans did last night was arrogant and out of character for a country priding itself on being “better,” and a uni­versity priding itself on everything. 
An article released Monday May 2, 2011 reporting The Vatican’s view of such reac­tions stated, “… the killing of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden, a man who sowed division and hatred and who caused ‘innumerable’ deaths, should prompt seri­ous reflection about one’s responsibility before God. A Christian ‘never rejoices’ in the face of a man’s death, the Vatican spokesman, Father Federico Lombardi said.”As I laid in bed Sunday night images on TV of American “patriotism” reminded me of something I had seen before. I remember seeing images on TV in the past depicting massive foreign crowds burning the U.S. flag or even the hateful hoards of people hitting and shooting already dead downed American pilots. What makes last night’s scenes different? The idea and excuse that “He did wrong to the U.S., so the U.S. retaliation MUST be correct,” gets old and only goes so far. In fact, last night’s scenes of “patriotism” were only different than the images described above by the flag that was being supported and people carrying it. 

Responders to my objections may consid­er the fact that there was unity in the coun­try. Unity, something so valued in America especially after September 11, 2001. I have no objection to the unity of my country and my fellow Americans, but one must ask, “Does American unity, in a country that lacks such, justify these means?” 
I believe not — if the means of such unity are that of bloodshed, I do not care to be united. The belief that American unity was the most important factor in Sunday night’s reactions, even if it was the most evident, depicts an American public so fixated on attaining much-needed patriotism and unity regardless of how it was attained. I love my homeland and I love when there is unity, but there has always been a reason to object and stand for individual morals, even against the actions of the United States. 
The killing of Osama bin Laden cannot be said to be a political victory for the U.S., or even an “advantage to President Obama’s re-election campaign.” So why are the peo­ple of America so happy at this man’s death? Never is the assassination and mur­der of another human being “justice.” To think we as men have that ability and right shows our arrogance and fatal flaw as a country and possibly world. Is it so hard not to kill a man that has done wrong, committed atrocities and, before death, gotten away with it? 
The truth is that Osama bin Laden is dead but to react in such a way exhibited by some Notre Dame students and some Americans on Sunday night is completely wrong. There is an obsession with control and justice in this country that has led to a lot of Americans thinking it is perfectly okay for the president of the United States to, “give the order” to kill another man. There should be no such thing, and it sad­dens me that such lack of realization of this reality and more so, support, could ever happen on the campus of Our Lady. 
Gererd T. Orozco is a senior studying aerospace engineering. He can be reached at gorozco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Celebrate death? 
While the death of Osama bin Laden is truly a notable event in the history of our country, I do not believe that it is a moment for celebration. Most of us here are U.S. citizens, but we are all citizens of the human race and that obligates us to uphold basic human rights for everyone, especially those that we hate. We as human beings should never celebrate the death of another human being — doing so reduces us to barbarians. Instead, the death of Osama bin Laden should be an opportuni­ty to demonstrate how we are different from the terrorists, in that we do not exult in the deaths of our enemies. The images of us celebrating in the street strongly remind me of the images of the terrorists exulting in the deaths of our armed men and women. When we view these images, we typically reason that these terrorists are inhuman, insomuch as they are celebrating a death. It appears that we are no different from them. The celebration, taunting and Facebook-posting, do nothing more than relegate us to the moral ground that we usually reserve for the terrorists. As the creator of the cartoon “Pogo,” Walt Kelly, said, “We have met the enemy, and he is us.” 
Timothy Bontrager 
freshman St. Edward’s Hall May 3 

On our hands 
I read the news this morning that Osama bin Laden was killed yesterday. Am I supposed to be happy? Am I supposed to be thrilled or relieved? As a Christian, how should I feel? Killing is prohibited in the 10 Commandments, and it is some­thing Jesus wasn’t a big fan of. Should we have crucified bin Laden instead so that he would feel our pain? Yes, his death might lead to a better chance at world peace, but what would Jesus do? What does Jesus think about this? 
I believe it is in times like these that we are asked, what does it really mean to be Christian? Should we retaliate against our enemies as we have? Is that part of the New Testament teach­ings? This is Easter; this is the time to reflect on our Baptismal vows. I just renewed mine a little over a week ago. So now what? The biggest enemy of the U.S. since Hitler is dead, but the blood is on our hands. How should I feel as a Christian? What should I do next? How do I love my enemies? 
I know some people won’t have even questioned it, but it is weighing on my heart. I would love to celebrate, but do we cel­ebrate when we put people to death via capital punishment here? As Christians, do we celebrate murder? Just think about it, and maybe we can take a suggestion from the One whose body and blood we take each week. 
Robert McKeon 
Ph.D. Alumni, 2010 Ambrige, PA May 3 

“All who take the sword will perish by the sword” 
This past Sunday was Divine Mercy Sunday. It was a day to reflect and give thanks for God?s mercy. It was a day in which we remember how Christ, while nailed to the cross, did not curse his oppressors. On the contrary, Our Lord cried out, “Father, forgive them, they know not what they do” (Luke 23:34). Until his last breath, Jesus forgave; he showed mercy. It is for this reason that I was saddened to see Notre Dame students celebrating the death of Osama bin Laden in such an immature manner. 
While bin Laden was a man responsible for one of the most tragic events in this nation’s history, he was still a human being. Notre Dame administrators and students alike pride them­selves in their “pro-life” position. Unfortunately, it appears pro-life only means anti-abortion. A true pro-life position values all life, not just the innocent. We as Christians should never praise death. Death is something that is always regret­table no matter the circumstances. 
We ought also to remember Christ’s words to Peter in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus told Peter to put his sword away at the last critical moment. If ever there was ever a justifiable reason to resort to violence it was to save the Son of God. But Christ commanded the exact opposite, “Put your sword back into its sheath, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword” (Mt. 26:52). Christ’s words here are telling of what abiding in His Spirit means. 
My position here is not that bin Laden was not a man who committed heinously evil actions. Nor am I saying he did not deserve to be brought to justice. My argument is that we should think before we act. Would Jesus Christ have planned a party celebrating someone’s death? I think not. Therefore, I cannot in good conscience do the same. If celebrating in anoth­er human being’s death is patriotism, then I wear the title “unpatriotic” with pride and I urge my fellow Notre Dame students to do like­wise. Peace and God Bless. 
Brent Modak 
senior 
off campus 
May 3 

Human solidarity lacking 
Before any other words are written, let us remember the sons and daughters of America who have sacrificed their lives for our security. Let us pray that we will not be faced with more of our troops’ lives being taken away in the future. 
“Osama bin Laden is dead.” 

Facebook helped me conceptualize this “break­ing news.” 
People’s index fingers seemed to be on fire as I witnessed record “like” hits on various cheers like “Justice done!” and “KILLLLL.” Osama bin Laden stands for the al Qaida, 9/11, and the con­stant fear of terrorists. Borrowing President Obama’s words, bin Laden’s death “marks the most significant achievement to date in our nation’s effort to defeat al-Qiada.” At the end of this chase and in the middle of this “war,” America stands rejoicing. 
We have many emotional and personal ties to this event — some may have lost their families and friends in 9/11 and have loved ones in our troops. Many of us waited for this time of celebra­tion. 
However, I am even more afraid than before. 
I feel that we are forgetting that we have a future to live. Seeds of hatred have been sown, both by al-Qaida and us. 
Because this event only “marks … achieve­ment,” we cannot say that we promote a world with justice and peace. Justice may have been done to bin Laden. But let us not forget the inno­cent lives, especially of women and children, who perished away during our “operations.” Where was justice then? No wonder our international community hesitantly claps along. 
In this time of hyper-excitement, we must reevaluate ourselves: Is my reaction actually con­tributing to building a future in this world? How can we “create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good” as our beloved mission states? 
Edithstein Cho 
freshman Pasquerilla East Hall May 3 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, May 3, 2011 



By WARD PETTIBONE The film plays like a video game, with Scene Writer about as much plot development as Pac-Man. Snyder does his best to deliv­“Sucker Punch,” Zack Snyder’s latest er twists, but they are awkward and green-screen extravaganza and his first forced. The action sequences are attempt at original material, should impeccably choreographed but remain have been enjoyable. It has everything disengaging. The dialogue is consistent-that should make a movie appealing to ly banal and occasionally cringe-wor­a college-aged male. Yet, amazingly, the thy, and character development is non-combination of explosive action, loud existent. Normally, some of these faults music, attractive actresses and colorful could be forgiven. There are plenty of graphics completely fails to entertain. films that are absorbing without being Instead, it is a two-hour exercise in intelligent or even well-crafted — tedium and redundancy. unfortunately “Sucker Punch” is none 
A young woman (Emily Browning), of these. nicknamed “Baby Doll,” is sent to a The only thing that saves this movie is mental institution after her mother’s its visual style. True, it is over-saturat­death. She retreats into a fantasy world ed, over-lit and over-stylized in general, 
— a brothel, of all places — in the days but in comparing shot and plot, the preceding her lobotomy. In this alter-camerawork is the lesser of two evils nate reality, she plans her escape. This and at times is quite inventive. The plan involves dancing, which somehow soundtrack is serviceable, though most sends her and four companions into yet of it is obscured by the mayhem it another alternate reality (several of accompanies. Perhaps the best way to them, actually), where they battle enjoy Sucker Punch is to turn off the clockwork Nazi zombies, giant demon sound, watch the pretty pictures and samurai and other such enemies. This not bother trying to figure out what is will facilitate their escape from the going on. brothel, and, in turn, from the institu-Plot and camerawork aside, Sucker tion. It’s as if Snyder retrofitted Punch’s fatal flaw is its unabashed sex­“Inception” into a comic book he was ism. Snyder has called it an embodi­planning and decided it would be fun to ment of feminism. Take a look at the make a movie out of it instead. costumes and then say that with a 
There are five items the girls must straight face. recover if they are to escape, and each A lot can be done with two hours and item is accompanied by a dance (which $82 million. Sadly, “Sucker Punch” does we see as a battle in a cathedral, on a very little. It could have been inventive, train, in trenches, etc.). This quickly exciting, memorable — after all, the becomes repetitive and the interludes, tagline is “You will be unprepared.” which mainly consist of the girls dis-Well, allow me to prepare you: the cussing the urgency of their situation, film’s most astounding accomplishment do little to recapture our interest. Other is that it has all the makings of a sum-characters from the “real world” insti-mer blockbuster and still manages to tution are present, with some changes, put viewers to sleep. in the brothel-world: a psychologist becomes a dance instructor, an orderly Contact Ward Pettibone at becomes a pimp, a lobotomist becomes wpettibo@nd.edu a client. The parallels are hardly subtle, but then, no one expected them to be. 
Baby Doll’s plan follows its course rather predictably, with predictable set­backs and predictable turning points. All of this happens without actually allowing a story to develop. Likewise, despite the valiant efforts of a few of the actors, the characters remain res­olutely flat. 
Snyder’s previous films include “300” and “Watchmen.” Both were based on graphic novels, and the material was well served by Snyder’s distinctive visu­al style. “Sucker Punch” reveals that, left to his own devices, he doesn’t have much else to offer. 
“Sucker Punch”  
Directed by: Zack Snyder Starring: Emily Browning, Abbie Cornish, Jenna Malone, Vanessa Hudgens, Jamie Chung, Carla Gugino  





BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, May 3, 2011 page 9 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, May 3, 2011 
NBA 

Kings to remain in Sacramento for another season 
Associated Press 
The Kings and the NBA gave Sacramento one last chance to prove it deserves to be an NBA city. 
Now it’s up to Mayor Kevin Johnson and the business com­munity to come up with a viable plan for a new arena after so many failed attempts in the past. 
“This is one of the proudest moments of my life because the community believed when no one else did,” Johnson said Monday. “We kept believing. And if you believe, anything is possible.” 
The decision by the Maloof family to keep their team in Sacramento rather than apply for relocation to Anaheim, Calif., is only temporary. Co-owner Joe Maloof and NBA Commissioner David Stern made clear that the team will leave after next season if an arena plan is not in place. 
“We spent 13 years and mil­lions of dollars to try to get an arena built,” Maloof said. “We don’t have the answer. The mayor has the answers and we’re willing and able to listen. He’s got to have a plan. We never want to be untruthful to the fans of Sacramento. There is a sense of urgency, and that’s up to Mayor Johnson and his political team.” 
Stern praised Johnson, a for­mer NBA All-Star, for his Herculean effort at mobilizing the community to keep the team. Stern’s support for another chance for Sacramento is a far cry from his stance during the All-Star break in February, when he said the league would spend no more time trying to get an arena built in California’s capital city. 
At that point, the Kings’ depar­ture seemed almost inevitable. But after two extensions of a March 1 deadline for relocation, and Johnson’s efforts to arrange $10 million in sponsorship pledges from the corporate com­munity, the city gets another chance. 
Stern said he is sending a team of nine league officials to Sacramento this week to assist with marketing, tickets and the arena. 
“We’re going to put all of our efforts in Sacramento and make it happen and make it succeed,” Stern said. “But if it can’t and this becomes yet the fifth or sixth or seventh, it will be the last as far as we’re concerned, for an effort in regards to an arena. I pledged support for a move to another market.” 
A feasibility study for a new arena in Sacramento is sched­uled to be completed later this month. There has always been a divide between Kings fans and the broader public on how to finance a facility. 
Four California lawmakers, including the leader of the state Senate, sent a letter to Stern last week pledging to work with local leaders over the next year to try to build a sports and performing arts complex to replace the Kings’ outdated arena. 
Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from Sacramento, said he would use his clout to make sure his district gets its share of state bond money that could go to build the complex. 
“We came away with a strong sense that this was worth the additional year because it seemed to us to be so important to the leaders of Sacramento that they would not allow the oppor­tunity to pass without getting it done,” Stern said. 
Sacramento was once a thriv­ing NBA franchise that produced sellout streaks of 497 and 354 straight games. The building for­merly known as Arco Arena pro­vided one of the most notorious home-court advantages in the league, a place where fans clanked cowbells so loud oppos­ing coaches and players pleaded to have the noisemakers banned. 
The Kings won an NBA-best 61 games in the 2001-02 season behind Chris Webber and Vlade Divac, losing to the eventual champion Lakers in the Western Conference finals at home in a decisive Game 7. 
Sacramento, with budget deficits and heavy job losses dur­ing the economic downturn, has turned down initiatives for years to contribute public dollars to replace or upgrade the aging arena. 
“If we want to be a major league city, you have to have major league facilities,” Johnson said. “And what you saw happen today and over the last couple of weeks, is the community stepped up and said we can make big things happen.” 
If Johnson’s plan doesn’t come to fruition, Anaheim could once again be an option for the Kings next year with the Honda Center and its luxury suites waiting in Orange County. 
Anaheim’s City Council already issued the bonds needed to entice the Kings to move, but the Maloofs decided to give Sacramento one more chance. 
“I think it’s the fair thing to do,” Maloof said. “We’ve always said we think Sacramento has the best NBA fans in the world. Their overwhelming show of support was incredible. But now they realize that we’re giving them another opportunity and we’re anxious to play basket­ball.” 
Maloof said he appreciated the support and encouragement from Anaheim officials and said he believed the city would get an NBA team in the future. 
Anaheim Mayor Tom Tait said his city proved it’s “NBA-ready” and should be considered its own market separate from Los Angeles, which already has the Lakers and Clippers. 
Stern praised Anaheim’s efforts and said he believes the city will one day have an NBA team. 
“This process only moved it along, rather than detracting from it,” Stern said. 
The Kings are coming off their fifth straight losing season, fin­ishing 24-58. With a core of young players led by 2009-10 Rookie of the Year Tyreke Evans and big man DeMarcus Cousins, the team believes the future can be bright. The Kings should have another high draft pick and room in the salary cap to add key pieces necessary to get back to the postseason. 
“Our future is very bright on the basketball court because of our young up-and-coming team,” Maloof said. “We’re going to have a top five pick and then we’re going to have a great amount of money to spend on free agents.” 
NHL 

Lightning remain cautious despite 2-0 series lead over Caps 
game,” the first-year coach said. The Capitals held an optional just over a minute left in regulation despite playing without injured left 
Associated Press 

“That’s what we try to do all year skate before traveling to Florida. to send Game 2 into overtime. wing Simon Gagne and defenseman 
The Tampa Bay Lightning aren’t long. We never try to look at stand-Only about a half-dozen players Lightning goaltender Dwayne Pavel Kubina, who remain day to impressed with their surprising 2-0 ings. We never stressed where we who appeared in Game 2 partici-Roloson continued to sparkle, stop-day. NHL playoff lead over the were in the big picture. We kept it pated. ping 35 of 37 shots while also help-Washington endured an eight-Washington Capitals. very limited to what we have to do. Ovechkin was not among them ing Tampa Bay’s penalty-kill unit game losing streak in December 
Coach Guy Boucher and his play-“I think it’s basically like walking and did not speak to reporters extend its success in the playoffs. and insists there’s no reason to ers know there’s still much work to on a tightrope. If you think you’re before the team flight. Coach Bruce “Pittsburgh was 1 for 35. We’re 0 panic. be done to pull off an upset in the high and you look down, you’ll start Boudreau and Ovechkin’s team-for 11. So they’ve got to be doing a “You’ve just got to keep plug-Eastern Conference semifinals. wobbling. If you look up because mates echoed the two-time league good job,” Boudreau said. “But I ging,” left wing Jason Chimera said. 
With the top-seeded Capitals you think you’re not good enough MVP’s contention that the Capitals still think we could generate more “We’ve been there before — this vowing to find a way to overcome you start wobbling, too, and you’ll not only are capable, but confident opportunities to score.” team’s won 14 in a row and nine in their slow start in the best-of-seven be shaky,” Boucher added. “You of bouncing back. The coach rejected the notion, a row, so we can do it.” matchup, the Lightning know first-just look ahead, and if you focus on “Well, they have to win four. And though, that Ovechkin has to do The Capitals even feel the series hand why they can’t take anything the task and what you need to do ... we have been in tough situations more if the Southeast Division schedule, which does not include a for granted when the series you tend to do things the right way.” this year, and we’ve bounced back. champions are going to come back day off between Games 3 and 4, resumes with Game 3 on Tuesday Vincent Lecavalier’s goal 6:19 into And we’re going in there to win to win the series. could work to their advantage. night. overtime gave the fifth-seeded Tuesday night,” Boudreau said. “I “Everybody wants more from Provided they first win Tuesday 
Tampa Bay rallied a 3-1 deficit to Lightning 3-2 victory Sunday night think the games have been so close Alex. I think he’s trying out there. night. eliminate the Pittsburgh Penguins and left the Capitals searching for that, I mean, it’s one move here, He’s working hard,” Boudreau said. “If there’s a team that can do it, in the first round. answers to what it will take to get one move there. ... It’s not like we’re “What are you going to say? ... We it’s our team,” defenseman John 
Boucher shrugged off a sugges-the team’s sputtering power-play on going to go in there and throw in need more from everybody. We Carlson said. “We got the guys in tion Monday that his team finds a track before the series gets away. the towel. We’re ready to play.” don’t just need more from Alex.” here — the workhorses in here — itself in a reverse role returning The Lightning had Monday off, The Capitals outshot the Tampa Bay’s power-play has pro-to do it. And I think back-to-back home after winning twice on the mindful that it needs to conserve as Lightning in each of the first two duced a goal in each of the first two games will be good for us. We get road to begin the series. much energy as possible with the games, however they’re 0-for-11 on games. Lecavalier scored twice and hot here, and then it’s back (to 
“It’s because for me, the roles are next two games being played on power-play opportunities and Martin St. Louis, a finalist for league Washington) for Game 5. We’ve got not reversed. For me, it’s one game, consecutive nights at the St. Pete Ovechkin has been limited to a sin-MVP, had his first goal of the series to do the same thing that they did to and every game’s a championship Times Forum. gle point on the goal he scored with as the Lightning claimed Game 2 us, really.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

House for rent. Faculty-grad stu-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't COME ON EILEEN moment you mean everything, dents near ND. 2BR 2.5BA, living go it alone. Notre Dame has many by DEXY’S MIDNIGHT RUNNERS With you in that dress my thoughts IFOR RENT room, dining room, fam room, FL NOTICES resources in place to assist you. If confess verge on dirty 
room. Security system. 2 car ———————————————— you or someone you love needs Poor old Johnny Ray Ah come on Eileen. $200 CREDIT: Future ARCHI-garage. Fenced yard. Colfax &amp; confidential support or assistance, Sounded sad upon the radio, he TECTS, ENGINEERS, TEACHERS, Twyckenham. Call 262-332-0015 please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. moved a million hearts in mono. These people round here wear LAWYERS, BARDS, AMERICAN If you or someone you care about For more information, visit ND's Our mothers cried and sang along beaten down eyes IDOLS and other studious ———————————————— has been sexually assaulted, we website at: http://pregnancysup-and who'd blame them. Sunk in smoke dried faces they're Bohemians, write your next solilo-3 bedroom close to SMC/ND. can help. For more information, visit port@nd.edu Now you're grown, so grown, now I so resigned to what their fate is, quy at one of our homes. Check Hardwood floors, laundry, bright and Notre Dames website: must say more than ever. But not us, no not us we are far too out: www.IrishDwellings.com to find spacious. No pets. Available mid http://csap.nd.edu Go Toora Loora Toora Loo-Rye-Aye young and clever. your home for summer and/or fall June. 269-429-6346 and we can sing just like our Remember Toora Loora Toora Loo­semester 2011-2012 and beyond. fathers. Rye-Aye 
Come on Eileen, Eileen I'll hum this tune forever. I swear (well he means) At this ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 
Tuesday, May 3, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

Study of brain sheds light on Duerson suicide 
McKee, Dr. Robert Cantu and and Spine Medical Committee 
Associated Press 
Dr. Robert Stern. will study today’s findings, and 

BOSTON — Dave Duerson, a Duerson’s case was “moder-as a league we will continue to former NFL player who commit-ately advanced,” McKee said. support the work of the scien­ted suicide in February, had “The likelihood is that if he had-tists at the Boston University “moderately advanced” brain n’t had the CTE, he wouldn’t Center and elsewhere to damage related to blows to the have developed those symptoms address this issue in a forthright head, according to the that he was experiencing at the and effective way.” researcher who made the diag-end of his life and perhaps he Duerson was a third-round nosis. wouldn’t have been compelled draft choice by the Bears out of 
“It’s indisputable” that to end his life.” Notre Dame in 1983. He played Duerson had chronic traumatic Cantu said that such results safety on the team that won the encephalopathy, a disorder normally are published first, but Super Bowl in the 1985 season. linked to repeated brain trau-the Duerson family wanted He moved to the New York ma, Dr. Ann McKee said them released earlier. Duerson’s Giants for one season in 1990, Monday. former wife, daughter and three playing in another Super Bowl, 
The findings were announced sons attended the news confer-then spent his last three NFL as part of an effort conducted ence. years with the Phoenix by the Center for the Study of “We have been given the gift Cardinals. Traumatic Encephalopathy at of closure,” said his son, Tregg. Cantu said there is no treat-Boston University’s School of “We accept this gift with great ment for CTE and research is Medicine. The CSTE Brain Bank humility, as we are mindful of being done to find ways to iden­has the brains of more than 70 other families that have lost tify it in living people. athletes and military veterans, loved ones and still bear the McKee compared the condi­with football players comprising burden of unanswered ques-tion of Duerson’s brain to those more than half of the athletes. tions.” of other NFL players studied by 
Duerson played safety in the Duerson had at least 10 con-the CSTE. NFL for 11 seasons, seven with cussions in his NFL career, The damage wasn’t as severe the Chicago Bears, and was according to his family, and lost as that seen in the brains of chosen for four Pro Bowls consciousness during some. Wally Hilgenberg, a Minnesota before retiring in 1993. However, he never was admit-Vikings linebacker who died at 
“Dave Duerson had classic ted to a hospital for them, Stern 66 of amyotrophic lateral scle­pathology of CTE and no evi-said. But he said it’s also impor-rosis, or Lou Creekmur, a dence of any other disease,” tant to address hits to the head Detroit Lions lineman who died McKee said, “and he has severe that don’t cause concussions. at 82 of dementia, she said. The involvement of all the (brain) CSTE, created in 2008, is a damage was about the same as when we know that their brains states have passed similar legis­structures that affect things like collaboration between the BU that in the brain of former are far more susceptible to this lation since then, the league judgment, inhibition, impulse School of Medicine and the Houston and Miami linebacker damage,” he said. “My next said. control, mood and memory.” Sports Legacy Institute, headed John Grimsley, who died at 45 focus is how do we change The Washington law requires 
The body of Duerson, who by Nowinski. The center has of an accidental gunshot wound. youth football so that a kid school districts and leagues was 50, was found in Sunny been aggressively researching Nowinski said “the latest ver-doesn’t show up in the NFL with using school property to remove Isles Beach, Fla., on Feb. 17. He head trauma in sports, and has sion of the NFL’s guidelines (on 10,000 hits to their head from games or practice players left a note asking that his brain received a $1 million gift from concussions) are well thought already?” that are suspected of having be given to the NFL’s Brain the NFL, which it has pushed out. And, I think, with the state The NFL said it will “advocate sustained a concussion. It also Bank. He shot himself in the for better treatment of concus-of the science today, it’s about for the passage of Lystedt laws prohibits them from returning chest, “presumably” to preserve sions. the best we can do.” in all states” to protect athletes until authorized by a doctor his brain for study, said Chris “We hope these findings will But he said the problem starts from concussions. trained in concussions, and Nowinski, co-director of the contribute more to the under-much earlier, in youth football. The Lystedt law was adopted mandates that parents and ath-CSTE. standing of CTE,” the NFL said “The 6-year-olds are playing by the state of Washington, letes sign concussion informa-
The other co-directors are in a statement. “Our Head, Neck the same games as the pros effective in July 2009, and 15 tion sheets. 


MLB 

Cards send Freese to DL after wrist surgery 
corner positions, was activated 
Associated Press 
before the start of a four-game 

ST. LOUIS — Cardinals third series against the Florida baseman David Freese will Marlins. General manager John have surgery on his broken left Mozeliak said Craig would like-hand and is expected to miss ly have been activated in any nine to 12 weeks, his latest case, but he’s down the list of extended setback. potential third base fill-ins 
Freese was hit in the hand by because he hasn’t gotten that a pitch from Atlanta reliever much work at third. Scott Linebrink in the sixth Daniel Descalso started at inning Sunday. Freese was bat-third Monday night and La ting .356 with two homers and Russa can also use Nick Punto 14 RBIs in 25 games. and Tyler Greene, although 
Freese was put on the 15-day Punto was hobbled by tightness disabled list Monday and in his left hamstring after get­infielder-outfielder Allen Craig ting removed in the fourth was activated from the DL. inning Sunday. Albert Pujols 
“We’ll make do,” St. Louis played third base for the first manager Tony La Russa said. time since 2002 after Freese’s “It’s just a tough break for injury on Sunday but is unlikely David. We’re going to miss him. to see any more action there. Brutal.” “Probably not something we 
Freese’s surgery Tuesday will would like to do,” Mozeliak likely require a metal plate to said. “But clearly it’s always an speed the healing. The option.” Cardinals hope Freese will be Freese was limited to 70 back in the lineup before games last season by injuries to August. both ankles, and didn’t play 
“Things happen. That’s all I after June 28. He underwent can say,” Freese said. surgery on the right ankle on “Obviously it’s happened contin-Aug. 5 after being injured run­uously for a couple years now, ning the bases during a rehab but I’m not going to look in the assignment, and had arthro­past. I’m going to keep going, scopic surgery to remove a keep plugging away.” bone spur from his left ankle on 
Craig, who can play all four Sept. 8. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 3, 2011 
NFL 

Ownerslooktostretchlockout 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — With its players again barred from work, the NFL told a federal appeals court Monday the fight over whether the lockout is legal won’t get in the way of the 2011 season. 
The rest of the labor fight? That’s anyone’s guess. 
The league filed an 18-page brief with the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis, arguing that the lockout should remain in effect permanently while appeals play out. 
The appeals court put U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson’s order lifting the 45-day lockout on hold temporarily last week. The owners reinstated the lockout a few hours later, and they want a more permanent stay of Nelson’s order so they can argue that it should be over­turned altogether. 
A decision from the appeals court is expected soon. 
The players have argued there is no guarantee appeals can be wrapped up in time for the regu­lar season, but the NFL said the process — thanks to a request for an expedited hearing — is more a matter of weeks than months. 
Still, the St. Louis Rams announced via Twitter they’re pushing back the deadline for renewing season tickets to June 1 to give fans “flexibility given the current labor uncertainty.” Other teams have previously adjusted prices and renewal plans to account for the lockout. 
A Detroit Lions season-ticket holder from suburban Detroit, Bill LaFleur, said he’s already renewed for a fourth year despite the uncertainty. 
“It was due in a couple weeks and the Lions told me if I didn’t pay it by the deadline, I could possibly lose my seat,” LaFleur said. 
The players have a federal antitrust lawsuit against the NFL pending before Nelson. But the legality of the lockout has essen­tially become the fight for now, with both sides arguing over whether Nelson has jurisdiction in the case and the notion of irreparable harm — a claim that has been prominent in nearly every court filing since the col­lective bargaining agreement fell apart March 11 and the NFL stumbled into its first work stop­page since the 1987 strike. 
Nelson agreed with the players that they were suffering such harm when she lifted the 45-day lockout on April 25. 
The league has argued, and did again Monday, that Nelson’s order must be stayed or it “would irreparably harm the NFL by undercutting its labor law rights and irreversibly scrambling the eggs of player-club transactions.” 
“Absent a stay, there will be trades, player signings, players cut under existing contracts, and a host of other changes in employment relationships” between hundreds of players and the 32 NFL teams, the league’s attorneys wrote. 
Players have argued that they are at the highest risk for harm through the postponement or cancellation of free agency, off­season workouts and the like. 
The NFL disagreed, saying players would not lose their opportunity to play for the team of their choice once the league year begins, even if that’s in late June or early July instead of early May. 
The NFL also complained that Nelson ignored evidence that many players, including two of the 10 plaintiffs, Vincent Jackson and Logan Mankins, skip team-organized workouts in the offseason. Jackson and Mankins both held out into the start of the 2010 season, the league noted, “indicating that missing time in the offseason is not irreparable harm.” 
Attorneys have routinely used comments from the other side in their arguments and it hap­pened again Monday when the NFL cited Pro Bowl players Ray Lewis and Wes Walker in sug­gesting some players were all too happy to have the extra time off. 
Welker said recently at a youth football camp, “Let’s do a lockout every year,” according to the NFL’s filing, a statement he preceded with an in-all-serious­ness assessment of the unsched­uled respite forced by the lock­out. 
Said Lewis after an autograph signing, according to the league: “To me, this is probably the greatest window of opportunity I’ve ever had in my life. It’s been 25 years of my life that I’ve never had a summer to myself.” 
In a letter filed Monday about four hours after the NFL’s response, a lawyer for the play­ers wrote to “correct a misstate­ment” by the league and said Nelson had already determined the lockout is damaging the players. 
MLB 

Jones, Snyder fuel Pirates win 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Manager Clint Hurdle had simple instructions for his Pittsburgh Pirates heading into the opener of a three-game series against the San Diego Padres at spacious Petco Park. 
“Look for the grass,” Hurdle said. 
The Pirates did better than that. Garrett Jones and Chris Snyder each hit a two-run homer in the first inning to back James McDonald, and the Pirates beat the San Diego Padres 4-3 on Monday night. 
“We hit two out and we didn’t see a whole lot of grass,” Hurdle said, referring to the Pirates win­ning with just six hits. “I think we shot more balls into the dugout than we did out in the field for hits. We played a complete game. We had two hits after the first inning and our pitching held up.” 
The Pirates snapped a nine-game losing streak to San Diego dating to 2009. They’ve won four of six overall, including consecu­tive games for the first time since April 17-18. 
The Padres, coming off two straight wins at Dodger Stadium, still haven’t won three straight this season. San Diego had the potential tying run on third base with two outs in the ninth before Will Venable hit into a force play. 
The Padres wore their camou­flage jerseys to honor the military a day after President Barack Obama announced that terrorist leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. forces in Pakistan. The Padres normally wear the jerseys for Sunday home games. They gave two free tickets to any active or retired military person­nel who showed proper ID. 

McDonald (2-2) allowed two runs and five hits in six innings, struck out five and walked one. Joel Hanrahan pitched the ninth for his ninth save in nine chances. 
The Pirates hit Aaron Harang (4-2) hard in the first inning to take a 4-0 lead, and the pitcher hurt himself with an error. 
Xavier Paul singled with one out and Jones followed with a shot into the seats down the right-field line, his sixth. Neil Walker singled and advanced to third on Harang’s errant pickoff throw to first with two outs. Snyder fol­lowed with a shot into the left-field seats, his first. 
Floyd 
continued from page 16 

Floyd’s arrest before making any decisions, Stanley said, but the attorney expects an eventual guilty plea. 
In accordance with court­house procedures, the court documents for Floyd’s case currently list a “not guilty” plea because Floyd has not yet entered an official plea on his charge. 
Floyd was arrested March 20 on campus after he was pulled over by the Notre Dame Security Police at the intersection of Angela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue for running a stop sign. Floyd failed three field sobriety tests and was then administered a breathalyzer test, which recorded .19 grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath. Indiana’s legal driving limit is 0.08. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly suspended Floyd indefinitely from all football activities beginning March 21. After attending a meeting with the Office of Residence Life in April, Floyd remained sus­pended from football but was allowed to continue his education as he prepares to graduate next spring. 
The 2010 Football Most Valuable Player became Notre Dame’s all-time leader in touchdown receptions (28) and second all-time in catch­es (171) last season. He was elected captain before spring practice began, but Kelly stripped Floyd of the title after the March 20 incident. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
NBA 

Rose named youngest MVP in league history 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO — Chiacgo Bulls star Derrick Rose is the NBA’s MVP, becoming the youngest player in league history to win the award, a person familiar with the situation told The Associated Press. 
The person spoke Monday night on the condition of anonymity because a formal announcement has not been made. That could come Tuesday, with a formal presen­tation before Game 2 of the Eastern Conference semifinals. 
The news is hardly a surprise. 
Rose is the second Bulls play­er to win the MVP but has a ways to go before he catches Michael Jordan, who won five 
— but he sure is off to a good start. In his third year, the dynamic point guard led the Bulls to their best season since the Jordan-Scottie Pippen championship era. 
“If I get it? It’ll be nice, unbe­lievable, a goal that in the beginning in the year I said I wanted to achieve,” Rose said recently when asked what the award would mean to him. “It would be huge, not only for me, but for the city.” 
He ended the two-year MVP reign of LeBron James, who spurned the Bulls and bolted from Cleveland to form a super­star triumvirate with Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh in Miami. The 22-year-old Rose also sup­planted Wes Unseld as the youngest MVP. He was 23 was the rookie of the year and MVP with Baltimore Bullets for the 1968-69 season. 
A product of Chicago’s South Side, Rose continued his impressive rise this season. 
He established himself as one of the top players in the league after going from Rookie of the Year to an All-Star in his first two seasons with one of the best all-around performances by a point guard. 
He averaged 25 points and 
7.7 assists while leading Chicago into championship con­tention. 
For all the groaning over the Bulls missing out on James, Wade and Bosh in free agency, they did quite well for them­selves anyway. 
Looking for more after back-to-back 41-win seasons and first-round playoff exits, they fired coach Vinny Del Negro and replaced him with Tom Thibodeau. Then, they landed Carlos Boozer and supporting players like Kyle Korver, giving the Bulls the inside scoring presence they were lacking and one of the deepest rotations. 


Tuesday, May 3, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WOMEN’S WATER POLO 

Irish to host championships 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
As the No. 5 Irish prepare to host the Women’s National Collegiate Club Championship, the Midwest division champions are hope­ful they can play their way into the title game. 
Notre Dame (16-4) has experienced sustained suc­cess throughout the season, recording eight straight victo­ries at one point and never suffering consecutive losses. 
Teamwork has helped the Irish consistently perform well, senior goalie Eileen Flanagan said. 
“We’re definitely a team-oriented team,” Flanagan said. “Some teams have one strong player who they center their entire strategy around and that’s how they try and win games, where one player tries to be the all-star. Six people who are working together will always beat a team where one person is try­ing to beat all of us.” 
Notre Dame’s teamwork is especially important on defense, where the Irish have allowed an average of 6.2 goals per game. 
“Our defense is what makes us successful,” senior 2-meter Ali Durkin said. “We play a really efficient team defense, and when our defense is on, we are pretty much unstop­pable.” 
The Irish hope their team play, coupled with the momentum gained from their 15-3 victory over Miami of Ohio in the April 17 regional championship game, will pro­pel them deep into the nation­al tournament. 

If they are to make a title run, the Irish will have to maintain their focus through­out the weekend, as the tour­nament’s 16-team field con­sists of division winners from all over the country. The seeding is based on the 2010 championship results by divi­sion. 
“One of the biggest things for us is going to be making sure that, mentally, we’re prepared, we’re excited, that we’re ready to go as soon as the game starts,” senior driv­er Liz Casazza said. “We’ve been working hard all season and I think that that’s really going to show.” 
The Irish will face No. 12 Texas for the first time in program history in their first round match up. 
“We’ve never played Texas before, so we have no idea how good they are or what to expect,” Flanagan said. “All we know is that we’re focused on beating them right now. We treat every team that we play like they are the best team in the entire country.” 
No. 1 Cal Poly headlines the field after capturing the last three national titles, but the Irish are confident they are prepared for the level of com­petition they will face in the tournament. 
“Every year we take a Spring Break trip out to California, and that’s because the best teams are from California, so we’ve seen this level of competition before,” Flanagan said. “That being said, we haven’t seen them since March, and all sides have gotten better, so this should be a really good test of our abilities and how much we’ve improved over the sea­son.” 
Still, Notre Dame will have to get past Texas before shift­ing its focus to the other teams in the field. 
“We’re kind of just trying to take it one game at a time, so right now we’re thinking about our first game on Friday against Texas,” Durkin said. “We’re trying to not really think beyond that, because if we can’t get past Texas, then we won’t get very far at all.” 
For Flanagan, Durkin, Casazza and fellow senior Lizzy Gormley, the privilege of hosting the national tourna­ment is a special finale to their water polo careers. The Irish hope their position as the home team will provide them with a significant advantage. 
“There is definitely the comfort of playing in your home pool with all the sup­porters, friends and family there cheering you on,” Flanagan said. “At the same time, there’s pressure to do well — you have to defend your home territory. We’re definitely excited about this National.” 
Games begin Friday at 9 
a.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center, with the title game scheduled for 12:45 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Assists 
continued from page 16 
a feeder and playing behind the net,” Tamasitis said. “I never played from behind in high school so it took some time to get comfortable with my role.” 
Tamasitis also carries with her a 35-game point streak, dating back to the beginning of the 2010 season. She does not, however, let the streak impact her play. 
“I guess it’s not really that big of a deal to me,” Tamasitis said. “When I’m playing, it’s never a goal of mine to keep it going.” 
The streak stands as the fourth longest in Notre Dame history, 16 games away from Caitlin McKinney’s 51-game stretch that ended in 2008. Tamasitis has already passed Irish great Jillian Byers’ streak and is closing in on recently graduated Gina Scioscia’s streak. 
“I played with Jill [Byers] and Gina [Scioscia]. When I was a freshman, Jill was my mentor 
— she kept me sane,” Tamasitis said. “To see my name with hers is very bizarre, and I will never put my name in her cate­gory.” 
Tamasitis credits her team­mates, who have converted on many scoring opportunities, for her lofty stats. 
“I owe everything to my team­mates. All of the credit goes to them,” Tamasitis said. “There’s not a single thing I could do without them.” 
On the team, Tamasitis says her fellow juniors are her best friends — and the goofiest. 
“We’re known as the loudest people on the team, by far. Just hanging out with them is a good time,” Tamasitis said. “We love doing silly things. We can have fun doing anything.” 
The Film, Television and Theater major also lists Disney movies among her favorites. With the Big East tournament this weekend, the question remains whether or not Notre Dame will have a storybook ending. 
“I don’t see [our three-game win streak] stopping. I don’t see us going back to losing at all,” Tamasitis said. “If we win six in a row, we’re national champi­ons. That’s my mindset.” 
The Irish open the tourna­ment Thursday against Georgetown in Washington D.C. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


O’Leary 
continued from page 16 
no clique like other teams where you have to earn your respect.” 
O’Leary came to Notre Dame with the goal of turn­ing around the program, and according to O’Connor, he has certainly lived up to expectations. 
“Our coach is one of the best in the U.S., if not the best. He’s the reason we’re in the top -31 teams, ” O’Connor said. 
In honor of the 50th Anniversary of the Notre Dame rugby program, alum­ni traveled to South Bend this weekend to watch their alma mater dismantle the Volunteers. Current Irish players had the opportunity to chat with the former ath­letes at a banquet. 
“Apparently they [alumni] won the championship in 1965, and they were the first rugby team ever put on the cover of ‘Sports Illustrated’,” Mitchell said. “This weekend we got a chance to actually meet the people who are donating that money — the people who are supporting the team and driving the team.” 
Sevens consists of 16 of the country’s most renowned schools, all of which will compete to win the cup. Each team opens competi­tion on the first day against opposition within its pool. The top-two finishers within each pool advance to a bracket-style tournament on the second day. For the 2011 Sevens, the Irish are in a pool alongside Boston 
C o l l e g e ,  D a r t m o u t h  a n d  
Utah.  
Run b y NBC, S eve n s  wa s  

created a year ago when Utah upset rugby -power ­house California to win the cup. 
With only seven guys on the field as opposed to fif­teen, and fourteen-minute games instead of eighty ­minute games, a tournament contest is played with a dif­ferent strategy than a regu­lar rugby match. Notre Dame will work with two ­year Sevens coach Kruger Van Biljon, who will select 12 players to travel to Philadelphia for the invita­tional. 
The Irish travel to Philadelphia, Penn., from June 4 to 5 to compete in the 2011 USA Sevens Collegiate Rugby Championship at PPL Park. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 3, 2011 
Rivalry 
continued from page 16 
Irish in a similar home-and­home series last season. This season, however, the Wolverines have fallen well short of program standards, struggling to a .246 team average at the plate. Irish coach Mik Aoki said Michigan’s struggles at the plate have mirrored those of his own team. 
“I think they are somewhat very similar to the type of squad that we are, ” Aoki said “They have pitched fair­ly well and struggled with the bat like we have. It’s just not your typical Michigan type of year. We lost a close 
one to them last year and they beat us up pretty good here in our yard.” 
The Irish offense will face a Michigan pitching staff that has been inconsistent, garnering a 5.16 staff ERA on the season compared to the 2.92 ERA for the experi­enced Irish staff. Wolverine sophomore starting pitcher Bobby Brosnahan has partic­ularly struggled, posting a 1­8 record with a 7.71 ERA in 11 starts. 
The offensive attack for Notre Dame came to life late in its series with Seton Hall this past weekend. After scoring three runs in the first 27 innings of the match -up with the Pirates (20 -21, 7-11), the Irish erupted for five runs in the final three innings of the series on two home -runs, stealing the rubber game of the series in the process. Aoki said the offense will try to turn the corner perma­nently in the mid -week series with Michigan, though he said the pitching and defense will continue to be crucial. 
“I think it ’s the same recipe all the time [in preparing for opponents]. We need to make sure we pitch and defend well and get some timely hitting, ” Aoki said. “[Last game] we were able to change our mentality as the game went on, which is something we have not been able to do all year long, so it was definite­ly encouraging.” 
The series begins tonight at 6:35 p.m. in Ann Arbor, Mich., and concludes Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium with a scheduled 
5:35 p.m. first pitch. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Men and women throwers establish unique chemistry 
winter and spring. the closer teams on cam -in practice and the weight over the past couple of 
By JACK HEFFERON 

“We go down to the rings pus, ” Hills said . “In the room. She also really tries years.” 
Sports Writer 

and throw almost every past, [Irish coach Joe] to help the underclassmen Heading into this year ’s day,” junior thrower Andy Piane has called us [a] cult. improve, especially the edition of the outdoor Big When one pictures the Hills said. “We’ve got a dif-We have our own inside freshmen.” East championships, which recent successes of Notre ferent practice routine jokes, and we always eat The throwers have also will take place this week ­Dame on the track, images depending on where we are together on trips.” been a huge piece in the end in Villanova, Penn., the 
of sub -four minute miles, that week, and in addition That unity has also recent successes of the Irish throwers once again record-breaking jumps and to that, helped the men’s team, winning two of seem primed to make a dif-Big East championship tro-we ’re in the throwers in the past three Big East ference. After a series of phies all come to mind . weight room “We’ve got a different competition, men’s regular season titles. strong performances, the There is another part of three days a practice routine and they have In their outdoor conference group is peaking at the the squad that often goes week.” made a signif-victory last year, the right time, and they may 
depending on where we 

unnoticed, however. With all icant impact throwers put Notre Dame, need another elite perform-
They do the dirty work that time are that week, and in on the overall which sat in fourth heading ance. and heavy lifting, literally, spent togeth-addition to that, we’re track and into the final day, over the After losing to behind the scenes. Whether er, the men field team top. Connecticut by less than 
in the weight room 

they are hurling a hammer, and women this year. Senior Denes Veres won five points at the indoor discus or shot, the Irish of the throw-three days a week.” On the the shot put with a throw championships, the outdoor throwers are a dynamic ing team women’s side, of 18.57 meters, and Irish Big East title may come force in competition and a form a Rudy Atang, a throwers took five of the down to a single throw. 
Andy Hills 

tight-knit group outside of unique bond s t a n d o u t top eight spots in the ham-“Everyone is practicing 
junior thrower 

it. as a small, hurler, has mer throw to help lead the pretty well, ” Hills said. 
While most of the team d e d i c a t e d been a leader charge. “It’s been an up-and-down hits the track every day, group of ath-for the squad “We had a huge impact on season for us, but we seem the throwers are often on letes . Between practice, in more ways than one. the men’s team at the Big to be riding a high right their own, doing their own meets and travel, the mem-“Rudy has had a really East meet last year, and we now, and that ’s what you specialized practices . bers have gotten to know great year,” Hills said. “She had a large number of guys want heading into these big Under the guidance of each other very well and set school records in the step up for us there,” Hills championship meets.” assistant coach Adam have build a unique chem-indoor and outdoor seasons said . “We like to think Beltran, the athletes prac-istry between them. in the shot put, but she still we ’ve been a pretty big Contact Jack Hefferon at tice every day in the fall, “We ’re probably one of works as hard as anybody part of our team’s success wheffero@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 16 
ing Maldonado and senior cap­tain Heather Johnson. 
“Everything has really been clicking for us lately, from hitting to defense,” freshman pitcher Laura Winters said. “All around we have come together to make great plays on defense and string hits together to push in runs.” 
With this week’s games draw­ing the regular season to a close, the Irish are looking to finish strong and go into the Big East tournament with the momentum they’ve gained. 
“We are in a great position now to make some impressions on teams not only in the Big East, but all across the board,” Winters said. 
“We are the most ready [for the postseason] we’ve been since I’ve been here at school,” Maldonado said. “We’re ready to make history and take this pro­gram to the next level.” 
The Irish will play Valparaiso at home in Melissa Cook Stadium today at 5 p.m. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 



Tuesday, May 3, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
WILL SHORTZ EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD  OROSCOPE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY HENRI ARNOLD
PLEASANDVILLE JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, May 3, 2011 page 16 
BASEBALL 

Rivalry renewed 
Notre Dame to begin series with Wolverines 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
In the midst of a stretch of 
crucial Big East weekend 
matchups, Notre Dame will 
travel out of conference 
tonight to take on long-time 
rival Michigan in a home­
and-home series. The teams 
will play in Ann Arbor, 
Mich., today before traveling 
to South Bend for 
Wednesday’s game. 
The series between the 
Irish (16 -21 -1, 7-10 Big 
East) and Wolverines (13-28, 
6-9 Big Ten) dates back 
nearly 100 years and spans 
125 games. Since the first 
meeting between the teams 
in 1892, Michigan has con­
trolled the series, posting an 
81 -44 record. The 
Wolverines have won six of 
the last seven meetings, 
including a sweep of the 
ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

Irish sophomore designated hitter Adam Norton takes a cut during Notre Dame’s 2-1 loss see RIVALRY/page 14 to Seton Hall April 29. The Irish take on rival Michigan in a home-and-home series this week. 

FOOTBALL 
Floyd to plead case in June 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Junior wide receiver Michael Floyd will appear in court at 8 a.m. June 7 to face charges of operating a vehicle while intoxicated after his court date was rescheduled from Monday. 
Defense attorney William Stanley appeared on Floyd’s behalf Monday as the state officially brought its charges against him and presented the court documents for the case. Floyd faces a misdemeanor charge for operating a vehicle while intoxicated and was not required to appear at the hearing. He could receive a maximum sentence of one year in the St. Joseph County Jail and a $5,000 fine. 
The defense must still review the police narrative of 
see FLOYD/page 12 
MEN’S RUGBY 

Sevens tournament presents opportunity for revenge 
one of four conferences in over the offseason, including Dame rugby program. The are, ” senior center Sean By MEGAN GOLDEN the Collegiate Premier 6 a.m. workouts in the snow. Irish switched from Division Mitchell said. “Just because Sports Writer League, which consists of “The first game we won — II to Division I after their we’re seniors doesn’t mean 
the country’s top-31 teams. against LSU — showed our freshman season and were we’re going to get playing 
For the second consecutive The Irish finished third in strength of fitness,” senior met with immediate success time.” year, an emerging Irish their conference, just short scrumhalf and team captain behind Irish coach Sean The senior leadership on squad will travel to the USA of entering the playoffs as Andy O’Connor said. “They O’Leary. the field has translated into Sevens Collegiate Rugby one of the top-two teams. just died, tired out and they The seniors have made it outstanding team chemistry Championship. The team Coming off a dominating were up 11 -0 at halftime. clear everyone on the team amongst all they players. will battle to send the sen-34 -5 victory against We came back and won, and has an equal chance to com-“We’re pretty much friends iors off with the cup, seek-Tennessee, the Irish are it showed that we could still pete for playing time. with everyone, ” O’Connor ing revenge against a team confident in their talent push it.” “On this team, it ’s more said. “I’m friends with fresh-that ended its run a year across the board. The team The experienced Irish fea-merit-based. If you’re good men. Everyone hangs out ago. credits their success this ture 19 seniors, each of enough to play on the first with everyone, and there’s 
The Irish (3-3) compete in season to the strenuous whom has witnessed drastic team, then you will be play-the Mid-South Conference, practices they have endured changes within the Notre ing no matter how old you see O’LEARY/page 13 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Tamasitis builds point streak 
By MATTHEW DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Leonardo DiCaprio has starred in over 30 movies — but that still is not enough for junior attack Maggie Tamasitis. 
“I love Leonardo DiCaprio,” Tamasitis said. “I have a huge celebrity crush on him. If he’s in [a movie], I usually like it.” 
Much like DiCaprio in “The Aviator,” Tamasitis acts as the team’s pilot, directing the Notre Dame offense. The junior from Boyertown, Penn., has tallied a team-high 39 assists and scored 21 goals. She has guided the Irish (9-8, 6-2 Big East) to a fourth place finish in the Big East and she ranks fourth in the country in assists. 
“I’ve gotten comfortable being 
see ASSISTS/page 13 

SOFTBALL 

Squad set to face non-conference foe 
By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 

The No. 22 Irish, who have won 21 of their last 22 games, look to extend their seven game winning streak and kick off a six-game week right with a victory against Valparaiso today. 
Notre Dame (38-8, 14-1 Big East), currently sitting in sec­ond place in the Big East, is coming off a three-game sweep of conference opponent St. John’s this weekend, winning each game by at least seven runs. Valparaiso (30-18, 10-6 Horizon) recently took a series 2-1 against Green Bay and is tied for first in the Horizon League. 
“Teams that come to play us always bring their top game,” junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said. “As long as we stick to how we’ve been playing and put them away early, we will beat them with ease.” 
The Irish are confident in their abilities, and for good reason. Their impressive per­formance this past weekend earned senior outfielder Brianna Jorgensborg Big East Player of the Week honors. Jorgensborg hit .600, scored eight times, drove in nine RBIs and recorded two stolen bases. She is the third player this year to be awarded the honor, join-
see BIG EAST/page 14 





