the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Garcia listed in serious condition after accident 
Student fell from third story window overnight, did not suffer life-threatening injuries 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
A Notre Dame senior who fell from the third-floor win­dow of his apartment at Eddy Street Commons early Thursday morning is listed in serious condition at Memorial Hospital, according to a hospital spokeswoman. 
The student, 21-year-old Marcus Garcia, was listed in critical condition throughout Thursday before his condi­tion was updated to “serious” Thursday evening, said Maggie Scroope, manager of media relations for the hos­pital. 
Scroope said she could not legally comment on the nature of Garcia’s injuries, but University President Fr. 
John Jenkins said Garcia did not suffer life-threatening injuries. 
"University officials were made aware of the accident involving Marcus early this morning and have been with him and in com­munica ­tion with his par­ents ever since," Jenki ns said Thursday. "We thank God that his injuries are not life threatening and pray for his full recovery." 
Capt. Phil Trent of the South Bend Police said the exact cause of Garcia’s fall is unclear. 

“We know when he fell and we know where he fell, but what we don’t know is why he fell,” Trent said. “As of right now, it stands as an accident. If he gets better like they say he is going to, maybe he can shed some light on [what happened.]” 
Trent said an employee at a local bar saw Garcia's legs hanging out his apartment window above the south end of the Hammes Bookstore’s Eddy Street location as she left work around 4:30 a.m. He fell about 25 feet onto the sidewalk below the window. She then called 911. 
Garcia was in and out of consciousness while medics 
see GARCIA/page 3 



Notre Dame great work 


Studentsurgedtobeproactive 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
As the school year begins, stu­dent government and the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) advised students to protect them­selves while off campus this year by proactively using safety resources and learning about local policies. 
“The advice I give to off-cam­pus students is no different than the advice I give to those who live in the neighborhood year-round,” Sgt. Patrick Hechlinski said. “If you see something suspi­cious, call the police. I’ve noticed apprehension in students for call­ing us, but we can come out and check.” 
Hechlinski urged students to lock their doors, leave porch lights on, use alarm systems and make friends with neighbors for safety. 
“SBPD works closely with Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and landlords to put on 


place for young alumni 
safety talks,” he said. “For the 
last two years we’ve worked closely with student government with the Student Crime Watch. It puts out announcements of crimes against students to keep them informed of situations.” 
Through Student Crime Watch, officers from SBPD and NDSP post alerts about crimes in the local area on the off-campus stu­dent website. Police posted two alerts earlier this month about a 
see SAFETY/page 3 

Class of 2015 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Young alumni beginning their professional careers “under the dome” agree Notre Dame has a great work environment 
— and not just because they’re working at their alma mater. Stephanie Mola, a 2009 Notre Dame graduate as a market­ing major, now works as the young alumni programs man­ager for the Alumni Association. She said her job “really couldn’t have been a better fit.” “Coming to your job every day, you’re coming to be with family,” she said. “You’re having a hard day, [and] you can go to the Grotto. You have a mentor, or five, around campus you can turn to.” Mola is not the only Notre Dame employee that feels this way. The Chronicle of Higher Education honored Notre Dame on its list of “Great Colleges to Work For” for the third consecutive year. The Chronicle compiled its 2011 list of “Great Colleges to Work For” from survey responses submitted by near­ly 44,000 people at 310 insti­tutions. 
Survey respondents respond­ed to 60 statements using a five-point scale, ranging from “strongly agree” to “strongly disagree.” According to the Chronicle website, they also rated their satisfaction with benefits and responded to two open-ended questions. Tammy Freeman, director of Talent and Human Resources Strategy for Notre Dame, said the colleges on the list receive high rankings in leadership, careers, compensation and workplace satisfaction. “One thing that has been con­sistent is recognition of our great facilities and … benefits program for employees,” Freeman said. “Those two [aspects] in my mind stand out as outstanding for the university.” Freeman said University employees are typically in sync with the larger goals and values of Notre Dame. “I do think that employees overall connect to the mis­sion, and that brings in a dif­ferent dynamic from any other work environment,” she said. Freeman said many Notre Dame graduates apply for positions with the University. “[Alumni] is one of the candi­
see GRADUATES/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Saint Mary’s Dining Hall changes page 3  Viewpoint page 10  B1 Black Party page 12  Jonas Gray helps lead the Irish page 24 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, August 26, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jason Taulman 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: William Heineman 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Matthew Anna Boarini DeFranks Christian Myers Andrew Graphics Gastelum Marina Kozak Joseph Monardo 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Meghan Scene Thomassen Troy Mathew 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SONG BEST DESCRIBES YOUR LI E RIGHT NOW? 







Jack Yusko  Catherine Flatley  Drago Dimitrov  Kelly James  Jack Heinrich  
sophomore  junior  freshman  senior  senior  
Dillon  Lyons  Fisher  Duncan  off campus  
“Float On.”  “Imma Bee.”  “Elba by E.S.  “Gucci Gucci.”  “Old Pine by  
Posthumous.”  Ben Howard.”  


THOMAS LA/The Observer Students from the School of Engineering grill and serve burgers on South Quad Thursday. The event gave other students, especially the freshman class, a chance to learn about engineering at Notre Dame. 
OFFBEAT 
Skinny jean ban ends as district gives in to pressure 
CATASAUQUA, Pa. — Students in a Pennsylvania school district have gotten approval to remain fashion forward. 
The Morning Call of Allentown reports that Catasauqua (cat-uh-SOCK’­wuh) Area School District approved a revised dress code this week. It allows students to wear so-called skinny jeans. 
The tight-fitting jeans had been banned under an ear­lier dress code. But parents complained they were hav­ing a hard time finding jeans that wouldn’t be banned under the district’s definition. 
Board member Patricia Snyder tells The Morning Call the district was trying to prevent students from wearing suggestive cloth­ing. But ultimately the dis­trict determined jeans could be skinny but still appropriate. 

The board also gave in to requests to back off a ban on hooded sweat shirts. Low-cut tops, leggings and ripped pants are still barred. 
Squirrel implicated in case of missing flags 
TOLEDO, Ohio — Police in Ohio have discovered that small flags being swiped from a police memorial were being squirreled away. 
Two Toledo officers watched on Wednesday as a squirrel quickly snatched a flag off its wooden dowel and ran off with it. Lt. James Brown told The Blade newspa­per the bushy-tailed crit­ter was too quick to catch. 
Later, police noticed a squirrel hanging out on a tree branch outside a third-floor window at their headquarters build­ing. They also spotted a squirrel’s nest made of leaves and branches — and at least two of the lit­tle flags. 
Brown says at least three of the flags have gone missing in recent days. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Saturday sunday 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Student Players will per­form Oscar Wilde’s play “The Importance of being Earnest” today from 4to 6 
p.m. on West Quad. 
The volleyball team ’s Shamrock Invitational tour­nament will feature Idaho vs. Butler at 4:30 p.m. and Notre Dame vs. Eastern Michigan tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The Fall Festival sponsored by the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore begins at 5 p.m. tonight outside the Bookstore. The festival will benefit the Family and Children’s Center as well as United Way. The festival will feature food, live music and a Tailgate Toss Tournament. 
The documentary titled “Cave of Forgotten Dreams” will be shown in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 6:30 p.m. The cost is $3 for students. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will host the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival’s production of “The Merchant of Venice” tonight at 8 p.m. Tickets are $12 for students and can be pur­chased at http://performin­garts.nd.edu 
IRISHenanigans will begin at 9 p.m. in the Lafortune Student Center and will fea­ture free food and multiple activities and events. 
The Upright Citizens Brigade improv show begins tonight at 9 p.m. in Lafortune Student Center as part of IRISHenanigans. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


monday Tuesday 


Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer  NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Garcia 
continued from page 1 
treated him at the scene for a severe head injury. His room­mates were asleep at the time and did not know what caused him to fall from the window, Trent said. 
Safety 
continued from page 1 
student robbery Aug. 17 and a home invasion Aug. 19. 
Student body president Patrick McCormick said student govern­ment is committed to increasing the safety of students both on and off campus. 
Student government will host a safety summit with local officials at the Irish Green on Aug. 31. McCormick said the summit would be an opportunity for stu­dents to learn about safety and to ask questions of local law enforce­ment. 
Another available resource is the “Good Neighbor Guide,” which provides students with advice for living in off-campus neighborhoods. 
“This goes beyond student safe­ty,” McCormick said. “This is about the safety of the community, and working on the former will improve the latter. The best thing to keep yourself safe is to be aware of your surroundings and trust your gut.” 
Student body vice president Brett Rocheleau said new local laws would also help improve overall safety. 
Garcia is a psychology and sociology major from Turlock, Calif., according to the Notre Dame sociology department website. 
Sarah Mervosh contributed to this report 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
“There was a no-texting-while­driving law passed in Indiana over the summer,” Rocheleau said. “Operation Pull Over is also going on through Sep. 5. Police officers are setting up roadblocks and checking for intoxicated driving.” 
The South Bend Common Council also passed a reform for the city’s taxi laws Monday, Rocheleau said. 
“This is an even safer way for students to get off campus,” McCormick said. “Another option is the 7A Transpo route, spon­sored by student government. We hope students take advantage of the safe transportation student government is providing.” 
Roheleau noted that student arrests in South Bend were a huge problem last fall, but he said police have not yet arrested any students during this school year. 
“We’re working with SBPD to improve the situation from last year,” he said. 
McCormick said his administra­tion is open to any questions or concerns felt by students. 
“We can’t predict the future, but we can assure each and every student they’re safe on campus or off,” he said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Dining hall surveys SMC 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

Saint Mary’s students are the No. 1 voice in the Noble Family Dining Hall, according to dining hall general manager Barry Bowles, and next week they will have another chance to make sure their favorite foods are available this year. 
Bowles said he will circulate a student survey next week that has inspired major changes to the dining hall in past years. 
“When you ask what’s new in the dining hall, [the dining hall staff is] going to wait until stu­dents tell us what they want to see new in the dining hall,” Bowles said. “There were a lot of really good changes last year that we’re keeping for this year, because students seem to be extremely happy with them. But who knows? Maybe they’re going to come up with some­thing even better.” 
The survey, created by Bowles and a member of the Student Government Association (SGA), will ask stu­dents what they would like to see change in the dining hall. 
Last year, the survey yielded around 560 responses, Bowles said. Some of the changes included dinnertime music, taco and hummus bars, new salad dressings and more cere­al choices. 
“I take student concerns and challenges very seriously,” Bowles said. “I’m hoping they’ll come up with something great.” 
Bowles said he takes every answer to heart and tries to act on it. 
“[The survey] kind of takes [dining hall decisions off my shoulders], and I’m just not making this arbitrary decision,” he said. “I hate making those types of decisions. It’s more so, give me your feedback, and give me what you guys want to see.” 
Junior Jenny Gracyalny, who 
took the sur­vey last year, said she is pleased to see the dining hall made an effort to listen to student concerns. 
“I do see some changes [in the dining hall]. For example, last year, a bunch of girls com­mented about 
how they wanted Caesar dress­ing at the salad bar, and low and behold, we now have Caesar dressing, and a taco bar and hummus out all the time,” Gracyalny said. “[The dining hall staff has] always been very good about listening to our comments.” 
The dining hall provides other ways for students to sub­mit feedback. SGA established a comment card process at the front desk of the Student Center. 
Bowles said these comment cards go directly into a locked box at the student center desk. Each month, the Office of Student Involvement reviews the comments, and Bowles receives a report on the feed­back placed in the box. 
“There is no way that I can look at a comment card and just throw it away because I don’t like what it says,” Bowles said. “Somebody else has seen it, and I have to respond to it. 
“I think that the dining hall has imporved on quality since my freshman year. Dinners are exciting to go to instead of a drudgery..” 
Jenny Gracyalny junior 
It’s a very, very good system.” 
Students can also provide anonymous feedback through the Dining Services section of the school’s web­site. 
“Students have a right to look at their dining hall and [voice their concerns], ” 
Bowles said. “That’s how we get better.” 
Thanks to the efforts of the dining hall staff, Gracyalny said the dining hall is turning into a more pleasurable experience. 
“I think that the dining hall has improved on quality since my freshman year,” she said. “Dinners are exciting to go to instead of a drudgery.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 



Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer  NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Graduates 
continued from page 5 
date pools that we tap into because they know what the university is about, they know the area,” she said. “[That] certainly makes it easy to talk to them about a job here on campus.” As one of these employees, Mola began her position with the Alumni Association in May 2010. Her duties now include working with various groups around campus to try and raise undergraduate aware­ness of the Alumni Association, working on national young alumni pro­gramming and helping to put out a quarterly newsletter. “I just wanted to be back here,” she said. “I feel like I’m really making a differ­ence … it’s almost like mak­ing a new mark at Notre Dame.” Right after Mola graduated, she began working for Johnson & Johnson in a sales leadership position. But she said she had an “intense longing” to come back to Notre Dame, and when she saw a position with the Alumni Association open up, she actively pur­sued it. “Working with alumni, that’s the most ideal position,” she said. “You get to interact with amazing people on a daily basis.” Linsey Laufenberg, a 2010 Notre Dame graduate, is an administrative assistant with the Office of Gift Planning here on campus. She said her dream was to come back to Notre Dame and “con­tribute to the mission.” She began her position just two weeks ago. “So far it’s been really inter­esting to see the university from the administrative side and seeing what goes into making the university func­tion, where it gets money from, how it’s distributed,” Laufenberg said. “It’s been really interesting for me to learn how it functions from a different standpoint.” Campus Ministry intern Rebecca Sharbaugh, who graduated in May with a degree in psychology and theology, also began working at Notre Dame about two weeks ago. “I knew I wanted to do some sort of ministry and this opportunity with Campus Ministry came along,” she said. She said Campus Ministry hires four interns every year from the graduating class who help to facilitate or lead the various programs while gaining background in min­istry. She said she would love to eventually have a full time job at Notre Dame. “I think there ’s such an atmosphere of kindness and acceptance and hospitality,” Sharbaugh said. “I just felt very welcomed here.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 

Course lays ground for new minor 
plan the minor last year. He will be present in class at the 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
said Notre Dame’s approach to same time to lead interactive 
News Writer 
teaching sustainability differs discussions. 
from other universities. The decision to implement a 

A new one-credit course “Implementation becomes class with four professors fol-offered by the Office of complicated when you cross lowed the interdisciplinary Sustainability will apply envi-the colleges, but it’s important approach the minor promotes, ronmental issues to subjects to hear the different perspec-Hellmann said. across the University’s range tives,” Serianni said. “ Continuing the innovative of study, professor Maria Pia Sustainability is an intrinsical-approach, the minor’s advisory Miglietta said. ly interdisciplinary topic, so it board will choose four differ­
“Students will be educated should be treated that way.” ent professors to teach the and able to bridge across dis-Serianni said the committee class each semester. That con­ciplines,” Miglietta said. decided to introduce the minor stant flow of professors will “Sustainability involves differ-gradually with the one-credit create a dynamic exchange of ent perspec-autumn course perspectives, she said. tives. It’s not before opening “We’re really excited. We just science, but “Sustainabiliy other courses. want this to create some new architecture, “Rather than conversations on campus,” 
involves different
b u s i n e s s , starting full Hellmann said. “It’ll allow stu­
perspectives. It’s not 
English and swing with a dents looking for an interdisci­more.” just science, but class, we want-plinary education an official 
M i g l i e t t a , ed to begin with credential to show they’ve 
architecture, 
director of the an informal gone above and beyond.” 
business, English and
University’s new mechanism, ” Serianni said the faculty minor in sus-more.” Serianni said. members involved in the pro­tainability, said “The gateway gram are excited for classes to the course class for the begin and hope to energize 
Maria Pia Miglietta
would feature a minor, an intro-students in the same way. 
professor
different speak-ductory course, Resource stewardship is a crit­er each week will be offered ical issue especially when con-that will share by next spring sidering the future, he said. how sustainability affects his and taught by four profes-“What motivates me is seri­or her field of work. The class, sors.” ous environmental concerns, titled “What Sustainability Professor Jessica Hellmann but beyond that there’s the Means to Us,” will feature 14 also served on the committee geopolitical implication of different Notre Dame person-that built the minor last year. dependency on oil, even on alities. She said the gateway class, U.S. security,” Serianni said. 
The interdisciplinary titled “Principles of “Students should be familiar approach to the course is Sustainability,” would be with sustainability, since they essential to teaching sustain-taught by Serianni, English will be called upon to answer ability, Miglietta said. professor John Sitter, sociology some of these problems.” 
Professor Anthony Serianni professor Andy Weigert and served on a committee of fac-engineering professor Joe Contact Nicole Toczauer at ulty members that began to Fernando. The four professors ntoczaue@nd.edu 
SMC seniors conduct summer biology research on island 
nation in the homes and wells 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
on the island. 
News Writer 
“I had to speak Spanish to the residents when I was in Saint Mary’s seniors Alicia their homes collecting water Carroll, Audrey Dalrymple, samples, which was a bit of a Susan Herman and Krystal challenge but they were real-Holtcamp spent their summer ly willing to help and laugh swimming in the Caribbean along with me when I messed Sea – for academic credit. translations up,” Holtcamp 
The four biology majors said. worked 20 hours a week and As part of the program, conducted research as part of they also worked in a local 
a nine -week program on Little Corn Island, located “The locals made us 
just off the 
feel like family upon
coast of 
arrival and our
Nicaragua. “This taught relationships us how to live 
continued to grow
minimally and not take things throughout the for granted. We summer.” all can’t speak highly enough 
Alicia Carroll 
of the pro ­
senior
”
gram, Dalrymple said. “It really opens your eyes up to other fields of biology. We learned things you’ll never be able to learn in a classroom. The hardest part of the sum­mer was coming home, leav­ing the island.” 
Herman said she and Dalrymple earned their SCUBA certifications this summer in order to investi­gate the oceanic wildlife around the island. 
“I had never been diving before this trip,” Herman said. “Now I consider it a passion of mine.” 
While their friends dove in the Caribbean waters, Carroll and Holtcamp spent their days on land studying the effects of bacterial contami­dive shop and hotel. Carroll said the people on the island made them feel like a part of the Little Corn community. 
“The locals made us feel like family upon arrival, and our relationships continued to grow through­out the sum­mer,” Carroll said. “In addi­tion to the 
locals, we also made friend­ships with a lot of the travel­ers coming and going. Hearing all of the travelers’ stories was fascinating and inspiring. It’s amazing how strong of a bond you can cre­ate with people over such a short period.” 
Holtcamp felt the same familial atmosphere Carroll did. 
“I never was homesick,” Holtcamp said. “I had a fami­ly on the island.” 
The girls did need to adapt to an entirely different way of life, Holcamp said. They lived without air conditioning or hot water on the island, and tarantulas, termites and cockroaches were regular fix­tures in their bedrooms and labs. 


“Problems arise when using research materials in a third world country, ” Holtcamp said. “They can go bad and sometimes, you don’t get your problems solved right away, or at all. You have to learn how to adjust.” 
Upon completion of the research projects, the four seniors fulfilled their Senior Comprehensive requirements to conduct outside research. The entire cost of the pro­gram is funded through a pri­vate donor. Interested Biology majors can inquire about the Little Corn Island program through the department. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer  NEWS Friday August 26, 2011 
Studyreviewsincome,gender 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
Nice guys . and mean girls 
. can actually come last in the business world, accord­ing to research from man­agement professor Timothy Judge published earlier this month. 
Judge’s paper, which stud­ies the effects of personality and gen­der on income, addressed the career advan­tages and disadvan­tages of an argu­mentative workplace attitude. 
“How we expect a woman to behave may seem primi­tive … but [stereotypes] still exist for a substantial part of the population,” Judge said. 
Judge investigated the issue when he saw assertive and successful women like Martha Stewart receive excessive criticism while the media championed male fig­ures like Donald Trump as “tough negotiators.” 
“It made me wonder if being a tough business woman cast [Stewart] in a different light,” he said. 
He also cited Hilary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign as an example of negative attention directed at women with strong per­sonalities. 

After collecting his research, Judge found a con­nection between aggressive workplace behavior and higher pay. 
“Disagreeable people get more resources because they 
ask for more,” he said. 
This trend results from the fact that more assertive people are more likely to ask for pay raises and job promotions, Judge said. 
However, Judge said he saw a severe gender gap emerge in his research as 
well. While men reaped the benefits of their confronta­tional behavior, he said women rarely received high­er pay as a result of the same actions. 
“If you’re a woman, you have to be careful about how you ask and not cross the line and be called the ‘B­word,’” Judge said. 
Men benefit from being disagreeable because males are generally expected to be more harsh and aggressive, Judge said. 
LIBYA 
Libya rebels relocate leaders to capital city 
Associated Press 
TRIPOLI, Libya — The Libyan rebels’ interim government announced it is moving from the country’s second city to the capital Tripoli, another step toward taking control, as heavy fighting raged around Moammar Gadhafi’s last stronghold early Friday. 
Before daybreak, rebels exchanged heavy fire with fighters loyal to Gadhafi who have holed up in residential buildings in the Tripoli neigh­borhood of Abu Salim, a regime stronghold. Smoke rose from the area of Abu Salim, and heavy machine gun fire and loud booms were heard across Tripoli before dawn. 
Gadhafi is still on the run, but a minister in the rebel govern­ment said his capture is not a prerequisite for setting up a new administration in the capi­tal. 
“We can start rebuilding our country,” Finance Minister Ali Tarhouni of the National Transitional Council told a news conference late Thursday. “He (Gadhafi) is the one who is basically in the sewer, moving from one sewer to another.” 
Even with his regime in tat­ters, Gadhafi has tried to rally his followers to kill the rebels who waged war for six months to bring down Libya’s ruler of 42 years. 
“Don’t leave Tripoli for the rats. Fight them, and kill them,” Gadhafi said in a new audio message broadcast on Al-Ouroba TV, a Syria-based satellite station. 
Since sweeping into Tripoli on Sunday, the rebels have been struggling to take com­plete control. On Tuesday, they took Gadhafi’s sprawling gov­ernment compound, Bab al-Aziziya, and have also been battling for control of the near­by neighborhood of Abu Salim. 
The fight for Abu Salim has been particularly bloody. Bullet-riddled corpses from both sides sprawled on the ground. 
Outside Bab al-Aziziya, there was another grim scene, one that suggested execution-style killings of civilians. 
About two dozen bodies — some with their hands bound by plastic ties and with bullet wounds to the head — lay scat­tered on grassy lots in an area where Gadhafi sympathizers had camped out for months. 
The identities of the dead were unclear, but they were in all likelihood activists who had set up an impromptu tent city in solidarity with Gadhafi in defiance of the NATO bombing campaign. 
The female stereotype, however, is a kind, coopera­tive, gentle and sympathetic character. Judge said chal­lenging this stereotype leads to harsh criticism rather than praise. 
“We can’t think that just because we have progressed, our instincts [about gender roles] have gone away,” 
“How we expect a woman to behave may seem primitive ... but [stereotypes] still exist for a substantial part of the population.” 
Timothy Judge professor 
Judge said. 
As women assume lead­ership roles more regular­ly, Judge said this negative reception of agg ressive women might evolve. H o w e v e r, Judge said businesses would need to develop pro­grams now to encourage 
open and honest dialogue to address this double stan­dard. 
While women should be careful of the biases working against them, Judge said they should not be discour­aged. 
“You don’t always get what you ask for, but you rarely get what you don’t ask for,” he said. “Avoiding conflict at all costs has consequences.” 
Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 


Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Buffetinvests$5billion,shoresupBankofAmerica 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Warren Buffett comes to the rescue again. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. announced Thursday that it would invest $5 billion in Bank of America Corp., a much-needed vote of confidence that sent the beleaguered bank’s stock soaring 9 percent. 
The legendary investor said in a prepared statement that he reached out to Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan to say he wanted to invest because he con­sidered the bank a “strong, well-led company.” 
Lately, the market has ren­dered a different verdict. 
As recently as Tuesday, Bank of America’s stock had plunged 50 percent from a year ago on con­cerns over its mortgage problems and worries that it would have to sell large amounts of stock to shore up its balance sheet. 
The sell-off was seen as a major challenge for the bank and Moynihan, who has been at the helm since January 2010. 
While Buffett’s $5 billion invest­ment is like a drop in the bucket at the largest U.S. bank with $2.2 trillion in assets, it comes with an imprimatur of confidence that is worth a lot more. In that sense, Buffett’s investment is largely symbolic. 
“The investment eliminates the big credibility gap that manage­ment had with investors,” said Jonathan Finger, partner of Houston-based Finger Interests Ltd., a long-time shareholder that owns 1.1 million shares. 
“It’s time now to demonstrate they have a plan to grow the business,” he said. 
Bank of America had cash and cash-equivalent securities of $402 billion at the end of second quarter. Its cash level is at the highest level in the bank’s history, bank’s spokesman Jerry Dubrowski said. 
Much of the Charlotte, N.C. bank’s problems, however, stem from its 2008 purchase of the nation’s largest mortgage lender, Countrywide Financial Corp., but it faces a litany of other chal­lenges. 
The bank lost $15.3 billion in the last four quarters. Its revenue fell 34 percent in the first half of 2011 from the same period a year ago, to $40 billion, after new regulations prevented it from col­lecting fees from checking account overdrafts and credit cards. 
Half of all U.S. households have an account or do business with it, making it more exposed than rivals to weakness in the econo­my. 
Investors’ confidence in the bank took another blow this month as its mortgage headaches got worse. 
On Aug. 8, American International Group Inc. sued the bank for more than $10 billion, saying it deceived the insurer by selling it faulty mortgage invest­ments. The bank has already paid a total of $12.7 billion this year to settle similar claims. 
The AIG lawsuit amplified wor­ries that more investors would sue the bank and drain its cof­fers. 
The slide in the stock intensi­fied, falling as much as 36 per­cent just this month. 
Moynihan, the CEO, has been trying to engineer a turnaround by selling assets, cutting expenses and closing branches. In an effort to calm investors, the embattled chief executive took to the air­waves to say that the bank will not need to raise more capital. 
It didn’t help. Investors became even more impatient with the bank. 
Then, Buffett, the folksy billion­aire, turned his eyes toward Bank of America. 
One of the most successful and respected investors of all time, Buffett has lent his credibility to several other icons of American business at times when investors’ confidence in them was waning. 
His moves are followed closely by millions of investors world­wide. 
Though Buffett’s investment is symbolic, it will cost Bank of America $300 million in annual dividend payments. 

Buffett already made a profit, on paper, of $357 million thanks to a surge in Bank of America’s stock price after the deal was announced. After closing at $6.99 Wednesday, the stock jumped 9.4 percent to $7.65 Thursday. 

Experts fear destructive potential of Hurricane Irene 
Associated Press “One of my greatest night-The governors of North churned up by the outer bands ment already surrounded by 
mares was having a major Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, of Irene caused eight people to water. 
BUXTON, N.C. — A mon-hurricane go up the whole Delaware, New York and New be injured when a wave A September 1821 hurricane strous Hurricane Irene tight-Northeast Coast,” Max Jersey declared emergencies knocked them off a jetty. Also, raised tides by 13 feet in an ened its aim on the Eastern Mayfield, the center’s retired to free up resources, and a man swimming off Jupiter hour and flooded all of Seaboard on Thursday, threat-director, told The Associated authorities all the way to New was swept away by a large Manhattan south of Canal ening 65 million people along Press. England urged residents in wave, but later ended up Street — an area that now a shore-hugging path from He said the damage will low-lying areas to gather sup-ashore. includes the nation’s financial North Carolina to New probably climb into billions of plies and learn the way to a Scientists predict Irene will capital. An infamous 1938 England. One of the nation’s dollars: “This is going to have safe location. then chug up the coast. Some storm dubbed the Long Island top experts called it his “night-an impact on the United States Irene was expected to come forecasts showed it taking Express came ashore about 75 mare” scenario. economy.” ashore Saturday in North dead aim at New York City, miles east of the city and then 
The Category 3 storm with The head of the Federal Carolina with 115 mph winds with its eye passing over hit New England, killing 700 winds of 115 mph — the Emergency Management and a storm surge of 5 to 10 Brooklyn and Manhattan people and leaving 63,000 threshold for a major hurri-Agency said damages could feet. It could dump a foot of before weakening and trudg-homeless. cane — would be the strongest exceed most previous storms rain, with as much as 15 inch-ing through New England. On Thursday, Ocean City, to strike the East Coast in because so many people live es falling in some places along Hurricanes are rare in the Md., officials ordered thou-seven years, and people were along the East Coast and prop-the coast and around Northeast because the region’s sands of residents and tourists already getting out of the way. erty values are high. Chesapeake Bay. cooler seas tend to weaken to abandon the beach commu-
All eyes were on Irene’s pro-“We’ve got a lot more people With heavy rain and storm storms as they approach, and nity. Earlier in North Carolina, jected path, which showed it that are potentially in the path surge predicted for the they have to take a narrow three coastal counties issued bringing misery to every city of this storm,” FEMA Director nation’s capital, organizers track to strike New York with-evacuation orders covering along the I-95 corridor, includ-Craig Fugate said in an inter-postponed Sunday’s dedication out first hitting other parts of more than 200,000 people, ing Washington, New York and view with The Associated of the Martin Luther King Jr. the coast and weakening including tourists and full-time Boston. The former chief of the Press. “This is one of the Memorial on the National Mall. there. residents. President Barack National Hurricane Center largest populations that will be Already in South Florida Still, strong storms have Obama declared an emergency called it one of his three worst impacted by one storm at one near West Palm Beach, author-been known to unleash serious for the state, allowing for fed-possible situations. time.” ities blame the rough ocean damage in an urban environ-eral help. 


Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer . NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 
Obama campaign not hindered by economy 
dimmed this summer. But so re-election prospects. 
Associated Press 
far, the growing pessimism More people now believe the WASHINGTON — Americans’ doesn't seem to be taking a toll country is headed in the wrong views on the economy have on President Barack Obama's direction, a new Associated 

Press-GfK poll shows, and con­fidence in Obama's handling of the economy has slipped from just a few months ago, notably among fellow Democrats. 
The survey found that 86 per­cent of adults see the economy as “poor,” up from 80 percent in June. About half — 49 per­cent — said it worsened just in the past month. Only 27 per­cent responded that way in the June survey. 
That can’t be good news for a president revving up his re­election campaign. Yet there are several hopeful signs for Obama. 
Despite the perception of a weakening recovery, there has been no significant change in the number of people who say he deserves re-election: 47 per­cent as opposed to 48 percent two months ago. The not-so­good news for Obama: That's a statistical dead heat with those who favor a change in the White House. 
And more Americans still blame former President George 
W. Bush rather than Obama for the economic distress. Some 31 percent put the bulk of the blame on Obama, while 51 per­cent point to his Republican predecessor. 
“I think Bush had a hand in it, too. Obama's not totally responsible,” said Mary Parish, 68, of Troy, Tenn. An independ­ent who voted for Republican John McCain in 2008, she said she doesn't believe Obama has what it takes to heal the econo­my. “He’s a smooth-talking man. But he does not know what he’s doing.” 
Obama also fares better than Congress in the blame depart­ment. Some 44 percent put “a lot” or "most” of the blame on Republicans while 36 percent point to congressional Democrats. 
The gloomy economic outlook reflected in the poll, which was taken Aug. 18-22, follows a round of bleak government eco­nomic reports — on unemploy­ment, the housing market and economic growth that fell below 1 percent for the first six months of the year. It was taken amid heightened worries of a new U.S. recession, fallout from a downgrade of the coun­try’s credit rating and a spread­ing European debt crisis. 
As the public’s outlook on the economy dips, so has approval for the president’s economic stewardship. 
More than 6 in 10 — 63 per­cent — disapprove of Obama's handling of the economy. Nearly half, or 48 percent, “strongly” disapproved. Approval of his economic per­formance now stands at just 36 percent, his worst approval rat­ing on the issue in AP-GfK polling. 
Among Democrats, 58 per­cent approve of the president’s handling of the economy, down from 65 percent in June. Among Republicans, approval dipped to 9 percent from 15 percent. 
Just 51 percent consider Obama a strong leader, down from 60 percent in June and 65 percent following the capture and death of Osama bin Laden in May. In June, 85 percent of Democrats in the poll called him a strong leader. Now, the number is down to 76 percent. 
Of course, there are limits to what a president can do. 
“I think he can nudge it along, but really, it boils down to the private sector,” said Dan Elliott, 42, of Hillsboro, Ill., an independent who voted for Obama in 2008 and says he'll probably vote for him again. 
Judith Lee, 63, a retired teacher from Great Diamond Island, Maine, said she's a Republican who voted for Obama in 2008 but has been disappointed by his leadership style. 
“I don't think he is a very forceful leader,” Lee said. “His style of leadership seems to be to look for consensus and ideas from other people, and it seems to have been ineffective. And Congress seems to be dead­locked on problems.” 
Some 75 percent in the poll said the country is heading in the wrong direction, up from 63 percent in June. Among Democrats, 61 percent chose “wrong direction” — up from 46 percent in June. 
In a new high, 52 percent of all adults said they disapprove of his overall performance — 52 percent, up from 47 percent in June. Among Democrats, approval fell 8 points, to 74 percent from 82 percent in June. Among Republicans, it fell to 11 percent from 22 per­cent. 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, August 26, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Imported from Detroit 
I live in the greatest city in the United States. 
As soon as this sentence is read, I sus­pect metropolitan areas such as New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Atlanta and Miami all sprung up into your head. 
Now, while my city does not have the “bright lights, big stage” mentality found in The Big 

Adam Llorens 
Apple, it does have 
News Writer 
respectable human beings who are willing and able to assist weary travelers who have found their way through our town. 
My baseball team also understands the importance of loyalty and respect, unlike that team in the Bronx that has adopted the “pay as you go” mentality throughout its fabled history. 
Unlike The City of Angels, my city can­not claim to be the entertainment capi­tal of the world. However, my city nei­ther holds the title of “plastic surgery capital of the world” nor “largest amounts of conceitedness per person per square mile.” 
The Windy City? My town does not try to be a miniature version or a second rate replica of Gotham City, or any other city for that matter. 
On top of that, The Second City’s ver­sion of a hot dog pales in comparison to my city’s Lafayette Coney Dogs. 
Unlike Atlanta, whose hometown cliché rappers range from Lil John to T.I., both of whom rhyme about the same nonsense every record, my city is home to Eminem, a transcending artist whose lyrics come from the heart. 
Miami? I am relieved that my town is not symbolized by an atrocious, drug-filled film like “Scarface.” 
And unlike The Magic City, the 313 does not contain a university known more for its boosters who provide cars, boats and exotic dancers for its football team. 
No, my city does not claim to be any of these places, and quite frankly, is proud of it. My city has had its struggles – I don’t deny it. My city has had a mayor who cared more about lavish trips and exquisite cars than the town he was supposed to be running. My city has one of the highest crime and obesity rates in the country. My city is the symbol for the harsh economic times that have defined a decade. 
However, my city has hope. My city has pride. My city has determination. My city has persistence. My city invent­ed an object that transformed the daily habits of people across the world. 
At 2648 West Grand Boulevard, my city’s music crossed racial lines and cre­ated a sound that was spread to every corner of the globe. 
Laugh if you must. Reject at your will. Just take these parting words with you. from. 
We’ve seen your appalled faces when you realize that people actually live in the southeast corner of the Mitten. 
We’ve been put down throughout his­tory, and somehow, someway, we’ve got­ten back up again. 
The Motor City. The D. 313. Hockeytown. Motown. Detroit. 
Call it what you want. 
But please, just respect it. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Adam Llorens can be reached at allorens@nd.edu 

President Perry 
I know all of you care who I am going to endorse for the upcoming republican presidential nomination, therefore let me get it out in the open so that I have hard evidence to cite when I am proven correct. Not only am I picking Gov. Rick Perry to be the party nominee, but I am also pre­dicting him as our 45th president. 
Is he my ideal candidate? Mark Easely 

No, but he’s close Elephant enough, and in the Room has some swagger to boot. Given the field of candidates, I don’t see anyone rising out of the woodwork to beat Perry. There is always a chance for a race-ending scandal, but that doesn’t seem to fit the bill given his consistent, con­servative record. 
Perry is the “vanilla” candidate, if you will. He is a safe pick, with a proven record of success and values. He has experience running a large state in administrative and legislative roles, which are skills that can trans­late very well to the presidency. 
He is a Washington outsider and a man of the people. He speaks well enough, and he has a believability about him that makes him come off as real and down to earth. He is a Christian and makes it known that he is in public. While a minority in this country is turned off by such brazen religious showmanship, many find it refreshing. As long as social issues don’t take too much of a front row stand, I can respect an overtly Christian leader as well. 
Perry is a partisan. He likes guns, the military, fiscal responsibility, low taxes and states’ rights. He was an 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Air Force captain and a Texas A&M graduate, and has all-American looks. People can see how he would fit the job and he has the ideas to do it well. And don’t even get me started on how much more competent he looks when juxtaposed against Pres. Obama and his record. 
Upon first glance, Perry does not have the rousing qualities that have defined great conservative leaders like Ronald Reagan. He doesn’t have that fire that makes his espousals so absolute that any other way of solving the problem at hand is foolhardy. Perry can command respect, but he doesn’t necessarily command the heart. 
That doesn’t mean he won’t develop these traits as he becomes hardened by opposition in Washington. We also don’t know how he will handle certain things. What will he do with illegal immigration? How much of a war hawk will he be? Will he really be successful in changing the Washington culture and getting the reforms we so desperately need? 
More of these questions will be raised and answered along the cam­paign trail, but we won’t really know for sure until we put him in office. It is still very possible he will surprise us and develop into a great leader, the chosen one we so desperately seek to lead us from the darkness of Obamageddon, the Barracolypse. Only time will tell, and I hope I am taken by surprise. 
Perry’s strengths are also his weak­nesses in some cases. Being a Texas governor, the liberals will quickly try to make the connection between Perry and Bush, using their elitist attitude to assault his intelligence in the eyes of the American people. They will run around screaming about his poor college grades (where is Obama’s transcript?) as evidence of his inability to lead the country. They will mock his pleasant Texas drawl and his small town roots. His state school pedigree will be no match for Obama’s Harvard degree, in their elit­ist eyes. 
I don’t think America will fall for it this time, however, because that Harvard degree hasn’t stopped Obama from tanking the economy, let­ting over a thousand U.S. Servicemen die in conflicts overseas, keeping mil­lions of Americans unemployed, inflating the national debt to break the bank levels and screwing up our healthcare system for years to come. 
Heck, many probably would have preferred another Bush term over the last four years to what we actually got. 
Now don’t get me wrong, I’m not a total Perry fan-boy. I hadn’t even heard of the guy until he announced he would run. And I do have a lot of love for many of the candidates run­ning for their shot at the nomination. I think many of them will make great administration officials if they want to serve in that capacity, but we have to pick the candidate that, without a shadow of a doubt, will beat Barrack Obama in 2012. 
We have to pick the safe candidate, because no lion has risen to take back his pride. All the other candidates have their glaring weaknesses for the top job, but I love their enthusiasm and conservative conviction. 
Perry is our man, and if he is who I hope he is, he will unite the party, defeat Obama and his liberal allies and make this country great again. 
Mark Easely is a senior Computer Science major. He can be reached at measely@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Reason has always existed, but not always in a reasonable form.” 
Karl Marx German political philosopher 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Old age is the most unexpected of things that can happen to a man.” 
Leon Trotsky Russian politician and revolutionary 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, August 26, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
Make or break for Republican party 
While the Republican Party is too powerful to fold, it is becoming increasingly susceptible to a dramatic short-term setback. Unfortunately, many early GOP frontrunners are will­ing to take stances that Brian Kaneb isolate mod­erate vot-Guest Columnist ers. 
The issue is not the actual existence of these ideologues — they will always be there — but rather the fact that many GOP nominee hopefuls have fallen into this trap. To this point, candidates have been unable find a balance between rhetoric that riles up their base and rhetoric that appeals to independents. 
Republicans have yet to capitalize on President Obama’s biggest shortcom­ing — the economy. So far, candidates have essentially chosen style over sub­stance when it comes to this issue. 
Just days after announcing his can­didacy for president, Texas Governor Rick Perry referred to the Federal Reserve’s monetary policies as “treacherous.” This is not a ludicrous argument; for the first time in our nation’s history, our gross public debt is larger than our gross domestic product. 
However, he didn’t stop there. Governor Perry then suggested Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke was acting “treasonous” and that he would “treat him pretty ugly.” Whether or not this was an actual threat is up for debate, but Governor Perry crossed a line. 
Instead of getting caught up in the moment — he was at a rally in Iowa when he made this statement — he should have expanded on why our attitude towards spending is unsus­tainable. Undecided voters are rarely convinced to support a candidate based on such senseless banter. 
The same goes for Representative Michelle Bachmann, who has not only argued that Secretary of Treasury Timothy Geithner should resign, but also that our national debt is a form of “slavery.” Yes, it is true that we are technically indebted and bound to var­ious nations to a certain degree. 
However, considering our unique history, equating overspending with such a practice is a risky line to walk. It not only isolates moderate voters, but also angers conservative minori­ties who feel that such a statement understates the seriousness of slavery. 

For better or for worse, most Americans believe that Mrs. Bachmann is exaggerating our prob­lems for political gain. If she is to compete against the affable President Obama in the general election, Representative Bachmann will need to take a step away from using intense language. 
Even when it comes to an issue such as climate change, the Republican candidates are skeptical. According to a 2009 study by the University of Illinois, 97.4 percent of active clima­tologists agree that humans play a role in climate change. Sadly, many presidential hopefuls are unwilling to support government activity to miti­gate the effects of climate change. 
Governor Rick Perry believes, “There are a substantial number of scientists who have manipulated data.” Michelle Bachmann called the theory a “hoax” and has even advocat­ed for the abolishment of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Though the U. S. has always been hesitant to address the environ­ment due to a fear of economic reprisals, candidates should not com­pletely ignore scientific consensus. 
Unfortunately, we are in the midst of the most partisan political environ­ment in decades. After reading this opinion article, many of our student body may assume that I am simply a biased democrat. On the contrary, I am actually an independent libertari­an. I hold many traditionally conser­vative views, but am still convinced that the Republican Party is headed down the wrong road. 
If the Republican Party loses the general election to someone as unpop­ular as President Obama, who has a 38 percent approval rating, the neces­sity for internal adjustments will only become more obvious. 
Brian Kaneb is a sophomore studying political science. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A sad story 
I went to mass on Tuesday and, as you know, there was a free picnic afterwards. As I waited in line for food, a girl with a huge Canon camera came up to me. She told me she was with the newspaper and asked if she could take my picture for The Observer’s section called “Question of the Day.” 
Well, I thought I had a great answer. And she said it was her favorite so far. I said my Summer Anthem was “Time of My Life” by Green Day. 
Pretty classic! I know what you’re thinking, such a product of our generation. Brilliant! 
The next day, with great anticipation after my morning study­ing with a cup of joe, I went to get The Observer. 
My fingers twitched with giddiness as I flipped through the pages. I sprung the newspaper open. I ran my eyes over the six faces of the day, and to my astonishment, I was no where to be seen. 
There was no smiling me staring up at me from the gray and white pages of this acclaimed newspaper we so greatly adore. 
I was missing. 
I closed the newspaper and opened it again. And wouldn’t you know it, there was the same result. 
I found the nearest bench and sat for some time. It took a while for me to process what had just occurred. 
I had been filtered. In my place, some one else had been cho­sen. It is probably futile to mention that each person had the same answer and were from the same dorm, but indeed that was the case. 
I don’t know what to make of this event. Like a skimmer sift­ing a leaf out of the pool, I had been dropped to the exterior of the yard and, similarly, to the trash bin on a microchip. 
Will I renounce the Observer.? 
No, no, I won’t. I am much too faithful a reader for that. I will give it another gander . 
Tom Coughlin 
graduate student Fischer Graduate Apartments Aug. 25 

UWIRE 

Get back in the gym, health nut says 
In the beginning, there was only you and the thought — the impulse to exercise. 
That thought often does not come in the form of a great spiritual moment of clarity. More often than not, it comes from the real­ization that your jeans don’t fit, your body is 
RJ Young 
now bulging out of places you had no 

Oklahoma Daily 
idea existed or your inability to make it up three flights of stairs without gasping for oxygen. 
So, here you are at a gym — nay, the human torture chamber — and all you can think is, “What happens now?” You could either turn around and run back to the couch, your favorite bag of potato chips and a pint of Ben and Jerry’s finest, or you could man up — or woman up, as the case may be — and tame the dragon. 
You know what you have to do. 
You know it won’t be easy. But if you choose to take the plunge, forcing your body to endure the suffering needed to reach your goal, you will be rewarded in pounds lost, inches cinched and measures of confidence. 
That’s why you’re ultimately in the gym, isn’t it? You want to prove to yourself you can do this. You want to prove to the mirror you aren’t the person it reflects you to be. 
So first things first: Be sure you are dressed appropriately. That means gym shorts, a t-shirt and tennis shoes are the style of the day. (You may wear a sweatband if you must, but please leave the kneehigh socks at home. The ‘80s ended more than 20 years ago.) 
You don’t want your workout clothes to fit too tightly or be flamboyant — the gym is not a night club. You are there to work, and your dress should reflect that. 
Find a vacant stationary bike or treadmill and pedal or walk at a leisurely pace for three to five minutes. The goal right now is to warm your body up for the work it will have to per­form in the coming hour. 
Use this time to reflect on why you are in the gym and what you want to get out of a daily exercise regimen. 
Found your center? Fantastic. 
For the workout, you will want to hit the weights first, then do a form of cardiovascular exercise. Your body needs to be able to work at its least fatigued when lifting weights. This will help you prevent injury and allow you to perform more repetitions with more weight. 
Generally speaking, weight training allows the body to burn 200-300 calories per hour depending on the weight of the person and the intensity level at which they exercise. Weight lifting also is important because it helps promote fat loss. 
For beginners, running through a full-body weightlifting exercise regimen is a daunting task, so for now, pick four exercises — prefer­ably two lower-body and two upper-body — and complete three sets of 10 repetitions for each. The last repetition of each set of exer­cises should be hard and provoke the urge to make a nasty face. If you’re able to smile and giggle by your 10th rep, you’re doing it wrong. 
This part of the workout should take between 20 and 30 minutes depending on your fitness level. 
After you’ve worked up a sweat with the weights, it’s time to hit the cardio floor. As a general rule, the longer you are able to per­form light to moderate cardiovascular activity, the more fat you will burn. And after all, burning fat is what it’s all about. If it’s been a while since you strapped on your running shoes, you might opt to tighten up your shoelaces and go for a stroll. 
Though it is the easiest form of cardio, it won’t get you very far in the fat-burning game. 
Now that you’re body is pissed off at you, it’s time to cool down. If there is a stationary bike around, you might pedal on it for three to five minutes like you did during your warm-up or walk leisurely on the treadmill. You must do something that requires you to move your extremities, but slowly. It is crucial that you stay slightly active at the end of a workout to promote blood flow throughout your body and to help kick-start the recovery process. 
Get a drink of water, make a healthy food choice immediately following your workout and get a good night’s rest because tomorrow you’re going to wake up and do it all over again, right? 
This article was originally published in the Aug. 16 edition of The Oklahoma Daily, serv­ing the University of Oklahoma. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, August 26, 2011 

reason behind his stage name choice. 

“I came from a more experimental background, and there were some very overly-serious, border­line-academic type experimental musicians. I want­ed to pick a name that they would be embarrassed to play with. You know Girl Talk sounded exactly the opposite of a man playing a laptop, so that’s what I chose.” 
Girl Talk often releases his LPs at no cost through 



By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
When one hears the name Girl Talk, the first image that comes to mind is probably not a male DJ from Pittsburgh spinning complex mashups from a laptop, using digital sampling and combin­ing unlikely songs together. 
But that is exactly who Girl Talk is, and he has 
gained both commercial and critical success from five full-length albums of mashup material. 
As eclectic as Girl Talk’s music is, his career is even more so. Before he was Girl Talk, he was simply Gregg Gillis, a biomedical engi­neering student at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. While focusing on tissue engineering in school, Gillis made music 
on the side under the 
alias Girl Talk. After graduating, he worked as an engineer, eventually quitting in May 2007 to focus primarily on his music. 
Today, Girl Talk creates mashup-style remixes, using samples from more than a dozen songs at once, ranging from recent pop to classic rock to alternative to hip hop. 
In a 2009 interview with FMLY, Gillis revealed the his record label Illegal Art’s website. For example, he digi­tally sold his fourth album, 2008’s “Feed the Animals, ” his most critically suc­cessful to date, using a “pay -what -you ­like” system similar to the release of Radiohead’s 2007 album “In Rainbows.” Since the critical and commer­cial success of “Feed the Animals,” Girl 


Talk has sold all his albums in a similar manner, including the recently-released free LP, “All Day.” 
Girl Talk clearly holds a penchant for making complex multi-layered mashups, using not much more than his laptop and creativity. However, he also has the phenomenal ability to get the crowd dancing at live shows. Girl Talk will perform live at the B1 Block Party on Notre Dame’s campus this weekend, along with opening acts Midwest Hype and Tim Stop. 
Midwest Hype plays an eclectic mix of funk, reg­gae and pop — a musical blend the band refers to as “Urban Garage Jazz.” The LaPorte, Indiana-based band has been releasing both covers and original material through their website since 2008, as well as tours. Among their covers is an acoustic version of Notorious B.I.G.’s 1994 single, “Big Poppa.” Audiences acclaim the band’s live perform­ances as intense, high-energy and danceable. 
Tim Stop, an energetic and soulful pop rock artist, just recently performed at Summerfest — Milwaukee’s annual summer music festival. His phenomenal songwriting style, vocals and stage presence draw audiences in. 
More than simply musical acts, the B1 Block Party features various fun activities, from Eurobungy to rock climbing to corn hole. The doors open at 5 p.m. Saturday evening, and the opening acts take the stage at 5:30 p.m. Girl Talk performs from 9:30 p.m. to 11 p.m., and the fun extends throughout the after party until 4 a.m. 

Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 




Observer File Photo 
Observer File Photo 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, August 26, 2011 ndmscobserver.com | page 13 
By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
Shakespeare famously wrote, “A rose by any other name would smell as sweet.” In “The Importance of Being Earnest,” Oscar Wilde playfully disagrees. 
The produc­tion, being put on this week­end by the Notre Dame Student Players, is car­ried by Wilde’s renowned wit but bolstered by the individual personalities the actors bring to their characters. 
The rehearsal schedule has been hectic for the cast and crew, consider­ing they have been rehearsing for just under two weeks, but that doesn’t cause the production to lose any of its charm. 
“It’s been a very fast-paced process, but every step has been so much fun,” Director Renee Roden said when asked about the experience of putting together a show at the end of the first week of classes. 
The performance even addresses the th rown -togeth er nature of the show’s rehearsal process in the opening scene. 
Two actors enter the stage talking to each other and the audi­ence, leaving some watching confused, until the rest of the cast enters. The noise rises to a loud clatter and it is finally under­stood that the actors are entering as them­selves rather than their characters. 

They reveal a nervous energy, and the possible stress involved with put­ting on the production in such a short amount of time. The addition to Wilde’s script serves to make the entire pro­duction more endearing. 
The show, set to take place behind Pangborn, is made more charming by its surroundings. 
“We’ll be per­forming on a beautiful little tree-lined sec­tion of West Quad, behind Pangborn and next to Reckers,” 
Roden said when asked about the eclectic setting. 
The idea is for the play to be a picnic show and for the audience to sit com­fortably on blankets and eat food as they watch the story unfold. 
Actors perform barefoot, and the set is comprised of a single square table. The minimalist setting truly allows the actors to shine. 
Lady Bracknell, por­trayed by Sloan Thacker, has perfected the air of pretention necessary for the role. Thacker’s mannerisms make the persnickety aunt come to life in the t comical way. 
The banter between Jack and Algernon, played by Chris Brandt and Chris Silvestri respectively, is great. Jack is the quirky straight man to Algernon’s free-wheel­ing and slick sense of humor. 
Gwendolyn and Cecily, brought to life by Clare Cooney and Stephanie Rice, bring an incredible amount of sophistication to something as catty as a girl fight. 

When imagining such a duel, many call to mind the scene from “Mean Girls” in which Cady Herron pounces on Regina George in the midst of a crowded cafeteria. Oscar Wilde’s 19th century version is infinitely more refined yet equally hilarious. 
The scene is a perfect example of the insanity bubbli ng beneath the surface throughout the entire show. 

“All of us are mischie­vous, ridicu­lous beings, but when we’re out in society or in public we put on this very earnest show of being elegant, refined creatures,” Roden said. 
Though the play premiered in 1895, it isn’t held back by the time period in which it was originated. 

Lines like, “All women become like their mothers, it’s their tragedy. No men do, it’s theirs,” timelessly speak to phenomena that persist well into the 21st century. 
The production has updated a few small lines to make the play even more relatable — watch out for a cleverly placed “Twilight” reference — but they do not take away from the original script in any way. 
“Even though it’s technically a period piece, this show is anything but dated. It’s a very modern story, and so relatable for our age group.” 
The show has done something unique in terms of advertising as 
well. Instead of relying on table tents and posters, they have taken to Twitter to promote the show through their account @EarnestND. 
“We gave the actors access to the Twitter account, so they could write posts ‘in character,’ which was another fun element,” Roden said of their fresh take on advertising. 
“The Importance of Being Earnest” begins today at 4 p.m. The rich dia­logue and relaxed atmosphere is the perfect way to begin a theatrically charged year. 
On campus 
What: “The Importance of Being Earnest” presented by the ND Student Players Where: West Quad, behind Pangborn When: Today, 4:00 p.m. How much: free 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 





MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 
page 14 

ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, August 26, 2011 
MLB 

Bronx Bombers knock three grand slams in rout 
ed a three-game sweep. Cliff Pennington homered, 
Associated Press 
With MLB approaching its doubled and drove in four runs 
NEW YORK — The New York 200,000th regular season game for the A’s. Scott Sizemore also Yankees became the first team next month, the Yankees put on homered. in major league history to hit a unique show with their bats — Yet for all the gigantic hits, this three grand slams in a game, and gloves, too. day seemed to turn on some-with Robinson Cano, Russell Former All-Star catcher Jorge thing much more elementary — Martin and Curtis Granderson Posada made his first career the weather. connecting Thursday in a wet, appearance at second base and Yankees fans weren’t in a for-wild 22-9 romp over the had the final play, fielding a giving mood. They booed when a Oakland Athletics. grounder and firing a one-hop battered Phil Hughes walked off 
In nearly a century of storied throw that knocked over first in the third inning and jeered slugging, the Bronx Bombers baseman Nick Swisher and left when Pennington hit reliever never enjoyed a day like this. him laughing as he caught it. Cory Wade’s first pitch for a 
On a dreary afternoon, some The Yankees had their chances three-run homer that put the fans headed home with the to hit even more slams. Athletics ahead 7-1. Yankees trailing 7-1 after three They came at bat a startling But there was a big cheer innings and rain still falling in a 17 times with the bases loaded when the sun poked through the game that began after an 89-— Derek Jeter alone got four clouds as the A’s batted in the minute delay. tries, He grounded out twice, fourth. In-between innings, the 
Turns out they missed the struck out and walked in those stadium sound crew played Yankees coming home — over spots. “Here Comes the Sun” by the and over and over. “I don’t if I’ve ever heard of a Beatles. 
Cano began the barrage with stat of a guy being up four times Moments later, the Yankees his slam in the fifth off starter with the bases loaded,” Girardi bats came out, too. Rich Harden, making it 7-6. said. Martin began New York’s rally Martin connected in the sixth off Jeter did get three hits and with a solo home run in the Fautino De Los Santos for a 10-7 briefly boosted his average to fourth. Cano lined his second lead. Granderson took his turn .300. Quite a climb from that slam of the season and sixth of in eighth, launching a two-out July day that began with him his career the next inning with a drive off Bruce Billings. mired at .257 and ended with liner to right field. 

“It’s a pretty crazy accomplish-him getting his 3,000th career Martin hit his slam the next ment, when you think about it,” hit. inning, sending a fly barely over was Sept. 14, 1999, when Bernie Tony Lazzeri of the Yankees hit a Yankees manager Joe Girardi Granderson’s slam gave him the wall in right-center for a 10-Williams and Paul O’Neill did it pair at Philadelphia. said. “It’s amazing.” 103 RBIs. The Yankees had hit 7. Martin took a curtain call at Toronto. Boone Logan (4-2) got the win 
Martin homered twice and two slams in a game three times, after his third career slam. This was the seventh time the and De Los Santos (2-1) lost. doubled, setting career highs but never at home. Granderson capped the out-A’s franchise gave up two slams Alex Rodriguez returned to the with five hits and six RBIs. Cano The Yankees scored six times burst with a no-doubt drive to in a game, STATS LLC said. Yankees’ lineup after missing drove in five runs as the Yankees in the seventh, helped by seven right center. Detroit’s Ryan Raburn and two games with a sprained left pulled off their biggest come-walks in the inning, and six The last time the Yankees had Brandon Inge did it last in 2009 thumb. He had two hits and back win since 2006 and avoid-more in the eighth. hit two grand slams in a game and he first came in 1936, when scored three runs. 

TENNIS 

Roddick wins handily, slated to face Isner in semifnals 
Associated Press  Roddick, who appears to be back to full strength after bat- to win a match that lasted near­ly 2 hours. He advanced to his  
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  — tling an abdominal injury the  fourth semifinal of the season.  
Top-seeded Andy Roddick rolled  last few weeks, jumped to a 5-0  “Somebody turned up the  
to  a  6-1,  6-4  victory  over  lead in the first set. He kept the  heat today and the humidity is  
Argentina’s Juan Monaco  on  pressure on  throughout, and  what really bothered me,” said  
Thursday  afternoon  in  the  has won three straight matches  the 6-foot-9, 240-pound Isner.  
Winston-Salem Open quarterfi­ pretty easily in a final tuneup  “I’m a big guy and I’m expend­ 
nals.  before next week’s U.S. Open.  ing more energy than my oppo- 
Roddick will take on fellow  “I’ve won the first sets pretty  nents because of how much I  
American John Isner in Friday’s  handily this week,” Roddick  weigh and I’m sweating bullets  
semifinals. Isner rallied past  said. “I’ve been anxious to play  out there. It takes a lot out of  
eighth-seeded  Marcos  and I’ve been ready to play and  me.”  
Baghdatis of Cyprus 1-6, 6-3, 6­ that  sets  the  tone  for  the  Isner  was  also  helped by  
4 earlier Thursday.  match.”  Baghdatis converting just 38  
Roddick needed just  more  You kind of give yourself  a  percent of his first serves.  
than an hour on a hot afternoon  good look in the second set and  In the third set. Isner double-AP  
as he dominated with his serve,  he’s feeling a little more pres- faulted twice as Isner went up Andy Roddick returns a ball in his quar terfinal match  
getting his first serve in 81 per- sure.”  5-4. Isner then served for the against Juan Monaco Thursday in the Winston-Salem Open.  
cent of the time.  The 26-year-old Isner is also  clincher and had three  aces  
“I didn’t feel too much of the  feeling some pressure to win a  with two of the serves reaching  played  so  far,” Roddick said.  never easy to play Roddick.  
heat, to be honest,” Roddick  tournament in his own back­ 140 mph.  “The last time we played I went  “He’s been holding serve pret­ 
said. “I always have done OK in  yard. The Greensboro native  Roddick, who has been here  3 for 3  on  break points and  ty easily in this event so far.  
it. I didn’t think about it too  had to fight back from  a  set  before  to  compete  for  the  that’s impossible against him  He’s similar to me and he relies  
much out there.”  down, but once he got his serve  United States in past Davis Cup  and that doesn’t happen all the  a  lot  on  his  serve.  From the  
Monaco, who was the seventh  going he calmed down and exe­ ties, doesn’t expect  an  easy  time.”  baseline he’s so fit and in such  
seed,  gave up  nine  aces  to  cuted his plan.  match against Isner.  Isner, who has been staying at  good shape he won’t blow you  
Roddick and failed to break  Isner, ranked 28th, needed all  “It will be completely different  home with his parents just a  away from the baseline but he’ll  
Roddick’s serve.  the crowd support he could get  than the three matches I’ve  few minutes away, said it’s  make a lot of balls.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

3BR 2BA or entire house for rent for ND football. 2 miles from campus.
WANTED FOR SALE FOR RENT $350 per bedroom or $1000 for NOTICES PERSONAL 
entire house. Fri 5:00 pm through SALES REP to sell ads to local SC Ticket Raffle 3BR House available now. Close to Sun 2:00 pm. Responsible parties Everyone on campus is getting UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? businesses. The dream of the Irish is alive in ND/SM campus. Well-kept, cute, call 574-286-0321 Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has GREAT earning potential! Portland! clean, laundry and yard. No ——————————————— cheap eats, many resources in place to assist SEND resume to Portland ND Club is raffling 2 USC pets/smoking. Available now. Call AAA Clean 2 BR apartment for rent. movie tickets, you. If you or someone you love carrier539@gmail.com tickets/2 nights' hotel. Drawing on 269-429-6346 Close to ND and Saint Mary's. $530 2 for 1's and needs confidential support or assis­——————————————— Sept. 10. ——————————————— month + $400 deposit. Rent tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Looking to start bible study group. $25/1 entry, $100/5 entries. YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO LIVE includes heat, water and trash. FREE stuff. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For 10 lesson premillennial dispensa-HERE! Beautifully Renovated 4-Tenant responsible for electric and more information, visit ND's website tional viewpoint covering entire bible Enter online at www.ndportland.org 5bed/2bath Home Walk to Campus! gas water heater. Coin washer/dryer at: in 1 hour sessions. Call Tom 574-Off of Eddy St. Priced to Rent on-site. Call 574-274-2648. Credit Get yours too. TEXT IRISH1 to 876-8928 Email NDPortland@gmail.com Quickly! Call Mike 615-419-2892 check required. 99000 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
MLB 

Four errors sink Cubs in home loss to Braves 
track and get in synch. 
Associated Press 
“I’ve seen him struggle 
CHICAGO — Before before and he finds a way to Thursday’s game, Chicago settle down keep us in it. Cubs manager Mike Quade Just wasn’t his day.” said the biggest factor in his Marlon Byrd homered and team’s improvement since Tyler Colvin added a triple the All-Star break was better and a run for the Cubs. defensive play. He might The Braves took three of have spoken too soon. four from Chicago, which 
Brian McCann homered has gone 20-18 since the All-twice and the Atlanta Braves Star break. took advantage of four Cubs After Michael Bourn led off errors to beat Chicago 8-3. the game with one of his 
“We didn ’t execute very four hits, Martin Prado well on defense all the way reached when Garza around,” second baseman dropped a flip from Carlos Darwin Barney said. “You Pena at first for the first have those days. We’ve been error of the day. Garza then playing very well on defense fell behind McCann, who for the past while, so it’s homered into a stiff wind in kind of weird to see that.” right -center and put the 
The Cubs have played bet-Braves ahead 3-0 before ter in the field of late, but Garza had retired a batter. still lead the majors with “It is what it is, man, ” 108 errors this season. Four Garza said. “Really can’t say 
of Atlanta ’s runs were much. When Bourn starts off unearned. the game with a jam shot, 

Matt Garza (6-10) allowed Prado hits the same thing, six runs — three earned — it’s a slow roller. It’s just and eight hits over five frustrating. Oh well. Get innings. He struck out six ready in five more days, and also committed one of right?” The Braves regained the often, ” Quade said. “The season in sight, he vowed to the errors. The Cubs cut into the lead lead with two runs in the play Cassie was given an plug on. 
Garza was coming off one on Barney’s groundout in the third with help from the error on was a tougher play. “I’m not going to quit, ” of his best starts of the sea-bottom of the first. In the Cubs. Castro committed his I know he was trying to be Garza said. “What ’s the son in a 3-0 win over St. second, Byrd brought the NL-leading 22nd error and quick because Bourn was point of that? You might as Louis last Saturday, but Cubs within a run with a Garza walked Dan Uggla running.” well not even show up. I bat-never seemed to settle into a homer to left. Colvin tripled with the bases full. Garza has had a hard-luck tled my butt off today. It’s rhythm on Thursday. into the right -field corner Barney and Reed Johnson season, posting a sub-.500 just one of those things. I 
“Garz just followed himself and scored on Geovany also committed errors. record despite leading Cubs can’t explain it, don’t have all day,” Quade said. “Just Soto ’s dribbler, tying the “To see Reed and Barn, starters in strikeouts and any words for it. never really could get on score at 3-all. you don ’t see that very ERA. With the end of the Dumbfounded practically.” 


page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 26, 2011 
NASCAR 

Patrick announces switch to NASCAR for 2012 
With her telegenic looks, 
Associated Press 
mass appeal, not to mention 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — With racy Super Bowl ads, Patrick the not-so-subtle shape of a brings something that’s hard stock car under cover just in to come by: star power. front of her and spotlights “We are pleased Danica glaring in her face, Danica Patrick has chosen to race Patrick feigned drama for an full time in NASCAR in 2012,” announcement everyone NASCAR chairman and CEO already knew was coming. Brian France said in a state­
“For breaking news that ment. “She has demonstrated will shock the world …,” she a strong desire to compete said facetiously on Thursday. and NASCAR provides the 
Peeling the lid off the best opportunity to race worst-kept secret in auto rac-against the top drivers in the ing, Patrick ended months of world with the largest and skirting questions about her most loyal fan base in motor-future by officially declaring sports on a week -to -week her plans to leave IndyCar in basis. Danica has shown solid 2012 to race a full improvement in NASCAR and Nationwide season for JR we believe her decision to Motorsports and a part-time run full time in the NASCAR Sprint Cup schedule with Nationwide Series, with addi­Stewart-Haas Racing. tional races in the NASCAR 

One of the most marketable Sprint Cup Series, will be stars in auto racing, Patrick exciting for our fans and a had been rumored to be great challenge for her.” headed to NASCAR even On the other side of the before she ran her first stock wheel, Patrick’s decision race, the ARCA series event leaves a big void in IndyCar. at Daytona in 2010. Even The series has made some while racing limited big strides under the direc-Nationwide schedules the tion of CEO Randy Bernard, Cup races with Stewart-Haas, after a decent run. started racing stock cars, past two years for Dale who has aggressively with an eye on a full season She became the first but has gained ground this Earnhardt Jr.’s team, Patrick reshaped the sport with inno-in 2013. woman to win an IndyCar year. had deflected talk of her leav-vative marketing approaches. Patrick would like to race at race at Japan in 2008 and After that first ARCA race ing IndyCar for the fenders of But for all the successes the Daytona 500, though the was the first to lead the Indy at Daytona, she struggled NASCAR. IndyCar has had, Patrick is team hasn ’t mapped out 500, when she did it in 2005 with the nuances of the 
That all changed, at least still arguably the sport ’s where she’ll start or which — the same year she earned Nationwide car, her best fin-officially, when she signed a biggest star — certainly it’s races will fill out the schedule the pole at Kansas. Patrick ish a 19th at Homestead contract with GoDaddy.com most recognizable — and los-this year, and didn’t rule out also had a high finish of with an average finish of chairman Bob Parsons in ing her will likely put a dent another run at the third at the Brickyard in 28th. front of TV cameras and a in the sport’s momentum. Indianapolis 500 — even after 2009 on her to way to a Patrick has been much few dozen cheering company “Danica has always been a Andretti Autosport career-best fifth in the sea-smoother this season, post-employees on Thursday. great ambassador for announced it had reached a son standings. ing three top -10 finishes, 
“If it was about money, I’d IndyCar, and there is no mutual agreement to part Patrick is currently 12th in with a career-best of fourth have gone a long time ago,” doubt she has left a positive ways with her after the 2011 the IndyCar standings, with at Las Vegas — the best fin-Patrick said from GoDaddy’s impression on our sport,” season. seven top-10 finishes. ish by a woman at a nation-offices in north Scottsdale. “I Bernard said in a statement. “We’re thrilled with Danica “The thing you see in al NASCAR race. She’s made just go where my heart tells “She has touched millions of Patrick’s decision to join us Danica right away is how good progress as a part-time me, where my gut tells me to fans and many that were new for the 2012 season and look-determined she is to be good driver and expects to get go, where I’m enjoying my to motorsports. Danica ing forward to seeing her at what she does,” Stewart-better with a full-time shot. life the most, where I feel like attracted a fan base that behind the wheel of a Haas owner Tony Stewart “I feel like in the last year, I can have the most success. every athlete and sports NASCAR Nationwide Series said. “She’s very dedicated I’ve really come around I’ve truly enjoyed my experi-property in the world would car on a consistent basis,” to taking the time and effort much more on the track and ence in NASCAR, to the point love to have. We should give said Matt Jauchius, chief to make the transition from the top-10s are happening that I want to do it full-time.” her a great farewell the rest marketing and strategy offi-Indy cars to stock cars. She much more frequently, ” 
Patrick will run most of her of this season as she opens a cer for Nationwide Insurance. has talent, she has the right Patrick said. “I feel like I’m races in the lower-tier new page in her career and “Her presence will continue mindset, and she has the getting it more and more all Nationwide Series with only a wish her continued success to make our Series stronger proper drive and determina-the time. I still have a lot to handful of Sprint Cup races, with her new direction.” and more competitive. She tion. It doesn’t matter who it learn, that’s for sure, but I but her switch to NASCAR Patrick has run 20 races in has proven to raise aware-is you’re looking for, those really feel confident that I should be a big boost to a two years with JR ness levels of our sport, spon-are the key attributes that can be successful in the sport that’s been hurt by a Motorsports and has five sors and competitors; and you look for in a driver, and future.” sagging economy and a dip in more on the schedule this that’s good for everyone Danica’s got them.” There ’s no turning back popularity from its heyday season. She plans to run involved.” Patrick had a sharp learn-now that the secret’s offi­just a few years back. between eight and 10 Sprint Patrick will leave IndyCar ing curve when she first cially out. 

MLB 

Orioles complete sweep of Twins behind Reynolds homer 
added a two-run double for the all-time high for me with the “I’ve had a rough stretch here “It wasn’t my best outing, but 
Associated Press 

Orioles, who haven’t had a win-losing and seeing guys get hurt,” the past week or two,” Reynolds I was able to get through six 
MINNEAPOLIS — The ning streak this long since June said right fielder Michael said. “You know, you get a cou-and not have to use the bullpen Baltimore Orioles have been 6-10. Cuddyer, who has been with the ple knocks here and there and right away,” Reyes said. getting their brains beaten in “Sooner or later,” manager Twins for 10 years. “It’s tough to kind of get some confidence The Twins couldn’t say the for the last two months and Buck Showalter said, “the base-go out there. Our coaches going up a little bit. Hopefully it same thing. limped into Target Field this ball gods kind of let you up for deserve an effort and our fans keeps snowballing here for me Liriano walked Robert Andino week without a series victory in air.” deserve an effort.” and I finish up the season with the bases loaded in the sec-their last 14 tries. Anthony Swarzak (3-4) gave The Twins have looked lifeless strong.” ond inning to fall behind 1-0 
They didn’t just win the series up five runs on eight hits in 3 1-on the mound and in the bat-The lefty Reyes once went and was placed on the disabled against the hapless Minnesota 3 innings after left-hander ter’s box for most of the past winless in 28 straight starts, list after the game with a Twins. The AL-worst O’s domi-Francisco Liriano left with a month, turning Target Field into and who had allowed 15 earned strained shoulder. Alex Burnett nated them like no other oppo-strained shoulder after two a place where opposing slumps runs in his last two outings, took his place to start the third. nent this season. innings. come to die. breezed through a Twins lineup It’s the third time in the 
Mark Reynolds hit a three-run Joe Mauer also missed his The Orioles had lost five in a that has scored one run or less last five days that a Twins homer and Jo Jo Reyes went six second straight game for the row when the series started, in seven of the last 10 games. starter hasn’t made it out of strong innings to lead the injury-ravaged Twins, with a and Reynolds and Reyes were Justin Morneau doubled home the third inning. Nick Orioles to a 6-1 victory over the stiff neck keeping him out. the latest beneficiaries. The Trevor Plouffe to tie the game 1-Blackburn left in the second Twins on Thursday, Baltimore’s Vlad Guerrero, Nolan Reimold slugger entered the series on a 1 in the third inning, but the inning because of injury on first four-game winning streak and Ryan Adams added two hits 6-for-45 (.133) skid with 20 Twins left the bases loaded in Sunday against the Yankees since early June. each for the Orioles, who swept strikeouts. He went 7 for 17 the fifth and hitters 5-9 in the and Brian Duensing was 
Reyes (7-10) allowed one run the Twins at home in a four-(.412) with two homers and order went 1 for 17 with a sin-knocked out by the Orioles in on five hits with four walks and game series for the first time. seven RBIs in the four games in gle, three walks and four strike-the third inning on Tuesday three strikeouts. Craig Tatum “The frustration level is at an Minnesota. outs in the game. night. 
Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
SOCCER 

Barcelona draws Milan in Champions League 
Associated Press 
MONACO — Champions League winner Barcelona will begin its title defense with a match at home to AC Milan, before the traditional powers play two unheralded Eastern European teams in a group drawn by UEFA on Thursday. 
Four-time winner Barcelona hosts the seven-time champion 
— a rematch of the 1994 final which Milan won 4-0 — on Sept. 13, sending forward Zlatan Ibrahimovic back to the Nou Camp where he was harshly judged to be an expensive failure two seasons ago. Group H also includes BATE Borisov of Belarus and Czech newcomer Viktoria Plzen. 
Manchester United, last sea­son’s runner-up, is top-seeded in an apparently weak group with Benfica, Switzerland’s FC Basel and Romanian debutant Otelul Galati. 
Bayern Munich, whose stadi­um will stage the final next May, got a tough draw with Villarreal, big spenders Manchester City and Napoli — all teams from Europe’s four highest ranked leagues. 
Real Madrid, the record nine-time European champion, faces Lyon, four-time winner Ajax and Dinamo Zagreb. 
To get Ibrahimovic in 2009, Barcelona sent (then $66 mil­lion) plus Samuel Eto’o to Inter Milan, but he lasted just one sea­son in coach Pep Guardiola’s system. 
Barca technical director Andoni Zubizarreta said on Thursday that the Sweden inter­national was capable of making his old club pay again. 
“We need to think about all the (Milan) team … but I’m sure we are going to suffer from Ibra,” Zubizarreta said. 
Man United has fond memo­ries of playing Benfica, having beaten the Portuguese club when it won its first European title in 1968. 
“It’s a good draw for us, espe­cially having Sir Bobby Charlton talking about them on stage before the draw,” chief executive David Gill said. “We’ve got to be confident.” 
Otelul Galati director general Marius Stan doubted his club could beat the three-time European champion. 
“We want to win but it’s impossible. We are a little team. For us, it’s a big honor to play Manchester,” said Stan, confirm­ing that the home match will be in Bucharest because Galati’s stadium does not meet UEFA standards. 
Bayern director Karl Hopfner said Group A was “the hardest of all.” 
“It’s four teams from the four best leagues in the world, but we need to qualify,” Hopfner said. 
Man City director Brian Marwood said all the group had “great experience in Europe (and) have won honors at the highest level.” 
Debuting in the world’s most prestigious club competition, City aims to build a global repu­tation after the ruling family of Abu Dhabi funded a spending spree on transfer fees and player wages. 
“We feel we have a very com­petitive squad who can compete at this level,” Marwood said. “I believe this club has got great momentum now.” 
Inter Milan, the 2010 winner, is top-seeded in a group with CSKA Moscow, Lille and Trabzonspor. 
“It’s a dangerous group. That’s the Champions League,” Inter coach Gian Piero Gasperini said. 
Trabzonspor already lost to Benfica in the qualifying rounds but was reprieved by UEFA less than 24 hours before the draw when Turkey’s federation barred domestic champion Fenerbahce while it is investigated in a match-fixing scandal. 
Arsenal was rewarded for a tense passage through the playoff round with a group including Marseille, Olympiakos of Greece and Bundesliga champion Borussia Dortmund, the No. 4 seed all teams wished to avoid. Arsenal opens away to Dortmund on Sept. 13. 


Chelsea was drawn to face Valencia after buying the Spanish club’s star forward Juan Mata this week for a reported $43 million. Group E is completed by Bayer Leverkusen and Belgian champion Genk. 
Two-time winner FC Porto faces long trips to play Group G rivals Shakhtar Donetsk of Ukraine and Russia’s Zenit St. Petersburg. APOEL of Cyprus completes the group. 
Each team plays six matches in a program scheduled from Sept. 13 through Dec. 7. 
The top two in each group advance to the knockout rounds starting in February, and the eight third-placed teams join the Europa League competition in its knockout phase. 
MLB 
Thome traded to the Indians 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Jim Thome has swung back to the Cleveland Indians. 
The slugger accepted a trade from Minnesota on Thursday night to return to the Indians, who are hoping their career leader in home runs can help them catch first-place Detroit in the AL Central. 
Thome spent 12 seasons with Cleveland from 1991­2002, hitting a team-record 334 homers and helping the Indians get to two World Series. He hit 52 in his final season before signing as a free agent with Philadelphia, a decision that angered many Indians fans who will have to welcome him back. 
Earlier this month, the five-time All-Star became the eighth player in history to hit 600 homers. 
The 40-year-old Thome waived a no-trade clause in his contract to clear his return to the Indians, who have been in contention all season but have lost six of their last seven games amid a rash of injuries. Thome’s arrival will soften the loss of designated hitter Travis Hafner, who is on the dis­abled list and may need sea­son-ending foot surgery. 
The Indians put a claim in for Thome on Wednesday, two days after the Twins waived him. Once the Indians were awarded Thome, the clubs had 48 hours to work out a trade. The Twins will receive a player to be named by Oct. 15. 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 26, 2011 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Jacory Harris found among those in violation 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. — Miami has determined that eight football players, including quarterback Jacory Harris, are believed to have committed NCAA violations by associating with booster Nevin Shapiro and have been declared ineligible, said a person with knowledge of the process. 
The person spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity Thursday because no one is authorized to discuss the ongoing investigations by the uni­versity and the NCAA. Shapiro is a convicted Ponzi scheme archi­tect serving a 20-year prison sen­tence for bilking $930 million from investors, and his claims have cast a long shadow over Miami’s season before it even begins. 
Simply being declared ineligible now doesn’t necessarily mean a player would miss any time this season. The Miami Herald first reported the decision to declare the players ineligible. 
Under NCAA rules, when a school finds violations have occurred, the athlete typically is declared ineligible and the NCAA begins a reinstatement process. The NCAA will also decide if that player needs to miss any games. And the clock is running: Miami opens the season at Maryland on Sept. 5. 
“The school must declare the student-athlete ineligible and then can seek reinstatement,” NCAA spokesperson Stacey Osburn said. 
Earlier Thursday, Miami coach Al Golden suggested that the depth chart might not be announced until Tuesday. All of the players implicated by Shapiro in a story published by Yahoo Sports were practicing Thursday, and have been on the field throughout the process. 
“We’ll make sure we practice enough guys because we really don’t know what the future brings,” Golden said. “Hopefully we’ll find out pretty quickly here in the near future if there are any penalties or suspensions, and we’ll adjust accordingly.” 
Golden said he has a plan for which personnel to use against the Terrapins. And another plan, just in case. And, well, another plan, in case things change some more. 
“All of the above,” Golden said. 
Harris and all other Miami play­ers implicated by claims that Shapiro provided dozens of Hurricanes with extra benefits like cash, cars, gifts and sex for the better part of a decade returned to the practice field Thursday after a brief break for the start of the academic year. 
Sean Spence led the Hurricanes in a pre-practice chant that left some onlookers doubled over in laughter. Harris took his spot at the front of a stretching group, a position typically reserved for starters. 
Say this for the `Canes: They’re trying to carry on some sense of business-as-usual. 
“Any projections or anything like that, all it is is speculation,” Golden said. 
Golden also said that in what he believes to be accordance with Atlantic Coast Conference policy, the Hurricanes will divulge their depth chart to the Terrapins before releasing anything publicly. 
“It’s tough because I know how much hard work they put in over there,” said former Hurricanes receiver Reggie Wayne, now with the Indianapolis Colts. “I hope everything turns out right for them, but the one thing about it is it will bring everyone closer together.” 
Spence and Harris are among two of the biggest names wrapped up in the scandal—Spence is con­sidered by many to be Miami’s best defensive player and one of the top linebackers in the ACC. Harris has played 36 games at quarterback for the Hurricanes in his first three seasons, and he’s far-and-away the ACC leader among active players in passing touchdowns. 
University officials haven’t com­mented publicly on the specifics of the process. Miami President Donna Shalala said this week that 15 student-athletes — she did not specify names or teams—were being investigated by university compliance personnel. Shapiro told Yahoo Sports that he provided benefits to 72 athletes, 65 of whom played football for Miami. Of those, 12 are current football players, and one is a member of the men’s basketball team. 
“We’re going about our busi­ness,” Golden said. “Obviously some of the players that are alleged to have done something are guys that have played a lot of football for us, so obviously there’s going to be some adjustments if there are suspensions. Other than that, we’re just moving forward and the kids have been great.” 
MLB 
Fister leads Tigers over Rays 

Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Doug Fister has found the win­ning touch with the Detroit Tigers. 
Fister allowed five hits over seven scoreless innings, Austin Jackson homered and the AL Central-leading Tigers beat the Tampa Bay Rays 2-0 Thursday. 
“All dictated by pitching,” Detroit manager Jim Leyland said. “Fister was tremendous. We needed to shut them down. Fister was just what the doctor ordered for us. You might have better stuff sometimes, but you can’t pitch better than that. He knows exactly what he wants to do with the next pitch.” 
Fister (6-13) struck out five. The right-hander, acquired in a six-player trade with Seattle on July 30, is 3-1 in five starts with the Tigers. 
“My focus every time I go out there, use my fastball and my secondary (pitches) off that,” Fister said. 
Jackson hit a first-inning lead-off homer and made it 2-0 with a sacrifice fly in the fifth. 
The Tigers took three of four from Tampa Bay and have won 16 of their last 25 road games. 
“We, kind of, countered their pitching this series,” Leyland said. “We got just enough to win three games, which was huge. This could have been an 0-4 trip, that’s how good that pitching is. To come out of here with three wins, very pleased.” 
Jeremy Hellickson became the first Rays’ pitcher to strike out four batters in the same inning, accomplishing the feat during the third. After Jackson reached base to start the inning on a third-strike wild pitch, Hellickson then struck out Ramon Santiago, Delmon Young and Victor Martinez. 
Hellickson (11-9) gave up two runs and six hits in seven innings. He had seven strikeouts and one walk. 
After Joaquin Benoit gave up one hit during the eighth, Jose Valverde pitched the ninth to complete a seven-hitter and pick up his 38th save in as many chances this season. 
Casey Kotchman drew a one-out walk in the ninth from Valverde and moved to third on Matt Joyce’s single. The game ended when Sam Fuld lined out to right on a hit-and­run that resulted in Joyce get­ting doubled off at first. 
“The final play of the game we caught a break,” Leyland said. “If you’re winning a few games, that ball’s caught and you double a guy off. If you’re struggling, that ball is down the line. They score the tying runs and you’ve got the win­ning run at third. That’s just the way the game goes.” 
Fister retired his first 13 batters before Kotchman reached on a one-out infield single in the fifth. Third base­man Wilson Betemit was unable to make a backhanded grab on Kotchman’s opposite-field liner. 


Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
NFL 

Packers to add 6,600 new seats to Lambeau Field 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — The Green Bay Packers announced plans Thursday to add 6,600 new seats at venera­ble Lambeau Field in time for the 2013 season, part of a self-funded $130 million project that will be wel ­come news to the 81,000 fans on the waiting list for season tickets. 
The Packers also had fans buzzing by suggesting they might pay for the project through a stock sale that would give even more peo­ple a chance to be a part-owner of one of the NFL’s most storied franchises. 
“We ’re excited to begin work on the expansion of Lambeau Field, ” Packers President Mark Murphy said, noting that additional seats will mean more game-day crowd noise. He also said the community will benefit though con ­struction jobs and having more fans in town for the games. 
The seats will be in four levels in the south end zone. The prices haven ’t been set yet but are expect­ed to range between the current cost for bowl seats, where the top price is $87, and club seats, where the top price is $313. The proj­ect also includes a new rooftop viewing terrace that club-seat holders can use on game days, along with new gates, elevators and access points for peo­ple with disabilities. 
Lambeau Field is the old­est continually operating NFL stadium, and the third-oldest continually operat ­ing venue in major sports behind Chicago ’s Wrigley Field and Boston’s Fenway Park. The stadium has undergone numerous reno­vations, updates and addi­tions since opening in 1957 with 32,500 seats; it now has 73,128. 
The new seats will be dis­tributed through a seniority system. Current season ­ticket holders will get first access with a chance to trade their existing seats, and priority goes to those who have held tickets the longest. After that, fans on the waiting list will finally get a chance they’ve spent decades waiting for. 
Nathan Bitzer, 35, has been on the list since 1996, when he was somewhere around No. 33,000. In 15 years, he has moved up to about 26,000, he said. 
“I’m hopeful,” said Bitzer, who lives in St. Paul, Minn. “But I’ll probably be dead for 200 or 300 years before my name comes up . It ’s more just to affirm my fan­dom with the team.” 
Bitzer joked that he also put his 3-and 4-year-old daughters on the list because “they can choose everything in life but they can ’t choose not to be Packers fans.” 
The team said it was con­sidering raising money through a stock sale, which would be the team ’s fifth people own shares, which the team prohibits from being resold. 


a n d  f i r s t  s i n c e  i t  s o l d  
s h a r e s  f o r  $ 2 0 0  e a c h  i n  
1 9 9 7 .  M o r e  t h a n  1 1 1 , 5 0 0  

Green Bay is the NFL’s only publicly owned team. 
At a shareholder meeting last month, Packers offi ­cials highlighted the team’s strong financial perform ­ance in 2010-11. The team reported a $12 million profit from operations for 2010-2011, up $2.2 million from the previous year. The 
overall net income was $17.1 million — a jump of nearly $12 million over last year, due in large part to improved performance by investments. 
The Packers quoted a study that said the expan­sion is expected to employ about 1,600 workers over the next two years, and they predict the new seats will translate into about $11 million of spending in Brown County from non ­residents. 
The team had previously announced a plan to install new Diamond Vision video boards in time for the start of next year’s season. That $12 million project is being funding jointly by the Packers and the Green Bay/Brown County 
P r o f e s s i o n a l  F o o t b a l l  
Stadium District as  well  as  
user fees.  

The most recent addition at Lambeau was a $295 million project that began in 2001 to add 12,032 seats as well as the popular atri­um, an expanded Pro Shop and several new food and entertainment options. The project included a half-cent county sales tax to raise $160 million and made 4,000 tickets per game available to county resi ­dents only beginning in 2003. 
That tax is set to expire in the next several years, depending on the economy. 

MLB 
Beltran’s HR leads Giants past Padres 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Carlos Beltran was finally healthy enough to give the home fans a reason to cheer. 
Beltran shook of the pain around his right wrist to hit his first home run since being trad­ed to San Francisco, powering the Giants past the San Diego Padres 2-1 on Wednesday night. 
The switch-hitting right fielder wasn’t even sure he could hit lefty before the game. He applied a heat pack to his wrist between innings as the thick summer fog rolled under the lights in the ballpark along the bay, and it was just enough to ease the pain. 
“We decided to give it a try,” Beltran said. “And good things happened.” 
Beltran returned to the start­ing lineup for the first time in more than two weeks, sending a change-up from Tim Stauffer (8­
10) over the wall in right field in the fourth for his 16th home run of the season. The solo shot was the first of his career at AT&T Park. 
Tim Lincecum (12-10) struck out seven and walked five in eight innings, pitching out of the stretch again the entire game. He gave up three hits and also had the go-ahead RBI single. 
Santiago Casilla pitched a per­fect ninth for his first save of the season in place of injured closer Brian Wilson. Lincecum finished with 124 pitches. 
“Guys were making double plays and playing great defense every time I’d walk a guy or something,” Lincecum said. “Everything was just timely.” 
The biggest and best news for the Giants, however, was the rapid return of its once splashy signing. 
Beltran, acquired in a July 28 trade with the New York Mets, strained his hand and wrist swinging against Philadelphia’s Roy Oswalt on Aug. 7. He was activated from the disabled list Tuesday and popped out in his lone pinch-hit appearance. 
Beltran was back to batting third in the lineup in the finale as San Francisco split a quick two-game set against San Diego. He singled and finished 2 for 4. 
Nothing delighted the home fans more than giving Beltran a standing ovation after his fourth-inning shot put San Francisco ahead 1-0. Giants fans are hop­ing Beltran can awaken a slump­ing offense and help the defend­ing World Series champions get back to the playoffs. 

page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 26, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
ND aims to defend Big East crown 
NFL 

Dalton, Bengals top Panthers 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI — Carolina rookie quarterback Cam Newton took a step back on his road to NFL stardom. 
Cincinnati’s Andy Dalton, another rookie, took a huge leap forward. 
Dalton, Cincinnati’s second-round draft pick from Texas Christian, led four first-half scoring drives and the Bengals held on for a 24-13 preseason victory Thursday night. 
Dalton was an efficient 11 of 17 for 130 yards and a touch­down for Cincinnati (1-2), put­ting together a 107.5 quarter­back rating, a vast improve­ment over the 30.9 figure he took into the game. He didn’t play in the second half. 
“We did a good job of mov­ing the ball,” Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said. “We threw the ball well and the running game was physical.” 
Newton, the overall No. 1 pick, went into the game with a 65.2 quarterback rating after two games. He rushed for 41 yards in the first half, including a 16-yard scramble for a touchdown. He played the first three series of the third quarter before giving way to second-year quarter­back Jimmy Clausen and fin­ished 6 for 19 for 75 yards and a 44.8 rating. 
Newton reverted to the Heisman Trophy-winning style he used while leading Auburn to last year’s national champi­onship to account for his first touchdown as a pro. 
After Chris Gamble recov­ered a fumble by Cedric Benson at the Cincinnati 46, Newton led Carolina (1-2) on a six-play scoring drive. He completed just one of four passes on the possession, but he capped it by scrambling 16 yards for the score. Cornerback Jonathan Wade hit Newton at about the 2­yard line, but Newton spun out of Wade’s grasp and dived into the end zone with 6:17 left in the first quarter. 
The Panthers gained posses­sion because Dalton and Benson miscommunicated on a handoff, producing Cincinnati’s sixth turnover of the preseason. The touchdown lifted opponents’ combined advantage over the Bengals in points off turnovers to 34-0. 
Dalton and Benson shook off the fumble to lead the Bengals on their most impressive drive of the preseason. Dalton was 3 of 4 for 27 yards and Benson carried the ball 11 times for 53 yards, including a 1-yard run around left end for a touchdown to tie it. 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Two new names have been added to the Notre Dame roster since last season, but the team’s goals remain unchanged as the Irish aim for their fifth straight Big East title. 
“I think all of us have high expectations,” junior Chrissie McGaffigan said. “We’d like to get another Big East title and then, at the end of the year, we’re always driving to be national champions.” 
Hired after former assistant Julia Scaringe resigned in July, new assistant coach Kelcy Tefft looks to improve an Irish team that finished last season ranked No. 20 in the nation. Tefft, a 2009 graduate who served as assistant coach at the University of Tulsa for the past two years, is Notre Dame’s all-time leader in wins with 265 victories — 155 of which came in doubles matches. Her resume includes claiming the 2007 National Indoors doubles championship and the 2009 Big East Player of the Year honors. 
Tefft also served as the dou­bles partner of current senior Kristy Frilling and as a team­mate of senior Shannon Mathews. 
“Both Shannon and I are very excited and happy that Kelcy is coming back to Notre Dame as our assistant coach,” Frilling said. “She has been a great teammate, and we know she will be an even better coach. I was Kelcy's doubles partner my freshman year, so who would know my game better than her?” 
Even team members whose playing time did not overlap with Tefft’s recognize the impact she had on the program and anticipate a strong rela­tionship with their new coach. 
“We can look up at the All-American posters while we practice every day and we can see her picture up there and know that she’s accomplished so much, so we’re just really excited to have her on our side,” McGaffigan said. “She’s going to be such an asset to the team.” 
The Irish have another new­comer in freshman Katherine White, whose strong serve and impressive doubles play has already caught the eyes of coaches and teammates. 
“She’s a good singles player, but she’s a really good doubles player. She’s got a big serve and plays a big game, she hits the ball hard and I think with her once she gets indoors, she’s going to be tough,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “Last year we needed a little more help in our doubles and I think that’s something that she’s going to bring to the team.” 
White is excited to be return­ing to the court after a shoulder injury forced her to sit out for most of the past year, but she has found time to bond with her new teammates. 
“She’s just a great girl on and off the court. She’s so much fun to be around. It’s only been two days but she’s already com­pletely fit in,” McGaffigan said. “She’s a great player, a great competitor, and I think she’ll add a lot to the team this year on and off the court.” 
New and returning players alike will be using the individu­alized tournaments of the fall to prepare for the more team-ori­ented spring season. 
“For the fall, our main goal is to get a lot of matches in. [The athletes] practiced a lot over the summer, but not many of them played tournaments,” Louderback said. “We want them to compete hard every match and not worry about the outcome as much.” 
The biggest tournaments of the fall include the All-American in California and the National Indoor in New York, where members of the team will have the opportunity to test themselves against some of the country’s strongest competition. 
Frilling and Mathews in par­ticular will be sure to use such opportunities to their fullest advantage during their senior year. 
“I know Shannon and I are looking forward to and [are] determined to make our last year here at Notre Dame our best,” Frilling said. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen vjacobse@nd.edu 
a litmus test for the Irish and could be crucial to NCAA tournament team selection towards the end of the season. 
“Every game with us is crucial. We will have good competition, but our 
e x p e c t a t i o n  i s  t o  w i n  a l l  
t h r e e  m a t c h e  s , ”  B r o w n  
said.  

After weeks of training, an anxious Irish will find 
out exactly where they stand. They take on Eastern Michigan Friday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
Brown 
continued from page 24 
ure it out.” 

The same can be said for Brown ’s squad as well. Though the Irish have been practicing for weeks, Brown said the best way to get a feel for her team is to actually watch them play in-game. 
“A team can learn so much more about them ­selves in match play, ” Brown said. “Especially for the freshmen, it will be important to get into the speed of the game right away.” 
Brown expects that if all goes according to plan, all four freshmen will see game action this weekend. 
“It ’s a new season, a blank slate. This will be a chance to see everyone ’s competitiveness rise to the top,” Brown said. “I fore­see everybody, even the freshmen, getting a chance to show what they can do.” 
Though the Shamrock Invitational is a preseason tournament and has no direct bearing on seeding for the Big East, out -of ­conference matches will be 

Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 21 


UND.com Irish ffth-year forward Tim Abromaitis handles the ball dur­ing Team USA practice for the World University Games. 
China 
continued from page 24 
it definitely has me ready for the season. I’m in good shape right now, and I just can’t wait for the games to be here.” 
Abromaitis averaged just 
over six points and four rebounds per game for Team USA, which finished on their way to gold. Diggins had an impressive tournament, averaging 12 points per game and a tour-nament-best five assists per game. Peters, who was the only Irish player not in the starting lineup for the women’s Team USA, led the team in bench scoring with 10 points per game. 
“I think it was an amazing experience,” Diggins said. “It’s always a blessing and 
with a tour­nament­best 7-1 record. The sharp­shooting Irish for ­ward said he had to adjust his role slightly to fit in as a part of Team USA. 
“With the team I was playing a little more of 
change over might lead to an adj usted role on the Irish squad this season. 
“With los­ing Ty [Nash} and Carleton [Scott], somebody’s going to have to step up inside,” Abromaitis said. 
“It’s always a blessing and an amazing opportunity when you have a chance to put on this uniform and be able to go represent your country.” 
Skylar Diggins junior guard 
an amazing opportuni­ty when you have a chance to put on this unif orm and be able to go represent your coun­try in a dif­ferent country in a such a huge deal like the 
a big -man 
role,” he said. “My job was more getting rebounds, set­ting screens, doing dirty work like that. But when you’re playing basketball, it’s all the same, so I just tried to fit and do what I could to help the team win.” 
He also hinted the role 
the summer 
“But when you’re playing and Peters] . my 
basketball, it’s all the 
teammates 
same, so I just tried to fit were just 
and do what I could to amazing.” Diggi ns
help the team win.” 
said win ­ning gold Tim Abromaitis also gave ffth-year forward her and 
“Obviously we have big guys with Jack [Cooley] and Mike [Broghammer] and Tom [Knight] and those guys, so we’ll see what hap­pens with my role this year, but it was good to experi­ence having to play a little differently and see if I can carry that over.” 
The women fared much better in the World University Games, outscor­ing opponents by an aver­age of 45 points per game 
World University Games. The people of Shenzhen were amazing hosts. They did a great job of setting up the facilities and everything was top of the line, and the people there were the nicest people I’ve ever met. Being able to go over there and win a gold medal, play­ing against really good teams and being able to share it with these two women [N ovosel 
her Notre 
Dame 
teammates 
extra moti­vation to improve upon last season’s magical run, which ended in a 76 -70 loss to Texas A&M in the NCAA National Championship game. 
“We were the bride in this tournament, and we were the bride’s maid last year, so hopefully we can come back and do something great,” she said. 
Contact Eric Prister eprister@nd.edu 


page 22 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 26, 2011 

Gray 
continued from page 24 
Kelly said. “[Gray and Wood] have done everything because they know they need [the freshmen]. So they’ve been really good in teaching those two young guys in getting them up to speed.” 
The role is a new one for Gray, who has battled recur­ring issues with fumbling and pass protection during his career. Despite being ranked the fourth-best running back in the country in the Class of 2008 by Rivals.com, Gray has garnered only 309 rushing yards and no touchdowns in his three seasons. 
But the second year in Kelly’s system has opened his eyes, and he said he feels much more confident heading into a 2011 season that is just eight days away. 
“It’s a huge turnaround,” Gray said. “What [being in year two] does is it gives me the ability to see a lot of things I wouldn’t see normal­ly. In year one I would get the play and all these different things would go through my head. Right away now when I get the play it’s better … There were some holes in the process, but now it’s there improve coaching the offen­and it’s starting to show up.” sive line,” offensive line coach 
According to offensive coor-and running game coordina­dinator Charley Molnar, Gray tor Ed Warriner said. “When has not only seized the No. 2 those backs hit those holes running back position, but he and they make extra yardage has also made a bid for the — they can make you ride a starting posi -lot on the tion since the offen sive end of last sea-line. 
“Jonas is running 
son. “Jonas is 
aggressively, has more
“I think he running did a good job, confidence and is one of aggressive-I really do, ” ly, has more 
the more improved guys
Molnar said. “I confidence 
in my opinion on offense, 
think he pres-and is one sured Cierre and it will be good for us of the more th rough out improved 
overall.” 
summer camp guys in my and made opinion on 
Ed Warriner 
Cierre come to off ense, work every day. offensive line coach and it will 
Jonas got a fair chance to com­pete for the job, and I think [Kelly] feels right now and we feel as an offensive staff that right now Cierre is ahead of Jonas, but the first series or second series of the game, I wouldn’t be surprised to see Jonas Gray in there.” 
Ideally, Gray can serve as a change-of-pace back for the Irish. Whereas Wood is more of an outside runner who uti­lizes speed, Notre Dame hopes Gray can be effective between the tackles. 
“It’s fun watching him be good for 
us overall.” 
The trust Gray has put in the coaching staff has result­ed in his improved perform­ance, Warriner said. 
“I believe in Coach Kelly’s ability to put me in the right position to win and our team in the right positions to win,” Gray said. “So I trust when he says something to me it puts a lot of — I wouldn’t call it pressure — but a lot of posi­tive energy in me.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Hamilton 
continued from page 24 
his players compete this sea­son. 
“We’ll start to see what the NCAA tournaments and having captured six of the last nine MIAA championships, Saint Mary’s has set a high standard for itself in recent years. 
“We hope to keep our status as the best team in the MIAA conference and to improve our 
girls worked on over the summer and get on track for getting the competitive juices flowing . that is real­ly what we are working on now,” he said. 
As they pre­pare to begin their season, the Belles 
“We hope to keep our status as the best team in the MIAA conference and to improve our ranking in Division III.” 
Christine Brown senior golfer 
ranking in Division III,” Brown said. “We are always looking for­ward to Nationals in the spring, and we would like to have a good ranking so that is possible.” 
The Belles begin their sea­son Saturday at 2 p.m. at the 
remain focused on pushing the program even higher in the national standings. After fin­ishing fourth in consecutive 
Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Joseph Monardo jmonardo@nd.edu 


Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said last season’s victory at Chapel Hill still drives the Tar Heels. 
“There is no doubt that [the Tarheels] are thinking about revenge, ” Waldrum said. “There is so much pride and tradition in that program that you just can’t help but expect them to have the game marked on their calendar from the moment we beat them.” 
The trip to Carolina kicks off a stretch of demanding road challenges, which includes matchups against No. 21 Duke, No. 2 Stanford and No. 16 Santa Clara, as Notre Dame attempts to defend its national champi­onship against the toughest of competition. 
“We play these big games early on to find out how good we really are, ” Waldrum said. “It would be easy to load the schedule with unranked teams and go into league play undefeated, but that wouldn’t be a true measure of where we are at and how we can improve.” 
The Irish are coming off an impressive set of exhibitions during which they scored 12 goals in two games, followed by a dominant 2-0 win over Wisconsin Aug. 19 to open the regular season. Senior All -American forward and co -captain Melissa Henderson — who collected a goal and an assist in last year’s meeting with North Carolina — recorded a goal and an assist against the Badgers (0-1-0), who were outshot 17-8. 
Waldrum believes his team can still improve in a few crucial areas as it pursues its full potential. 
“We let some opportunities slip away in the final third and had some finishing issues [against Wisconsin],” Waldrum said. “We also have got to continue to mini­mize chances against us because there was a stretch where we relaxed a little too much. We can’t afford to do this against the North Carolinas and Stanfords.” 
North Carolina, the pre ­season favorite to win the ACC, boasts an experienced squad that returns 10 play­ers from last year’s team, including preseason All ­American sophomore Crystal Dunn. Dunn scored the lone goal against the Irish last season and has been fea ­tured everywhere on the field from central defender to striker. 
“She is definitely one of those that you keep an eye on because she is just such a fantastic player,” Waldrum said. “But we still plan on keeping our game mentality and we will be ready. It’ll be a tight one, but we are con­fident in what we are capa­ble of doing.” 
Notre Dame takes on North Carolina tonight at 7 p.m. and Duke Sunday at 1 p.m. to close out the Carolina Classic. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum agastel1@nd.edu 

Friday, August 26, 2011 The Observer . TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
WILL SHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, August 26, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com | page 24 
FOOTBALL 

A Shade of Gray 
Senior back looks for breakout final year 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
In his first three seasons with the program, senior Irish running back Jonas Gray did not see much action, 
only cracked the starting lineup once, and has been buried on the depth chart while Notre Dame relied on other running backs to pro­duce. 
But this year is different. 
With Gray and junior Cierre Wood the only returning scholarship running backs, the coaching staff has needed the senior from Pontiac, Mich., to step it up in his final campaign with the Irish and show the ropes to two freshman running backs, George Atkinson and Cam McDaniel. 
“Jonas has been really good, ” Irish coach Brian 
TOM YOUNG/The Observer 

Irish senior running back Jonas Gray looks up the field during Notre Dame’s 37-14 loss see GRAY/page 22 to Stanford on Sept. 25. Gray has totaled 309 career rushing yards with the Irish. 

VOLLEYBALL 
Irish open preseason at home 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish open their season on Friday against Eastern Michigan, they will be facing a blank slate. Lacking any game tape, Notre Dame will kick off the new season with a matchup against the Eagles Friday, followed by Idaho Saturday and Butler Sunday in the Shamrock Invitational — Notre Dame’s round-robin presea­son tournament. 
“We know a little bit about what [the Eagles] did last year, ” Irish coach Debbie Brown said, “but it will take at least a set to really get a feel for our 
opponents, who their key hitters are, et cetera. Both teams will be trying to fig-
see BROWN/page 20 
SMC GOLF 

Belles set to begin season following last year’s strong finish 
semester, Saint Mary’s begins of his team. year, the members of this sea-the Warren Golf Course.
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

the season with only 5 golfers. “We’ve got some players that son’s team have been preparing “Of course with it being our
Sports Writer 

“We do not have as many play-have been in the program a cou-especially hard for the opening first tournament of the season, ers as we have had in past ple of years now,” Hamilton match. we have to get into the groove of Coming off of a fourth place years, but this gives our entire said. “The torch has been “We all have been practicing a playing competitively,” Brown finish in last year’s NCAA team the opportunity to step up passed to them, so it’s time for lot lately,” Brown said. “We said. “This first match is an Division III tournament, the and play well,” senior Christine them to step up and shine.” want to be in the best mental opportunity for us all to become Belles will tee off for the first Brown said. Matuszak is the only returning and physical shape coming into comfortable with competition time in 2011-2012 season Brown and Natalie Matuszak golfer to have played for the this season.” and to prepare for the O’Brien Saturday against Bethel. comprise the senior class of the Belles in last year’s NCAA tour-The opening matchup against Invitational, where we go up 
Hoping to begin the fall por-team. Joining them are juniors nament, with the other four Bethel provides Saint Mary’s against the best teams in the tion of their schedule strongly, Cara Kielty and Jessica Kinnick competitors from last year’s with an opportunity to get an nation.” the Belles will have to do so fea-and freshman Janice Heffernan. tournament either graduated or early taste of collegiate competi-The match also gives Hamilton turing a roster that is severely Despite the lack of depth in his abroad for the semester. tion as it prepares for the his first real opportunity to see undermanned. With several roster, Belles’ coach Mark Confident that they can step in O’Brien Invitational, which will players studying abroad for the Hamilton likes the composition and avoid a drop-off from last be held on September 11 – 12 at see HAMILTON/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
ND faces tough start on road 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Beginning one of college soccer ’s toughest road schedules, No. 1 Notre Dame will head to the Carolina Classic at Chapel Hill to take on No. 3 North Carolina with the sting of defeat still fresh in the Tar Heels’ minds. 
Last year, the Irish (1-0-0) destroyed perennial power North Carolina ’s (1 -0-0) hopes of adding a NCAA ­leading twenty-first national championship trophy to its collection with a 4-1 state­ment win — the Tarheels’ worst loss in 30 seasons — in the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
see WALDRUM/page 22 

ND BASKETBALL 
Quartet represents USAat games in China 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Just weeks before work­outs are set to begin for the Irish, four players earned a unique opportunity to rep­resent the United States at the World University Games in Shenzhen, China. 
Fifth -year forward Tim Abromaitis represented the Irish men, while junior guard Skylar Diggins, sen­ior guard Natalie Novosel and fifth -year forward Devereaux Peters repre ­sented the women. 
The men ’s team was knocked out of medal con­tention in the quarterfinals with a loss to Lithuania and failed to reach the podium, but Abromaitis said just being a part of the team helped boost his confidence 
g o i n g  i n t o  t h e  2 0 1 1  -1 2  
campaign.  
“Unfortunately  we  didn’t  

win the gold medal like we wanted to, but it was a great team and a fun expe­rience,” he said. “It was great to experience China and see the culture a little bit. It helps [my confidence] a lot, just knowing that you can play with the best play­ers out there and being able to beat a lot of good teams out there too. I think 
see CHINA/page 21 









