
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Trespasser enters residence 
Observer Staff Report 
A female student told police a college-aged male allegedly awakened her in her room at approximately 6:30 a.m. Sun­day morning, according to Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
The student said the male en­tered her room, woke her and spoke to her. She said she told him to leave the room. 
The man left the room with­out incident, police said. The student reported it to police at about 3 p.m. Sunday. 
NDSP alerted students of the incident via email Sunday eve­ning. 
“NDSP recommends that residence room doors and win­dows should be locked when you sleep or when you are away,” the email stated. “Do not let people not known to you into residence halls.” 
The email alert also advised students to contact NDSP if they witness suspicious activity or behavior. More information about crime prevention can be found on the NDSP website. 


Irish fall in final seconds 
Michigan wins during game’s last quarter, fans stunned 


By: DAN BROMBACH breaking loss to rival Michi-Like many other students, News Writer gan. freshman Max Veregge, a A night that began full of member of the Notre Dame 
Sadness, anger and disbe-promise for Notre Dame end-marching band, said he expe­lief were three overwhelming ed in stunning defeat, as the rienced a rollercoaster of emo-emotions of Notre Dame fans Irish lost 31-35 and Michigan tions during the game. as they exited the “Big House” scored 28 points in the fourth Saturday following a heart-quarter. see GAME/page 4 
Anti-hunger campaign continues 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
With copious amounts of food in the dining halls and around campus, it’s easy to forget that just a few miles away on the west side of South Bend there is an identified food desert. 
Notre Dame’s eND Hunger Campaign, initiated by former student body president Cath­erine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell last year, seeks to engage Notre Dame students and faculty in the challenge of food scarcity in South Bend. 
“I think it’s really important because a lot of times we focus on efforts that extend outside of South Bend, changing the world,” junior Catherine Flat­ley, subcommittee coordinator of the West Side Food Security Council, said. “If you look at sta­tistics, the hunger issues in In­diana, and South Bend in par­ticular, are astronomical.” 
Potential actions for the cam­paign include initiating a food cooperative, advocating for a 
see HUNGER/page 4 

Students meet with artists at reception 
By CEALY GLOVER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students had the opportunity Friday to meet the artists behind the work cur­rently hanging in the Moreau Art Galleries. 
The artists reception, which was held from 5 to 7 p.m. Friday evening, gave students and the public the chance to view three exhibitions as well as meet the artists who created them. 
The reception featured the artwork of a Saint Mary’s pro­fessor and student, as well as two solo exhibits. 
Senior Kerri Doherty said she enjoyed looking at the different exhibits. 
“The art reception was so in­teresting,” Doherty said. “The artwork was amazing and the atmosphere was energetic. It was great to see the work of a Saint Mary’s student as well as outside artists.” 
Doherty said she felt a con­nection to the work displayed. 
“Each artist’s exhibit was unique in that it explored the relationship between art and life,” Doherty said. “I was really able to connect to the art.” 
The student exhibit is the result of Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR), which is a grant given to a faculty member and student to conduct research for eight weeks during the summer and create a final project. 
The student, usually a rising senior, pursues her research as a junior colleague with the fac­ulty partner. 
Krista Hoefle, associate pro­fessor of art, and senior Katie Fisher created this year’s SIS­TAR installation, “Unknown Atomic.” Displayed in the Sister Rosaire Gallery, the silk screen project explores the relation­ship between replication and repetition, attraction and re 
see ART/page 4 
Fifth-graders explore engineering 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students teamed up with fifth-graders from the South Bend school district this weekend to play with robotic pets, conduct experiments with LEGO racecars and spark interest in engineering. 
Over 300 fifth-graders at­tended the annual event, “I2D2: Imagination, Innova­tion, Discovery and Design at Notre Dame,” which took place for the second time at the Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center on Friday. 
This “technology discovery day” began because of fresh­men engineering students’ ro­botic pet project, said Victoria Goodrich, director of the first-year engineering program. 
“We started a new project last year where they create robotic pets,” she said. “We wanted to have customer in­put, so we have fifth-graders come up and act as their cus­tomers.” 
The freshmen engineering students led the children in a 

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 
Fifth-graders from the South Bend school district explored engineering with Lego racecars at Notre Dame on Friday. 
discussion on “Irish Pets.” The ally think about what’s pos­engineers prompted them with sible and what’s not,” she said. “It would be cool if the Irish “They have a bigger imagina-Pet could…” tion, which let’s us be more in-
Freshman Eleanor Mershon novative and creative.” said the fifth-graders were the Graduate students in the En perfect mock customers. 
“Fifth-graders don’t re-see DISCOVER/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Lose the Shoes helps African soccer program page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Fall TV preview page 9 u Women’s soccer page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Monday, September 12, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT PET DO YOU WANT IN YOUR DORM AND WHAT WOULD YOU NAME IT? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one 
academic year; $75 for one semester.  
The Observer is published at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address corrections to:  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779  The Observer  
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame  P.O. Box 779  
and additional mailing offices  024 South Dining hall  

Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




Maria Surat  Johnny Whichard  Alexa Shaw  Joe Wirth  James Antoniotti  
senior  sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  
Pasquerilla East  Sorin  Farley  Sorin  Sorin  
“I’d say a  “A polar bear  “A fish  “A dog named  “A dog named  
dalmatian-lab  named Spider  named Nemo.  Jimmer.”  Joe Wirth. Oh  
mix named  Pig.”  He’d be low  wait, that’s my  
Siena; about  maintenance.”  roommate.”  
three years old,  
give or take.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Restaurant owner sues der the “Animal Carcass Re-her mayor’s office. over phonebook error moval” section. Lacey said Janice Shanks carried two 
HELENA, Mont. — A Mon-he first found out about it bags of refuse into Ports­tana restaurant listed in the when the calls started com-mouth Mayor David Malone’s phone book under “Animal ing into the restaurants. office on Friday morning. Carcass Removal” became “It was a series of phone Shanks says she had more the butt of a Jay Leno joke calls for several weeks where garbage than normal be-earlier this year, but it’s no it was either people in ear-cause of a holiday family laughing matter to the own-nest asking us to come and get-together, and the lack of er now suing the publishing remove carcasses or prank collection put her in “a real company over the business calls,” Lacey said. pickle.” he’s lost. The listing was reprinted Malone accepted the trash 
Hunter Lacey says in his in other printed and online and says he will take it to the lawsuit that business at his telephone directories last city’s waste disposal depart-Bar 3 Bar-B-Q restaurants year and this year. ment. in Bozeman and nearby Bel-Malone says certain routes grade has dropped off since Angry Ohio woman brings were skipped so the city the Dex Media Inc. listing garbage to mayor’s office could avoid paying overtime and that his brand and repu-PORTSMOUTH, Ohio — An for the holiday work. He says tation have gone down the Ohio woman frustrated by there was confusion over tubes. the mix-up of the trash pick-how notice was sent out. 
The listing first appeared up schedule after the Labor in 2009 in the yellow pages Day holiday decided to haul Information compiled of Dex’s telephone book un-her own garbage — right into from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
A lecture, “Multiscale Fi­nite Element Simulations and Optimization for Surgi­cal Repair in Single Ventri­cle Heart Patients” will take place today from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center. The Depart­ment of Applied and Com­putational Mathematics and Statistics is sponsoring the lecture. 
A lecture “Temples and Towns: The Form, Elements and Principles of Planned Towns” will be held in 104 Bond Hall. The lecture, hosted by the School of Ar­chitecture, will take place from 4:30 to 6 p.m. today. 
A lecture, “Building Jus­tice in the World: Confront­ing Evil” will take place tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in Geddes Hall. The lecture is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Sr. Helen Prejean will speak about her experiences of confront­ing evil with justice based in gospel values. 
The Hesburgh Library will host a RefWorks work­shop from 1:30 to 3 p.m. to­morrow. The free workshop will be held in Room G001, Information Technology Center (ITC). 
The Hesburgh Center for International studies will host a current events panel tomorrow from 4 to 5:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Cen­ter Auditorium. The panel will discuss the situation in Libya after the Qaddafi re­gime. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Matthew Nicole Toczauer DeFranks Christian Myers Kelsey Manning Graphics Walker Carey Dan Azic Photo Scene Pat Coveney Mary Claire Viewpoint O’Donnell Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 85 LOW 79 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 







HIGH 74 LOW 49 
HIGH 65 LOW 40 
HIGH 61 LOW 41 
HIGH 63 LOW 43 
Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

‘Diabetes Sidekick’ to support students 
Tournament aids Africa 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Starting this semester, stu­dents with diabetes will have a resource for support and advice on how to adjust to living on a college campus. 
Junior Joe Williams, who had diabetes, began the “Diabetes Sidekick” program to help stu­dents with the disease transi­tion to living in a new environ­ment. 
“When you’re at home, you have your parents to remind you to take your insulin,” Williams said. “When you’re in the din­ing hall, you’re going to have a little apprehension about giving yourself a shot.” 
Williams got the idea after giving a presentation about the transition from high school to college, and managing diabetes as a college student. 
“There was a pretty obvious need for a better understanding of management when you go to college,” he said. 
Williams said he wanted to figure out a way to help students in this transitional period. 
“I thought I could start a group that would help people, especially incoming freshman, better understand how to man­age their blood sugar,” he said. 
During the summer, Williams worked more on this idea and spoke with Health Services to figure out how to bring the club to fruition. 
Williams said the program will help new students transi­tion from living with diabetes at home,  to college, where the support system is far away. 
Williams said community and support are two vital aspects of the group. 
“This is a place where people can come and say, ‘I need help with this,’” he said. “And it’s a place where people can under­stand what’s going on.” 
For Williams, the hardest part of transitioning to college was prioritizing his diabetes. 
“You’re on your own schedule, it’s hard to prioritize,” he said. “When you’re trying to take on all these other things, it’s diffi­cult to take time to check your sugars.” 
He also said learning what to eat in the dining hall can be dif­ficult for diabetic students. 
“The advice I usually give to new students is to take your in­sulin before you get to the din­ing hall and eat,” he said. “It’s just easier.” 
He said the support system will likely be modeled off of the “big sister, little sister” concept used in many female dorms. 
Williams said there will be formal meetings for the first few weeks. After that, partners will meet on their own time. 
“We will sponsor several guest speakers throughout the academic year and will par­ticipate in local fundraising events,” he said. 
The program’s first event will be a diabetes walk Sept. 18 to raise money for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. 
The first club meeting will take place Monday Sept. 19 at St. Liam Hall Room 300. Inter­ested students can contact Wil­liams at jwilli31@nd.edu. 
Contact anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 
By CLAIRE BRADY 
News Writer 
“Lose the Shoes,” a three vs. three barefoot soccer tourna­ment benefitting a soccer pro­gram in Africa, opens Monday on South Quad, and its orga­nizers say it will be bigger than ever. 
Senior Kyle Smith, a tourna­ment coordinator, said this is the first time the tournament will last three days in its three-year history at Notre Dame. 
“We’re trying to expand,” he said. “Our goal for the future its to make ‘Lose the Shoes’ something on the level of Book­store Basketball.” 
Unlike Bookstore Basketball, however, “Lose the Shoes” is not a tournament unique to Notre Dame. 
Held on numerous college campuses across the country, “Lose the Shoes” raises money for Grassroot Soccer, an orga­nization founded in 2002 by pe­diatrician Tommy Clark, son of Notre Dame men’s soccer coach Bobby Clark. 
“We’re not the first to do it, but we’re trying to make it big due to the ND connection,” Smith said. 
Grassroot Soccer “uses the power of soccer to educate, in­spire and mobilize communi­ties to stop the spread of HIV,” according to its website. The program operates flagship sites in South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. 
Smith said he hopes the three-day tournament will help raise greater awareness for the organization. 
While the organizers did not have final numbers for regis­tration available Sunday, they expect to raise more money than past years due to success­ful advertising and promotion. 
“The men’s soccer team has been helping to promote ‘Lose the Shoes’ a lot at their games,” Smith said. “We held a pre­view three vs. three game dur­ing halftime at the first home game.” 
Registration for “Lose the Shoes” closed Sunday, but Smith encouraged all students to support the cause whether or not they are participating in the tournament. 
“You can come out, watch the games and donate money at the tournament or online,” he said. “You don’t need to play in order to help out.” 
Contact Claire Brady at Cbrady5@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Monday, September 12, 2011 

some points during the game staff, said leaving the stadium 
Game 
when it just went dead.” was difficult. 
He said he was also struck “I felt like my soul had just continued from page 1 by the intensity of the Michigan been ripped out,” Noonan said. alumni present at the game. “We definitely got sworn at a 
“Losing was crazy because I “The alumni were as loud, lot.  It wasn’t just that the Mich­went from being extremely de-if not louder, than the student igan fans were sore winners, it pressed, to being extremely ex-section,” O’Brien said. “They was that many were borderline cited and then back to being ex-knew the student chants and hostile toward us.” tremely depressed in about 30 did them throughout the game. Even though his first Notre seconds,” he said. “The range That’s something that I would Dame games as a student end-of emotions was intense.” really like to see here at Notre ed in defeat, Veregge said he’s 
Students said the atmosphere Dame.” still optimistic about the foot-at Michigan Stadium, known as With roughly 30 seconds left ball season. the “Big House,” was hyped up in the fourth quarter, the Irish “This past game was so vola­and chaotic. scored a 31-28 lead, causing tile that it was really anybody’s 
Dan O’Brien, a sophomore an ecstatic response from the game.  As such, I’m still opti­who was also at the game, said Notre Dame student section. mistic about the season,” he it was unlike anything he had But Michigan promptly an-said. “Emotionally this was a seen before. swered, driving down the field heartbreaking loss, but it made 
“The atmosphere was abso-and scoring on quarterback me feel better that our team lutely electric,” O’Brien said. Denard Robinson’s touchdown played harder and better than “It was the loudest and crazi-pass as the stadium exploded we did against USF.” est sporting event I’ve been to. in cheering. Still, combined with the Irish Even during  dull points the Irish fans’ devastation was loss to South Florida on Sept. 3, crowd was absolutely insane.” palpable, students said. other students said it’s difficult 
O’Brien said the Notre Dame In addition to witnessing not to feel angry. student section was drowned their team lose, students who As sophomore Nick Rischard out at points by the masses of made the trip to Ann Arbor had said, “We beat ourselves again. 
“We occupied three big stu-Michigan fans. to endure the aftermath in an Plain and simple.” 
“Our student section was unfriendly environment. At the artists reception, Beth 
Art 
dio spaces,” she said. 
loud but it wasn’t well-orga-Sophomore Kevin Noonan, a Contact Dan Brombach continued from page 1 Reitmeyer from the Zg Gallery 
nized,” he said. “There were member of The Observer Scene at dbrombac@nd.edu in Chicago also displayed her pulsion and good versus evil. new installation project called “The SISTAR grant is a great “Room for Inspiration.” opportunity for both students Her exhibit focused on colors 
then draw conclusions,” ES-“Studies say students start and faculty,” Hoefle said. “It and patterns specific to certain 
Discover 
TEEM student Jordan Bryant to think about their career really gives the student, in her spaces. 
said. paths in middle school,” she junior year, an experience sim-Reitmeyer said she intends to 
continued from page 1 The children were also en-said. “The more we can expose ilar to that of a graduate stu-diminish the distance between 
couraged to build their own these students to science and dent.  They really do their own the artwork and the viewer. 
gineering, Science and Tech-LEGO towers. engineering the better.” thing and work on their own Jim Hopfensperger, profes­
nology Entrepreneurship Ex-Freshman Samuel Leung Ted Keeler, a fifth-grade project.” sor of art at Western Michigan 
cellence Masters (ESTEEM) said the tower building project teacher at Jefferson Interme-Fisher said she and Hoefle University, created the final 
program led the fifth-graders was meant to show the fifth-diate, said the discovery day “really had to start from exhibition. Titled “New Sculp­
in a science experiment. graders what they can achieve. exposed the children to more scratch” on their project. tural Furniture,” it features 
The children built LEGO “I think it allows them to than science and engineering. “We set up a two women print sculptural work that explores 
racecars and sent them down see how much fun just build-“A lot of these kids don’t get making and sculpture studio. new ways of using handmade 
a ramp, measuring how far ing anything can be,” he said. exposed to a university, and We didn’t rely on anyone but objects. 
they could go. They then added “It lets them see the variety of they don’t see the goal they’re ourselves,” she said. “Any re-The art exhibition is open to 
weight at different intervals to things you can do with science shooting for,” Keeler said. source we had came from us.” the public through Sept. 16. 
test whether the heavier or — not just what they usually “Our school is close to 75 per-Hoefle said they needed a 
lighter car could go farther. see in the classroom.” cent below the poverty line, so huge amount of space to com-Contact Cealy Glover 
“It gives them a way to get After the program, Goodrich it’s exposure to see where they plete the project. at cglove01@saintmarys.edu 
into experiments because said they sent the students can go with their education.” they have to predict what they home with materials so they think is going to happen, then can continue to experiment Contact Mel Flanagan they build a model, test it and beyond the classroom. at mflanag3@nd.edu 
“We’re really going to focus 
Hunger 
our efforts on expanding what they’re doing and trying to ad-continued from page 1 vertise for them so they can 
stay in business and provide grocery store and coordinat-this needed resource,” she said. ing local farmers with corner Flatley said the market has stores to market fresh produce, been operating for awhile, but according to the student gov-the campaign strives to make it ernment website. sustainable for the long-term. 
Senior Hallie Brewster, who Brewster said educating stu­is the student liaison to the dents on what the community’s West Side Food Security Coun-needs are, and how students cil, said providing more healthy can help meet those needs, is and affordable options in the another major goal. West Side is the campaign’s Student service in the com-main goal. She said food options munity helps establish trust include mostly fast food or just and is also enormously benefi­small corner stores in the area. cial to students, Brewster said. 
“In the long run, many years “I think it would be really down the road, we’d love to have beneficial for the students as [the campaign] expand to many well, not only just getting to areas of St. Joseph’s County,” know new people [and] getting she said. to know the community they’re 
Brewster said student repre-living in, [but] personally just sentatives meet monthly with a self fulfillment,” she said. coalition of about 20 commu-Brewster said students can nity leaders who are fighting help to end hunger in the area, hunger locally to discuss South even in small ways. Bend’s food infrastructure. “We’re trying to organize a 
Brewster and Flatley attend few weekly groups to go and these monthly meetings along help at some of the markets with sophomore Greg Yungpun, downtown,” she said. “That’s student director of the eND something that somebody could Hunger student council. do for even an hour once a 
Flatley said the eND Hunger week.” campaign has two major long-Flatley said student govern-term goals. ment listens to the goals articu­
“To kind of change the way lated by the community, work-in which Notre Dame interacts ing together in conjunction with the South Bend Commu-with the community instead of nity, to really build a relation-pushing only their own initia­ship and encourage the efforts tives. of all the community members,” “We have this opportunity she said. “Also, to promote the as students to work directly long-term [food] security on the with the people we technically West Side.” should be in community with, 
Brewster said a main objec-and help them achieve their tive for the fall semester is to goals,” Flatley said. assist the Urban Garden Mar­ket, a farmer’s market located Contact Sara Felsenstein at in the West Side. sfelsens@nd.edu 


Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Nation unites in memory of 9/11 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Determined never to forget but perhaps ready to move on, the nation gently handed Sept. 11 over to history Sunday and etched its memory on a new genera­tion. A stark memorial took its place where twin towers once stood, and the names of the lost resounded from children too young to remember terror from a decade ago. 
In New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, across the Unit­ed States and the world, people carried out rituals now as fa­miliar as they are heartbreak­ing: American flags unfurled at the new World Trade Center tower and the Eiffel Tower, and tears shed at the base of the Pentagon and a base in Iraq. 
President Barack Obama quoted the Bible and spoke of finding strength in fear. George 
W. Bush, still new to the presi­dency that day, invoked the na­tional sacrifice of the Civil War. Vice President Joe Biden said hope must grow from tragedy. 
Jessica Rhodes talked about her niece, Kathryn L. LaBorie, the lead flight attendant on the plane that hit the south tower. She remembered a radiant smile and infinite compassion, and suggested now, 10 years on, it is time to turn a corner. 
“Although she may not ever be found, she will never ever be lost to her family and her friends,” Rhodes said after she read a segment of the list of the dead at ground zero. “Today we honor her by letting go of the sadness over losing her and em­bracing the joy of knowing her.” 
It was the 10th time the na­tion has paused to remember a defining day. In doing so, it closed a decade that produced two wars, deep changes in na­tional security, shifts in every­day life — and, months before it ended, the death at American hands of the elusive terrorist who masterminded the attack. 
The anniversary took place under heightened security. In New York and Washington es­pecially, authorities were on alert. Ahead of the anniversary, the federal government warned those cities of a tip about a possible car-bomb plot. Police searched trucks in New York, and streets near the trade cen­ter were blocked. To walk with­in blocks of the site, people had to go through checkpoints. 
The names of the fallen — 2,983 of them, all the victims from the attack sites and six people who died when terrorists set off a truck bomb under the towers in 1993 — echoed across a place utterly transformed. 
In the footprints of the tow­ers was a stately memorial, two weeping waterfalls, unveiled for the first time and open only to the relatives of the victims. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, September 12, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Remember 9/11 
On Sep. 11, 2001, while my par­ents sat paralyzed before the televi­sion, I curled up on the floor with my journal, trying to grapple with it all myself. 
I felt compelled to write down whatever I could 
— somehow I knew this was an entry I’d look back on. 
“Our United States is changed forever, that’s what the news re­porters say,” I jot­ted down quickly in pencil. “Our whole country is shut down. Can you believe it? New York looks like a war site.” 
Ten years after the towers fell, I can’t say I have a much better under­standing of 9/11 than when I was an 11-year-old. 
But slowing down daily life to cher­ish relationships is one of many les­sons I’ll take away. 
My hometown of Ridgewood, N.J. is about 20 miles northwest of Midtown Manhattan. With many residents commuting to the Financial District for work, Ridgewood was deeply af­fected by the Sept. 11 attacks. 
We were just removed enough to be out of the chaos, but close enough to see the smoke. 
As I think back to those days, weeks, even months after the attacks, what strikes me is how Ridgewood 
— a typical fast-paced New York City suburb — slowed down for just a little while. 
People lingered outside of church for longer than usual. Candlelight vigils in the town square took priority over homework and sports practices. Downtime in front of the television turned into time for community gath­erings. Residents pulled together rota­tions of lasagna dinners for families who had lost a loved one. 
With the skyline broken and 12 community members lost, people found time for what was important. 
Then 9/11 passed, and the dust settled. Trains kept running to and from Penn Station. 
Morning, noon and night, people got on and off those trains. 
And life went on. 
The further away 9/11 gets, the more it seems like a piece of history than a lived experience. 
But it’s important we let that day continue to inform our choices and actions. 
With the immediacy of communica­tion and the 24-hour news cycle, our generation is known to move through life at an incredibly fast speed. 
We talk fast, type fast, walk fast. I’ll be the first to admit I’m guilty of that mentality. 
Sometimes it feels like the only way to reach our goals is to go, head first, alone. 
But let 9/11 remind us there is al­ways strength in numbers. 
Let 9/11 remind us we don’t need pain to come together. 
Let 9/11 be a reason to spend more time with important people in our lives, even if that sometimes means being a few minutes late. 
There will always be another train. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at      sfelsens@nd.edu 

Eurocentrism: it affects you, too 
“In fourteen hundred and ninety-two, Columbus sailed the ocean blue. In fourteen hundred and ninety-three, Columbus stole all that he could see.” In fourteen hundred and ninety-four, Columbus oppressed Natives all the more. In fourteen hundred and nine-Hien Luu ty-five, Columbus brutally enslaved Asiatic Gaze these “stupid,” “cruel” and “war­like” peoples as another chapter of his blood-thirsty quest, not for explora­tion and trade, but for conquest and exploitation. In short, Columbus was a savage — a savage whose holiday we celebrate and whom we hold as the embodiment of bravery, heroism and discovery. 
This is just one result of eurocen­trism, a mentality that most, if not all, Americans buy into. “This doesn’t di­rectly affect my life; I am therefore not invested,” you might be thinking. Don’t stop reading just yet. This, too, is part of your story. In fact, it pervades your entire story. Ethnocentrism, in general, is the belief in the superiority of one’s ethnic group. Eurocentrism, more spe­cifically, is the belief in the superiority of Europe and its overseas extensions, often manifested in the tendency to interpret histories and cultures of non-European societies from a European or Western perspective. 
How harmful could this actually be? After all, isn’t our way the best way? Higher education arguably allows for more diversity in thinking, yet how much does this excuse eurocentrism if the damage has already been done in early education, where students are fed history books with incomplete narra­tive? The most insidious aspect of its nature is actually the way in which we all subconsciously absorb the eurocen­tric mentality over time, to the point where it seems unnatural to think otherwise. 
Christopher Columbus is a case of “heroification,” as author James W. Loewen calls it, where both trivial and important details are omitted in order to paint a picture perfect character 
— a “hero.” The flaws and outrageous transgressions of such “heroes” are excused at best and completely ex­cluded at worst. Here, we see editing at its finest. Did your teachers tell you, also, that Woodrow Wilson was a racist and compulsive interventionist? We did not learn facts such as these. We learned only what comfortably fit our mold of American exceptionalism. 
Not only are details left out in the ac­counts that make up our history, we also present only insular, one-sided accounts that do not incorporate the stories of other parties. When these other non-European perspectives are accounted for, they are portrayed as incompetent, backward, wicked or “developing” — in effect, still catching up to us. All of civil­ity and modernity, therefore, must have started with the Europeans. As Loewen puts it, “Feel-good history for affluent white males inevitably amounts to feel-bad history for everyone else.” 
What are the consequences of this? Eurocentrism, first of all, fuels the “us versus them” mentality. In undermining or even ignoring the contributions of the rest of the world, “we” send the message that “they” are not quite as human, not quite as legitimate or capable. Even if there is no overt admittance, there is still an inescapable, subconscious frame of mind that non-European societies have values contrary to American ideals of freedom and individualism, that they practice less legitimate faiths, lack the capacity to be innovative and forward-thinking and have to be ‘saved’ by us. 
We then see development of these societies as a Western undertaking and where such development according to Western standards of success and happiness is a definite step in the right direction. As a consequence, widespread integration — systematically imposed or unwittingly instilled — of Western stan­dards and values results in the belief that such must be universal standards and values. 
The sad part is, even non-European societies hold it to be so. The field of plastic surgery is enjoying a boom as people of all ages in Asian societies seek eyelid surgery to widen the eyes, nose reshaping to elevate the nose and facial contouring to slenderize a typically rounder face. Why? They will point out to you the archetypes of beauty — mod­els found in Western media. And in this increasingly competitive world, appear­ance is the biggest factor in the equation of success. This is one of the most ob­servable instances of the pervasive pres­ence of Western ideals as the universal but is not even close to being the limit of the consequences of eurocentrism. 
Such beliefs and actions may not be purposeful and non-European societies are not blatantly admitting inferiority, yet, there is a message to be read and of which to take heed. Eurocentrism has resulted in both explicit and subliminal racial self-hatred, where non-Western practices, beliefs and cultures may ei­ther just not be enough or undesired. 
When an incomplete story is presented 
— where we read only of the brilliant successes and discoveries of the Western world and, at the other end of the spec­trum, of the plights of the “suffering” or the ills of the “bad guys” — it is all too easy for non-Western societies to be de­monized and de-legitimized. Similarly, and especially for students, it is difficult to be motivated, inspired or empowered when one is among the “other.” 
For a country that enjoys equating itself with a “melting pot,” we are not performing very well in the “melting” department. Regardless of how diverse the population is, there is nothing to speak of if there is no integration and embracing of diverse peoples and their cultures. 
Eurocentrism is accomplishing the very opposite. Instead of encouraging unity, we are encouraging uniformity through establishing the eurocentric way as the way. “Unity without unifor­mity,” as professor George Lipsitz of UC Santa Barbara puts it, is a unity “forged tactically by appreciating differences yet recognizing similarities.” 
Comprehensive exposure, a wholly inclusive education — one that accounts for the good and the bad, the successes and the flaws and the perspectives of all those involved — is what we need. We can begin to be rid of a Western complacency that stands in the way of self-reflection and critique and at the same time empower those who feel inadequate and alienated by eurocentric approaches to life. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Asiatic Gaze, Edithstein Cho, Jee Seun Choi, Hien Luu and Michael Swietek can be reached at echo1@nd.edu 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Displaying our patriotism 
Over the past year, I’ve oftentimes noticed that the flag in the center of South Quad has not been raised on my way to an 8:30 a.m. class. 
While I thought this was peculiar for a university whose mantra is “God, Country, Notre Dame,” apathy got the best of me, and I never pressed the issue as the flag flew later in the day. 
But today, only two days shy of the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11, I was pushed over the edge. 
Our great country’s beautiful colors, and everything they represent, were not displayed on South Quad this afternoon. 
Immediately upon realizing this, I rushed to Hammes-Mow­bray, where I found the flag raised to full staff. 
I can only encourage those who have the privilege of raising our Stars and Stripes to do so in a dignified manner that exemplifies the feverish patriotism found throughout campus. 
Kelly James 
senior Duncan Hall Sept. 9 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

WEEKLY POLL 
How often do you go onto 
The Observer’s website? 
“Tact is the ability to describe others as they see themselves.” 
Every day Abraham Lincoln 
Once a week 16th president of the U.S. 
Once a month Never 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 

Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alumni ad-libs 
Last year, I noticed a trend in alumni Letters to the Editor after football losses, which appears to be catching on once again. So I figured I would save our, no doubt, very busy alumni some time by drawing up a template for them that they can simply fill out and resubmit. 
No need to thank me. 
I, (name of alumnus) was (adjective), (synonym of ad­jective), and downright (synonym of adjective) after the game on Saturday. Never mind that the team performed like (animal) feces, or that (head coach)’s face was con­sistently (color) — no, the real problem lies in the student section. 
Back in (national championship year), I never would have dreamed that Notre Dame fans would behave so (negative adjective). Leaving the game early? Booing the team?! I never would have booed (ND football icon), and not just because he had (impressive statistics). 
It was because I had love for the team, which was in no way related to our (big number)-(small number) record. 
Back in my day, if the football team had performed like it has in recent years, I would have shown the same support, and that is in no way an embellishment or an exaggeration. 
You (insulting adjective) current students have yet to realize that you are the team’s only hope. 
(Rankings poll) and (TV contractor) will realize before long that Notre Dame doesn’t deserve (fraction) of the preseason accolades it receives. 
We alumni won’t be here forever, and when we’re gone, who will contribute to the sense of entitlement on cam­pus? 
Most importantly, who will write outraged letters to (student publication) complaining about (irrelevant is­sue)? Shame on you. 
In closing, I would like to remind the reader that this letter is in no way an attempt to project my frustration with the football team on (anything but the football team) because of my inability to accept the reality of account­ability. 
Besides, I make $(obscene number) a year as (ambigu­ous position title) at (impressive corporation), so what I say matters. 
Cordially, 
(Alumnus) 
Class of (some number between 1960-1990) 
Hank Duden 
sophomore O’Neill Hall Sept. 8 
Military-industrial complex 
This is in response to “War weary America” from Sept. 9: 
War weary? I think not! America loves war. If we pull out of those two wars, do you know how many jobs will be lost? Who would help increase the deficit if we didn’t go to war? 
President Eisenhower warned us about the Military-Industrial Complex, and he was spot on. We have had a history of major military engagements since War World Two that is troublesome. 
However, what is even more amazing is that this military-industrial complex is now mostly secret. Do you know that the amount of money we spend on defense and intelligence is a state secret? 
If you tried to find out the budget for CIA, FBI, DHS, NSA, NRO, DIA, NGA, ONI, INSCOM, AFISRA, MCIA, OICI, I&A, CGI, DEA, INR and TFI, you would have a difficult time. Wow, look at that list. I’m sure there’s a few more somewhere that are classified. 
So, if we stop going to war, if we stop the military-industrial complex, people lose too much money. We have spent somewhere between three and four trillion dollars or more over the past 10 years on fighting this war on terrorism. Somebody is getting rich, and they would like to keep it that way. Welcome to 1984! 
And don’t worry, no Republican is going to change the status-quo much either, so we’re in for a real treat.
 Robert McKeon 
Class of 2010 Ambridge, Pa. Sept. 8 
Attacks were acts, not events 
Riding my bicycle to school on Sept. 11, 2001, I can remember thinking what a beautiful day it was. Little did I know it would be one of the dark­est days in U.S. history. It was the beginning of the “post-9/11 world.” 
Ten years after the attacks, a lot has changed. The Pentagon has been repaired and federal of­ficials have gone back to work there. One World Trade Center rises 80 stories above Lower Man­hattan, well on its way to a final height of 1,776 feet. Workers have cleaned up the ash and dust that floated down like snow from the New York City sky. The plane wreckage has been cleared from a field in Shanksville, Pa. 
We are rebuilding. 
Considering the progress we have made, it can be tempting to consider 9/11 as an impersonal event. Is it time to simply put the attacks behind us and move on with our lives? No, because 9/11 was so much more than a point on the timeline of history. The Sept. 11 attacks were acts — not events — of intense hatred that claimed almost 3,000 innocent lives. They were not natural disas­ters; they were man-made. 
The stages of grief are temporary, and it is good for us to rebuild and move forward after a trage­dy. But we also ought to remember the heroism of the first responders, the families’ heartbreak for loved ones lost and the blind hatred of the fanatics who hijacked four commercial airliners. 
With this in mind, may we stand against hatred in our world, bringing about a planet on which such heinous acts as the Sept. 11 attacks will never again be committed. There is a difference between living with a tragedy and forgetting about a tragedy. We must strive to do the former, not the latter. 
Mark Sonnick 
junior Siegfried Hall Sept. 7 
The state of the program 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
Football is a physical game that requires vicious play. It demands respect both of and for the op­ponent. However, you gain the respect of no one if you first fail to respect yourself. 
As it stands, there are three men who have proven that they can restore the football program to elite status. 
Two are yet again positioning their teams to reach the pinnacle of the college football season. One is on hiatus. 
The University of Notre Dame oversees a $6.8 billion endowment that it has amassed due to excellence in academic, athletic and spiritual pursuits. The football program is the cornerstone 
— it’s what separates us from the University of Dayton. Money should be no object to revive the biggest reason why we are all a part of this com­munity. 
Jack, I don’t care what it takes. Fly six Black Hawks to his home, extricate it from Mother Earth and bring him to South Bend. 
The landscape of college football is about to change dramatically. Clever brand positioning has allowed us to limp along in mediocrity for 18 years. 
It can sustain us no longer. Conference affilia­tion is not an option. 
The time to act responsibly occurred 15 years ago. We are only left with today. Let’s live for it while we still can. 
Mike Varley 
Class of 2007 Durham, N.C. Sept. 11 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, September 12, 2011 

Scene Staff Report 
New Shows 
“The Ringer” — Tuesday, Sept. 13, The CW 
The most exciting part about this upcoming CW show is that Buffy is back! Sarah Michelle Gellar has had an almost cult following in the science fic­tion genre, and this show will have a creepy edge perfect for her. Gellar plays Bridget Kelly, a wom­an who is starting to turn her life around right as she is the only witness in a murder trial. Telling no one, she reunites with her estranged twin, Siob­han, in New York. Her sister is living a pampered life and is married to a handsome self-made million­aire, played by Ioan Gruffudd of “Fantastic Four” fame. The only catch is that no one in Siobhan’s life knows that her troubled twin exists. The sisters seem to be mending their relationship when Siob­han disappears mysteriously, and Bridget makes the decision to take on her sister’s identity. She be­gins to discover shocking secrets about her twin’s life, which was not the fairy tale it appeared to be. All in all, it looks like a show that will have plenty of twists and turns, as well as the mysteri­ous secret factor that draws in the “Pretty Little Liars” crowd. 
“Up All Night” — Wednesday, Sept. 14, NBC 
The new comedy series stars Will Arnett and Christina Applegate as the parents of an infant struggling to keep their lives in balance. While the premise sounds a bit cliché, so is pretty much every new TV show ever. It all depends on the cast and the writing, and with Applegate and Arnett heading the show, not to mention SNL alum Maya Rudolph as a co-star, it seems to be in good hands. It’d be nice to see an Arnett project take off, as his show last year, “Running Wilde,” failed so miserably. The only possible hiccup in this show is that Nick Cannon also co-stars. Lorne Michaels is an executive producer though, so maybe he can teach Cannon to be funny. 
“The Playboy Club” — Monday, Sept. 19, NBC 
This new NBC drama is the story of life in Chicago in the 1960s at the downtown Playboy Club.  The Club is a fantasy world full of beautiful Bunnies, powerful men and plenty of secrets and intrigue to go around.  A star-studded cast compliments the provocative and ambitious new show, with actors like Eddie Cibrian (“Third Watch”), Amber Heard (“Pineapple Express”), Jenna Dewan Tatum (“Step Up”) and David Krumholtz (“Numb3rs”).  Secrets, dangerous friendships and the mob promise to make this a show to put on your fall TV schedule. 
“Pan Am” — Sunday, Sept. 25, ABC 
Set in the 1960s, this series is positioning itself as the perfect alternative to “Mad Men” during its off-season. “Pan Am” follows a crew of pilots and airhostesses as they take to the skies and live the glamorous jet-set lifestyle of which most Ameri­cans can only dream. The show stars Christina Ricci as a free spirit who buttons up for a prop­er career as a flight attendant. The ‘60s style will surely be a draw for many viewers and the stewardess uniforms are certainly fashionable. 
“Terra Nova” – Monday, Sept. 26, Fox 
In 2149, the Earth’s resources are just about 
used up. To try to fix this, scientists construct a time machine that will send groups of people back in time to prehistoric Earth, where peo­ple can continue to live freely and, hopefully, save the Earth from its bleak future. “Terra Nova” focuses most closely on a single fam­ily who travel to Terra Nova, the first human colony. Unfortunately, Terra Nova happens to be in the midst of packs of dangerous di­nosaurs. Produced by Steven Spielberg, Fox is banking on this big budget sci-fi show to 

be a hit. Previews suggest we won’t be dis­appointed. 
“Alcatraz” — Monday, midseason, Fox 
J.J. Abrams is launching a new show on Fox mid-season about a group of smart and witty people solving crimes. Typi­cal weeknight television show, right? Wrong. J.J. would never endorse such an unoriginal set-up. The show’s crime investigators are chasing down inmates from Alcatraz who are wreaking havoc on San Francisco’s streets, 50 years af­ter their mysterious disappearance from the prison.  Now that’s more like it. Let’s remember that Abrams also brought us 
“Alias,” “Fringe” and “Lost,” which had a cast member that will also star in “Alca­traz,” Jorge Garcia. 
“Awake” – 2012, NBC 
Certainly one of the most interesting concepts on TV, “Awake” centers on a cop who is involved in a car crash with his wife and son. One dies, but he isn’t sure 
which one. In one of his realities, he has lost his wife, and in the other, it is son who died instead. He isn’t sure which of these re­
alities is real, nor is he particularly keen on either of them. The writers never give any clues, at least in the early episodes, as to which of his realities is real. It’s hard to say 
where the story will go, but for now, it’s an incredibly compelling show unlike anything else on TV. 
Returning Shows 
“Parenthood” — Tuesday, Sept. 13, NBC 
The Braverman fanily returns for a second season this fall.  Almost dysfunctional, the three genera­tion of family living in the same household struggle with the same issues that most families do, just with a touch more drama.  The family has survived by burying all ma­jor problems under the happy surface of their family, but the problems continue to emerge in typical comedic drama fashion. Lauren Graham also shines in her first ma­jor TV role since “Gilmore Girls” as Sarah, the slightly unstable but always hilarious 
daughter, especially with such a star-studded supporting cast, including Dax Shepard and Peter Krause. 
“It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” — Thurs­
day, Sept. 15, FX 
“It’s Always Sunny” is not for the easily of­fended. The show focuses on a group of friends who own a shoddy bar in Philadelphia. At the 

DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
boundaries of vampire-werewolf relationships. 


Tammy #1 (Patricia Clarkson) came back. Clarkson 
A promising new season ensues. is sure to be terrifyingly wonderful in the role. Tom (Aziz Ansari) will watch as his new media company either explodes with 
“How I Met Your Mother” — Monday, Sept. 19, success or crashes and burns — probably CBS the latter. Meanwhile, April (Aubrey Pla­
Ted’s (Josh Radnor) search for love will contin-za) and Andy (Chris Pratt) will continue to ue when Season 7 of the sitcom opens. With Lily deal with married life in a way only they (Alyson Hannigan) finally pregnant, Ted will in-can. evitably be even more pathetically pressured to find the love of his life. But the most intriguing “Desperate Housewives” — Sunday, plot line to come stems from the cryptic image of Sept. 25, ABC Barney (Neil Patrick Harris) at the alter, about to Viewers of ABC’s “Desperate Housewives” wed an unidentified bride. We all hope it’s Robin are preparing to say goodbye to Wisteria (Colbie Smulders), but with the show’s producers Lane as they await the show’s eighth and Carter Bays and Craig Thomas’ affinity for drag-final season premiere. Last season left ging us in circles for seasons on end, we prob-fans marveling at the twisted, overlap-ably won’t know if that’s the case anytime soon. ping lifestyles of the housewives. This 
season’s premiere trailer alludes to center of the commotion is the Reynolds fam­ily, comprised of siblings Dennis and Sweet Dee (Glenn Howerton and Kaitlin Olson) and father Frank (Danny DeVito). Further initiating the hu­mor are Dennis’ childhood friends, the laughably bizarre Mac and Charlie (Rob McElhenney and Charlie Day). McElhenney gained 50 pounds for the show’s seventh season, so viewers should be prepared for a barrage of inappropriate and immature fat jokes. The new season’s promo is hugely intriguing. Charlie is coaching child pag­eants, Frank is getting married and the Waitress and Cricket make their return to the storyline. 
“The Vampire Diaries” — Thursday, Sept. 15, The CW 
After a tumultuous end to Season 2, The CW’s “Vampire Diaries” promises an exciting new season, full of all the love, blood and generally gorgeous people we have come to love. To save his brother’s life, Stefan (Paul Wesley) pledged himself to be Klaus’ (Joseph Morgan) wingman, which mostly consists of biting the necks of the unsuspecting humans around them. Meanwhile, Elena (Nina Dobrev) will still be caught in a love triangle between Stefan and Damon (Ian Somerhalder), his brother, but with Stefan MIA, Elena and Damon may finally have a chance. Caroline (Candace Ac-cola) and Tyler (Michael Trevino) will continue to build sexual tension and just might push the 

“Glee” — Tuesday, Sept. 20, Fox 
This season will be the last for “Glee” stars Lea Michele, Cory Monteith and Chris Colfer. As these three main characters prepare for gradu­ation and their final shot at a Glee Club Nation­al Title, an intense Season 3 musical repertoire seems likely. Fans should also look out for “Glee” newcomers this year. The two winners from Oxy­gen’s “The Glee Project,” Samuel Larsen and Da­mian McGinty, have been promised seven-episode stints this season, while the two runners-up, Alex Newell and Lindsay Pearce, have been promised two-episode appearances. Though viewers can ex­pect some big revelations about the characters’ fu­tures on the show, anchors like Mr. Schuester (Matt Morrison) and Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch) will con­tinue to be entertaining. 
“Modern Family” — Wednesday, Sept. 21, ABC 
If you enjoy a laugh, relatable characters, and the awkward situations of others, you do, or should, watch ABC’s hit show “Modern Family.” On the off-chance that you don’t watch this show, it high­lights the humor in the everyday lives of the mem­bers of an extended family. Season two ended with a middle school graduation and an endear­ing moment (that seems to happen every episode) when the family realized how lucky they were to have each other. The third season is starting off with a one hour, instead of the usual thirty-minute, episode about the family vacationing at a Dude Ranch. The third season is sure to have plenty of laughs in store. 
“The Office” — Thursday, Sept. 22, NBC 
After Michael Scott (Steve Carrell) left Dunder Mifflin for the spacious views of Colorado, many fans felt the show was lacking something. Find­ing a replacement for Carrell is nearly impossible, but producers have tried everything to find some­one who meshes well with the rest of the office. It seems that they’ve landed on a winner. In the sea­son finale last spring, the audience saw a wide vari­ety of potential bosses, including Warren Buffet and Jim Carrey, but the producers have chosen James Spader’s creepily intimidating character, Robert California. The show will have a totally different vibe, but true Office fans will surely tune in Sept. 22 for the premiere. 
“Community” — Thursday, Sept. 22, NBC 
The comedy series focused on a group of students attending Greendale Community 
College has been renewed for a third sea­son set to premiere next week. Joel McHale (“The Soup”) leads the group of misfits as they try to skate through “college,” if one could call it that. Last season ended by revis­iting the greatest of all “Community” episodes in yet another school wide paintball war. The episode ended with Pierce (Chevy Chase) leav­ing “the group” and presumably the show. It 
will be interesting to see how the show deals with this, but there’s little doubt “Commu­nity” will continue to be comedy gold. 
“Parks and Recreation” — Thursday, 
Sept. 22, NBC 
When last season closed, Leslie Knope (Amy Poehler) had been approached about running for mayor. Leslie’s vaulting ambi­tion and love of local government made saying “yes” easy. Unfortunately, her for­bidden inter-office romance with Ben Wy­att (Adam Scott) might be too big a road­block to jump. Elsewhere in Pawnee, Ind., Ron Swanson (Nick Offerman) and his ex-wife Tammy #2 (Megan Mullally) were struck by the fear of God when Ron’s first ex, 
the fleshing out of dramatic plotlines, opening with Lynette (Felicity Huff­man), Susan (Teri Hatcher), Gabri­elle (Eva Longoria) and Bree (Marcia Cross) rushing to bury Season 7’s murder victim. The final season does not seem to slow the fast pace of the show, still introducing new charac­ters and revealing the sordid details 
of Wisteria Lane’s inhabitants. 
“Psych” — Wednesday, Oct. 12, 
USA 
Shawn (James Roday) and Gus (Dulé Hill) return to USA this fall Oct. 12 to solve the mystery of a body found in the home of a Brit­ish diplomat.  All your favorite main characters are returning, and drama promises to unfold as Shawn and Juliet’s (Maggie Law­son) relationship is revealed and Shawn’s abilities are called into question.  The laughter also prom­ises to continue this season with an Indiana Jones-themed episode, 
as well as guest stars ranging from Wade Boggs to Pitbull to William Shatner.  Don’t miss a second of this hilariously awesome show. 
“Bones” — Thursday, Nov. 3, Fox 
The Fox TV show returns Nov. 3 af­ter the jaw-dropping cliffhanger that ended last season.  Dr. Temperance “Bones” Brennan (Emily Deschanel) and Special Agent Seeley Booth (David Boreanez), after six seasons of dancing around each other and their feelings, are having a baby together.  The two will navigate their new relationship status as well as all their new cases in this season. Although the season will focus a lot on the characters’ changing personal lives, the show will still be a crime drama at heart, and the duo will continue their 
unbroken streak of crime solving. 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Monday, September 12, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Sports serve as a fitting 9/11 tribute 
There’s no denying it. The events of Sept. 11, 2001 dra­matically changed the face of American culture —and sports were no exception. 
Across the coun­try, profes­sional sports stopped, uncertain if more attacks were to come. That Saturday, college foot­ball games across the country were canceled, as fear still ran rampant — gatherings of tens of thousands of fans were no longer expressions of common support for a cause, but rather prime targets for destruction. 
These were not just tempo­rary changes, either. The sear­ing memories of 9/11 caused lasting changes that persist to this day. Just 

So while America 
as airline secu-returned to 
rity tightened, has changed, many normalcy. Some so did stadium things about sports things will never security. Body are back to the way be the same, frisks and they once were. but many things 
bomb-sniffing dogs, once unheard-of at sporting events, are now commonplace. 
But security wasn’t the only change. 
Across the sports world, trib­utes to those lost in the attacks cropped up. As America went to war in Afghanistan, and later in Iraq, teams, athletes and fans honored American soldiers with flags, posters, flyovers, chants, fireworks and ceremonies. 
When the Yankees made it to the 2001 World Series, every sports fan watched as President George W. Bush threw out the first pitch — and many of them cheered for the hated New York team. How could they not, play­ing so close to Ground Zero and after such a moving rendition of “God Bless America?” 
But these days, the tributes have moved from genuine to contrived, from heartfelt ges­tures to marketing gimmicks. Every Fourth of July, baseball teams around the country take the field in American-flag hats that serve just as much to pad owners’ coffers as they do to pay respect. “God Bless Amer­ica” has become so common­place that fans are willing to go to the concession stand instead of stand and sing — much like they used to for “Take Me Out to the Ball Game.” Even the “U­S-A!” chant has started to feel hollow. 
You might think this is a problem. 
It’s not. 
In the immediate aftermath of the attacks, it became clear what al-Qaeda’s goal was. It was not to kill every American citizen. Rather, these terrorists 
truly desired terror. What they wanted, more than anything, was to disrupt the American way of life. Their ideal world was one where every American worried about his or her safety 
every time he or she left home. 
In that world, American culture disappears. Fathers stop taking their families to baseball games. Mothers stop buying their children tickets to football games. Sports fall out of American culture. 
They have not. 
Rather than see al-Qaeda 
accomplish its 
goal, Americans 
have largely 
are returning to 
where they used 
to be. Americans 
fill arenas and stadiums across the United States. Record crowds gather in expanded facilities. Owners have gone back to the quintes­sential American pastime of pursuing larger profits. 
This is the best tribute we can pay to those who perished in the attacks 10 years ago. 
A decade ago, this nation faced a choice. It could change the way it lived. It could allow the terrorists to accomplish their goal. Or, it could forge ahead, newly resolved instead of weakened. It could secure its way of life and refuse to allow the forces of evil to dictate how its citizens lived their lives. 
So while America has changed, many things about sports are back to they way they once were. The Yankees are once again the Evil Empire, owners are making money and fans are chanting things for the sake of chanting them. 
The American Way has won. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at
 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
NFL 
Newton shines, but Panthers fall 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Cam Newton’s NFL debut was as magnificent as they come, ex­cept for the outcome. 
Instead, another rookie scored the game winner. 
Patrick Peterson made amends for a long afternoon at cornerback with an 89-yard punt return for the go-ahead touchdown and the Arizona Cardinals escaped with a 28­21 victory over the Carolina Panthers on Sunday. 
Newton, the No. 1 draft pick playing on the same field where he led Auburn to the BCS championship in Janu­ary, completed 24 of 37 passes for 422 yards and two touch­downs with one interception, the first rookie to throw for more than 400 yards in his NFL opener. 
The Panthers had first down at the Arizona 11 late in the game, and even got an extra down on an offside call, but failed to score. Steve Smith, who wore red-white-and-blue gloves and cleats, had eight catches for 178 yards for Car­olina, including touchdown plays of 77 and 26 yards. 
Kevin Kolb was 18 of 27 for 309 yards and two touch­downs in his first game for Arizona. Peterson, the fifth overall pick victimized by Smith most of the afternoon, hauled in the punt and broke a tackle and darted downfield on the long run but almost paid dearly for a showboat move at the finish. 
He began to strut, not real­izing Carolina’s Mike Goodson was gaining on him. Peterson glanced around, realized the error of his ways, and sprint­ed away, diving over the goal line to put Arizona ahead 28­21 with 7:15 to play. 
With the help of a roughing­the-passer penalty against Clark Haggans, the Panthers drove downfield and had first down at the 11. Four consecu­tive passes were incomplete, but an offside penalty on fourth down moved the ball to the Arizona 5 and gave Caro­lina one more chance. New­ton threw over the middle to Goodson to the 2, but he was a yard shy of the first down and the Cardinals ran out the clock. 
Both of Newton’s TD passes came in the first half as Car­olina took a 14-7 lead at the break. 
The Cardinals, meanwhile, drove inside the Carolina 6 twice in the second quarter and came away with nothing. 
On second-and-goal from the 4, Beanie Wells, who rushed for 90 yards on 18 car­ries including a 7-yard touch­down run, muffed a pitch from Kolb and Carolina’s Thomas Davis recovered. 
After forcing a punt, Ari­zona drove to the Panthers 5, but a crackback block penalty against Andre Roberts drove the team back, and Jay Feely’s 36-yard field goal try was wide left. Feely was 14-for-14 from inside the 40 a year ago. 
The Panthers took over at their 36 with 1:03 to play in the half. Daryl Washington in­tercepted Newton’s pass over the middle, but the play was nullified by a roughing-the­passer penalty against Peter­son. 
Moments later, Smith beat Peterson in the corner of the end zone and Newton lofted the ball perfectly in place to give Carolina the lead in front of the stunned crowd. 
Arizona went 54 yards in six plays on its first posses­sion, with Wells scoring on the 7-yard run. 

After the subsequent kick­off, the Panthers had a third­and-7 from their 23 when new defensive coordinator Ray Horton called a blitz. 
In a mix up in the second­ary, Smith was at least 20 yards behind the nearest de­fender, safety Kerry Rhodes. The Panthers’ star receiver ran untouched to the end zone to tie it at 7-7 with 7:11 left in the opening quarter. 
Kolb’s pass under duress to wide open tight end Jeff King for 48 yards and a touchdown tied it at 14-14, but Carolina took the kickoff and went 80 yards in eight plays to take a 21-14 lead, Newton leaping over the line for the score. His air-guitar strum of the football in celebration drew an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty. 
Kolb found Early Doucet over the middle and the re­ceiver broke a tackle then dashed 70 yards for the tying score with 10:48 to play. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
What point could there be Take your hands from your eyes, And let the rain come flooding in “First prize at the World Series of 
TICKETS PERSONAL 
troubling my love Poker is a million bucks. Does it have my name on it? I don’t know. Head down wondering what will Everything must end some time Wash out this tired notion But, I’m gonna find out.”- Mike  BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? become of me That the best is yet to come McDermott from “Rounders.” 
GAMES - Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to Why concern we cannot see Don’t burn the day away Come and relax now She said a hundred times. She assist you. If you or someone you said a thousand times. love needs confidential support But no reason to abandon it Come sister my brother Put your troubles down or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Eat, drink, and be merry for Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at Time is short but that’s all right Shake up your bones shake up No need to bear the weight of your tomorrow we die. 
GAs only. Call 574-277-1659 1-2685. For more information, your feet worries visit ND’s website at: http:// Maybe I’ll go in the middle of the I live on the corner of Grey Street pregnancysupport@nd.edu night I’m saying open up Just let them all fall away. and the end of the world. 
Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 
Chargers complete comeback; Grossman leads Redskins 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — The San Di­ego Chargers seemed headed for another one of those slow starts that have defined coach Norv Turner’s tenure. 
The Chargers not only let Per­cy Harvin return the opening kickoff 103 yards for a touch­down, but kicker Nate Kaeding hurt his left knee on the play, forcing punter Mike Scifres to do his first place-kicking since college. 
Well, guess again. 
With the Vikings sputter­ing badly, Philip Rivers got the opening he’d been waiting for all afternoon. He threw a 19­yard touchdown pass to full­back Mike Tolbert with 5:01 to play to lift the Chargers to a 24­17 win on Sunday. 
“When we face adversity, we don’t curl up and call it quits,” said Scifres, a nine-year vet­eran who signed a $19 million contract extension Wednesday. 
“It’s big,” Rivers said. “We’d love not to have those inter­ceptions, and we’d love to have that kickoff back and just let it be smooth and easy, but it’s these kind of wins that you re­ally grow. You grow more than a week.” 
On the winning play, Riv­ers rolled left and waited for Tolbert to get open inside the 5-yard line, then lobbed the pass. 
“The protection was great, so I had time to step up, step up, and then to get out of the pock­et, he was hanging with me,” Rivers said. “He was looking at me like, ‘Are you going to run it or throw it?’ I would prefer to throw it.’ 
Rivers completed 33 of 48 passes for 335 yards and was intercepted twice. 
Tolbert also scored on a 7-yard run in the third quarter and had a 1-yard TD catch in the first quarter. 
“We were hyped even when were down 17-7,” said Tolbert, who had stars shaved into his hair to commemorate the 10th anniversary of 9/11. “Nobody had their head down and said, ‘Here we go again.’ “ 
Minnesota led 17-7 at half­time, but gained only 26 yards on 17 plays in the second half. Their new quarterback, Dono­van McNabb, struggled against San Diego’s defense and was only 7 of 15 for 39 yards, with one touchdown and one inter­ception. 
“It’s embarrassing to have the numbers that we had, what­ever we had,” McNabb said. “I can do that in one series and we’ll get them corrected.” 
Adrian Peterson, who set the NFL single-game record with 296 yards against San Diego as a rookie in 2007, was held tension potentially worth $100 to 98 yards on 16 carries one million. day after signing a contract ex-“We really had some oppor-tunities and felt we ran the ball pretty well in the first half,” Peterson said. “We didn’t get anything going in the second half. We have to get our pass­ing game going better.” 


Chargers linebacker Takeo Spikes said he heard that Pe­terson said during the week that he was going to rush for 200 yards and the Vikings would win. 
“We really felt disrespected,” Spikes said. “ 
San Diego’s rally included Tolbert bulling in from the 7 early in the third quarter and Scifres kicking his first NFL field goal, a 40-yarder with 
10:05 left that tied the game at 
17. Scifres also had three PATs. The game had a crazy first few minutes. 
Harvin returned the opening kickoff 103 yards for a touch­down, showing that the Char­gers hadn’t fully erased their special teams nightmare of 2010, which cost them a play­off berth. Kaeding hurt his left knee on the play and missed the rest of the game. 
Redskins 28, Giants 14 
LANDOVER, Md. — Rex Grossman celebrated what he thought was his first touch­down pass by leapfrogging receiver Anthony Armstrong. Oops. Not quite. Turns out Armstrong was down at the 1. 
When Grossman later con­nected with Armstrong for a touchdown that counted, the quarterback made a giddy backward trot toward the side­line, then turned around and kept running for another 20 yards or more along the Wash­ington Redskins bench. 
“Some situations are more emotional than others,” Gross­man said. “I just react to the moment. I was happy.” 
There was more Good Rex than Bad Rex in Grossman’s first Week 1 start since 2007. The quarterback so maligned back then in Chicago completed 21 of 34 passes for 305 yards Sunday with two touchdowns, no interceptions and one lost fumble — mostly avoiding the type of negative play that has so often defined his career — as the Redskins opened the season with a 28-14 win over the New York Giants. 
“I know it means so much to Rex,” said tight end Chris Cool­ey, who had a Saturday dinner with Grossman during which both expressed their opening day nerves. “He wants to be an outstanding quarterback. ... He deserved to play so well today. I’m so happy for him.” 
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Monday, September 12, 2011 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles keep winning streak alive with victory 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s continued its winning pattern with a 2-0 victory over Franklin on Sunday, keeping its unde­feated streak alive. 
The Belles (4-0), who are enjoying their best start to the season in recent history, took an early lead against the Grizzlies (3-1). Belles coach Michael Joyce said he was pleased with his squad’s play despite unusual con­ditions. 
“I thought 
Saint Mary’s scored off its first corner kick with a goal inside the three-minute mark by sophomore midfielder Mol­lie Valencia, her first of the season. 
Just seven minutes lat­er junior midfielder Mad­die Meckes kicked another corner kick to sophomore forward Jordan Diffender­fer, but the Franklin goalie blocked the shot. Senior cap­tain and midfielder Katelyn Tondo-Steele snatched the ball up and found the back of the net for her third goal of the season. 
The Belles held onto their lead for the rest of the game, blocking every attempt from the Grizzlies to gain momen­tum, and putting in strong performances at every posi­tion. 
The younger Belles stepped up, with freshman goalie Natalie Warner playing the entire game for Saint Mary’s and gaining her first season win. Warner also blocked a penalty kick during the first half in the process of earn­ing her first collegiate shut­out. Joyce said Meckes and 
we played “We’re happy with our well,” Joyce start. But there are said. “It was some very good teams challenging in our conference, so because it we try to get a little was artifi-sharper each time out.” 
cial turf, but we did fairly 
Michael Joyce 
well with our 
Belles coach 
possession.” 
sophomore defender Kerry Puck­ett also had exceptional performanc­es in the contest. 
“Kerry at­tacked well out of the back and Maddie worked tire­lessly in the midfield,” he said. “She covered a lot of ground and was a big factor to­day.” 
Joyce said he is happy with his team’s fast start this season, but is well aware of the challenges it will face once conference play begins Wednesday. 
“We’re happy with our start,” Joyce said. “But there are some very good teams in our conference, so we try to get a little sharper each time out.” 
The Belles will take the field next against Olivet on Wednesday, kicking off con­ference play at 5 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.eu 
SMC GOLF 
Saint Mary’s tied for eighth place 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a loss in their first match of the season, the Belles shot a score of 338 Sun­day at the Warren Golf Course, emerging from the first day of the O’Brien National Invita­tional tied for eighth place. 
No. 5 Saint Mary’s currently shares the eighth spot with Gustavus Adolphus College, the first round of competition leaving them 23 shots behind co-leaders No. 1 Methodist University and No. 8 Centre College. No. 2 Depauw holds the third place spot with a 317. 
One of the strongest tour­naments in all of Division III women’s golf, the O’Brien Na­tional Invitational hosts only teams ranked in the top-11 
Kubinski 
continued from page 16 
to fill out a lineup one through five, Kubinski sees his top-five as a revolving group with a number of players capable of stepping in any given event, particularly Mc­Namara and seniors Max Scodro and Tom Usher. 
“Anyone can play a great round for us,” Kubinski said. “Whether it’s Scodro, or Usher or McNamara, we feel confident that we have guys who can per­form.” 
Today it was McNamara’s turn. 
Sinking seven birdies to go along with just three bogeys, nationally, including top-ranked Methodist. The field includes the NGCA Division III Freshman of the Year, 10 All-Americans and 16 All-Region honorees from 2011. 
Calm conditions provided good opportunities for scor­ing on the par-72 layout. The Belles were led by two scores of 83 from sophomore Doyle O’Brien and junior Cara Kiel­ty. The pair of 11-over rounds leaves them seven strokes off the individual lead in a tie for 24th place. O’Brien turned in a strong individual perfor­mance, highlighted by a birdie on the par-four 16th hole. 
The top spot is shared by five players: Centre College’s junior Whitney Miller, Meth­odist’s sophomore Kelsie Car­ralero and junior Jenny Sul-
McNamara sits at five-under par after 36 holes, one shot ahead of Iowa’s Barrett Kelpin. 
“There was a stretch there where Paul finished six-under,” Kubinski said. “And it could have been seven-under if he’d sunk a four-foot birdie putt. It’s really not surprising with Paul. He’s got the whole game, he’s driving really well and his short game is on. He’s fun to watch.” 
Sophomore Niall Platt finished in second for the Irish at three over par through two rounds, with Scodro, Usher and senior Chris Walker rounding out the scoring for the Irish at three, four and seven over par, respec­tively. 
Though Sunday’s results were an encouraging sign for an Irish team that has its sights on a suc­
livan, George Fox University’s junior Kelsey Morrison and 
Allegheny  College’s  Sarah  
Vorder Bruegge.  
Rounding  out  the  Belles’  

eligible scorers were seniors Natalie Matuszak and Chris­tine Brown, who fired scores of 85 and 93, respectively. The Belles also had a good show­ing by first year Janice Heffer­enan, who shot an 87 in just her second collegiate tourna­ment. 
The Belles will try to break into the tight top-five teams, which are separated by just eight shots. 
Competition will resume Monday at 8 a.m. at Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Joe wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
cessful post-season, Kubinski was quick to caution his players in team meetings Sunday eve­ning not to focus on the results of the teams around them. 
“I think in the past this team has paid too much attention to how the teams around them are doing,” Kubinski said. “But now they’re older and much more mature. They realize that only what they do tomorrow matters. This is an experienced team.” 
With the second round of the Gopher Invitational Monday, Notre Dame will be matched with the rest of the top-four teams in Arkansas, UNC-Char­lotte and SMU as the Irish return to the course in Wayzata, Minn. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
during the first half, with six to the defenders. 
Clark 
Pioneers’ five, the post-rain second “[Bucknell] likes to play an aeri­half fared quite differently for the al game,” Clark said. “We knew we continued from page 16 Irish. Denver outshot them 10-9 would have to deal with that ele­
and tied the game up with goals in ment of the game, and I think we very closely. They are very physical the 52nd and 78th minutes. handled that pretty well. They had with a pretty direct style of play, The teams played two rounds of two 6’5 forwards, so you’ve got to and they get the ball forward.” 10-minute overtimes with neither handle their aerial ability.” 
The biggest setback for the Irish side acquiring the winning goal. Notre Dame broke away early on Friday was the torrential rains, With three minutes left before the against Bucknell with a 1-0 lead Clark said. Toward the end of the game was called a tie, junior mid-just 26 seconds into the game af­first half, he said the rain drasti-fielder Kyle Richard had a shot on ter junior midfielder Bob Novak cally affected how the No. 14 Irish goal that looked like it might end scored the first goal of both the played. the game in favor of the Irish, but it game and his career. The early 
“The heavens opened and it hit the crossbar and the clock ran goal advantage carried the Irish made the field very sloppy, but I out. into halftime and gave them a lead think we adapted by the end of the “[Denver] certainly made it a they hung onto for the remainder game,” Clark said. battle and showed a lot of char-of the match. 
In Friday’s 2-2 tie against Den-acter by getting two goals back,” “It was nice for the young Bob ver, the Irish took an early lead in Clark said. “They’re a good team, Novak to get that early goal,” Clark the first half when two Notre Dame and they’re a bit like Bucknell.” said. “It was a nice way to kick players earned their first career In the race for the tournament’s start the game from a Notre Dame goals. Senior midfielder Chris Sut-second place, Notre Dame defeated point of view.” ton opened scoring on the day with the Bison 2-1 Sunday. The Irish put another point on his goal off a pass from sophomore “Bucknell is always going to be a the scoreboard as senior midfield-forward Harrison Shipp. Just 10 big physical team,” Clark said. “We er Adam Mena scored in the 72nd minutes later, Notre Dame junior watched them play Indiana in a minute off a shot first fired by ju­forward Danny O’Leary brought very tight game on Friday.” nior midfielder Dillon Powers. The another goal for the Irish, putting Though Bucknell lost against Bucknell goalkeeper bobbled the them up 2-0. the tournament winner, they were ball as it entered the net. 
“I thought we opened the Denver able to score two goals on the top-With two minutes remaining Brendan Burgdorf found the loose of the games because he played game very well, the first half we 10 Hoosiers. in the game, the Bison came to-ball and sent it in the net. very well,” Clark said. “He has very played well and did a lot of things The most unique quality the Bi-gether and severed the possibility “That woke everyone up,” Clark good presence in the goal and he well,” Clark said. “I think the rain son brought to the game was their of a shutout match. After senior said. “We thought we were cruis-had several excellent saves.” mostly came at a bad time for us.” height on offense that gave this goalkeeper Will Walsh blocked a ing out of the game and finishing The Irish look forward to a five-
Though Notre Dame led in shots game a unique style for the Irish header, Bucknell junior forward it out nicely, and things changed day break from competition before pretty quickly at that point. That a tough upcoming weekend. They was a pretty drastic wake up, espe-welcome Michigan to Alumni Sta­cially after losing a two-goal lead dium on Friday and will travel to on Friday. That got the heart beat-East Lansing to play the Spartans ing a little bit faster.” of Michigan State on Sunday. 
Walsh let up only one goal in his “We’ll move on from there,” 90 minutes of play and tied his ca-Clark said. “We’ll try and sort some reer record of saves per game with things out for the next weekend in seven. Michigan for those two big games.” 
“Will was very solid over the weekend, I was sad for him that he Contact Molly Sammon at didn’t manage a shutout in either msammon@nd.edu 
Maddie Fox for the Sunday mati-
Waldrum 
nee. “Neither one has yet to prove 
continued from page 16 that they’re the goalkeeper we need, and that concerns me seven games into the season,” Waldrum 
fielder Mandy Laddish and senior said. midfielder Courtney Barg were Notre Dame’s defense continued each credited with an assist on to struggle over the weekend and the play. was left helpless when junior de-
Though Notre Dame held a de-fender Jazmin Hall left the Stan­cisive 11-4 advantage in shots ford game due to injury. on goal for the game, Stanford “I think we’re still a little stepped up in the clutch, netting questionable in the back. Fri-two goals in the last 10 minutes day against Stanford, we were of play. Cardinal senior forward clearly the better team. Jazmin Lindsay Taylor recorded a goal Hall played great, and when she and an assist, leading her team to left the game injured we scram-a 2-1 victory over the Irish. bled to find replacements,” Wal­
“It was a great game, and it was drum said. “The [defenders] we exactly everything we expected. groomed to give us minutes strug­They’re a great team and we gled, and we didn’t have what it played extremely, extremely well. takes to compete. We’re starting It’s disappointing to lose in the last to get things a little more settled, 10 minutes,” Irish coach Randy but we need more depth at those Waldrum said. “We had a couple positions.” of freshmen who made a few mis-The Irish got off to a slow start takes in there late. That’s why we at Santa Clara Sunday, and the get them in there, so they experi-Broncos took a 1-0 lead just under ence that and are better when we 30 minutes into the game. Despite see teams like that at the end of Notre Dame’s dominance in pos­the year.” session, the Irish struggled to heat 
The loss to the Cardinal marks up offensively. It was Henderson the first-ever defeat in Hender-who came through again for the son’s career in games she has Irish, scoring an unassisted goal recorded either a goal or assist with just under 30 minutes re­(47-1-3). maining to tie the game 1-1. 
Waldrum said he wants Hen-The Irish outmatched the Bron­derson to contribute even more to cos according to the stat sheet, the team. winning the shots-on-goal battle 
“Obviously she has a great im-9-6 and gathering five more cor­pact, but we need her to have a ners than Santa Clara. greater impact right now. She Waldrum said he was disap­can do so much more for us than pointed Notre Dame’s offensive what she’s doing. Things get in her performance did not carry over head, and she has to be mature from its tough loss at Stanford. and strong enough psychologi-“I’m disappointed in our finish­cally when things aren’t going her ing and creativity. We played well way,” he said. “She’s a key player, in time of possession, and we were and our record indicates that. dominant in every area and stat We know that, but right now we you can think of,” he said. “Good need her to lead a little more of-teams are hungry to score, and fensively.” we’re struggling with that right 
Irish freshman goalkeeper now.” Sarah Voigt started in goal for Notre Dame will return home to the Irish on Friday, recording take on Louisville Friday at 5 p.m. two saves and allowing two goals in crunch time at Stanford. Wal-Contact Megan Golden at drum turned to junior goalkeeper mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Monday, September 12, 2011 
of a timeout and miss a serve.” 
Brown 
In addition to some incon­
continued from page 16 
still, so we’re still learning the effect that each of the players have. She is a true competitor and she always wants the ball. I think she’s doing a great job so far.” 
Though Notre Dame did compete hard over the week­end, the team’s serving suf­fered at times and Brown said her team still has work to do. 
“We need to work on [serv­ing] a little bit more,” Brown said. “We’re putting pressure on some teams, but we’re miss­ing too many. There has to be a balance. You can’t serve so that all of them are in — that’s too easy. I think that we let teams off the hook a little bit this weekend when we’d have a tough serve on them, but then we would end up missing a serve or we would come out sistent serving, Brown said she was also disappointed in some of the sloppy plays over the weekend, particularly during Notre Dame’s loss to Portland. 
“There were some scramble plays where we just had poor communication and times when we had a relatively easy point or a free ball where we could have converted it and we didn’t,” she said. “Certainly, the opponents got their kills and their earned points, but I think that we hurt ourselves a decent amount as well. Those are the types of errors we have to eliminate.” 
The Irish will use a week of practice to fine-tune those er­rors as they prepare for this weekend’s InnTower Invita­tional in Wisconsin. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

Kuschel 
continued from page 16 
did a fantastic job of setting our offense.” 
Brink served up a match-high 26 assists. Junior Allison Zan­darski finished with 10 kills while freshman Kati Schneider and junior Stephanie Bodien re­corded seven each. 
On defense, the Belles held Olivet to a -.154 percentage in the first set and a .000 mark on the game. 
“That really showcased the total package right there,” Kus­chel said. “That’s how we want to play as a volleyball team, ag­gressive on both offense and defense. It’s something that we haven’t found as often as we’d like so far this year.” 
The win marked the first conference victory and second overall for the Belles. 
“A win, especially in confer­ence, always feels good,” Kus­chel said. 
Saint Mary’s returns to action at home Wednesday against Alma College at 7 p.m. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 


ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS 
HENRy ARNOLD 
THE LONDON EXPRESS 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Role reversal 
No. 8 Irish end West Coast swing winless 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
A statistically sound perfor­mance over the weekend turned ugly in a hurry for No. 8 Notre Dame, ultimately leaving the Irish with more questions surrounding their defense. 
The Irish (3-3-1) opened the weekend with an outstanding rematch of last year’s national championship, but struggled late in the game, which resulted in a 2-1 loss to No. 2 Stanford (5-0­1). Two days later, a few changes to the Irish defense proved ir­relevant, as Notre Dame tied No. 17 Santa Clara (3-0-4) in double overtime 1-1. 
Senior forward and tri-captain Melissa Henderson came up with the first goal against Stanford, sending a header past the Stan­ford defense and giving Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. The goal came 66 minutes into the game, which was interrupted by a 49-minute weather delay. Sophomore mid 
see WALDRUM/page 13 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND claims Golden Dome Invitational title 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After an up-and-down week­end that included the team winning easily Friday before dropping a close match Sat­urday, Notre Dame closed the Golden Dome Invitational with a dominant victory. 
The Irish (5-3) swept Lip­scomb (4-6) 3-0 Friday with an efficient offensive effort, but lost momentum as they fell to Portland (4-7) in five sets Saturday. The team rebound­ed Sunday, finishing off Val­paraiso (7-4) 3-0 to claim the tournament title. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said the team was disappoint­ed with its Saturday effort, but responded well Sunday against the Crusaders. 
“We were really disappoint­ed with [Saturday], so I feel like the team rebounded re­ally well and came out with a strong purpose today,” she said. “It wasn’t easy today at all. Valpo is a really good team 
— really scrappy. We had to fight for every point.” 
Brown also said her team’s win against Valparaiso bodes well for the young Irish as the season progresses. 
“It was a good maturing process for us,” Brown said. “Sometimes it’s not going to be easy and you just have to persevere and work through it. I’m really proud of the way the team battled today.” 
Freshman middle blocker/ outside hitter Jeni Houser took home tournament MVP honors, and joined fellow outside hitters freshman Toni Alugbue and sopho­more Andrea McHugh on the all-tournament team. 
Brown said the vocal Houser brings a competi­tive fire to the squad. 
“It’s tremendous,” Brown said of Houser’s effort. “The season is relatively young 
see BROWN/page 14 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary’s wins one of two matches 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Looking for their first win in conference play, the Belles took on top-ranked Calvin on Friday at home before traveling to Oliv­et on Saturday. 
Though Calvin College dis­missed the Belles 3-0 (25-14, 25-18, 25-22), Saint Mary’s took down Olivet College by the same count in its second match of the weekend (25-14, 25-18, 25-22). 
“I was really happy with how we played on Friday,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “Whether we were down five points or up three we played with the same intensity. I think that really carried over into Saturday.” 
The Belles (2-5, 1-2 MIAA) gave the defending national champion Knights a match Fri­day, responding to each Calvin run with a spurt of their own good play, challenging each set. In the end, however, the Knights’ superior hitting abil­ity proved too much for a Saint Mary’s team that was out-slugged .357 to .144 for the day. 
The Belles turned it around Saturday at Olivet, though, as they picked up their first win in their last four matches, sweep­ing the Comets in straight sets. While at times early in the sea­son they have struggled to syn­chronize good offense and de­fense, everything came together against Olivet. 
The Saint Mary’s offense in particular shined, hitting .500 in the opening set, with 13 kills and just two errors on 20 at­tempts. 
“I’m very happy with how our offense performed on Satur­day,” Kuschel said. “Our outside hitters did a great job. [Junior setter] Danie Brink once again 
see KUSCHEL/page 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish, Clark achieve record win 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Irish coach Bobby Clark became the winningest head coach in the history of the Notre Dame men’s soccer program after Sunday’s 2-1 victory over Bucknell as a part of the Mike Berticelli tournament at Alumni Stadium. 
With a 2-2 tie against Denver on Friday and Sunday’s subsequent win, the Irish (2-1-2) placed second in the tournament after No. 10 In­diana. 
“Notre Dame had a good over­all team performance, even Fri­day night, though the overtimes were more of a battle,” Clark said. “[Denver] played both their games 
see CLARK/page 13 

MEN’S GOLF 
Notre Dame leads Gopher Invitational 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After the first day of the Go­pher Invitational in Wayzata, Minn., the Irish find themselves at the top of the leader board. Led by junior Paul McNamara, who sits atop the individual standings, the Irish are up four shots on Arkansas with 36 holes to go. 
The first 36 holes proved to be a tale of two rounds for the Irish, as they collectively shot six-under par on their way to an eight-shot lead in the first round. In round two, a scorching back nine had to salvage a front that left much to be desired. 
Overall, however, Irish coach Jim Kubinski expressed satis­faction with his team’s perfor­mance. 
“We’re pretty happy with where we are at this point,” Ku­binski said. “Arkansas is a good team that finished very well in NCAA’s last year. So anytime we’re beating them, it’s nice to see us playing well.” 
The calling card of this expe­rienced Irish team is its depth. While the NCAA requires him 
see KUBINSKI/page 12 


