
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Blogs changing the face of traditional media 
By ANNA BOARINI Dame after reading the book information. Dame progressive headquar-Unlike “Lefty’s Last Cry,” News Writer “Stuff White People Like,” “Most newspapers and net-ters. Kinser’s blog “The Fifth Quar­
which also started as a blog, work news programs have de-“We write about a broad ar-ter” is written about whatever 
For 2009 Notre Dame gradu-with friends after a night out. clining audiences,” he said. ray of subjects — campaigns, inspires her, which is usually ate Bob Kessler, blogging about “We were just reading the “Blogs attract some of these debates, social issues,” Lynch sports. the oddities of Notre Dame stu-book and we started to think people.” said.  “We aren’t all serious, we “I decided to start putting dents started on the Internet, about all the unique things However, traditional media sometimes post funny videos or what I was writing on a blog but eventually made its way there are about Notre Dame sources are not dead yet, and cartoons, or write about cam-because it doesn’t necessarily into print. students,” Kessler said. blogs are helping them cater to paign gaffes.” have a common theme,” she 
Kessler, a former Observer Kessler used The Observer to a changing audience, Schmuhl She said the purpose of the said. “The things I’ve written Viewpoint columnist, was able help launch his blog, using two said. blog was to start dialogue be-about are more sports related, to take his blog “Things Notre of his first 10 posts as one of his “Increasingly, traditional tween conservatives and liber-but that’s mostly because it in-Dame Students Like” and snag Friday Viewpoint columns. He newspapers, magazines and als and to inform and become spires me with ideas to write a book deal. directed the readers of his col-broadcast networks offer staff informed as writers. about.” 
“I sort of thought it might umn to read more at his blog if members opportunities to blog, Henry Vasques, a 2010 grad-Kinser said her blog is still be possible to turn this into they liked what they read. and you see a combination of uate, began “Lefty’s Last Cry” fairly new and does not have a book, so I did an Amazon “I knew to have a successful delivery systems — the old and as a personal blog in 2008 and the following of a more estab­search of books about Notre blog, I had to have a continu-the new,” he said. it has expanded since then. lished blog. However, after a Dame and started to contact ous stream of posts,” he said. Schmul said what makes Lynch became a writer and link for one of her posts was authors,” he said. “That’s how “When I launched the blog, I blogs unique is the way they editor after its inception and put on the website for her local I found my publisher.” had already written the first 15 cater to a person’s interests, said “Lefty’s Last Cry” is a very newspaper, she said her blog 
Blogging is taking the me-entries.” but this also creates the dan-dynamic political community. saw more hits. dia world by storm, Ameri-Schmuhl said blogging is one ger of receiving limited infor-The blog eventually morphed “I am hoping to get feedback can Studies professor Robert of the many ways the media mation. into highly professional blog, from my blog and it was re-Schmuhl said, and Notre Dame world is changing. Instead of Junior Eileen Lynch writes with over 40 contributors and ally cool to see that [the sports is not an exception. just newspapers and news out-and edits for the blog “Lefty’s 100,000 hits, she said. writer] thought highly enough 
Kessler started his blog dur-lets delivering news, blogs are Last Cry,” a political blog that Senior Caitlin Kinser also ing his senior year at Notre also a way for people to receive refers to itself as the Notre runs a blog. see BLOGGING/page 3 
Professor charged with felony 
Observer Staff Report 
A Notre Dame criminal law professor faces a felony charge for domestic battery and will appear in court Jan. 3 for trial. 
Stephen Smith, 43, pled not guilty to the charge in June. A judge set the date for his trial during a hearing Tuesday in St. Joseph County Superior Court. 
University Spokesman Den­nis Brown said Notre Dame would not comment on person­al matters. 
Smith is still employed by the University, Brown said, and he is teaching classes this semes­ter. 
Police responded to a report of domestic violence at Smith’s south side home June 25, ac­cording to court documents. 
Smith allegedly became up­set with his wife after an eve­ning out with friends. His wife told police he yelled at her, knocked her to the ground and kicked her. 
Court documents state that the couple’s 23-year-old son heard the argument and con­fronted Smith. The two strug­gled before the son took his mother and brother to a neigh 

see SMITH/page 5 



Undergraduate print quota raised 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 

Students received more for their money this school year when the Office of Informa­tion Technology (OIT) in­creased the print quota. 
The undergraduate quota rose from 1,000 sheets per year to 1,500 sheets per year, said Brian Burchett, man­ager of technology enhanced learning spaces for OIT. For several years, the cost of printing one black and white sheet was 10 cents, Burchett said. 
“We dropped the price to five cents a sheet [for black and white], so students’ print quota went up by 50 percent,” he said. “And if they run out of print quota and they have to purchase more, now t0he price for students is half what it used to be.” 
The cost of printing one color sheet also decreased from 75 cents to 50 cents. 
However, Students have an initial quota of $75 per school year instead of the $100 given in past years, according to OIT’s website. 
Faculty members can no lon­ger request increases in their students’ print quotas, Bur­chett said. 
“We basically made it un­necessary for them to have to do that,” Burchett said. “Last year and in previous years, we ended up doing hundreds of requests for thousands of students. It just seemed to us and the faculty with whom we consulted that it was easier to give all students the additional quota to start with, rather than wait.” 

OIT staff gathered feedback on the print system from the faculty members that request­ed increased quotas, Burchett said. The changes made this school year resulted from those conversations. 
“The overwhelming response we got from faculty was they would love it if they no longer had to make these requests,” 


see QUOTA/page  5 


Graduate school application process  begins 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 

It’s that time of year again 
— application time. As the fall semester gets into full swing, Notre Dame seniors begin the process of applying to graduate schools across the country. 
The University provides a wide variety of resources for students to gain entry into their preferred gradu­ate program of study, Anita Rees, associate director of the Notre Dame Career Cen­ter, said. 
“The process hinges on what the person believes is best for them and for their long-term ambitions,” Rees said. “It is extremely impor­tant that students feel direct­ed in their career paths. First they should decide where they want to go, and then think about what’s required to get there.” 
For many seniors, this deci­sion was an easy one. 
Jeff O’Brien, a senior me­chanical engineering major, worked for GE’s Department of Research and Development last summer. Working for GE, O’Brien said he noticed every­one around him had a doctor­ate in the field. 
“I realized that I need to pursue a Ph.D. to do what I want to do,” O’Brien said. 
For students pursuing sci­ence or engineering degrees, a graduate degree is often the next step after completing un­dergraduate studies at Notre Dame, according to Rees. 
“Talk to your professors,” Rees said. “The faculty mem­bers in a student’s chosen field of study are the people best positioned to help that stu­dent determine which gradu­ate schools are best suited for his individual interests, and how he can make himself the most attractive candidate for those schools.” 
Daniel Graff, director of undergraduate studies in his­tory, said the mentoring pro 


see GRADUATE/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College hosts intercultural retreat page 5 u Viewpoint page 10 u 2009 graduate Emerson Spartz page 12 u Norte Dame Volleyball page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR PERSONAL INSPIRATIONAL PHRASE? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Natalie Burkhart  Anna Ulliman  Caroline Riccolo  Tori Scheid  Lindsay Ellis  Kat Sullivan  
senior Opus  first year Holy Cross Hall  first year McCandless  senior off campus  junior McCandless  sophomore Regina  
“All we have to do is decide  “You only live once.”  “If you ain’t first, you’re last.”  “Let’s RAGE! Oh na na na...”  “The happiest people don’t  “Just keep swimming.”  
what to do with  have the best of  
the time that is given to us.”  everything; they make the best of  
everything.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Law-breaking Gumby turns himself in 
SAN DIEGO — San Di­ego police say the man ac­cused of trying to rob a convenience store last week dressed as the famous clay­mation character turned himself in Tuesday, with an alleged accomplice. 
Detective Gary Hassen tells the San Diego Union-Tribune that Jacob Kiss and Jason Giramma voluntarily went to police headquarters. He says Kiss brought the Gumby suit and turned it in as well. 
Police say a man dressed in a Gumby costume and an accomplice went into a 7-Eleven in Rancho Penas­quitos on Labor Day and told 

LOCAL WEATHER 
the clerk it was a robbery. 
The clerk thought it was a prank and dismissed him. Both then left the store. 
Surveillance video shows the clumsy would-be robber struggling to keep the green suit on as he walked out the door. 
New York man sues White Castle 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — A New York man is suing White Castle, claiming the booths in one of its hamburger res­taurants are too small. 
Martin Kessman says in the federal lawsuit filed last week that he was embar­rassed in 2009 when he tried squeezing his 6-foot, 290-pound frame into the seating at a White Castle in Nanuet, N.Y. He says he slammed his knee into a metal post under the table and was in pain. 
The lawsuit claims the restaurant could not accom­modate a customer of Kess­man’s stature, in violation of the Americans With Disabil­ities Act. The suit seeks an unspecified financial judg­ment. 
Spokesman Jamie Rich­ardson at White Castle head­quarters in Columbus, Ohio, says the restaurant is being replaced and that the new one will have roomier seat­ing. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
There will be a talk in honor of Constitution Day today at 3:30 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. The lec­ture, titled “What Should We Commemorate,” featur­ing political science profes­sor Sotirios Barber will dis­cuss whether the founding act should be distinguished from its product, the Consti­tution. 
The Sheedy Award will be presented to history pro­fessor Thomas F.X. Noble today at 4 p.m. in the McK­enna Hall Auditorium. The Sheedy award was founded in 1970 in honor of Fr. Charles E. Sheedy, who served as dean of the College from 1951-69, and acknowl­edges a faculty member who has sustained excellence in research and instruction over a wide range of courses. 
Jane Doering, author of “Simone Weil and the Spec­ter of Self-Perpetuating Force” will give a lecture titled “Cosmopolitanism in Feminine Writing” today at 

5:15 p.m. in 117 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Classics Club is spon­soring a free screening of the movie “300” today at 
5:30 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. The movie will be fol­lowed by a lecture from clas­sics professor Christopher Baron. 
The music group Le Vent du Nord will perform to­night at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $8 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Emily Schrank  Andrew Owens  
Anna Boarini  Katie Heit  
Tori Roeck  Vicky Jacobsen  
Graphics  Scene  
Elisa DeCastro  Alexandra  
Photo  Kilpatrick  
Mackenzie Sain  Viewpoint  


TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
Amber Galik 










CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

STUDENT SENATE 



Senate works to improve communication, safety 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate worked on im­proving both student safety and its own communication at its meeting Wednesday evening. 
Senate passed a resolution proposing to install a Blue Light Phone at the intersection of Twyckenham Drive and Court­ney Lane. 
Off-campus senator Helen Cos­ta first recommended this idea at the Sept. 7 Senate meeting. Costa said she often felt uncomfortable walking between campus and her housing complex. 
“I definitely think we need more patrolling around the ar­eas by the soccer fields and ten­nis courts,” Costa said. “It’d be nice to have a camera or a phone, I’m always afraid someone will run out and jump you.” 
Community relations chair Er­ika Hansen said although there are Blue Light Phones right be­fore and right after the corner, the corner remains problematic. 
“It’s an uncomfortable corner, there’s not much light and there are tall bushes,” she said. “It’s definitely an area of concern considering how many people go back and forth from there all day and all week long.” 
Hansen said the electric and phone wires are already in place at the corner and so it will not be difficult for this resolution to be­come a reality. 
Welsh Family representative Marcy Kreimier also introduced the senators to student govern­ment’s Google site. 
The site, accessible through the senators’ and committee chairs’ Gmail accounts, enables the Senate to stay updated on each other’s projects even in the days between meetings. 
The main feature of the sight is a student government calendar, which contains all the upcoming events of the senators and com­mittees, Kreimier said. 
The site also contains links to each committee page. 
“Every committee has its own page where the chairs can list their pet projects, as well as up­coming events or any announce­ments,” Kreimier said. “On each project page you can make sug­gestions or comments directly on time something changes on the page or when someone com­ments on it,” she said. “It’ll be really helpful if you’re the one working on the project.” 



Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


Blogging 
continued from page 1 
of my writing to direct his readers there,” Kinser said. 
Kinser hopes to use her blog as a way to show her versatility in journalism and help launch her career after graduation. 
“I’ve worked in print media, done a television internship and with this I’m hoping that it shows that I can use the In­ternet,” she said. “Whatever it turns out to be, I’m definitely open. I’m just being really re­alistic about this.” 
While Internet users tend to be younger, Schmuhl said many bloggers are older and have worked in traditional me­dia outlets. 
Regardless of age, blogging provides opportunities the tra­ditional news source usually does not. 
“Blogging provides immedia­cy and the possibility of ampli­fication,” Schmuhl said. 

Contact anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 

it and it will go right to whoever is working on that project.” 
Campus Technology chair Yit­ing Zheng said the senators are also able to subscribe to differ­ent projects and pages. 
“If you subscribe to a page you’ll get a notification every 





College hosts intercultural retreat 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students, fac­ulty and other members of the community will participate in the Catalyst retreat, an op­portunity to learn more about the history of slavery and abo­litionism in the United States, over the College’s fall break. 
The retreat, sponsored by the Center for Women’s In­tercultural Leadership Office (CWIL), will be held Oct. 14 to 19 for students and from Oct. 14 to 16 for non-students. The retreat will depart from Saint Mary’s and travel to Cincin­nati. 
“This retreat is a chance for Saint Mary’s students to be exposed to different set­tings,” said Anabel Castañeda, a senior attending Catalyst. “It will be a great learning expe­rience.” 
Catalyst participants will visit the homes of Harriet Beecher Stowe, author of Un­cle Tom’s Cabin, John Rankin, an abolitionist and one of the first “conductors” on the Un­derground Railroad and John Parker, a slave, inventor and Underground Railroad sup­porter. 
The trip will conclude with a tour of the Underground Rail­road before returning to South Bend. 


Smith 
continued from page 1 
bor’s house. 
The son told police his 10-year-old brother was pres­

“This will be very interest-experience from participants ing because we know the back who attended in previous story and history of all of these years. people and events, but now we “I have friends who went will get to hear the detailed and they told me that the 
stories about  stories  you  
e ve r y o n e  hear while on  
and have our  Catalyst  will  
q u es t i o n s  “This retreat is a  make you cry  
a n s wered,” C a s t a ñ eda said. She said the retreat will feature  chance for Saint Mary’s students to be exposed to different settings. It will be a great learning experience.”  and change your perspec­tive,” Casta­ñeda said. “I’m most looking forward to  
a variety of  bonding  with  
activities, in- Anabel Castañeda  the other Saint  
cluding team  Senior  Mary’s  girls  

building ex­ercises, lec­tures, educa­tional films and meetings with representatives from each of the museums. 
Each part of the retreat is designed to provide partici­pants with an enriching and intercultural experience to take back to Saint Mary’s. 
“The CWIL office does the Catalyst retreat so that stu­dents who can’t go abroad, for whatever reason, still have an opportunity to have a life changing experience during their college years,” Castañe­da said. 
Although this will be Casta­ñeda’s first Catalyst retreat, she said she has heard posi­tive things about the five-day 
ent when Smith struck his wife. 
Police arrested Smith at the scene, and he posted $1,000 bond June 30. Court docu­ments state the judge ordered Smith to have no contact with his wife as a condition of his bond. 
Domestic battery is a Class and continuing 
to learn from 

our experienc­es after the retreat is over.” 
Castañeda said there are still some spots on the re­treat available if other stu­dents, faculty or community members are interested in attending. 
An application and itiner­ary of events can be found online at www.saintmarys. edu/cwil 
The cost for students is $50 and for non-students is $250. The cost includes travel, lodging and meals. For more information, contact the CWIL office. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
D felony. Ind-iana state law requires a felony charge for domestic battery if the act is committed in the presence of a child less than 16 years old. 
If convicted, Smith could serve up to three years in pris­on. His next hearing is set for Dec. 15. 


Quota 
continued from page 1 
Burchett said. “It was busy work, and since we could give students more quota automatically at the start of the year, that made a lot of sense to the faculty to do it that way.” 
Printing services are allocat­ed in the OIT budget, Burchett said. OIT had to decrease other expenses in order to account for the increased printing costs. 
“I don’t know for sure where we made up the difference,” he said. “I don’t think that the in­crease in printing costs came from one specific area. I think it probably came from a number of different areas. We didn’t cut any of our services back.” 
Burchett said if students print double-sided, their print quotas are effectively stretched. 
“If a student prints a single sheet of paper and they have one impression, it will cost them five cents of print quota,” Burchett said. “If they print on it double-sided, that sheet of paper will still cost them five cents of print quota. So, in theory, if a student did all their printing double-sided, the student could print as many as 3,000 pages.” 
OIT has received very little feedback on the changes so far, but the feedback received was positive, Burchett said. 
“The faculty appreciate that they no longer have to generate 



Graduate 
continued from page 1 
cess for graduate school can­didates is a process that starts with individual, informal con­versations. 
“The history department fo­cuses on individual mentoring to help students to discern if particular programs are right for what they are each inter­ested in, and if the are pas­sionate enough about these interests to devote further years of study to the subjects,” he said. 
Graff said his department focuses on mentoring stu­dents who have either shown pronounced interest in fur­ther academic study or have specifically expressed aspira­tions to postgraduate study. 
The Mendoza College of Business takes a similar ap­proach, by focusing on con­necting with the individual student and supporting his or her pursuit of postgradu­ate ambitions, Assistant Dean Samuel Gaglio said. 
“We start this reflection early. After the initial sopho­a list and send it to us,” he said. 
“Some of the students had questions about the monetary value of the print quota, but it seems like the webpage, the posters and the email that was sent out answered a lot of those questions.” 
Burchett said he thought it was important for students to consider the printing service a public good. 
“If all students help conserve on the printing, it’s good for the University,” Burchett said. “We’d like to remind students if you don’t need to print something, please consider not printing.” 
Sophomore Marissa Bulso said she was pleased with the increased quota because her classes require a lot of printing. 
“All the same, my quota seems to be disappearing at an alarm­ing rate,” Bulso said. “I’m al­ready down to $65. I suppose it seems low because last year we started at $100. I still wish printing assigned reading didn’t impact my quota so much.” 
Sophomore Vincent Burns said he’s not sure how the in­creased quota will affect him. 
“I didn’t come close to running out of paper last year, but that was probably because one of my professors got the class’s quota increased,” Burns said “Honest­ly, it will not make much of a dif­ference for me, since I generally leave stuff online.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
more orientation, we regu­larly meet with students to help them plan and have some direction to their studies at school,” he said. “If we have one objective in this College, it’s to ensure that a student never says ‘I wish I had known about that.’” 
Senior Ashley Ulrich said the College of Business focus­es on being in constant com­munication with its students. Ulrich, an accounting major, will attend Notre Dame next year to attain her masters in accounting. 
“Once you declare your major, you’re kept up to date about different presentations via email,” Ulrich said. 
For many students, the ap­plication process for gradu­ate studies programs bears a strong resemblance to the process of applying to college, Ulrich said. 
“The process reminded me of applying to college as a high school senior. I was used to doing it before,” she said. “It was stressful, but if you start early the process is man­ageable.” 


Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 




Anthony’s parents revisit loss on Dr. Phil 
AFL-CIO president visits ND 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla.  — Casey An­thony’s parents offered differ­ing views in a television inter­view with “Dr. Phil” host Phil McGraw about how they think their 2-year-old granddaugh­ter died in 2008. 
Cindy Anthony said she be­lieves that Caylee Anthony drowned, while her husband George Anthony was adamant that the toddler died by other means and that his daughter Casey Anthony had more in­tricate knowledge about how it happened. 
Anthony’s parents shared their opinions during the sec­ond part of an interview with McGraw that aired Wednes­day. They spoke with McGraw for a lengthy, taped interview over a two-day period recently. A portion of the interview de­voted to Casey Anthony’s mur­der trial will also be shown later this month. 
A message left by The Asso­ciated Press with one of Casey Anthony’s attorneys, Jose Baez, was not immediately re­turned. 
George Anthony said he thinks Casey may have ac­cidently drugged his grand­daughter and she tried to cov­er it up. Cindy Anthony said she does think Casey did know where her toddler was buried and may have had help placing her body there. 
“If Casey is watching this someday — Yes, I think she’s responsible for Caylee not be­ing here,” George Anthony said. 


Maine court hears 2004 Nader appeal 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Maine — Seven years after Ralph Nader’s failed presidential campaign, his le­gal team went before Maine’s highest court Wednesday in what could be his final bid to sue Democrats and others he claims conspired to try to keep him off the 2004 ballot in Maine and more than a dozen other states. 
An attorney for the consumer advocate asked the Maine Su­preme Judicial Court to rein­state his lawsuit accusing Dem­ocratic leaders of scheming to use the courts to sabotage him and his 2004 running mate, the late Peter Camejo. 
Attorney Oliver Hall told the supreme court that the judge who threw out the lawsuit in November shouldn’t have al­lowed defendants to invoke a Maine statute that targets mer­itless lawsuits aimed at silenc­ing activists. Hall said the First Amendment doesn’t protect Democrats from filing “false petitions.” 
Attorney Stephen Langsdorf, representing the Democratic Party, said the so-called Anti-SLAPP law was properly ap­plied and his clients did nothing wrong. 
Ultimately, Nader and Cam­ejo appeared on the ballot as independents in 34 states and collected only three-tenths of a percent of the nation’s popu­lar vote. Republican George 
W. Bush won the election, and many Democrats blamed Nader for siphoning away votes from Democrat John Kerry. Nader made another unsuccessful bid for the White House in 2008. 
Nader, who didn’t attend the hearing, said he just wants to present his evidence to a jury. 
“This is a case that is easily blocked on procedure, which of course allows the judges in Washington, D.C., and in Penn­sylvania to exercise their politi­cal discretion. They never had to discuss the merits, which is where we think we have a strong case,” Nader said from his office in Washington, D.C. 
The lawsuit ended up in Maine after the three-year statute of limitations expired on Nader’s 2007 lawsuit in the Court of Appeals for the Dis­trict of Columbia. Nader then brought his case to Washing­ton County Superior Court in Maine, which has a more gen­erous statute of limitations. 
Maine presents a different challenge for Nader because the anti-Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation statute was intended to prevent lawsuits from stifling activists from speaking out. 


By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 

Organized labor is far from irrelevant, especially for the young generation today, AFL­CIO President Richard Trum­ka said Wednesday night in a lecture on jobs and organized labor. 
“In the past the labor unions had left you down,” Trumka said. “We need to show young people that the labor unions can help.” 
A former unionized coal miner, Richard Trumka has been president of the AFL-CIO since 2009. The AFL-CIO is a federation of 56 national and international labor unions. 
Trumka came to Notre Dame for the 32nd Annual McBride Lecture sponsored by the Higgins Labor Studies Program, part of the Center for Social Concerns. 
He emphasized the impor­tance labor unions had at the beginning of the 20th century in developing the American middle class. 
“America reaped the re­wards of working harder and working smarter,” Trumka said. “It happened because one-third of the workforce was unionized.” 
He said with the current economic situation, more Americans than ever before are in poverty, and the need for jobs has never been high­er. 
“Today more than 25 mil­lion Americans are looking for work and can’t find it. More than 9.2 percent of the workforce is unemployed,” he said. 
Trumka supports President Obama’s job plan and said the country could greatly benefit from jobs that would come from rebuilding of infrastruc­ture like highways, schools and airports. 
“We are truly in danger of a double dip recession,” he said. 
In this strained economy, unions have been attacked since the 2010 election, he said, specifically mentioning the automobile industry in the Midwest. 
Trumka said he believes Obama saved the industry with his government bailout, and not only saved jobs, but also is currently creating new employment opportunities. 
He also detailed efforts at the state level, especially in Wisconsin, to outlaw collec­tive bargaining for public em­ployees. 
“Governors have been seek­ing to strip public workers of their right to bargain, trying to take away their ladder to the middle class, ” he said. 
Despite these setbacks, or­ganized labor led by the AFL­CIO is not giving up, Trumka said. 
“The American labor union is reorganizing and revital­izing itself,” he said. “We’re helping workers across the economy.” 
The AFL-CIO has recently focused on worker protection for new immigrants, domestic workers, like nannies, house­keepers and taxi drivers, he said. 
He also emphasized the importance of giving work­ing families a voice in politics with the newly formed Work­ing families Political Action Committee, a non-partisan organization operating on both the national and state levels. 
“We refuse to accept that social justice is unattain­able,” he said. 
Trumka directly addressed concerns relevant to the Notre Dame community, including his opposition to HEI Hotels. 
“I endorse efforts to con­vince the University to divest from HEI Hotels,” he said. 
He mentioned opposition to the company’s flipping of ho­tels by subcontracting jobs and cutting wages, and men­tioned a recent incident in a California HEI Hotel where management made Latina housekeepers present Social Security numbers after they complained about a heavy workload. 
Trumka said younger gen­erations, especially college graduates, need labor rights and help attaining livable wages more than ever. 
”Only 31 percent of young workers say they make enough to pay the bills,” he said, cit­ing an AFL-CIO survey. 
Rather than entering long­term jobs out of college, recent graduates enter what Trumka calls the “gig economy” of a series of short-term jobs. 
“Low wage, part time, no benefit, temporary work is the new norm,” he said. 
Trumka had some advice for students interested in sup­porting labor on their cam­puses. 
“Get involved. Become an activist … Learn about [la­bor] issues, read about the issues, talk to people about the issues,” he said. “Get in­volved in the labor movement because we are the biggest instruments of social change.” 

Contact abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 





Perry discusses faith, military 
Associated Press 
LYNCHBURG, Va. — Texas Gov. Rick Perry avoided conten­tious social issues in a speech Wednesday at the nation’s largest evangelical university, offering the youth a testimonial about his own path to Christian faith and praising the men and women of the military. 
The Republican presidential contender urged students at Liberty University to remember the legacies of service members killed in Iraq and Afghanistan. Without explicitly invoking his own presidential bid, he cast life’s choices as tributes to the mili­tary’s sacrifice in the years since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist at­tacks. 
“A great many of those who perished were approximately your age. Young men and women whose entire future was in front of them. They sacrificed their dreams to preserve yours,” a somber Perry said on the campus founded by the Rev. Jerry Falwell. 
“Because of what they gave, I simply ask you to make the most of the freedom that they sacri­ficed.” 
In a brief detour into politics, he urged the students to speak up for the kind of country and fu­ture they want. “Don’t leave it to a bunch of Washington politicians to tell you how to live your life,” he said. 
Perry’s 20-minute speech to a packed arena was warmly received. But it was unlikely to quiet building criticism from his GOP rivals over two cultural is­sues: his failed effort to require girls to be vaccinated against a sexually transmitted disease and a Texas law allowing illegal im­migrants to pay in-state tuition. Neither issue sits well with social conservatives, who hold great 


Senate rules could lead to partial FAA shutdown 



sway in the GOP nomination race. 
The GOP race has been domi­nated by economic concerns and criticism of President Barack Obama’s stewardship, pushing such cultural questions to the back burner. But in recent days, during a debate Monday and on the campaign trail, Perry’s rivals have started trying to exploit Perry’s perceived weaknesses on such issues to deflate his front-runner status in national polls. 
“It is time that Gov. Perry is known for what he really is: not a long-time conservative governor, but a big-government moderate who has made a career of sup­porting harmful policies during his tenure as governor,” former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsyl­vania said Tuesday. 
Specifically, Santorum, Rep. Michele Bachmann and other op­ponents for the Republican presi­dential nomination are singling Perry out for signing an executive order in 2007 requiring Texas girls to be vaccinated against the virus that can cause cervical cancer, an effort the Legislature rejected. 
On immigration, Perry has had to defend in-state tuition for ille­gal immigrants as well as his op­position to a wall along the U.S.­Mexico border. Both positions conflict with conservative GOP orthodoxy. 
Perry ignored those divisive is­sues in his remarks on this cam­pus in central Virginia. Instead, he introduced himself as a small-town native who went to college hoping to become a veterinarian but struggled with his studies. 
“Four semesters of organic chemistry made a pilot out of me,” the Air Force veteran joked. 
Perry also described his spiri­tual path as a young man, saying that at age 27 he was “lost, spiri­tually and emotionally,” drifting with no sense of purpose. 
“My faith journey is not as someone who turned to God be­cause I wanted to,” Perry said. “It was because I had nowhere else to turn.” 
He also brought a spiritual element to his recollections of the Sept. 11 attacks, noting that many of the students were just children on that day. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A single Re­publican senator’s objections plus a procedural snarl could force another partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Admin­istration at the end of this week, potentially putting thousands of workers out of jobs and depriv­ing the government of $30 mil­lion a day in uncollected airline ticket taxes. 
Senate rules don’t allow law­makers to shift from the bill they’re currently working on, a disaster aid bill, to a stop-gap funding measure for the FAA and highway programs without the consent of all lawmakers, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Wednesday. 
Sen. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., is refusing to give his consent. Coburn wants to change the highway portion of the stop­gap transportation bill that the House passed on Tuesday by eliminating a requirement that states spend 10 percent of their highway program dollars on “transportation enhancements” like bike and walking paths and projects aimed at drawing tour­ists. 
Without directly naming Co-burn, Reid effective accused the GOP senator of acting like a “dic­tator” by insisting the rest of the Senate accept his amendment. 
“It’s a pretty good way to leg­islate around here, be a dictator and say either take this or leave it,” Reid said. “I’m convinced his issue would lose overwhelm­ingly. But he’s holding this leg­islation up, and we are in a posi­tion now legislatively that I can’t get ... to this bill prior to Friday, when the FAA expires.” 
Republicans say the Senate could have passed the transpor­tation bill in time if Reid hadn’t brought up the disaster aid bill first. Because Coburn and sev­eral other GOP senators also op­posed bringing up that measure, Reid on Tuesday set in motion parliamentary procedures that would allow the Senate to pass the disaster aid bill by Saturday. 
Democrats have been ne­gotiating with Coburn, with Senate Minority leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., acting as a go-between. But Coburn said in speech on the Senate floor late Wednesday that he won’t back down with regard to trans­portation spending. He said he wouldn’t object if Reid split off the FAA portion of the bill and passed that separately before Friday. Since that would change the bill, the House would have to pass the bill as well before the deadline. 
A spokesman for Reid didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment on Coburn’s offer. 
Pointing to the nation’s 146,000 bridges that are struc­turally deficient, Coburn said it’s wrong to require states to spend money on projects that don’t en­hance safety when they could spend the money on repairing or replacing bridges. He released a list of 40 enhancement proj­ects that he described as low priorities, including $111,804 for a sanctuary for white (al­bino) squirrels in Kenton, Tenn. Gibson County, where Kenton is located, calls itself “The Home of the White Squirrel” because families of white squirrels live throughout the town. 
Among other projects on his list were $150,000 to build a critter crossing in Monkton, Vt., for migrating salamanders and other amphibians whose num­bers are dwindling in part due to roadway traffic, $250,000 build a twin dragons arch over the entrance to Los Angeles’ Chinatown neighborhood, and $500,000 to restore windows, doors, bricks and shutters in a Toledo, Ohio, lighthouse. 
However, most enhancement dollars go to more parochial projects like bike paths and walking trails, according to the Transportation Department. States, not the federal govern­ment, chose which enhancement projects they want to fund. 
“I would think we would rath­er repair these 146,000 bridg­es rather than redecorating a (road) side,” Coburn said. 
A partisan standoff between House Republicans and Sen­ate Democrats forced the FAA to partially shut down for two weeks this summer. Nearly 4,000 FAA workers were fur­loughed and more than 200 airport construction and safety projects halted, affecting tens of thousands of other workers. The government lost nearly $400 million in airline ticket taxes because airlines no longer had authority to collect the fees. 
Without congressional action, the FAA would face another par­tial shutdown on Friday, when its current operating authority expires. Authority for highway, transit and rail programs, as well as the federal gasoline and diesel taxes that provide the largest share of funding for the programs, are due to expire on Sept. 30. 
Long-term funding for the FAA expired in 2007 and high­way programs in 2009. Both programs have been continued through a series of short-term extensions. The latest bill would be FAA’s 21st extension and the highway program’s eighth. 





Republicans claim Weiner seat in NY 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Savoring the unlikeliest of victories, Re­publicans called their triumph in a New York City congressio­nal race a repudiation of Presi­dent Barack Obama’s policies on the economy and Israel on Wednesday as public and pri­vate polls showed his approval ratings plummeting in a district he carried handily in 2008. 
“We’re not going to sugarcoat it, it was a tough loss,” conced­ed the House Democratic Cam­paign Committee. Yet party officials and the White House insisted the race was not a ref­erendum on the president as he seeks re-election with the economy stagnant and unem­ployment stuck at 9.1 percent. 
In New York, Rep.-elect Bob Turner, outpolled state As­semblyman David Weprin in a light-turnout election. He will replace former Democratic Rep. Anthony Weiner, who resigned in disgrace earlier this year in a sexting scandal. Represented by Democrats since the 1920s, the district includes portions of Brooklyn and Queens, is home to three times as many regis­tered Democrats as Republi­cans and is nearly 40 percent Jewish. 
Those district demographics customarily spell victory for a Democrat, but in a smattering of interviews on the day after the election, former Obama supporters gave voice to their changed feelings. 
“Unfortunately the Demo­crats have let us down lately,” said Anne Lenihan, 65, of Queens, who said she support­ed the president in 2008. “I’m disappointed in the Democrats and we need change.” 
Mark Russell, 37, a Democrat, said he didn’t vote because he could not get excited about sup­porting Weprin, despite numer­ous calls from the Democratic get-out-the-vote operation. 
“In 2008 I voted for Obama, and I made a big mistake then,” said Kelly Redmond, 47, who cited the economy and the pres­ident’s policy toward Israel as reasons for supporting Turner. 
Concerns that surfaced in the race included an administra­tion policy in the Mideast that some Jews find not sufficiently supportive of Israel. Obama’s urging of Israel to halt housing settlements in the West Bank has been a point of controversy in the district. Also, Weprin drew criticism for his vote in the New York Assembly in fa­vor of a measure legalizing gay marriage, legislation generally unpopular with Orthodox Jews. 
Among political leaders in both parties, reaction to the results fell along lines that are well-established for a special election in which a House seat changes hands from one party to the other. The winning side almost always claims a broad national significance, while the losers point instead to local concerns. 
Speaker John Boehner is­sued a statement saying “New Yorkers have delivered a strong warning to the Democrats who control the levers of power in our federal government. It’s time to scrap the failed ‘stimu­lus’ agenda and the misguided policies on Israel and focus on getting America back to creat­ing jobs again.” 
“An unpopular President Obama is now a liability for Democrats nationwide in a 2012 election that is a referen­dum on his economic policies,’ contended Texas Rep. Pete Ses­sions, head of the National Re­publican National Congressio­nal Committee . 
Democrats dissented. 
“We do not view it that way,” said White House press sec­retary Jay Carney, who told a reporter he risked looking fool­ish if he tried to predict the outcome of the 2012 elections based on the New York race. 
Noting GOP claims about the effect of the economy on the outcome, the Democrats’ House campaign committee said in a memo that the Republicans had not run the campaign based on Obama’s economic policies. “For example, Tea Party Re­publican Bob Turner played on New Yorkers’ fear and anxi­ety around the 10th anniver­sary of the 9/11 attacks,” the memo said. “Turner’s TV ads and mailers included images of the Twin Towers burning and the so-called Ground Zero mosque.” 
Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the Demo­cratic National Committee chairwoman, likewise said the race had been run under “un­usual circumstances,” and she asserted the public mood will change “when we begin to fo­cus on jobs rather than spend­ing cuts.” 
Sen. Chuck Schumer, who represented the district when he was in the House, said he had “never heard (the seat) re­ferred to as a bellwether.” He added that the 55 percent of the vote Obama captured there in 2008 was his worst showing in any part of New York City. Obama won 53 percent of the vote nationwide. 
Public and private polling during the New York campaign suggested Obama’s standing in the district has deteriorated among voters who chose him in 2008. In a survey released less than a week ago, Sienna put his approval rating at 43 percent among likely voters and 29 per­cent among independents. 



New NASA rocket costs billions 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — To soar far away from Earth and even on to Mars, NASA has dreamed up the world’s most powerful rocket, a behemoth that borrows from the workhorse liquid-fuel rock­ets that sent Apollo missions into space four decades ago. 
But with a price tag that some estimate at $35 billion, it may not fly with Congress. 
NASA Administrator Charles Bolden and several members of Congress on Wednesday unveiled the Obama administration’s much-delayed general plans for its rocket design, called the Space Launch System. The multibillion­dollar program would carry astronauts in a capsule on top, and the first mission would be 10 years off if all goes as planned. Unmanned test launches are ex­pected from Cape Canaveral, Fla., in six years. 
Calling it the “largest, most powerful rocket built,” NASA’s exploration and operations chief, William Gerstenmaier, said the rocket will be tough to construct. But when NASA does it, “we’ll have a capability to go beyond low-Earth orbit like no other na­tion does here on Earth,” he said in a telephone briefing Wednes­day. 
The rocket resembles those NASA relied on before the space shuttle, but even its smallest ear­ly prototype will have 10 percent more thrust than the Saturn V that propelled Apollo astronauts to the moon. When it is built to its fuller size, it will be 20 per­cent more powerful, Gerstenma­ier said. That bigger version will have the horsepower of 208,000 Corvette engines. 
NASA is trying to remain flex­ible on where it wants to go and when. The space agency is aim­ing for a nearby asteroid around 2025 and then on to Mars in the 2030s. There could even be a short hop to the moon, but not as a main goal. All those targets re­quire lots of brute force to escape Earth’s orbit, something astro­nauts have not done since 1972. 
The far-from-finalized price tag may be too steep given federal budget constraints. 
“Will it be tough times going forward? Of course it is,” Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., said in a separate news conference. “We are in an era in which we have to do more with less — all across the board 
— and the competition for the available dollars will be fierce. But what we have here now are the realistic costs” verified by in­dependent experts. 
Although five senators of both parties who are leaders in science issues praised the plan in a joint press release, outside experts are skeptical that Congress will agree to such a big spending project. 
“In the current political envi­ronment, new spending is prob­ably the most taboo thing in politics,” said Stan Collender, a former Democratic congressional budget analyst. He put the odds of this getting congressional ap­proval at “no better than 50-50 this year. There are going to be a lot of questions asking what kind of commitment we’re going to be making here. You can find yourself with a rocket that no one wants to fire.” 
Nelson puts the cost of the pro­gram at about $18 billion over the next five years. But that es­timate is mostly for development and design through the first test flight in 2017, and doesn’t include production of later rockets, Ger­stenmaier said. Gerstenmaier wouldn’t give a total estimate, but it is almost double that, accord­ing to senior administration offi­cials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to make the an­nouncement. 
University of Texas engineering professor Hans Mark, a former NASA deputy chief and frequent critic of recent space agency plans, said money and where the rocket is going are likely to be big­ger problems than technical en­gineering issues. He said that in some ways, it sounds like NASA is melding the best of space shuttle and Apollo technologies. 
The rocket is similar to Apollo not only in size and shape, but in its reliance on liquid fuel. The winged, reusable and recently re­tired space shuttles sat on top of a giant liquid fuel tank, but relied heavily on twin solid rocket boost­ers to get off the ground. 
NASA figures it will be building and launching about one rocket a year for about 15 years or more in the 2020s and 2030s, according to the senior officials. The idea is to launch its first unmanned test flight in 2017 and send up the first crew in 2021, followed by the as­teroid and Mars missions. 
At first, the 320-foot-tall rock­ets will be able to carry 77 to 110 tons, which would include the six-person Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle capsule and more. The crew capsule, which is now being built, has at least twice as much space as the old Apollo capsules, which could only fit three astro­nauts, said NASA spokesman Mi­chael Braukus. 
Eventually the rocket will grow to 400 feet tall, weigh 3,250 tons and be able to carry another 143 tons into space, maybe even 165 tons, the officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said. By comparison, the long-dormant Saturn V booster that sent men to the moon was able to lift 130 tons. 





INSIDE COLUMN 


Italian girl problems 
Every once and a while, you have to do something that you absolutely dread. For me, that day came last week. My grandparents were in South Bend visiting my great aunt and my Nonie (grandma in Ital-Anna Boarini ian) wanted to cook me dinner. News Writer Being the Italian girl that I am, I was envisioning her homemade sauce and meatballs, gnocchi and a warm, fresh, crusty loaf of Italian bread. Instead, I got the only food I really hate — polenta. 
Polenta is disgusting. It’s the Italian version of cornmeal mush — so basi­cally, it’s water and cornmeal boiled together. My Nonie and the rest of the women in my family serve polenta with stewed chicken and sausage in a red sauce.  My family is northern Italian and this is a staple food of the region. However, I don’t care. It is the most horrible food ever. 
When I hear it’s on the menu at home, I find somewhere I have to be for the better part of the evening. Most foods taste better when you add melted cheese — polenta does not. The worst part of this whole food fiasco known as polenta is my Nonie thinks it is one of my favorite foods. She is under the impression that I love polenta when really I would rather never see that yellow mush on my plate ever again. 
So last week when I got to my aunt’s house, I was dreading walking in. I actually had to give myself a pep talk to get through dinner. “You can do this, Anna. You’ve eaten fish with the heads on, you’ve eaten elk, you even ate a cricket at camp when you were 
11. You can eat polenta for dinner.”  I know it’s crazy to think I was talking to myself about how I could eat din­ner, but it’s true, I actually did. 
Anyway, I got to my aunt’s and the dreaded polenta was on the stove. My Nonie had me help her finish dinner and all I was thinking was “I hope this stuff burns.” Then came the dreaded moment when dinner was served. My plate was filled with polenta; I got the largest serving at the table. And my Nonie was so proud that she was able to feed me this food that I loathe. I sat down, stared at my plate, took a deep breath and started to eat. 
Oh, I still hate polenta. It’s not like I took my first bite and then realized I had been misjudging this food my whole life and it had become some amazing new food adventure. False. It’s still really gross. But I ate it any­way. 
Why, you ask? Why did I continue to eat every last bite of the most disgusting, slimy, tasteless food Italy has ever produced? There’s a really simple answer. I ate my least favorite food because I love my Nonie. 
Italian women take pride in their food and they really do cook with love. I ate the polenta because if I didn’t, it would hurt my Nonie. She and my mom taught me how to cook. She is always there for me when I need her. So basically, even though polenta is horrible, I’ll still put up with it — just because my Nonie made it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Anna Boarini at      aboarini@nd.edu 


It doesn’t seem fair, but it is perfect justice 
Raise your hand if on either of the last two Saturdays you thought to yourself, “Oh, how nice for Skip Holtz to come back to his alma mater and take home a win!” or, “Good for Michi­gan! What a great feeling to stage such a big comeback!” 
Before you turn the page Kate Barrett in disgust, I can assure you that Faithpoint I most certainly did not think ei­ther of those things, or anything even remotely close to them. I doubt that Coach Kelly encourages his players to ponder too deeply the feelings of their opponents across the line of scrim­mage as they prepare to plow into them. 
Outside the field of competition, where we all share more in common than anything that divides us, our at­titudes ought to be more generous. 
Across the planet, the truth runs con­sistently and firmly through the midst of creeds, cultures and religions other­wise widely diverse, that we ought to rejoice with sincere generosity in the good fortunes of others. And we proba­bly do — to an extent. I imagine we all like to think of ourselves as people who live generously: we share with others, just like our moms taught us; we offer our time and our talents as volunteers; we donate to causes and organizations whose values we hold dear. 
But how kind-hearted are we when generosity collides with justice … which it inevitably will? 
Consider the gospel story for this Sunday, which should have you squirm­ing in your seats at Mass this weekend. We all know this parable and it bothers us each time we hear it, because we feel a fundamental resistance to its message. Jesus tells the story of a landowner who hires laborers to work in his vineyard. In fact, he goes out at dawn and then four more times that day, offering work to those who cannot seem to get hired anywhere else. 
You remember the ending: at the close of the day, the landowner pays a full day’s wage to the workers who only put in an hour, giving high hopes to those who had been at it since dawn that they would take home more money than they had seen in quite a while. When it be­comes clear that the landowner intended to pay everyone one full day’s wage, the grumbling begins. “Did you not agree with me for the usual daily wage?” re­sponds the landowner. “Are you envious because I am generous?” 
Can’t you just picture the disciples listening to Jesus tell this parable, then politely stumbling and stammering to agree that yes, indeed the last shall be first and the first shall be last, while each silently protesting, “Is he nuts?” 
Generosity just crashed into justice in that gospel, and justice lost yardage — or at least that’s true for our human un­derstanding of what’s just. “It’s not fair!” we cry. But as we will pray together to God in our opening prayer on Sunday, “the perfection of justice is found in your love.” And if we believe that God is God and we’re not, we will spend less time trying to argue our way around the logic of this most lavish landowner and more time shoring up the foundations of true generosity in our own lives. We cer­tainly have many opportunities to prac­tice! Think of all the times in a day or a week when we are invited to share in another’s good fortune: the guy who sits next to you in calculus gets an A on his test; your roommate gets the summer internship she’s been hoping for; that person down the hall who always used to look sort of dumpy clearly did P90X for the entire summer and now looks just as awesome as those aggravating ads claim. Are we really, truly pleased for them? Can we call upon the generos­ity of spirit to rejoice sincerely with them or does a tiny voice of resentment whis­per to us, “OK, how did he know exact­ly what to study when I spent all those hours on the material and got a B?” 
God challenges us to turn our lives and our assumptions upside down in so many ways. We probably shouldn’t be surprised that his demand for our lavish generosity of heart stretches every fiber of our sometimes-selfish beings. 
And what of Michigan State this weekend? I suppose we recognize these truths on the football field, or any arena of competition, as good sportsmanship. Just as we hope and even expect our team to stretch themselves to the limits of their abilities in the game, may our lives and attitudes reflect our ongoing attempts to stretch ourselves toward God’s extravagant examples of generos­ity and compassion. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Em­maus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Implications of high poverty rates 
Your recent coverage of increasing  America cannot afford to wait for the  and enables more families to negotiate  
poverty rates in the U.S. (“Poverty rate  engines of economic growth to lift the  favorable mortgage extensions and stay  
increases in 2010”) focused narrowly  poor. We need to act swiftly to expand  in their homes.  
on whether the economic resources  access to medical programs that will  If we do not insist upon such actions,  
of American families and individuals  ensure that every pregnant woman  Americans can expect to read headlines  
should be measured by their an- receives prenatal care thereby lowering  about increased rates of infant mortal­ 
nual income or by their consumption  the chances that their children will suf­ ity, higher numbers of low-birth weight  
expenditures.  I fear that your readers  fer the lifelong consequences of physical  babies, epidemics of asthma and dia­ 
will lose the forest for the trees in this  and cognitive developmental delays.  betes, rising numbers foreclosures and  
debate.  We need to invest now in programs  of families living in homeless shelters,  
Rather than argue which concept  that provide every poor child with a  a widening of the achievement gap and  
best measures the material deprivation  high-quality early childhood education  higher dropout rates, exacerbation of  
of those at the bottom of the income  to preempt the achievement gap. We  racial tensions, rising crime rates and  
distribution, your coverage should  need to make sure that all children re- even greater rates of incarceration.  
highlight the broader implications of  ceive the medical care they need so that  These are the realities of a higher pov­ 
falling incomes for millions of Ameri­ they can attend school every day ready  erty rate that readers should contem­ 
cans, specifically the loss of health in­ to learn.  plate and that your article should have  
surance care, forced residential moves,  We need expanded income supports  revealed.  
abandoned educational plans for lack  so that no teenager should ever have to  
of tuition, and the psychological harm,  choose between staying in school and  Jennifer Warlick  
loss of work motivation, skill and self- supplementing family income. We need  Director, Poverty Studies Minor  
confidence that frequently accompa­ to enact legislation that protects low- Associate Professor of Economics  
nies unemployment.  income families from predatory lending  Sept. 14  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“To play it safe is not to play.” 
Robert Altman 
U.S. movie director, producer and screenwriter 

WEEKLY POLL 
How often do you go onto 
The Observer’s website? 
Every day Once a week Once a month Never 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndscmobserver.com 



Thursday, September 15, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 



Three, two, one: your college days are done 
A universal axiom contends that students leave college with an equal amount of wisdom in proportion to the efforts they exerted while on campus. Consequently, it would follow that a col­legiate weekend beer binge-drinker will at Gary Caruso best become a mana­gerial dirty martini Capitol guzzler while the Comments geeky, library-loving homework nerd at worst will cure cancer. 
Fortunately, such fallacy is as obvi­ous each year as another lost wide-eyed freshman aimlessly wandering about the quads on the first day of classes. Yet, one maxim does ring true: Each of us, to better appreciate and relish our campus experiences, can consciously slow time during our academic years.
 Ask any of last spring’s newly mint­ed alumni, and nearly all of them will admit their senior year and graduation day pounced upon them with unbeliev­able speed. Many chide themselves for their dalliances that prevented them from most appreciating their surround­ings. Regardless of how often you log Facebook entries or blog updates to document your fun, your college years zoom forgetfully along unless you pur­posefully pause to drink in every mo­ment.
 Savoring a semester can ultimately seem like the seven-year college stint Ryan Reynolds portrayed in the mov­ie, National Lampoon’s Van Wilder. In fact, during my second semester of se­nior year, I slowed time through such a technique. Even now, at class reunions held light years from our waning days at Notre Dame, I still vividly remember moments from those final four months of college that my dormitory classmates cannot recall. 
The best advice anyone can offer stu­dents during their first two weeks of an autumn semester is to prolong that short-lived, exaggerated openness they briefly offer to others. Typically, after the beginning two weeks of a new semester, many limit their offers of BFF-dom in fa­vor of a comfort zone that hunkers down with a few friends. Ultimately, such con­solation gives birth to stagnant semes­ter routines. Rather, constantly purvey new friendships throughout the corners of campus.
 The annals of Notre Dame history are cluttered with many a depressed gradu­ate who left our Catholic Disneyland cocoon unprepared for the transition into the real world. Avoid such perverse future trauma by refusing to limit your eagerness to initiate new friendships beyond the start of each school year. While grasping personal moments of fun — as well as anguish — continu­ally make new friendships throughout the entire semester to best realize your unique moment in time.
 In many ways, Notre Dame mimics the boarding school setting of the epic film “Dead Poets Society” in which Rob­in Williams encourages his students, “Carpe diem. Seize the day, boys. Make your lives extraordinary.” Traditionally, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Arts and Letters students: don’t be discouraged 
Stress. High pressure. Competition. 
The Observer editorial used these words last Friday to describe the atmosphere on campus as students work to land an internship or job. But those three words also describe the world confronting job seekers at every school — and job seekers of almost any age, experience level or profession. 
The good news — the don’t-be-discouraged news — is that within the first year after graduation, a full 98 percent of Notre Dame’s newest alumni class will be gainfully employed, according to Career Center statistics. 
Even in the current economic climate, 97 percent of members of the College of Arts and Letters Class of 2010 are gainfully employed in full-time work (36%), in graduate or professional school (35%), in a service program (21%) or in the mili­tary/pursuing “other plans” (5%). 
Only 3 percent, when surveyed one year out, reported that they were still seek­ing employment compared to 2 percent reported by the Mendoza College of Busi­ness undergraduate Class of 2010 and similar figures reported by new alumni of Notre Dame’s other colleges. What these numbers tell is that a Notre Dame liberal arts education develops the personal, analytic and communication skills that pre­pare you to succeed right away in today’s economy, let alone in the long term. 
Does this mean students need to work to discern the right post-graduation path and decide what the best first step might be on that path? Of course. In fact, it takes the same passion, drive and follow-through that it took to get to Notre Dame, that it takes to graduate from Notre Dame and that it will take to be successful after college. 
Should the University do more? Again, of course. We are continually striving to find new ways to assist students. But the paper’s editorial last week did not men­tion many excellent programs that help students prepare for life after Notre Dame. 
Among them are the Arts and Letters Summer Internship program, the Arts and Letters Boot Camp (held in Chicago during spring break each year), and the annual “What’s Next? Week” (set for Sept. 26-29 this year) — all designed just for Arts and Letters students. 
In addition to a career fair on Sept. 29, the latter includes events to help Arts and Letters students with everything from interviewing and networking skills to preparing for graduate school, applying to service programs and finding employ­ment in the business world. 
Don’t stay home. 

JoAnn DellaNeva 
Associate Dean, Undergraduate Studies College of Arts and Letters Sept. 14 
Lee Svete 

Director, Career Center University of Notre Dame Sept. 14 
our campus community atmosphere fos­ters a grace of civility and standard of tolerance. Administrators seek to high­light the importance of building real, open relationships while passionately seeking the truth.
 In Horace’s Latin poem, the phrase used in the movie originates from part of the longer passage: “Carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero — Seize the day, putting as little trust as possible in the future.” At Notre Dame, however, your “carpe diem” should strive to make each living second hauntingly and ex­traordinarily memorable to better your future. Focus on your intimate laughter and torment while hearing the whispers from the phantoms of ages long gone who lived similar campus experiences.
 Throughout scores of Notre Dame semesters, similar young faces have repeated like-minded rituals. Teenag­ers just like you helped settle the Uni­versity’s frontier site with Fr. Sorin. A generation later, others your same age avoided the Civil War ravages while studying alongside Union Army General William Tecumseh Sherman’s children. Students — who paradoxically could have just as easily been you but for the random birth of their generations — rode with the Four Horsemen during Rockne’s days, dropped out of school to die defending our nation in World War II and barely graduated before conscribed to ultimately die in Vietnam during a war nobody thought was worth a damn. Their blood is in the bricks around you.
 These precious first few days of each fall semester are full of so much prom­ise and optimism. Students can make new lifetime friendships, live indepen­dently and cheer the football team on­ward to victory while learning limitless classroom facts along with the limita­tions on drinking beer at the bars. This year’s freshmen will learn — like all of us before them and all of those who will follow — that each living day on earth offers the same opportunities available to them during their first day on cam­pus. 
If life mimicked fiction, we could re­live our last eight minutes to correct our mistakes like the premise behind the recent movie, “Source Code.” Unfortu­nately, we are not trapped within our own source codes doomed to repeat our last eight minutes, nor are we forever attending college like the fictional Van Wilder. The opening of each school year is a snapshot of life that only occurs four times during an undergraduate career. Grab it. Breathe it. Scrutinize it and burn it into your minds as the count­down continues to the end of your col­lege days. But do not blink. The clock is already ticking. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Let them eat bread 
Tonight, as I took a bite of my grilled cheese at South Dining Hall, I witnessed a dining hall monitor reprimanding a young woman for attempting to wrap up several pieces of bread to take with her after finishing her meal. After the young woman apologized to the monitor and promised she wouldn’t take the food with her, the monitor continued to watch her for the rest of her dinner. Then, instead of taking the bread with her, the woman was forced to throw it away. 
For a university so focused on sustainability, this seems like the wrong ap­proach to take. Clearly the woman was going to eat the food eventually, and since it was only about 5:30 p.m. when this took place, it seems likely it would be con­sumed later on as a snack.  Call me crazy, but wouldn’t it be better for someone to eat the food than for it to be thrown away? I understand that the dining halls have a “eat all you want while here, but only take one item with you” policy, but maybe this should be re-examined. After all, we are paying a large amount of money for 14 meals a week, regardless of how many meals we actually use. Most people I know use only 11 or 12 of those meals. 
Students should not be made to feel like criminals for desiring a late night snack. As students, we are often up late studying and get hungry. I would like to see a more relaxed attitude toward bringing food out of the dining halls. As it stands now, I fear backpack checks and strip searches are right around the corner. 
Samantha Grissom 
senior Pangborn Hall Sept. 14 


By MARISSA FROBES 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Notre Dame alumnus Em­erson Spartz created the No. 1 Harry Potter fansite, MuggleNet, at the age of 12. He later went on to graduate from Notre Dame in 2009 with a degree in man­agement from Mendoza, and is now the CEO of Chicago-based Spartz Media. 
But the success of his first website inspired him to create other online communities. 
Spartz Media is a hosting a tailgate before the Michigan State game this Saturday in cel­ebration of reaching over 100 million monthly page views on their 13 websites and over half a million subscribers on their YouTube channel. Join Spartz Media in the Joyce Handicap Lot before the game to learn more about the company. 
The Observer spoke with Spartz about the evolution of his online media corporation, and why its optimistic, forward-thinking model is one that will last. 
Marissa Frobes: You began MuggleNet at age 12, and it has since evolved into the No. 1 Har­ry Potter fansite. From there, how did you begin to expand the brand and ultimately create Spartz Media? 
Emerson Spartz: MuggleNet at its peak was tracking about 47 million monthly page views, and website traffic has been strong for years. My fiancé at the time, Gaby Montero, and I, graduated in 2009, and not a whole lot of people had jobs who graduated in that year. FML had just exploded in popularity a few months before, and Gaby was hell-bent on creating an FML-type website. We came up with the idea for GivesMeHope (GMH) 
— the basic concept being that while FML is a celebration of the funny but cynical way of look­ing at the world, for every story about something bad happen­ing there’s got to be an amaz­ing story about something good happening as well. 
We decided to create the web­site and it exploded virally when we launched it. We were the No. 1 story on Digg.com over a 24­hour period, we were written up in Esquire, The Wall Street Journal and USA Today. With all that media attention we re­ceived hundreds of thousands of visitors. We never looked back. 
GMH was so successful, we realized the platform we’d been building would be applicable to other website ideas as well. We noticed, for example, that the love stories on GMH were by far the most popular on the website. So we thought there would be probably be a lot of people who would enjoy a website devoted to short love stories. Love Gives Me Hope eventually received more traffic than GMH. Based on that success, we kept coming up with new ideas for websites that would work for that model. 
Now, we have 13 websites and last month we hit 112 million page views. It really puts us in an elite category of online me­dia. There are not very many companies who reach over 100 million page views. 
MF: How often are you going to be creating new brands? 
ES: One website per month. 
MF: What is your favorite Spartz Media brand? 
ES: GMH. GMH really does give me hope. When we were talking about the idea, I really was not sure of myself. There’s never been a high-traffic web­site that focused on accentuat­ing the positive things in life. Gives Me Hope proved that peo­ple really are interested in cel­ebrating the beauty of the natu­ral world around us, and human achievement. Sometimes things just have to be packaged right. There are a lot of websites try­ing to do what GMH does, and they’ve failed. 
With GMH, we’ve received thousands of letters from people saying that the stories on the website kept them from drop­ping out of school, saved their marriage or even brought them back from the verge of suicide. I get chills when I read some of the stories because they’re so touching and so powerfully emotional. 
MF: Spartz Media has pub­lished a GMH book, as well as two MuggleNet books. Are you looking to keep extending the brand in other ways that go be­yond the internet? 
ES: Eventually we will start publishing more books, but right now there’s a greater ben­efit to us focusing on online me­dia. We’re just playing to our strengths. We have five million followers on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. 
MF: How has social media enhanced Spartz in a tangible way? 
ES: The reason why I’m such a big believer in social media is because [it] has an unparalleled ability to reach large numbers of people. In other forms of media, you spend a lot of money, you get an advertisement in a newspa­per or in front of a TV show and people really don’t have a choice whether or not to respond to your ad. But with social media, you are graded based on how good your ad is. You can’t do that in the off-line world. 
MF: How has Notre Dame played a role in your career and life in total up to this point? 
ES: The majority of the com­pany’s employees are Domers, and that’s not a coincidence. ND breeds the best and brightest, so for us it would be unthinkable to recruit talent from elsewhere. When I was at ND, I was making a list of people I would want to work with again down the road who’d given me opportunities. 
That’s been a source of tal­ent for us, just utilizing our networks at ND. It’s something we intend to continue to do as much as possible as we grow. Our model has afforded us the kind of hiring flexibility other companies don’t have — other companies hire for experience, and we hire for talent. 
I compare it to “The Chicago Tribune,” which has about 1,000 employees and about 100 mil­lion page views. Their model makes it difficult for them to compete with us. They spend $2,500 on average to produce a single article for a paper, and we pay equivalently a couple pen­nies. 
The experience that people would gain at the “Tribune,” much of that would not be use­ful to us. We’d rather have fresh-thinking, young, energetic, talented minds who aren’t en­cumbered with old ideas about how media works. 
We create the tools that en­able millions of people who were formerly passive consumers of content into active producers of content. I get really excited about the potential we have to change the world. 
Look at the amount of time Americans spend watching TV every year — 200 billion hours versus the total time it took to create Wikipedia of 100 million hours. If we could shave off even a tiny fraction of a percent of that wasted time watching TV or doing unproductive things and channel the creative energy into producing useful things for society, then we’ll change the world. 
Our websites educate people, they make people laugh and they inspire people. And there’s no limit to the opportunities that we have as we continue to refine this model and make it easier and easier for people to jump the divide from consuming to producing content. 
MF: Do you envision yourself as the CEO of Spartz Media in­definitely? 
ES: This is my life. I’m hav­ing the time of my life right now. This is the entrepreneurial sweet spot — having revenues, a hardworking team of talented coworkers and having an audi­ence of 8.5 million unique visi­tors to promote your sites. This is as good as it gets for me. 
Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 




By MARISSA FROBES 
Assistant Scene Editor 
OMG-Facts 
Launched in February of 2010, OMG-Facts is one of the most successful brands of Spartz Media. The brand’s vid­eo show boasts over 500,000 subscribers on YouTube, and the eight new facts the web­site rolls out each day are simply addicting. Who doesn’t want to know, for instance, that “’Hippopotomonstroses­quippedaliophobia’ is the fear of long words”? 
GivesMeHope 
Its tagline is “FML for Op­timists.” Beginning June of 2009, GMH delivers short an­ecdotes of love, kindness and friendship that are cute but somehow not nauseating. A corresponding book, “Gives Me Hope: 127 Most Inspiring Bite-Sized Stories” was published in November 2010. 
MuggleNet 
Any true Potter fan, which describes a hefty chunk of gen­eration Y, knows MuggleNet is the world’s No. 1 Harry Potter site. Twelve-year-old Spartz founded the site in 1999, and it has since published two books, one of which is a “New York Times” Bestseller. Perhaps the success of the site in the world of Potter can be best ex­emplified by the fact that J.K. Rowling herself called Spartz in 2005 to offer him a face-to­face interview in Scotland. 
Memestache 
Memestache launched in July 2011. Trust Spartz Me­dia when they say, “it’ll grow on you.” How does it work? 
Someone finds a picture, adds a comedic caption and then the image begins to circulate with different, equally absurd captions. Popular memes like “Hipster Kitty” or “Annoying Facebook Girl” are surefire homework prevention meth­ods. 
Rich World Problems 
“There are real problems … and then there are rich world problems.” 

Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 
Poker Tournament Legends Nightclub Midnight Free with ID 

How’s your poker face? Head to Legends Thursday night for the first poker tournament of the year to test it out against other Domers. Try your hand at some classic card games and see if your skills can take you to the top of the pack. Who knows, this first tournament might be your stepping-stone to the World Series of Poker. 
No. 16 Men’s Soccer vs. Michigan Alumni Stadium 
7:30 p.m. Free 

The Fighting Irish are looking to avenge the football team’s loss to Michigan on the soccer field Fri­day, so head out to Alumni Field to support them. Additionally, for all seniors, it’s Senior Apprecia­tion Night, so be sure to get your free pizza, free raffles and special seating. 
Rep Your Res Legends Nightclub Midnight Free with ID 
Notre Dame dorm life is a very unique institution of our great University.  Rivalries are created, lines aren’t crossed and lasting friendships are made down the hall. What better way to show pride for your dorm than to rep your dorm, mascot and colors with your friends at Legends after the football game. 
The Way Debartolo Performing Arts Cen­ter — Browning Cinema Noon and 3 p.m. Sold out 
The Nanovic Institute for Euro­pean Studies will put on a produc­tion of this 2010 movie starring Martin Sheen and Emilio Estevez, who will also be present at the screening. Even if you didn’t get tickets, you might be able to catch a glimpse of the father-son duo if you hang out by DPAC long enough. 




By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 

Most of the time, when students see actors at Notre Dame, it’s only on screen. That won’t be the case Sunday, when es­teemed actors Martin Sheen and Emilio Estevez will make an appearance at the screenings of the film “The Way” at De-Bartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Written and directed by Estevez and starring himself and Sheen, “The Way” tells the story of Tom (Sheen), a father who travels to France to collect the re­mains of his son (Estevez) after he dies while walking the Camino de Santiago, a famous pilgrimage route through north­ern Spain. Tom decides to walk the route himself, grappling with his grief and encountering strangers of diverse back­grounds along the way. 
While not an explicitly religious film, “The Way” embodies many Catho­lic themes. Estevez and Sheen wanted to promote the Camino route and pil­grimage in general. Estevez referred to the film as “pro people, pro life — not anti —anything.” It explores how loss, community and faith can be inter­twined. 
After doing well for a year on the festi­val circuit, “The Way” will stop in South Bend as part of Sheen and Estevez’s cross-country promotional tour before the release date on Oct. 7. It seems sur­prising that Estevez and Sheen would choose to appear on a college campus in Indiana, but it makes sense when look­ing at the film’s themes, not to mention the fact that Sheen has always been a supporter of Notre Dame, even receiving the Laetare medal in 2008. 
This father-son duo has had successful careers in Hollywood spanning decades. Estevez wrote the part of Tom specifically for his father. Sheen has starred in such classic films as “Apocalypse Now,” “Wall Street” with that other Sheen son, “JFK” and “The Departed.” For many, his most-loved role is the part of President Josiah Bartlet on “The West Wing.” 
As for Estevez, he played a big part in the “Brat Pack” of the ‘80s, starring in “The Outsiders,” “The Breakfast Club” and “St. Elmo’s Fire.” He went on to act and direct in a variety of films, including “The Mighty Ducks” movies and “Bob­by.” 
Besides representing their Catholic identity in this film, Estevez and Sheen wanted to tap into their Spanish roots. Sheen’s father is from a town close to the Camino, and Sheen himself took the pilgrimage while on hiatus from “The West Wing” a few years ago. “The Way” is filmed on location on the Camino, and despite a few main actors, everyone who appears on screen are real pilgrims. 
Presented in partnership with the Na­novic Institute for European Studies, the authenticity of the film and their expe­rience in Spain will possibly be a point of conversation when Estevez and Sheen speak before and after the two screen­ings of “The Way” on Sunday. Now sold out, it is sure to be a special event in the fall season at DPAC. 

Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 
ELISA DE CASTRO 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Matt Kemp is MVP 
What defines a Most Valuable Player? 
Some define it as the best player in the sport. That is the stan­dard thought when you hear the term “MVP”, but is this the right thought? If that were the case, Alex Rodriguez would have 10 MVPs and there wouldn’t be any an­ticipation year-in and year-out. 
So it seems as though being the most famous or popular player isn’t the only factor taken into defining what an MVP is — that qualification is reserved for an All-Star selection. 
It is also clear the MVP doesn’t just go to the player with the most talent in baseball, as if hitting a 95-mph pitch with a stick in your hand isn’t enough. 
But if you think about the play­ers with the most talent in base­ball, you look at five-tool players 
— the ones that possess a cannon for an arm, hit for average, hit for power, steal bases and cover the field defensively better than any­one else. That would mean every year only Carlos Gonzalez, Matt Holiday, Troy Tulowitzki, Matt Kemp and Josh Hamilton would have a chance to win and that obviously isn’t the case. 
Yet another factor is how “valu­able” is a player to a team. If you take the term Most Valuable Play­er literally, Albert Pujols would win every year. What player in baseball is more valuable to his team than Pujols is to the Car­dinals? Just imagine where the Cards would be without Pujols’ presence (although you may not have to wait long to see that). 
We are also witnessing this effect in the NFL with the India­napolis Colts. Peyton Manning should win every year in a literal sense, especially this year just to prevent Kerry Collins from throw­ing another pass while he should be applying his Just-for-Men. 
Therefore, it seems that the MVP is awarded to the player with just the right mixture of these fac­tors — and let us not forget about the need for a statistically good year — that goes without saying. So who should win this year’s MVP then? 
Matt Kemp. 
This Rude Boy has given us one of major-league baseball’s best seasons statistically when compared to his peers. Kemp, 25, is currently in the top five in the National League in every major category including third in home runs (33), third in RBI (109), fourth in batting average (.316), second in stolen bases (38) and first in outfield assists (11). Just looking at these five-tool stats compared to the rest of the National League, it is obvious Kemp wields one of baseball’s most talent-rich arsenals. Check one category off the list. 

Kemp has also gotten recog­nition as baseball’s best player over the last year, most nota­bly by Dusty Baker and Davey Lopes. Check notability off the list. 
But next, the question re­mains: how important is he to the Dodgers? 
The All-Star center fielder leads the Dodgers in runs, hits, home runs, RBI, walks, stolen bases, batting average, on-base percentage, slugging percent­age, outfield assists and has yet to miss a game in over two years. Would the Dodgers even be hovering around .500 and in third place in the NL West in the midst of their most controversial season in the franchise’s proud history? I would be willing to put down Frank McCourt’s six houses on that answer. 
But the question always remains: Does an MVP need to be on a playoff team? To know the answer to that question, one would have to look at the other candidates. 
Having two players in the race hurts the Brewers’ MVP chances. Prince Fielder is not the Brewers’ most valuable player because that title belongs to Ryan Braun, and vice versa. Their collective effort has led to the Brewers’ first place stand­ing, and thus it would be difficult to choose either. The same goes for Ryan Howard. 
There is a reason why A-Rod has only won two MVPs in his seven statistically remarkable seasons with the Yankees — because his effort is diluted by the great years the rest of the Yankees are having. 
Meanwhile, Jose Reyes would look like the likely MVP choice, if he didn’t miss games due to a new hamstring strain every other day. Tulowitzki, too, is having a great year, but just not quite up to par with Kemp’s numbers. 
So if the voters get it right, we should see the MVP and Cy Young in the Dodgers’ hands. Too bad I ran out of room to write about Clayton Kershaw. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Andrew at agastel1@nd.edu 
MLB 


Red Sox blow lead against Blue Jays 
Associated Press 

BOSTON – Now comes the really hard part for the Boston Red Sox: four more games against the Tampa Bay Rays. 
The Red Sox lost for the sixth time in seven games, wasting an eighth-inning lead when Adam Loewen’s two-run single off hard-throwing Daniel Bard lifted the Toronto Blue Jays to a 5-4 win Wednesday. 
“It’s just another loss. I don’t think it’s any tougher than any other loss,” first baseman Adrian Gonzalez said. “We’ve got to find a way in the next series to play better baseball.” 
Just 3-10 in September, the Red Sox began the day with a four-game lead over Tampa Bay in the AL wild­card race. Boston led the AL East at the start of the month and was nine games ahead of the third-place Rays. 
After getting swept in a three-game series at Tampa Bay last weekend, Boston hosts the Rays in a four-game series starting Thurs­day night. 
“Very frustrating,” said Bard, 0-3 with a 30.86 ERA in his last three appear­ances. “I’ve been through it before. “Sometimes the ef­fects are magnified by how big the games are.” 
Boston led 4-2 in the eighth before Toronto came back against the hard-throwing Bard (2-8), who entered and walked Ed­win Encarnacion and Kelly Johnson. 
Mark Teahen bunted, and Bard’s throw to first pulled Lars Anderson off the bag for a throwing error that loaded the bases. 
J.P. Arencibia’s RBI groundout cut the lead to 4-3, with third baseman Kevin Youkilis bobbling the ball and throwing to first. Loewen followed with a sin­gle to center. 
Loewen, converted to out­fielder from pitcher, was 0-1 with a 6.63 ERA in four starts against the Red Sox for Baltimore in 2006 and ‘07. 
“I’m very aware of that. They got me,” he said, dressed in a ballerina cos­tume as spoke to the media, part of late-season rookie hazing. “I think the best chance I had was against (Josh) Beckett in our place. I came out of the game (ahead) 2-1 in the sixth, and they ended up winning it in the top of the ninth.” 


Loewen has taken advan­tage for openings created by injuries. 
“September is about tak­ing a look at all of our per­sonnel and he’s capitalized on every opportunity, so there’s no reason to think that’s not going to still be in the rotation and in the mix,” Toronto manager John Farrell said. 
Ricky Romero (15-10) al­lowed four runs — three earned — and six hits in eight innings. He improved to 8-1 in his last 10 starts. 
Frank Francisco pitched a 1-2-3 ninth for his 15th save in 19 chances as the Blue Jays won for just the third time in nine games at Fen-way Park this season. 
Red Sox starter John Lackey gave up two runs and seven hits in 5 1-3 in­nings. He threw 115 pitch­es. 
“He had a high pitch count, mainly early,” Bos­ton manager Terry Franco­na said. “When he came out of the game, we had a good chance to win.” 
Toronto took a 2-0 lead in the first on consecutive run-scoring singles by En­carnacion and Johnson, but Boston tied it in the sec­ond when Ryan Lavarnway reached on a run-scoring error by third baseman Brett Lawrie and an RBI grounder by Jason Varitek. 
Marco Scutaro hit a sac­rifice fly in the third after Jacoby Ellsbury’s triple, and Gonzalez homered into the Red Sox bullpen for a 4-2 lead in the sixth. 
In the sixth, Varitek held on and tagged out Lawrie, who came crashing in with his forearms while trying to score from third on Adam Loewen’s bouncer to second with the infield in, Varitek flipped over backward. 
NOTES: Gonzalez left with left calf tightness af­ter his homer. He said it tightened up in his previ­ous at-bat and bothered him on his home-run trot. “When I was rounding the bases, it got worse as I kept going,” he said before say­ing he hoped to play Thurs­day. ... Lawrie left with a bruised knee. ... Red Sox DH David Ortiz missed his second straight game with muscle spasms in his back. “He really wanted to play today,” Francona said. “He woke up this morning and was real sore, but he’s mov­ing around better.” ... The Red Sox honored RHP Tim Wakefield with a brief on-field ceremony after he be­came the 108th player in major league history with 200 career wins in Tues­day’s 18-6 victory over the Blue Jays. ... Francona was also honored on the field for being elected to the Na­tional College Baseball Hall of Fame earlier this year. ... Toronto SS Yunel Escobar missed both games in Bos­ton because of a bruised left arm. ... The Blue Jays have a day off Thursday before they attempt to stop the Yankees’ CC Sabathia (19-8) from winning his 20th game. Brett Cecil (4­
9) is scheduled to pitch for Toronto. ... Kyle Weiland (0­
1) opens the series against the Rays’ Jeremy Hellickson (12-10) on Thursday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
Newly renovated 5BR home half mile from campus. 
Great weekend rental for all home games, JPW, graduation. 
Call 574-250-2600 


NOTICES 
Everyone on campus is getting cheap eats, movie tickets, 2 for 1’s and FREE stuff. 
Get yours too. 
TEXT IRISH1 to 99000 

WANTED 
ND/SMC family hoping to adopt again. Love, opportunity, security, devoted dad, at-home mom. No pressure or commitment. We work with Adoption professionals who can vouch for home study and FBI clearance checks. Contact Atty:Steven Kirsh (800)333-5736, or feel free to e-mail us directly: eneadoptagain@gmail.com Facebook.com/adoptionEJEllen TEXT or CALL: 317.473.7635 

TICKETS 

BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY GAMES - 
GAs only. 
Call 574-277-1659 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
BIBLE STUDY GROUP. 10 lesson covering entire bible in 1 hour sessions. Call Tom 574-876-8928 
Never say, “Opps.” Always say, “Ah, interesting...” 
Hey Sergio and Vicke, This would have been in the paper on your actual birthdays — yeterday, but I was busy, you know, celebrating them with you. So allow me to now say: HAPPY BIRTHDAY(S). 

MLB 




Tigers rally past White Sox to extend winning streak 


Associated Press 
CHICAGO  — In a memorable month filled with exhilarating moments, Wednesday’s come­back win stood out for the De­troit Tigers. 
Carlos Guillen singled home the go-ahead run in the 10th inning and Detroit extended its longest winning streak in 77 years, rallying past the Chicago White Sox 6-5 for its 12th straight victory. 
“We hung in there and had a real win. 
Ryan Raburn’s pinch-hit homer with one out off Chris Sale brought the Tigers within two. Magglio Ordonez walked, chasing Sale. Alex Avila pinch-hit for Andy Dirks and hit Ser­gio Santos’ second pitch into the seats in right-center to tie it. 
The Tigers have won 22 of their last 26 games overall and 21 of 27 against the White 
Sox. 
“We’ve just 
been on a roll 
and able to 
do it with all 

nice win,” Ti­gers manager Jim Leyland said. “A really unbelievable  “The biggest thing is everybody is contributing, so that’s the biggest reason why we’re rolling.”  aspects of the game,” Avila said. “The biggest thing is everybody  
win.”  is  contribut- 
G u ill e n  Alex Avila  ing, so that’s  
also hit a solo homer for De- Tigers player  the biggest reason why  
troit,  which  we’re  roll­ 
hadn’t  won  ing.”  
12 in a row  Guillen,  a  
since 1934 —  t h r e e -t i m e  

when Hank Greenberg, Char-All-Star, hadn’t started a game lie Gehringer and the Tigers Sept. 3 — but Leyland had no lost a seven-game World Se-doubt the 14-year veteran ries to the St. Louis Cardinals’ would be ready to contribute. famous Gas House Gang. “I’m happier for him than 
Jose Valverde struck out the anybody else today,” Leyland side in the 10th to remain per-said. “He’s been working like fect in 44 save opportunities everybody else. He’s a proud this year. guy. He’s a pro and he knows 
Closing in on an AL Cen-he hadn’t played for 10 days. tral title, the surging Tigers He wants to show people he’s rallied for three runs in the a very capable player. He ninth off Chicago’s bullpen to showed that today.” prevent rookie Dylan Axelrod Guillen hit the ball hard in from earning his first career all five plate appearances. 
“He must have a dumb man­ager,” Leyland said. “Dumb managers sit guys for 10 days and when they come out, they hit (five) balls hard. I must be pretty dumb.” 
Speaking in the middle of a jubilant Tigers clubhouse, Guillen said he’s experienced this kind of scene before. 
“When I was with Seattle in 2001, we won 116 games,” Guillen said. “It’s very simi­lar. Similar feeling. The way the things happen, every day somebody comes through, dif­ferent guys.” 
Axelrod struck out eight and threw six strong innings in his first career start just two years after pitching for the independent Windy City Thun­derBolts. 
“It’s nice to get individu­al accolades like wins and things, but it’s a team game,” Axelrod said. “Unfortunately we came out on the losing end, but I was happy with what I did and just want to continue to build off that.” 
Santos (4-5) blew his sixth save of the season. 
“It’s a shame,” White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. “(Axelrod is) pitching very well and all of a sudden we just blew it for him. Very nice day, you see this kid having success in his first time in the big leagues and all of a sud­den, poof, another bad day for the White Sox.” 
Miguel Cabrera singled, doubled and scored a run for Detroit. 
Alexei Ramirez laced a two-run double and Paul Konerko added a two-run single dur­ing Chicago’s four-run second. Konerko reached 100 RBIs for the sixth time in his career. 
Tigers starter Brad Pen­ny allowed five runs — one earned — and eight hits over six innings. Phil Coke (3-9) threw a scoreless ninth for the win. 
Ramirez doubled, singled, walked and scored a run. Alejandro De Aza doubled, reached base four times, scored two runs and stole a base for Chicago. 
The mood couldn’t have been more different in the other clubhouse. 
“We’re having a good time,” Raburn said. “We’re having fun going out and playing, just trying to enjoy the moment and keep going on.” 
MLB 



Alfonzo suspended, fined for second case of drug abuse 
Associated Press office announced a 100-game released by the Major League Under the major league drug second positive test. penalty Wednesday. Baseball Players Association. “I agreement, first offenses are Baseball began testing with NEW YORK — Colorado Rock-Alfonzo, a 32-year-old backup learned my lesson in 2008 and arbitrated before any public penalties in 2004. Under the 
ies catcher Eliezer Alfonzo be-in his sixth big league season, have not taken any prohibited announcement — but addition-current rules, a third violation 
came the first player suspended was suspended for 50 games in substances since then. With the al offenses are litigated after a would carry a lifetime ban. 
twice for performance-enhanc-April 2008 while a member of union’s help, I intend to fight suspension is announced. Alfonzo is hitting .267 this 
ing drugs under the Major the San Francisco Giants. this suspension and look for-Manny Ramirez retired in season with one homer and 
League Baseball testing pro-“I am surprised by this posi-ward to appearing before the April rather than face a 100-nine RBIs in 75 at-bats. He has 
gram when the commissioner’s tive test,” he said in a statement arbitrator in the near future.” game suspension following a a .240 career average with 17 
homers during a career that also included stints with San Diego and Seattle. 


After the suspension three years ago, Alfonzo said he nev­er knowingly took steroids but did take medicine for bronchitis while home in Venezuela. 
The Rockies declined to talk 
about Alfonzo’s most recent 
suspension. 
“This is something that New York is very, very involved in,” Rockies manager Jim Tracy said in Milwaukee before Colo­rado played the Brewers. “It’s something that is out of my ju­risdiction.” 
The Rockies plan to stick with Wilin Rosario and Chris Ian­netta at catcher, and they also have Jordan Pacheco in case of an emergency. Pacheco is a converted catcher, but has been playing third base recently. 
There have been 60 suspen­sions this year under the tighter minor league testing program. Three 50-game penalties were announced Wednesday, to Colo­rado right-hander Randol Rog­ers (Boldenone), Cincinnati right-hander Cole Green (Meth­ylhexaneamine) and Baltimore first baseman Rhyne Hughes (an amphetamine). The trio will serve the penalties at the start of next season. 

NFL 


Pair of Patriots’ tight ends are a force to be feared 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Be­fore reaching the NFL, Aaron Hernandez watched Antonio Gates to pick up tips on playing tight end in the pros. 
On Sunday, Hernandez will get a much closer look when New England opens its home season against Gates and the San Diego Chargers. And the Patriots have two productive players — both in only their second season — at that position. 
Hernandez caught seven pass­es for 103 yards, Rob Gronkows­ki grabbed six for 86 and each scored a touchdow n in a 38-24 win over the Miami Dol­pounds, sometimes looks like a wide receiver speeding down-field before and after the catch. 
“I was more of a receiver growing up and running back through my whole life,” Hernan­dez said, “but when I went to college and came here, you had to start blocking a little bit, so that’s what I’m improving on.” 
His learning wasn’t confined to the classroom and the prac­tice field. He’d watch tight ends like Gates and Dallas Clark of the Indianapolis Colts in some of their games. 
“I watched them before I got to 
the league, and try to take some things from them,” Her­nandez said. “They’re great players. If I see 

phins in which the Patriots gained a fran­chise-high 622 yards Monday. “The skill set of both  “The skill set of both those players really allows us to be flexible. Not only are they good blockers, but they can catch the ball, too.”  them playing, I’ll definitely watch their games and see what they can do and what can help me.”  
those  players  Gates wasn’t  
really allows us to be flex­ible,” Patriots  Tom Brady Patriots quarterback  drafted com­ing out of col­lege in 2003,  
q ua r terback  but in his first  
Tom  Brady  eight seasons,  
said  Wednes­ he caught 537  
day. “Not only  passes for 69  
are they good  touchdow ns.  

blockers, but they can catch the He had at least 50 receptions in ball, too. You can run it behind each of his last seven. them, you can play-action pass Last year, the Patriots drafted and then they’ve become pretty Gronkowski in the second round efficient in the passing game out of Arizona and Hernandez in also, just to spread them out and the fourth out of Florida. be able to run them on different “Hernandez is really athletic run combinations. They’re very and fast. He’s kind of a wide good players.” receiver,” Patriots cornerback 
Gronkowski, at 6-feet-6 and Leigh Bodden said. “Gronk is 265 pounds, is the better block-fast, but he’s not as fast as Her-er. Hernandez, 6-1 and 245 nandez. And he’s big. He can 
PGA 



Donald denies tabloid insult against Woods 
Associated Press 
LEMONT, Ill. — Luke Donald disputes a British newspaper headline in which he says the Ti­ger Woods era is over. 
“I don’t recall ever saying the Tiger era is over,” Donald said Wednesday at the BMW Champi­onship. “I’ve certainly said in the past I think it’s tough to come back from physical injuries. I’ve had some, and obviously being away from the game for so long, it’s cer­tainly not go­ing to be easy for him to get back to where someone with one of the strongest minds in golf. It’s a confidence sport. Even though Tiger’s only 35, there are a lot of young guys coming up — Rory McIlroy and Keegan Bradley and a bunch of others. I would assume a new era is upon us.” 
Woods now has gone two full years without winning on the PGA Tour. His most recent win was the Australian Masters in November 2009, right before the car accident outside his Florida home brought 
revelations of 
infidelity. 
Since then, 
five of the last 

he was. “I wouldn’t doubt that Ti­ger will come  “I wouldn’t doubt that Tiger will come back and win again.”  eight major c h a mp i on s have been in their 20s.  
back and win  “ W he t he r  
again.”  Luke Donald  the  Tiger  era  
TheExpress   Daily pub- PGA golfer  is over, I don’t know,” Donald  
lished a story  said. “Obvious- 
W ed n e s da y  ly, there’s a lot  
with the head- of great young  
line,  “Luke  players coming  

Donald: The Tiger Woods Era is up and showing a lot of talent. But ‘Over.’” certainly, I would never be naive 
In the story, Donald is quoted as enough to write Tiger off. He has saying, “When you get that com-a tremendous amount of talent, bination of injury plus the scandal and I’m sure when he starts play-that went on, mentally that’s quite ing a little bit more, that will start scarring. It’s a lot to take, even for showing again.” 
body you. 
“And Gates is a bodier. He’s not overly fast, he’s not quick, but he just finds ways to get open. You give him a small window, he’ll catch it.” 
As rookie, Hernandez had 45 receptions for six touchdowns, while Gronkowski had 42 for 10. A position of weakness for the Patriots became a strength that could continue for a long time. 
Like Gates, who has Philip Riv­ers throwing to him, Hernandez and Gronkowski haul in passes from one of the NFL’s best quar­terbacks, reigning MVP Brady. 
“Tom’s definitely going to find the mismatch,” Hernandez said. “When he gets to the line of scrimmage and he sees the big­gest mismatch, you know he’s coming” to that receiver. 
Hernandez considers himself a tight end. After all, how many wide receivers weigh as much as he does? 
But he also can line up in the slot or the backfield. 
“What they’re doing with that personnel group is awfully im­pressive,” Chargers coach Norv Turner said, “They’ve always been a great passing team, but to add the number of explosive plays really jumped out at you. When (Hernandez) starts mov­ing around and is in the slot like that ... he’s capable of being an explosive wide receiver. 
“He’s a matchup problem for defensive teams.” 
With two versatile tight ends, the Patriots can be more diverse on offense, lining players up in spots that can confuse the de­fense and running complex pat­terns into open areas. 
“You can move them around and give them different assign­ments and they’re able to handle that,” New England coach Bill Belichick said, “but that’s part of the nature of the tight end po­sition, I think. Whether you’re talking about Gates or (Miami’s Anthony) Fasano or whoever we play next. That’s what most teams do. 

“Maneuvering those guys around, putting them in differ­ent positions, having them do different things, that’s what cre­ates problems for the defense.” 
Opponents also must con­centrate on wide receivers Wes Welker, Deion Branch and Chad Ochocinco, and running back Danny Woodhead on pass pat­terns. That also helps Gronkows­ki and Hernandez get free. 
“It opens a lot for me because they’ll forget about me or forget about Gronkowski,” Hernandez said. “I’d say Gronk can really do everything. He could block any type of (defensive) end. He could get open versus anybody. He’s very dynamic and can do so much. 
“I’m limited in the blocking game but I’m improving. I’m more of a receiving-type tight end. We work off each other. Be­cause we’re both so different, it gets us both open a lot.” 
So far, so good. 



NBA 



Players may be forced to leave league for playing time 
Associated Press go out and find that at random 
to replace this product; that 

NEW YORK — Billy Hunter should definitely be noted.” hoped to deliver good news To date, Nets All-Star point when he meets with NBA play-guard Deron Williams’ deal ers on Thursday in Las Vegas. with Turkish team Besiktas 
Instead, the executive direc-is still the only one signed by tor of the players’ association a top NBA player since the isn’t even sure how he will an-lockout began July 1. Commis­swer all their questions. sioner David Stern has down-
No progress was made to-played the overseas option, ward ending the 2½-month believing there isn’t the money lockout during a meeting with or comforts to entice his su­owners Tuesday, and Hunter perstars. But lower-level play-might have to tell players to ers might choose any contract look elsewhere if they want to over no guaranteed payment be paid to play basketball any-back home anytime soon. time soon. More than 40 players are 
“There are a lot of guys, in Las Vegas this week taking many marquee players now, part in a league at the Impact who have offers to go outside Basketball academy, so union the country. leaders decid-And the ques-ed to go there tion is, what to speak with do they do?” them. Mean-Hunter said. while, own­
“I mean, do “I think there’s probably ers will be they hold off a division of interest meeting in making the within their group, and Dallas. Stern decision, or I think trying to develop has said there do they wait won’t be any 
a consensus within the 
in hopes decisions at
group is the issue.” 
that we get a Thursday’s deal in place session to 
Billy Hunter 
sometime in cancel train-the immedi-executive director ing camps, ate future?” NBA player’s association which were 
Hopes of scheduled to that dimin-begin in less ished after than three Tu esday’s weeks. meeting be-Despite tween the union’s executive Tuesday’s lack of progress, committee and the owners’ la-Fisher said his message won’t bor relations committee ended change much Thursday — be-with the sides still divided cause it’s been cautious all over the salary cap system, along. despite a hint of economic “I don’t think we’ve minced compromise. our words in terms of our guys 
And with Hunter and union understanding that this was president Derek Fisher of the a moment that we expected Lakers warning that the sea-to find ourselves in starting son might not open on time, over two years ago,” Fisher where do players go from said. “We expected to be here, here? we anticipated that, we felt 
Overseas? like our owners were strong 
A court room, to sue the enough in their position ... league after dissolving their that they’d be possibly willing union? to risk time lost in the season 
Back to NBA arenas, playing to get the things they needed under a deal they hate? in this particular round of col-
Hunter makes the latter two lective bargaining.” options seem unlikely for now, Hunter and Fisher likely reiterating Tuesday that play-will have to address the con­ers are unified in their refusal cept of decertification dur­to accept the owners’ current ing their presentation. NFL proposal. players dissolved their union 
But players might be con-this year so they could file an sidering overseas alternatives antitrust lawsuit against the now more than ever. league, though they ultimate­
“As time passes, guys are ly resolved their dispute with going to definitely defect, and owners. you won’t be able to find the Hunter’s preferred course same combination of skill and has been to wait for a rul­talent and character that the ing on a charge the union 450 of us NBA players pos-filed against the league with sess,” NBPA vice president the National Labor Relations Maurice Evans of the Wizards Board for unfair bargaining said. “You’re not just going to practices. 


“We’ve never really had any discussions about decertifica­tion,” Hunter said. “As you’re aware, we’ve obviously been experiencing some pressure, at least in the media, from some of the agents about de­certification. But that’s not a message that’s crossed our lips.” 
Hunter added he hoped for a ruling from the NLRB by the end of this month. 
That would be too late to save the opening of training camps, but time remains to open the regular season as scheduled on Nov. 1. Hunter hopes that at some point a split will de­velop between big-market and small-market owners — if it’s not already there — and the big spenders who have more incentive to play without mas­sive changes to the structure will push for a settlement. 
“I think there’s probably a division of interest within their group, and I think trying to develop a consensus within the group is the issue,” he said. 
In the meantime, Fisher is instructing players to train as normal. 
“Continue to prepare your­self physically and mentally for whatever circumstances play out, and if we start on time, you should be physically ready to go,” he said. “The way it looks right now we may not start on time, and you should continue to make the decisions and the plans accordingly to your individual situation.” 


PGA 


Players dissatisfied with Cog Hill course, speak out 
Associated Press 
LEMONT, Ill. — In what likely will be the last time the BMW Championship is played at Cog Hill, some of the PGA Tour’s top players are not sorry to see it leave the public course south of Chicago. 
The most biting comment Wednesday came from Steve Stricker, reputed to be one of the most polite players in golf. 
Stricker is among those who fell out of love with Cog Hill when Rees Jones was hired to redesign the course in 2008 in an effort to land the U.S. Open. The greens were raised. The bunkers were deepened. The course was length­ened. Steep ridges in the greens led to impossible putts for a shot that was only slightly off its mark. 
Cog Hill owner Frank Jemsek didn’t get the U.S. Open, and now the BMW Championship is leav­ing. 
“They need to get their money back, I guess,” said Stricker, who won at the old Cog Hill in 1996 when it was the Western Open held around the Fourth of July. “It’s too bad what happened here.” 
Cog Hill left a sour taste last year because the course was in poor condition, the product of an unusually hot summer that was tough on golf courses throughout the Chicago area. Phil Mickelson, not a fan of anything Jones de­signs, said the shape of the course wasn’t the issue. 
He attributed the criticism of Cog Hill to the man in charge of revamping it. 
“I know we all wish it had turned out differently,” Mickelson said. “But there was a lot of other guys to choose from that prob­ably could do the job, and maybe if they just start over, it could turn into something special. ... 
“But tee to green and the prop­erty, it’s got really great poten­tial,” he added. “I’d love to see Gil Hanse or a Crenshaw-Coore or Kyle Phillips or David Kidd — or guys that really know what they’re doing — come in and cre­ate something special here be­cause I think that’s what the fam­ily and this facility deserves.” 
The BMW Championship, which starts Thursday, is the third FedEx Cup playoff event for the 70 remaining players. The top 30 in the standings after this week advance to the Tour Cham­pionship with a shot at the $10 million prize. 
Geoff Ogilvy is happy to be here. He had to make birdie on the final hole of the Deutsche Bank Championship last week just to get into the top 70. It was a clutch moment, and a relief, for Ogilvy who is also trying to play his way onto the Presidents Cup team. 
His reaction upon making it? 
“I get rewarded with a trip to Cog Hill,” Ogilvy said, the sar­casm easy to read. 
Few other players have such a keen eye on architecture than Ogilvy. His assessment last year was that if Jones wanted a course that was really hard, then he suc­ceeded, and if he wanted one that was enjoyable to play, then he failed. 
He described it Wednesday as “kind of the same as last year, just long and hard and really quite narrow in spots.” 
Ultimately, that doesn’t matter. Everyone has to play the course, whether they think it’s among the best or the worst they play. Stricker and David Toms both shared stories of winning on courses they didn’t particularly enjoy at first sight — Toms twice at Kingsmill (no longer on the schedule), Stricker at Colonial. 


“It’s easier when you go to a course and you’re inspired by the course,” Ogilvy said. “Like when Phil gets to Augusta, he switch­es into a different mode. I’m the same. This is quite similar to a lot of courses we play on tour, so we should be used to it — long par 3s, long, rough, don’t miss the fair­way.” 
The BMW Championship is run by Western Golf Association, which supports the successful Evans Scholars program for cad­dies. It has a history of moving around the country, which it will do starting next year. 


The tournament moves to Crooked Stick in Indiana — the Ryder Cup will be in Chicago a month later — and it will go to Cherry Hills in Denver in 2014. It is to return to Chicago in 2013, with Conway Farms in the north­ern suburbs on the short list of courses. 
Plenty is at stake this week, whether Cog Hill is a favorite or a course they can’t wait to leave. 
Ogilvy and Ernie Els are at the lower end of the FedEx Cup list and need to finish among the top five or six to advance to the Tour Championship. Els has never 
missed going to East Lake in the FedEx Cup era. 
Webb Simp­son, a winner on the TPC Boston, is No. 1 in the stand­ings and as­sured of being among the top five at East Lake. The lead­ing five players only have to win the Tour Championship 
“A great golf course is the way he is ... challenging for the playing, espe­good player but playable cially after an-for the average player, other week of 
practice with 
and I feel like this is 
the belly put-
the exact opposite.” 
ter, which he intends to use. 
Phil Mickelson 
As for his professional golfer feelings about 
to collect the $10 million bonus, no matter what anyone else does. 
Simpson is followed by Dustin Johnson, who won the Barclays and is the defending champion at the BMW Championship. The next three are Matt Kuchar, world No. 1 Luke Donald and Brandt Snedeker. 
The other “cup” on the line is the Presidents Cup. This is the fi­nal week to qualify for the team, and it’s close on both the Ameri­can and International sides. Jim Furyk is at No. 9, slightly ahead of Toms and Snedeker. On the Inter­national list, Ogilvy is at No. 10, barely ahead of Louis Oosthuizen, while Vijay Singh and the Aussie duo of Aaron Baddeley and Rob­ert Allenby still have a chance. 
“It’s in great shape this year,” Johnson said. “It’s long, it’s hard. You’re not going to go very low here, so make a lot of pars and if you can sneak in a birdie every once in a while, then you’re doing well.” 
Mickelson is No. 10 in the standings and needs a big week to 
give himself a 
chance at win­
ning the FedEx 
Cup. He likes 
Cog Hill? Mick­
elson can over­
come that. He 
had a chance to win at Torrey Pines, another Jones redesign. Besides, Mickel­son’s biggest beef is not how the golf course plays for the pros, rather the amateurs. 
“A great golf course is ... chal­lenging for the good player but playable for the average player, and I feel like this is the exact op­posite,” Mickelson said. “It’s fine for us. We don’t have any prob­lems with it. But the average guy just can’t play it.” 



Watt 
continued from page 24 
one of the top junior players in the country in high school, leading to interest from Notre Dame. 
A variety of factors led to Watt choosing the Irish. 
“I was looking at the end [of the recruiting process at] Notre Dame, Duke and Vir­ginia and I just fell in love with Notre Dame, he said. “Everything here seemed like a great fit and I loved the coaches so it was a pretty easy decision for me in the end.” 
Upon arriving in South Bend, Watt made an immedi­ate impact on the Irish squad, earning all-Big East honors his freshman season. He is now entering his third year as the No. 1 singles player for Notre Dame, a position that requires him to face each op­posing squad’s best player. 
“It’s tough playing No. 1 every day,” Watt said. “You play the best guys from each team, but each day I want to get better.” 
He’s done that so far, gain­ing a slot in the NCAA tourna­ment last season, and earning a preseason No. 28 national ranking by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association entering this year’s campaign. With that comes seemingly high goals, but right now, Watt is simply focused on playing to the best of his abilities. 
“I basically want to have the best season [I can], be­
cause it’s my last year,” he said. “I want to sur­prise people and do better than I have the last two years.” 
In order to surpass pre­vious sea­son’s results, Watt has worked hard to get better at different aspects of his 
game. In particular, his serve has shown marked improve­ment in his time on campus. 
“The last two years or so, I’ve developed a serve that I’ve never had before,” he said. “I’ve never been able to win points on my serve, but now I’ve developed a pretty good serve that’s allowed me to make things a lot easier on my service game. I’m able to attack the ball now, which is something I wasn’t able to do when I came in my freshman year.” 
Being a senior marks Watt’s last chance for individual success, but it also increases 

With Notre Dame’s season opening this weekend at the Illini Invitational, Watt gets the chance to open his year on a strong note — something the coaching staff is looking forward to seeing. 
“[Watt] is certainly in the elite pack of players that will be there this weekend,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “He has been training hard and preparing very well. He knows he can compete, so now he just has to worry about playing.” 
Watt also has placed high expectations on himself for this weekend’s event. 
“It’s the first tournament of the year and I want to play well. And I know if I play well, I can beat anybody out there,” Watt said. “That’s basically my one goal: just go out there, have fun and play well and see where everything falls.” 

Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

“It’s tough playing No. 1 every day. You play the best guys from each team, but each day I want to get better.” 
Casey Watt senior 
his role from a leadership standpoint for the rest of the team. 
“As a se­nior, I re­member when I was a freshman, I always looked up to the seniors and I realized that when I’m a senior, the younger guys will be 
looking up to me,” Watt said. “We’ve got to set a positive example and lead by example on the court and off the court and be the backbone for our team.” 
NFL 




Injuries create a challenge for Rams, lineup affected 
Associated Press “I couldn’t tell a bit,” wide re-season. Bartell was a second-counted out for Monday night’s cently released by the Cleveland 
ceiver Mike Sims-Walker said. round pick in 2005 and is the game at the New York Giants. Browns, was signed. 
ST. LOUIS — St. Louis Rams “He looked great to me.” second-longest tenured Ram. Jackson was among a large Center Drew Miller was re-quarterback Sam Bradford Trainer Reggie Scott said elec-“It’s unfortunate for Ron,” group of players getting treat-leased, safety Jonathan Nelson made all the throws during a trodes flow through the glove, middle linebacker James Lau-ment during a workout that last-was released from the practice short practice, making a fast which is dampened in water to rinaitis said. “He’s one of the ed just over an hour. squad, and quarterback Tom recovery from a bruised index promote connectivity, and then leaders on our defense, and our All of the injuries prompted Brandstater and offensive tackle finger. connected to an electrical stimu-team.” a flurry of moves. Safety Tim Tim Barnes were signed to the 
A special glove designed to in-lation unit. Bradford has been Jackson, who strained his Atchison was elevated from the practice squad. Brandstater also crease blood flow to the injury wearing the glove, in 20-minute right leg early in the opening practice squad to the roster and might get some work at wide re-and reduce swelling may have sessions, at Rams Park and at loss to the Eagles, has not been running back Quinn Porter, re-ceiver with the scout team. helped get him back on the field home. quickly. “It’s a neat little gadget,” Scott 
“Everyone says I look like Mi-said. “It’s helped out wonderful­chael Jackson,” Bradford joked ly. He’s been living in it.” Wednesday. “I’m not really sure Scott said the device helped what it does. They say it works running back Steven Jackson and obviously my hand feels bet-recover from a dislocated finger ter, so I trust them.” last season. 
Bradford said although there As a rookie, Bradford was was some soreness, the finger among three quarterbacks who felt “10 times better” than it did took every snap. Backup A.J. on Monday, the day after the Feeley was needed for the first Rams’ opening 31-13 loss to the time in two seasons in the fourth Philadelphia Eagles. The origi-quarter after Bradford was hurt nal plan didn’t call for him throw when he struck the upraised before Thursday and Bradford hands of a defender after a pass. hadn’t been that optimistic. “He’s kind of over the hump 
“I wouldn’t have come out of with some things, it looks like the game if it wasn’t serious,” he’s going to be OK,” coach Steve Bradford said. “I couldn’t feel it, Spagnuolo said. “I think it would I couldn’t move it, I really was be the understatement of the concerned.” year to say it’s a relief.” 
Now he’s hopeful his right There are plenty of other con-hand will be 100 percent by Mon-cerns, though. Cornerback Ron day night when the Rams play at Bartell was placed on injured the New York Giants. For anyone reserve with two fractures in his watching or on the receiving neck, further thinning a position end, it’s already close enough. with little depth entering the 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 


Belles fall behind early, lose to conference rival 

By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Despite strong performances in spurts, the Belles dropped a match to visiting Alma in a 3-1 decision Wednesday night. 
Saint Mary’s (2-6, 1-3 MIAA) was coming off its first confer­ence win of the year against Olivet, but failed to uphold that momentum against the Scots (6-2, 3-1), who managed to outlast the Belles in a series with big scoring runs. 
Alma scored the first five points of the first set before Saint Mary’s closed the gap to just one. Alma went on to score the next eight points, and ultimately won the set 25­16. 
The second set featured a back-and-forth battle before the Belles emerged victorious off a kill by freshman outside hitter Kati Schneider. 
This would be the only win for the Belles, however, as the Scots prevailed in the next two sets. Saint Mary’s did not go down without a fight in the fourth and final set, which featured nine ties and six lead changes. 
For Saint Mary’s, Schnei­der shared match-high honors with senior middle hitter Shel­by Gray of Alma with 13 kills, and Schneider added 13 digs. 
Junior outside hitter Stepha­nie Bodien was right behind Schneider with 12 kills and 10 digs of her own, while senior libero and defensive specialist Meghann Rose bolstered the defense and reached match-high honors with 28 digs. Freshman setter and defen­sive specialist Annie Bodien contributed 13 of the Belles’ total 82 digs. 
Saint Mary’s has nearly a week to prepare for its next game, when the Belles travel to take on in-state conference rival Trine on Sept. 20th. 

Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 



Belles top the Comets, stay undefeated on the season 
By MATT UNGER less throughout most of the first Meckes added her second goal Sports Writer half despite the Belles control-of the game and third of the sea­ling the ball and playing pres-son with 12 minutes remaining 
Powered by junior midfielder sure defense. Saint Mary’s broke when her shot inside the goal box Maddie Meckes’ two goals, Saint through with about 11 minutes deflected off a Comets defender Mary’s defeated Olivet 3-0 in remaining in the half, when into the goal. an early season MIAA grudge sophomore midfielder Mollie Va-Meanwhile, defensively, the match. lencia found sophomore forward Belles limited the Olivet’s scor-
The match was the conference Jordan Diffenderfer open over ing opportunities, holding them opener for both teams and the the middle of the Comets’ defense to a meager seven shots and only Belles (5-0, 1-0) dominated the for a goal. one corner kick. Belles freshman Comets (0-5, 0-1) throughout the The Belles then increased their goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum rain-splashed contest. lead to 2-0 with less than a min-turned away all three Comets 
“The rain always makes the ute left in the half to effectively shots on goal to post her first ca-game a little more sloppy,” Belles take control of the game. Meckes reer shutout. coach Michael Joyce said. “[It drilled the first of her two goals Through five games, the Belles creates] more turnovers and into the net from 25 yards out. have remained stingy on defense, more loose balls, so we weren’t “Anything can happen the lon-surrendering only one goal. as technically proficient as we’d ger the game stays close, and the “Our defense is the real like to be.” two goals late in the half sunk strength of this team,” Joyce said. with a lot of confidence knowing Joyce said the Belles will have a 
The game remained score-the other team,” Joyce said. “The rest of the players can play that even if they make a mistake, tough test against the Bulldogs. the defense can lock it down.” “It was a good way to start the 
After dispatching the win-conference [schedule], but Satur­less Comets, the Belles will day will be a big test,” Joyce said. face a tougher test Saturday “Adrian is a very good team, so in a road game against con-we’ll see what we’re made out of ference foe Adrian. The Bull-on Saturday.” dogs (3-2, 1-0) won their con­ference opener against Alma. Contact Matt Unger at Despite the dominating win, munger3@nd.edu 
moving,” Tracy said. “I must have looked like a goofball in 

Tracy 
high school. It’s usually just me jamming to my iPod in the continued from page 24 corner.” 
She said the dancing may state titles in high school — return during track season, two with her state record-when there are many different setting 4x800 relay team and events occurring simultane­another as a senior in the ously. 1,600 meter race. She is now The Irish host the National considering returning to the Catholic Championships Fri-pre-race ritual she used in day. high school. 
“I used to dance before ev-Contact Matthew DeFranks at ery race just to get my muscles mdefrank@nd.edu 





blocks already than she had last season. She said McHugh 


McHugh 

is a more complete player than a year ago. continued from page 24 “Last year she struggled at 
times with blocking,” Brown leader with her play,” Brown said. “But she’s worked hard said. “She needs to be more at it and improved a lot. 
c o n si st e n t  W he t he r  
and  vocal  she’s  get- 
this year.”  ting kills or  
If  McHugh  not, she’s al­ 
takes  the  ways in the  
next step this season, both player and coach should be happy. Af­ter a fresh­ “I don’t just hit the ball all the time. I’ve developed other shots. I’m not just looking for kills. I have better court vision. I’m  game. That consi stency is something that was only starting to come out last  
man year in  more aware of things.”  year.”  
which she led  “I don’t just  
the Irish with 386 kills and a .216 hitting  Andrea McHugh sophomore  hit the ball all the time,” McHugh said.  
percentage,  “I’ve  devel- 
McHugh  has  oped  other  
been  domi­ shots. I’m not  
nant  early  just  looking  
this  season.  for  kills.  I  

Her 110 kills lead the team, have better court vision. I’m yet Brown said she feels that more aware of things.” McHugh’s defense has been the most improved part of Contact Conor Kelly at her game, with more digs and ckelly17@nd.edu 

Rivals  teams in Division III. Top-ranked Methodist took home the title over DePauw by a  nior Cara Kielty said. The Belles will have a chance to see more compe- Last fall, the Belles began their championship season by placing second in the sea- Thursday and are looking forward to getting a glimpse of Trine’s home course.  
one-stroke  margin  with  a  tition,  and  begin defending  son’s  opening  conference  “Our  team  is  hoping  for  
continued from page 24  tou r na ment  last  year’s  match, four strokes behind  some  good  competition  
score of 630,  MIAA Cham­ eventual runner-up Olivet.  Thursday, and looking for- 
how we were hitting the ball  while  Saint  pionship,  on  “It’s  our  first  conference  ward  to  setting  our  low- 
and playing 15 out of the 18 holes.” Sophomore Doyle O’Brien turned in the lowest score of the tournament for the Belles  Mary’s fin­ished with a score of 681. “ T her e were a lot of  “We’ll look to equal our main rival Olivet that’s been scoring similar to us. I expect a real shoot-out.”  Thursday in their first c o n f er en c e match. The first of four  match and they all count to­wards our conference cham­pionship,” Hamilton said. “We’ll look to equal our main rival Olivet that’s been scor­ est team score of this year,” Kielty said. “We will pay at­tention to the course and its layout because [Trine is] hosting nationals in the  
as she earned 20th place with a 164. Senior Natalie  low this  scores past  Mark Hamilton  MIAA match­es before the  ing similar to us. I expect a real shoot-out.”  spring of 2012, so we are looking forward to a little  
Matuszak placed second for  weekend  so  Belles coach  t w o ­r o u n d  After hosting the first two  preview of what is to come.”  
the Belles, shooting 167 and  we know we  MIAA Cham­ contests of their season, the  The match will be held at  
finishing 30th in the tourna­ need to con­ pionships  in  Belles will travel to Trine for  Trine’s  Zollner  Golf  Course  
ment.  tinue  prac- October  will  the match. Undisturbed by  at 1 p.m. Thursday.  
The  tournament  provided  ticing and get  feature  all  the prospect of traveling, the  
the Belles an early season  better in order to advance to  nine members of the confer- Saint Mary’s players are ex- Contact Joseph Monardo at  
opportunity to face the top  nationals in the spring,” ju­ ence.  pecting a solid performance  jmonardo@nd.edu  


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, September 15, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 





Young talent 
McHugh returns to the Irish after summer playing with the U.S. Junior National Team 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Just a little over a year ago, Irish coach Debbie Brown knew then-freshman outside hitter Andrea McHugh would make an impact in her inau­gural campaign. What she might not have predicted was that McHugh would lead the Irish in kills and be selected Big East freshman of the year. 
“We knew she came in with a good skill set, and we fig­ured she would be a solid rotational player and a good contributor,” Brown said. “But she really stepped up and sort of exploded.” 
McHugh’s exploits for the Irish earned her a spot on the 
U.S. Junior National Team this summer as the squad traveled to Peru to compete in the FIVB Women’s Junior World Cham­pionship. In an interesting twist, McHugh and the Irish competed against McHugh’s national coach Rob Browning, also the head coach at Saint Mary’s (CA), when they took on the Gaels on Sept. 3. 
“Playing for the United States was an honor and an amazing experience,” McHugh, now a sophomore, said. “I learned a lot and be­came a much better player. Seeing other styles of volley­ball, how fast the play was, was quite interesting.” 
McHugh hopes that the ex­perience will help her lead the Irish and step up into the leadership role she earned with her play last season. 
“Between the Big East award and playing this sum­mer, I got a lot more con­fidence to be a more vocal leader on the court,” McHugh said. 
Brown said McHugh’s lead­ership qualities still need im­provement to match her on-court talent. 
“Last year, McHugh was a 


see McHUGH/page 22 



ND CROSS COUNTRY 


Tracy prepared to defend Big East title, lead team to victory 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS in not only cross country, but Big East, but also the nation. fessional major, however, is to a sixth place finish. Sports Writer also in track and field. Tracy “I’m not afraid to compete not just interested in personal Tracy continued her strong claimed a Big East title during with the best people. The only goals this season. running during outdoor track 
For Irish junior Rebecca last year’s indoor track sea-way to get better is to race “As a team, we want to win season, narrowly missing Tracy, visiting Notre Dame son, finishing the mile run in with tougher people,” Tracy the National Catholic Cham-qualifying for the NCAA meet. was initially more of an ap-4:46.61. said. “The Big East is a great pionships,” Tracy said. “We She finished the 1,500-meter peasement than anything else. “You can always challenge conference and there is al-want to score some points at run in 4:21.81 and in eighth 
“I visited [Notre Dame] on yourself,” Tracy said. “When-ways someone there to push the Notre Dame Invitational. place — one spot and less than the way to Michigan mostly to ever you reach a goal or don’t you harder.” We want to win our regional. one second away from qualifi­appease my mom,” Tracy said. reach a goal, you can always Tracy continues to push her-We want to be in the top 20 cation. “But I fell in love with this go faster. You can always im-self, aiming for a 6-kilometer teams at nationals.” “It was difficult,” Tracy said place and nothing else com-prove.” run closer to 21 minutes. Her During cross country sea-of the NCAA Regional meet. pared to it.” Tracy attributed that hunger current personal best stands son a year ago, Tracy fin-Tracy is no stranger to top 
The Barrington, Ill. native for improvement to her deter-at slightly less than 22 min-ished 69th during the NCAA finishes, having won three has now made the most of her mination to compete with the utes. Regional, crossing the line in time at Notre Dame, excelling best runners in not only the The psychology and prepro-22:10.81 and aiding the Irish see TRACY/page 21 
MEN’S TENNIS 


Watt leads Irish in senior season 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Many athletes fall in love with a sport by chance or ran­dom opportunity. For Irish senior Casey Watt, however, becoming a tennis player was only natural. 
“I mainly got into [ten­nis] because my mom played in college,” Watt said. “So I picked it up and I liked it a lot.” 
Family roots helped get Watt started in the game at age 7, but it was ultimately his own talent and skill level that transformed him into 

see WATT/page 20 


SMC GOLF 



Belles focus, strive to dominate conference 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing fin­ish in the O’Brien Invita­tional, the Belles are eager to retake the course with their first MIAA match of the season. 
As the hosts of the O’Brien Invitational last weekend, No. 5 Saint Mary’s end­ed the first day of play in eighth place before drop­ping to ninth after the tour­nament’s second day. In a field that included nine of the top 11 teams in the NGCA Division III Coaches’ Poll, Saint Mary’s was hurt by lapses in concentration, Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. 
“We didn’t play as well as we wanted to,” he said. “There were a lot of bright spots, we had a lot of good scores after nine holes, but we couldn’t quite finish off the round. Everybody seemed to have one or two big numbers that kind of skewed the score, but I was pretty happy with 
see RIVALS/page 22 



