
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Recovering Sr. Garcia discharged 
Observer Staff Report 
After making an impressive recovery, the Notre Dame se­nior who fell from his third-floor apartment window only two weeks ago was released from Memorial Hospital on Thursday. 
Marcus Garcia, 21, fell about 25 feet from his apartment window in the Foundry Lofts & Apartments at Eddy Street Commons on Aug. 25 around 
4:30 a.m. An employee at a local bar saw him fall as she was leaving work for the eve­ning and called 911. He was then transported to Memorial Hospital. 
Garcia’s parents, Juan and Kimberly, arrived in South Bend from their home in Tur­lock, Calif., on the evening of Aug. 25. His mother regularly posted Facebook updates for Garcia’s friends and family members to track his prog­ress. Kimberly Garcia up-

see GARCIA/page 4 


Students network with employers 
By VICTORIA MORENO 
News Writer 
Over 2,000 determined stu­dents dressed in business for­mal attire braved the rain to attend the Career Center’s Fall Career Expo on Thursday. 
The event allowed 149 par­ticipants in the Expo to offer business advice to current stu­dents interested in internships and future career options. 
“We expect the students who come talk to us to have done some research on the compa­ny so they can tell us why they would be a good fit,” UHY rep­resentative Rina Madias said. “It simply shows initiative.” 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car rep­resentatives said confidence and quality conversation skills are the key to a successful first impression. 
“More than anything we want the student to show that they are confident because that’s what you need in sales,” Enterprise representative Rick Willis said. 
Enterprise representative Nikki Secrest said the students should primarily direct the in­formal interview process. 
“We will guide the conver­sation but ultimately we want to see if a student has the abil­ity to keep the conversation 


Edison Lecture recognizes engineers as artists 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Engineers aren’t just scien­tists, they are also artists, a for­mer NASA administrator said in a lecture Thursday. 
Dr. Michael Griffin, who is also the incoming president of the American Institute of Aero­nautics and Astronautics, talk­ed about the dynamic role of en­gineers at the Edison Lecture. 
“Engineers and systems engi­neers are not just scientists,” he said. “They are designers who synthesize knowledge to create new artifacts.” 
In his speech, “System Engi­neering: What it is; What it is not,” Griffin said undergradu­ate engineers do not receive much vital background in de­sign. Rather, the focus is solely on engineering science. 
“The world we live in is de­signed, and we as engineers are helping to design it,” Griffin said. 
Although he said art is the basis of the engineering field, Griffin said science has helped going,” Secrest said. 

Junior management and con­sulting major Michael Barnett said it would have been ben­eficial to know these tips before attending the fair. 
“I wish I knew what they wanted me to say,” he said. “It’s difficult balancing that line be­tween showing them you know what you’re talking about and telling them something that they don’t really want to hear.” 
Students in fields outside of business said they were dis­couraged by the event. 
“When I approached my first company they told me they were only looking for finance ma­jors,” senior psychology and de­sign major Jenna Spizzirri said. “When I approached another 


see EXPO/page 4 
it accelerate as a discipline. 
Griffin also said the roots of what is now modern system engineering are planted in the Cold War era.  The 1950s were a time of large engineering proj­ects, including the creation of new weapons. 
“If the Cold War was a tax on humanity, it has had at least a few consequences that involved good,” Griffin said. 
Griffin said the aftermath of the Cold War wasn’t completely 


see EDISON/page 4 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer 
Former NASA administrator Dr. Michael Griffin delivers a speech at the Edison Lecture concerning the history of engineering. 


New club HANDS promotes service 
By EMILY SCHRANK “Instead of creating new proj-however this year we will of-News Writer ects, we aimed to maximize the fer alternative fall and spring 
impact of existing ones by chan-break service trips,” she said. 
When 2008 Notre Dame neling human resources in ex-“For fall break, we partnered graduate Mariana Diaz, a na-isting initiatives,” Diaz said. with a local organization Con­tive of Guatemala, was looking HANDS, a student-run orga-stru Casa, which builds new for a way to help her country nization, specializes in finding homes for low-income people and involve the Notre Dame volunteer placements for club in Guatemala.”Diaz said vol-community at the same time, members. unteers spend one week help-she co-founded the HANDS or-“Our most popular pro­ganization. grams are during the summer, see HANDS/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC Art Exhibit page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u How to watch an away game page 8 u Women’s soccer California bound page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, September 9, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF I GAVE YOU $100 RIGHT NOW, WHAT WOULD YOU SPEND IT ON? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Mary de Groot  Sam Jones  Michelle Rotondo  Laura Shute  Ian Garrahy  Marie Cole  
freshman McGlinn  sophomore Carroll  freshman Lyons  freshman Lyons  junior Fisher  freshman Howard  
“A ticket to the  “Lots of Cheerios  “A bike.”  “Notre Dame  “The 1-B Quad.”  “A decent  
Michigan game.”  and strawberry  apparel.”  artificial  
bars.”  Christmas tree.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Caitlin Housley Adam Llorens Bridget Feeney 
Graphics 
Marina Kozak 
Photo 
Sarah O’Connor 
Sports 

Sam Gans Jack Hefferon Matt Unger 
Scene 

Troy Mathew 
Viewpoint 
Meghan Thomassen 
LOCAL WEATHER 
OFFBEAT 

Carjacker gets ride to jail 
KANSAS CITY — When a man with a gun jumped on the hood of her car in Kansas City and demanded she drive, Rayna Garrett obliged — all the way to the police station. 
Prosecutors charged Dio­nette L. Price Wednesday with unlawful use of a weapon and felonious restraint. 
Garrett said Price, 26, was standing in the middle of U.S. Highway 71 in Kansas City Tuesday. When she tried to go around him he leaped onto the car hood. 
She sped up to try to knock him off, to no avail, and then headed to the Kansas City police station, a 2-mile drive. Garrett pulled up to the police garage and honked several times. 
Finally, she rammed into the garage door and he jumped off the hood and fled. Moments later, after she alerted police, Price was ar­rested at a bus stop without incident. 
Questioned by police, Price admitted jumping on the ve­hicle but not to having a hand­gun. No motive was given for the incident. 
Supernova dazzles scientists 
LOS ANGELES — Astrono­mers have found the clos­est, brightest supernova of its kind in 25 years, catching the glimmer of a tiny self-destructing star a mere 21 million light years from Earth and soon visible to amateur skywatchers. 
The discovery was made in what was believed to be the first hours of the rare cos­mic explosion using a special telescope at the Palomar Ob­servatory near San Diego and powerful supercomputers at a government laboratory in Berkeley. 
Scientists behind the dis­covery say the phenomenon — labelled by the rather obscure designation PTF 11kly — will likely become the most-stud­ied supernova in history. 
“It is an instant cosmic clas­sic,” said Peter Nugent, the se­nior scientist at UC Berkeley who first spotted it. 
It is expected to reach its peak sometime between Sep­tember 9 and 12, when it will become visible to stargazers using binoculars or a small telescope. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The second lecture in the Boardroom InSights Execu­tive Speaker Series  will be today from 10:40 a.m. to 12 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The speaker will be Daniel Akerson, CEO of Gen­eral Motors. 
There will be a roundtable discussion entitled “Caderno de Memórias Coloniais” in C104/105 of the Hesburgh Center for International Stud­ies today from 2 to 4 p.m. The workshop in Portuguese and Spanish is cosponsored with the Luso-American Develop­ment Foundation (FLAD) and the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures. 
Today at 4 p.m. in the Hes-burgh Center Auditorium there will be a panel discus­sion entitled “Strategies of Peace after the ‘War on Ter­ror’: A New Era in Global Politics? A New Role for the U.S.?” The panel will feature Andrew Bacevich, professor of International Relations and History at Boston Uni­versity; Robin Wright, Middle East journalist; and Waleed El-Ansary, Chair of Islamic Studies at Xavier University. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be showing the film “The Tree of Life” to­day at 6:30 p.m. and again at 
9:30p.m. Tickets are $3. 
Today from 8 to 9:30 p.m., come see short plays written, directed and acted all within 24 hours. The performances will occur in the Washington Hall Lab Theatre. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH 77 LOW 51 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 








CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Friday, September 9, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

DPAC faculty aim to inspire 
Faith’ series that we pres­ent every year with FTT [Film, Television and The­atre] and Theology. Those are films that specifically deal with religious issues.” 
Barron said the Uni­versity’s Catholic charac­ter also influences which non-religious movies DPAC screens. 
“It also extends to think­ing about how film can espouse certain values and particularly issues of public service,” he said. “The ‘Screen Peace’ series (organized in conjunction with the Kroc Institute for International Peace Stud­ies) is a really good exam­ple of that. It’s not specifi­cally about Catholicism, but I think it’s in line with Catholic teaching in terms of providing service to those in need.” 
DPAC also hosts the film series “Europe Beyond Bor­ders” with the Nanovic In­stitute for European Stud­ies and the “Worldview” series with the Office of the President. 
Barron said DPAC also aims to show premier and Indie films that are not screened at local cinemas. 
“We try to do these things that have obvious academic connections, but we try to do fun things as well,” Bar­ron said. “We started our ‘Midnight [Movies]’ series last year. We kicked off with a screening of ‘[The] Rocky Horror Picture Show,’ which was a lot of fun. People threw things. It was a great night.” 
Contact Maria Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Artwork intrigues, inspires SMC students 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
This year, faculty at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center chose a schedule of events aimed at not only enhancing student’s educa­tion outside the classroom, but also inspiring audience members to develop a dif­ferent view on life. 

relevant to any of the class­es. If they are relevant, he contacts faculty directly, or faculty contact him. 
“I got a call today from the folks at the Medieval Institute because they’re really excited that we’re going to be showing ‘Monty Python and the Holy Grail’ at midnight [the evening of Oct. 1], so we’re trying to 


“The major­ity of things we’re pre­senting are things that are designed to educate, inform, en­lighten and inspire people to think about the world in a new perspec­tive,” Senior Associate Di­rector Ted Barron said. “And that’s always the best feedback that I get.” 

“The majority of things we’re presenting are things that are designed to educate, inform, enlighten and inspire people to think about the world in a new perspective.” 
Ted Barron Senior Associate Director DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
figure out a way to work to­gether on that,” he said. 
This semes­ter, the Center will also screen several films that relate to the Univer ­sity’s lib­eral arts courses. 
Barron said DPAC works in conjunction with cam­pus offices and faculty to provide music, theater, dance and cinematography that reflect the Universi­ty’s mission. 
“We’ve been doing a lot to make connections with courses, faculty interests, general campus interests so we know that our pro­gram isn’t just a program for its own sake but con­nected to other interests on campus,” Barron said. 
Barron said he periodi­cally reviews course list­ings and considers whether DPAC’s projects might be 

“We have our sci-fi se­ries, which is actually a course that’s taught by [As­sistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters] Pau­lette Curtis and [it] kind of builds [on] things she’s showing in her class,” Bar­ron said. “There’s [also] a history class that’s look­ing at the actor Daniel Day Lewis because he has all these films that are Ameri­can historical films.” 
The Center also shows films that follow in the faith of the University. 
“We do events that have a very obvious Catholic ele­ment to them,” Barron said. “We have the ‘Films and 
By ABIGAIL FORNEY 
News Writer 
Now, until Sept. 16, stu­dents visiting the Moreau Galleries of Art at Saint Mary’s can view a collab­orative art exhibit featur­ing broken TVs and melting dolls. 
The exhibit, “Unknown Atomic,” is a collaborative student independent study and research (SISTAR) grant program project be­tween Saint Mary’s senior Katie Fisher and art profes­sor Krista Hoefle. 
English professor and di­rector of the SISTAR pro­gram Laura Haigwood said the exhibit highlights the talent of both art­ists. 
“It gives equal prom­inence to both, and 
However, first year Maria Monreal immediately liked the exhibit. 
“I wish I was that cool,” Monreal said. 
According to Fisher’s art­ist statement, this mix of emotions was the goal of her exhibit. She said she wanted to explore the rela­tionship between attraction and repulsion. 
Haigwood said she enjoys the uniqueness of the ex­hibit. 
“[‘Unknown Atomic’] is turning [the SISTAR pro­gram] over to more creative approaches to projects and encouraging larger atten­dance to the presentation,” Haigwood said. “[The ex­hibit is] a model for how we might do SISTAR presenta ­tions dif­


you can see that they are two ma­ture art­ “[The art] is bright, really in-your-face, and it makes you stop and look at it.”  f er en t l y , and we have al­r e a d y  
ists and can  c h a nge d  
hang to­gether after they’ve col- Natalie Burkhart senior  how we’re promot i ng them.”  

laborated.” Haig wood said. 
Haigwood said the SI­STAR pro­gram an­nually grants Saint Mary’s students the opportunity to work with a Saint Mary’s professor on a collaborative eight-week project during the summer. 
The everyday objects fea­tured in “Unknown Atomic” have been altered to include barcodes and cautionary labels. 
Students have mixed reac­tions regarding the exhibit. 
“I honestly don’t real­ly understand it, but it’s awesome,” senior Natalie Burkart said. “[The art] is bright, really in-your-face, and it makes you stop and look at it.” 
The first time she visited the exhibit, junior Maeva Alexander thought the ex­hibit was strange. 
“The little house with people inside melting [was gross], it was like a destruc­tion of our childhoods.” 
Also on exhibit in the Moreau Gallery is Beth Re­itmeyer ’s “Room for 
Inspiration” which features walls lined with quilts and clouds and ceiling tiles adorned with hanging flow­ers. 
The exhibit is interactive 
— visitors can write mes­sages and pin them to the clouds. 
An additional exhibit by Jim Hopfensperger features dysfunctional pieces of fur­niture. 
“[The furniture pieces are] modern and minimal­istic, but with a fantastic twist. I feel like Alice from ‘Alice in Wonderland’ and Mr. Tumnus from Narnia would fight over that chest of drawers,” Monreal said. 
The exhibits are free and open to the public Monday through Friday from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. 


Contact Abigail Forney at aforne02@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, September 9, 2011 
Edison 
continued from page 1 
negative as it caused systems engineering to become more complex. 
To deal with the accom­plishment of new and complex systems, engineers working in this field need to be pre­pared and welcome failure, Griffin said. 
“The system engineer must strive to anticipate ways the design will fail,” Griffin said. 
When working with these complex systems, failure can occur when something 
is not actually wrong. The system can perform a func­tion or action that was not anticipated by the designer, 
Expo 
continued from page 1 
representative for a different company they told me they were only interested in stu­dents who wanted to be sales associates.” 
HANDS 
continued from page 1 
ing to build houses while directly interacting with community members. 
“This is a great opportu­nity to serve, while at the same time travel abroad and experience a unique culture,” she said. 
Notre Dame law student Sean Ashburn, who serves as chief operating officer for HANDS, said the orga­nization heavily subsidizes the trips to make them more affordable for students. 
The organization also has a number of internship po­sitions available for inter-he said. 
“Systems fail because something happens that is unanticipated,” he said. 
However, failure is nothing new for systems engineers. Reducing unintended inter­actions is the goal of a sys­tems engineer, Griffin said, and creating the right design prevents further failures. 
Griffin said his position causes him to continually analyze how the field has changed. 
“Whatever stature and prominence I have enjoyed as an aerospace engineer, it has caused me to reflect upon en­gineering as a discipline here in America, particularly in aerospace,” he said. 


Contact Anna Boarini at            aboarini@nd.edu 
Other students said the fair was very helpful. 
“[The fair] went really well,” junior American studies ma­jor Emily Pusateri said. “I now have a better idea about what I want to do this sum­mer and after graduation.” 

Contact Victoria Moreno at vmoreno@nd.edu 
ested students, Ashburn said. 
“HANDS is a great way to give back, but also learn marketable skills and gain real world experience that employers are looking for,” he said. 
Ashburn said he would encourage anyone interest­ed in HANDS to contact the organization. 
“It’s an exciting group to be a part of,” Ashburn said. “Since we are still a new or­ganization, there is a lot of passion and energy in what we do. We are still learning and shaping what our orga­nization will look like for years to come.” 

Contact Emily Schrank at   eschrank@nd.edu 
SMC to observe 9/11 anniversary 
By CLARE MAHER faculty realized the event News Writer would fall on Sept. 11, they de­
cided to alter the content of the 
This Sunday, Saint Mary’s recital to honor the event. College faculty will pay spe-“When we realized that this cial tribute to the anniversary year’s [recital] would fall on of Sept. 11 with a ceremonial the 10th anniversary of Sep­event entitled “We Remem-tember 11, we were left with ber.” two options: cancel or some-
The event was created by how commemorate the an-Saint Mary’s niversary,” faculty, and Thomas said. provid es “We hope the 
a way for s t u de nt s to remem­ber and reflect on  “As hard as that day was, I think it helped bring out the best in people, too.”  art will speak for itself.” S t u de nt s said they are happy the Col- 
past histo­ry through m u s i c ,  McKenna Schuster first year  lege is hosting a recital to commemorate  
dance  and  the event.  
poetry.  “It is a hard  
“If  we  thing to talk  

don’t remember our history, it about,” sophomore Jackie Ri­will cease to be our history,” vera said, “But so much emo-music professor Laurel Thom-tion can be captured through as said. “This event allows us art.  It gives you a different to remember, but also offers way to look at things.  I think a way to interpret the event this is a great way to remem­through an artistic media that ber what happened ten years has the power to heal.” ago and still hold on to that.” 
The recital was planned First year McKenna Schus­years in advance, but when ter reflected on the nation’s ability to come together fol­lowing the tragedy. 
“As hard as that day was, I think it helped bring out the best in people, too,” Schuster said. “You started to see flags again and hear all the hero­ic stories, and this program seems to capture that as well as the gravity of the day.”
 Thomas said she hopes students will gain emotional understanding through the event.
 “Art helps us come to new emotional understanding,” Thomas said. “We [want] this event [to be] one of hope, while being sensitive to all that 9/11 stands for.” 
Performers at the event in­clude Eva Hooker, Dr. Jeffrey Jacob, Dr. Daniel Party and Indi Dieckgrafe, who will be performing an original dance for the event. 
Students are encouraged to attend at 4 p.m. Sunday in the Little Theatre. The perfor­mance is free and open to the public. 


Contact Clare Maher at cmaher01@saintmarys.edu 
back home. Please keep us in your prayers, God close to your heart and your faith stronger than ever.” 
In an email interview earlier in the week, Garcia thanked his friends and family for their sup­port during his recover. 
“As I get ready to begin my rehabilitation, I want to extend my deepest heartfelt and emo­tional thanks to every single one of you — my family, my friends, many who I have yet to meet and the entire Notre Dame family — for lifting me in prayer and support,” he said. 
Garcia 
continued from page 1 
dated a public page titled “Pray for Marcus Garcia” on Wednesday to announce her son would be well enough to leave the hospital. 
“Plans are to be released sometime tomorrow,” the post stated. “We will need to stay close here to the hospital rehabilitation center as he will have daily rehab work­outs along with the many sched­uled doctor’s appointments.” 
Garcia will need another jaw surgery in the next week, her post stated. 
“INCREDIBLE that here we are just two short weeks later with him being released, and yes, all in one piece (maybe screwed and wired and stapled together) but in one piece,” her post stated. 
“Hopefully the next few weeks will go by quickly, and Marcus’ strength and progress will con­tinue to amaze us all and his body will be ready for the trip 





Friday, September 9, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
New U.S. terror threat detected 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON  — U.S. offi­cials said Thursday they were investigating a detailed al-Qaida car bomb plot aimed at bridges or tunnels in New York City or Washington to coincide with the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, the first tip of an “active plot” target­ing that date. 
The Homeland Security De­partment said the threat is credible and specific, but un­confirmed. The nation’s terror alert level has not changed, but it was under consideration Thursday night. 
Security has been enhanced around the country in the weeks leading up to the 10th anniversary. Law enforce­ment officials have been wary, particularly after informa­tion gleaned from Osama bin Laden’s com­pound in May indicated that 
a time of already heightened alert — that it could not be ig­nored. The officials described the threat to The Associ­ated Press on 

al-Qaida had c o n s id e r e d attacking the  “It’s accurate that there is specific, credible but unconfirmed  condition of anonymity to discuss sensi- 
U.S.  on  the  threat information.”  tive  security  
an n iversary  matters.  
and other i mp or t a n t dates.  Matt Chandler spokesman  New York Mayor Mi­chael Bloom- 
Law  en- Department of  berg  and  
forcement of- Homeland Security  Police  Com­ 

ficials were investigating three peo­ple who recently entered the 
U.S. The threat came in late Wednesday night and is the first tip the U.S. intelligence community has received about an “active plot” targeting the anniversary, officials said. 
The threat came in a single piece of information and was so specific — and came at such missioner 
Raymond 
Kelly planned an evening news conference to discuss the threat. 
President Barack Obama was briefed on the threat in­formation Thursday morning and directed the counterter­rorism community to redouble its efforts in response to the credible but unconfirmed in­formation, a White House of­ficial said. 
White House officials said there were no plans to change Obama’s travel schedule on Sunday in light of the threat. The president is scheduled to mark the 9/11 anniversa­ry with stops at New York’s ground zero, the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pa. He will also deliver remarks Sunday night at a memorial concert at the Kennedy Center in Washington. 
“It’s accurate that there is specific, credible but un­confirmed threat informa­tion,” Homeland Security Department spokesman Matt Chandler said in a state­ment. “As we always do be­fore important dates like the anniversary of 9/11, we will undoubtedly get more re­porting in the coming days.” 
Law enforcement offi­cials are checking out all of the details included in the threat. 
Obama addresses concern over jobs 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Attacking a deepening jobs crisis, Pres­ident Barack Obama chal­lenged a reluctant Congress Thursday night to urgently pass a larger-than-expected $450 billion plan to “jolt an economy that has stalled.” He urged lawmakers to slash Social Security taxes for tens of millions of Americans and for almost every business to encourage hiring. 
“Stop the political circus,” an animated Obama told a joint session of Congress in a nationally televised speech. Over and over he implored lawmakers to “pass this jobs bill.” 
Open to discussion but making no promises, Repub­lican House Speaker John Boehner said Obama’s ideas would be considered but the president should give heed to Republicans’ as well. “It’s my hope that we can work to­gether,” he said. 
In announcing a plan heavy on the tax cuts that Republicans tradition­ally love, Obama sought to achieve multiple goals: of­fer a plan that could actually get through a deeply divided Congress, speed hiring in a nation where 14 million are out of work, shore up public confidence in his leadership and put Republicans on the spot to take action. 
The fate of economy will define Obama’s re-election bid, but he sought to dismiss that element as political fod­der that means nothing to hurting Americans. 
Obama never estimated how many jobs would be created by his plan, which also includes new federal spending for con­struction, hiring and an exten­sion of jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed. De­spite his promise that it would all be paid for, he has not yet released the details on how. 
His message was unmistak­able to the point of repetition, as he told Congress more than 15 times in one way or another to act quickly. That was meant as direct challenge by a Demo­cratic president to the Republi­cans running the House to get behind his plan, especially on tax cuts, or be tarred as stand­ing in the way. 
The urgency of the jobs crisis is as pronounced as it’s been since the early days of Obama’s term. Employers added zero jobs last month. A whopping number of Americans — about eight in 10 — think the country is headed in the wrong direc­tion and Obama’s approval rat­ings are on the decline. 
In the House chamber, Obama received a warm re­sponse but then the usual polit­ical pattern took hold, Repub­licans often sitting in silence on the applause lines that had Democrats roaring. Boehner had chummy moments with Vice President Joe Biden at his side before the speech but was somber over Obama’s shoulder as the president spoke. 
“The people of this country work hard to meet their re­sponsibilities. 

Tropical Storm Lee forces evacuations, rolls through Northeast 
Associated Press unprotected homes were in erything that was in my base-the Passaic River was rising, out.” danger. If they fail, thousands ment and everything that was about 75 people were still in a Up to 75,000 residents in 
WILKES-BARRE, Pa. —  The of buildings could be lost. on the first floor. But I have shelter because of Irene. and around Wilkes-Barre remnants of Tropical Storm “This is a scary situation,” my life and I have my dog, so “We just finished clean-were ordered to leave. The Lee poured water on top of said Stephen Bekanich, Lu-that’s good.” ing up after the flood from mayor told residents to pack the already soaked Northeast zerne County’s emergency Upriver in Binghamton, Irene,” said Edith Rodriguez, food, clothing and medicine on Thursday, closing hun-management director. He N.Y., a city of about 45,000, who lived in shelters for three and plan for a three-day evac­dreds of roads and forcing and other officials were con-the Susquehanna coursed days and spent Wednesday uation. evacuation orders for more fident the levees would work into the streets and climbed night at a high school outside The river was projected to than 100,000 people from the but sought volunteers to lay halfway up lampposts at a Schenectady, N.Y., because of crest overnight at 40.8 feet — Susquehanna River’s worst sandbags on both sides of the downtown plaza. Mayor Matt Lee. “Now we have to start all essentially the same height flooding in nearly 40 years. river. Ryan said it was the city’s over again.” as the levee system and 
Most of the evacuations In Hummelstown, anoth-worst flooding since the flood Commuters and other trav-nearly the level it reached in were ordered in and around er Pennsylvania community walls were built in the 1930s elers searched for detours 1972, when Hurricane Agnes Wilkes-Barre, where the levee along the river, Donna Ma-and ‘40s. as highways and other roads caused massive flooding in system is just high enough to cLeod had to be rescued from Road closures effectively were flooded out, including the area. Luzerne County offi­hold back the river if it crests her home. sealed Binghamton off to out-sections of New York’s Inter-cials ordered all communities at the predicted level. Even “I’m heartsick,” she said. “I side traffic as emergency re-state 88, which follows the flooded by Agnes to evacuate if the levees hold, 800 to 900 know I lost two cars and ev-sponders scrambled to evacu-Susquehanna’s path. In east-for the remnants of Lee. 
ate holdouts who didn’t heed ern Pennsylvania, where hun-Rose Simko packed up her warnings to leave. Buses and dreds of roads were closed, car and headed to higher then boats were used to evac-flooding and a rock slide par-ground to stay with family. uate residents, and National tially closed the Schuylkill She was worried about her Guard helicopters were on Expressway, a major artery house, just 150 feet from a standby. into Philadelphia. levee, but knew she had to 
“It’s going to get worse,” Amtrak passenger service leave. Gov. Andrew Cuomo said, on New York’s east-west cor-“Everything is replaceable,” warning people to leave when ridor was canceled, as were she said, “but my life is not.” they get the order. classes at many colleges and Bekanich said several thou-
Up to nine inches of rain fell schools across the Northeast. sand people left their homes, in parts of Pennsylvania, and At least 11 deaths have been but he did not yet have a com­a similar amount fell in Bing-blamed on Lee: four in central plete total. Shelters prepared hamton. Rivers and streams Pennsylvania, two in north-to handle close to 5,000 peo­passed or approached flood ern Virginia and one in Mary-ple were beginning to fill up, stage from Maryland to Mas-land, along with four others Luzerne County Commission­sachusetts, and experts said killed when it came ashore on er Maryanne Petrilla said. more flooding was coming. the Gulf Coast last week. Some 20,000 evacuations 
The storm compounded the Pennsylvania Gov. Tom were ordered for the Bing-misery for some people still Corbett warned of “a public hamton area, and another trying to bounce back from health emergency because 6,000 to 10,000 in Harris-Hurricane Irene. sewage treatment plants are burg, Pennsylvania’s capital. 
Some of the areas hardest underwater and no longer Crews put sandbags around hit by the August storm, such working.” the governor’s mansion, and as Vermont, avoided the brunt “Flood water is toxic and the first lady moved furnish-of the latest bad weather. polluted,” he said. “If you ings from the first floor as the But in Paterson, N.J., where don’t have to be in it, keep river spilled over its banks. 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday September 9, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

CrackBerry 
I recently joined the hordes of smartphone owners on this campus. 
My weapon of choice? The new BlackBerry Torch, with touchscreen and full keyboard. 

In related news, I have never been so on top of new email, text and instant messages. For those of you who don’t know, the Black­Berry blinks a little red light whenever you have a message waiting. That little red light becomes impossible to resist, even in class or the dining hall. 
Addicted users call it a “CrackBer­ry,” and I’m slowly noticing the symp­toms everywhere — including me. Smartphones are taking over our daily communication and entertainment. We’re slowly growing into a genera­tion that does nothing but check their phones constantly. 
Yet, this problem speaks to a much larger and scarier conclusion — what do people give up when they become addicted to handheld technology? Users of all smartphones, not just BlackBerries, always have some at­tention divided away from the present interaction. The instant the phone flashes, vibrates or dings means they drop what they’re doing to respond. To prove my point: while writing this column I received three text messages and three emails, and all of them were responded to before I continued writing. 
Beyond stealing our time, smart­phones are making us a lazy society. When is the last time you memorized a phone number? The convenience of the Contacts function means you don’t have to … until your phone dies and you need to call someone. The same laziness applies to meeting some­one or going out. What did people do before mass text messages of locations or calling a friend that you lost at the mall? People interacted with other people in more personal ways than we do now. 
We also lost all attention span once smartphones hit our hands. With hun­dreds of thousands of Apps and web surfing capabilities, the smartphone has become the ultimate procrastina­tion and distraction device. If some­thing doesn’t grab and hold our atten­tion from the very nanosecond of our first encounter, we move on to the next thing. No longer are we forced into watching or reading one item, or, God forbid, playing one game. This conclu­sion frightens me because it means we will eventually turn away from dif­ficult things. We won’t take the time to ask hard questions because we don’t want to expend the effort. 
Don’t forget the expense of smart­phones. Phones might be discounted or free, but wireless carriers make money on expensive data plans, apps and accessories. As the smartphones are hitting our hands, they are also hitting our wallets. 
Even with all of this considered, I won’t give up my BlackBerry. (It is my preciousssssss.) However, I hope these points come back to me when I find myself clicking away mindlessly on the buttons. Perhaps I’ll learn to put down the phone to interact with people face­to-face. Isn’t the first step of recovery admitting you have a problem? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Amanda at agray3@nd.edu 

Fair share of careers 
Stress. High pressure. Competition. 
That’s the atmosphere on campus right now. Two career fairs were held this week and all eyes are on the prize — an internship or full-time offer. Particularly for seniors, all talk is of resumes and job interviews. Many students have already secured jobs and many more will 
be interviewing for positions in the coming 
the month of October. weeks. But many students do not know how to be-But for those still looking, the focus on gin seeking out those opportunities. landing that job right now, as many of our While the Mendoza College of Business peers are doing, only makes the task seem does a fantastic job preparing its students more daunting. for future careers both inside and out of the 
Of the 12 members of the Observer Edito-classroom, Arts & Letters students gain little resource for those willing to seek out its assistance. 
The Center’s advisors have helped countless students to find jobs outside of the Career Fair and will continue to do so. 
It is easy to be stressed as those around you secure their post-graduation plans, but jobs exist beyond 

rial Board, only one currently has a job offer for after graduation. We are comprised of one gradu­ate student, seven seniors, including one from Saint Mary’s, three juniors and one sophomore and represent 18 different majors, ranging from Arts & Letters to Business to pre­med. 
Of these 12 people, only three even considered going to yesterday’s Career Fair. The prevailing thought amongst us, and amongst a large population of the Notre Dame student body, is that there is no point in going to the career fair. 
Even with so many companies attending, there are few that hold career prospects or interest for students with interests outside of business or engineering. While large groups of students in business attire wandered through the Joyce Center Fieldhouse handing out resumes and meeting company representatives, many sat at home, discouraged at their lack of job prospects. 
Engineers had their career fair Tuesday, architecture students will have theirs in March and last night served much of the business school and a selection of Arts & Let­ters majors. 
The Fall Career Fair offered fantastic opportunities for students interested in industries such as finance, banking and technology. However, for students hoping to pursue careers outside of these fields, the night offered few draws. 
Unfortunately, the Fall Career Fair has always held more opportunities for business majors. While Arts & Letters students can look forward to a service fair and the Winter Career and Internship Fair, the pressure and prevailing attitude on campus to find a job now is overwhelming. And with employment rates still running low, especially for recent college graduates, it’s no wonder students who don’t have a business major feel the pressure to choose some­thing more “practical.” 
For students following career paths outside of those represented at the Fair, the Career Center is a fantastic 
of this insight during their course work. Even for those seeking a post-graduate degree, little help is offered. 
The Career Center does offer resources for those apply­ing to graduate schools, but with the multitude of fields that make up the College of Arts & Letters, it would be difficult for the Career Center to have a good handle on each one. 
Currently the best way for a Notre Dame student applying to graduate programs to find help is to contact a professor directly, someone who has gone through the process before. 
The Career Center, the College itself or the individual departments should be making more of an effort to facilitate this mentoring. 
The College of Arts & Letters, as well as the departments under its umbrella, should consider taking a page from Mendoza’s book — tell your students a career exists for them outside the classroom and how the skills they have developed within their major are beneficial across many industries. 
Encourage students to explore the countless jobs available and cultivate more resources and connections to aid them as the business, engineering and architecture schools do. 
Similarly, offer more assistance and resources for those applying to graduate programs or preparing for other post­graduate opportunities. 
Arts & Letters majors often feel intimidated when prepar­ing for graduation and incompetent compared to their peers who secure jobs so early in the year. 
These students are capable and the opportunities exist, but without the same degree of assistance offered to so many other majors and career focuses, Arts & Letters majors, or any student unsure of their future career, often feel stuck. 
With more resources, better contacts and a greater em­phasis on career exploration, the many campus departments and institutions could relieve some of this burden and lead their students to greater success and reduced stress in their search for a job. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Remembering Tina 

The world lost an amazing woman Wednesday night. She wasn’t a current student, or a former professor or former college president but that doesn’t mean she is any less de­serving of inches dedicated to her in The Observer. 
Tina Durski has been employed at Notre Dame in vari­ous positions since the 90s, but most recently she was the administrative assistant for the Band of the Fighting Irish. 
I’ve known Tina and her family for the past six years after meeting her daughter, Krista, in Spanish class during my first year at Saint Mary’s. She quickly became my Mom away from home letting us do our laundry at her house and making sure we were well fed. 
Sophomore year, my best friend joined the band and I got to know Tina on a different level. She loved every single person who carried those instruments, no matter if they were band members, band managers or band best friends. I never once walked into her office when she didn’t say hello and genuinely ask how my day was. She always managed to make me laugh and never hesitated to tell me when I was being a little crazy. 
My college experience was what it was because she was 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The secret of happiness is to make others believe they are the cause of it.” 
Al Batt 
U.S. writer and speaker 
a part of it — so many experiences wouldn’t have happened without her. 
Tina was one of the strongest women I know and she fought hard through the end. I feel blessed to have been given time to see her one last time and say goodbye as she pushed herself to attend the infamous Durski tailgate before the USF game. She raised three great children, had an awe­some husband and a job where she got to see a ton of stu­dents who she loved and who loved her each day. If that isn’t the definition of a good life that we should celebrate, I don’t know what is. 
Tina was a mother away from home to all of us, and I’m sure I speak for a lot of people when I say that she will be missed greatly and her loss will be felt immensely. 
Rest in Peace, Tina. Thank you for touching my life and helping make my time at  Saint Mary’s great. 
Liz Harter 
Class of ‘09, Former Saint Mary’s Editor Cincinnati, OH Sept. 8 




Friday, September 9, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
War weary America 
Go green, earn green 

in the world on military technology. 
Why? If we are not going to use it to rid the world of tyranny and oppres­sion, then what is the point? What is the point of having an all-volunteer military that can fight three wars plus pirates plus drug cartels, while the rest of us go about our business? Is America going to take advantage of its blessings to share peace and wealth with other nations, or will America greedily hoard its blessings and hope others follow suit on their own terms? 
The fact is there is still trouble and injustice in the world that I believe the United States can defeat single­handedly, if we only had the courage to try. However, we won’t do that if we engage and get bogged down in con­flicts that eat up resources and don’t show significant results. We’ve tried our hardest in Afghanistan, but noth­ing can save that god-forsaken place at this point in time. One day, Afghani­stan will be rich with the valuable ore locked away in its mountains, and our liberation of its people from the Tali­ban will be a bright spot in its history, but today they are so far behind the rest of the world it doesn’t matter how much money we poor into it. 
We have to leave now. Not a gradual drawdown, but an instant pack up, like Saigon in 1975. Last chopper out. I commend Bush for his compassion­ate effort to try and turn the country around instead of cratering it with a nuclear response, and he made a good run, but it was setup for failure from the beginning. I guess no one clued Obama in to that fact, and unfortu­nately many American families have paid the price since. 
There are new battlefronts opening up where the United States is needed. We must reconsolidate our forces to be able to fully engage in these new loca­tions. The “Arab Spring” was a great opportunity for us to topple many of the enemies of freedom in the Middle East, but I fear that opportunity may have passed us by. We must prepare for the next time, where we can make a real difference in the course of hu­man history. 
These wars are no longer Bush’s wars. Obama has had three years to end the conflicts (like everyone thought he would) and instead he has either escalated them or has been extremely timid in drawing down our troop strength. It is a fantasy to believe that he deserves his Nobel peace prize after what we have witnessed over the course of his term. The takeaway from this: If you inherited a war you don’t agree with, don’t keep fighting it. American blood is too precious to waste on combat without a mission. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
Love me or hate me, but don’t call me a liar. One of my critics recently attacked the truthfulness of my last piece. I do believe in and practice jour­nalistic integrity even though I am not a journalist.  I am an editorialist, and in my opinion columns I don’t have enough space to stick in a source. It ruins the flow. 
But this time I will make an exception so I can curb stomp these vile allegations against my good name. According to icasultie.org, which mirrors closely De­partment of Defense official numbers, the following are combat deaths in Operation Enduring Freedom.  2008: 155. 2009: 317. 2010: 499. 2011: 310. A summation of these numbers gives you a total of 1,281 KIAs in Afgani­stan. In Operation Iraqi Freedom from 2008-present the number is 576 KIAs. 
So actually, I was being quite con­servative with President Obama about his total body count. If even one Ameri­can life is valuable, then these Obama wars have been very costly. 
Now I do this not just to clear my name and put egg on the face of an­other liberal know-nothing, but also to illustrate a bigger point I have. 
America is tired of wars without a mission. We want swift and decisive engagements if we must have them. These aren’t just numbers, these are people we are talking about. When you graduate, some of your classmates will go off to fight for us overseas. They will be put in danger and their lives and their friend’s lives will be at risk. People we know now, people we eat with at the dining hall and go to class with, could potentially be slain in some hell hole far away from home. 
But they signed up to do it anyway because they have a higher calling to service. I don’t want to see their sacri­fice wasted, and I certainly don’t want their lives cut short with a one way ticket home in a casket. We have a duty to use our military to promote freedom abroad and protect it at home, but we also have a duty to our countrymen to not waste their commitment to our shared defense with pointless engage­ments. 
I am the biggest war hawk I know. Not only do I believe the United States should intervene abroad to promote freedom and democracy, but we are obligated to do so. Soldiers don’t sign up for the military so they can sit around the base and drink beers and blow stuff up once in a while. They sign up to fight and eliminate the ene­mies of America and free people of the world, and to protect our citizens and our peace-loving and rarely committed allies. We spend the most out of anyone 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Caution appreciated 


At last night’s career fair, did you find that perfect match — an exciting and inspiring company that will launch your career? While I hope many of you did, I’m also sure there is a large group of you Rachel Novick wondering, “What do I do now?” The GreenMan 
Maybe the compa­nies sounded dull, maybe you didn’t make a great connec­tion with the representative or maybe you just felt like something was missing. Notre Dame students are known for their commitment to service and active involvement in the community. We want to feel that our work has a purpose, that we are doing some good for those around us. Domers are also known for being high achievers, with a tremendous drive to succeed professionally. 
Now this could be a bit bold for me to say, but maybe, just maybe, a focus on sustainability was what was missing from your night at the Career Fair. 
Making sustainability part of your work clearly would give you an opportu­nity to contribute to the common good, but did you know that companies with an emphasis on sustainability also tend to outperform the market? Companies focused on identifying ways to reduce their reliability on limited resources are truly at an advantage. 
Many American companies have claimed a seat in the Global 100, the Global Responsible Investment Net­work’s list of the most sustainable corporations in the world. Some of the better-known ones include: Johnson and Johnson (2nd worldwide), Intel (6th worldwide), GE (11th worldwide), Proc­tor and Gamble, Kraft Foods, PG&E. 
Some of these companies were present last night, but maybe you didn’t even give them a thought. I can’t really blame you, after all, who knew that Johnson and Johnson was so much more than baby shampoo? There are some of you, however, who are looking for more than a corporation with a strong sustain­ability policy. You may want to consider working for a company that is solely focused on promoting practical sustain­able products or services. You don’t nec­essarily need a background in sustain­ability per se to realize this dream. 
No matter what your skills, you can usually find a way to apply them in this field. You could be a web developer or 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Dear Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students, 
Thank you for your cooperation and courtesy as you exited the stands and waited patiently for the game to resume last Saturday. 
Your safety is a foundational concern for us.  While you may occasionally feel that our abundance of caution is overly paternal, it is important that you recog­nize that there are occasions or patterns of danger that you cannot see. 
It took approximately 17 minutes to evacuate (most) of the stadium. The dramatic bolt of lightning west of the stadium (that precipitated its total evacuation) was the visual and audi­tory evidence of our officials’ concerns. What you couldn’t have seen were the other 334 lightning strikes within a 10-mile radius of Notre Dame during the two game delays. The closest strike was 7/10ths of a mile from the stadium and carried an electric current of about 20,000 amps — some 100,000 times the lethal dose. 
I bring this to your attention to affirm project manager for a green company, work as an architect to design efficient buildings, get into socially responsible investing, design eco-friendly furniture, be a copywriter for a green brand, or my personal favorite, be a baker at an eco­friendly bakery! Go online and search for sustainable companies and job posi­tions and you’ll be surprised at all of the possibilities that will pop up. 
And for those of you who are even more awesome, I should mention that there are many jobs out there that focus exclusively on sustainability as their main practice. Many companies have de­veloped a corporate social responsibility position which encompasses sustainabil­ity, while others have a sustainability manager responsible for greening all aspects of operations. 
Starbucks is one such company.  The CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) team at Starbucks is largely responsible for maintaining the company’s emphasis on Fair Trade coffee, and ethical means of procurement are a critical component of sustainability. In addition, Starbucks has committed to making their cups recyclable, using more post-consumer materials, and designing all new stores up to LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) standards. (I realize I may have just justified your second Starbucks run of the day. Sorry for feeding the habit!) The upshot is, if you’re faced with looming career choices and looking for a way to make a differ­ence, consider sustainability. 
Whether you get a job at a company with sustainability as a business strat­egy, or with a green-minded company or non-profit, or even as a CSR consul­tant that helps other corporations make more eco-friendly choices, you can make a huge contribution to improving our world for the next generation. 
Maybe this was a shameless plug, maybe not. Maybe those four shots of espresso this morning were a bad idea. A large majority of you probably didn’t even go to the Career Fair ... Oh well. Until next time, stay green, stay Irish. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Email your predicaments to the GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail. com and let him answer you with a sus­tainable twist. 
the importance of your cooperation with emergency warnings. Equally criti­cal is your respect for occasions when we simulate emergencies and practice life-saving responses. When University safety officials issue an alert about any emergency — via text, phone, e-mail, the Web, or the campus-wide public ad­dress system — you can be sure that the danger is real or the practiced response is essential to your safety. We ask you to continue responding in the general man­ner you did on Saturday. 
Please be perpetually conscious of your own well-being, and in the spirit of Notre Dame, be equally concerned for the safety of those around you. 
Rev. Thomas P. Doyle 
Vice President Student Affairs Sept. 8
 Mike Seamon
 Associate Vice President Campus Safety Sept. 8 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, September 9, 2011 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer

   Football Saturdays are some of the best days at Notre Dame, without a doubt.  But even that doesn’t mean the weekends we don’t have home turf advantage can’t be just as epic.  Whether you are watching the game in South Bend, the Big House or any other venue, here are some tips to make your weekend memorable and amazing. 
What to Eat 

Sustenance is a hugely important part of any day, but especially game days, when you might be tailgating in triple-digit tempera­tures or sitting through a rainy game. The right food will help keep your energy up dur­ing the whole game and help avert rough Sunday mornings.  And don’t you want your strength for the pushups we will all hope­fully be doing in excess tomorrow?  For those of you staying home and watching the game, chili is a great option.  This delicious stew is a great crowd-pleaser and easy to make for all the friends gathered in your living or common room. 
If you are heading to an opposing stadium, pack your grill and brats.  Tailgating is a fantastic way to meet rival fans and engage in friendly competitions to prove the worth of your team.  Furthermore, the proximity to enemy fans provides excellent opportunities for heckling them — in a friendly manner, of course — for their poor taste in sports teams. Food inside the stadium or at nearby restau­rants may be expensive or subject to long lines, so tailgating is the way to go. 
Where to Watch 
If you are headed up to the Big House with a ticket this weekend, or to any away game this season, you are one of the chosen few.  Enjoy your time in enemy territory and keep up the spirit even amidst rabid opposing fans.  For those without a ticket, going to a local bar is a great alternative.  This option may only be for those 21+, depending on the rules of the pub. However if that is you, going to bars is a great way to enjoy all the fun an away game has to offer. You can meet the locals, still en­gage in some friendly taunting and watch the game from inside if the weather goes foul. 
If you are staying in South Bend for the away game, don’t fret; you can still have a fantastic Saturday.  Gather your friends in your apart­ment or dorm room, if space allows.  If it doesn’t, rally the troops in one of the lounges in your dorm.  Assign different people differ­ent snack items to bring, from chips to salsa, soda to brownies. As long as your friends and delicious snacks surround you, you will have a great time — sure to be even better if the Irish do well. 
How to Watch 
If you are headed to the game, make all of us proud with your cheers, jeers and Irish pride.  Wear The Shirt into the stadium.  Fly your ND flag from your car.  Sing along to the band.  Whatever you do, just make sure the opposing team knows the Fighting Irish faithful are there en masse.  And if you are in enemy territory but not necessarily inside the stadium, make sure your fellow bar-oc­cupants are fully aware of your allegiances. Do push-ups inside the establishment if nec­essary. 
If you are at home watching the game on TV, don’t let your enthusiasm wane even though the team can’t see it.  Wear your favorite memorabilia to show your Irish pride.  Dec­orate your dorm room or apartment with Irish-themed ornaments from the local Dol­lar Store or Christmas Tree Shop.  The team may not be able to see your fanaticism, but they can feel it.  Keep up the spirit in and outside your domicile.  Don’t let it fade even if they Irish suffer a rough half. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
By PATRICK MCMANUS 
Scene Writer 

Some movies move us. Some movies make us think. Some movies make us question what it means to be human. “Wet Hot American Summer” is not one of those movies. 
The film earned the ire of critics and failed to make an impact at the box office upon its release in 2001, but has since become a cult classic. Written by Michael Showalter and David Wain, directed by Wain and featuring an all-star comedy cast, “Wet Hot American Summer” is a sa­tiric homage to summer camp mov­ies in the tradition of the classic Bill Murray film “Meatballs.” 
“Wet Hot American Summer” fol­lows the events of August 18, 1981— the last day at Camp Firewood for the many kids and counselors. The camp’s inhabitants seek to end their summer on a high note. 
Wain and Showalter, both alums of the early ‘90s MTV sketch com­edy show “The State” and the Com­edy Central series “Stella,” made the movie a family affair. They brought in Michael Ian Black, a fellow veteran from both series to play McKinley, and Ken Marino from “The State” to play Vic­tor. Marino is perhaps best known for his star­ring turn as Ron in the Starz original se­ries “Party Down.” 
The film is chocked full of cur­rent -day big names. “Wet Hot American Sum­mer” features Paul Rudd and Eliza­beth Banks, who reunited with di­rector David Wain for 2008’s “Role Models.” The cast also includes alter­native comedian Janeane Garafalo, David Hyde Pierce of “Fraiser” fame, “SNL” cast member Molly Shannon, Judah Friedlander from “30 Rock,” the immensely talented Amy Poehler, 


and the recent­ly-mint­ed star Bradley Cooper. 
“We t Hot” is a very po­larizing movie. Accord­ing to mov­ie -re­viewing website Rotten Tomatoes, the film currently holds a 19% Fresh rating with the Top Crit­ics, while 83% of audience members liked it. Tom Maurstad of the “Dallas Morning News” deemed the movie, “an almost laughless bomb,” while 
Sean Axmaker of the “Seattle Post-Intelligencer” called it “harmless, amiably entertaining and completely pointless.” Although even the film’s good reviews were not especially flattering, any audience can enjoy a pointless, funny movie. 
While “Wet Hot American Sum­mer” is not the best work of any of its actors, the ensemble cast turns in admirable performances in this summer camp farce that does any­thing but take itself seriously. For moviegoers who enjoy recognizing people from other things, hearing camp stories or taking a lightheart­ed comedic trek down memory lane, “Wet Hot American Summer” is a movie you might want to check out. 
“Wet Hot American Summer” is playing at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Saturday at 11:59 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and are available online at performingarts. nd.edu. 


Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 


Friday, September 9, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 9, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Obsession with ranks 
This is the fifth of a new Observer feature. A series of 10 Observer sportswriters will have columns appear in this space on a bi-weekly rotation. Hopefully some of these writers will grab your attention, and you’ll know when and where to find more of their thoughts. 
Sports fans, analysts and commentators today are obsessed with rankings. In an age of the ESPYs and Top Plays, of Web Gems and the BCS, all teams, all players, all plays and all achieve­ments are ranked. 
ESPN makes a ranking of not only college football teams, which while subjective still mat­ters to some degree, but the teams in each of the ‘Big Four’ professional sports on a weekly basis, which are purely subjective and specu­lative, and which play no role whatsoever in the leagues themselves. Today’s sports fan is obsessed with trying to answer the question of “who/ what/where is the best?” 
Never was this more clear than during the 2011 NBA Playoffs. Yes, the LeBron­choked-Wade-is-the-best­player-of-the-Big-Three-or­is-it-Big-Two the obsession with ranking, not that Dirk was one of many players subjected to it. 

If I were to ask if Michael Jordan was one of the top-5 basketball players of all-time, the answer would undoubt­edly be resoundingly af­firmative. What about Wilt Chamberlain? Of course. Bill Russell? Kareem Abdul-Jab­bar? Naturally. Larry Bird? Magic Johnson? That’s six players already. So, though the answer to the question “Is Kareem Abdul-Jabbar among the top-five players of all-time?” seems obvious, it isn’t. He’s one of the top-six, but that’s as much as can be said. 
It is easy to haphazardly assign ranks to players or 
teams without putting 
much thought into it. But 
by this point, professional 
sports have a long history 
and it is very tempting to 
rank current events higher 
than older ones – they’re 
more fresh in our minds. 
But too often claims are made with no real basis and with very little actual thought behind them. 
Why does it matter who is the greatest quarterback of all-time (clearly it’s John Elway)? Who cares which team is the best dynasty of the 2000s (it has to be the Patriots and their three rings)? The Mt. Rushmore of Sports (Michael Jordan, Wayne Gretzky, Babe Ruth and Muhammad Ali)? What are we doing? 
Sports are by nature objec­tive. One team wins and one team loses, 


2011 NBA based on how 
But too often claims are 
Playoffs. But many points 
made with no real basis 
the ranking they score. 
and with very little actual 
didn’t have But it is also 
anything thought behind them. incredibly 
double with two outs 
“It was nice to see 
and Mar-in the first. 
[pitcher Mike Minor] 
tin Prado Making his 
not spook — for lack of 
had an RBI 12th start this 
a better word — and 
single in year, Minor the first. give us a nice outing.” was tagged Jason for a two-out 
Heyward Fredi Gonzalez grand slam had the in the bottom 
Braves’ manager 
to do with LeBron or the Big Three — analysts, and by proxy fans, were obsessed with finding Dirk Nowitzki’s rank in the history of the NBA. 
I heard Nowitzki called one of the top-50 players of all-time, one of the top-20, one of the top-15 and even one of the top-10. On the surface, some of these claims seem quite reasonable. Certainly he is one of the top-50, and even top-20 is possible. But the claim that Dirk Nowitzki and his now one NBA title is one of the top-10 basketball players of all-time is ludi­crous. 
This column is not meant to bash Dirk. He is an incredible player who had a post-season for the ages. The problem is subjective. 
The strike zone in baseball, charges in basketball and pass interfer­ence calls in football all rely on the subjective judgment of an official. Sports analy­sis relies almost entirely on the subjective opinion of so-called experts. Subjectiv­ity is not something that can be, nor should be, removed from the world of sports. Just take a minute to think about something before you claim it to be true. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Eric Prister is a graduate student in theological studies. He can be reached at eprister@nd.edu. 
MLB 
Braves inch closer to wild card 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Chipper Jones earned himself anoth­er turn in the two-hole. 
Jones looked real com­fortable starting as the No. 2 batter for the first time since 1996, hitting a double and homer and helping the Atlanta Braves snap a three-game skid with a 6-5 victory over the New York Mets on Thursday in the first game of a doubleheader made nec­essary by the threat of Hur­ricane Irene. 
The Braves were forced to make a quick stop in New York to play two games post­poned Aug. 27-28 after be­ing handed their first three-game sweep of the season, by the Phillies. They next head to St. Louis for a cru­cial set against the team trailing them in the wild­card race. Only several hun­dred fans were on hand to see the start of the twinbill at 4:10 p.m. 
Atlanta manager Fredi Gonzalez tried shaking up his scuffling club, losers of five of six over all coming in, by stacking his top on-base percentage guys up front. 
“We got some productivity up there, we got some people getting on base.” Gonzalez said. “It was a good three-run first.” 
Jones and his teammates responded with their big­gest offensive output in six games. Cleanup hitter Fred­die Free­man hit a two -run crew, holding propane tanks, dried areas of the infield us­ing portable heat torches while others applied a dry­ing agent to the dirt. 
Not long after, a matchup of young starters got off to a rough start. Mike Minor (5­
2) settled down first, though. 
“It was nice to see him not spook — for lack of a better word,” Gonzalez said, “and give us a nice outing.” 
Schwinden (0-1) gave up three runs ran through the clubhouse before the game in a football referee’s uniform, blowing a whistle and throwing a yel­low flag at teammates, en­tered with the bases loaded and hit Michael Bourn with a pitch to make it 6-4. Byr­dak struck out Jones to end the inning. 
The run was needed, be­cause Nick Evans hit a sacri­fice fly off Jonny Venters in the bottom half. 
Schwinden, a 22nd round draft pick in 2008, went 8-8 with a 3.95 ERA for Triple-A Buffalo this year. He retired his first better then gave up a double to Jones and walked Brian McCann. Dan Uggla grounded out and Freeman doubled in two runs and move to third on the throw home. Martin Prado followed with an RBI single. 
“The nerves took over a bit. It kind of messed with my mechanics,” said Schwin­den, whose dad was at the game. 
After Minor got two easy flyouts to start the bottom half, Lucas Duda singled, David Wright doubled and Angel Pagan walked. Bay followed with his second grand slam of the season and fourth of his career. 
“Curveball, flipped it in there,” Minor said. “Shoulda went after him with a fast­ball and made him hit it.” 
The 24-year-old right-hander gave up four runs and seven hits in five in­nings. 
go-ahead hit, an RBI single in the third off Chris Schwinden, mak­ing his major league debut. Jones tied it with his 48th homer against the Mets leading off the third, his most against any opponent. 
Jose Reyes led off the ninth with a pinch-hit single off Craig Kimbrel, but the closer extended his rookie record by retiring the next three for his 43rd save. 
Jason Bay hit a grand slam for New York, which had won 10 of 13. 
After two days of continu­ous rain in New York, mem­bers of the Citi Field grounds half. He was 
nicked for just 
four more hits 
in five innings while Schwinden gave up two more runs and left trail­ing 5-4 after throwing 100 pitched in his five. 
“I think it was probably nerves more than anything,” Mets manager Terry Collins said. “I’ve seen him pitch enough to know that his command is always pretty good. I’m sure he was just a little nervous today. He left some balls up in the zone that they hit pretty hard.” 
The Braves scored a run in the eighth with a single, two walks and a hit batter. Mets reliever Tim Byrdak, who 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
FOR RENT  PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  TICKETS  BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY GAMES - GAs only. Call 574-277­ Ryan: Did this happen on company property?  
Don’t go at it alone. Notre Dame  1659  
has many resources in place to  Michael Scott: It was on company  
assist you.   Dwight Schrute: “Would I ever  property, with company property.  
Newly renovated 5 BR home half  BIBLE STUDY GROUP.   USC Ticket Raffle  leave this company? Look, I’m all  So, double jeopardy, we’re fine.  
mile from campus.   If you or someone you love needs  The dream of the Irish is alive in  about loyalty. In fact, I feel like part  
confidential support or assistance,  Portland! Portland ND Club is  of what I’m being paid for here is  
10 lesson covering entire Bible in 1  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  raffling 2 USC tickets/2 nights’  my loyalty.  Ryan: I don’t think-- I don’t think  
Great weekend rental for all home  hour sessions.  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.   hotel. Drawing on Sept. 10. $25/1  you understand how jeopardy  
games, JPW, graduation.  entry, $100/5 entries.   But if there were somewhere else  works.  
For more information, visit  that valued loyalty more highly, I’m  
ND’s website at: http://  Enter online at www.ndportland.  going wherever they value loyalty  Michael Scott: Oh, I’m sorry. What  
Call 574-250-2600  Call Tom 574-876-8928  pregnancysupport@nd.edu  org Email NDPortland@gmail.com  the most.”  is, ‘we’re fine’?  

Friday, September 9, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 

Tuck’s neck is Giants’ latest injury concern 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — The banged up New York Giants’ defense has another injury to worry about, and this involves two-time Pro Bowl defensive end Justin Tuck. 
The Giants defensive cap­tain didn’t practice Thursday because of a sore neck, and he indicated he would not play in the season opener against the Redskins in Washington unless it improved. 
“I am concerned but I am not panicked,” Tuck said. “Like I said, it has not healed as fast as I wanted to. I am not panicked by it. It is getting better, just not as fast as I want it to.” 
Tuck, who was limited in practice on Wednesday, suffered a stinger in a preseason game against the New York Jets on Aug. 29. While the injury feels better, he still has some local­ized pain. 
“I have played through more pain,” he said. “It’s kind of eerie when you are talking about your neck.” 
Tuck has talked to Giants line­backer Mathias Kiwanuka about dealing with a neck injury. Ki­wanuka missed most of last sea­son with a herniated cervical disk. 
Tuck insists his injury is not as bad as Kiwanuka’s, but he does not want to risk his season to play in the opener. 
“But if I am ready to play, I am going to strap it on and play,” he said. 
There are times that the medi­cal personnel will tell a player that he can play because it won’t make the injury worse. Tuck said that’s not true in his situa­tion. 
“I have played through a lot of stuff, hopefully, I can play through this one,” said Tuck, who played with a torn labrum against Tampa Bay in 2009. 
Kiwanuka advised Tuck to be cautious. 
“I tell everybody that has a neck issue, better safe than sor­ry,” Kiwanuka said. “One of the best things that helped me out was that as soon as I felt symp­toms, I had it checked out imme­diately, otherwise I’d be in a very different predicament right now. I think erring on the side of cau­tion is a must in that situation.” 
Tuck said that he does not need a lot of practice time to be ready to play, noting he has been in­volved in all the walkthroughs, the team meetings and knows the Redskins well from playing them twice a season throughout his career. 
The Giants have already lost cornerback Terrell Thomas and middle linebacker Jonathan Goff to season-ending knee injuries and defensive tackle Marvin Austin, their second-round draft pick, is out with a torn pectoral muscle. 
Fellow two-time Pro Bowl defensive end Osi Umenyiora is rehabilitating his knee after ar­throscopic surgery and will not play in the opener. First-round draft pick Prince Amukamara, a cornerback, is out with a broken foot. 
Defensive coordinator Per­ry Fewell insisted his defense would not be limited by the injuries. He admitted he has modified some things in the Redskins’ gameplan because of Goff’s injury, but noted the next player on the depth chart has to step up and do the job. 
At middle linebacker, that would be rookie Greg Jones. If Tuck can’t go, the Giants could either switch Kiwanuka from linebacker to end, start Chris Canty at end instead of tackle or simply go with veteran Dave Tollefson at end. 
“We’re ready,” Fewell said. “We’re going down there to win a football game Sunday and we’re not crying. We’re locked. We’re loaded. This is a good challenge for us. We’ll be ready to play football.” 
Fewell said Tuck has been get­ting better every day. 
“If he plays,” Fewell said, “it will be a bonus for us.” 



page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 9, 2011 
Berticelli 
continued from page 16 
Saint Louis in double overtime. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark is hoping for more consistency on the defensive end of the field this weekend. 
“We’ve got to be much more stingy in the back,” Clark said. “We need to get a little bit better at not giving up goals, because in both games we played very well. But when you’ve dominat­ed two games and you’ve given up three goals, that doesn’t make a lot of sense.” 
Improved defense will be especially critical against the Pioneers (0-1-1), who utilize an aggressive offensive attack. 
“I know Denver will be well-organized,” Clark said. “They’ll be quite a physical team and they’re fairly direct. They get the ball forward; they get the ball into your box. And that’s something that we’ll obviously have to take care of.” 
Though the defense did not play up to Clark’s liking, the Irish offense had an impres­sive weekend — headlined by the four-goal outburst against the Flyers — something he hopes will continue in the next two contests. 
“I was obviously pleased with the goal surge against Dayton,” Clark said. “And even in the game against Saint Lou­is, we played a man short for most of the second half when [junior forward] Ryan Finley was given a red card, but we still generated 22 shots. So from that perspective, it was positive.” 
Bucknell (2-1) also poses a potent threat to the Irish, com­ing into the weekend on a two-game winning streak. Clark, however, is not directly con­cerned with the Bison at the moment. 
“We’ll have a look at Bucknell on Friday night when they play Indiana, so we’ll have a bet­ter idea on Saturday on them,” Clark said. “But we’re pretty much focused on the Denver game right now, because that’s the game that comes first.” 
One advantage the Irish hope to carry into this weekend and the rest of the season is their developed team chemistry, formed largely during summer workouts. 
“There was about half the team here taking summer school classes and also play­ing together, so I think that’s really kept a little continuity to it,” junior midfielder Dillon Powers said. “And I think like we feel we’re further along in our ability to play on the field than we have been at this stage in the past few years, so that’s a good sign.” 
That chemistry, along with strong overall play, has been on display so far this year. 
Clark hopes it’s able to trans­late into more victories. 
“We’re looking for a good all-around performance,” Clark said. “I thought we got that last weekend, we just didn’t get the two results. We got one result, but we didn’t get the other. I think if we can do the same as we did last week, but actually defend a little bit better as a group, and [make] some of our shots on the goal, we can go home pretty happy.” 
The Irish square off against Denver at 7:30 p.m. Friday and face Bucknell at 2 p.m. Sunday, with both games taking place in Alumni Stadium. 


Contact Sam Gans at              sgans@nd.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
their first three matches of the season, coasting to a sweep of the Shamrock Invitational and a 3-0 record. Brown hopes that last weekend’s hiccups against highly-ranked Stan­ford and St. Mary’s (Calif.) will prove to be just a slight setback over the course of the long sea­son. Though two more weeks of matches separate the Irish from Big East play and the likes of Georgetown and Villanova, Brown is quick to point out that there is no preseason. 

“You’ll get into trouble if you ever start looking ahead on your schedule, whether that be to Big East play, the NCAA tournament or anything else,” Brown said. “We have to take it one match at a time. Every one counts.” 
While every opponent cer­tainly has to be respected, Brown and the Irish are much more concerned with their own play, particularly with an offense that has struggled at times early this season. Asked what to expect out of the oppo­sition this weekend, Brown was content to keep her focus on her own squad. 
“We’re focusing on us more than on our opponents,” Brown said. “And that means improv­ing our offense. We have a lot of work to do, but I’ve really liked a lot of what I’ve seen this week.” 
Any discussion of perfor­mance on offense has to start with the duo of sophomore An­drea McHugh and freshman Jeni Houser. McHugh, reign­ing Big East rookie of the year, and Houser, named to the all-tournament team last weekend at Stanford, have registered 71 and 53 kills respectively this season to lead the team. 
The team returns to the court this Friday at the Joyce Center against Lipscomb at 7 p.m. 

Contact Conor Kelly at                 ckelly17@nd.ed 
Scodro 
continued from page 16 
Gopher Invitational and 15th at the NCAA Championships. The Razorbacks are led by sophomore Sebastian Cap­pelen, who finished second in individual competition at the Invitational last year. Cappelen was ranked at No. 25 at the end of his freshman year and had a stroke aver­age of slightly under 72 last year, a Razorbacks best for the 2010-2011 season. 
Joining Arkansas as one of the favorites is No. 19 Iowa, coming off a record-setting season where it finished tied for 10th at the NCAA Cham­pionships last year. The Hawkeyes fashion a senior-laden lineup headed by Chris Brant. Brant finished seventh in last year’s Gopher Invita­tional and posted the second-lowest average score in pro­gram history. 
Filling out the field is Hous­ton, one of college golf’s most storied programs with 16 NCAA titles. 
Yet despite the heightened sense of competition, Kubinski has seen his group progress in training and is optimistic that his unranked squad can steal a win this weekend. 
“We had a great round to­day.  If we play this weekend like we have been during prac­tice and qualifying, I’m confi­dent that we’ll have a good chance to win this weekend,” he said. “[Our starters] have all been shooting around 70 recently, so we’re feeling great about our top five. We’ve been playing some very difficult courses, but they’ve been play­ing very well.” 
The Irish head to the Spring Hill Golf Club in Wayzata, Minn. for the Gopher Invita­tional on Sunday to start the fall season. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at     agastelum@nd.edu 


NASCAR 

Bowyer to leave RCR next season 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. — It doesn’t sound as if Clint Bowyer will be back with Richard Childress Racing next season. 
Neither driver or car owner delcared talks totally over, but both sounded Thursday as if there’s little chance they’ll come to an agreement to keep Bowyer behind the wheel of the No. 33 Chevrolet after this year. 
Childress even referred to Bowyer in the past tense several times while talking about the driver in an an interview on Siri­usXM NASCAR Radio. 
“You know, we’ve tried and we’ve really worked really hard to put the deal together to keep Clint,” Childress said. “It’s not 100 percent off the table, but it’s getting tougher and tougher as the day goes by. Clint’s got a cou­ple of really good opportunities there facing him. We just, for us, it just didn’t seem that we could get everything worked out. 

“Clint’s still a good friend. I want the best for him.” 
Bowyer has repeatedly said he wants a three-year contract extension to stay with RCR, but talks have seemed strained over the last month. Bowyer two weeks ago even expressed frustration over the free agency process and lashed out at how he was being characterized in the media of late. 
He called Childress’ Thursday comments “fair” and said there’s no updates in his situation. Bow-yer made his Cup debut with Childress in 2005 and has won four races in 206 career starts. 
“There’s opportunities and stuff we’re just trying to weigh out and, again, you’ve got to have all the stars line up,” Bowyer said. “You can’t just have one piece of the puzzle or a couple pieces of the puzzle. You have to have the whole puzzle put to­gether and that’s how you do that in today’s world and you’re wast­ing your time talking about it to any media because you don’t re­ally have anything to deliver to them.” 

Bowyer’s long-term future uncertain, he seemed to have a good indication of the present: He declared his chances of mak­ing the Chase for the Sprint Cup championship over. 
“Even if we win, it’s still, good God, I think it takes a mathema­tician to make all the stars lined up, so I’m not really worried
.about [the Chase],” Bowyer said 




page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 9, 2011 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Irish senior defender Ellen Jantsch makes a tackle during Notre Dame’s 7-1 win over Tulsa on Sept. 2. 

Waldrum 
continued from page 16 
for us.” 
The Irish defeated Santa Clara (3-0-2) by a score of 1-0 last sea­son with a goal just 3:05 into the game. Santa Clara senior goal­keeper Bianca Henninger re­corded six saves in the game and is one of several returning start­ers on the Broncos’ roster. 
Waldrum said he was able to prepare his team for both Stan­ford and Santa Clara all week in practice because the two teams run a similar system. 
“The interesting thing about this weekend is that both teams out west play with the same system and same formation, so there are no surprises there,” he said. “[Santa Clara sophomore midfielder Julie] Johnston played on the under-20 national team. She’s really been a thorn in our side; she came to South Bend [last year] and played really well against us.” 
On its last road trip — also against two ranked opponents — Notre Dame came away 0-2 after dropping its first game against top-ranked North Carolina and falling to No. 10 Duke in a Sun­day matinee. Waldrum said the key to a successful weekend will be to stay focused and mentally confident. 
“It’s so hard to play Friday and Sunday physically, but it’s tough especially against high-level teams,” he said. “Being mentally and physically prepared is huge. We didn’t come out and perform the second day last time, so we are trying to come out and per­form the entire weekend.” 
Senior forward Melissa Hen­derson agreed that confidence will play an important role in re­turning home with two wins. 
“Confidence [is key], and I think we need to realize going in that we’re capable of doing it,” she said. “We need to believe in one another, come together and really play for one another, play for our school.” 
The Irish outscored their op­ponents 11-2 over the weekend, and Henderson alone netted four goals. Waldrum said the Irish will have to continue to be patient near the goal and take advantage of good shot oppor­tunities. 
“I was happy offensively [this past weekend] with creat­ing more chances and scoring more goals,” he said. “[Santa Clara] probably [has] the best goalkeeper in the country in Bi­anca.” 
The Irish defense remains on the top of the list of priorities, however, as the team continues to search for a permanent goal­keeper. 
“We’ve been working on de­fense still, and we’ve got to get goalkeeping up,” Waldrum said. “We gave up two goals this weekend, and we’ve got to be better than we are.” 
Opponents have scored seven goals on the Irish thus far, five more than the defense had al­lowed five games into the sea­son last year, when they went on to win their third national championship. 
Senior defender Jessica Schuveiller insisted that the de­fense is ready to work together and play for the entire weekend. 
“Just collectively as a team, we need to be better at all-around defense and playing to­gether as a group,” she said. “I think no matter who we have on the field at a time, we just have to have a mentality that no one’s going to get past us. We have to really support each other when we’re on the field together.” 
The Irish will face Stanford on Friday at 10:30 p.m., and they will return to action at Santa Clara on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. 


Contact Megan Golden at        mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
Calvin 
continued from page 16 
“Calvin is a very tall, physical team,” Kuschel said. “We will need to hit much better and use their height to our advantage. This will be a great match if we show up and play our game.” 
Even though this is the first home game of the year for the Belles, Kuschel says the mental preparation is no different than if it were a road game. 
“It’s always about getting bet­ter every time we step onto the court,” she said. 
Saint Mary’s will rely on strong play from all positions, and will look to players such as junior setter Danie Brink and senior libero/defensive special­ist Meghann Rose, who totaled 14 and 20 digs, respectively, to bolster the defense. Freshman outside hitter Kati Schneider and junior outside hitter Steph­anie Bodien will be looked to for strong offensive play again, as they had 12 and 11 kills Tues­day, respectively. 
The squads will square off at 
7:00 p.m. Friday at the Angela Athletic Center. 


Contact Laura Coletti at              lcoletti@nd.edu 

Friday, September 9, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD 

CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Friday, September 9, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Westward bound 
Irish ready for a pair of California matches 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
An offensive resurgence over the weekend gave No. 8 Notre Dame a refresh as to what is possible before it heads west to face second-ranked Stanford and No. 17 Santa Clara. 
Notre Dame (3-2) will open the weekend against a familiar team in Stanford (4-0-1), which fell 1-0 to the Irish in last sea­son’s national championship. The Cardinal return six start­ers, including sophomore goal­keeper Emily Oliver. 
“They have a great goalkeep­er, and [senior forward] Lind­say Taylor up front is their go-to player,” Irish coach Randy Wal­drum said. “From what we’ve seen of her, she looks really good — [a] really energetic and high-tempo midfielder. They are very good and very profes­sional, like we try to [be] here at Notre Dame. 
They will be a good challenge 
see WALDRUM/page 14 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Team set to return for Invitational 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing 0-2 fin­ish at the Stanford Invitational in California last weekend, the Irish will try to rebound this weekend at home in the Golden Dome Invitational. 
With her team set to take on Lipscomb, the University of Portland and Valparaiso, Irish coach Debbie Brown believes playing at home will help the Irish in a tournament in which taking anything less than three matches would be a disappoint­ment. 
“It’s going to be really nice to be back at the Joyce Center,” Brown said. “We will never use it as an excuse, but travel does wear on you. When it comes to playing at home, we’re on a mis­sion.” 
That mission would be to re­gain the winning ways of two weeks ago as the Irish (3-2) took 
see IRISH/page 12 
MEN’S GOLF 

Two seniors bring leadership, experience to Notre Dame 
By ANDREW GASTELUM Louisville by a margin of six Scodro leads the strong top-50 of Golf World’s list of the Irish will be up against Sports Writer strokes. Irish squad and played this the world’s best college golf-13 other schools from 10 dif-
And for a team that didn’t past summer in the U.S. Ama-ers. ferent conferences, the most 
Notre Dame will kick off lose any starters, the squad’s teur Championships. Scodro “Max has been great so far in the tourney’s seven-year its Big East title defense this expectations go beyond just made the cut and qualified this year,” Irish coach Jim history. This year’s lineup weekend when it heads to the defending their conference in a tightly-contested playoff Kubinski said. “I think his ex-includes Kent State, Liberty University of Minnesota for championship, senior Max round after shooting a 67 on perience this summer [at the University, Charlotte, Penn the seventh annual Gopher Scodro said. the second day. But the senior U.S. Amateur Championships] State, Lamar University, Invitational to open the sea-“Of course we want to re-lost in the next round after he has helped him a lot. I think Wisconsin and Santa Clara, son. peat our Big East champion-drew the No. 1 amateur golfer he’s been between 69 and 73 among others. 
The Irish won their sev-ship, but we didn’t lose any-in the world, UCLA’s Patrick every round this year so far Those others are highlight­enth Big East title last year one from the starting lineup Cantlay. with a lot of sub-seventies. ed by No. 10 Arkansas, who when they cruised to victory so we are going to push for Scodro is also the reigning He’s going to have a great finished third in last year’s at the Big East Championship that national championship,” Big East Player of the Year year.” in May, defeating runner-up Scodro said. and was recently listed in the At the Gopher Invitational, see SCODRO/page 12 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish to host memorial tourney 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a split in a pair of games at the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic in Bloomington, Ind., the No. 14 Irish will look to better their performance in two home games this weekend. 
Notre Dame (1-1-1) hosts the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tour­nament this weekend, with games against No. 20 Denver on Friday and Bucknell on Sun­day. 
The Irish got off to a strong start last weekend with a 4-1 win over Dayton, but could not continue the momentum, drop­ping their next game 2-1 to 
see BERTICELLI/page 12 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles to open up with national champions 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will take on de­fending national champions Calvin in their home opener Friday. 
Saint Mary’s (1-4, 0-1 MIAA) is coming off a 3-1 loss to Kalamazoo on Tuesday. The Belles are looking to rebound from that loss and carry the positive aspects of their per­formance into Friday’s game. 
“We had a great start to the match with a seven-point lead,” Belles coach Toni Kus­chel said. “We need to push and finish the set. We need to eliminate unforced errors.” 
Eliminating errors and min­imizing careless mistakes will be essential in facing a team as talented as the Knights (5­0, 1-0). Not only does Calvin boast a perfect record, but it brings in a team with 12 play­ers at 5’10” or taller, includ­ing sophomore setter Megan Rietma, who stands 6’2” and was recently named the MI­AA’s specialty player of the week for the third time in her career. 
see CALVIN/page 14 




