
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Man forces entry to car; robs student 
Observer staff report 
Police arrested a South Bend man Thursday for threatening a Notre Dame student and forc­ing him to drive through the city and withdraw money from area ATMs. 
Capt. Phil Trent with the South Bend Police Department said Anthony Coleman approached the student around 4 a.m. Tues­day at a Speedway gas station on the 2100 block of South Bend Avenue. 
Coleman, 31, told the student he had a gun and forced him to let him into his car. Police said Coleman directed him to drive to two different ATMs in down­town South Bend and withdraw cash. 
The student drove Coleman to several houses after he with­drew the money, police said. At one point, the student told police that the robber appeared to be smoking a crack pipe after leav­ing one of the homes. 
Trent said the student was afraid to drive away from Cole­man each time the robber got out of his car, but he eventually sped away from Coleman when he walked far enough away 

see ROBBERY/page 6 


Irish shut down Boilers 
By ADAM LLORENS Sophomore Michael Gills students because we were at News Writer said he enjoyed the excit-an away game,” Gills said. ing atmosphere that an away Sophomore Tom O’Brien 
Many Notre Dame students game provides, even if it was a also said he enjoyed the night made the drive to West La-blowout victory. game atmosphere at Purdue’s fayette, Ind., this weekend to “It was not as spirited as a Ross-Ade Stadium. cheer the Irish to a 38-10 vic-home game in the Notre Dame “At the start of the game, tory over in-state rival Pur-student section but there was due. a lot more bonding between see GAME/page 6 


Students  raise funds for research 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Sorin College’s second annual Kick It for Kevin kickball tour­nament Sunday raised enough money to lead to a donation to pediatric cancer research. The tournament is held in memory of former Sorin resident Kevin Healey, who died two years ago after a battle with cancer. 
“Kevin was really a charis­matic person, and a kickball tournament kind of epitomizes the type of guy he was,” Sorin College president, junior An­drew McKernan, said. 
Healey was a member of Notre Dame’s class of 2011 and a Sorin College resident. He died of osteosarcoma, a rare form of bone cancer, in 2009. 
Sorin College vice president junior Max Maier, who orga­nized the event, said the tourna­ment really proved the strength of community present at Notre Dame. 
“I think it says a lot about the men of Sorin College as a whole that we can come together to remember one of our own every year through a fun-loving game of kickball,” Maier said. “I don’t 
see KICKBALL/page 6 

Freshmen explore faith and friendship on retreat 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Coming to Notre Dame from a nonreligious high school, fresh­man Khayla Smith said her con­nection with God was not as strong as she would have liked. After this weekend’s Freshmen Retreat, though, that connection got a little bit stronger. 
“It was definitely something new for me,” she said. “[The retreat] made a lot of relation­ships stronger, both with God and with meeting new people.” 
Director of Freshmen Re­treats Fr. Pete McCormick said the retreat, offered to freshmen twice each semester, gives stu­dents time to concentrate on their faith. 
“The purpose of the retreat is to give freshmen the opportuni­ty to take a break from the hec­tic pace of life and a little bit of time to focus on their faith,” he said. “So often, freshman year, [faith] goes out the window be-
Photo  courtesy of Fr. Pete McCormick 

Freshmen and group leaders huddle together for a photo at the Freshmen Retreat. Freshmen who went on the retreat this weekend focused on making new friendships and strengthening their faith. 

cause there are so many other pressing things.” 
McCormick said the retreat was also intended to help stu­dents establish better relation­ships with their peers and to support one another in facing common challenges. 
“So many of these things — roommates, homesickness, lone­liness — they think it’s unique to them,” he said. “When they meet together they realize it’s a shared experience.” 
The first night of the retreat focused on allowing the stu­dents to get to know one another and share feelings about the freshmen year experience, Mc­Cormick said. The second day focused more on faith and in­cluded an adoration and confes­sion. 
Smith said the trip to the Grot­to was the part of the weekend that had the greatest impact on her. 
see RETREAT/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC community shares support  page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Wilco album review page 10 u Women’s soccer wins twice over the weekend page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU CALL IT — COKE, SODA OR POP? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Molly Sammon Nicole Toczauer Joseph Monardo Christian Myers Walker Carey Graphics Scene Dan Azic Ankur Chawla Photo Viewpoint Pat Coveney Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 67 LOW 55 


Andrew Lynch  Chris Damian  Mary Kate Fidler  John Sontag  Michelle Baranay  Nathalia Conte  
Silvestre  
junior  junior  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  
Morrissey  Siegfried  Farley  Morrissey  Badin  sophomore  
Badin  
“What’s soda?”  “What’s pop?”  “Soda.”  “Soda.”  “Chaser.”  
“Pop.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

School committee chairman apologizes for magic trick 
ABINGTON, Mass. — The chairman of the school com­mittee in Abington, Mass., is apologizing for a magic trick he performed before a televised meeting this week in which he appeared to tear the bra off a fellow commit­tee member through her clothes. 
The trick was performed Tuesday by Russell Fitzger­ald, an amateur magician known to open meetings with a little sleight of hand. It was met with stunned si­lence. 
The Enterprise of Brock-ton reports that Fitzgerald issued a written apology Wednesday. 
He says he is sorry for the embarrassment he caused committee member Ellen Killian and his unwitting accomplice, teacher Steve Shannon. He also says he will no longer perform tricks before meetings. 
Killian says she was shocked. The teachers’ union says in a statement that Shannon was unaware of the trick Fitzgerald planned. 
Trump’s Casino offers plastic surgery-based promotion 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — The latest casino promotion in Atlantic City gives new meaning to “going bust.” 
The Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort plans to give $25,000 worth of plastic surgery to a winner from a player’s card contest. The lucky one can mix and match surgeries including breast enhancements, tum­my tucks, liposuction and face lifts until the total hits $25,000. 
“We wanted to change the face of a typical casino pro­motion, and with this one we are literally doing it,” said Kathleen McSweeney, senior vice president of marketing for Trump Entertainment Resorts. 
“Many people have some­thing they want to change; a nip and tuck here, a lift there, but the cost of these procedures can be quite costly,” she said. “This pro­motion will allow the winner the opportunity to get the procedures of their choice.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Today from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. the forum “Migration and Modern-Day Slavery in Supply Chains” will be held in Room 121 of McKenna Hall. The program schedule and registration information are online. Registration is requested even if attending only part of the event. 
The Graduate Student Union will host the South Bend Medical Foundation blood drive in Lafortune Student Center from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. today. Participants will recieve a free ND Blood Drive T-shirt and will be entered into a raffle to win a free iPad. Registration is online, but walk-ins are also welcome. 
The School of Architec­ture will host the lecture “Universally Sustainable — Locally Authentic” in Room 104 of Bond Hall from 4:30 to 6 p.m. today. 
The Department of English will host the lecture “Notes on Democracy as a Spiritual Exercise” in the Eck Center Auditorium from 4:30 to 
6:30 p.m. today. 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies will hold an information session about available internships, fellowships and grants from  6 to 8 p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Center Audito­rium. 
The Department of Phys­ics is hosting an astronomy night at Nieuwland Science Hall and on North Quad from 8 to 10 p.m. tonight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 








HIGH 72 LOW 51 
HIGH 72 LOW 51 
HIGH 71 LOW 51 
HIGH 73 LOW 52 

Belles feel the love in ‘Support a Belle’ Week 
By SUSAN HEAD 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students will come together this week to shed light on issues students face and celebrate their strength as a community during “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” week. 
“Support a Belle, Love a Belle” week 
SGA co-chairs, seniors Em­ily Skirtich and Cat Cleary, first proposed the idea for the week and Glaub said she was “on board right away.” 
“I love Saint Mary’s and I love the people who go to school here because they inspire me every 
single day,” Glaub said. 
She said the events will ed­ucate students 

starts Monday  “This week reminds me of  on  important  
and aims to bring aware­ness to the  a giant hug with everyone from Saint Mary’s in it.”  issues that might not re­ceive enough  
issues of anx­ i n for mat ion  
iety, depres­sion and sui- Laura Glaub senior  inside or out­side the class­ 

cide that may sometimes go unnoticed on campus. Stu­dent Govern­ment Association (SGA) spon­sors the week. 
Senior Laura Glaub, SGA stu­dent services commissioner, said the week will be “full of engaging speakers, awareness campaigns and events with self-esteem groups on cam­pus to help show the amaz­ing resources we have at Saint Mary’s.” 
Events for the week will in­clude a brown bag lunch with the Women’s Health and Well­ness to meet the counselors on campus, a picnic on Library Green for on-campus and off-campus students, a candlelight remembrance ceremony, a stu­dent support group run by a student and free giveaways for those wearing yellow ribbons in recognition of teen suicide pre­vention. 
room. 
“We all 
take on [more 
than] we can 
handle, and we all feel stressed sometimes,” she said. “[At Saint Mary’s] we are a family, a community … we are full of compassion­ate and understanding faculty, professors and students, and I hope this week makes everyone remember or realize that.” 
The SGA committee said it hopes students will have a bet­ter understanding of these is­sues and be more aware of the resources Saint Mary’s offers for depression and anxiety after the week. 
“Our main goal is to make sure everyone knows that they are not alone,” Glaub said. “This week reminds me of a giant hug with everyone from Saint Mary’s in it.” 
Contact Susan Head at shead02@saintmarys.edu 


SMC students fight Alzheimer’s 
By ALISON WINSTEAD 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College hosted its third annual Walk to End Alzheimer’s Saturday and teamed up with local colleges and the South Bend commu­nity to raise nearly $18,000 to find a cure for the disease. 
For some Saint Mary’s stu­dents, like junior Katie James, the event was personal. 
“I participated in the Walk to End Alzheimer’s in remem­brance of my grandmother, who suffered from the dis­ease for over 10 years,” she said. “To truly make it a commemorative day, I wore red lipstick and munched on fruit snacks — two things my grandmother always seemed to have handy in her purse.” 
The one-mile walk, which was hosted by Saint Mary’s Office for Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE), raised $17,842 in donations for the organization, which will be used to fund the research for a cure, according to the Al­zheimer’s Association. 
Junior Kelly Roepke, OCSE’s student director and coor­dinator of the walk, said the walke was a great opportu­nity for Saint Mary’s to come together as a community. 
“The Walk to End Alzheim­er’s is one of my favorite [campus] events — it’s about uniting as a community to remember the loved ones we’ve lost to the disease and to come together in hopes of eliminating it in the future,” she said. 
Roepke also had a grand­mother affected by the dis­ease and said it was inspiring to see take action with her College community. 


“Witnessing the onset and development of Alzheimer’s as it affected my grandmoth­er was heartbreaking, so to come together and take ac­tion as a SMC and South Bend community has been empow­ering,” she said. 
Registration for the event began promptly at 11 a.m., followed by opening ceremo­nies at 11:30 a.m. outside of Dalloway’s Coffeehouse. The walk began at noon. 
Participants included stu­dents from Saint Mary’s Col­lege, Notre Dame, Holy Cross College and people from the surrounding South Bend community. Each participant that raised $100 or more was given a Memory Walk T-shirt. 
The Alzheimer’s Associa­tion’s Walk to End Alzheim­er’s began in 1989. Since then, the walks have been raising awareness of Alzheimer’s dis­ease and money to fund the search for a cure. 
Alzheimer’s disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the country, according to the Association’s website. 
Contact Alison Winstead at awinst01@saintmarys.edu 



Sophomore writes first fantasy novel 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
Sophomore Katie Mattie has loved writing for years, but re­cently took her passion to a new level. 
Mattie wrote a young adult fantasy novel that brings dif­ferent stories from ancient Greek mythology to the context of modern day life. She cur­rently has a literary agent and is working on getting her novel published. 
“It is going to be a trilogy,” she said. “I’ve completed the rough draft for the second book, and I am working on the third.” 
Mattie, who is from Ypsilanti, Mich., said she began writing the book in December 2007, when she was just a sophomore in high school. 
“When I first started writing, I had the beginning and ending in mind. So [I] just [needed] to fill in the middle,” she said. “I needed to figure out what hap­pened to make the characters get to where they did.” 


In Mat-“Persisiance is the key said. “I knew I tie’s novel, a when it comes to getting was close.” great war oc-books published.” Publishing curs between groups like the Olympi-Little Brown 
Katie Mattie 
ans and the and Company 
sophomore 
Titans. The and Blooms-
Oly mpia ns are banished from Earth because of an ancient curse, and live on Mount Olympus on planet Jupiter. Their arch en­emy, the Titans, were impris­oned in the underworld — Pluto 
— for 3,000 years, but have just escaped back to Earth. 
When the Titans arrive on Earth, they try to take over the planet. 
Since the Olympians can’t come down to Earth because of the curse, they send their pow­ers to five humans — Melanie who has “super speed” pow­er, Alice who can generate a force field, Jenn who is “super smart,” Izzy who can fly and turn invisible and Colleen who is “super strong.” 
The first letters of the five main characters’ names create the acronym, MAGIC. 
Members of MAGIC go on a quest through different dimen­sions of the universe, complet­ing tasks to unleash a secret weapon that will destroy the Titans. 
Mattie said the seventh Harry Potter book inspired her to be­gin writing her own story. 
“The seventh Harry Potter book came out in July 2007 and I didn’t want to pick up anoth­er book because I loved Harry Potter so much,” she said. “I thought I could entertain my­self by writing my own book.” 
Mattie said she did not let anyone read her first draft, but after doing some editing, she allowed her father and a few friends to read it. 
“There were times when I didn’t feel like I wanted to con­tinue writing the book, but I [had] told 50 friends I was writ­ing a book and I had to finish it,” she said. 
Eventually, Mattie said, ev­erything in her story fell into place. She sent out query let­ters to 50 literary agents, but only four of them showed inter­est. 
“Writers House, a huge liter­ary agency in New York, [sent 
a] rejection letter, but said I had poten­tial,” Mattie 
bury USA 
looked at Mat­
tie’s manu­script, but turned it down. 
Mattie said the key to success in the publishing world is not to take rejections personally. 
“Persistence is the key when it comes to getting books pub­lished,” Mattie said. “I just had to find someone who believed in [the story] as much as I did.” 
She said the manuscript is currently ready to be pub­lished, and she will continue sending her work out. 
Mattie said she has enjoyed the writing and publishing pro­cess thus far, despite the let­downs, and will continue work­ing to get her novel published. 
“What stuck out to me the most was how fun it was,” she said. “Writing it, I felt like it was in the characters’ hands to unfold the story. I needed to get to know who they were to tell the story the right way.” 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 

Retreat 
continued from page 1 
“My favorite part was when we went to the Grotto Friday night,” she said. “Being there with everyone, it just made me feel closer to God.” 
Sophomore Dominic Ro­meo was one of 24 sophomores tasked with leading the retreat. He co-led a small group from the 80 freshmen who participated. 
He attended the retreat last year and wanted to make sure this year’s participants had as positive an experience as he did. 
“I went last year before Christ­mas right when everything was getting really hectic for me,” he said. “It ended up being a good escape from busy campus life.” 
Even though the retreat was held at the Notre Dame Retreat House on the edge of campus, Romeo said the change of set­ting was important to giving students a better perspective on their experience of Notre Dame. 
“Everyone thinks they’re too busy, but being forced to step out of it all gives you a chance to really look at your faith and your time at Notre Dame,” he said. 
McCormick said attending the retreat in the first year of col­lege gives freshmen the tools and relationships to make the most of their experience at the University. 
“The retreat really helps them dig into the rest of the semes­ter, and their career at Notre Dame,” he said. “It gives them an even greater sense of being home here.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


Military prepares to draw out of Libya 




Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The mili­tary mission in Libya is largely complete and NATO’s involve­ment could begin to wrap up as soon as this coming week after allied leaders meet in Brussels, according to the top U.S. com­mander for Africa. 
Army Gen. Carter Ham, head of U.S. Africa Command, told The Associated Press that American military leaders are expected to give NATO ministers their as­sessment of the situation during meetings late in the week. 
NATO could decide to end the mission even though ousted leader Moammar Gadhafi is still at large and his forces are still entrenched in strongholds such as Sirte and Bani Walid. 
NATO’s decision-making body, the North Atlantic Council, agreed on Sept. 21 to extend the mission over the oil-rich North African nation for another 90 days, but officials have said the decision would be reviewed pe­riodically. 
Ham said that the National Transitional Council and its forces should be in “reasonable control” of population centers before the end of the NATO mis­sion, dubbed Unified Protector. He said they are close to that now. 
When NATO makes its deci­sion, Ham said he believes there would be a seamless transi­tion of control over the air and maritime operations to U.S. Af­rica Command. At least initially, some of the military surveillance coverage would remain in place. 
“We don’t want to go from what’s there now to zero over­night,” Ham said. “There will be some missions that will need to be sustained for some period of time, if for no other reason than to offer assurances to the in­terim government for things like border security, until such time that they are ready to do all that themselves.” 


Game 
continued from page 1 
the Purdue fans were really into it, as it was the biggest game of the year for them,” O’Brien said. “However, after it was clear the Irish were going to win, Ross-Ade Stadium quickly turned into a home game for Notre Dame, as many of the Purdue fans left early.” 
Freshman Madeline Basil said she noticed the Purdue section was not as energetic and 

cohesive as really excited 
“I was happy to see 
Notre Dame’s to be a part of 
a good mix of Purdue 
student sec-a night game,” 
and Notre Dame fans 
tion. Basil said. 
“The Pur-and everyone seemed Gills said the due students really excited to be a 150-mile trip did not have part of a night game.” to West Lafay­as many ette was worth cheers as we watching the 
Madeline Basil 
do, and the Irish play well. 
freshman 
ones they did have were quite inap­propriate,” she said. “In fact, it reminded me more of a high school game than a college foot­ball one, as students could stand wherever they pleased and did not pay as much attention to the action going on the field.” 
O’Brien said many Purdue students he spoke with were not 
Robbery 
continued from page 1 
from the vehicle. The student returned to his home and called the police. 
The officer who took the stu-
Kickball 
continued from page 1 
think such an event would be possible without the tight-knit community present both in So­rin College and at Notre Dame.” 
For $3 per person, teams of 5 -10 players could compete, with all proceeds going to the CureSearch for Children’s Can­cer research fund. Most of the competitors were Sorin resi­dents, although several teams from other dorms participated as well. 
The kickball event was held at McGlinn Fields. 
Freshman Sorin resident Jus­tin Dancu participated in the tournament, which he said was a success overall. 
“It was a fun way to help a good cause,” he said. “It was pretty relaxed which made it fun too.” 
Even though Healey passed away before Dancu arrived at Sorin, Dancu still found the event moving and meaningful. 
“I thought it made people re­member and sometimes even ask about Kevin’s story, and it helped 
raise awareness for pediatric cancer research,” Dancu said. 
McKernan said enough teams signed up to cover the event’s expecting a win. 
“Purdue had a black out pro­motion for the students, so they were really excited to be in that kind of atmosphere,” he said. “I talked to some Purdue stu­dents before the game and they were expecting an Irish victory, as even they recognized Notre Dame as the superior team.” 
Despite the chilly weather, Basil said she was pleased with her first Notre Dame away game experience. 
“I was happy to see a good mix of Purdue and Notre Dame 
fans, and ev­
eryone seemed 


“It was a great game to go to because 
Purdue is relatively close and the high number of Notre Dame fans that came out and sup­ported their team,” Gills said. “It was an overall great game to watch the Irish play in.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
costs, and have money left over to donate. He said the idea for a kickball tournament came from the success of other campus-wide athletic events, such as the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment or the Lose the Shoes soc­cer tournament. 
“It’s only the second year, and we had a pretty good turnout,” McKernan said. “We’re very happy that we made money to give to the fund, but in the fu­ture, our goal is to make it a more prominent campus event like the Fisher Regatta or Mud­dy Sunday.” 
Sorin College plans to im­prove advertising and work on increasing participation in the future. 
“It’s really a question of ad­vertising and persuasion,” McK­ernan said. “We’d be set for a tournament if we had one team, 5-10 people, from every dorm.” 
The logistics of this year’s event included poster printing, organizing sign-ups in the din­ing hall, and getting the neces­sary snacks and kick balls. 
“Fortunately, we had a great group of guys this year who were more than willing to help out,” Maier said. “Most of the work just went into advertis­ing.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



dent’s report recognized his description of the robber and believed him to be a suspect in at least one similar theft, and the police arrested Coleman on Thursday night. He is currently held in the St. Joseph County Jail and is awaiting charges from the prosecutor’s office. 


Citizens grow more organized in protest 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The protesters who have been camping out in Manhattan’s Financial District for more than two weeks eat donated food and keep their laptops running with a por­table gas-powered generator. They have a newspaper — the Occupied Wall Street Journal 
— and a makeshift hospital. 
They lack a clear objective, though they speak against cor­porate greed, social inequal­ity, global climate change and other concerns. But they’re growing in numbers, getting more organized and showing no sign of quitting. 
City officials “thought we were going to leave and we haven’t left,” 19-year-old pro­tester Kira Moyer-Sims said. “We’re going to stay as long as we can.” 
The arrests of more than 700 people on Saturday as thousands tried to cross the Brooklyn Bridge seemed to pour oil on the rage of those who camped out overnight in Zuccotti Park, a private plaza off Broadway near Wall Street. 


The growing, cross-country movement “signals a shift in consciousness,” said Jared Schy, a young man sitting squeezed between three oth­ers who participated in Sat­urday’s march from Manhat­tan’s Financial District to the bridge. 
“We don’t care whether mainstream media covers this or people see us on television. What counts are the more than 30,000 viewers following our online live stream,” he said. “We heard from a lot of them, and they’re joining us now!” 
The Occupy Wall Street dem­onstration started out last month with fewer than a dozen college students spending days and nights in Zuccotti Park. It has grown significantly, both in New York City and else­where as people across the country, from Boston to Los Angeles, display their solidar­ity in similar protests. 
Moyer-Sims, of Portland, Ore., said the group has grown much more organized. “We have a protocol for most things,” she said, including getting legal help for people who are arrested. 
The protest has drawn ac­tivists of diverse ages and oc­cupations, including Jackie Fellner, a marketing manager from Westchester County. 
“We’re not here to take down Wall Street. It’s not poor against rich. It’s about big money dictating which poli­ticians get elected and what programs get funded,” she said. 
On Sunday, a group of New York public school teachers sat in the plaza, including Denise Martinez of Brooklyn. Most students at her school live at or below the poverty level, and her classes are jammed with up to about 50 students. 
“These are America’s future workers, and what’s trickling down to them are the prob­lems — the unemployment, the crime,” she said. She blamed Wall Street for causing the country’s financial problems and said it needed to do more to solve them. 
Police officers have been a regular sight at the plaza, but NYPD spokesman Paul Browne said the protest has not led the department to assign addi­tional officers to the area. The department won’t change its approach to handling the pro­test and will continue regular patrols and monitoring, he said. 
“As always, if it is a lawful demonstration, we help facili­tate and if they break the law we arrest them,” Browne said. 
The Fire Department said it had gone to the site sev­eral times over the past week to check for any fire safety hazards arising from people living in the plaza, but there have been no major issues. 
The protesters have spent most of their time in the pla­za, sleeping on air mattresses, holding assemblies to discuss their goals and listening to speakers including filmmaker Michael Moore and Princeton University professor Cornel West. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, October 3, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Child within 
While cleaning out my closet this sum­mer, I discovered artifacts of a former self 
— the child. This pack rat left me with a week’s worth of cleaning, discarding and donating. Who did she think she was, col­lecting hundreds of Walgreens birth­day cards and 2nd grade grammar worksheets? 
Among piles of childhood rem­nants, I found clues to this young prodigy’s pursuits. She was a poet, a playwright, a painter and a photographer. She was a jetsetter, a fashion plate, a free spirit and an all-around renaissance kid. 

How foreign this mysterious figure seems! She traipsed around the mall and the museum with no responsibilities, chat­ting up her imaginary friends and pursu­ing whichever form of artistic expression suited her mood that day. 
Here I was, working-girl extraordinaire, enduring the daily grind. Every weekday morning this summer, I waited on the train platform for the 8:13 a.m. shuttle into Manhattan, perusing the Wall Street Jour­nal and sipping Kona coffee. I would stroll into my Financial District highrise office building, greet the security guard, ascend to the 16th floor and take my place in my drab half of a cubicle. 
I had fallen into a rut of responsibility. I was an unpaid intern at a pro bono law organization that resettles Iraqi refu­gees, and the time I spent in front of my laptop had a great impact on the futures of our indigent clients and their families. There was no room for daydreaming or Facebook-stalking when people could die if your memo wasn’t completed on time. 
How could I, the girl in the J. Crew pencil skirt, Skyping with a client in Syria, be the same person who drew that crayon rendering of my pug dog I found in the dregs of a cardboard box? 
Am I still just playing dress-up with my mom’s pearls and heels, or have I under­gone the painful, irreversible process of turning into an adult? I questioned whether I had taken the path to maturity too early and had wasted time designated for self-expression and indiscretion with dreaded responsibilities. 
Granted, I still viewed my work with the wide-eyed wonder of little me, and I thanked God every day that I wasn’t on the other end of the phone call, but the burden of responsibility weighed down the selfish creativity that characterized my past. My clients were forced to grow up too fast when war and sectarian violence tore their families apart, but I was blessed with a safe and comfortable life primed for self-centered pursuits. So shouldn’t I take advantage of it? 
By the middle of the summer, I felt burnt out from too much responsibility too fast, and I realized that the childhood, whose remnants I threw away at the beginning of June, did not have to end at 18 years old. I learned that balancing adult responsibili­ties on the weekdays with more childish activities on the weekends makes you better equipped to confront injustice from your cubicle Monday through Friday. 
I am grateful to have had an intern­ship in which my work was meaningful to a group that needs all the help it can get, and I can’t wait to devote my life to a similar cause. 
But for right now, I’m OK with being a college kid and holding on to tail-end of my childhood before it slips away. 
Tori Roeck can be reached at vroeck@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Auditing a Republican tax myth 
In 2001 and 2003, President George 
W. Bush and Congressional Repub­licans passed the “Bush Tax Cuts,” massive tax cuts that were completely financed by debt. Ironically, Republi­cans (who today rail against increasing Adam Newman the deficit) support the Bush Tax Cuts Scientia and want to see Potentia Est them made per­manent when they expire at the end of 2012. Republicans justify this contradictory position because they believe tax cuts generate enough tax revenue through increased economic growth to make up for the lost revenue from the initial cuts. As a result, Republicans believe tax cuts decrease the deficit instead of increase the deficit. This position is better known as “tax cuts pay for themselves.” Even though the belief that tax cuts pay for themselves is scripture to many Republican politicians, it doesn’t hold up under closer scrutiny. 
While it is not hard to find Republi­can politicians who believe the Bush Tax Cuts pay for themselves (George W. Bush, Dick Cheney, John McCain and Rudy Giuliani are just a few examples), it is also not hard to find former Bush Administration officials who say the opposite. Henry Paulson, President Bush’s Secretary of Treasury, testified during his Senate confirmation hear­ing in 2006, “As a general rule, I do not believe that tax cuts pay for them­selves.” Ed Lazear, a former chairman of President Bush’s Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) testified in a 2006 Sen­ate hearing, “As a general rule, we do not think tax cuts pay for themselves.” Andrew Samwick, a former chief econ­omist on President Bush’s CEA, wrote in 2007, “No thoughtful person believes that this possible offset (from the Bush tax cuts) more than compensated for the first effect for these tax cuts. Not a single one.” 
If tax cuts don’t pay for themselves, then for how much do they pay? One notable 2005 study conducted by econo­mist N. Gregory Mankiw (another former Chairman of the CEA in the Bush Ad­ministration) found the average payroll tax cut pays for 17 percent of its cost, and the average capital gains tax cut pays for 50 percent of its cost. There are many varied estimates as to how much the Bush Tax Cuts covered their cost, but no credible analysis has concluded that the Bush Tax Cuts fully paid their cost. Even the right-leaning Heritage Founda­tion estimated that the Bush Tax Cuts only paid for 30 percent of their cost. 
Republicans commonly point out that tax revenue rose annually (in current dollars) after the full implementation of the Bush Tax Cuts in 2003 through 2007. They use this as evidence that the Bush Tax Cuts paid for themselves, since tax revenue increased after taxes were cut. This is misleading, however, because even though tax revenue may have rose during this period, revenue would have been much higher if the Bush Tax Cuts were never passed. 
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projected that if the Bush Tax Cuts had not passed, tax rev­enue from 2002 to 2011 would have been $1.5 trillion higher. Alan Viard (yes, another former economist on President Bush’s CEA) in an interview with politi­fact.com noted the consensus of this fact, “Revenue is lower than it would be without the Bush Tax Cuts — liberal and conservative economists are in accord on this question.” 
Republican support for the Bush Tax Cuts also reveals a troubling hypocrisy: Republicans vehemently oppose any increase to the deficit, unless it is for a tax cut. For the past two years, Re­publicans have opposed deficit spend­ing sponsored by Democrats, even for critical investments like infrastructure, scientific research and education. At the same time though, Republicans worked to make the Bush Tax Cuts permanent, a move that the CBO projects will add as an additional $3.8 trillion to the national debt over the next decade. In 2012 alone, the Bush Tax Cuts will add $300 billion to the deficit, roughly one fourth of the projected 2012 deficit. If the Republi­cans were really as serious as they say they are about reducing the deficit, they would support a full repeal of the Bush Tax Cuts. 
Even though debating tax policy is as exciting as watching paint dry, it is a crucial debate in which our society must engage. Otherwise, the Bush Tax Cuts will continue to increase the deficit and Republican politicians will continue to have the audacity to say that they don’t. There is a very real possibility Republi­cans will win control of the White House and Congress in 2012 and thus have an opportunity to pass massive tax cuts on the principle “tax cuts pay for them­selves.” If this happens, Americans will deserve the bad policy these tax cuts create, but the next generation of Ameri­cans who will bear the cost of these tax cuts will not. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Challenging a taboo 

When I read Dr. G. David Moss’s article “Hip-hop night education” (Sept. 30), I felt myself agreeing with a lot of what he said. 
While I do enjoy my fair share of parties, I do feel that what has become a social norm party-like behavior is not always in our best interest. It can be fun to go out on the dance floor and have a good time, but what we do in the process can also endorse behavior we might not expect, or even want. 
Throughout the article, he mentioned that we need to find ways to open up a dialogue about sexuality on campus. Though I agree, this won’t be easy to do. At our school, sexu­ality is a taboo table topic; if we didn’t instill it into our minds as grade schoolers that it doesn’t exist until marriage, we certainly took it to heart in the way we silently and secretively deal with it in our daily interactions. 
Speaking up also isn’t easy on any college campus. We all have such strong opinions and beliefs that guide how we take sides on different campus issues, especially those of gender relations and sexuality. 
The hard part to remember is that every opinion is valid; every opinion is a valuable contribution to our discussion. 
When we take strong stances, it is easy to bring others down who don’t feel the same way. Bullying doesn’t go away once we leave middle school. It just becomes more elusive. 
I myself recently expressed an unpopular opinion and was not only the victim of personal insults and attacks, but lost friends over it. It is unfortunate that we approach some things with such closed minds. We attend a university whose mission it is to provide a forum for open discussion. 
We are fortunate enough to live in a country that actu­ally protects our beliefs in its constitution. But as peers and friends we need to recognize each other’s rights and hear them out. Disagreement isn’t worth losing a friendship. 
So how do we reassure our fellow students that we won’t hate them for their opinions? I offer our community this chal­lenge. 
I challenge you to take a risk and say what’s on your mind. Remember that you have a right to your opinion. More im­portantly, remember that the person sitting next to you has a right to their opinion. We have to feel comfortable speaking up, especially about hot button issues like sexuality. 
If we can start to at least hear what each other has to say, then we have a better way of looking at the issue. 
We can’t come up with the solution to campus sexuality un­less we’ve got all the facts on the table. 
Clara Ritger 
junior 
McGlinn Hall 
Oct. 2 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
Hip-hop night at Legends is ... 

“If you don’t like what’s being 
the best part of my weekend 

said, change the conversation.” 
a waste of time great for people-watching Jon Hamm as “Donald Draper” where I display my killer moves actor 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndscmobserver.com 



Monday, October 3, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Al-Awlaki killing had to be done 
Last Friday, Sept. 30, U.S.-born ter­rorist Anwar al-Awlaki was killed in an American counterterrorism operation in Yemen. Al-Awlaki, who maintained 
U.S. citizenship, was a key player in al­Qaeda’s effort against the United States John Sandberg and, according to U.S. officials, was instru- Guest mental in the planning Columnist of multiple attempted terrorist attacks on American soil. 
While the elimination of this indi­vidual undoubtedly disrupts al-Qaeda’s “murderous agenda,” as President Obama described it, critics have begun to speak out against the mission. Many have highlighted the controversy of this issue as it pertains to the Constitution and human rights, claiming that al­Awlaki’s status as a U.S. citizen afforded him the right of a criminal trial. Oth­ers have stated in recent days that this will amount to a propaganda victory for America’s enemies: The United States 
— a nation that abandons its values and kills its own citizens without trial. 
Legally speaking, the critics have a point. Morally speaking, the intentional killing of a person is always questioned, with good reason. The fact remains, however, that this operation had to be done. The world is a safer place without Anwar al-Awlaki in it. 
Suppose that, in order to respect the authority of the Constitution and al-Aw­laki’s right to a trial, President Obama had initiated a mission to apprehend al-Awlaki in order to bring him before a court of law. 
Would this approach have been pre­ferred? Absolutely. Would it have had practical chances of success? No. 
When executed to perfection, a mis­sion of this sort still puts the lives of 
U.S. troops in an extremely vulnerable position. As more details have emerged in recent months on the specifics of bin Laden’s death, we see the various mo­ments in which the operation could have failed disastrously, all in an attempt to possibly capture, instead of kill, the ter­rorist leader. Could U.S. military leaders reasonably have been expected to direct a similarly perilous mission in pursuit of al-Awlaki, simply because he was an American citizen? 
A terrorist is a terrorist, no matter his 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Catholic identity 
I applaud Fr. Jenkins’s recent petition to the Department of Health and Human Services for a more inclusive conscience clause. It shows a commitment to Catholic moral teaching and adds an influential voice to those of all religious groups seek­ing a conscience clause to protect their beliefs. 
The Observer’s editorial (“Health insurance issue calls Notre Dame’s identity into question,” Sept. 30) is correct in asserting moral debates such as these bring Notre Dame’s Catholic identity into question: “Either they (Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s) must commit to being modern universities and accept all that entails, or they must commit to being primarily Catholic.” 
Similarly, Mr. Caruso (“The government’s not-so-insensible ‘conscience clause’,” Sept. 30) implies Notre Dame must either become an “open university” or a “semi­nary.” 
While Mr. Caruso’s option is utterly false (a university can be open to the exchange of diverse ideas while still being Catholic), The Observer describes an important crossroads faced by Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately, The Observer does not define its idea of a “modern” university, but I believe it safe to assume most people would look to Notre Dame’s peer univer­sities as examples. 
Only one other top 20 school in the U.S. World and News Report, Emory, has any religious affiliation, and even Emory is officially nonsectarian outside its school of theology. Sadly, in the realm of religion, “modern” means a lack of any significant religious influence. In this sense, Notre Dame neither can, nor should, become like its “modern” peers. 
The U.S. and its young people do not need one more secular university where religion has a nominal role. If anything, we have plenty of those. 
Rather, what Notre Dame should be is a Catholic institution with the academic rigor to match its peers. Notre Dame must be a place where scientific discovery is pursued, but guided by Catholic morals; a place where Catholicism is faithfully taught and practiced, but where diverse viewpoints are welcomed and discussed. 
Notre Dame’s Catholic identity sets us apart, and therefore, if this identity is em­braced, Notre Dame can and will become a more powerful, and truly unique, force for good in the world. 
Andrew Weiler 
freshman Knott Hall Oct. 3 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
birthplace. His death was an act of self-defense against an individual who re­peatedly made the United States a target of murder. Any such targeting should be regarded as treason and a surrender of all rights that one is entitled to under the Constitution. Clear and present danger could not be any more obvious. It had a face and a name, and it was very real. 
As for those who claim this will embolden Islamist extremists in their efforts, I ask which is preferred: an unfounded victory that exists only in the minds of our enemies, or an actual vic­tory that would consist of another attack on harmless Americans? Surely we can agree that the absence of the extrem­ists’ central figure head will significantly overshadow any “win” existing in the cowardly minds of these feckless crimi­nals. 
As an American, I feel no remorse over the death of a citizen whose hands were stained with the innocent blood of many people. Nor do I make any attempt to empathize with him, for there will never be rationalization for those whose twisted interpretation of a religion calls them to slaughter their neighbors above seeking unity. Yet once the dust settles around this issue, justified or not, al-Aw­laki’s’ death will eventually amount to a single death in a war that often seems to have no end in sight. Conflicts progress but solutions are static, residing in the same undiscovered place that they have hidden in for years. War is a human is­sue, where there is nobody to blame and everybody to blame all the same. 
For those who look to criminalize a single individual in this episode — give up the search. This was not as simple as the killing of one man. Rather, it was a well-publicized act in an environment of war, which is indeed the fault of all humankind. President Obama did what needed to be done in weakening al-Qa­eda. It may not have been a good thing, but it was the right thing. As Command­er in Chief, Mr. Obama’s actions should be recognized as such. 
John Sandberg is a sophomore English major. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Who needs to readjust? 
Last week, Gary Caruso argued that “religious institutions need to adjust in a way that casts off ancient and outdated traditions whose time to end is upon us.” Caruso was questioning University President Fr. John Jenkins’ recent petition to the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) that the definition of “religious employer” in the pending health care regulations be expanded so that the University will not be required to issue contraceptive services in future health insurance packages. 
I believe arguments like Caruso’s overlook the significance of the Framers’ decision to include in the First Amendment the guarantee that Congress will neither make laws “respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.” The Framers could have written that “Congress shall make no law prohibiting the flying of kites.” Instead, they chose to focus on religion. They felt there was something special about religion — as opposed to kite flying — that made it worth mentioning in the Constitution. 
The Founding Fathers believed it would be wrong for Congress to impose a national religion. At the same time, by using the word “exercise,” they codified their consensus that it would be wrong for Congress to unduly prevent people from practicing their religious beliefs, even if those beliefs are considered by some (or, indeed, the majority) to be “ancient and outdated.” 
In recent years, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed that protecting religion is a national imperative. The Court has ruled, for instance, that a person cannot be forced to serve in a war that conflicts with his religious beliefs, and that the gov­ernment cannot compel Amish children to go to school past the eighth grade. 
Plainly stated, the regulations issued by HHS prevent Notre Dame from exercis­ing its Catholic mission. They would require the University to dispense artificial birth control, in direct contradiction of Catholic moral theology, which would likely prompt Notre Dame to withdraw from providing health insurance to students and employees — something that can hardly be said to be promoting of the dignity of the human person. 
Taken together, this all means that it is wrong to suggest that Jenkins is mis­guided in requesting an exemption from the pending law. For as our courts have held, in a situation like this, it is the government — not religion — that should do the “adjusting” out of respect for our constitutional commitment to preserving the right of individuals and institutions to freely carry out their sincerely held reli­gious beliefs. 
Michael Wester 
law student Morrissey Manor Sept. 30 




WILC 
reinvents themselves again on THE WH 
LE L 
VE 
By CHRIS COLLUM 
Scene Writer 

“The Whole Love” has the sound of a band tearing up the carpet and start­ing fresh — for the third time in their career. 
Wilco first did this in 2002, with the critically adored “Yankee Hotel Fox­trot,” which moved the band away from their alternative-country roots toward an exciting and entirely new sound, full of confusion and tension, and drenched with atmosphere. It happened again in 2007 with “Sky Blue Sky,” which saw the band regroup and start again with a new lineup. That album also marked front man Jeff Tweedy’s return from rehab. 
“Sky Blue Sky” and the eponymous seventh album that followed are per­haps best described as remarkable due to how unremarkable they are. Both albums feature comfortable, mellow pop-folk — certainly nothing as chal­lenging as “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot,” or that album’s follow-up, the darkly ex­perimental “A Ghost Is Born,” written in the throes of Tweedy’s painkiller ad­diction. That sort of mellow pop-folk is certainly something Wilco does very, very well, but after seeing what the band is capable of, it is a little disap­pointing. 
From the first moments of “The Whole Love,” it is obvious that the amorphous, experimental side of Wilco has returned. The album opens with a throbbing bass line, shuffling drums, plinking keys and a soaring 10 sec­onds of a mini-string symphony, before Tweedy sings, “No I froze, I can’t be so… / I can’t be so far away from my waste­land / I’ll never know when I might am­bulance / Or hoist their hearts with my own hands / Almost…” 

These lyrics are a good of example of the way Tweedy writes. He tends to use vague fragments of different images and feelings to try to convey a larger idea. On “The Whole Love,” Tweedy ex­plores every aspect of love in the lyrics: frustration (first single “I Might,”) long­ing (“Open Mind,”) shame (“Standing O”) and adoration (“Dawned on Me.”) 
The album is bookended by a seven-minute song (“Art of Almost”) and a 12-minute epic (“One Sunday Morn­ing,”) both of which are easily the best songs on the album. Wilco has played around with long-form jams with great successes in the past, so long-time fans should know to expect something good from those tracks simply because of the length, even if they don’t know what ex­actly to expect. 
As previously mentioned, opener “Art of Almost” showcases the experimen­tal side of Wilco that has been missing since 2004’s “A Ghost Is Born.” The best part of “Art of Almost” begins about four and-a-half minutes into the song, when a driving bass line, paired with veteran drummer Glenn Kotche’s snare taps sets the tone for a slow-burning Nels Cline guitar solo with about a minute left in the song. 
It’s great to see Wilco using Cline to his full potential. He first joined the band for “Sky Blue Sky,” and gave the record some of its best moments, but unfortunately didn’t play a very notice­able role on “Wilco (The Album).” 
The final track “One Sunday Morn­ing” is centered around a sooth­ing acoustic guitar riff that carries throughout all 12 minutes as Tweedy croons about death and other things morose and dark. Despite the subject matter, the song has a very relaxed feel to it musically, not much different from many tracks on “Sky Blue Sky.” It is perhaps the least challenging tracks musically on “The Whole Love,” but it is also one of the best. 
Elsewhere, Wilco sometimes goes for hushed acoustic ballads (“Rising Red Lung,” “Black Moon”), occasion­ally for perfect pop songs (“Dawned on Me,” “Capitol City”), intermittently from mellow to crushing in an instant (“Born Alone”) and at other times for just crushing (“Standing O”). 
It seems almost inevitable that many will feel the need to draw comparisons to later Beatles records, and while in some cases the shoe fits, this record re­ally just sounds a lot more like Wilco being Wilco. 
While “The Whole Love” certainly sounds like classic Wilco, it does not really sound similar to any particular previous Wilco album — or rather, per-
moves with his wife, Lib-execute the aesthetic needed by (Rachel Weisz), and two in an effective creepy psy­daughters to a peaceful New chological thriller. The movie England town. Except their never found its proper footing new Norman Rockwell house and was disjointed through-has been the site of a brutal out. Because of this it is hard 
series of murders years ago. to get caught up in what was Will discovers Ann (Naomi happening and the entire feel-Watts), a secretive neighbour, ing of suspense, so vital to this watching him and begins kind genre, is lost.        
haps it sounds like all previous Wilco albums. This record is certainly one of the finest of their career, and it is clear this band still has an exciting future ahead of them. Wilco has not settled into a rut, and they aren’t going any­where anytime soon. 
Though Wilco certainly has “torn up the carpet” and started over on this album, maybe the most fair statement would be that “The Whole Love” is the sound of a band that is performing at the top of their game, and producing some of the most brilliant music they have ever made. 
Contact Chris Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 
“The Whole Again” Wilco 
Release Date: Sept. 27, 2011 Produced By: dBpm Records Key Tracks: “Art of Almost,” “One Sunday Morning,” “I Might” and “Open Mind” 
By NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 
Jim Sheridan has always been a consistent and quality director — until now. 
His previous films, such as “Brothers” and “My Left Foot,” showed his ability to compose strong character-driven dra­ma. Seeing that Sheridan had taken the reins on the horror film “Dream House” was un­doubtedly exciting. “Dream House” even had an excep­tional cast including Dan­iel Craig, Rachel Weisz, and Naomi Watts. Also, Sheridan’s capacity for creating tension, as proven in “Brothers,” could have conceivably lent itself nicely to a scary film. 
And yet, “Dream House” was thoroughly disappoint­ing, as it turned out to be a discombobulated mish-mash without any real narrative di­rection. 
At its core, “Dream House” is a haunted house movie crossed with a psychological thriller. Will (Daniel Craig) to uncover the mystery that surrounds his new home and family. 
Craig attempts to give a good performance as he slowly be­comes tortured as he unravels the situation that surrounds him. However, the scenes do not do him justice and leave him without any freedom to push the emotional boundar­ies of his character. Instead, we get a string of awkward instances and it is never clear what is supposed to be gar­nered from the scene. When the characters finally do ex­plain what is going on we are pandered to and given literal expositions on the narrative, which really takes the fun out of the mystery. 
The story itself is unorigi­nal and although the plot twists in “Dream House” are clever in theory, we have seen them all before. SPOILER ALERT: For instance, “The Shining” and “Shutter Island” share many commonalities with “Dream House” in plot. But “Dream House” fails to 

Apparently, Sheridan was not happy with “Dream House” either. Universal Pic­tures screened the film for a test audience who panned it. Left to completely re-work it, Sheridan could never get “Dream House” to come to­gether the way he hoped. So eventually, he gave up and al­lowed it to be released to the audience, which is unfortu­nate for us. 
The main complaint I have about “Dream House” is that it completely fails to deliver. It is hard to respect a horror movie that isn’t exactly scary. The nonsensical script could be forgivable, as would the obvious twists, if the movie could have provided a couple ”jump out of your seat” mo­ments. But alas, there weren’t any. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 

DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 



Fall is never an easy season. While the semester begins with the heat and excitement of summer, it soon becomes as complicated as the varied colors of leaves that fall from our precious campus trees. Fall is a time when the lushness of the landscape slowly begins to turn inward, reclaiming the green with which it had so will­ingly welcomed us, preparing for the cold winter ahead with each changing shade of red and burnt orange. Un­derneath the beau­ty of this luscious canopy, we rarely pause to notice how quickly the time is passing, how fast the football season is progressing or how swiftly our own present mo­ments in college are relegated to the past. 
Slowly but surely, however, nature reminds us … until one day during our morning walk to the sacred space of Starbucks, in the midst of skirting away from a mad squirrel or two who look intent on devouring the just-plucked-from-the-closet clas­sic leather booties gracing our feet, our minds stage a revolt of Donatella Versace propor-tions. “Just a minute,” you say, as your head tilts with acute atti­tude, “I’m not ready for bittersweet, melancholic, sitting around-the-fire­ponder-Beret, topshop.com, ing-one’s-$25.00. future-ca­reer-op­tions days yet! Who do you think you are, fall? Don’t rain on my parade!” 
Before bursting into a full on belt that even Barbra Streisand would 


Photo Courtesy of topshop.com 

think twice about, we remember our other tool with which we commune with nature and the world: our ward­robe. What favorite fashion friend can communicate our personal flair, attitude and plans for an Indian sum­mer in the face of fall foliage? Only the beret is jaunty enough to accomplish the task. 
The beret is an accessory that makes you walk differently, talk with more passion and smile brighter and broader. Why is that? Is it the jaunty way it angles on your head, the contrast it gives to your usual hairdo, or the added sparkle your eyes seem to have knowing you have something fabulous decorating your head? Per­haps all three, but historically this cap has been inspiring the masses for generations. 
Originally a characteristic acces­sory of Basque shepherds, the angle at which a shepherd tilted his fashion­
able headgear, and even the color, communi­cated secret mes­sages from hill to hill.  Berets were soon exported to France, and still today any caricature of a Frenchman sees the indispensable beret, along with a baguette, bottle of wine and flow­ers. In the 1920s 
it began to gain power as a fash­ion statement, and thanks to 
Faye Dunaway in 1967’s Bonnie and Clyde, this hat became a statement of feminine rebellion. 
There are a few auras you can proj­ect with this accessory. Strong power­ful woman of the world: go with a mili­tary beret with leather trim. Ingénue: A lighter color in a soft fabric will make you ready for Paris’ Left Bank. A stiffer material will stay at attention, while a softer beret will mold to your head for a softer look. While Gene Kelly looked good in this accessory, it may not be for you, Notre Dame men, so as an alternative, feel free to trade the baseball cap for the newsboy cap. It has the same history and attitude without the caricature baggage (just please, not backwards). Ladies, start your beret journey at Topshop.com. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily of The Observer. 
DAN AZIC| Observer Graphic 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

ESPN should have fun 
Some know it as “The Evil Empire.” Some know it as the “En­tertainment and Sports Program­ming Network.” Most know it as “ESPN.” 
For months, if not years, ESPN has toed, and all-too often crossed, the line between unbiased jour­nalism and the money­making of a monopoly. 
On Tuesday and Wednesday night, ESPN showed how good it can be, in primetime no less. As counter-intuitive, cold-hearted and cut-throat as it may sound, ESPN is at its best as a money­making monopoly. 
On Tuesday night, the Bristol, Conn., conglomerate aired a documentary — using the loosest definition of the word— about Steve Bart-man and the circumstances enough to brainstorm. 

The higher-ups at ESPN thought something along the lines of, “Four games are be­ing played at one time? Wow, that could get interesting. You know what would be cool? If we actually showed all four games. Yeah, let’s do that.” 
Instead of pressuring the com­missioner’s office to spread the games throughout the afternoon and evening, ESPN created dra­ma of the highest order. Three 
of the four games came down 
to the final at bats, postseason 
fates swinging in the balance. 
When the Baltimore Orioles 
defeated the Boston Red Sox 
with a walk-off single, the Red Sox had exactly three-and-a-half minutes to gather their things from the dugout, trudge down the hallway to their locker room and look up at the TVs. There David Ortiz, Terry Francona and Jonathan Paplebon saw the Tampa Bay Rays’ Evan Longoria hit a walk-off home run of his own. The line drive over the wall sent the Rays into the playoffs, the Red Sox home and baseball 
fans across 
the country 
into figurative 

that made cardiac arrest. 
As its “30 For 30” 
him famous. No other 
series showed, ESPN 
For those who broadcaster 
can do some things 
don’t cringe, has the 
nobody else can, and 
cry or scream resources, 
do them very well 
at the sight the abilities 
of that name, Bartman, a diehard Cubs fan and indeed a Notre Dame graduate, tried to catch a foul ball at Wrigley Field when the Cubs were five outs from the 2003 World Series. In doing so, Bart-man knocked the ball away from leftfielder Moises Alou’s glove. The gaffe led to a spiral only the Cubs could execute, and they lost the NLCS the next night. 
In “Catching Hell,” director Alex Gibney tried to understand what led to Bartman’s exile from Cubs­dom. Gibney, largely thanks to ESPN’s vast resources, delves into the fragile psyche of Cubs fans and the events of Oct. 14, 2003. Before long, Bartman’s plight appears as an inevitable one for whomever sat in Section 4, Row 8, Seat 113. 
No other media or entertain­ment organization could have pulled off this endeavor with the craft Gibney and ESPN did. As its “30 For 30” series showed, ESPN can do some things nobody else can, and do them very well. 
But then came Wednesday night, and ESPN raised its game another few notches. With four Major League Baseball games to be played in primetime, and all four drastically affecting the playoff picture, ESPN created and accepted a challenge no other broadcaster would have been bold or the brash 
confidence to 
air four games at once. If ESPN had not gone for it, baseball fans, and sports fans in general, would have been robbed of the real-time drama transpiring across the country. 
These are the things ESPN excels at. It is time for Jim Gray to stop acting like a journalist during “The Decision.” It is time for the businessmen at ESPN to leave Bruce Feldman alone when he tries to do his job to the best of his abilities. 
Notice, Gray has not been seen much since his debacle, and Feldman left ESPN for CBS in September. 
ESPN should take a note from these moves. Leave the journal­ism behind. Pursue the things no one else can do — partly be­cause even a documentary must have a slant and because jour­nalists aren’t able to adequately watch four games at once. Keep doing them excellently. 
Really, live up to the phrase everyone throws your way. Do the fun things. Be “those guys.” 
Those guys have all the fun. 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
NFL 
Lions improve record to 4-0 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Mat­thew Stafford took the final snap, dropped to a knee and tucked the ball under his jersey for safe­keeping. 
He wanted a souvenir to re­mind him of his first NFL game in his hometown — not that he, or anyone else involved, is likely to forget this one. 
A week after turning a 20-point halftime deficit into an overtime win, the Lions provided further proof they’re a legitimate contender by turning a 24-point, third-quarter deficit into a 34-30 victory over the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. 
Detroit’s defense started the rally with interceptions returned for touchdowns on consecu­tive drives, then Stafford and Calvin Johnson took over from there, hooking up for a pair of touchdowns in the final period, including a 2-yarder for the win­ning points with 1:39 left. 
“It’s crazy how it happens,” Stafford said. “When it was 27-3, we knew we had to start making plays. Once we did, we started catching fire.” 
Detroit is 4-0 and has won an NFL-best eight straight games. This also was its franchise-record fifth straight road win, avenging a loss here last Novem­ber that had been its NFL-record 26th straight road loss. 
Tony Romo and the Cowboys (2-2) continued to show there’s no lead and no deficit too big for them. They blew a 14-point fourth-quarter lead for the first time in franchise history in the opener, and this was their largest lead blown in a loss in franchise history. Dallas’ previ­ous biggest blown lead was 21 against Washington on Nov. 28, 1965, when the Cowboys led 21-0 in the second quarter on the way to a 34-31 loss. 
Meltdowns against the Jets in Week 1 and this one are book­ends around two straight late-game victories pulled out by Romo despite a cracked rib. 
The rib wasn’t to blame this time, but Romo certainly will be because of the two interceptions returned for TDs, and another interception with 4:13 left that set up Detroit’s winning score. Cowboys owner Jerry Jones was quick to defend his quarterback, saying: “I have a lot of faith in Romo. This doesn’t touch that.” 
This was a bizarre way for the Cowboys to end an NFL-record streak of nine straight games decided by a field goal or less. The final play was wacky, too, with Felix Jones catching a short pass with no one around him on fourth-and-20, then running out of bounds after only gaining 8 yards. 
So much for a 3-1 start and a bye week to savor it. In­stead, Dallas players will suffer through an additional week of questions about Romo’s leader­ship and their overall inability to put games away. At least they’ll have time to get over all their in­juries, not that those were much of a factor in this loss. 
“Today and over the next week or two, it’s going to be difficult to look back at it, but at some point here, we’re going to move on,” Romo said. “There’s a lot of guys doing a lot of good things. We’ll evaluate it and get better from it.” 
Stafford had dozens of rela­tives and friends in the crowd, including his high school coach, which may have been part of the reason he struggled early. 
His first pass to Johnson was intercepted, leading to Dallas’ first touchdown. The defense was constantly in his face, forc­ing rushed throws or throw­aways. He was only 9 of 23 at the half. 
Once the interceptions were returned for touchdowns, Staf­ford looked like a different man. He stood strong in the pocket, and did a better job of finding Johnson. 
They connected on a 23-yarder in the end zone, when Johnson reached over three defenders, to make it 30-24. After a third in­terception by Romo led to a 51­yard field goal by Jason Hanson, Stafford and Johnson connected for the winner. It came against tight coverage on a play when the Cowboys had 12 defenders on the field. 
The Lions especially enjoyed Johnson being the late-game star because earlier this week Cowboys defensive coordinator Rob Ryan said Johnson would only be Dallas’ third-best re­ceiver. 
“He got a lot of respect for him for not being the best receiver on their team,” said Stafford, who finished 21 of 43 for 240 yards. “(Ryan) throws a couple of guys on him here and there.” 

Johnson caught eight passes for 96 yards, and tied Cris Cart­er’s NFL record of catching two TDs in four straight games. He already was the first player in NFL history to do it in the first three games of a season, so he stretched that mark, too. 
Romo finished 34 of 47 for 331 yards, with three touchdowns. He wore a protective vest and needed a painkilling injection, but did just fine the first 2½ quarters. 
He was on a roll of completing 13 of 14 passes, the only incom­pletion a clock-stopping spike, when his good buddy Bobby Carpenter made a leaping inter­ception and a weaving 35-yard return for a touchdown. The Li­ons were still down 27-10, so it seemed harmless — except that it gave Detroit players hope. Cor­nerback Chris Houston provided more when he returned an in­terception 56 yards for a touch­down on the next series. 
“The key play of the game was Bobby Carpenter,” Lions coach Jim Schwartz said. “We had no juice before that. It wasn’t the game-winner, it didn’t turn the tide completely. But it did give us the spark and got things going a little bit.” 
Dez Bryant was among the early stars for Dallas, catching two touchdown passes before Johnson even had a single grab, and Laurent Robinson had seven catches for 116 yards. 
Bryant’s only big moment in the second half was a diving catch overturned on a challenge by Schwartz. Schwartz appeared to curse at Bryant after the play. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

The Office Quotes: some of it. Even for the Internet, “You can’t fire me; I don’t work in “I miss Dwight. Congratulations 
WANTED PERSONAL it’s pretty shocking.”- Ryan this van!” - Dwight Schrute universe, you win.” - Jim Halpert “I am a great interviewee. Why? Howard Because I have something no “You, me, bar, beers, buzzed. “Yes, I was the first one out, one else has, my brain. Which “Why are you the way that you Wings, shots, drunk. Waitresses, and yes, I’ve heard women and 
Experienced cartoonist wanted. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t I use to my advantage when are? Honestly, every time I try to hot. Football, Cornell/Hofstra, children first, but we do not employ go it alone. Notre Dame has many advantageous.” - Andy Bernard do something fun or exciting, you slaughter. Then quick nap at my children. We are not a sweatshop, resources in place to assist you. make it...not that way. I hate so place, and we hit the tizzown.” - thankfully. And, uh, women are If you or someone you love needs much about the things that you Andy Bernard equal in the workplace by law, so confidential support or assistance, “Last year Creed asked me how to choose to be.” - Michael Scott I let them out first, I have a lawsuit 
50 to 75 cartoons $10 each. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 set up a blog. Wanting to protect on my hands.” - Michael Scott or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more the world from being exposed to “One of my life goals was to die “How would I describe myself? information, visit ND’s website at: Creed’s brain I opened up a Word right here, in my desk chair. And Three words: Hardworking, Alpha 
 Contact Professor Weber at document on his computer and today, that dream was shattered.” Male, Jackhammer, Merciless, weber.1@nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu put an address at the top. I’ve read -Dwight Schrute Insatiable.” - Dwight Schrute Go Irish. Beat Falcons. 
MLB 

Tigers hold on to take game 2 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Detroit closer Jose Valverde held off a furious New York ninth-inning rally and the Tigers avoided a major slip-up, beating the Yankees 5-3 on a rainy Sunday and eve­ning their best-of-five AL play­off series at one game apiece. 
Down 5-1, the Yankees scored twice in the ninth. Helped when Detroit catcher Alex Avila lost his footing on the slick on-deck circle while chasing a foul pop that would’ve been the final out, New York got a chance to win it. 
“It’s a little hard. That’s what happens sometimes,” Valverde said. 
After his popup landed un­touched, Curtis Granderson drew a walk. With two outs and two on, Robinson Cano came to the plate. 
Cano, who hit a grand slam and had six RBIs as the Yan­kees won the opener, wiped away raindrops from his hel­met and then hit a routine groundball to end it. 
“All of a sudden, against any­body — but particularly against a team like them with the short porch in right field — it was not a good feeling,” Tigers man­ager Jim Leyland said. “But it worked out OK.” 
Tigers starter Max Scher­zer pitched no-hit ball into the sixth before Cano blooped an opposite-field single to left. 
Miguel Cabrera’s two-run homer in the first off Freddy Garcia gave Scherzer an early edge, and the Tigers took a 4-0 lead into the eighth. 
Granderson hit a solo homer off Tigers reliever Joaquin Ben­oit in the eighth. Pretty soon, the rain — and all the drama 
— filled Yankee Stadium. 
Game 3 is Monday at Detroit. In an ace rematch, of sorts, CC Sabathia is scheduled to start for the Yankees against Justin Verlander. The two All-Stars faced each other in the series opener Friday night, but the game was suspended after only 1½ innings because of rain. 
The Yankees lost three of four this year at Detroit and are 22-25 at Comerica Park since it opened in 2000. It’s one of only two AL stadiums where New York has a losing record. 
Playing on the scheduled travel day, the Tigers now fly home with a chance to take command of the series, just as they did in 2006, when they lost the opener in New York before sweeping three straight. 
Perhaps planning to play two more days in a row in Detroit, Yankees manager Joe Girardi did not use his top late-game relievers, Rafael Soriano and Dave Robertson, and Detroit added a run in the ninth on Don Kelly’s RBI single for a 5-1 lead. 
So Valverde entered in the ninth with a four-run lead. He led the majors in going 49 of 49 

in save chanc­es this year, and the Tigers were a perfect 83-0 this sea­son when tak­ing an edge into the ninth. 
But this was not a save sit­uation for Val­verde, and he was far from perfect. 
Nick Swish­er sent Val­verde’s first pitch over the right-field wall for a home run. Jorge Posada 

“All of a sudden, against anybody — but particularly against a team like them with the short porch in right field — it was not a good feeling. But it worked out OK.” 
Jim Leyland Tigers’ manager 
followed with his first triple of the year and Russell Martin walked. With crowd rooting for a rally, Andruw Jones hit a sac­rifice fly that made it 5-2. 
Derek Jeter struck out, and the rain that has hounded this playoff series from the start re­turned in buckets. Granderson then lifted his foul pop near the Detroit dugout and Avila tracked it. 
But the All-Star catcher slipped on the mat in the on-deck circle, lost his balance and had no play. Given another chance, Granderson drew a walk that sent him to first base as the tying run. 
Cano and Valverde both did their best to stay dry — the Yankees’ star asked for a towel to wipe off his helmet, the Ti­gers’ excitable reliever tried to tuck away the ball in his glove to keep his grip. 
With the crowd roaring, the game ended with a simple grounder to second base. 
Cabrera took advantage of the short right field porch in the Bronx to give Detroit a 2-0 lead. The AL’s top hitter this year added an RBI single in a two-run second that began with a throwing error by Jeter. 
Making his postseason de­but, the 27-year-old Scherzer excelled. He gave up two hits, struck out five and walked four. He was lifted for Benoit with a 4-0 lead after allowing a walk 
and a single to Jorge Posa­da to open the seventh as ominous clouds settled over the ball­park. 
Benoit had not given up a run in his last 22 out­ings and he retired Mar­tin, then struck out pinch-hitter Eric Chavez as it began to pour, sending fans running for cover. 
Jeter came up with runners on first and second for the second time in the game and struck out looking with rain drops dotting his batting hel­met. 
Umpires never called for the tarp and blue skies returned about 10 minutes later in the top of the eighth in a game that began with players wearing sunglasses after two days of wet weather. 
Benoit gave up Granderson’s to start the eighth but got Alex Rodriguez, 0 for 8 in the series, and Mark Teixeira to pop out, eliciting boos from many of the 50,596 in attendance. 
NFL 
Patriots avoid mistakes 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Tom Brady’s least prolific day of the season proved to be enough to get the New Eng­land Patriots back to their winning days. 
Brady bounced back from a four-interception perfor­mance by throwing for 226 yards, two touchdowns and committing no turnovers to help the Patriots beat the mistake-prone Oakland Raiders 31-19 Sunday. 
Wes Welker caught nine passes for 158 yards and a score, BenJarvus Green-El­lis and Stevan Ridley added rushing touchdowns and the Patriots (3-1) played a mostly mistake-free game after last week’s surprising loss in Buf­falo. 
This time the intercep­tion that changed the game was made by New England instead of thrown by Brady. Patrick Chung got a gift-wrapped pick in the end zone late in the first half when Jason Campbell inexplicably threw the ball right to the safety with no receiver in the area for the Raiders (2-2). 
Campbell threw another interception early in the fourth quarter to 325-pound defensive lineman Vince Wilfork as the Raiders were unable to give the energized sellout crowd much to cheer about after the opening min­utes. 
The Raiders committed nine penalties for 85 yards, includ­ing a pair of personal fouls on New England’s opening drive by former Patriots star Richard Seymour. 
But the biggest mistake was the one made by Campbell at the end of the first half. 
The Raiders were at the New England 6 and in position to take a 17-14 lead when Campbell stepped up in the pocket and threw the ball directly to Chung. 
The Patriots drove for a 44­yard field goal by Stephen Gos­tkowski in the closing seconds of the half. New England then took the opening kickoff of the second down the field for a score on Ridley’s 33-yard run so the Raiders trailed 24-10 by the time Campbell took his next snap. 
Oakland settled for a field goal deep in New England territory late in the third quarter after the officials overturned a pass interference call against the Pa­triots. 
New England answered with another touchdown drive capped by Brady’s 4-yard pass to Deion Branch that made it 31-13 and gave him 274 career TDs, passing his boyhood hero Joe Montana for ninth place all time. That also tied Peyton Manning’s record of 13 straight games with at least two TD passes. 
New England’s much-ma­ligned defense did enough de­spite losing star linebacker Je­rod Mayo in the first half to a knee injury and allowing 504 yards. 
The Patriots held an oppo­nent to under 20 points for the first time this season, a drastic change from last week’s 34-31 loss to the Bills. 
Darren McFadden, the NFL’s leading rusher, had 75 yards on 14 carries. Campbell finished 25 for 39 for 344 yards, but the Raiders only made it into the end zone once before Camp­bell’s 6-yard TD pass to Denar­ius Moore with 28 seconds left. 
Brady, who threw for a re­cord 1,327 yards the first three games, needed to do much less against the Raiders. He com­pleted 16 of 30 passes as New England did plenty of damage on the ground with Ridley rush­ing for 97 yards and Green-Ellis adding 75. 
Buoyed by a sellout crowd and big-game atmosphere, the Raid­ers came out fast with Campbell completing four of five passes for 57 yards in the opening drive to set up a 28-yard field goal by Sebatsian Janikowski. 
But that emotion also hurt the Raiders with Seymour being called for unnecessary rough­ness for throwing Brady to the ground after a delay of game penalty and a facemask later on a TD drive. 


NFL 

Eli Manning leads Giant comeback over Cardinals 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Eli Man­ning needed less than a min­ute, and some good fortune on a play that could have ruined it all, to turn a sad afternoon into a sweet victory. 
Manning, playing at the scene of his 2008 Super Bowl triumph, threw two touchdown passes in a 58-second span late in the game and the New York Giants rallied to stun the Arizo­na Cardinals 31-27 on Sunday. 
The scoring passes of 2 yards to Jake Ballard with 3:37 to go and 29 yards to Hakeem Nicks with 2:39 left came after the Cardinals (1-3) seemingly had taken control at 27-17 on Beanie Wells’ third rushing touchdown of the game with 5:16 to go. 
The go-ahead touchdown came after Manning threw 29 yards to Victor Cruz, who stumbled to the ground, got up and left the ball on the ground on a play the Cardinals insisted was a fumble. The referee said the call could not be challenged because Cruz “gave himself up” on the play and therefore was down. 
The rule book says a play is over when a runner “declares himself down by falling to the ground, or kneeling, and mak­ing no effort to advance.” 
Cruz added more confusion by saying he thought he’d been touched by a defender. 
“I saw the guy coming and I wanted to get down,” he said. 
“I thought I was tagged down and I got up and was going to the next play. I thought I was touched so the ref called it down. I felt like I was touched, I thought somebody touched me. I guess in the heat of the mo­ment you probably don’t feel it or you think someone touched you, but I definitely thought I was touched.” 
Whatever happened, Man­ning was relieved. 
“We got a break on that one I think,” he said. “I thought it was going to get ruled a fumble and I saw it pretty clear. I don’t know what the call was or why. 
“What’s the understand­ing of that rule? I don’t know,” Whisenhunt said. “I’d like to think it shouldn’t have come to that play. That’s kind of the way I have to look at it.” 
The Cardinals were still fum­ing when Manning ran the next play, throwing to Nicks for the go-ahead score. 
“It hurts because we thought it was a fumble and it should be our ball, and then we prob­ably win the game,” Arizona defensive tackle Calais Camp­bell said. “Then you get caught up in the emotion and they line up and throw a deep ball. They took advantage of our emo­tions.” 
Manning completed 7 of 8 for 126 yards on the decisive drives as the Giants (3-1) won their third in a row. He finished 27 of 40 for 371 yards. Nicks caught 10 passes for 162 yards. 
Arizona rookie cornerback Patrick Peterson was asked what Manning did differently on those last two possessions. 
“Honestly he didn’t do any­thing impressive,” Peterson said. “We’ve just got to make plays, to be honest with you.” 
Going to the no-huddle got things in gear for the Giants in the nick of time. 
“They ran the ball on us, they threw the ball on us,” New York Tom Coughlin said. “We had many occasions where we weren’t able to make any first downs. For us to come back and play like we did and have an opportunity — we still gave the ball away on the 5 — and to overcome it, it is a real tes­timony for the guys to keep on playing.” 
Wells, who missed the previ­ous game with a hamstring in­jury, rushed for a career-best 138 yards. 
The Cardinals’ last gasp end­ed when Kevin Kolb’s pass to Larry Fitzgerald from the New York 30 fell incomplete. Arizo­na has lost three in a row, all in the same excruciating fashion. 
“I’m just disappointed, very disappointed,” Kolb said. “It’s just hard to swallow losing one like that.” 
Fitzgerald caught eight pass­es for 102 yards to break the franchise records for career yards receiving and career 100­yard games. Kolb, still strug­gling to take hold of Arizona’s offense, was 20 for 34 for 237 yards, with one interception and one lost fumble. 


Wells’ 39-yard run set up his final touchdown but Manning wasted no time in moving his team downfield with comple­tions of 21, 28 and 26 yards to the 2 to set up the toss to the tight end Ballard. 
The Cardinals took the lead with a pair of third-quarter touchdowns, one set up by Fitzgerald’s phenomenal grab of a 47-yard pass, the other when Manning fumbled the ball away at the New York 5. 
Nose tackle David Carter, a sixth-round draft pick out of UCLA, burst up the middle and stripped the ball out of Man­ning’s hand. Darnell Dockett fell on the ball for Arizona. 
Wells ran for 4 yards, then plunged in from the 1 to put Arizona up 20-10 with 2:55 left in the third quarter. 
The big play for Arizona ear­lier in the third came when Fitzgerald and defender Deon Grant went up after Kolb’s long pass. Initially, Grant appeared to have the ball, but as they came down, Fitzgerald wrestled it away with his right arm. The 47-yard completion gave Arizo­na the ball at the New York 10. 
A 7-yard pass to Fitzgerald gave Arizona a first down at the 1, and Wells pounded it in from there to put Arizona up 13­10 with 10:24 left in the third quarter. 


SMC GOLF 

Belles take second 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles turned in their best round of golf in confer­ence play this season Saturday at the MIAA Jamboree at Ka­lamazoo College, but fell short of the top prize by one stroke to conference leader Hope Col­lege. 
Saint Mary’s final score of 340 moved the Belles 11 strokes ahead of leader Olivet, putting them in a strong position to win the tournament. But Hope pushed its lead over the Belles to 23 strokes for a score of 339 in the season’s third confer­ence match. 
“I think overall we were hap­py with how we did,” senior co-captain Christine Brown said. “A lot of us felt like we left some strokes out on the course.” 
As the conference season nears its completion, Belles coach Mark Hamilton said his team is moving in the right direction, but time is running out. 
“I think [we played] a lot bet­ter than we have been,” Ham­ilton said. “We are really only the happiest when we win at this point, but I was pleased. I won’t say I was happy, but I was pleased.” 
Senior co-captain Nata­lie Matuszak led the Belles in scoring for the match, riding an event-low 39 on the back nine to finish with a score of 
82. Brown, junior Jessica Kin-nick and freshman Janice Hef­fernan all tied for 11th overall in the individual standings with scores of 86 for Saint Mary’s. 
The Belles now face uncer­tainty, as it is still undecided whether the MIAA round that was interrupted by rain on Sept. 29 at Albion will be replayed. If the event is not rescheduled this week, Saint Mary’s will carry their 23-stroke deficit into the two-round Conference Championship event Saturday. 
“It kind of puts more pres­sure on us to play well because having that rained out match, there is less opportunity for us to make up the ground that we already have in front of us,” Brown said. 
Despite the Belles’ large defi­cit, Hamilton said his team’s hopes of capturing the confer­ence title for the third straight year remain very much alive at this point. 
“I think we saw yesterday that we can have an OK day and still be tied basically with the best score,” Hamilton said. “So if we can have a good day, we can easily win by 10 shots. If we can do that three times, that’s all we need.” 
If they are to gain ground on Hope, the Belles will have to eliminate their mistakes. 
“We are doing a better job of focusing 90 percent of the time, but that 10 percent is still getting us into a little trouble,” Hamilton said. “We need to concentrate for 18 holes and play our best and see what happens.” 
The Belles will compete in the MIAA Championships at Calvin College for the top hon­or in the conference beginning Friday. Tournament play will continue into Saturday where the overall winner will receive the conference title. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish host Invitational through cold 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
With a storm of ranked teams converging in South Bend for the Notre Dame In­vitational, the Irish had to deal with talented opponents 
— and the weather. Facing temperatures in the 40s and winds of 20 to 30 miles per hour, the Notre Dame women placed fifth while the men finished 11th. 
“The biggest impact was probably the soft course that slowed down times,” Irish women’s coach Tim Connelly said. “We’ll be running into November so this was just a taste of the weather to come. Everyone else ran in it, too.” 
For the third consecutive race, junior Jessica Ryd­berg led the Irish. She ran the five-kilometer course in 17:33, good enough for 25th place in the blue race, the more competitive of the two different divisions. 
“I think she still a ways from being sharp and on top of her game,” Connelly said. “She didn’t get out very well but she kept her head up and continued working her way through the field. She did a nice job of not panicking.” 
Senior Susanna Sullivan and sophomore Alexa Aragon followed Rydberg, placing 29th and 32nd, respectively. Sophomore Kelly Curran and junior Rebecca Tracy each finished the course in less than 18 minutes and scored points for the Irish. 
“It was a good team effort and we competed well,” Con­nelly said. “If we’re going to be great, we have to get ev-erybody off the line better.” 

Florida State and its three top 10 finishers won the race while Arkansas-Fayetteville, New Mexico and Penn State also bested the Irish. Notre Dame did, however, top two ranked teams — Princeton and Brigham Young. 
“By the end of the year, we’ll look back and see how good it was. There were two top-10 teams and potentially four or five other teams that will be NCAA qualifying teams,” Con­nelly said. “It was a good step forward to figure out that we can compete with this caliber of competition.” 
Southern Methodist’s Silje Fjortoft won the race, clocking in at 16:54. 
The men’s squad finished elev­enth, with junior J.P. Malette completing the five-mile Blue race in 41st position. He clocked in at 24:51. Sophomore Martin Grady was the only other Notre Dame runner to finish just four seconds shy of the 25-minute mark. 
“We needed to be much bet­ter than that,” Irish men’s coach Joe Piane said. “We did not compete up to our capabilities.” 
Junior Jeremy Rae, a NCAA track All-American last year, made his season debut for the Irish, finishing 73rd in 25:11. 
“That is far from what he should be doing,” Piane said. “He’s coming off an injury but it was not a great race.” 
Brigham Young’s Miles Batty won the race, finishing in 23:59. Batty’s finish helped propel the Cougars to the team title. Two other runners from Brigham Young made top 10 times. Flor­ida State finished second while Princeton came in third. The Irish defeated No. 25 Ohio State, who finished 12th. 
“The competition was great, tremendous. It was probably the best meet in the country this weekend,” Piane said. “I think they will be a little bit more con­vinced to be more aggressive [after facing this competition].” 
Six runners also ran for Notre Dame in the less prominent Gold race. Senior Zac Suriano paced the Irish, running the course in 
25:41. Notre Dame finished the Gold division race in seventh place. 
Both the men’s and women’s teams return to the course for the Wisconsin Invitational in Madison, Wis. on Oct. 14. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




SMC SOCCER 

Belles unable to come back from halftime deficit 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles returned to the pitch with renewed aggressive­ness for the second half of their home match against Kalama­zoo on Saturday, but it was not enough to dig them out of a two-goal deficit and they fell to the Hornets 2-0. 
“We didn’t work hard enough in the first half. We didn’t fight for loose balls hard enough in the first half,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “We just weren’t as aggressive as we needed to be. The second half was nice, but you need two halves to win the game.” 

The Hornets (6-4, 5-2) con­trolled possession in the early minutes of the match, main­taining stifling pressure on the Saint Mary’s defense. The Belles (6-4, 2-4) cracked in the 21st minute when Kalamazoo junior forward Jackie Short shot down the field, received an assist from sophomore forward freshman midfielder Maria ourselves a bit of a hole, down of stuff,” Joyce said. “Players sometimes you have to dig down Sam Voss and launched the Rich tapped in for the second 2-0,” Joyce said. get kicked, and if there’s no and fight a little bit harder than ball into the upper left corner goal of the game. Saint Mary’s best opportu-foul they start kicking back. I the other team,” Joyce said. of the goal. Despite the deflating end nity to score came in the 60th think a lot of that was just [the “We didn’t have that in the first 
Belles freshman goalkeeper to the first half, the Belles re-minute when junior midfielder referee] letting a lot of the play half, so that’s what we’ll take Chanler Rosenbaum kept Ka-grouped during halftime and Ashley Morfin sent an open go.” out of today and move on with.” lamazoo from increasing their returned to the field with a no-shot in the box, but the shot While Joyce praised Saint The Belles will play their lead with a spectacular leaping ticeably improved attack, out-bounced off the crossbar. Mary’s positive attitude and next four games on the road, grab that earned a cheer from shooting Kalamazoo 12 to four The second half was rougher persistence during the second without a home game until Oct. the crowd. Rosenbaum had five in the period. than the first. While just three half, he said learning to play a 18. They will kick off the road-saves in the game, but with “In the second half we adjust-fouls were called in the first more physical brand of soccer trip at Trine College Wednes­seven minutes left in the first ed and came out and worked half, the referee stopped play could help the Belles. day at 4 p.m. half she tripped up, in front of hard and we tackled hard and 11 times in the second half. “That’s kind of our big theme her goal and failed to corral a it was a totally opposite half,” “I think that was mostly the from today. We talk a lot about Contact Vicky Jacobsen at loose ball, which Kalamazoo Joyce said. “But we had dug [referee] — he didn’t call a lot positioning and our skill, but vjacobse@nd.edu 


Overtime 
continued from page 20 
season and their first in the Big East. 
As a team, the Irish outshot the Red Storm 13-12, 7-6 on goal. 
This game marked Notre Dame’s fifth overtime perfor­mance so far this season; they are 1-2-2 in overtime games. 
The turf field at St. John’s pro­vided a new challenge for the Irish, making it a more “active and lively” game, Clark said. 
“It’s a different place to play with the turf field,” he said. 
The Irish only have a few days to learn from these goals scored on them by the Red Storm. 
“We move on to two very big games. Northwestern is a big re­gional game for us,” Clark said. 
The Irish welcome the Wild­cats to Alumni Stadium for a match Wednesday at 7 p.m. They will face more conference competition against Connecticut at noon Saturday at home. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Freshman 
continued from page 20 
defender Sammy Scofield for holding down the defensive fort and allowing Schuveiller to make that move. 
“As a freshman, [Scofield] stepped in these last few games. She played probably 70 minutes or so in the Mar­quette game and then played both games full time this weekend for us and was real­ly good back there with [se­nior defender] Molly Camp­bell,” Waldrum said. “I don’t think we could make that move with Jess if Sammy weren’t doing that, so hope­
fully those two moves will pan the weekend 
out for us, I think they have so far.” 
Junior goal­keeper Maddie Fox contributed big minutes be­tween the posts. Fox registered four saves against Connecticut and two against Prov­idence en route to the pair of shut outs. 
“I though Mad­die Fox was really 
“I though Maddie Fox was really good this weekend. She had three really good saves against Connecticut, one when it was still 0-0 but the other two when we were up 1-0.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
was sophomore forward Adriana Leon, cel­ebrating her bi rthd ay with a goal and an assist in the win on Sunday. The Irish will look to continue winning during a trip to New Jersey next 


good this weekend,” Waldrum said. “She had three really good saves against Connecticut, one when it was still 0-0 but the oth­er two when we were up 1-0.” 
Rounding out the scoring for weekend, taking on Seton Hall on Friday and Rutgers on Sun­day. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Sophomore shines at Invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
Competing in a 45-team field at the Sean Earl Lake­front Invitational on Sat­urday, the Belles finished with a strong showing. 
The Invitational, hosted by Loyola (Chicago), fea­tured several Division-I schools. St. Mary’s took 26th in the team standings with 860 points. Iowa took the women’s division crown with a team score of 27. 
Junior Julia Kenney led the Belles with a time of 19:38, good for 134th place indi­vidually in a group of over 500 runners. Senior captain Joanne Almond finished in 20:09, placing her 193rd indi­vidually. 
Sophomore Collete Curtis impressed for the Belles, as she recorded her highest team finish to date. Curtis’ time of 
21:07 shaved 40 seconds off her time at last year’s Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational. 
St. Mary’s will race next in their annual non-competitive Alumni 5K this Saturday, be­fore returning to the regular season Oct. 15 for a Pre-Re­gional meet at Oberlin College. 


Jackson 
continued from page 20 
doing from a recruiting perspec­tive. But I know what [Director of Athletics] Jack Swarbrick and [Senior Associate Athletics Di­rector] Tom Nevala have been doing. Maybe everybody else doesn’t. And the reason why it’s taking so long … people are go­ing to have a pretty good under­standing why it took a little bit longer, because of how much it’s going to have an impact on our program.” 
While the Irish did not an­nounce anything on the confer­ence front, they did make known the opening date of the brand new state-of-the-art Compton Family Ice Arena. Notre Dame will begin play in its new home Oct. 21 with a game against the Rensselaer (RPI) Engineers at 
7:05p.m. 
Though there was a lot of buzz off the ice, the Irish also re­turned to action for the first time in nearly six months with a win over the Mustangs. 
Notre Dame got off to a strong start in the first period with a 12-2 shot advantage after the first 20 minutes. But the Irish couldn’t get a tally on the score­board until 6:11 into the second period when sophomore forward Anders Lee released a one-timer over the shoulder of Western On­tario goaltender Josh Unice off a feed from sophomore center T.J. Tynan. 
Lee’s goal was on the power play, and the Irish finished the night a strong 2-for-8 with the extra-man advantage, an en­couraging sign after poor spe­cial teams play much of last season. The Irish played around with multiple combinations and units in an attempt to find a for­mula for success. 
“It’s tryout time, in my opin­ion, because our power play and our penalty killing both struggled in the second half last year,” Jackson said. “So we want to get an opportunity to take a look at some guys that didn’t get on the power play or penalty kill last year. There was some good things, some positives.” 
Starting junior goalten­der Mike Johnson and backup sophomore Steven Summerhays combined for a shutout as each played about half the contest. Jackson was pleased with the play of both netminders. 
“We need competition in that spot,” he said. “I thought Mike played well. Sometimes it’s tougher to play when you only face a few shots, but Steven came in and [played well], so that’s good for us. If he can play well, I’m happy to have two goal­tenders who can play. And I’m not afraid, as long as they play consistent, going with two guys for a little while.” 
The Irish were missing two key contributors from last year’s 


Brown 
continued from page 20 
a really high level. We hit .291 as a team on Saturday. It’s tough because it was right there but we couldn’t quite close it out. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame cruised to a 25-17 first-set win before dropping three straight against the Cardinals (12-4, 4-0). 
“We went in [against Louis­ville] and started very strong, and I thought the team executed really well but then we, again, didn’t finish strong,” Brown said. “Even the one we won, we didn’t really finish strong in that set.” 
Though plenty of self-inflicted wounds cost her team, Brown gave credit to the Cardinals. The preseason pick to win the Big East, Louisville rebounded from a lopsided first set to close out the Irish. 
“We have some things that we can work on, but I give Louisville credit,” Brown said. “Obviously they’re a very talented team. But they also did a good job of mix­ing up their serves and block­ing, and we just didn’t adjust to that very well. They used short serves to take us out of some of our offense, and it worked. We weren’t able to compensate for it, and that gave them the edge they needed.” 
As the Irish look to respond to a three-game conference los­ing streak, Brown said her team will focus on the positives from the weekend and continue to im­prove. 
“We had a great start [against Louisville] and we’re going to hang on to that,” she said. “We had a rough finish but played re­ally well against Cincinnati, and were going to hang on to that as well. 
“We never want to lose — it’s not acceptable at all — but we know that we’re going to get bet­ter and that’s the goal. We’re going to hold our heads up high and get better.” 
The Irish have the entire week to fulfill Brown’s request for im­provement before a chance to redeem themselves in the Big East with conference match-ups at Pittsburgh on Saturday and West Virginia on Sunday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Frozen Four squad. Junior cen-wing Jeff Costello was also held Minnesota-Duluth at 8:07 p.m. ter Riley Sheahan was a healthy out with an upper-body injury, The Bulldogs knocked Notre scratch as Jackson wanted to which Jackson said he believes Dame out in the national semifi­get a look at other players at to be minor. nals last season. the center position. Sheahan Notre Dame opens its season is expected back in the lineup Friday with a rematch against Contact Sam Gans at this weekend. Sophomore left defending national champion sgans@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS JUMBLE DAVID L. HOyT JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Monday, October 3, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Back to their old selves 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
A pair of dominating 3-0 wins for the Irish over the weekend could be the momentum shift the team has been waiting for, Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. 
Taking down Connecticut on Friday night and Providence on Sunday, Notre Dame (6-5-2, 3-2-1) did not suffer the lapses in play it showed the past cou­ple of weeks, stringing together two complete games on both sides of the ball. The Irish have not recorded a shutout since the Aug. 19 season opener. 
“It was the first time in a few weeks that we played like we’re capable of playing for a full 90 minutes, so I’m really, really pleased with the results,” Wal­drum said. “It was great getting two shutouts and scoring three goals against two good teams, and I guess more importantly, just the fact that we played for a full 90 minutes for both games. It was a really positive week­end for us. Hopefully it was the turning point we’ve been look­ing for.” 
Freshman forward Lauren Bohaboy looked especially sharp this weekend with a break out performance featur­ing two goals and one assist against Connecticut and the game’s first goal on Sunday. Waldrum said this performance was expected from the talented freshman. 
“[Lauren] had a great week­end. When we were recruiting 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Frehsman forward Lauren Bohaboy blasts a goal in Notre Dame’s 3-0 win over Connecticut Friday. Bohaboy scored twice in the game, and added one more goal in Sunday’s 3-0 win over Providence. 
her … every time we saw her she was scoring goals,” Wal­drum said. “For whatever rea­son it just took her a little lon­ger than we expected this year to get in and start doing that. I think she went maybe eight or nine games without scoring a goal, but now here she is with five goals in five games. We needed her, and other players, to start getting hot to help Me­lissa Henderson out up top, so she had a great weekend.” 
Senior tri-captain Jess Schuveiller contributed a goal in each game. Schuveiller has scored a goal in each contest since her move up to midfield. 
“I think right now it looks like that’s a move that’s panned out for us well,” he said. “I just thought she brought a whole dif­ferent presence to our midfield. 
We’ve been very good attack­ing-wise in the midfield, but we just weren’t defending well out of it. I think [Schuveiller] re­ally brings that physical pres­ence and that toughness, and yet she’s so good with the ball that she can create so much of­fensively.” 
Waldrum credits freshman 
see FRESHMAN/page 17 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish fall to Big East opponents 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame faced two Big East powerhouses this week­end at home, but Cincinnati and Louisville both left South Bend victorious by a 3-1 mar­gin over the Irish. 
“It was a really big weekend for us,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “We knew these two opponents are maybe one and two in the conference and definitely both in the top three.” 
The Irish (8-6, 11-3) dropped the first two sets against Cincinnati (12-6, 4-0) by two points each and took the third set by a large margin before falling in the fourth. 
The team’s disappointment stemmed from a few crucial missed opportunities. Brown said Notre Dame executed well and put itself in position to beat a top team, but could not finish the job. 
“Against [Cincinnati] we were in a situation to win two of the sets for sure and let it get away,” Brown said. “It was really disheartening and frustrating, but we played at 
see BROWN/page 18 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame suffers crushing OT defeat 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
With just 49 seconds left in double-overtime, St. John’s scored the winning goal for a 2-1 win over the Irish in Queen’s, N.Y., ending Notre Dame’s four-game win streak. 
“We felt it was harsh justice,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We obviously hope that we can learn some things from it. We can learn a lot from their two goals.” 
The No. 10 Irish displayed of­fensive dominance over the Red Storm with 12 shots to St. John’s seven in the first half of the con­test. 
“To be honest, I thought we controlled large portions of the game,” Clark said. “It was argu­ably our best performance of the season. We took possession, we took chances.” 
The Irish were unable to turn their offensive success into points in the first half and both teams ended the first 45 minutes of regulation in a 0-0 tie. 
No. 15 St. John’s put a point on the board first in the 54th min­ute, the first time the Irish gave up a goal since their 2-1 over­time win against Michigan on Sept. 16. 
Irish scored their only goal of the game in the 80th minute of play when sophomore forward Leon Brown capitalized on a flubbed save attempt from a Red Storm defender. The point was Brown’s first career goal for the Irish. 
“We obviously applied a lot of pressure with the equalizer,” Clark said. 
Brown raked in three shots and two on goal, a team high for the night. 
“We did not play [Brown] his freshman year, Clark said. “So really, this is his freshman year as a player for us. He’s just get­ting better and better every game.” 
The match nearly ended when Brown almost scored again for the Irish in the first sudden-death overtime, which would have ended the game in Notre Dame’s favor. 
“In their first period of over­time, their goalkeeper had a ter­rific save,” Clark said. 
The Red Storm handed the Irish their second loss of the 
see OVERTIME/page 17 


HOCKEY 
ND wins 4-0 in exhibition 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Both action and inaction led to a busy Sunday night for the top-ranked Irish. Notre Dame earned a 4-0 victory over Western Ontario in its only exhibition game of the season, and announced the date of the first game in the nearly-finished Compton Family Ice Arena. Meanwhile, the National Collegiate Hock­ey Conference (NCHC) re­leased a statement that clari­fies Notre Dame’s conference future, though the Irish have not made a move yet. 
Notre Dame had indicated previously its final two con­ference choices following the disbanding of the CCHA after 2012-2013 were the newly-formed NCHC and Hockey East. The NCHC released a statement Sunday indicating it would be­gin play in 2013-2014 with only the eight teams already commit­ted. It now appears the Irish will choose Hockey East. 
Notre Dame has not issued a press release on its conference choice and an announcement isn’t expected until Wednesday. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said the Irish have not made anything of­ficial. 
“I don’t think there’s an an­nouncement yet,” Jackson said. “I don’t think anything’s been confirmed or done officially, so we’re just kind of waiting. I have to wait until I hear what my bosses say.” 
Whether the Irish become a member of Hockey East or not, Jackson believes Irish fans will be pleased with the final result, despite the long wait. 
“I wanted [the conference se­lection] out of the way before the start of the season, more for our team,” he said. “Obviously, it’s important to know what you’re 
see JACKSON/page 18 



