the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


IOSHA finds six Notre Dame violations 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
The Indiana Occupational Health and Safety Administration (IOSHA) found Notre Dame guilty of six violations after a four-and-a­half month investigation into the October death of junior Declan Sullivan, the Indiana Department of Labor announced March 15. 
Sullivan, 20, died Oct. 27 after the scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. He was a student videographer for the football team. 
The citations resulted in fines totaling $77,500. The violations included a “knowing” violation, meaning IOSHA found the University knowingly exposed its employees to unsafe conditions. The Indiana Department of Labor reported the University was fined $55,000 for this violation. 
IOSHA also issued five “serious” violations with fines totaling $22,500. These violations included failure to properly train student employees in how to operate a scissor lift. 
“We found that Notre Dame did not establish and maintain condi­tions of work that were reason­ably safe for its employees, that were free from recognized haz­ards that caused or were likely to cause serious injury,” Indiana Department of Labor commission­er Lori Torres said in a March 15 press conference. “In addition, by directing an untrained, student videographer to use the scissor lift during a period of time when the National Weather Service had issued an active wind advisory … the University knowingly exposed its employees to unsafe condi­tions.” 
The University must pay the fines or appeal IOSHA’s findings by April 7, according to Indiana Department of Labor require­ments. 
Notre Dame respects the investi­gation results and will examine the report, University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a March 15 statement. 
“We will study the details very carefully and take the actions nec­essary to protect the ongoing safe­ty of our students and staff,” Jenkins said. “None of these find­ings can do anything to replace the loss of a young man with boundless energy and creativity. 


Student remembers quake experience 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
A 9.0 magnitude earth ­quake hit with an epicenter 81 miles off the coast of Japan, sending tsunami waves up to 33 feet high to the island country, on Friday, March 11. The Japanese National Police Agency officially confirmed 8,805 deaths, 2,628 injured and 12,664 people missing as of Monday. Three nuclear power plants have suffered explosions in the aftermath. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins released a statement following the dis­aster, expressing condo ­lences for those affected by the earthquake and announcing a Mass for the people of Japan. 
“My prayers are with those from our University who have been directly affected, as well as with the Japanese people as a whole,” he said. 
Luckily for junior Massiel Gutierrez, currently studying abroad at Nanzan University in Nagoya, she was located far from the epicenter when the disaster struck. 


“I was in the computer lab waiting for my friends’ class to get out. I thought I was having vertigo but then I realized everyone else in the room was freaking out too,” she said. “The earthquake was felt down here, it was 
about  a  five  on  the Richter  
s c a l e  h e r e ,  b u t  i t  d i d n ’t  
cause  any damage. It  went  

see JAPAN/page 6 



Formeremployeechargedwithattemptedvoyeurism 
Observer Staff Report 
A former University employee in Notre Dame’s registrar’s office was charged last week with planting a camera in a women’s restroom in Grace Hall, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
Don Steinke, 52, was charged with attempted voyeurism. A woman discovered the hidden pen camera pointed toward the toilet in a bathroom stall last week. 
Steinke was charged after sev­eral people reviewed a tape and identified him as the man who hid the camera in the Grace Hall bathroom. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said in a statement that the University acted immediate­ly when the woman found the camera. 
“University police acted imme­diately when made aware of this matter, investigating the com­plaint, arresting Mr. Steinke, disabling the system and work­ing in collaboration with the prosecutor’s office,” Brown said. 
“The University understands and respects that Mr. Steinke is presumed innocent, and does not make any judgment about how this matter may conclude. However, this kind of activity is abhorrent and obviously has no place here or anywhere in soci­ety.” 

Investigators reported that Steinke admitted to placing the camera in the bathroom when confronted. 
The South Bend Tribune reported that Steinke was an employee in the registrar’s office at the time of his arrest but is no longer employed by Notre Dame. 
As I said last fall, we failed to keep him safe, and for that we remain profoundly sorry.” 
The University’s internal investi­gation is ongoing, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves, who is leading the investigation, said in a March 15 statement. 
“The IOSHA findings are very helpful as we begin to conclude our own comprehensive investiga­tion,” Affleck-Graves said. “We expect that our report will include information gathered through the IOSHA investigation as we focus 
see IOSHA/page 5 



WR Floyd suspended after arrest 

Observer Staff Report 
Irish coach Brian Kelly sus­pended junior receiver Michael Floyd Monday in the wake of the team captain’s arrest for operating while intoxicated early Sunday morning. Floyd was stopped early Sunday morning for all egedly operating a motor vehi­cle with an alcohol concentration of 0.15 or more, according to a St. Joseph County Police report. 
“In light of what happened this past weekend, I let [Floyd] know that he has been suspended indefinitely from football team-related activities, ” Kelly said. “Football needs to take a backseat at the moment while Michael gets his life in order, and while I don’t know when Michael will be rein­stated, it will not happen until Michael demonstrates he has successfully modified his behavior and the legal and university disciplinary matters have run their respective courses.” 
Floyd was pulled over by Notre Dame Security Police at the intersection of Angela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue for running a stop sign. Floyd failed three sobri­
see FLOYD/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER RAs selected page 3  Pop music’s campaign for individuality page 12  Women’s basketball advances page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 22, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT WAS T E  IG LIG T OF YOUR SPRING BREAK?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITOR: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sam Stryker Eric Prister Emily Schrank Kelsey Manning Adam Llorens Matt DeFranks 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Maria Fernández 

Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Meghan Thomassen 


OFFBEAT 
Increase in prices at Taco Bell enrages customer 
SAN ANTONIO — Police say a San Antonio Taco Bell customer enraged that the seven burritos he ordered had gone up in price fired an air gun at an employee and later fired an assault rifle at officers before bar­ricading himself into a hotel room. 
San Antonio Police Sgt. Chris Benavides says offi­cers used tear gas Sunday night to force the man from the hotel room after a three-hour standoff. The man is charged with three counts of attempted capital murder. Authorities have not released his name. 
Brian Tillerson, a manag­er at the Taco Bell/KFC 

Stanislava Sevova  Eric Routen  Joe Petros  Tre Haskins  Amanda Breuning  Dondi Ellis  
sophomore  senior  3rd Year Law  freshman  sophomore  junior  
McGlinn  Off campus  Off campus  Morrissey  Welsh Fam  Alumni  

“Shopping in  “Making  “Believing Mike  “I went to N.Y.C.  “South Beach  “Going home to  
downtown  cupcakes,  Brey is a good  and saw the  ...’nuff said.”  Maryland.”  
Toronto.”  horseback  coach.”  whole city  
riding and  which was  
watching  really cool.”  
French films.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

restaurant, told the San Antonio Express-News that the man was angry the Beefy Crunch Burrito had gone from 99 cents to $1.49 each. 
Police say the man fired on officers during a traffic stop after the restaurant incident. 
Criminal unintentionally identifies himself 
HARRISBURG, Pa. — Police say a man tried to open an account before robbing a central Pennsylvania bank, but only after he'd already handed over two forms of identification. 
Harrisburg police say 35­year-old Daniel Rahynes walked into a bank on Sunday and told tellers he was interested in opening an account. After he gave bank employees his infor­mation, he declared that he was actually there to rob the bank. 
Investigators say Rahynes drove off with a small amount of cash, striking another vehicle. Meanwhile the bank con­tacted police, who issued a warrant for his arrest. 
Police in a neighboring county took Rahynes into custody following another crash near Carlisle and learned of the warrant. 
Rahynes faces bank rob­bery charges. It was not clear if he had an attorney. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will hold a lecture, “Aero­optics: Background and Research at Notre Dame,” featuring Professor Eric Jumper today at Fitzpatrick 258 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. 
The Mendoza College of Business is hosting a conference entitled “The UN Millennium Development Goals, The Global Compact, and the Common Good.” Today’s events include lectures by numerous established businessmen, professors and world leaders. Events will be held in the Notre Dame Conference Center in McKenna Hall beginning at 
12:00 p.m. 
A lecture entitled “Muslims, Christians and Social Inequality” will be given today by Professor M. Steven Fish,a poltical science professor from the University of California at Berkeley, today in Room C103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies from 

12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. 
Librarians Felicia Smith and Tanya Prokrym will demonstrate how to use RefWorks this afternoon from 

4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in Room 222 in the Hesburgh Library. 
The Right to Life Spring Lecture Series will be holding a talk this evening entitled “Rethinking Downs Syndrome: Revolutionary Researchg Advances” in the first floor lounge at the Coleman-Morse Center from 

7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight wednesday thursday friday Saturday 



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 

43 40 HIGH 4836 4244
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

41 36 LOW 2826 2829 






Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






HallstaffsselectRAsfor2011-12 

By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The anticipation among 317 rising seniors applying for Resident Assistants culminated the week before Spring Break when final selections for the posi­tions were determined. 
The position is one of the most competitive to obtain on campus because of the tradition associat­ed with the Notre Dame resi­dence life system. 
According to the Office of Residence Life & Housing, 172 male candidates and 145 female candidates applied for the RA position for the 2011-12 school year. Of these, 96 men and 84 women were hired to fill the position in Notre Dame’s 29 resi­dence halls. 
Siegfried Hall resident David Mahin, a junior, said he is excited for the opportunity the position presents. 
“Being abroad this fall in Rwanda and Uganda really cemented my decision to apply for RA,” Mahin said. “I realized it can be difficult to give back to the community in a lot of jobs and positions, but by being an RA, I will be able to wholeheartedly give back to the phenomenal community that is Siegfried Hall.” 
Junior Analise Althoff said being a RA runs in her blood. 

“I have had three older siblings serve as Resident Assistants here in the past, so I have always had the idea in the back of my head,” Althoff said. “After living in Farley for three years with great RA’s, I thought more about it and decided it was something I would really like to do.” 
The idea of creating and sus­taining relationships within the hall is an attractive aspect of being an RA, Althoff said. 
“I am looking forward to bond­ing more with the Farley staff and making my dorm an even finer place to live,” she said. “I plan on creating some stellar sec­tion events with other RAs around campus.” 
Though the Office of Residence Life & Housing receives the appli­cations for the RA position, it is the various hall staffs that ulti­mately make the final decisions. 
Siegfried Hall Rector Fr. John Conley said the process involves multiple steps. 
“In late January, I receive a list of candidates from O.R.L.H. seek­ing an RA position in Siegfried Hall,” Conley said. “The candi­dates then go through a series of interviews with the current RAs, ARs [Assistant Rectors] and myself, and it is from these inter­views that we as a staff make a consensus decision on a RA.” 
Current staff members play such an integral role in deter­mining future RAs because of the close relationships they develop with the candidates, Conley said. 
“It is very important to careful­ly consider what the current RA’s assessment is of each candidate,” he said. “Most rectors would say you need to work closely with your hall staff while choosing your next hall staff.” 
Senior Bobby Schafer was rejected last spring to be an RA this year, but said he has enjoyed his senior year. 
“I had mixed emotions because on one hand, I was totally bummed out, but on the other hand, I already had a backup plan of living off-campus with a good friend of mine, so it all worked out in the end,” Schafer said. “While I enjoyed my time on campus, living off campus has given me opportunities to grow in a way that I would not have been able to had I been accepted as a Resident Assistant.” 
Current Siegfried Hall RA Anmol Malhotra, a senior, said he has enjoyed his duties this year. 
“The everlasting friendships I have established this year with residents within the dorm, espe­cially the freshmen in my section, have truly been the best aspect of being an RA,” Malhotra said. “I will be forever thankful to the Notre Dame and Siegfried Hall community for this opportunity.” 

Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 




Doctor discusses Haiti earthquakereliefservices 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
When a 7.8 -magnitude earthquake struck Haiti Jan. 12, 2010, Dr. Jude Marie Banatte, Head of Programming for Catholic Relief Services (CRS) in Les Cayes, Haiti, was driving south from Port-au-Prince to his home. 
“This earthquake struck at a time when people were getting off work, when they were in school working, and it hit the key areas of the country,” Banatte said. 
Banatte spoke about his experiences in the after ­math of the earthquake that shocked the country over a year ago Monday evening at the Hesburgh Center. 
He has worked with CRS for eleven years, mainly overseeing large-scale agri­culture and health projects. 
Banatte was not harmed, but because communication towers were not functioning, he and the other 100 CRS employees in Les Cayes had no way of reaching the 200 CRS employees in Port-au-Prince. 
The day after the earth­quake, Banatte said he gathered his staff and asked who wanted to join him in making the arduous trek to the capital. Then he trav­eled north to Port-au-Prince with the first 35 workers to respond. 
Banatte and the rest of the CRS brought any supplies they were able to, including generators, blankets and hygiene kits that were pre­pared for hurricanes. 
“But what will strike us is when we actually reach Port -au -Prince, when we compare what we have and the number of people in need of services,” Banatte said. 
As a medical doctor, Banatte first stopped at the Hospital St. Francois de Sales, the main medical building of the city. 
Although there was already a multitude of injured Haitians waiting outside, Banatte said there was nothing he and the other doctors could do to help. The hospital was 80 percent destroyed and they could not help patients, and any other hospitals they could travel to would all be filled to capacity. 
Banatte said firefighters soon arrived at the scene, looking for people still living under the wreckage of the hospital. They dug holes that enabled Banatte to crawl through the rubble and look for supplies and equipment that were still functional. 
Later on, Hospital St. Francois de Sales opened as a temporary hospital. 1000 emergency surgeries were performed, along with 74,401 outpatient consulta­tions. Currently, it is in the middle of a 3-year rebuild­ing project. 
Along with healthcare, a large concern of CRS was figuring out how to feed vic­tims. In the beginning, it provided one million people with emergency food assis­tance. Today, it continues to distribute monthly food rations to 125,000 students. 
Shelter was another huge issue that had to be tackled. 
“People just fled their house and didn’t have any­thing,” Banatte said. “They were just lying on the grass on the first day under the sky.” 
He and the rest of the CRS handed out plastic sheeting, nails and ropes for people to construct makeshift shel ­ters. These later evolved into tent cities often seen on the news. 
Today, the relief services are relocating people to transitive shelters in their neighborhoods of origin. Banatte said their goal is to erect 8000 of these by the end of April. 
Many children were sepa­rated from their parents in the aftermath of the quake, Banatte said. The CRS set up a network to identify these children and reunite them with their families. 
The displaced person camps also contain child ­friendly spaces. 
“At these spaces they can play together, and they can also receive some psychoso­cial assistance, ” Banatte said. 
Banatte said one over ­whelming distinction of post-earthquake Haiti is the current dependence of urban populations on rural populations. 
“People living in Port-au-Prince used to be the ones supporting the surrounding provinces,” he said. “As they fled the site, they became the dependents of the ones they were supporting.” 
Thousands of individuals are employed in labor-inten­sive activities that have multiple benefits. They are working to rebuild the pres­ent city, as well as receiving a small income they can store for the future. 
Banatte said Haiti’s goal of relief, recovery and rebuild­ing has just begun. 
“I want to say that there is a lot that has been accomplished, but I have to say that there is more that needs to be done,” he said. “Solidarity is the main way to accomplish that.” 
Haiti is not only looking to rebuild, Banatte said, but to improve as well. 
“We don’t want to rebuild the country in the same way it was, we talk about build­ing it better, ” he said. “There’s a lot to be done in terms of centralization.” 
In the past, Port-au-Prince contained all the employ ­ment opportunities. Banatte said the country is aiming to balance the economy with the surrounding provinces. He said a tentative roadmap for Haiti for the next three years adds a second eco ­nomic center in the north and a third in the south. 
“How do we continue to strengthen the capacity of the communities so someone can stay out in the farms instead of sending them in and living their lives in the main cities?” Banatte said. 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday. March 22, 2011 Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 




Choir tours China over break 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s College Women’s Choir experienced the culture of China during a weeklong spring break visit involving sightseeing and performance opportuni­ties. 
Thirty-three members of the Choir participated in the trip along with sopho­more trumpet player Bethany Ledyard and senior dancer Jingqiu Guan. 
Senior Anna Bax, presi­dent of the Women’s Choir, said the group tours every 
other year.  
“This year  we  are  lucky  
e n o u g h  t o  g e t  t o  g o  t o  
China,” she said.  

Bax said the Choir per ­formed four times during 
the tour, in Nanjing and Suzhou. 
The Choir spent the rest of the trip sight ­seeing and visited Sh angh ai Normal University, Bax said. 
“I [had] never been to Asia before 
Shanghai, 

Nanjing Arts Institute. The choirs hosted a joint con­cert and sang together. 
“They have done a lot to prepare for our arrival,” 
Bax said. “Each of us 
i n  t h e  
S  a  i  n  t  
M  a  r  y  ’  s  

College Wo men’s Choir has a pen pal from that choir.” 
During the tour, the Choir performed a variety of pieces, including 
“Gordan Magnificat,” “The Belles of Saint Mary’s” and “Three Chinese Songs.” 
Bax said the Choir partici­

“I [had] never been to Asia before and [was] excited to experience the different culture.” 
Anna Bax Women’s Choir president 
and [was] 
excited to experience the different culture,” she said. The Choir performed with the Meng Girls’ Choir at the 
“They have done a lot to prepare for our arrival. Each of us in the Saint Mary’s College Women’s Choir has a pen pal from that choir.” 
Anna Bax Women’s Choir president 
pated in sever­al banquets with hosts from Shanghai and Nanjing. In addition, the Choir toured the Confucius Temple of Nanjing and went to see a Kun Opera at a local theatre 

in Nanjing. 
The Choir prepared for the tour by learning about China’s culture from Guan, a native of China. 
“[Guan] has been coming to the last 10 minutes of our Choir rehearsals to tell us a bit about the Chinese culture and to teach us 
some basic Chinese expressions and phrases,” Bax said. 
Additionally, Dixian Teng, the director of the Meng Girls ’ Choir, visited Saint Mary’s College in the fall. 
“She came for a week in November to attend our Fall Choral 
Concert and the Women’s Choir high school festival that we host every year,” she said. “She helped us work on our “Three Chinese Songs.”“ 
The Women ’s Choir launched a blog to chronicle the tour. Bax said every day of the trip, members of the Choir shared photos and stories about the trip. 
As a celebration of the end of the tour, the Choir will perform a Homecoming Concert. The concert will be held at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Dame has high standards for student conduct, takes these 



Floyd 
matters seriously, follows the facts where they lead and, 
continued from page 1 
when necessary, institutes ety tests and was then admin-appropriate sanctions at the istered a breathalyzer test, appropriate time,” Brown which recorded .19 grams of said. alcohol per 210 liters of Floyd finished his third sea-breath. son with the Irish with 79 
The officer arrested Floyd catches for 1,025 yards and 
on campus and he was 12 touchdowns. The Saint processed into the St. Joseph Paul, Minn., native’s name is County jail shortly after 4 scattered throughout the 
a.m., St. Notre Joseph Dame County Police r e c o r d spokesman book. Sgt. Bil At the Redman said. “I absolutely recognize that Notre Floyd posted D a m e
I have many things to work
$500 bond in Footb all 
on to become a better per-
the late Awards morning and son and will need to regain Ceremony w a s on Jan. 22, 
the trust of all whom I have 
released. Floyd was 
hurt within my immediate
Floyd named released a family and the Notre Dame both the statement family.” 2010 apologizing Footb all for his Most 
Michael Floyd 
actions. Valuable “I want to Notre Dame wide receiver Player and 
apologize to my family, friends, teammates, coaches, the University and the extended Notre Dame family for my behavior this weekend,” he said. “I absolutely recognize that I have many things to work on to become a better person and will need to regain the trust of all whom I have hurt within my immediate family and the Notre Dame family.” 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame is aware of the incident and is confident local police will handle it in a “prompt, thorough and professional manner.” 
Brown said the University does not publicly discuss spe­cific disciplinary cases. 
“It is well known that Notre 


IOSHA 
continued from page 1 
on all factors that contributed to the accident, including the series of decisions made on that day. We have committed to making a report of our investigation public and will do so once it is complete and we have finalized our review with IOSHA, which we expect will be in four to six weeks.” 
Notre Dame will discontinue the use of scissor lifts to film football practices, the University announced March 8 as it began installation of a remote video sys­tem at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
“I said in the days after Declan’s death that we would do every­thing in our power to make changes to ensure that such an accident does not happen again — here or elsewhere,” Jenkins said in a press release at the time. “This system is at the forefront in a completely new and innovative way.” 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Monday that the sys­tem is now operational. Spring football practice begins Wednesday at 8 a.m. 
Irish football coach Brian Kelly said Sullivan is still remembered in the football program. 
“Declan was a wonderful mem­ber of our football family and is missed to this day. We all continue to both grieve and keep his family and friends in our thoughts and prayers,” Kelly said. “I’m sure the University will use the findings from the state to enhance the investigation into this tragedy.” 
one of next 
season’s 
team cap ­
tains. 
This is Floyd’s second con­secutive offseason marred by legal issues. In January 2010, Floyd was cited for underage drinking in Minneapolis. Irish coach Brian Kelly, who had been named Notre Dame’s head coach less than two months prior to the incident, said he spoke with Floyd about making the right choic­es. 
“We reinforced to [Floyd] that making good choices is going to be paramount to his success in this football pro­gram,” Kelly said at the time. 
A court date of May 2 has been set. The first practice of the spring football season is scheduled for Wednesday at 8 a.m. 
The investigation of Sullivan’s death also prompted IOSHA to launch a statewide educational initiative to promote safe equip­ment use at Indiana schools. 
The office sent a letter to the NCAA and the Indiana High School Athletic Association asking schools to review their use of scis­sor lifts, Torres said. 
Jenkins said Notre Dame hopes to be involved in IOSHA’s educa­tional initiative. 
“We are also very interested in the IOSHA educational effort and have every intention of being a part of that to share what we learn,” he said. 
Sullivan’s parents issued a state­ment following IOSHA’s March 15 announcements and press confer­ence. They thanked the University for continued support and individ­uals who have donated to the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund the family established. The Sullivan family continues to work with Notre Dame to find a way to memorialize Sullivan’s life. 
“This report is an important step in preventing future acci­dents, but its findings do not change the fact that Declan is not with us,” the statement stated. “We are grateful for the respect shown us over the past several months by everyone connected with Notre Dame. The University has maintained an open line of communication throughout this period and has provided timely answers to our questions.” 
Douglas Farmer contributed to this report. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 22, 2011 
tact with the students in Mayinja said canceling the heard about it, it was from ing. I am not sure, ” Nagoya is crucial to ensur-program was a matter of Twitter,” she said. “I didn’t Kobayashi said. “I am just 

Japan 

ing a safe and smooth study maintaining an environment think it was a scam at first, I doing it because I want to do abroad experience. conducive to students’ aca-was just wondering what whatever I can.” 
continued from page 1 

“We communicate with demic success. happened.” The religious mission of 
on for a while, as far as them daily, either on the “The real reason for not Kobayashi, who served as Notre Dame should inspire earthquakes go, a little over phone or by email. We have sending students to Tokyo the president of the Japan the university community to a minute.” told them to register with was not so much the earth-Club in 2009-10, contacted extend a helping hand, 
Gutierrez said the damage the embassy, which they quake but the aftermath. her par -Kobayashi to Nagoya was minimal due should have done already, Power is disrupted, water ents in said. to its distance from the epi-and we have told them not shortages. Who knows, food Taiwan, to “I don ’t center. For the most part, to travel,” she said. “We also might be an issue,” she said. see what think as a she said things told them to “You don’t want to have that was going Catholic uni­
“My friends in Tokyo were 

did not seem be ready if uncertainty with students on. In v e r s i t y
[affected]. They were all 

different. we decide to who are not only trying to s p e a k i n g Notre Dame 
“We were a evacuate learn where they are and get w i t h safe. They were all awake, is more bit shaken up, them from their bearings but wonder if f r i e n d s responsible 
which was great. If it hit at 

but otherwise Nagoya.” they have water and food. It who still [for relief 
“People were discussing night, they would all be 
nothing hap -Gutierrez is too much.” live in efforts], but 
the earthquake, but
pened here. In said she has Mayinja said in addition to Japan, she sleeping.” they should fact, I spent nothing out of the not been losing a lot of the aspects of said the be more the rest of the ordinary was going on.” able to take a good study abroad experi-e a r t h -Airi Kobayashi responsive day after the part in any ence, OIS was also con -q u a k e in the sense 
junior

e a r t h q u a k e relief efforts cerned with the needs of could have they are 
Massiel Gutierrez 
w a n d e r i n g yet, but Japan and Sophia University. struck at a more aware around down -junior plans on “We also worry about the w o r s e of the situa­town with a participating host country, the people who time. tion and friend of mine in a will receive us,” she said. “ M y they are and everything fundraiser “Are they really in the prop-friends in Tokyo were more likely to help with was business organized by er frame of mind to worry [affected]. They were all open arms,” she said. as usual, ” international about us when they have all safe. They were all awake, Kobayashi said despite the Gutierrez said. “People were students. Aside from poten-these other things going on? which was great. If it hit at geographic distance, discussing the earthquake, tially canceled concerts, she It just didn’t seem fair to night, they would all be Americans should feel but nothing out of the ordi-said the earthquake has not expect them to do what they sleeping,” Kobayashi said. inspired to help those in nary was going on.” affected her itinerary. need to do for us and for our “The biggest cause of death Japan who are in need. 
The biggest challenge to “Unless I get an opportuni-students.” during earthquakes is when “I am an international stu­returning to normalcy has ty to go to one of the affect-While the Tokyo program things start falling and dent, and one of the things been the representation of ed areas to help in some may be reinstated as soon as crushing [people].” this country taught me is the aftermath in Western manner, though, outside of next semester, Zhu said stu-Kobayashi said her friends philanthropy and community media, Gutierrez said. that my plans haven ’t dents affected by the cancel-mentioned problems with service,” she said. “It does­
“It’s been extremely sensa-changed much,” she said. lation are still exploring water, electricity and com-n’t matter where you are tionalist in its reporting and OIS cancelled its Tokyo both academic and study munications in the after -from.” has been causing a lot of program for the spring abroad options. math of the disaster. She Alumni organizations have grief and stress and anxiety semester on March 18. Though they cannot return said the tsunami that struck been particularly receptive among the international Three students were sched-to Notre Dame this semester, Japan afterwards was worse to aiding relief efforts, community here,” she said. uled to said she is than the earthquake itself. Kobayashi said. “Japan as a whole has been leave for p l e a s e d “I think that was the worst “The Asian Pacific Alumni very calm and rational about S o p h i a most of thing to happen to Japan. was the first one to respond the situation here.” University them still Even now, they are just to my emails. They say they 
“The Notre Dame Office of 

Gutierrez said the entire on March can gradu-starting to recover most of are already talking as a country has worked effi -27. International Studies has ate on the bodies,” Kobayashi said. committee how they can ciently to accommodate Associate managed to be concerned but time “Most of the deaths hap -raise funds and advertise for those most affected by the Director of “They pened from the tsunami.” [the Japan Club],” she said. 
rational, which has been 

disaster. OIS Julliet are in Kobayashi said being far “The Notre Dame Alumni 
“Lots of other cities are Mayinja extremely rare among g o o d away from the situation was Association also responded welcoming people from the said can -American universities’ study s h a p e , ” a difficult experience. that they definitely want to affected areas to stay, and celing the Zhu said. “I broke down on Friday help.” 
abroad offices.” 

there are many volunteer p r o g r a m “They are when I first heard about it,” The variety of relief events teams who have gone up was a chal-not really she said. “I was crying all is meant to showcase north to help,” she said. lenging Massiel Gutierrez behind at day and I didn’t know what Japanese culture, Kobayashi 
Gutierrez said the Office of d e c i s i o n junior all.” to do.” said. International Studies (OIS) for the J u n i o r Kobayashi is planning a “For example, the paper has maintained steady con-d e p a r t -A i r i variety of fundraising crane project is unique to tact with her and Theresa ment. Kobayashi, events, including a charity Japan,” she said. “For the Arico, the only other Notre “The key w h o s e dinner and selling paper dinner show, we are trying Dame student studying at thing here mother is cranes, shirts and wrist -to have a video as an intro-Nanzan University. is these decisions are not Japanese, said she first bands. She said she person-duction of what is happening 
“The Notre Dame Office of made lightly,” she said. “For heard of the earthquake ally felt she had to help in Japan right now and what International Studies has the students in Tokyo, we online right after it hit. Japan recover. the Japan Club is doing for managed to be concerned made the decision but on the “I was actually still awake, “I decided I didn’t want to the effort.” but rational, which has been other hand we realize here around 4 in the morning sit around and do nothing. I extremely rare among we have a semester we need here because I was working heard people have said what Contact Sam Stryker at American universities’ study to figure out.” on a project. When I first I am doing is really inspir-sstryke1@nd.edu abroad offices,” Gutierrez said. “They have kept up with the news, with us and with Nanzan, but in a way that assuaged my nervous­ness that they would send me home unnecessarily.” 
OIS Assistant Director Dr. Hong Zhu said the depart­ments worked swiftly to con­firm students studying in Nagoya were safe the day the earthquake hit. 
“By the time I came into the office, I heard from our host institution. They emailed us that our students were safe. I called both the students,” she said. “They told me they were doing well. We contacted their parents and told them they were doing fine.” 
Gutierrez said she has been able to express her safety to both family and friends back home. 
“My parents were worried for a little bit, but once I assured them that I was safe and why I think so, they calmed down,” she said. “My friends have been slightly more panicked. A few of them still don’t understand why I’m staying.” 
Zhu said maintaining con­


Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



Panel weighs nuclear safety 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — State lawmakers called on California utilities Monday to delay efforts to relicense nuclear power plants until the companies complete detailed seismic maps to get a true pic­ture of the risks posed by earthquakes and tsunamis. 
State senators raised sharp questions about whether California’s nuclear plants can withstand a major natural dis­aster such as the one on March 11 that has left Japan scrambling to control radia­tion coming from some of its reactors. 
Lawmakers also questioned whether the utilities have been dragging their feet on conducting three-dimensional seismic studies called for in a 2008 state report to assess the risks posed by offshore faults. 
Pacific Gas and Electric Co. has applied to renew its license to operate the two reactors at Diablo Canyon Power Plant near San Luis Obispo, which expire in 2024 and 2025. 
“I would ask sincerely that PG&E suspend or withdraw that application” until the additional seismic mapping is completed, said Sen. Sam Blakeslee, R-San Luis Obispo, a geophysicist who has been a frequent critic of Diablo Canyon. He said he would pursue legislation to thwart the utility until the mapping is done. 
Blakeslee in 2009 intro­duced a bill that would have required the utility to meet that and other requirements; it won unanimous support in the Legislature but then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed it. 
Lloyd Cluff, a seismic expert for PG&E, said work started in October for shallow mapping and the utility will apply in April for a permit for deep mapping down to 10 kilome­ters below the surface. 
“We’re doing it as we speak,” Cluff said. 
Edison has applied to the Public Utilities Commission for permission to charge ratepay­ers an estimated $21.6 million for similar studies at the San Onofre plant north of San Diego along the Southern California coast, said Caroline McAndrews, director of licensing at the plant. 
The license for San Onofre expires in 2022 and Edison has not yet applied to renew it. 
California gets a total of about 12 percent of its power from the Diablo Canyon and San Onofre nuclear plants. 
Outside the hearing room, Daniel Hirsch, a lecturer in nuclear policy at University of California, Santa Cruz, noted California’s reactors are in one of the most seismically active areas of the world after Japan. “What’s going on in Japan could happen here,” he said. 
Japan’s plants were not designed to handle the ground movement or wave heights they were subjected to this month, said Steve David, director of site services at Diablo Canyon. 
Diablo Canyon and San Onofre have been designed to survive much larger forces, utility representatives testi­fied. 
“We’ve gone back this week and verified that (safety) equipment is in place and that the operators have been trained,” David said. 
The senators are reviewing whether California’s nuclear power plants and natural gas pipelines are safe from earth­quakes, as Japan’s crisis rais­es uncomfortable comparisons to the nuclear plants on the 
U.S. West Coast. 
“Japan has always been a leader in preparedness,” said Sen. Ellen Corbett, a San Leandro Democrat who chairs the Senate Select Committee on Earthquake and Disaster Preparedness, Response and Recovery 
“It’s time to revisit the safety of these plants in light of what we have learned from Japan,.” Corbett said. 
The utilities contend the plants have been designed and located to protect them from the most serious natural threats considered possible at the sites. 
For example, Diablo Canyon is anchored in bedrock and has safety systems and emer­gency reservoirs located at 80 feet or more above sea level. San Onofre is protected by a 30-foot seawall. 


Judge orders Loughner toundergomentalexam 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — An Arizona judge on Monday ordered the suspect in the January shooting rampage in Tucson to undergo a mental evaluation at a specialized facili­ty in Missouri as soon as possi­ble. 
The evaluation will be video­taped and provided to prosecu­tors and defense attorneys, U.S. District Judge Larry Burns said in his late Monday ruling. The judge also ordered that the exam be conducted no later than April 29, and that findings be reported to the court and attorneys on both sides by May 11. 
Prosecutors had argued that Jared Lee Loughner’s exam should be conducted at a so-called medical referral center that provides forensic services and has increased resources, and recommended the federal Bureau of Prisons facility in Springfield, Mo. 
Medical referral centers use psychiatrists employed by the bureau. 
Loughner’s lawyers have said the exam should be done by an outside expert, not by a Bureau of Prisons employee, at a Tucson prison. They also wanted assur­ances that the evaluation doesn’t expand into a review of their client’s sanity. 
Lead defense attorney Judy Clark wrote in a court filing last week that moving Loughner would harm the defense team’s efforts to develop an attorney-client relationship. The defense also was concerned that Loughner is “seriously ill,” and that moving him to Missouri could worsen his state. 
Loughner, 22, has pleaded not guilty to charges stemming from the Jan. 8 attack that killed six and wounded 13, including Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. She remains at a rehabilitation center in Houston as she recovers from a bullet wound to the brain. 
Burns agreed that the Springfield facility is the best place for the exam, and ordered that the scope of the exam should be limited to whether Loughner is competent to stand trial, not whether he was sane at the time of the shooting. 
“The question at issue is whether the defendant is presently suffering from a mental disease or defect rendering him mentally incompetent to the extent that he is unable to under­stand the nature and conse­quences of the proceedings against him, or to assist properly in his defense,” Burns wrote. 
Burns cited a memo written by Dr. Donald Lewis, chief of psychi­atry for the Bureau of Prisons. He wrote that the Springfield facility is best for Loughner’s exam because it “has medical staff available for neurology and other organic testing, and has far more forensic staff and full-time psychiatrists available to provide round-the-clock assistance.” 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 22, 2011 


Storm strands drivers, hikers 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — A fierce spring storm that stranded hundreds of drivers along a major freeway, prompted the rescue of stranded hikers and closed roads into Yosemite National Park dwindled to showers Monday as a new wet weather system headed toward California. 
Ventura County deputies worked through the night to rescue 32 hikers stranded in Los Padres National Forest when the storm swelled rivers and dumped snow in the remote area of Southern California. 
Three people were treated for hypothermia, sheriff's Deputy Shane Matthews said. 
Teresa Norris, who was leading a Sierra Club wilder­ness course, said she had planned to be out of the forest before the storm hit, but the bad weather arrived earlier than she expected. 
“It was just like a blizzard where I was,” said Norris, 56, who was camped at an eleva­tion of 4,200 feet. “The wind was lifting me up, and I was trying to hold down my tent.” 
A separate group of nearly 100 teens and youngsters were stuck at a snowed-in mountain campground in another part of the park until crews managed to clear roads using snow plows. 
A Kern County Fire Department bus loaded with blankets, ready-to-eat meals, water and sports drinks took the 10-to 17­year-olds to a meeting point at a gas station, department spokesman Sean Collins said. 
“They might have been staying at the campground for the weekend, but when it was time for them to leave they couldn't get out,” Collins said. 
Farther south, four people were rescued from the roof of an SUV in Thousand Oaks when they tried to ford a rain-swollen flood control channel. 
Meanwhile, roads into Yosemite National Park were closed Monday as a result of mud, rock slides, fallen trees and heavy snow. 
Park officials said power was out across Yosemite Valley and several hundred visitors were being evacuat­ed, although campers at six sites and 150 guests of park hotels had chosen to remain. 
Officials said the weekend storm dropped more than 
3.5 feet of snow throughout the park. 

Highways 41, 120 and 140 entering the park have been closed. Officials were unsure when those roads would reopen. 
The nasty weather was mov­ing out of the region and flood advisories were canceled for Los Angeles County. However, the National Weather Service warned debris flows and flash flooding were still possible in some areas. 
A milder storm was expect­ed to hit the state on Wednesday. 
Earlier, snow and ice closed Interstate 5 for more than 12 hours beginning late Sunday, forcing travelers to spend the night at motels, gas stations or along the side of the main route linking Southern and Northern California until authorities began escorting traffic through the pass. 
People tried the make the most of the challenging situa­tion. 
“I had 150 people. They were all over, man,” said Jesse Khalid, who worked the overnight shift at a service station in Lebec, along the 4,100-footTejon Pass. “Most of them came in my store. They started drinking coffee, party­ing.” 
The section of Interstate 5 known as the Grapevine often closes during bad weather. 
The storm hit first and hardest in Santa Barbara County, where a family of four, including a 6-month-old child and a dog, were rescued Sunday from a sailboat buffet­ed by wind and waves off East Beach. 
During the rescue, a Harbor Patrol boat began taking on water and needed help from a second boat. In addition, a 70­foot tugboat broke free from its anchorage and struck the sailboat, authorities told the Santa Barbara News-Press. 
The downpour dumped more than 10 inches of rain in Santa Barbara County. 
Elsewhere in the state, the storm toppled trees onto cars and through windows, rain­water collapsed roofs and cars went skating into each other. 
Long Beach fire officials said crews extinguished a fire Monday in an 80-to-100 foot tree that had apparently been struck by lightning. 
The Los Angeles Fire Department said it received 62 percent more 911 calls on Sunday than on average. 
“We have debris flow, flood­ing, electrical wires down, trees that fell onto cars and structures in addition to increased traffic collisions,” spokesman Erik Scott said. 
However, hillsides stood up well in Southern California foothill communities consid­ered at risk of mudslides because wildfires blackened the slopes last year. 



NRC official confident in US nuclear plants 
Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md. — The nuclear crisis in Japan, while severe, appears to be stabilizing and does not warrant any imme­diate changes in U.S. nuclear plants, a top U.S. nuclear official said Monday. 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s executive director for operations, Bill Borchardt, said officials have “a high degree of confidence” that operations at the 104 nuclear reactors in 31 states are safe. He said inspec­tors at each of the plants have redoubled efforts to guard against any safety breaches. 
Borchardt gave NRC commis­sioners a detailed look at the Fukushima Dai-ichi plan, dam­aged in the March 11 earth­quake and tsunami, and the U.S. response thus far. 
Borchardt told commissioners that Units 1, 2 and 3 at the crip­pled Fukushima plant have some core damage, but that contain­ment for those three reactors has not been breached. 
“I would say optimistically that things appear to be on the verge of stabilizing,” he said. 
The Tokyo Electric Power Co., which operates the troubled plant, has been able to bring off-site power onto the site from a nearby transmission line, Borchardt said, the first sign of progress at the plant in recent days. Water is being injected into the reactor vessels in Units 1, 2 and 3, and containment in all three units appears to be func­tional, he said. 
The five-member commission was reviewing the Japanese cri­sis — it is the worst nuclear dis­aster in a quarter-century — and was set to approve a 90-day safety review of operations at 
U.S. nuclear plants to comply with a call last week by President Barack Obama. 
NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko said his agency has a responsi­bility to the American people to undertake “a systematic and methodical review of the safety of our own domestic nuclear facilities,” in light of the Japanese disaster. 
The nuclear plant’s cooling systems were wrecked by the massive earthquake and tsuna­mi that devastated northeastern Japan on March 11. Since then, conditions at the plant have been volatile; a plume of smoke rose from two reactor units Monday, prompting workers to evacuate. 
As work at the plant continues, 
U.S. officials will look to see whether information from Japan can be applied in the United States to ensure U. S. reactors remain safe, Jaczko said. 
But even some of his fellow commissioners had questions about the U.S. response. 
Commissioner George Apostolakis wondered why the NRC did not close some older nuclear plants, as Germany did. 
“Are we less prudent than the Germans?” Apostolakis asked. 


Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Wireless deal raises questions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — AT&T’s surprise announcement that it plans to acquire T-Mobile USA will force federal regulators to confront a difficult antitrust question: Can American consumers get good wireless service at a fair price if they must choose between just two national companies? 
That debate will be at the center of the government review of the $39 billion cash-and -stock deal announced Sunday. If approved, the pur­chase would catapult AT&T past Verizon Wireless to become the nation’s largest cellphone service provider. 
The deal would combine AT&T Inc., the nation’s sec-ond-largest wireless carrier, with T-Mobile USA, the fourth-largest, which is now owned by Germany’s Deutsche Telekom AG. And it could pave the way for Verizon to go after Sprint Nextel Corp., which would be a distant No. 3 and the only remaining national provider. 
None of the smaller U.S. carriers, including Leap Wireless, Metro PCS and U.S. Cellular, has complete nation­wide coverage. 
Officials at the Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission could spend a year or more scrutinizing the deal before deciding whether to block it or allow it to proceed with substantial conditions attached. 
“I am not convinced that this deal is unthinkable,” said Jeffrey Silva, an analyst with Global Medley Advisors. “But it’s a very, very heavy lift.” 
Regulators will conduct a thorough market-by-market analysis to determine how many wireless choices con­sumers would have in com­munities across the country. And even if they allow the deal to go through, govern­ment officials would probably require the combined compa­ny to sell off assets — includ­ing wireless spectrum, cell towers and customers — in particular markets that are too concentrated. 
The bigger question facing federal officials is whether the enormous cost of building a nationwide wireless net­work means that a market dominated by only two com­panies is the best they can hope for. 
And if that’s the case, what kinds of merger conditions should the government impose on AT&T to prevent it from abusing its power? 
“This marketplace doesn’t work even before this merg­er,” said Mark Cooper, direc­tor of research for the Consumer Federation of America. “I want policymak­ers to confront the fiction that competition in this market is sufficient to protect con ­sumers.” 
Cooper, for one, would like to see federal regulators bar AT&T from engaging in com­mon industry practices such as charging consumers large fees for text messaging and for ending contracts before they expire. 
He would also like to see government officials impose stronger “network neutrality” rules on AT&T’s wireless sys­tem to ensure that sub ­scribers can access apps and 
other online applications without carrier interference. 
Net neutrality rules adopted by the FCC late last year pro­hibit broadband providers from discriminating against online traffic, but they give wireless companies a consid­erable amount of flexibility to manage traffic on their sys­tems. 
Analyst Rebecca Arbogast of the firm Stifel Nicolaus believes government regula­tors will also consider condi­tions intended to help smaller wireless providers compete. 
Those could include data-roaming obligations, which would require AT&T to let smaller regional wireless companies use its network to send data traffic in places where they do not offer their own service. The FCC is cur­rently considering adopting industry-wide data roaming rules. 
Government officials could also impose “special access” 
obligations, which would guarantee rival wireless com­panies access to vital lines owned by AT&T that they rely on to connect their towers to broader telecommunications networks and the Internet. 
Smaller carriers — most notably Sprint — argue that they pay excessive prices for that access because much of the critical network infra­structure is owned by the big landline telephone companies, AT&T and Verizon, which compete with them in the wireless arena. 
If government officials do eventually sign off on AT&T’s proposed acquisition of T-Mobile, they will likely require the combined compa­ny to sell off wireless spec­trum in certain markets. The hope would be that these air­waves — which are in scarce supply — would wind up in the hands of smaller players such as Sprint and Leap, pos­sibly restoring some competi­tion. 



Pawlenty announces exploratory committee 


Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty pressed toward a White House campaign Monday by formally announcing an exploratory committee with a call for backers to help him “take back our government.” 
“At a young age, I saw up close the face of challenge, the face of hardship and the face of job loss,” the Republican said in a two-minute video message designed to appeal to tea party activists and GOP rank and file facing economic inse­curity. 
“Over the last year I’ve traveled to nearly every state in the country and I know many Americans are feeling that way today. I know that feeling. I lived it. But there is 
a  brighter  future  for  
America.”  
The  optimistic  note  

harkened to another upbeat politician: President Barack Obama, who ran on the mes­sage of hope and change in 2008. 
Pawlenty’s announcement of the exploratory committee almost certainly will lead to a full-blown candidacy for the GOP nomination in a field that has been slow to form. The winner would face the daunting task of unseating an incumbent president. 
“We, the people of the United States, will take back our government. This is our country. Our founding fathers created it,” Pawlenty said in the Hollywood-style video that featured a soaring soundtrack. It was posted on his Facebook page Monday afternoon. 
“Americans embraced it. Ronald Reagan personified it. And Lincoln stood coura­geously to protect it. That’s why today, I’m announcing the formation of an exploratory committee to run for president of the United States. Join the team and together we’ll restore America.” 
It was the first definitive statement from a potential 2012 candidate on his or her White House campaign. 
The Republican presiden­tial field has been slow to form compared to past elec­tion cycles as familiar names such as Sarah Palin mull bids and other potential hopefuls like Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich work behind the scenes on their candidacies. The harsh media spotlight and the expense of a full-scale campaign operation deterred Republicans from early announcements in the expected race against Obama, who is certain to raise hundreds of millions of dollars. 
“At this point, the clock is ticking. They’ve got less than a year,” said Mo Elleithee, a Democratic strategist who is a veteran of presidential pri­maries. 
“The first votes are going to be cast in 10 months and it’s a lot of work to build an organization in Iowa and raise the money to start to develop your message. Ten months isn’t that much time.” 
The first Republican presi­dential debate is just a few weeks away on May 2 in California. 
Pawlenty, a conservative Republican who ran a Democratic-leaning state for two terms, has methodically moved toward a national campaign since announcing in 2009 that he wouldn’t seek a third term. Since then, he stepped up his travel to early contest states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, recruited Republican aides with presi­dential campaign experience, and courted GOP donors. 
Pawlenty’s advisers are banking on a strong showing in Iowa to propel him through other critical pri­mary states. He has made near monthly visits to Iowa since last summer and is due there the first two days of April. His next New Hampshire stop is scheduled for April 15, when he’ll take part in a tea party-sponsored tax day rally. 
Pawlenty has made over­tures to the fiscal conserva­tives and tea partyers whose top concerns are Washington spending and the national debt, as well as the social conservatives who oppose abortion and gay rights and hold sway in the leadoff Iowa caucuses. His efforts to appeal to a broad swath of the Republican Party signal that he’s trying to cast him­self as a candidate who every party member can back. 
Pawlenty’s biggest hurdle to the nomination may be that he’s far less well-known nationally than other Republicans who are expect­ed to run. A Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted earlier this month found roughly six in 10 voters had no opinion of Pawlenty. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, March 22, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Appalachia trip is more than service 
Every spring and fall break, the Center for Social Concerns sends stu­dents across the Appalachian region and various urban centers to under­stand and try to help with the poverty 
in the region. But  
as I’m sure every- Ankur Chawla  
one who’s ever  
gone on one of the  Assistant  
trips knows we  Scene Editor  
come back with so  
much more than  
the feeling of service.  

I have been lucky enough to attend a spring seminar each of the past two years, working in New Orleans, La., and Big Creek, W.Va., respectively, with each trip being uniquely awe­some. This column is a tribute to those moments that make me eager to head back next fall. 
Nothing epitomizes these times more than Tuesday night this past week. Our service group was enter­tained by the always classy sounds of bluegrass music performed by a man named Chester and taught how to dance by his musical partner Manuel. Donning a green hat with “Flatfooter” across the top, Manuel moved across the floor like butter on a fry pan. 
The professional dancer was kind enough to show us his moves, both on the floor and with the ladies. And Manuel wasn’t just light on his feet when listening to bluegrass, he was more than happy to “smang it” with us and whip his hair back and forth. He even did the dreaded “broom dance” (literally pretending a broom was his dance partner). 
Meanwhile, Chester played his gui­tar and sang songs the likes of “When the Rooster Came on the Farm” (pun intended) and “Penicillin Penny” (referring to a woman that may require you go see a pharmacist). These hilarious parodies did more than get a few cheap laughs from us students –– they created an instant bond through humor and music. 
These antics, while incredibly fun, opened the door to serious conversa­tion about the poverty and problems of rural Appalachia. Chester was able to open up and let us into his thoughts and beliefs. This encounter was characteristic of the entire trip. Being able to have an incredible time and a lot of fun while still helping and showing concern for the problems of the area. 
What’s truly amazing about the Appalachia seminars is this very bal­ance. Those of us on the trip were able to enjoy ourselves making “that’s what she said” jokes and being utter­ly awful at basketball while at the same time having serious discussions about what our role in the region and in service is. It’s hard to imagine throwing together 10 random stu­dents for a week could be a venue for making some of my closest friends at this university, but that’s exactly what happened these past two years. I hope those of you reading this (even if it is just the nine others who served with me in Big Creek) will take the opportunity to participate in one of the CSC’s seminars. I can personally guarantee it will be one of the best weeks you’ve ever had. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

Nuclear catastrophe, risk awareness 
In the wake of the tragic earthquake and ensuing nuclear crisis in Japan, nuclear energy is returning to the fore­front of the news as a hot topic for discus­sion. Many individuals and nations are re­thinking their stance on nuclear energy, The GreenMan taking the threat of nuclear meltdown at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant as a wake-up call to decrease future nuclear projects and increase security measures at existing nuclear facilities. For them, the nuclear accident has raised the question of whether or not nuclear reactors pose a significant threat to human health and safety. 
But for me, the more important question is why we need such a dramatic wake-up call to take these risks seriously. My intro­ductory economics classes taught me that people tend to be risk-adverse, but that of course assumes that people understand the risks they are taking. They seem to have glossed over the fact that people tend to be risk-oblivious as well. We assume that certain risks are so remote that they could never actually happen. 
It is not the case that everyone was igno­rant of the risks a major earthquake posed to Japanese nuclear reactors. In 2004, American geoscientist Leuren Moret made the eerie prediction that “It is not a ques­tion of whether or not a nuclear disaster will occur in Japan; it is a question of when it will occur.” (May 23, 2004, The Japan Times). However, despite such pre­dictions and warnings, Japan continued to believe that nuclear meltdown would never happen there, and even built three additional nuclear reactors since 2004. 
The Fukushima Daiichi facility was pre­pared to handle earthquakes, but not one on the scale of last week’s. The chances of an earthquake above a 7.9 magnitude seemed too remote to prepare for, but it happened; the recent earthquake was a 

9.0. One might draw a parallel to New Orleans, where the city was prepared to handle hurricanes, but not one on the scale of Katrina. We live in a world where we’ve decided not to always prepare for the worst-case scenario, because we tell ourselves it’s such a remote possibility –– “That’ll never happen. Never in a million years.” 
Today, the U.S. has 104 commercial nuclear reactors, the majority of which are in close proximity to population cen­ters. To bring the discussion even closer to home, there is a commercial nuclear reac­tor outside Benton Harbor, Mich. –– just 26 miles away from South Bend. Currently, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is recommending that citizens within 50 miles of the Fukushima Daiichi facility evacuate their homes. 
A report issued last week by the Union of Concerned Scientists reveals 14 “near­misses” in U.S. nuclear plant safety in 2010 alone and warns “our luck at nuclear roulette may someday run out.” Then again, it may not. The odds are admittedly small. But the odds were small for Fukushima Daiichi, too. (The odds of a No. 10-seed and a No. 11-seed playing each other in the NCAA tournament were also remote, but we all know too well now that that’s possible too.) 
But you know which energy sources have the smallest odds of causing massive human health catastrophes? Energy sources that don’t pose any inherent risks to human health, like wind and solar. Yes, there have been workplace accidents sur­rounding the construction of windmills. 
But nothing about the wind or sunshine is by its nature damaging to the human person. Nuclear power generation, on the other hand, necessarily produces radioac­tive wastes which are harmful to human health, wastes that we have yet to figure out how to dispose of safely. Likewise, coal-fired power generation necessarily exposes workers and the general popula­tion to particulate and gaseous substances that are harmful to human health. 
However, my ultimate goal here is not necessarily to convince you that the risks of nuclear outweigh its benefits (though it’s probably clear that that is my opinion). There are many considerations in the nuclear energy debate, which I cannot possibly hope to treat in a single column. So you may or may not be risk-adverse with regard to nuclear energy and that’s fine. But you should not be risk-oblivious. We should all take the time to understand the risks that we’re building into different aspects of the infrastructure of our society, whether it’s through our energy, food, or water. 
Understand the amount of risk that industries and the government have decid­ed is allowable, and if you’re not willing to accept that level of risk, do something to change it. 
The GreenMan is an anonymous eco-conscious observer of life at Notre Dame, providing environmental commentary and advice to the campus community since 2010. Feel free to email your environmental living questions to the GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com. 


Steps to end reliance on oil 
Fuel is a hot commodity and one we Americans often underestimate in our relatively low-cost energy market. Our infrastructure, our politics and our very lifestyle are all designed with the need in mind to allocate energy the most Editorial Board efficiently. Even down to the level The Maneater of college stu­dents, the energy market has countless strings that tie down finances and resources. 
We notice this most heavily in the price of gasoline. Often we bemoan the prices of fuel when they rise near the $4 per gallon mark, but we fail to realize that the U.S. actually enjoys relatively cheap fuel prices compared to nations like Great Britain or France who pay more than $7 per gallon. 
The U.S. government has been subsi­dizing oil companies for decades in order to offset the cost of gasoline to con­sumers. That means almost $40 billion in taxpayer money is paid directly to oil companies for fuel each year. 
We are one of the few countries who do this, and it begs the question – what if we allocated that money beyond oil? 
A new wave of hybrids and fully elec­tric vehicles has recently become avail­able to consumers, and they seem to be catching on fairly well. But the technolo­gy is only a newcomer in an arena of 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night.” 
Edgar Allan Poe
U.S. author and poet 
giants. 

A bill recently died in Congress that proposed cutting oil subsidies complete­ly. Undoubtedly, doing so would increase the costs of fuel. But what if we took the $40 billion and gave it back to con­sumers, in the form of credits house­holds could use to purchase an electric vehicle. 
House Republicans were responsible for killing the “Ending Big Oil Tax Subsidies” Act, but it almost certainly traces back even farther to energy lob­byists infecting legislation. 
How long is it going to take for us to realize we’ve been mucking around in oil long enough? Politicians continue to stall legislation that would release the death grip oil companies have on the energy market. How does that benefit us or count as forward thinking? 
We have no excuses for staying grounded in oil like we are. We are a progressive society, and the technology is there. 
The answer to stymieing oil subsidies is to cut off demand for oil itself, and that’s where our generation can succeed. 
It’s simple. Cutting oil subsidies will cause the price of gasoline to increase toward its natural equilibrium. The high price will necessarily shrink demand for oil and create massive demand for non-oil dependant transportation. 
Taking the money from oil subsidies, and giving it to households for electric cars in a cash-for-clunkers-esque man­ner would give the auto-industry more than enough incentive to innovate away from oil in order to make massive gains off the new clean energy market’s demand. 

Rallying around high-speed rail devel­opment and promoting infrastructure changes to accommodate more clean energy use are just a couple ways we can move away from this archaic age of oil. 
It’s our generation who is ultimately responsible for realizing enough is enough, that the oil fad should have died decades ago. The technology is there, has been there for a long time, and there’s no reason for us to continue driv­ing our parents’ cars. 
If we are to call ourselves a progres­sive generation, we can’t allow oil com­panies to continue weighing us down. 
If we create the demand, the market will follow. Students need to realize they in fact do carry enough influence to change demand, and ultimately, the way we consume energy. 
This column originally ran in the March 16 edition of The Maneater, serving the University of Missouri. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Play by the rules,but be ferocious.” 
Phil Knightco-founder and chair of Nike 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 22, 2011 page 11 
 ETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Spirit of exclusion 
For those of us who fight for GLBT rights at Notre Dame, a clear pattern quickly becomes evident. Year in and year out, the administration finds yet another excuse as to why we can’t “push the envelope” at a Catholic institution like Notre Dame. In regards to gaining approval for a GLBT student group and adding sexual orientation to the nondiscrimination clause, many excuses have been made over the past decade: “We are the most prominent Catholic school in the country and have too many ties to The Vatican;” “We already do enough for our GLBT students;” “There is not enough trust between the administration and our GLBT students;” “We don’t have a club for our ‘straight’ students, so we can not have one for our GLBT students.” The list goes on and on. 
Despite the constant rejection, students on campus continue to apply each year for a GLBT club or some form of gay-straight alliance (GSA). Petitions are signed by students, facul­ty, staff and alumni to add “sexual orientation” to the nondis­crimination clause. And the fight goes on. The excuses made by the administration simply are just that: excuses. While it is true that the University does far more for its GLBT students now in 2011 than it did in 1991, we are still in the homophobic Stone Ages compared to other elite colleges and universities throughout the country, including many other major Catholic universities. 
One of the most glaring contradictions may be that Saint Mary’s has both an officially approved GSA (SAGA) as well as an inclusive nondiscrimination statement. Is church teaching different at Saint Mary’s than it is at Notre Dame? And what about the 28 Catholic colleges and universities that offer domestic partner benefits to gays and lesbians? Check the 2007 Human Rights Campaign study for yourself to see. The largest Catholic university in the country in terms of number of students, DePaul, even has its own GLBT office, as well as three GLBT student groups and an inclusive nondiscrimination clause. 
In the face of the tragic suicides of GLBT students at schools across the country earlier this year, we must fight even harder to stop the administration’s homophobia and intolerance. Put your name on the petition and let it be made known that you do not agree with the homophobic policies that the administra­tion has strictly enforced throughout our University’s history. Separate is not equal. The thousands of GLBT alumni from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College, as well as like-minded alumni of all sexual orientations, will continue to fight by your side on the march to full equality. 
Liam Dacey 
alumnus ‘04 GALA ND SMC Chair Mar. 20 

Lance Gallop 
alumnus ‘05 GALA ND SMC Vice Chair Mar. 20 

Tessa Sainz 
alumna ‘03 GALA ND SMC Secretary Mar. 20 

Melanie Lemay 
alumna ‘10 GALA ND SMC Treasurer Mar. 20 

Tom O’Brien 
alumnus ‘86 GALA ND SMC past Chair Mar. 20 


Tradition of East Lounge 
I would like to open with the statement that I am a student in the Program of Liberal Studies. Students in our course of study inevitably pick up some respect for tradition. This is of course a fitting sentiment for a Notre Dame student. 
Notre Dame students carry their love of tradition to their faith, their fun and their LaFortune. LaFortune is divided into many parts, each with its own culture. I personally frequent LaMent, that is, LaFortune basement. Even the basement is divided very clearly into parts with different rules and norms. These rules, like many of the rules and norms of our own culture, are largely unwritten. The two rooms between which it is imperative to distinguish are the West Lounge and the East Lounge. I have lived more in LaFortune’s West Lounge than I have in my own dorm, and in my time there the rules have become apparent. The West Lounge, which is the main room, is a social space filled with wacky antics and oddly arranged, vaguely ugly furniture. 
People often tell me that they have a rough night of work and cannot afford to indulge in the distractions of the West Lounge. 
So they go to the East Lounge. The East Lounge is traditionally quiet. Not arbitrarily so, but because LaFortune needs a silent space, and the great thinkers of Notre Dame culture have deemed East Lounge that place. Though the official policies of LaFortune have no such dictum, any student with a respect for Aristotle, Plato and Fr. Hesburgh knows that East Lounge is the location that our forefathers have given us to study in respectful silence. My comrades, I know that tradition is not wrought from iron, and that when necessary one must be able to alter it, but I see no adequate reason to drive away the students who have been enjoying their land, their lounge in silence, with your imperialist, impolite noise. My fellow PLSers, please, live according the rules of LaFortune. There is ample space for your conversation in other parts of LaFortune. 

James Stein 
junior Saint Edward's Hall Mar. 10 


Cheerios for a better university 
My dear friends in Notre Dame, 
The time has come. The Cereal Survey is upon us. But before we all carefully consider our cereal options and submit our surveys, I would like to tell you a tale. 
For as long as I can remember, I have eaten Cheerios for breakfast every day. Now I understand that Cheerios, to most, seem very plain, but therein lies their greatest value. Cheerios provide the perfect base on which to mix many of the sweeter cereals that taste so good, but push you towards diabetes if you eat an entire bowl. So imagine my joy when I arrived at Notre Dame as a nervous, wide-eyed freshman and saw the two giant walls of cereal in North Dining Hall. All of those cereals, just waiting to be mixed with Cheerios! I tried a different mix every day. Sometimes I would combine four cereals in one bowl. At the end of my junior year, when I went abroad to Ireland, one of my greatest concerns was how I would get my Cheerios. But, providentially, the Irish eat Cheerios too (in the multi-grain form). 
I returned to campus for my senior year, extremely excited to be back and to taste once again my master mixes of cereal in North Dining Hall. But, after one week, my beloved Cheerios disappeared, never to return. I was horrified. My senior year, and they take away my Cheerios! Since then, my Dining Hall cereal has not been the same. 
So as you sit in the dining hall today, marking off your choices on the cereal survey, I give you this warning. In your excitement about all of the fruity, chocolaty, and sugary cereals, do not neglect to vote for your basics. Our dining hall is not complete without Cheerios. I will be moving on from this university before this wrong is remedied, but for your own good, my friends, for the good of all at this university, I ask you: vote for Cheerios. 
Marita Neidecker 
senior Pasquerilla East Hall Mar. 21 





EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene
page 12 Tuesday, March 22, 2011 

The “Dove Campaign for Real Beauty” launched in 2004. Using TV advertise­ments, billboards and short films, the cam­paign strove to celebrate the natural and unique bodies of women, emphasizing the beauty of all shapes and sizes, not just those of models. 
The “It Gets Better Project” launched in 2010. This online video website aims to help prevent LGBT teen sui­cide in the wake of increased sui­cides of gay bul­lied teens. 

And now, it seems, the female pop star industry has launched its own self-esteem improvement campaign. Although unti-tioning the cutting-edge qualities of Lady Gaga. Despite being quite an individual herself, she can’t even muster up her own sound and style to promote uniqueness and self-pride. I do not doubt that Lady Gaga is a talented musician or question that this is a good song. Rather, I wonder about her motives behind this song and the effectiveness of her message. 

Katy Perry and Ke$ha also fall victim to this mixed message. The pop divas recently released their self-esteem singles, “Firework” and “We R Who We R,” respec­tively, achieving billboard success and inspiring young people. And yet, both of their careers follow in the footsteps of Lady Gaga and her “shock and awe” path to fame, Ke$ha only diverging in her amount of actual musical talent. 
From blue hair to face-altering eye makeup, these starlets have realized the star potential in shocking music and style. 
Though they are unable to 

tled and possibly unorgan-
achieve the jaw-dropping lev­ized — it was just award els of Lady Gaga, they still fol-show season, they had low in her footsteps. And so, other things on their their call to embrace your mind — this campaign individual personality falls hopes to help listeners flat since they apparently feel good about them-struggle with their own selves and their unique advice. When Katy Perry personalities. Stars like embraces the firework Pink, Katy Perry, Ke$ha inside herself, I’ll follow and Lady Gaga want to suit. celebrate individuality Pink gets the gold star in and being true to yourself this effort, releasing the 
— important qualities first of these self-esteem which often fall by the pop singles, “Raise Your wayside in today’s highly Glass,” followed by commercialized society. “F**kin’ Perfect,” which 
Their efforts, however, hit the No. 1 spot on the ring hollow when their American Top 40 charts attempts to imbue down-this week. These are not her 
trodden, self-conscious teens 

and listeners with pride in their individuali­
ty are commercialized and conformist, 
either in their songs or in their personality. 
I applaud the efforts of these leading 
ladies in pop music to promote self-aware­
ness and boost self-esteem. There’s a 
growing trend of young people of all ages 
trying to fit a certain norm and dress code. 
And if they fail or fall short of society’s 
expectations, they can suffer a harsh blow 
to their self-identity and self-confidence, 
which is often difficult to overcome. We do 
need to celebrate the individual beauty and 
worth of every human being. 

But I can’t really take Lady Gaga’s new 
single, “Born This Way,” seriously as an 
individuality anthem when the only thing 
that pops into my mind while listening to it 
is Madonna. Lady Gaga has made a career 
of being different and shocking. From her 
meat dress to her slightly risqué videos, 
she never fails to surprise her fans. Her 
songs have also often bucked the trend of 
typical pop music, which helps make them 
unique and worth listening to, even when 
radio stations overplay them. 

This newest single, though, has me ques-
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
only message-laden songs; she has also sought to inspire in previous singles “Sober” and “Stupid Girls.” She actually seems to not only talk the talk, but also walk the walk with her music and lifestyle. Her face is rarely plastered across tabloids for the ridiculous stunts she has recently pulled or the crazy outfits the paparazzi have shot her in. 
So I applaud the efforts of these pop stars as they try to promote increased self-confi­dence and self-esteem — and I’ll probably still dance to their songs at Feve — but I hesitate to use them as examples and role models in my life. Unilever, the company that owns Dove, also received criticism with their beauty campaign when they continued to use overtly sexualized women in the AXE brand advertisements. The real message, apparently, that should be broad­cast across America is the evils of hypocrisy. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Grammy nominated Johnny Winter will mosey onto Club Fever’s stage Saturday, stringing and singing Texas blues tunes for his South Bend fans. 
The Club Fever performance will come in the midst of a world tour that includes stops in Germany, France and Japan. Fellow bandmates drummer Vito Liuzzi, guitarist Paul Nelson and bassist Scott Spray will accompa­ny Winter. 
Winter has released dozens of albums over the past 50 years including what he calls “non-offi­cial” compilations of early singles he recorded as a teenager. Praise for Winter, who was ranked no. 74 on Rolling Stones’ 2003 list of “100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time,” continues to pile up. Two of the albums Winter produced for blues band Muddy Waters won Grammy Awards and recent­ly Winter and his brother were inducted into the Southeast Texas “Walk of Fame” in his hometown. 
Winter’s love for music began at an early age. During his child­hood in Beaumont, Texas, Winter, 67, experimented with the clar­inet, ukulele and guitar and per­formed with his brother Edgar on the piano. Winter formed his first band, Johnny and the Jammers, at 14 and released the blues album “The Progressive Blues Experiment” in 1968. 
The Texas guitar tradition runs deep in Winter’s music, Winter’s website JohnnyWinter.net said. 
“From T-Bone Walker and Clarence Gatemouth Brown on through Albert Collins and Freddie King, Billy Gibbons and the late Stevie Ray Vaughan, the tradition of the Texas guitar slinger has lived on. The one name that ranks at the top of that exclusive list is Johnny Winter, an international ambassador for rocking Texas blues and still going strong,” JohnnyWinter.net said. 
Rockabilly band The Blasters will accompany Winter at Club Fever. Band members Phil Alvin, John Bazz, Bill Bateman and Keith Wyatt’s mix of blues and rockabilly will bring what they call “American Music” front and center Saturday. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


They include: 
-
a wristband for entry to the party which starts at 6PM, before the Johnny Winter show 

-
a food buffet 


-music. Proceeds for the Vegetable Buddies Reunion Party will be donated to South Bend Center for The Homeless. 




Around the Bend 

What: Johnny Winter and The Blasters Where: Club Fever, 222 S Michigan St. When:Saturday, March 26, 7 
p.m. (Doors open at 6 p.m.) How much: $35, $50 
The Observer 


Scene
Tuesday, March 22, 2011 page 13 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Sofia Vivoni Spotted: Lewis Hall 

Sofia just came back from a tropical spring break and she is showing off her incredible tan with this stylish outfit. Her relaxed, white tunic paired with dark skinny jeans and gray ballerina flats is perfect for spring weather. Her mix of red and gray bangles definitely completes the look. Sofia looks chic and relaxed after a great week of vacation. 
All this would of yellow, green and blue 
Samantha Osborn 

course be accompa-top, pair it with a solid
models brights. 

nied by a deafening color pant or skirt in crash. This would always be fol-navy. Relate independent colors lowed by my over-attentive land-with visual ‘tocchi’ or touches. lady bursting into my room That is, if the bedazzled shoulders screaming very loudly in a torrent of your jacket are emerald green, of French to make sure I had not wear a complementary green been knocked unconscious or shoe or purse. strangled by a hanger 

Think of yourself as or other flying accesso­
an abstract painting: ry. 
often the key to its As you can imagine, 
beauty is its comple­when this happened, 
mentary colors unified the disruption to my 
by one base color, such daily pre-class “café au 
as black or white. You lait et pain au chocolat” 
can start your journey ritual caused me no end 
onto the proverbial of distress. After many 
‘color brick road’ by bruises, two ripped out-taking advantage of 
Thakoon colorblock 

fits, and one sprained high-end designer 
dress, Target.com, 

ankle, I realized I had to Thakoon’s colorblock 
$39.99. 

stage an intervention. dress at Target for 
As I weeded out my $39.99. Watch out closet one night with my friends, Jackson Pollack, new artists are Wine and Brie, I realized I could in town. actually create more fashion ensembles with fewer pieces. The The views expressed in this key to smarter fashion strategy, column are those of the author and apparently surviving my and not necessarily those of The room, was color combination. Observer. 
Just as Mediterranean women Contact Felicia Caponigri at of the Amalfi coast and the trend-fcaponig@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 22, 2011 
NFL 



NFL files lawsuit to keep lockout in place 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — The NFL asked a federal judge Monday to keep its lockout in place, saying there are no legal grounds to stop it while accusing the play­ers of trying to manipulate the law with a bogus antitrust law­suit. 
The NFL filed its arguments in federal court in St. Paul, Minn., where U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson has scheduled an April 6 hearing on the play­ers’ bid to stop the lockout. 
The NFL said any decision on a lockout should wait until the National Labor Relations Board rules on an unfair labor practice charge against the now-dis­solved players’ union that con­tends the players failed to nego­tiate in good faith. The charge, filed Feb. 14, was amended on March 11 to include reference to the union’s decertification. 
The NLRB said the case is still under investigation and had no further comment. 
The legal salvo is just the lat­est in the fight between the league and players, who failed to forge a new collective bar­gaining agreement on March 11. That same day, Tom Brady, Drew Brees, Peyton Manning and six other current NFL play­ers filed the antitrust suit and injunction request in federal court here, and the NFL owners locked out the players, putting the 2011 season in jeopardy. 
The NFL made three main points in Monday’s filing. It said the injunction issue shouldn’t be in federal court at all, the decer­tification of the union was a sham and the players’ claim of “irreparable harm” has no merit. 
Stopping the lockout, the NFL argued, would open all 32 teams up to additional antitrust claims even for working together to solve the labor fight. Antitrust claims carry triple damages for any harm proven, meaning hun­dreds of millions of dollars are at stake. 
In arguing that Congress has barred judges from halting lock­outs, the league cited the Norris-LaGuardia Act — Depression-era legislation passed with the intent of limit­ing employers’ ability to crack down on unions, including their ability to seek court orders halt­ing strikes. The NFL contends the law also protects an employ­er’s right to impose a lockout in a labor dispute. 
The league said the NFLPA dissolved eight hours before the labor agreement expired simply to avoid a six-month delay in fil­ing its multimillion-dollar antitrust lawsuit — a delay spelled out in the CBA. 
Decertification, the league says, proved the players did not want to negotiate in good faith and is a step used whenever it serves the union’s purposes at the bargaining table. 
The 57-page court filing includes statements from the players themselves that the league says backs its argument. 
“We decertified so that we could fight them from locking us out and go back to work,” Jeff Saturday, the NFLPA vice presi­dent, said the day after the March 11 decertification, according to the court filing. “And we feel like ... we can still negotiate this anytime you want.” 
According to the filing, NFLPA president Kevin Mawae said in a Sept. 29 interview that decertifi­cation was an “ace in our sleeve” that worked in the late 1980s in favor of the players. 
“It’s been a part of the union strategy since I’ve been in the league,” Mawae said. 
The league also cited com­ments from Baltimore Ravens receiver Derrick Mason nine days before the union was dis­solved. 
“So are we a union? Per se, no. But we’re still going to act as if we are one,” Mason, an NFLPA player representative, said on March 2, according to the court filing. 
The NFLPA did not respond specifically to Monday’s filing, but spokesman George Atallah said: “The NFL’s actions don’t match their words. They say they want a fair deal, but instead they locked out the play­ers and now are trying to pre­serve that lockout through liti­gation.” 
The league, meanwhile, accused the union of an illegal “heads I win, tails you lose” strategy, claiming the players want the NFL subject to antitrust claims “if it ceases or refuses to continue football operations” yet also “subject to antitrust liability if it does not” in a “flip of a switch” approach. 
The players’ antitrust suit — forever to be known as Brady et al vs. National Football League et al — attacked the league’s policies on rookie salaries and free-agent restrictions such as franchise-player tags. 
Peter Ruocco, the NFL’s senior vice president of labor relations, wrote rebuttals to those con­tentions as part of Monday’s court filing. 
He argued that franchise tags are lucrative options for players, noting that Manning signed a multiyear contract worth nearly $100 million after being desig­nated a franchise player in 2004. 
As for the league-wide limit on rookie salaries, in which teams are permitted a certain pool to spend on players they draft, Ruocco noted that rookies last season, as a whole, signed con­tracts totaling $658.9 million in guarantees. 
Ruocco also wrote that miss­ing offseason workouts does not do “irreparable harm” to play-ers, as they allege of the lock­out. He noted that players work out on their own regardless. 

NFL players would “undoubt­edly argue” that free agency should begin promptly if the lockout were to be lifted, Ruocco added. That, he said, would cre­ate “considerable uncertainty” about the rights and abilities of teams wishing to re-sign their players and have a “detrimental effect” on the league’s competi­tive balance. 
That scenario would be “diffi­cult, if not impossible, to unscramble the egg and return those players” to their original teams if the NFL were to win this case. 
MLB 


Phillies sign ex-Met Castillo to minor league contract 
play second base,” Amaro said time, he’s starting to get a little lion contract. $414,000 if he’s added to the 

Associated Press 

before Monday’s game against better,” Phillies manager Charlie “I think a change will be good roster. 
CLEARWATER, Fla. — The the Boston Red Sox. “We’ll Manuel said. “It’s not coming for him, I respect him as a play-“He’ll come in, we’ll look at Philadelphia Phillies signed assess it, see if he’s going to be real fast, but he’s showing, er,” said Phillies catcher Brian him and see what he’s got, see if three-time All-Star second base-able to help us. If he can, great. according to the doctors and Schneider, who played with he can help us,” Philadelphia man Luis Castillo to a minor If he can’t we’ll probably go trainers, he’s starting to get bet-Castillo in New York. “He’s been manager Charlie Manuel said. league contract on Monday. with what we’ve got in camp.” ter. Seems like it’s going to take in the game a long time and he’s Castillo had not reported to 
Castillo will report to camp as “He’s not going to go to the a while though.” done a lot of great things. I camp by the time the Phillies a non-roster player and com-minor leagues,” Amaro added. Castillo is a career .290 hitter think this is a good opportunity clubhouse closed following the pete for playing time while five-“He’s either going to make our in 15 seasons with the New York for him with what’s going on team’s 4-1 win over the Boston time All-Star Chase Utley recov-club or be released.” Mets, Minnesota Twins and here.” Red Sox. ers from a right knee injury. Utley hasn’t played in any of Florida Marlins. He hit .235 with Castillo is in the final season The Phillies have five players 
Philadelphia general manager the Phillies exhibition games Mets in 2010, but was limited to of a four-year, $25 million con-in camp who have played sec-Ruben Amaro Jr. said bringing this spring. He has been diag-just 86 games because of a right tract. The Mets are responsible ond base this spring: super utili­in Castillo amounts to a 10-day nosed with knee revealed ten-heel injury. for most of the $6 million ty reserve Wilson Valdez, Rule 5 tryout before the seasons begins dinitis, chondromalacia and Castillo was released Friday remaining on the deal, with the pick Michael Martinez and non-on April 1. bone inflammation. by the Mets. He is in the final Phillies having to pay Castillo roster players Josh Barfield, 
“We’re going to see if he can “He’s getting a little better in season of a four-year, $25 mil-the major-league minimum of Delwyn Young and Pete Orr. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Phil: Wow, this place has really  
FOR SALE  PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  WANTED  We are looking for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and children of  changed. Time marches on, huh? See that Starbucks down there, you  
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  Notre Dame faculty &amp; staff to  know what that used to be?  
17702 Douglas Rd South Bend  many resources in place to assist  assist us Reunion Weekend in wel­ 
you.  Earn Extra Money  coming our returning alumni to  Luke: An orange grove?  
Newly Renovated 3 Bed/2 Full Bath  If you or someone you care about  campus June 2-5, 2011.  
has been sexually assaulted, we  If you or someone you love needs  Students needed ASAP.  Phil: No, a Burger King. You can  
2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek  can help.  confidential support or assistance,  To view reunion postings visit the  still see some of the architecture.  
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Earn up to $150 per day being a  Notre Dame employment website at  
Lots of Parking Walk to Campus  Mystery Shopper.  jobs.nd.edu.  ———————————————  
For more information, visit Notre  For more information, visit ND's  
50+ Photos on web  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  website at: http://pregnancysup- No Experience Required. Call 1­ Type in REUNION as the keyword  Happy birthday to the last-place  
port@nd.edu  888-534-5008  to search postings.  Casey Morris.  
17702douglas.com 574-876-8596  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 


Howard’s 28 points lift Magic past Cleveland 
Van Gundy displeased with Cleveland’s fourth quarter comeback; Pacers’ win improves playoff chances 
games. Their feud figured to 

Associated Press 
continue, but it dissolved the 

CLEVELAND — Hard as he moment LeBron James left tried, Stan Van Gundy just Cleveland. couldn’t bring himself to enjoy Fierce rivals just a year ago, Orlando’s win. Orlando and Cleveland are now 
The hard-to-please Magic on opposite ends of the NBA coach was in one of those foul spectrum. moods. “It is different now,” Howard 
Van Grumpy. said. “It’s weird.” 
Dwight Howard scored 28 J.J. Hickson scored 18 and points with 18 rebounds and he Daniel Gibson 16 for the Cavs, and Brandon Bass were way who have dropped three too much for Cleveland’s small-straight and nine of 11. ish frontline to handle as the Bass added 22 points for Magic rolled to a 97-86 win Orlando, and combined with Monday night over the Howard to go 18 of 21 from the Cavaliers, whose fourth-quar-floor against a Cavs team lack­ter comeback irritated Van ing a legitimate inside game. Gundy. Howard added four assists, 
Standing in the hallway out-four blocks, four steals and the side Orlando’s locker room, Van All-Star center went a shocking Gundy was asked what he took 10 of 12 from the free throw from the win. His answers were line. He’s made only 58 percent terse. of his foul shots this season. 
“Nothing,” he said. “We got a Following the game, Howard win and that’s what we take handed fans his sneakers and from it. We got a win, and arm sleeves and tossed his jer­we’re moving on. This one is sey into the crowd. done.” “He’s a great player,” Cavs 
With the Cavs unable to stop coach Byron Scott said. “His Howard near the basket, the flaw is obviously from the line Magic built a 15-point lead in but he is athletic, strong, big the first quarter and were up and fast. He’s dominant.” by 26 late in the third. When Howard went out with However, Cleveland fought back 1:49 left in the third, the Magic and closed within 92-83 before were up by 22 and even Van Hedo Turkoglu’s 3-pointer with Gundy seemed somewhat 
2:56 left put Orlando back in pleased. Howard slapped hands control. with Orlando’s assistant coach-
The Magic won their third es and it appeared his night straight and pulled within 3 1/2 was over early. But Bass picked games of Miami for the No. 3 up his fifth personal and Van Anderson were a combined 17 just hard to move him out,” It didn’t look that way for the playoff spot in the Eastern Gundy had to put Howard back of 20 with 42 points, 19 Hickson said. “With his size and opening 21 minutes, and cer-Conference. in. rebounds and eight dunks. athleticism, it’s tough.” tainly not at the end when the 
That was of little value to Van The Cavs began knocking Scott wanted his big men to Nets missed two 3-pointers in Gundy, who was upset with his down shots and made it inter-be physical with Howard, and Pacers 102, Nets 98 the final 15 seconds that would team’s 20 turnovers and inabil-esting in the fourth. They on Orlando’s first possession, The Indiana Pacers are clos-have tied the game. ity to put Cleveland away. closed within nine on Christian Samardo Samuels locked up ing in on the postseason, even “We didn’t want to let this 
“You only play 82 games a Eyenga’s 3-pointer. But the Magic’s All-Star center with if it appears they are crawling one slip away,” said Pacers year,” Van Gundy said. “It Turkoglu ended the comeback a bear hug in the middle of the at times. center Roy Hibbert, who had a shouldn’t be hard to go out and bid with his 3 from deep in the lane. Samuels got away with it Despite scoring 15 first-quar-game-high 24 points on 10-of­play hard and well all the time. left corner. as Howard was called for 3 sec-ter points, turning the ball over 14 shooting from the field. “We We’ve seen ebbs and flows, but While Van Gundy was unhap-onds. 18 times in the game and near-had some mishaps toward the I don’t have an excuse for it. py, Howard believes the Magic Howard then had his way. ly blowing a late 11-point lead, end of the game, but Darren We turned the ball over too are in a good place. He drew five personal fouls — the Pacers opened a two-game (Collison) hit some big free much and we didn’t play with a “We’re a team that’s headed two on Ryan Hollins and one lead in the race for the final throws and we came through lot of energy.” toward making a great playoff apiece on Samuels, Hickson playoff berth in the Eastern with the win.” 
The Magic swept all four run,” Howard said. “We have and Luke Harongody — in the Conference with a 102-98 victo-Collison, who had a game-games against the Cavaliers, all the talent. We’ve got a great first quarter alone as Cleveland ry over the New Jersey Nets on high 12 assists, scored nine of winning the season series for team. We have to bring it every was forced to hack away at him Monday. his 15 points in the final 2:24 to the first time since 2002-03. night.” or get dunked on. Howard fin-“It’s a huge win for our ball-protect a lead that Danny The teams met each other in At halftime, the Magic led by ished the period with 12 points club,” Pacers interim coach Granger helped build by scor­the playoffs in 2009, a tight 18 and were on cruise control. and nine rebounds. Frank Vogel said. “That’s what ing 17 of his 20 in the second series Orlando won in six Howard, Bass and Ryan “Once he sits in the paint, it’s we’re all working hard for.” half. 

“It’s very important,” said Granger, who missed his first seven shots from the field. “Road wins are very hard to come by in the NBA. To get one is great for us. We started off slow and we knew we needed this game.” 
The win gave Indiana a 31-40 record. Charlotte (28-41) and Milwaukee (28-41) are tied for ninth, with the Bobcats playing host to Indiana on Wednesday. The Pacers are 3-0 against Charlotte this season. 
“It’s huge,” Vogel said. “We’ve got a chance to really put them at a disadvantage. ... It would be like a four-game lead with only 10 to go. It’s a great opportunity for us.” 
The other good piece of news for the Pacers is that they play seven of their final 11 games at home. 
Brook Lopez had 20 points to lead the Nets, who saw Sundiata Gaines and Sasha Vujacic miss tying 3-point attempts in the final 15 sec­onds. 
Gaines finished with a career-high 18 points, while Vujacic and Jordan Farmar had 14 apiece for New Jersey, which lost its fourth in the row. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 2011 



Thomas’ 16 in second half spark Hurricanes 
Sixth-year senior lifts Miami to quarterfinals; Releford, Mitchell lead Crimson Tide past New Mexico 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. — Adrian Thomas was staring at the end of his Miami career — and not quite ready to say goodbye. 
Thomas, a sixth-year senior scored all 16 of his points in the second half to lead Miami to an 81 -72 win against Missouri State on Monday night in the second round of the NIT. 
Second-seeded Miami (21­
14) will play at Alabama on Wednesday with a trip to New York for the NIT semifinals on the line. 
“I just wanted to win the game,” Thomas said. “I don’t want this season to end, because once it’s over, it’s offi­cial for me.” 
Thomas said he focused on “staying calm” as Miami went into halftime trailing 32-26. 
Thomas scored 14 points ­including four 3-pointers -in the first 4:15 of the second half. 
“A.T. was the reason we made that turnaround in the second half,” said point guard Durand Scott, who led the Canes with 20 points. “We just came out aggressive and stayed together on the defen­sive side. And we let A.T. go to work on the offensive side.” 
Added Thomas: “Once the first one went in, I just kept shooting.” 
Hurricanes coach Frank Haith said Thomas helped revive his team, whose 21 wins this season are eighth-most in program history. 
“(Th omas) gave us a spark,” Haith sure. We got it back, but we dug ourselves too big a hole.” 
Alabama 74, New Mexico 67 
Trevor Releford’s speedy drives, Tony Mitchell’s high-flying dunks and an effective dose of full-court pressure kept Alabama alive in the National Invitation Tournament. 
Mitchell scored 23 points and Releford matched his career-high with 20 to lead the Crimson Tide to a 74-67 win over New Mexico Monday night in the second round of the NIT. 
The Tide (23 -11), mostly known for its defense, made 15 of 20 shots in the second half to move into the quarter­finals. Alabama will host Miami on Wednesday night, aiming for its sixth trip to the NIT final four at Madison Square Garden. 
“I think our guys are excited to still have an opportunity to continue to play and continue to try to play for a champi­onship,” Tide coach Anthony Grant said. 
Kendall Williams led New Mexico (22-13) with 18 points, including a couple of 3-point­ers in the final 35 seconds to cut it to a six-point deficit. 
Then Charvez Davis hit one of two free throws with 24 seconds left to make it a three-possession game and the Lobos missed their 3-point attempt, anyway. 
Davis finished with 14 points and hit half of Alabama’s six 3-pointers. 
Mitchell was 8-of-11 shoot­
ing while 
Releford, a 
freshman point 

s ai d . “ I n the f i r st h alf , we were stagnant.  “I just wanted to win the game. I don’t want  g ua r d , adde d s i x r e b o un d s and six assists  
T hey were s wi t c hin g o n ba l l s c re e ns, and we did not  this season to end, because once it’s over, it’s offcial for me.”  and frequently drove the lane. “ Tr ev or all year has done  
h av e  g o od  an  outstanding  
movement.” M i s s o u r i S t ate (26-9 )  Adrian Thomas Miami forward  job not neces­sarily in scor­ing but in get- 
n e v e r  f ull y  ting other guys  
recovered from  shots, doing  a  
T ho ma s ’  r un,  g r e at  j o b  

but managed to cut the deficit defensively,” Grant said. to 78-72 with 47.1 seconds “That’s what you want to see left. out of your basketball team, 
The Bears fouled Scott, who that when the opportunity made one of two free throws. presents itself different guys Miami then sealed the game step up. I think that’s the with a steal and two free mark of a good team.” throws by Rion Brown with Leading scorer JaMychal 
28.4 seconds remaining. Green didn’t score for the first 
Malcolm Grant had 10 31 minutes and finished with points for Miami, and Reggie six points and seven rebounds. Johnson who had nine points He played only 20 minutes and nine rebounds. because of foul trouble. 
Brown, who Haith said was Phillip McDonald had 12 suffering from strep throat, points and Drew Gordon had seven points, all late. added 11 for New Mexico. 
Missouri State was led by Williams, who became the guard Adam Leonard, who sixth freshman in the was 7 for 8 from 3-point Mountain West Conference to range and finished with 26 score 400 points, and points. McDonald were each 4 of 9 
Kyle Weems, the Missouri from 3-point range. Gordon Valley Conference Player of only had four rebounds, near-the Year, shot 6 of 17 and was ly seven fewer than his season held to 18 points. average. 
Miami, which did not shoot a Alabama improved to 18-0 free throw in the first half, at Coleman Coliseum this sea-made 21 of 24 after the break. son despite trailing at home in The Canes also scored 55 11 of those, including a six-points in the second half. point deficit in the first half of 
“Disaster,” is how Weems this one. termed his team’s start to the “It’s one of the better defen­second half. sive teams that we’ve played 
“(Thomas) got hot. He hit all season long,” New Mexico some shots with hands in his coach Steve Alford said. “They face, and we lost our compo-mix up their pressures, they back off, they come at you. They just do a really good job of keeping you off balance.” 

New Mexico, playing without injured guard Dairese Gary, was down only two points early in the second half before Alabama went on a 17-5 run led by a couple of highlight-reel dunks by Mitchell. 
The first came on a long alley-oop pass from Senario Hillman and then he streaked to the basket to slam home a missed 3. He added a windmill dunk off a fast-break in the final minutes, but missed three of four late free throws to help New Mexico cut into a deficit that grew to 18 points in the final four minutes. 
“We’re not going to feel like we’re out of it,” Williams said. “Obviously being down (18) points doesn’t help that confi­dence, but we’ve fought all year. If we did a better job of handling the press and keep­ing them out of transition we wouldn’t have been in that position. But we were, and I think we did a good job of fighting out of it.” 
The Lobos had also man­aged to briefly cut the lead back to single digits earlier on a 3 by Williams with 7:34 left, but the Tide scored the next nine points on three drives and a 3-pointer by Davis to seemingly put the game away. 
Alabama, which used the full-court press effectively at times, forced three straight turnovers to start the run. 
“They’re hitting shots on top of it,” Williams said. “It all kind of spawned from turnovers and it gave them confidence to hit outside jumpers.” 
Alabama made only 11 of 23 free throws in the second half to help New Mexico hang in. 
Releford had scored the final five points of the first half to give Alabama a 30-26 lead. He hit a jumper to put the Tide ahead and added a contested 3-pointer with 11 seconds left and the shot clock dwindling down. 
“That happens with an inex­perienced group,” Alford said. “I think you really felt the effects of our first road game without Dairese. I think you really saw that at the end of the first half.” 


Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



Panel weighs nuclear safety 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — State lawmakers called on California utilities Monday to delay efforts to relicense nuclear power plants until the companies complete detailed seismic maps to get a true pic­ture of the risks posed by earthquakes and tsunamis. 
State senators raised sharp questions about whether California’s nuclear plants can withstand a major natural dis­aster such as the one on March 11 that has left Japan scrambling to control radia­tion coming from some of its reactors. 
Lawmakers also questioned whether the utilities have been dragging their feet on conducting three-dimensional seismic studies called for in a 2008 state report to assess the risks posed by offshore faults. 
Pacific Gas and Electric Co. has applied to renew its license to operate the two reactors at Diablo Canyon Power Plant near San Luis Obispo, which expire in 2024 and 2025. 
“I would ask sincerely that PG&E suspend or withdraw that application” until the additional seismic mapping is completed, said Sen. Sam Blakeslee, R-San Luis Obispo, a geophysicist who has been a frequent critic of Diablo Canyon. He said he would pursue legislation to thwart the utility until the mapping is done. 
Blakeslee in 2009 intro­duced a bill that would have required the utility to meet that and other requirements; it won unanimous support in the Legislature but then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed it. 
Lloyd Cluff, a seismic expert for PG&E, said work started in October for shallow mapping and the utility will apply in April for a permit for deep mapping down to 10 kilome­ters below the surface. 
“We’re doing it as we speak,” Cluff said. 
Edison has applied to the Public Utilities Commission for permission to charge ratepay­ers an estimated $21.6 million for similar studies at the San Onofre plant north of San Diego along the Southern California coast, said Caroline McAndrews, director of licensing at the plant. 
The license for San Onofre expires in 2022 and Edison has not yet applied to renew it. 
California gets a total of about 12 percent of its power from the Diablo Canyon and San Onofre nuclear plants. 
Outside the hearing room, Daniel Hirsch, a lecturer in nuclear policy at University of California, Santa Cruz, noted California’s reactors are in one of the most seismically active areas of the world after Japan. “What’s going on in Japan could happen here,” he said. 
Japan’s plants were not designed to handle the ground movement or wave heights they were subjected to this month, said Steve David, director of site services at Diablo Canyon. 
Diablo Canyon and San Onofre have been designed to survive much larger forces, utility representatives testi­fied. 
“We’ve gone back this week and verified that (safety) equipment is in place and that the operators have been trained,” David said. 
The senators are reviewing whether California’s nuclear power plants and natural gas pipelines are safe from earth­quakes, as Japan’s crisis rais­es uncomfortable comparisons to the nuclear plants on the 
U.S. West Coast. 
“Japan has always been a leader in preparedness,” said Sen. Ellen Corbett, a San Leandro Democrat who chairs the Senate Select Committee on Earthquake and Disaster Preparedness, Response and Recovery 
“It’s time to revisit the safety of these plants in light of what we have learned from Japan,.” Corbett said. 
The utilities contend the plants have been designed and located to protect them from the most serious natural threats considered possible at the sites. 
For example, Diablo Canyon is anchored in bedrock and has safety systems and emer­gency reservoirs located at 80 feet or more above sea level. San Onofre is protected by a 30-foot seawall. 


Judge orders Loughner toundergomentalexam 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — An Arizona judge on Monday ordered the suspect in the January shooting rampage in Tucson to undergo a mental evaluation at a specialized facili­ty in Missouri as soon as possi­ble. 
The evaluation will be video­taped and provided to prosecu­tors and defense attorneys, U.S. District Judge Larry Burns said in his late Monday ruling. The judge also ordered that the exam be conducted no later than April 29, and that findings be reported to the court and attorneys on both sides by May 11. 
Prosecutors had argued that Jared Lee Loughner’s exam should be conducted at a so-called medical referral center that provides forensic services and has increased resources, and recommended the federal Bureau of Prisons facility in Springfield, Mo. 
Medical referral centers use psychiatrists employed by the bureau. 
Loughner’s lawyers have said the exam should be done by an outside expert, not by a Bureau of Prisons employee, at a Tucson prison. They also wanted assur­ances that the evaluation doesn’t expand into a review of their client’s sanity. 
Lead defense attorney Judy Clark wrote in a court filing last week that moving Loughner would harm the defense team’s efforts to develop an attorney-client relationship. The defense also was concerned that Loughner is “seriously ill,” and that moving him to Missouri could worsen his state. 
Loughner, 22, has pleaded not guilty to charges stemming from the Jan. 8 attack that killed six and wounded 13, including Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. She remains at a rehabilitation center in Houston as she recovers from a bullet wound to the brain. 
Burns agreed that the Springfield facility is the best place for the exam, and ordered that the scope of the exam should be limited to whether Loughner is competent to stand trial, not whether he was sane at the time of the shooting. 
“The question at issue is whether the defendant is presently suffering from a mental disease or defect rendering him mentally incompetent to the extent that he is unable to under­stand the nature and conse­quences of the proceedings against him, or to assist properly in his defense,” Burns wrote. 
Burns cited a memo written by Dr. Donald Lewis, chief of psychi­atry for the Bureau of Prisons. He wrote that the Springfield facility is best for Loughner’s exam because it “has medical staff available for neurology and other organic testing, and has far more forensic staff and full-time psychiatrists available to provide round-the-clock assistance.” 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish take third at Invitational 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish attempted to bounce back from a disappointing showing at the Central District Invitational by winning the two-day Dr. Donnis Thompson Invitational March 15 in Kaneohe, Hawaii, and after two impressive rounds Notre Dame trailed Arizona State by just five strokes. But 

“Our third-place fnish
victory slipped out of their wasn’t our strongest, grasp after a 
but we still beat one 
shaky third 

ranked team ahead of
round, forcing 

the Irish to set-us – Vanderbilt.” tle for third place. 
Kristina Nhim
“Our finish at 

Irish freshman
Hawaii was extremely dis­appointing, ” freshman Kristina Nhim said. “We were within reach of win­ning, and our average scores on the last day of play are usually our lowest.” 
The Irish, who were ranked 21st and are now 25th, con­cluded the two-day tournament at the Kaneohe Klipper Golf Course with a final tally of 904, 40-over-par. The team finished behind first-place Arizona State, which finished 23-over­par, and runner-up University of Arizona, which finished 38­over-par. 
Although the squad said they were disappointed by the last round slip-up, there were encouraging aspects of their performance. They finished ahead of 15 teams, including fourth-place University of Nevada, Las Vegas, fifth-place Nevada and sixth-place Vanderbilt. 
“Our third-place finish wasn't 
our strongest, but we still beat one ranked team ahead of us — Vanderb ilt, ” Nhim said. 
The Irish were led by senior So-Hyun Park, who shot a nine-over-par 225 over 54 holes. She tied for seventh 
place individually after carding rounds of 74, 72 and 79. 
Park finished with nine more strokes than first-place finisher junior Carlota Ciganda of Arizona State, who shot one­under-par over three rounds and led the field for the entire tournament. 
Nhim, whose rounds of 77, 72 and 78 for a total score of 227 were good enough for a tie for 11th place, followed Park. Despite her impressive 72­stroke second round, Nhim was dissatisfied with her final day of play. 
“Personally, I know that I did not play well the last day, and I know I have to work on more consistency with my game,” Nhim said. 
Freshman Nicole Zhang, the No. 19 ranked women’s college golfer, was just a shot behind Nhim after rounds of 72, 75 and 81, and finished tied for 14th place. Junior Becca Huffer and senior captain Katie Conway finished in ties for 17th and 37th place respectively, with final tallies of 229 and 234. 
The Irish are currently in the lead after two rounds at the John Kirk/Panther Intercollegiate at the Eagle's Landing Country Club in Stockbridge, Ga. Notre Dame has recorded a 15-over-par 591 strokes, and leads second-place James Madison by two strokes. 
Huffer is the current leader with a three-under 141 after 36 holes. No one else in the field is under par after two rounds. 
Huffer is followed by Conway, who is tied for sixth place with a score of 147 after a first round 72 and a second round 75. 
The third and final round of the John Kirk/Panther Intercollegiate will begin Tuesday at 9 a.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen vjacobse@nd.edu 
NHL 
Pengiuins hold on to win in shootout 
Associated Press 
DETROIT – The Pittsburgh Penguins passed their first test after another setback. 
James Neal scored the only goal in the shootout, giving Pittsburgh a 5-4 victory over the Detroit Red Wings after blowing a four-goal lead on Monday night. 
“We let it slip away a bit and no one likes to see that,” Neal said. “But when you come back and win in the shootout, it’s a great feeling.” 
The win picked up a team that was knocked down a couple hours before the game. 
Penguins forward Matt Cooke was suspended by the NHL for the rest of the regu­lar season and the first round of the playoffs for an elbow to the head of New York Rangers defenseman Ryan McDonagh during a 5-2 home loss on Sunday. 
“It’s disappointing,” team­mate Jordan Staal said. “Matt’s a big part of our team. He plays on the edge. He has to find a way to play on the edge but play clean.” 
Pascal Dupuis had two goals and an assist to help Pittsburgh build a big lead. Tyler Kennedy put Pittsburgh ahead 4-0 at 13:16 of the second period, ending goalie Jimmy Howard’s night. Joey MacDonald stopped all 10 shots he faced before the shootout. 
“Howie would like to have the first one back, but I think we hung him out to dry on the other ones,” Detroit coach Mike Babcock said. “Mac didn’t have much work, but he made some good saves for us and gave us two rounds in the shootout with an opportunity.” 
Henrik Zetterberg’s goal ­redirected off a Penguins player -started Detroit’s comeback late in the second period, and Mike Modano tied it midway through the third. 
Brent Johnson stopped 37 shots for the Penguins, who gave Marc-Andre Fleury the night off, and denied Todd Bertuzzi, Modano and Danny Cleary in the shootout. 
Pittsburgh has had to get used to playing without injured stars Sidney Crosby and Evgeni Malkin. Now the Penguins will try to catch the Atlantic Division-leading Philadelphia Flyers for the best record in the Eastern Conference without another key player. 


Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Irish fnish seasons strong 
By JOSEPH MONARDO and 
VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writers 
The Irish finished their seasons at the NCAA championships, the men at the McCorkle Aquatic Pavilion at Ohio State and the women at the University of Texas. 
The men posted strong per­formances in both diving events, which were contested Mar. 10 and 11. From the 3-meter board, senior Eric Lex finished ninth while his classmates Nathan Geary and Wesley Villaflor placed 15th and 18th, respectively. Lex also led the Irish from the 1­meter board with a 12th place finish, while Villaflor finished 14th and Geary placed 19th. For the three Irish seniors, the per­formances at the NCAA Zone Meet signal the end of three great careers. 
“Although we may have come up a little short qualifying for NCAA Nationals I think we all came close to reaching our full potential as divers,” Lex said. “We’re all pretty happy with the way our careers turned out.” 
Despite Lex’s ability to appreci­ate the careers which he and his teammates have enjoyed while at Notre Dame, the 2011 Big East Diver of the Year has a lingering sense of disappointment as he looks back on his final diving meet. 
“On the 1-meter board I was pretty disappointed with [my per­formance],” Lex said. “I didn’t really have the meet that I want­ed. The 3-meter meet, which I ended up ninth in … I was some­what disappointed, but having it be my last meet, I feel like I was fairly pleased with how every­thing went.” 
Lex said making their inability to qualify for the NCAA National Diving Tournament a bit easier to swallow is the knowledge that the Irish divers were up against their hardest competition of the year. 
“The Zone Meets far-and-away 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 
No. 17 Notre Dame goes 2-1 over break 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Last week the No. 17 Irish lost two tough matches to South Florida and Duke before clenching a final victory against Tennessee in Tampa, Fla., bringing their record to 8-6. 
The week began with a difficult matchup against USF, where the Irish lost 6-2. Freshmen doubles pair Jennifer Kellner, Big East player of the week, and Julie Sabacinski secured the first point. Juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews, No. 23, brought their record to 11-3 as they took down No. 42 pair junior Janette Bejikova and freshman Loreto Alonso Martinez. 
The Irish fell short in singles play, with Kellner securing the only point for the Irish and her tenth consecutive singles victory. 
Frilling sat out the singles play against USF and Duke due to a wrist injury. 
“I've had tendonitis in my wrist for the past month,” Frilling said. “It’s been tough trying to work out the best times to rest, and the best times to play in order for it to heal.” 
The Irish fell in all of their sin­gles matches save for Kellner, who defeated No. 76 Bejikova. 
The Irish then faced off against Duke, losing 7-0. Kellner and Mathews played their first match as doubles partners, earning the only doubles point against senior Nadine Fahoum and freshman Hanna Mar. No. 38 Mathews fell in singles to No. 50 Fahoum in three sets. 
To round off the week, the Irish snatched a victory against No. 18 Tennessee. 
Frilling was back in the action against Tennessee, reuniting with Mathews to defeat junior Natalie Pluskota and freshman Millie Nichols, the No. 59 Volunteers duo. Doubles pair sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan and senior Kristen Rafael took the second doubles point against seniors Rosalia Alda and Maria Sorbello. 
“The Tennessee match was especially tough because we just came off two losses and Tennessee is ranked around us, so we knew getting a win there was going to be very important,” Frilling said. 
Frilling easily defeated No. 42 junior Natalie Pluskota in singles. Mathews secured a win as well, overcoming Alda. 
“The most you can do is learn from your matches and work on improving on that,” Frilling said. “All the girls did a great job of doing that.” 
The Irish are back in action Thursday at Georgia Tech. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

have the hardest competition we see all year,” Lex said. “It’s a combination of a lot of the Big Ten schools, who are predomi­nantly known as diving power­houses. It makes you better as a diver, but it’s also kind of intimi­dating, I would say.” 
Purdue’s David Boudia cap­tured victories in both the 1­meter and 3-meter events. 
For the women, senior Samantha Maxwell concluded an impressive career and sopho­more teammate Kim Holden made her championship debut this past Saturday at the NCAA Championship. 
Maxwell came in 17th in the 100-yard breaststroke and 37th in the 200-yard breaststroke. Holden competed in three events, finishing 25th in the 100-yard backstroke, 46th in the 100 fly, and 23rd in the 200-yard back­stroke event. Notre Dame did not earn any points for the team competition, which was won by the University of California-Berkley. 
The trip marked the fourth NCAA appearance and last colle­giate competition for Maxwell, a three-time All-American. She fin­ishes her career with school records in both the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke events and a Big East Conference Swimmer of the Year award, which she earned last season. 
Meanwhile, sophomore Jenny Chiang and senior Heidi Grossman finished the diving sea­son at the NCAA Zone Diving Championships at Ohio State. Chiang came in 12th place in the 3-meter board competition and 14th in the 1-meter board, while Grossman came in 22nd in the 3­meter and 17th in the 1-meter competition. 
Contact Joseph Monardo and Vicky Jacobsen at jmonardo@nd.edu and vjacobse@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 

Senior Boyce sets school record 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Although they did not take home first place honors in their first match outdoor match of the spring, the Belles’ performance at the George Fox Invitational earned a mark in the record books as senior co-captain Mary Kate Boyce shot a school-record 66 in the first day of the two-day tourna­ment. 
“Shooting 66 on Friday was pretty thrilling; it was even more thrilling having my par­ents there to witness the round,” Boyce said. “I got on a roll early and was able to keep it going through the entire 18 holes. You don't really believe it can happen until you're standing on the 18th green signing your scorecard.” 
Boyce was quick to credit Belles coach Mark Hamilton and her teammates for carry­ing the team to their second place finish. Junior Natalie Matuszak also had an out­standing performance for the Belles, shooting a 79 and 81 over the two days, respective­ly. 
“My coach provided a great pep talk prior to the round about staying positive, and it really helped me,” Boyce said. “Each player on our team gave a great effort. We saw we have a lot of depth and are excited to see where it will take us.” 
Saint Mary’s was in control of first place after shooting a 302 on Friday, but the weath­er on Saturday provided a challenge for the Belles, and they fell to host George Fox, 623-616. 
“George Fox's team was able to play really consistently,” Boyce said. “Saturday there was a lot of wind, and they were able to score well despite the conditions. We all gave it our best shot, but they came out on top. We are hoping to have the chance to compete against them again and get our revenge.” 
Boyce said it was nice to compete outdoors, even though the weather proved to be an obstacle for Saint Mary’s. 
“Playing outside was a blast,” she said. “It gave us a burst of energy and will help us practice hard through the bad weather back in South Bend. We really enjoyed the sun and desert.” 
Despite not coming home with the victory, Boyce said the Belles learned more about their team as they head into the remainder of the spring season. 
“While we were disappoint­ed not to win, we saw a lot of potential in our team,” Boyce said. “Each player showed improvement this week, and we must work to continue to improve.” 
The Belles will travel to Texas Apr. 4 to compete in Southwestern University’s spring invitational. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde@saintmarys.edu 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 2011 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish struggle but win first home game 14-5 
By MATT DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
After more than a week with­out a game, the Irish played three games over a 10-day stretch. They lost to Ohio State 13-8 before rebounding to defeat Boston University 14-5. A 6-5 loss to Cornell capped off the stretch for Notre Dame. 
Against the Buckeyes March 10, sophomore attack Betsy Mastropieri scored a career-high four goals, all in the first half, as the Irish (3-4) held a slim 6-5 edge heading into halftime. 
Ohio State rebounded in the second half, scoring the first 


“Someone needed to
four goals after Jessi Steinberg’s the break on step up and convert on goal with 8:19 their way to left in the period. 
offense [against
outscoring the Steinberg fin-
Cornell]. We haven’t 
Irish 8-2 in the ished with three second half. The had an entire game goals on the day. Buckeyes, led Freshman mid-
where our offense and 
by senior attack fielder Kaitlyn 
defense both played
B r i t t n e y Brosco broke the Zerhusen’s five well.” tie in the first goals and three overtime with a assists, went on free-position shot 
Jackie Doherty 
two separate 4-but Cornell 
Irish senior captain
0 runs in the responded by the 
Junior attack Maggie Tamasitis and senior midfielder Kailene Abt both scored three goals and added three assists in the win. Doherty scored her first goal of the season and forced six turnovers. 
“Against Boston, we were able to hold the ball for a long time and convert the goals and pull away,” Doherty said. 
On Sunday in Baltimore, the Irish dropped a 6-5 double over­time decision to Cornell just a year after Notre Dame played in four overtime games. 
After the Irish rushed out to an early 4-0 advantage, the Big Red stormed back in the second half, tying the game on junior attack 
second half. Soph omore midfielder Jenny Granger chipped in two goals and four draw controls. 
“When we’re up, we stop get­ting possession on the draw and we’re not converting turnovers into goals,” senior captain defender Jackie Doherty said. “We aren’t converting offensively and struggling defensively.” 
In Notre Dame’s first game in its own Arlotta Stadium, the Irish once again brought a slim lead into halftime against Boston University. This time, however, the Irish broke open the game with nine second half goals. 
Spurred by a 7-0 second half run in which seven different play­ers scored, Notre Dame’s lead ballooned to a game-high 10 goals. The Irish outshot the Terriers 40-16 in the game. 
knotting the 
game up with just 24 seconds left in the period. The Big Red scored the only goal in the second overtime to win the game. 
The Irish are now 0-2 in games decided by one goal and their four losses have come by a com­bined 10 goals. Last year, Notre Dame was 5-3 in games decided by a goal. 
“Someone needed to step up and convert on offense [against Cornell],” Doherty said. “We haven’t had an entire game where our offense and defense both played well.” 
The Irish head to Long Island, 
N.Y. Saturday to take on non-con­ference foe Hofstra in a noon contest. 
Contact Matt DeFranks mdefrank@nd.edu 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

Team extends streak to 4-0 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

Playing without Preseason All-American midfielder Zach Brenneman for the second straight game, third-ranked Notre Dame continued its scorch­ing start with a 10-9 victory over No. 16 Denver in a back-and­forth thriller. 
In the game last Saturday, the Irish (4-0) survived Denver’s fourth-quarter comeback attempt to earn their fourth victory over a ranked opponent in as many games. 
Against Denver (3-2), Irish sophomore goalie John Kemp was tested early and often, as the Pioneers netted the first two goals of the game and claimed an early lead. Sophomore attackman Ryan Foley first put the Irish on the board with a goal nearly six minutes into the quarter, his first of three on the night. The teams traded goals for the remainder of the half, and the Irish took a 6-5 lead into the break. 
“It was a very back and forth game,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “It was a very well-played game on both team’s part. I did not think we played great, but we played really hard and with a lot of poise given the situation, and thankfully, we made enough plays to win.” 
One of the most important Irish plays of the day came with the score tied at 7-7 midway through the third quarter, when junior attackman Nicholas Beattie scored a man-up goal which turned out to be a spark for the visiting team. Though Denver was back at full strength, fresh­man attackman Westy Hopkins and senior attackman Colin Igoe each added a goal of their own, pushing the Irish lead to 10-7 heading into the final quarter. Despite two late goals by the Pioneers, the Irish hung on for the win. 
In a game that was anything but comfortable for the Irish, Foley said the players gained confidence from the way they were able to pull out the tough victory. 
“I guess it’s good to know that we can find different ways to win when we’re not really clicking offensively,” Foley said. “Our defense stepped up late again, as usual, but we didn’t really have a lot of success towards the end of the game in settled offense, we just kind of made big plays at the right times. It was good to know that guys are going to step up and make plays when we needed them, when we weren’t really feeling a rhythm offensively.” 
A number of Irish players recorded highlight-worthy stats in the game against Denver. Kemp turned in another fantastic performance, racking up 13 saves, and senior attackman Sean Rogers recorded two assists to go along with his pair of goals. Kemp’s solid play earned him a spot on the Big East Weekly Honor Roll alongside Foley, who now has five goals on the season after scoring just once in his freshman campaign. 
Despite their undefeated start and the many individual high­lights, Foley said the Irish are being careful to ensure that they do not experience a slip-up simi­lar to last season’s, when they fol­lowed up a 3-0 start with losses in their next two games and five of their next seven. 
“We’re feeling good about how we started,” Foley said, “but at the same time we were kind of at this exact spot last year and then we went into a kind of losing streak, so we are just focusing on getting better each week and put­ting each game in the past after a win ... and trying not to repeat the trend that started last year after this start.” 
If the Irish are able to avoid this potential pitfall, their impressive performances on both offense and defense could signal the makings of a remarkable season. 
“I think we are still really con­fident on offense or defense,” Foley said, “Going forward, we felt that everything we were doing was working, we just weren’t capitalizing on a lot of shots … Obviously, there is always room for improvement, so we are just focusing on that right now.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo jmonardo@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Notre Dame dominates at Regionals 
By MIKE TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

The Irish began NCAA post­season play on a high note over spring break, as both the men’s and women’s squads put forth strong performances at the regional competition. In total, Notre Dame captured 13 of the possible 18 medals at the event, including four of six gold medals. 
The women competed first, earning six medals Mar. 12. The Irish dominated both the foil and sabre, taking gold and silver in each weapon. Freshman Rachel Beck led the foil by winning gold while sen­ior Haley Reese took silver. In the sabre, senior Eileen Hassett took gold while sopho­more Abigail Nichols earned silver. The Irish also took sil­ver and bronze in the epee, led by senior Ewa Nelip and junior Courtney Hurley, respectively. 
By virtue of winning gold, Beck and Hassett earned auto­matic qualifications to the 2011 NCAA championships. 
The men competed the fol­lowing day, taking 7 medals. The Irish supremacy at the foil was in full display, as Notre Dame took all three medals in the event. Freshman Ariel DeSmet took the gold, followed by junior teammates Enzo Castelleni and Reggie Bentley, who won silver and bronze, respectively. 
The men also took the top two awards in the sabre, with senior Avery Zuck winning gold and fellow senior Barron Nydam taking silver. In the epee, sophomore James Kaull took the silver and senior Brent Kelly won the bronze. 
In all, the Irish took at least two out of the three possible medals in every weapon dur­ing both the men’s and women’s events. 
Notre Dame next competes when they travel to Ohio State this Wednesday through Sunday for the NCAA Championships. 
Contact Mike Todisco mtodisco@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Aoki 
continued from page 24 
because I think the [pitcher] they had in at the end of the game — we should have done a better job handling him.” 
With the exception of an 11­2 loss to Iowa on Saturday, the Irish starting pitching once again gave the team a chance to win by turning in quality performances. Sophomore righty Adam Norton tossed eight innings, allowing just one run and six hits during a 4-3 loss to the Hawkeyes (7-10) on Thursday. 
While Aoki expects fresh­man lefty Anthony McIver to start a number of midweek games for the Irish, he said that Norton would factor into a number of pitching situa­tions as the season progress­es. 
“[Norton] is going to be a very competitive guy on the mound for us,” Aoki said. “He does a really good job of com­manding his fastball, as good as anybody on our staff with changing speeds. He’s a strike-thrower. You simply can’t overvalue the ability for kids to throw strikes and not walk people.” 
Notre Dame struggled to score against the Bulldogs (10-7-1) in both games over the weekend, falling to Gonzaga 4-1 on Saturday and settling for a 3-3 tie on Sunday after 12 innings. Senior right -hander Cole Johnson threw seven innings, yielding a single run on Saturday, which was good enough for his fifth quality start in as many outings. 
Senior right-hander Todd Miller also posted a quality start on Sunday, holding the Bulldogs to a pair of earned runs in seven innings of work. 
“[The seniors] have done so well,” Aoki said. “It’s some­thing that I addressed. They have to resist the temptation to feel like they have to go out there and be perfect. I hope that their emotional and men­tal maturity is going to allow them to stay the course.” 
The Irish host Oakland (3-9) today at 5:35 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. Notre Dame seeks to end a four-game los­ing streak with a victory in its home opener. 
Contact Chris Masoud cmasoud@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S ROWING 

Team improves in Tennesee 
By CORY BERNARD formidable. It was a good in the more traditional regu-Sports Writer test. We were ready to race, lar-season style. After falling 
we executed well. The things to Buffalo in the varsity four 
we wanted to focus on tech-matchup, the Irish claimed 

Like many of their peers, nique-wise and race-wise, we victory in the second race of the Irish rowers headed for were right on it.” the day, a come-from-behind warmer waters during spring Although the scrimmage victory from their second break. In lieu of a week of allowed plenty of mixing and varsity eight boat. relaxation, Notre Dame spent matching, Stone kept the var-The strong showing on the its time in Oak Ridge, Tenn. sity eight boats’ final portion of training for the spring season lineups static. the race came and logging much -needed He said this “It was a good test. as a surprise to miles in racing situations. would not pre-Stone, who 
We were ready to 

The Irish won eight of ten vent things from said his squad 
race, we executed

pieces March 13 in a scrim-changing, how-focused more mage against Alabama and ever. well. The things we on this portion Minnesota. The races consist-“It gives you of the race 
wanted to focus on 

ed of only 1500-meter heats an indication of during prac ­
technique-wise and

as opposed to the normal where we can tice. Stone also 2000-meter distance. They go from there,” race-wise, we were said the victory also incorporated running Stone said of right on it.” will help his starts, in which the boats the ability to team as the achieved a head of steam experiment with season pro ­
Martin Stone 

before beginning, and capped different pieces. gresses. ratings, where the stroke “There was Irish coach “We had not rate of the crews was limited. some switching worked on the 
Despite the informal nature in the 4’s, but first quarter of 
of the event, Irish coach our first and second varsity the race at all in practice,” Martin Stone said the scrim-eight pieces remained the he said. “We just didn’t spend mage against two quality same. That said, our lineup a lot of time on it because we opponents helped his team evolves over the course of the focused on other aspects. The shake off some rust and put year. If someone is getting other three quarters worked their practice into action. stronger or faster and racing out well. It helps us get 
“It was our first time in the better, she can work her way stronger and gives us confi­water in a while,” Stone said. into a better boat.” dence that we can win any “We had to race an Alabama Building on the success of race.” team that has been in the the scrimmage, the Irish took water for a while and a four of five races from Contact Cory Bernard Minnesota team that is very Buffalo Saturday, competing cbernard@nd.edu 
Miele 
continued from page 24 
the final margin, sending Irish starting sophomore goalie Mike Johnson to the bench to be replaced by freshman Steven Summerhays. 
“They’re a skilled team,” senior defenseman and captain Joe Lavin said. “When you give a skilled team time and space, they’re going to make plays.” 
The Irish faced another skilled team the following night in the CCHA third place game in No. 6 Michigan. 
Notre Dame came out strong against the Wolverines (26-10-4, 20-7-1-0) when sophomore cen­ter Riley Sheahan backhanded the puck into the goal after it bounced off the referee. But even with the fast start and a final shot advantage of 44-23, the Irish dropped a 4-2 decision. 
“I was pleased with our team’s effort tonight,” Jackson said. “I thought we played a much more complete game. We weren’t as high-risk with the puck and I thought we played well without the puck. It was just a matter of their goaltending outperforming ours.” 
Jackson made two notable strategic changes and both seemed to have positive effects early. Summerhays was awarded the start in net and the duo of Tynan and fellow freshman for­ward Anders Lee was broken up to increase line depth. 
But it wasn’t enough, as Michigan roared ahead when Louie Caporusso and Carl Hagelin scored 15 seconds apart late in the first period. Jeff Rohrkemper later put the Wolverines up 3-1 in the third period when he sneaked the puck past Summerhays as the netminder was trying to smother it. Though Tynan added his 22nd goal of the season with less than two minutes left to make things interesting, Luke Glendening iced the game with an empty-net goal. 
Although the result was not what the Irish were hoping for on the weekend, Jackson is now looking ahead. 
“We're not going to Manchester to lose. It's going to be a chal­lenge, but we have to refocus. [Seniors] Ben Ryan, Calle Ridderwall, and Ryan Guentzel have all been to the Frozen Four 
— and it came off two losses in Detroit.” 
Contact Sam Gans sgans@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 2011 

Brey 
continued from page 24 
because we invested so much. It just comes to such a screeching halt.” 
The Irish shot just 30.6 percent from the floor and 
23.3 percent from 3-point range, including only one made 3-pointer in the first half. The Seminoles shot 45.8 percent on the game, includ­ing 9-of -19 shooting from long distance. 
“Obviously, you’re going to have your nights where you can’t hit any shots,” Irish fourth -year forward Tim Abromaitis said. “It seemed like the first 30 minutes of the game we couldn’t make anything. We normally make those shots, and, obviously, Florida State’s defense had a lot to do with it, and their 

length and “It’s good to be numb received a athleticism because of the guys No. 2-seed, made them the highest in 
returning. I want them
able to close Brey’s tenure 
out on guys to just remember how at Notre 
quick.” much we invested and Dame. The teams “I am very 
that you’re devastated
traded baskets proud — I
when it ends.” 
to start the said to this game until group, I’m Seminoles’ Mike Brey very, very junior guard proud of what 
Irish coach
Deividas Dulkys hit a 3, starting a 14­2 Florida State run, one from which it never looked back. Four Seminoles finished the game in double-figures, led by jun­ior forward Bernard James, who scored 14 points on 6­of-8 shooting and chipped in 10 rebounds. 
“I thought, if we had to give up anything, we’d give up some jump shots,” Brey said. “But they made them, and then we’re digging out of a hole.” 
For the third time in as many appearances, the Irish were bounced out of the NCAA tournament after an 
off 
-night on the offensive end. Brey said this lack of rhythm was the team’s true downfall. 

“We have to get into some 

offensive 
rhythm, and we really never could do it,” he said. “I think sometimes then you feel the weight of the world on you, and you know, it’s the last game. I think overall this year we played pretty darn loose and attacked, but it was tough at times in the first half when they made some shots and we couldn ’t get into a rhythm.” 


The loss ends an otherwise 
successful year for the Irish, who finished the season second in the Big East and 
they gave us, and those three seniors. But I didn ’t 
want to have a banquet in there tonight. It’s good to be numb because of the guys returning. I want them to just remember how much we invested and that you’re dev­astated when it ends. That’s being in with both feet.” 
Contact Eric Prister eprister@nd.edu 
Florida 
continued from page 24 
total of 27 victories marks the 2010-2011 campaign as a worthwhile one, in which the entire Notre Dame com­munity should take pride 

Or … another sub-par postseason performance shows the program has reached its ceiling, and either an Irish Sweet Sixteen berth will not be seen for another decade, or change is necessary. 
The former argument, the more optimistic argument, the glass is half-full argu­ment, relies on just how little was expected of Notre Dame in November, expectations which pegged the Irish in the middle of the Big East pack. 
Turning those expectations into a second-place confer­ence finish and a trip to the Big East tournament semifi­nals, Notre Dame, well, as senior forward Carleton Scott said, “We had a great year.” 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough earned Big East Player of the Year honors. Irish coach Mike Brey received his third Big East Coach of the Year award in the last five years. Notre Dame jumped from unranked to Old Spice Classic champi­ons in the span of three days over Thanksgiving weekend. 
Losing the all-time win­ningest class in program his­tory – Tory Jackson and Luke Harangody – was supposed to cripple this team. Instead, senior forward Ty Nash claimed that title for himself, now, with 96 wins, the all-time winningest player in program history. 
Even Senior Day served a year’s worth of memories. Hansbrough scored 30 points to end his two-year JACC career in style, and senior walk-on guard Tom Kopko sank two free throws in the final minute as the crowd went wild. 
It was a great year. 
But didn’t all that go out the window at the same time as Notre Dame’s 14-point halftime lead in the Big East semifinals vaporized? While a victory over No. 15-seed Akron was the first in three years in the NCAA tourna­ment, was it not sloppy enough that it has Irish fans still scared of the future? Was a blowout defeat at the hands of the Seminoles the final straw for Notre Dame? 
This argument, the more pessimistic argument, the glass is half-empty argu­ment, relies on just how much was expected of Notre Dame in March, some expec­tations even carrying the Irish to Houston and the Final Four. 
Turning those expectations into another Friday night loss at the Big East tourna­ment and the third NCAA tournament opening-week­end exit in four years, Notre Dame, well, as Scott said, “Right now, it’s difficult to put into words … Of course, we want to still be playing.” 
Hansbrough fouled out of the loss at the hands of the Seminoles with more than three minutes left on the clock. Brey’s NCAA tourna­ment record dropped to a measly 6-9, including two losses at Delaware before 
rebounds on the night. “I was really happy with 
McGraw 

her game,” Irish coach continued from page 24 Muffet McGraw said. “For a 
freshman coming in a game run and a commanding lead to go the Sweet 16, she did-it would not lose on its way n’t look nervous at all.” to a 77-64 victory Monday Achonwa was one of five night in the second round of Irish players to score in dou­the NCAA tournament. ble figures. Novosel and sen­
“We didn’t panic, that was ior forward Devereaux 
the biggest  P e t e r s  e a c h  
key,” junior  scored 17 points,  
g u a r d N a t a l i e N o v o s e l  “I was really happy with [Achonwa’s]  sophomore guard S k y l a r D i g g i n s s c o r e d 1 5 a n d  
s a i d .  “ We  game. For a freshman  s e n i o r  f o r w a r d  
just execut­e d o n offense and s h u t t h e m  coming in a game to go to the Sweet 16, she didn’t look  B e c c a B r u s z e w s k i added 12. Peters also fin- 
down.”  nervous at all.”  i s h e d  t h e  g a m e  
N  o t  r  e  w i t h  1 2  
D a m e s h o t 1 6 -o f -2 7 ( 5 9 . 3 p e r - Muffet McGraw Irish coach  rebounds, three a s s i s t s , t w o b l o c k s a n d t w o  
cent) in the  steals.  
f i r s t  h a l f ,  N o v o s e l  a n d  

but started the second 4-of-Diggins each shot two 3­12 (33.3 percent). pointers in the first half, but Meanwhile, The Owls did the the Irish relied exact opposite — 33.3 per-heavily on the cent in the first half, 60 per-post in the sec-cent in the first eight min-ond half and fin-taking over in South Bend. 
The starting lineup of five seniors was supposed to be immune to late-season col­lapses, mental blocks and the pressure of a single-elimination tournament. Instead, they folded against Louisville in the Big East semifinals, they slipped by against Akron Friday after­noon, and against Florida State, they seemed to sigh and sit back. 
Even the early portion of the first half Sunday signaled Notre Dame’s annual demise. Holding a 9-7 lead after an unimpressive start, the Irish gave up a 7-0 Seminoles run and never overcame the 14-9 deficit. 
It was a horrible year. 
In this tale of two seasons, the downtrodden view only exists because the high-fly­ing smiles arrived first. 
Sunday night, the Irish were crestfallen, devastated, and understandably so, but they never would have been so distraught if they had met expectations this season. Instead, the Irish hoped to continue to rise above expec­tations. A hope unfulfilled. 
“How numb we are. I mean, we’re all really lev­eled physically and emotion­ally because we invested so much,” Brey said. “It’s hard for me to frame the season right now.” 
That investment yielded great dividends, but a horri­ble return. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
points, including a 3-pointer at the end of the half that made the halftime score 41­29. 
“She was killing us as the game went on, ” McGraw said. “That 3 she hit at the end of the half was a real dagger for us. It was a five-point swing, a missed lay-up and she makes a 3. 
“We could have put them away in the first half.” 
With the win, Notre Dame advances to the Sweet Sixteen in Dayton, Ohio Saturday and will play the winner of Tuesday’s game between No. 3-seed Miami and No. 6-seed Oklahoma. 
Temple, which has played in each of the last eight NCAA tournaments, has never advanced past the sec­ond round. 
It will be Notre Dame’s second straight Sweet Sixteen appearance. However, the Irish have not advanced to the Elite Eight since 2001, the year Notre Dame won a national cham­

utes of the second. But the ished with 44 “Any win in the pionship. Irish righted their offense points in the Asked if the 
tournament is a

and pulled away from the paint. Irish have the 
relief.” 

Owls. “That was our look of a Final “When we got within five I game plan to Four team, 
felt like all the momentum not let them Cardoza didn’t 
Natalie Novosel 

was in our favor,” Temple score in the hesitate. 
Irish junior guard 
-
“Most defi nitely,” she said. 
The Irish were more reserved about their favored position at this point. 
“Any win in the tourna­ment is a relief,” Novosel said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

point guard Shey Peddy said. “Right there, that’s where we let it slip away.” 
Freshman forward Natalie Achonwa entered the game at the 14-minute mark in the first half and provided an offensive spark for Notre Dame, scoring four quick points to make the score 10­
5. Achonwa scored eight of her 10 points in the first half, and also grabbed eight paint,” Owls coach Tonya Cardoza said. “I don’t know what happened.” 
The Owls went 12-for-25 from the free throw line, its 13 missed shots the same as the final score difference. 
“That’s something we haven ’t been good at all year,” Cardoza said. 
Peddy led the Owls with 21 

Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Observer u TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 

Across 38Expiration 1 ___ Picchu (site notices? of Incan ruins) 40It can scratch an 6 It's returned by a itch ticket-taker 41Attach with 10“Arrivederci ___” needle and thread
14Standoffish 
15Topnotch 43Do-it-yourself

relocation rental 16Designer Cassini 45Orbison who 17Something sang “Oh, Pretty everybody is Woman” aware of 
20Stick with a stick 46They may berounded up after 
21Nincompoop a crime, with 22Trojan War hero “the”23Gun, as an 
engine 49Exam for an 25Gait faster than aspiring J.D. 
a walk 50Prefix with 26It's not very sphere
short and not 51Buckeye 
very tall 54Goof up 
32401, in old
Rome 56Mutual fund 33“There's ___ in charge
My Bucket” 60Cheapest choice (children's song) at the pump 34Changes course 

suddenly 63Freud's libido 36Plan that 64Letter-shaped 
changes courses beam 
BALM MAC 

BRAVO AREA I CES 
REVEL ICANTSTOPLOV ING TSHI RTS RAW 
STA LOA 
A IMS IMWALK I NGBEH IND DIE LEND 
SURER TABS SKI LL 
BASE AMEND ROUT 
QTS GI RL IMGONNAMI SS SOON 
CHE BAG ONO 

CHOOSES ONLYWANNABEWI TH ONION S I LO 
ETTU REBUS BMX 
DEAN 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
65Orange or grape
soda brand 
66Peeved 
67Fries, to a 
burger
68Alan or Adam of filmdom 
Down 
1 Non-P.C. choices? 2 Oodles 3 State it's not good to be in 4 Man, in Havana 5 Sci-fi sight 
6 Noted Fifth Avenue emporium
7 Oodles 8 Numero ___ 9 “Watch out now” 
10Winner of the first Nobel Prize in Physics, 1901
11 Shoppedescription
12Huge: Prefix
13Matures 
18Like the land that includes Monument Valley
19Sainted ninth-century pope
24Elizabethan ___ 
25Sororitymembers such as Ann-Margretand Laura Bush 
26“Farewell” 
27Pros and cons 
28Lose one's shirt,
in business 
29Yale of Yale University
30What the Tin Woodman sought from theWizard of Oz 
EUGENIA LAST 
 OROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  
49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  
66  67  68  

Puzzle by Paula Gamache 

31The 42Twangy-54Oath of old Ghostbusters sounding 55Burger order 
and the Police 

44Comics villain specification32D.J.'s collection ___ Luthor 57Piggy plaint 
35Cunning 47Hawaiian 58Dead set against 
verandas

37Artist Henri de 59Watergate figure 
48Arrest 

___-Lautrec John 39Apartment 51Lucky strikes? 61Cleanup hitter's 
building 52Subway fare? stat overseers, 53Composer 62“Anatomy ___informally Stravinsky Murder” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
T E MATING RITUAL 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
PLEASANDVILLE JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ECNTA  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ORNWC  

 
 
 
 
 

ATUPEC  

 
 
 
 
 
 

CESAWH  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Sign
for
the
IAFLOFCI
(OFFICIAL)
Jumble
fan
club 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

Print answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: FAULT DROOP INCOME DROWSY Yesterday’s 
Answer: The new robot housekeeper would become a — MAID TO ORDER 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, March 22, 2011 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Bracket busted 

Irish dream season No. 27 Florida State 
No. 10 Irish fall to suffersdisappointingend 
CHICAGO — It was the best
By ERIC PRISTER 
of seasons, it was the worst 
Sports Writer 

of seasons. It was a season of success, CHICAGO — In an NCAA 
it was a season of failure. tournament filled with upsets, 
It was the the second-seeded Irish were 
epoch of not immune. No. 10 -seed 
faith, it was Florida State’s 27th-ranked 
the epoch of defense held Notre Dame 18 
frustration. points below its scoring aver-
Following age on the way to a 71-57 
Notre Dame’s third-round victory. 
dreadful loss “Florida State flat out beat 
to Florida us,” Irish coach Mike Brey 
State in its said in his post-game press 
second Douglas Farmer 
conference. “The combination 

NCAA tour-of their defense in the first 
nament half and their seven 3-point 
Sports Writer

game shots put us on our heels. I 
Sunday, thought we had some great 
there were looks at times that we didn’t 
two plausible Irish reactions, make that we need to make 
each equally valid, equally over the top of size like that 
appropriate, equally because you’re not going to 
poignant, each intertwined get stuff around the bucket. 
with the other. And we’ re kind of numb 
The unexpectedly high win 
GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 

Irish senior guard Ben Hansbrough drives on a Florida State defender during Notre see BREY/page 22 Dame’s 71-57 loss in the NCAA tournament Sunday. see FLORIDA/page 22 



HOCKEY 

No. 8 Notre Dame gains spot in NCAA tournament 
By SAM GANS 

“[Merrimack coach] Mark If a Notre Dame vs. Miami fourth goal of the game for the ond when freshman center T.J. 
Sports Writers 

Dennehy's done a great job there,” matchup comes to fruition, the Irish RedHawks. Miami ended the first Tynan’s shot bounced off the skate Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “They will hope it turns out better than period leadimg 4-0 and Notre of junior right wing Billy Maday Despite a disappointing perform-play an up-tempo style, they have the conference semifinals did this Dame finished the first 20 minutes into the net for Maday’s eighth goal ance at the CCHA tournament this really good special teams, they past Friday. with only two shots. of the season. But CCHA Player of weekend in Detroit’s Joe Louis seem to be a high-energy team and Notre Dame (23-13-5, 18-7-3-2 “I thought [Miami] put a lot of the Year Andy Miele responded Arena, No. 8 Notre Dame had a they've got some really talented CCHA) got off to a rough start pressure on us,” Jackson said. quickly for the RedHawks, making strong enough season to gain a spot kids on that team, too." against the eventual CCHA tourna-“Their skill and speed forced us to the margin four goals again. in the 16-team NCAA tournament Should the Irish get past the ment champion RedHawks (23-9-6, turn a lot of pucks over and you Though senior left wing Calle field. Warriors, a familiar foe could be on 16-7-5-2) in a 6-2 defeat. First can’t do that against a team like Ridderwall kept the Irish in it with 
The Irish earned a No. 3 seed in deck. Fellow CCHA member Miami team All-CCHA member Carter that, because they transition so well a late second period goal, Miele the Manchester, N.H., region and a is the No. 1 seed in the region, with Camper got Miami on the board offensively and they have so many struck again early in the third for first round game against No. 2 seed a game against No. 4 seed New 4:52 into the game. Less than 10 great weapons.” Merrimack Saturday night. Hampshire. minutes later, Camper scored the The Irish scored early in the sec-see MIELE/page 21 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish take down Temple 77-63 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
SALT LAKE CITY — For a while, it looked too easy. 
Notre Dame’s defense clicked, its shots fell and it built a comfortable lead over a scrappy but overmatched Temple. 
But then for a short while, it looked too difficult. 
The Owl defense suffocated the Irish, the calls went Temple’s way and the No. 10­seed cut the Notre Dame lead to five with 13 minutes left to play. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw called a timeout, and her team responded to the Temple threat with a 10-0 
see MCGRAW/page 22 

BASEBALL 
Team remains winless after home tournament 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Despite hosting the Irish classic over spring break, Notre Dame failed to deliver a win on St. Patrick’s Day, falling to Iowa in extra innings. The Irish finished the tournament winless after dropping a second game to the University of Iowa Hawkeyes on Friday, losing to Gonzaga on Saturday and earning a tie on Sunday. 
“I think we pitched very well,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “If you look at the entire body of work, I think we defended it pretty well. We just still are a work-in­progress with the offense — it’s just been a struggle.” 
Notre Dame (7-10-1) has yet to find its rhythm on offense, as the lineup failed to score more than three runs in all four games of the weekend tournament. The Irish have not posted a dou­ble-digit run total since tal­lying 19 runs in a rout of Purdue on Feb. 19. 
“Our at-bats are better,” Aoki said. “We faced two pretty good starters from Iowa and two pretty good starting pitchers from Gonzaga. I was disappointed in the extra-inning game that we lost against Iowa 
see AOKI/page 21 





