
. 
COMMENTARY 
At long last, Irish have upper hand on Trojans 
Editor’s note: This week The his previous track record as a head Observer and The Daily Trojan, the coach, which includes a 5-15 mark student newspaper at Southern with the Oakland Raiders and a 7-6 California, teamed up with head-to-slate in his only season with the Uni-head columns addressing one topic: versity of Tennessee. the direction of the rivalry between The 16 Trojan points were the the two football programs. direct result of 
Observer Associate Sports Editor four Tommy Rees Andrew Owens lends you his opinions turnovers in concerning a tilt in Notre Dame’s Notre Dame ter­favor, and Daily Trojan Columnist ritory. Despite an Dave Dulberg argues USC retains its average starting grip, though the fans are the biggest field position at winners. the 23-yard line 
following the 
Six years ago, No. 9 Notre Dame four turnovers, hosted No. 1 USC in one of the most the Irish defense memorable contests in recent college surrendered only football memory — a game remem-three field goals bered simply as the ‘Bush-Push.’ and a touchdown. 
While the Irish fell in a heart-The Notre breaking 34-31 defeat, many viewed Dame-USC battle the game as evidence of Notre Dame’s is always a ba­imminent return to football promi-rometer used to determine where nence. First-year Irish coach Charlie each program stands and last year’s Weis seemed to have the program Irish victory suggests a shift in mo-rapidly moving in the right direc-mentum in the rivalry. tion and, with the departure of Matt With a gargantuan opportunity in Leinart and Reggie Bush after the this year’s contest, it marks the big­2005 season and Trojans coach Pete gest game for Notre Dame since that Carroll’s continued flirtation with fateful October day six years ago. the NFL, the end of a tumultuous Only this time, the program is much four-game losing streak to USC was closer to returning to elite status in sight. than it was in 2005. 
Well, not exactly. Despite consecutive losses to begin 
Carroll delayed the inevitable this season, Kelly’s plan is working. departure four more years and Weis Players are becoming more comfort-was ousted at the same time, ending able in his system and his recruiting, a period of Irish befuddlement in the specifically on the defensive side, has form of an eight-game losing streak provided this year’s unit with depth, with a 24.5-point average margin of not to mention present and future defeat. playmakers. 
Just a few months later, USC was While USC is hampered by a placed on probation, banned from scholarship limit, Notre Dame has bowl appearances for two years and, the opportunity to reel in its second most importantly, stripped of 20 consecutive top-10 class, and this scholarships over a two-year period. weekend will go a long way toward 
Under Irish coach Brian Kelly and attaining that goal, as the Irish host Trojans coach Lane Kiffin, a new 17 elite prospects on official visits chapter of the rivalry is unfolding, and many more on unofficial visits. as the two will be inextricably con-What happens if Notre Dame loses? nected throughout their respective Well, the rest of the college football tenures. world will roll its proverbial eyes and 
Kelly won the first battle between quip that it’s simply another false the two, a gritty 20-16 Irish victory alarm on the ‘Return to Glory’ claim. that snapped eight years of turmoil Some prospects might not buy into and returned the Jeweled Shillelagh the plan Kelly is preaching. to Notre Dame for the first time since And if the Irish win? the Bob Davie era. The Trojan fan base becomes fur-
Detractors are quick to point out ther disgruntled with Kiffin’s perfor­the Trojans were without their start-mance, Notre Dame’s slim BCS hopes ing quarterback and right tackle in become a bit less slim, and a crop of the 20-16 loss. Notre Dame, however, the most talented high school pros-was even thinner in numbers, with a pects in the country, many of whom freshman backup quarterback, and are USC targets, get a front-row seat backups at running back, tight end, in an electric atmosphere to the nose guard and linebacker. continuation of a new streak in the 
Lost in the argument amidst all the storied rivalry. injuries is the important point that Kelly and defensive coordinator Bob Contact Andrew Owens at Diaco bamboozled a talented Trojan aowens2@nd.edu offense and its coach, Lane Kiffin, The views expressed in this column who was hired more for his abil-are those of the author and not ity to out-scheme a defense than for necessarily those of The Observer. 

Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

GUEST COMMENTARY 
Trojans still dominate, but the rivalry is changing for the better 
LOS ANGELES — Unless I’ve been sleep-Aside from South Bend hosting a night ing under a rock for the last decade, the game for the first time since Lou Holtz question of who still holds a grasp on the was calling plays on the Notre Dame Sta-coveted “Jeweled Shillelagh” heading into dium sidelines, this game has a rare air USC and Notre Dame’s primetime show-about it none of us have felt for some time. down tomorrow For a rivalry that began Dec. 4, 1926 night, requires little 
thanks to the chatty wives of USC athletic to no thought. 
director Gwynn Wilson and famed Irish USC. 
coach Knute Rockne, the annual matchup There’s no bias 
stretching over 2,000 miles has sadly gone here or jaded sense 
from riveting to mundane over the last of entitlement. The 
handful of years. numbers, the wins 
From NCAA sanctions to coaching and the undeniable 
changes to unfulfilled expectations, two of dominance speak 
the country’s powerhouse programs have for themselves. been reduced to national afterthoughts in Slice it and dice it recent years. anyway you’d like, Forgotten nowadays are historic aside from a rain-chapters like Rod Sherman’s remarkable soaked 20-16 victory catch to help the Trojans knock off a No. that required more 1-ranked Irish team in 1964, or the un­than one fortuitous precedented ties of 1936 and 1968, or the bounce — a wide open Ronald Johnson 24-point comeback by USC at the Coliseum dropping what would have been a go-in 1976 en route to a 55-24 victory or Irish ahead touchdown in the final minutes kicker John Carney’s game-winning field or then-starting sophomore quarterback goal as time expired in the closest game Matt Barkley sidelined for the only time in between the two in 1986. his collegiate career due to a knee injury Because, while these moments have 
— the Irish haven’t even been playing on been forever etched in the lore that holds the same field as the Trojans since about this rivalry together, the battle for the the end of the Clinton Administration. Jeweled Shillelagh these days has been 
Harsh as that might be, heading into overshadowed by off-the-field drama and last year’s literal and figurative Turkey on-the-field disappointments. drop at the Coliseum, USC held an eight-Both schools can play the “I’m better” game win streak over Notre Dame. And, routine until their fan bases go red in outside of the historic “Bush Push” in the face, but the real joy should come in 2005, most of those contests were decided knowing that the rivalry as we once knew before the bands even took the field for it, is back tomorrow night, because slowly their halftime performances. but surely, both programs are making 
Look no further than the 44-13 snoozer strides in the right direction at the same of 2002, Matt Leinart’s 41-10 pre-Heisman time. coronation in 2004, the 38-0 Mark San-That isn’t to say what we will witness on chez coming-out party in 2007 and the the foot-high grass Saturday night are two 38-3 Thanksgiving laugher in 2008. teams battling for national supremacy. 
I know statistics don’t always tell the Both teams still have plenty of issues to story, but a margin of victory of 24.5 address, from Tommy Rees’ growing points per game during that span, doesn’t pains to the tailback carousel currently require a lifeline for explanation. Sorry, taking place in USC’s backfield. Regis. So, on the surface it’s a standard 
One win does not suddenly shift the bal-non-conference matchup between fringe ance of power in the swinging pendulum top-25 teams, but for those who have wit-that defines this rivalry. nessed the highest of highs and lowest of 
Joe Montana’s green jersey heroics in lows of this storied rivalry, 2011 serves as 1977 didn’t wash away the Trojans’ eight the resurrection point. With a nationally wins from 1974-1982, nor did USC’s 1996 televised performance highlighted by pro victory suddenly alleviate the damage left prospects Robert Woods, Matt Barkley, by Notre Dame during the previous 11 Michael Floyd and Manti Te’o, there is no years. debate that the pride of this historic series 
So, why is this current quandary any will certainly be on display this weekend. different? It’s the kind of clash Pat Haden, Lynn 
There is no disregarding the job Brian Swann, Howard Jones, Frank Leahy, Paul Kelly has done in his second year at the Hornung, Joe Theismann and Tim Brown helm of the Irish program. He has quickly would all sit back and smile about. restored the crown jewel of the university, So let me rephrase my opening thought. which was a mighty tall task given the We all are the real winners from this lack of life support his predecessors Char-year’s USC-Notre Dame rivalry game. lie Weis and Tyrone Willingham provided Whether you bleed blue and gold or car-the program. dinal and gold, the real jewel trophy we all 
But, I think the larger, and perhaps can get our hands on, is a rivalry restored. more important question we should be asking, is not who has the bigger finger-Contact Dave Dulberg at print smudge on the rivalry keepsake, dtsports@usc.edu but rather what this game means for two The views expressed in this column are schools caught between the crossroads of those of the author and not necessarily what was and what currently is? those of The Observer. 


Notre Dame unveils helmet changes 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
Whether or not the Irish wear their green jerseys Saturday, fans will have a uniform change to buzz about. Notre Dame’s traditional gold helmets are now more, well, gold. 
“We’ve been frustrated with the helmet and it just has never gotten to the right color,” Kelly said Wednesday. “We want it to be the golden dome.” 
For decades student manag­ers have spray-painted the hel­mets before each game. Now, the managers will only inspect the helmets, removes scuffs and clean them. Nonetheless, the paint on the helmets will continue to have 23.9 karat gold flakes re­moved from the Main Building. 
The hel­mets’ fin­ish is much shinier than the former hel­mets, and Kelly insists the new finish will shine through Satur­day night. 

“We’ve already had it under an HD camera and it looks ter­rific,” he said. “We think it’s the right look … Maintain the tra­dition of our uniform with the right gold helmet.” 

The helmets will also have a decal honoring Xavier Murphy, a senior manager for the team in 2010 and an intern with the team this year. 
“It was a sad day for us,” Kelly said the day of Murphy’s death, Oct. 11. “There are a lot of heavy hearts today.” 
The green shamrock decal has an “X” in the middle of it, and will be worn for the rest of the season. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 






Hit the lights 
More than two decades later, dramatic echoes of its last night game still ring in Notre Dame Stadium 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Michigan quarterback Elvis Brooks’ nine-hour wait did. Editor-in-Chief Grbac’s final pass attempt. “You “It takes a little bit of an ad-
always played Friday nights justment,” Brooks said. “There 
When Rick Mirer found Adri-around 7:00. It had a high is some level of discomfort you an Jarrell in the end zone for school feel to it to some degree, could say, not having played the winning score over Michi-but there was a different vibe at that time. Most athletes are gan on Sept. 15, 1990, nobody from an atmosphere standpoint creatures of habit, so it throws thought Notre Dame would playing under the lights. your scheduling off more than wait 21 years, one month and “It was kind of like playing anything else.” seven days to host another ‘Monday Night Football’ at the Even if schedules are thrown night game. professional level. There was off and habits disrupted, the 
In fact, the majority of cur-certainly a little more to it than consensus among the last 20 rent under-just another years of Irish players is they g r ad u a te s game.” would have loved to enjoy the were born Mirer and night game atmosphere. after Mirer’s the Irish of-“I’m jealous,” said Golden fourth quar-fense started Tate, Irish receiver from 2007­ter heroics strong against 09. “I’m jealous they get to play 
“It was kind of like 
under the the Wolver-at night against SC. It sucks 
playing ‘Monday 
lights in his ines that long-that I didn’t get to experience 
Night Football’ at the 
first start. ago evening, that. I wish I could have played 
professional level.” 
The wait is but Michigan in it.” over. held a 24-21 Tate’s former teammates feel 
Tomor-Reggie Brooks lead with only the same way. Tom Zbikowski row night former Irish cornerback 4:33 remain-(2003-07) was a pivotal player Notre Dame ing when Notre in the 2005 encounter with will take the Dame took over USC, returning a punt for a field at Notre at its own 24. touchdown shortly before half-Dame Sta-Nine plays, 76 time. dium to add yards and 2:53 “It should be fun,” Zbikowski another chapter to its rivalry later, the Mirer-to-Jarrell pass said of the return to the prime-with Southern California, just provided the winning margin. time hour. “We’ve been look-as the Irish did in 2005, 2007 “When they turn the lights ing for a night game at Notre and 2009. on the field in sports, it kind of Dame for quite some time. It’s a 
This time, there will just hap-adds excitement,” Jarrell said. good audience, a good stage for pen to be lights on from before “Football is already exciting, a university to be on Saturday the warm-ups to after the post-and Notre Dame football is al-night.” game Alma Mater, just as there ready exciting, but playing at Even Irish senior captain were for Mirer. night creates an extra aura. and safety Harrison Smith — 
“Honestly, it’s kind of hard Everybody gets a little extra-the same Harrison Smith who to believe … hyped for the sealed last year’s victory over it’s been that game.” USC with an interception in the long,” Mirer In 1990, closing seconds a la Brooks in said. “Under Notre Dame’s 1990 against Michigan — didn’t the lights is “Football is already next three hide his excitement for the first just kind of a home games night game in more than two 
exciting, and Notre 
bigger stage. all began at decades. 
Dame football is 

I think a lot noon, a full “It’s the kind of an environ-was the only thing that could Kelly said. “They haven’t ex-
already exciting, but 

of guys would nine hours ment that you never see at persuade me to come here. I perienced anything, so this is 
playing at night creates 

agree.” earlier than Notre Dame, a night game,” was all sold on USC. I grew up a a first-time experience. You 
an extra aura.” 

When the the Michi-Smith said at USC fan.” know, like anybody else, they Irish, led by gan encoun-a Wednesday But now, love those first-time experi­their sopho-Adrian Jarrell ter. The lack press confer-Te’o will ences.” more quarter-former Irish receiver of activ-ence. “[The take the field As usual, NBC will air the back and his ity throughout fans] are going “It’s the kind of an under the home game, but even the broad-sophomore the afternoon to be, I don’t environment that you lights to face caster is not treating the occa­target, Jar-and evening know, pretty the Trojans sion as a normal one. An NBC 
never see at Notre 
rell, took the led to some rowdy I think.” for the third spokesman said there will be 
Dame, a night game.” 
field 21 years anxiety in the Sitting next time in his about 20 cameras at the game, ago, playing a night game was team hotel, Jarrell said. to Smith was career. including a blimp, three slow-
Harrison Smith 
not all that out-of-the-ordinary. “You go stir-crazy sitting in junior line-“It’s some-motion cameras and one in the 
“It wasn’t a big deal,” said the hotel,” he said. “Instead of backer Manti senior safety thing new,” student section. Mirer, who finished the 28-24 checking out first thing in the Te’o. Four years he said. “It’s The camera in the student victory with 165 yards and one morning, you’re there all day … ago, Te’o was s om e t h i ng section should have some inter-touchdown. “We played at night You try not to watch too many expected to that I’m esting shots if Mirer’s expecta­at other places.” games of other teams playing, sign with USC. looking for-tions are correct. 
Even the players who, like but you have to peek at them. Te’o himself expected to sign ward to. It’s something all the “For the fans, the gameday Mirer, had not yet played much Nervous energy can make with USC. But when National guys are looking forward to.” activities and preparation and in their careers had played un-you tired. You’re going to be Signing Day came around, Te’o Perhaps the fresh nature of all that, that affects the fans a der the lights before in high watching those games for eight changed his mind that morning the night game is why the play-lot more than it does the play­school, a sentiment even more hours.” and committed to Notre Dame ers, past and present, are so ers,” Mirer said. “There is more true of this year’s team. While today’s Irish are ac-instead. excited about the opportunity. of a buzz, more of a buildup, 
“It kind of takes you back to customed to 3:30 p.m. kick-“I told the story a lot of “Clearly our players are look-thanks to the length of the day.” your high school days,” said offs, the four-and-a-half hour times,” Te’o said. “I was going ing forward to being that one Reggie Brooks, a sophomore wait will still pose many of the to go to USC. I prayed about it. I game at night at Notre Dame Contact Douglas Farmer at in 1990, when he intercepted same challenges Jarrell’s and was directed here. I think that Stadium,” Irish coach Brian dfarmer1@nd.edu 



SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Fans reenter Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish warm up after a two-and-a-half hour weather delay at halftime of Notre Dame’s 23-20 loss to South Florida on Sept. 
3. The contest would be later interrupted by another weather delay in the fourth quarter. 

IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 

Irish coach Brian Kelly added Junior running back Cierre COACHING a wrinkle to the Notre Dame Wood and senior Jonas Gray Kelly and offensive coordina­passing attack in the 59-33 win have become one of the most dy-tor Charley Molnar strategically over Air Force when sophomore namic tandems in the country introduced Hendrix as an added quarterback Andrew Hendrix and in recent Notre Dame histo-offensive weapon in the blowout 


Head-to 
debuted. Hendrix, a dual threat ry. In the 4-2 Irish start, the two win over Air Force, giving USC 
quarterback  complementing  have combined for 1,045 yards  one more player to worry about  
the  immobile  Tommy  Rees,  and 10 touchdowns. If Notre  while preparing for the Irish.  
completed all four passes he  Dame can effectively run the  If the offensive gameplan can  
threw for 33 yards and rushed  ball early against the stout Tro­ open up running lanes for Wood  
for a team-high 111 yards.  jan rush defense, which ranks  and Gray early, Rees will have  
Rees had his best statistical  31st in the nation, it will open  the opportunity to take advan­ 
performance in a Notre Dame uniform against Air Force,  up the passing game against a struggling USC secondary.  tage of the Trojan pass defense with the play action. With all  Notre Dame Offense  
completing 23-of-32 passes for  USC must also prepare for  the talent featured on the USC  
261 yards and four touchdowns.  Hendrix  after  his  111-yard  offense,  Notre  Dame  knows  
Junior receiver Theo Riddick was very involved in the game-plan, receiving nine touches for 97 yards and a touchdown. Ju­nior tight end Tyler Eifert added  rushing effort against Air Force. Kelly is likely to use the sophomore in the same capac­ity as he did in the win over Air Force and limit his exposure to  each possession is valuable in order to pick up its fifth consec­utive win. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  WR WR  7 16 6 9  TJ Jones DaVaris Daniels Theo Riddick Robby Toma  So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  
eight catches for 81 yards and a  USC.  
touchdown.  Sophomore linebacker Dion  
Through week seven, USC ranked 105th in the country in pass defense, yielding an aver­age of 272 yards through the air per contest. In its 48-41 win  Bailey is the Trojans’ leading tackler and is key to stopping Wood and Gray from reaching the corners and spreading the field. In order to contain Notre  RB  20 25  Cierre Wood Jonas Gray  Jr. Sr.  LT LG  70 72 66 76  Zack Martin Nick Martin Chris Watt Andrew Nuss  Jr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  
over Arizona on Oct. 1, the Tro­jan pass defense was torched for 425 yards and four touch­ Dame’s speedy running backs, the Trojans might move a safety up to slow down the Irish at- QB  11 10  Tommy Rees  Dayne Crist  So. Sr.  C  52 57  Braxston Cave Mike Golic Jr.  Sr. Sr.  
downs against its two starting sophomore cornerbacks.  tack. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  RG  78 65  Trevor Robinson Conor Hanratty  Sr. Fr.  
EDGE: NOTRE DAME  RT  75 74  Taylor Dever Christian Lombard  Sr. So.  
IRISH SCHEDULE Sept. 3 South Florida  TE  80 18  Tyler Eifert Ben Koyack  Jr. Fr.  
(L, 23–20)  
Sept. 10 @ Michigan (L, 35-31) Sept. 17 Michigan St. (W, 31-13)  IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS Notre Dame had by far its best special teams performance in 2011 in the win over Air Force. No missed field goals, botched  WR  3 81  Michael Floyd John Goodman  Sr. Sr.  
Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh  punts or miscues in the return game helped the Irish cruise.  
(W, 15-12)  Senior receiver Michael Floyd saw limited action as a punt re- 
Oct. 1  @ Purdue  turner in the victory, fair catching the ball each time. His athletic  
(W, 38-10)  ability could provide excellent field position for the Irish, or even a  
Oct. 8  Air Force  score in a game that should be tightly contested.  
Oct. 22 Oct. 29  (W, 59-33) USC Navy  EDGE: EVEN  Notre Dame Defense  
Nov. 5  @ Wake Forest  
Nov. 12  Maryland  
Nov. 19  Boston College  
Nov. 26  @ Stanford  CB  12 23  Robert Blanton Lo Wood  Sr. So.  

Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 
22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 

P ILB 
44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
9 Louis Nix So. 

50 Ryan Kavanagh Sr. NG 98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 
5 Manti Te’o Jr. 
60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 

LS ILB 
54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore Sr. DE 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
81 John Goodman Sr. 
PR 3 Michael Floyd Sr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 
26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 
56 Troy Niklas Fr. 

34 George Atkinson Fr. S 17 Zeke Motta Jr. OLB
KR 
28 Austin Collinsworth So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 
KO 

Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

Considering USC isn’t nearly as good as it was just a few years ago, Notre Dame’s biggest challenge in this game is going to be focusing on the task at hand. The hoopla around this game is disproportionate con­sidering this a matchup of two un­ranked teams — but the atmosphere should be nothing short of unbeliev­
able. That said, once the first kickoff hits the night air, all that disappears. The game is decided on the field — where the Irish are much, much better. 
Matt Barkley and Robert Woods may have quite the con­nection, but Tommy Rees has Michael Floyd as just one weapon in a potent receiving corps. The Notre Dame pass rush will have a field day against the inconsistent Trojan offensive line. But it’s a rivalry game, and it’ll be close. Just not close enough for the Trojans to win. 

Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

I want y’all to see this ... I want you to see everything ... All of the lights. 
Oh, don’t act like you thought I’d use any other song. As horrible as Kanye’s latest hit is, it is pertinent this week for two reasons. One, well, see the cover of this Insider. Two, it is time for us all to see this: 
Notre Dame beating USC at home. 

Most around this campus don’t talk about 2005. 2007 may as well not have happened. I stood on the sideline, staring down the line of scrimmage, on fourth-and-four in 2009. 
So yes, that is my analysis. It’s time to see this. It’s time for the Irish to show this. 
Then again, the best time all weekend will be at 12:38 Saturday afternoon outside of Alumni Hall. 
Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 

Records can be thrown out. Past performances don’t matter. In the first night game in Notre Dame Sta­dium in two decades against heat­ed rival USC, what should happen and what will happen aren’t even in the same area code. 
The Irish have had two weeks to prepare, and Brian Kelly will 
have his team schematically pre­pared. But schematic preparation and mental readi­ness haven’t always gone hand-in-hand this season, and with emotions higher in this game than any other, Notre Dame will need to be focused and ready to play. 
But the Irish should be able to score — they haven’t really struggled to move the ball against anyone this season — and that means it will be up to the defense to seal the victory. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, USC 31 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, USC 13 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, USC 30 
USC OFFENSIVE COACHING USC RUSHING USC PASSING 
Trojans coach Lane Kiffin will If the Trojans are going to The Trojans have one of the attempt to get the running game defeat Notre Dame on the road, most dynamic passing connec­going early, otherwise the of-they will need to rush the ball tions in the nation in junior fense will become one-dimen-effectively. Last year, the Irish quarterback Matt Barkley and sional and possibly lead Barkley held USC to just 80 yards rush-receiver Robert Woods. The 
o-Head to force some throws to his re-ing, and Notre Dame has con-sophomore has been on the re­ceivers. tinued to stop the run in 2011. ceiving end of 60 Barkley pass-
If Tyler and McNeal are in-Although Air Force rushed for es for 783 yards and six touch­volved early, the offense will be 363 yards Oct. 8, the Irish de-downs. Freshman receiver able to utilize the play-action fense held the Falcons’ running Marquise Lee ranks second on pass and involve Woods more backs out of the end zone for the team with 25 receptions for heavily. With Notre Dame poised much of the contest and forced 404 yards and four touchdowns. to put up a lot of points on the a turnover. The Irish secondary has USC Defense scoreboard, the Trojans will try Junior linebacker Manti Te’o been much improved since the to make it a shootout. leads the Irish with 59 tackles, second-half of the loss to Michi­
21 Nickell Robey   So. 
eight-and-a-half tackles for loss gan, which is due in large part 

CB 16 Anthony Brown                 Fr. 
EDGE: EVEN and four sacks in six games. He to the strong play of senior cor­anchors the talented Irish rush nerback Robert Blanton and the defense as the unit attempts to improved performance of senior hold another talented rushing cornerback Gary Gray. Notre 

18 Dion Bailey Fr. attack at bay. Dame will attempt to pressure 
29 Jawanza Starling Jr. 
53 So. Senior Marc Tyler and junior Barkley like it did to Mitch Mus-
OLB Marquis Simmons FS 24 Demetrius Wright So. 
Curtis McNeal lead the Trojan tain in 2010. If the Irish can 96 Wes Horton Jr. rushing attack, which ranks slow down Woods from his typi-DE 42 Devon Kennard Jr. 77th in the nation. USC has cal pace thus far in 2011, Bark-only scored four rushing touch-ley will be forced to get second­
98 DaJohn Harris  Sr. downs this season, one of which ary receivers involved. DT 90 George Uko  Fr. 10 Hayes Pullard Fr. came from junior quarterback Notre Dame’s front seven has 23 Shane Horton Sr. Matt Barkley. Tyler is the pri-been explosive in various parts 
NT 
44 Christian Tupou Sr. 
mary back for the Trojans, but of the 2011 campaign, and has 
98 DaJohn Harris Sr. 
McNeal is averaging 7.0 yards forced turnovers in key spots. per rush on 41 carries this sea-The depth of the defense allows 
8 Nick Perry Jr. 

DE 7 T.J. McDonald Jr. son. the unit to stay fresh deep into 81 Kevin Greene So. SS 19 Drew McAllister Jr. the game. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME EDGE:  USC 54 Chris Galippo Sr. 
OLB 
55 Lamar Dawson Fr. 
4 Torin Harris So. 
USC SCHEDULE 

CB 34 Tony Burnett Jr. 
Sept. 3 Minnesota (W, 19-17) Sept. 10 Utah (W, 23-14) Sept. 17 Syracuse USC SPECIAL TEAMS (W, 38-17) 
Freshman kicker Andre Heidari has been nearly perfect for the Sept. 24 @ Arizona State Trojans in 2011, converting seven-of-eight attempts, including a (L, 43-22) long of 47 yards. Oct. 1 Arizona 
USC Offense 
Senior punter Kyle Negrete has been mediocre this season, av-(W, 48-41) eraging 37.4 yards per punt and downing seven punts inside the 
Oct. 13 @ California 20-yard line. (W, 30-9) Woods is also USC’s primary kick returner and displays some of Oct. 22 @ Notre Dame 
2 Robert Woods So. 

WR the same explosiveness in that capacity as he does at the receiver Oct. 29 Stanford 
19 Brice Butler Jr. 

position. Nov. 4 @ Colorado Nov. 12 Washington EDGE: USC Nov. 19 @ Oregon Nov. 26 UCLA 
86 Xavier Grimble Fr. 
82 Randall Telfer Fr. 




TE USC Specialists 
RT
77 Kevin Graf So. 
    73 David Garness Jr. 
48 Andre Heidari Fr. 
PK

40 Rhett Ellison Sr. 
59 John Martinez So. RG 70 Aundrey Walker Fr. FB 31 Soma Vainuku Fr. 35 Kyle Negrete Jr. 
P 

78 Khaled Holmes Jr. 7 Matt Barkley Jr. 
LS 
62 Chris Pousson Sr. 

C QB

59 John Martinez So. 18 John Manooglan Jr. 
66 Marcus Martin Fr. 

26 Marc Tyler Sr. 
LG 74 Jeremy Galten Jr. RB 21 Nickell Robey So. 
22 Curtis McNeal Jr. 
PR 
LT 
75 Matt Kalil Jr. 
76 Nathan Guertier Fr. 
2 Robert Woods So. 
KR 
48 Andre Heidari Fr. 

9 Marquise Lee Fr. KO
WR 
80 Brandon Carswell Sr. 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

First home night game in 21 years. BCS aspirations still alive. 17 official visits from blue-chip prospects. 
Yeah, this weekend means a lot to Notre Dame. 
While this is not the intimidating crew that former Trojans coach Pete Carroll led just a few years ago, USC is still very talented. Junior quarter­
back Matt Barkley and receiver Robert Woods form the best passing duo in the country and present a formidable challenge for the Irish secondary. 
However, the effect of having a bye week prior to this game should not be overlooked. Irish coach Brian Kelly is 12-1 after a bye week during his coaching career, which in­cludes last year’s 28-3 win over Utah. 
With two weeks to prepare, Kelly undoubtedly left no stone unturned and it will show in an Irish victory. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, USC 24 

Chris Masoud 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Two years ago, Pete Carroll and freshman quarterback Matt Barkley strolled into South Bend and tallied the Trojans’ eighth straight victory over Notre Dame. After exorcising their de­mons on Trojan soil last year, the Irish welcome a seasoned vet in Barkley and second-year coach Lane Kiffin with the opportunity to start a streak that final­
ly favors Notre Dame. 

Saturday night will be everything the loss to Michigan was to Wolverine fans. The first night game in 21 years, the debut of the stunning gold helmets and an opportunity to reclaim the national spotlight alone make this a must-watch contest. The two teams match up evenly. The USC defense and pre­mier receiver Robert Woods should keep the game tight to the very end. But with Carroll gone, I give the edge to Kelly and his staff in a game that may come down to one bold move. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, USC 24 


FOOTBALL RECRUITING 



Notre Dame prepares for highly touted recruits 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
With a four-game winning streak and any last BCS hopes on the line, Saturday’s contest against the Tro­jans is vitally important to Notre Dame’s 2011 season. But with nearly 50 recruits from the 2012 and 2013 classes visiting campus on official and unofficial visits this weekend, the game might mean just as much to the future of Irish football. Not only is the crop of recruits large, but it might be the most talented group Notre Dame has ever hosted, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
“This is by far the most impressive list of recruits that I can ever remem­ber coming in for one weekend,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN-affiliated Irish Sports Daily. “You essentially have 10 top-150 players coming, and that just doesn’t happen.” 
While 14 players already commit­ted to Notre Dame are taking unof­ficial and official visits for the prime­time contest, Irish coach Brian Kelly and his staff will focus on a number of high-profile uncommitted players who can fill Notre Dame’s remain­ing needs on the offensive line and at skill positions, Frank said. 
Washington tackle Zach Banner and California lineman Arik Arm-stead highlight the linemen visiting campus, Frank said. 
“Banner is a massive kid. It’s all good size, too,” Frank said. ‘His best football is one or two years down the road when he grows into his body. 
“Armstead is a big, big kid, and he’s very athletic. Notre Dame really likes him at the defensive end posi­tion.” 
The 6-foot 8-inch Armstead has also expressed interest in playing basketball at the college level, and Frank said the Irish will have no problem with Armstead doing that. 
“I think Notre Dame’s staff is fine with him playing basketball as long as he’s academically eligible and doing well in both football and aca­demics,” Frank said. “I don’t see it being a problem at all. He’s quite the talent and can really help both pro­grams.” 
Illinois offensive tackle Jordan Diamond will take his unofficial visit this weekend, and while Michigan currently leads the race for Dia­mond, Frank said the Irish will have a good shot at luring Diamond away. 
“He’s probably, I would say, the best offensive tackle in the Midwest,” Frank said. “I think it will be inter­esting to see what he thinks about the game and hanging out with the players. I know he’s a guy they liked very early and offered very early.” 
Notre Dame will also attempt to sign California running back Byron Marshall and North Carolina run­ning back Keith Marshall (no rela­tion) to complement already-signed Ohio running back Will Mahone, who is also visiting this weekend. 
“Byron Marshall’s probably the best running back on the West Coast,” Frank said. “There are a lot of good athletes playing running back, but he’s just a really good run­ning back. 
“Keith Marshall is probably a little faster … He’s maybe a little bit more explosive, but not quite as big. He will certainly fit a role.” 
In addition to both Marshalls and Mahone, all-purpose athlete KeiV­arae Russell will visit campus. 
“He’s one of those guys who, when you throw the ball in his face, he just makes things happen,” Frank said. “He’s just a really explosive player — the kind Notre Dame hasn’t had in a while, a guy who can make a lot of people miss.” 
While Notre Dame has filled a number of its defensive needs, the Irish will host Ohio linebacker Ifea­di Odenigbo, who, despite having very little experience in organized football, is highly touted by Frank. “You just can’t pass up on Ifeadi. He’s just extremely athletic,” Frank said. “He’s just a great athlete in a big man’s body already. 
“Most people think he’ll come down to Stanford, Northwestern and Notre Dame … When we talk about big-game atmosphere, that’s what’s going to give Notre Dame the edge over the other schools.” 
California running back Ishmael Adams, whom Frank calls “highly underrated,” and California safety Shaq Thompson highlight the un­committed defensive backs who will visit this weekend. 
“[Thompson] is probably one of the most athletic guys in the coun­try,” Frank said. “If you get him, you’re doing really well, because he can really change a lot of things and really make teams prepare around him because he can be so destructive on defense and of­fense.” 
In addition to a number of un­committed players, the Irish will also host four players who have ver­bally committed to other schools but continue to express interest in Notre Dame. Florida offensive lineman John Theus, committed to Georgia, leads that group, and Frank is not surprised that Theus continues to draw interest. 
“He’s got great size, he’s a strong kid who can run- and pass-block well and he moves well,” Frank said. “He’s just a guy that you know you’re going to count on when you bring him in, and that’s why he’s so coveted. I’d be very surprised if he didn’t pan out wherever he goes.” Florida cornerback Donald­ven Manning, while commit­ted to Virginia Tech, has con­tinued to develop a relationship with Irish wide receivers coach Tony Alford and thus is taking his official visit this weekend. “He’s really intrigued by Notre Dame … and I think he just really wants to check out Notre Dame and make sure he’s not passing up an opportunity,” Frank said. “I have a feeling he’s really going to like it at Notre Dame.” 
Florida cornerback Brian Poole, California wide receiver Jordan Payton and California receiver Bryce Treggs will also visit Notre Dame besides being interested in other schools. 
“[Poole] has been a guy they liked a lot initially. He’s very, very high on that board,” Frank said. “[Payton] is a really good receiver, an explosive player with great hands. 
“I really like Bryce Treggs be­cause he’s one of those guys that just seems to outperform his physi­cal gifts, and that’s no slight on him because he’s a good player.” 
With so many players visiting, Frank said it was tough to pinpoint which player would be most im­portant. 
“I wouldn’t say there are two players that are important — it’s more like 10,” he said. 
For a full list of players taking visits this weekend, visit ndsmcobserver.com 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 







