

Forum continues discussion of education reform 
Panel focused on issue of developing better schools for nation’s youth 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Forum contin­ued Wednesday as four experts wrestled with the most prominent issues currently affecting Ameri­can education during the panel discussion “The Conversation: De­veloping the Schools Our Children Deserve.” 
The panel, which included per­spectives from the founder of Teach for America and a bishop, reflected on which aspects of American edu­cation they would like to change. 
Juan Rangel, CEO of the United Neighborhood Organization (UNO) in Chicago, which is the largest national Hispanic charter school operator, said his work with the or­ganization highlighted holes in the way Americans approaches immi­grant education. 
“In many ways we’ve forgotten what the public school system is 

see FORUM/page 5 





Students look to service as postgraduate option 
10 percent of graduates volunteer at least one year 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Senior Katie Stucko’s cur­rent application process con­sists of two interviews — an online activity test and nu­merous essays. 
Stucko is not applying for a high-paying financial or ac­counting position on Wall Street. Instead, she is apply­ing to volunteer as a teacher through the Teach for America (TFA) program. 
“I’m really into doing what I’m passionate about,” Stucko said. “And what I know right now is where I need to be and that is doing this.” 
Each year, approximately 10 percent of Notre Dame gradu­ates commit to at least one year of service either in the United States or abroad, ac­cording to the Center for So­cial Concerns website. 

see SERVICE/page 4 





Center for Social Concerns hosts service fair 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
Seniors had the opportunity to speak with representatives from more than 80 different service programs at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) Post­graduate Service Fair Wednes­day evening. 
The event, held in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter, provided seniors with infor­mation regarding postgraduate opportunities, Michael Heb­beler, director of student lead­ership and senior transitions at the CSC, said. 
“The postgraduate service fair is a way for seniors to ex­plore different options,” he said. “There are so many service programs looking for dedicated workers. You don’t have to jump right into a career.” 
Each year, about 10 percent 
ELISA DECASTRO/The Observer 


see FAIR/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College hosts Trot for Tots page 4 u Viewpoint page 6 u PEMCO’s “25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee” page 8 u Men’s soccer recruits page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Thursday, September 29, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD PARTY WITH ANYONE, WHO WOULD IT BE? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Emily Schrank Andrew Owens Anna Boarini Matt DeFranks Tori Roeck Joe Wirth Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Alex Kilpatrick Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 70 LOW 53 


Connor Meehan  Emily Potucek  Ethan  Justin  Catherine  Caitlyn Kalscheur  
Montemayor  Cunningham  Gillespie  
freshman  freshman  junior  
Zahm  Breen-Phillips  sophomore  freshman  junior  Lyons  
Carroll  Keough  Lyons  
“Charlie Sheen.”  “Jesus.”  “The E-Trade  
“Manny  “Donald ‘Don’  “Run DMC.”  baby.”  
Pacquiao.”  Duck.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Heidi, Germany’s famous cross-eyed opposum, dies 
BERLIN — Germany’s celebrity cross-eyed opos­sum Heidi — who made an appearance on American television this February predicting Oscar winners — died of old age on Wednes­day at 3-1/2 years. 
The star of Leipzig Zoo became a national darling when her photo appeared in the mass-circulation news­paper Bild in December. 
With merchandise, a song written about her and more than 330,000 fans on Face­book, Heidi’s death will be mourned by many. 
The zoo said Heidi had not moved and had been suffer­ing for weeks. The pain had intensified over the last few days — even with increased medication. 
“We did everything pos­sible to find the cause of her immobility,” Leipzig Zoo Di­rector Joerg Junhold said in the statement. 
Doritos founder to be buried with iconic snack 
DALLAS — The man cred­ited with creating Doritos will be buried along with some of his beloved snack chips, his family said Tues­day. 
Arch West died Sept. 20 of natural causes at a Dallas hospital. He was 97. 
His remains were cremat­ed, and the family plans to bury the urn inside a burial box at a local cemetery on Saturday. 
The family requested that friends and relatives who attend the graveside service be allowed to toss Doritos around the box as a tribute. 
“He would think it is hi­larious,” said his daughter Jana Hacker, a resident of the Dallas area. “The cem­etery does not mind because they are biodegradable.” 
Doritos is the second-best selling chip of Frito-Lay’s brands nationally and inter­nationally. 
Global sales of Doritos were about $5 billion in 2010. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Jean Zaru, Palestinian Quaker, peace activist and author of “Occupied with Nonviolence: A Palestinian Woman Speaks,” will be the featured speaker at the 13th annual John Howard Yoder Dialogues on Nonviolence, Religion and Peace. 
The lecture will begin at 11 a.m. today in the Hes-burgh Center auditorium, followed by lunch and infor­mal dialogue in room C-103. 
The Institute for Latino Studies is sponsoring a lecture by Professor David Roediger of the University of Illionis titled “Race Man­agement: Production and the Production of Differ­ence in U.S. History” today at 4:30 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art’s Annen­berg Auditorium. 
The science fiction film ti­tled “World on a Wire” will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center to­night at 6:30 p.m. The cost is $3 for students. 
The exhibit titled, “War­hol’s Camera” is on display at the Snite Museum of Art until Nov. 13. The exhibition focuses on the importance of photography to Warhol’s Pop aesthetic and explores a variety of roles that pho­tography played in his work. The museum is open Tues­day and Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Thursday through Saturday from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@ gmail.com. 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 







Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


STUDENT SENATE 



Members pass resolutions to improve fields, elections 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed resolu­tions to improve West Quad and Riehle Fields and to reform the election process at its meeting Wednesday. 
The proposed changes to West Quad and Riehle Fields, commonly known as McGlinn and Stepan Fields, respectively, include light­ing the fields and covering them in turf. 
Residence Life Chair John Sand­ers said the much-needed improve­ment of these fields was brought to the attention of the Residence Life committee two years ago. 
“Use of them has just gone up to such an extent that it would be bet­ter for us to have improved facili­ties there,” he said. “Light the field, double the amount of time you can be there, which leads to increased use, which is why we need turf.” 
Sanders said turf would improve the durability of the field. 
“With turf we wouldn’t need the maintenance,” he said. “The field is compressed with people stomping around and you can’t grow grass if it’s too compressed and the field quality goes down.” 
When the idea was initially pro­posed, Sanders said RecSports and university architects created a plan based on student need and desires. 
“But the plan has not been acted on,” he said. “This resolution is an attempt to reignite the push for this project by demonstrating student need and desire for it.” 
Because parts of Riehle fields are already lit, Sanders said the lighting is mostly intended for Mc-Glinn fields and the turf is intended for both. 
Sanders said evidence of the need for these improvements can be seen through intramural and club uses. 
“The two most important fac­tors are that last year there were almost 400 intramural games played at Riehle and that club use accounted for over 50 hours per week,” he said. 
The second resolution passed by Senate comprised two main areas of concern in the election process, Oversight Chair Ben Noe said. 
told the committee’s reasoning only a few minutes before the ap­peal hearing. 
“They had to explain why they thought the violation was wrong but at the same time they were also hearing for the first time exactly what that violation was,” Noe said. With the proposed changes, the vice president of elections is now required to give the candidates a detailed description of the com­mittee’s deci­sion process, 
Noe  said  the  “The two most  explaining what  
first area of con­cern makes sub­stantive changes in terms of policy issues. The three main policies changed in the  important factors are that last year there were almost 400 intramural games played at Riehle and that club use accounted for over 50 hours per week.”  they found them guilty of and why. “We’re trying to open up the election commit­tee a little more,” Noe said. “It was  
resolution  are  one of the com- 
the  allegation  John Sanders  plaints from last  
confidentiality  residence life chair  year.  

ally typed out, would not be consid­ered a listserv. 
In terms of endorsements, Noe said previouslycandidates werenot allowed to solicit endorsements, but were allowed to campaign on them. “But how do you define when a candidate is soliciting an endorse­ment or campaigning on an en­dorsement they didn’t solicit?” he said. 
With the changes, tickets are allowed to solicit and campaign on endorsements from student groups. However, the groups are not allowed to spend any allocated or unallocated funds on the en­dorsement. 
Noe said any group in the Stu­dent Union, such as Student Sen­ate, is banned from endorsing candidates. In addition, tickets may not accept or campaign on en-which allegations can be made and in which certain bodies need to meet during the election process. 
First, the election day was moved from a Monday to the previ­ous Wednesday. 
On election day, the polls will still close at 8 p.m. and students can file allegations until 11:59 p.m. The election committee then has 24 hours to convene to hear the al­legation. 
After the conclusion of the hear­ing, the accused ticket has 12 hours to file an appeal. If an appeal is filed, Senate is required to meet within 24 hours to hear the appeal. 
After the decision of Senate, the election committee has 24 hours to meet and make a final decision. 
If a run-off election is required, the run-off debate would occur 
Sunday afternoon 
and the run-off 
dorsements from “Because last election would be University offices or year’s election held Monday. departments. Noe said if all
system was fairly
Last year’s elec-the aforementioned
new as well, we 
tion committee also events take place
wanted to work 
made recommenda-the absolute latest 
out some kinks
tions, which were decision would be 
we ran across.” 
taken into account released two Fri-in this resolution. days after the initial 
“Because last Ben Noe primary election. year’s election sys-oversight chair Becker said one tem was fairly new main reason for as well, we wanted these changes was to work out some kinks we ran the decision to withhold election across,” Noe said. results if an allegation was filed. 
The main goal of these changes “If the election results were held was to constrain the amount of up for a really long amount of time, time in which an election could then it would delay the run-off,” take place, Noe said. she said. “So we compressed the 
In the past, if possible allega-time that an allegation and ap­tions and a run-off election were peal process could possibly take taken into account, Noe said the and moved the election and run-off election could remain undecided election so the timeline would al­for weeks, ultimately running into ways fit between them.” Junior Parent’s Weekend. 
To avoid that, the committee Contact Mel Flanagan at compressed the amount of time in mflanag3@nd.edu 


Saint Mary’s hosts annual Aquinas lecture 
By SUSAN HEAD 
News Writer 
College students should not feel the need to be constantly happy, Notre Dame philosophy professor Alasdair MacIntyre said in the annual McMahon Aquinas lecture Wednesday evening at Saint Mary’s. 
The lecture, “How Truth Is Approached Through Error: Rereading Aquinas’s Project at ‘Summa Theologiae’ Ia-IIae, qq. 1 and 2,” explored the teachings and writings of 13th century theologian Saint Thomas Aqui­nas. 
MacIntyre began his lecture by discussing the way Aquinas approached philosophy. 
He said Aquinas first in­troduced readers to the false conclusions reached by earlier philosophers in order to engage readers in an ongoing philo­sophical discussion. 
“We as human beings are truth seekers,” he said. Self-de­feating, error-prone truth seek­ers.” 
MacIntyre explained how Aquinas examined the natural human tendency to desire hap­piness in the “Summa Theolo­giae.” 
To Aquinas, happiness was defined as an achievement of the virtues, particularly the Be­atitudes, but as MacIntrye said, this is a difficult concept for 21st-centruy readers to under­stand. 
“Happiness has become the name of a psychological state,” he said. 
MacIntyre said people are less happy because they have be­come “foolishly self-indulged.” He said people have become “burdened by the notion of hap­piness” and feel ashamed to ad­mit to being unhappy. 
Instead, MacIntyre proposed that people, particularly college students, discredit the concept of needing to be happy at all times. 
He said it is helpful to be un­happy because through displea­sure with the current self, a person may then be motivated to grow in virtue. 
Thomas Graff, a sophomore philosophy major at Notre Dame, said he enjoyed the lec­ture as an introduction to Aqui­nas. 
“I appreciated [MacIntyre’s] ability to not only effectively communicate the misconcep­tions of human happiness, but also to emphasize the impor­tance of philosophy and virtue as primarily an individual pur­suit,” Graff said. 

Contact Susan Head at shead02@saintmarys.edu 
requirement, the question of what constitutes a list­serv and how candidate endorse­ments are handled. 
Former Oversight Chair Paige Becker said in past years, if an al­legation was made against a par­ticular candidate, then that candi­date and the accusing person met with the election committee and would both present their cases. 
“Then the two parties would leave and the election committee had a hearing and discussed their points,” Becker said. 
Following the hearing, Noe said candidates would be informed of the committee’s decision, but would not be told any reasons why the committee made that decision. 
Candidates then had to decide whether or not they wanted to ap­peal the decision, Noe said. If they decided to appeal they would be In addition, if 
an allegation is 
made, the elec­tion committee will not release the results of the election to the student body until the allegation is resolved. 
Another issue raised in last year’s election was the question of what constitutes a listserv. 
Under the previous rules, the constitution stated candidates were not allowed to campaign via listserv, but it did not specify what exactly a listserv was. 
“We decided that a listserv would be defined as any email that ends in ‘@listserv.nd.edu’,” Noe said. “That’s what cannot be used in a campaign.” 
Last year, an allegation was made saying a candidate used a listserv to campaign, Noe said. However, the committee decided that a list of student names, manu­


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Thursday, September 29, 2011 



College hosts annual Trot for Tots 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s College Dance Marathon sponsored the third annual “Trot for Tots” 5K, which attracted participants from Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and the South Bend community Wednesday. 
Co-chair Fundraising Ex­ecutives juniors Kate Kel­logg and Liz Kraig were re­sponsible for planning and organizing the race. 
“It’s a great fundraiser to start awareness early in the year,” Kellogg said. “It’s the kickoff fundraiser for Dance Marathon, but it gets the ball rolling on other fundraisers to come.” 
Kellogg and Kraig were satisfied with the turnout this year. Eighty people pre­registered, paying a  $12 fee 


Service 
continued from page 1 
according to the Center for Social Concerns website. 
Stucko hopes to be one of those graduates. 
“I’m applying for Teach For America (TFA) right now and Alliance for Catholic Educa­tion (ACE) later on,” she said. “Also a lot of other teaching programs, every one I can find.” 
Senior Rocky Stroud is ap­plying to ACE as well, in ad­dition to the Peace Corps and Match, a Boston-based program that matches volun­teers with six or seven people who they tutor for one year. 
“I’ve been doing service for so long and I didn’t want to start in the corporate world right away,” Stroud said. “I wanted to take a few years to involve myself in an activity that I couldn’t do sitting be­hind a desk.” 
The summer after his soph­omore year, Stroud partici­pated in a Summer Service Learning Program in Oregon where he worked at a free clinic. He is currently serv­ing as an AmeriCorps volun­teer at the Robinson Commu­nity Learning Center in South Bend. 
Last year, Stroud also trav­eled to Ammoklee, Fla. for a spring break service trip. 
“We helped migrant work­ers down there, seeing how they actually pick tomatoes and put them in boxes,” he said. “It’s basically working slavery.” 
Stucko said she has partici­pated in a multitude of volun­teer teaching programs over the years as well. 
“I’m a Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) major, so for three years I’ve done junior great books,” she said. “On Fridays we go into South Bend classrooms and basi­cally do PLS material with middle school kids.” 
Stucko also taught a Sunday school class for Confirmation candidates. 
However, Stucko said a de­fining experience came this past summer when she taught 
9th
 grade English in Houston with a program called Break­through Collaborative, a TFA partner organization. 
“It’s the same model but it’s for really intelligent low-income kids,” she said. “It gives them extra help over that included a tank top. 

“This is the first year we’ve had this many par­ticipants pre-register,” Kel­logg said. “So already, we’ve raised over $850 with pre­registration.” 
Last year’s Dance Mara­thon raised over $63,000 and Kellogg said they hope to increase that by 20 per­cent. 
“That’s our goal,” she said. 

Kraig and Kellogg said they are especially happy with the amount of money fundraised, considering the number of students that at­tend Saint Mary’s. 
“It’s really great that we’re able to do so much with the size of our student body,” Kraig said. “We also have the help from Notre Dame this year, too, which makes a difference.” 
The race started at the 
the summer to get into great high schools and ultimately go to college. 
Stucko said her time in Houston helped her realize she wanted to participate in a program such as TFA after graduation. 
“This experience and the others culminated into me thinking this is what I want to do,” she said. “I was just doing these things because I really loved it then I realized, oh, I can do this as a real job.” 
Stucko said the TFA appli­cation process is a series of stepping stones, going from sending in a resume and ini­tial application, to a phone interview, to an online exam covering both quantitative data analysis and essays and finally ending in a full-day interview. 
“First there’s a group inter­view and at the end you have to teach a five-minute lesson in front of the entire group,” she said. “And then there’s an individual interview.” 
Last year, Stucko said about 46,000 students applied and TFA accepted 5,500, which is about 11 percent. 
The ACE application is not due until Jan. 25, Stucko said, and the two are very similar. 
“There are less stops along the way for ACE,” she said. “You need recommendations too though, and you have to take the GRE since it’s a mas­ters program.” 
Stroud said the only ap­plication he has begun is for Peace Corps. 
“I met with a recruiter at the Career Fair, and then I had a mock interview,” Stroud said. “It wasn’t an official in­terview, it was more of a meet and greet.” 
Stroud said the Peace Corps only accepts about one-third of its applications, and he has heard a high amount of ACE applicants are waitlisted. 
“I think a lot of times it goes to the people who start applying early in the fall se­mester,” he said. “The people who think, yes I want to do this and they get the job.” 
Stroud said while many stu­dents consider post-graduate service to be a fallback op­tion, those people should still apply for the programs at the same time as they would for a mainstream job. 
Stucko hopes to transform this experience into her fu­ture mainstream job by con­tinuing in the education world after her volunteer teaching softball fields and looped around the outer perim­eter of Saint Mary’s campus twice. The finish line was marked at Library Green in front of McCandless Hall. 
“I already enjoy running, so it’s something I already love to do,” junior Dilan Yuk­sel said. “It was just awe­some that I could combine helping kids with what I al­ready love to do.” 
Sodexo Dining Services provided refreshments af­ter the race. Gift cards and T-shirts were awarded for first, second and third place runners. 
“I ran for the kids,” junior Caitlin Walsh said. “There’s really nothing more to it. It’s just a great cause I wanted to support.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 
experience, and possibly ap­ply for doctoral programs in education management. 
“I have dreams of doing school administration kind of things and being involved in larger school reform,” she said. “I’m looking at this as a stepping stone into whatever that is.” 
Stroud said he would like to connect his service work to his future occupation in a different way. 
“I want to go into public health,” he said. “I want to help write laws or work in hospital administration to continue helping the peo­ple I’ve been serving for so long.” 

Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 



Fair 
continued from page 1 
recent years, that number has increased to 12 or 13 percent. 
“More and more students are taking the plunge into postgraduate service,” he said. “Those who do are better equipped to pursue fulltime jobs in the future because they have lived, experienced the world and know themselves.” 
He said two of the most pop­ular programs in recent years have been the Peace Corps and the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). 
ACE is a two-year program in which graduates serve as full-time teachers in under­privileged Catholic schools throughout the United States, he said. 
“Because it’s a signature ND program, ACE is pretty com­petitive. They take about 50 people each year,” Hebbeler said. “The most competitive program is probably the Peace Corps, which only takes 20 of the 60 to 70 students who ap­ply.” 
Despite the competition in­volved with some programs’ application processes, Heb­beler said students should not be discouraged. 
“I encourage graduates to think about the work that can speak to them. They should think about their skills, gifts and interests,” he said. “There are programs for every stu­dent in every major. If you want to do service, you can make it happen.” 
The majority of Notre Dame students either enter into their respective career fields or begin graduate or medical school the year after gradua­tion, according to Hebbeler. 
“It’s inertia. All your friends are landing jobs in October or making plans to go to med school, so it seems like the thing to do,” he said. “But that’s not the point of a Notre Dame education. The point is that Notre Dame forms you in a way that inspires you to ad­dress issues of injustice and poverty that burden the lives of so many.” 
Caitlin Nichols, a member of the class of 2011, current­ly works with the St. Joseph Worker Program, an organi­zation based in St. Paul, Minn. and run by the Sisters of St. Joseph. 
“I work as a campus min­ister at a local Catholic high school in St. Paul,” she said. “It has been great getting to know the people in this community and figuring out where I fit in and how I can give back.” 
Nichols, who graduated with a minor in Peace Studies, said she always knew she wanted to do a year of service after graduating. 
“For me, it wasn’t even a decision,” she said. “I was in­volved with so many programs at ND that were so fulfilling. I knew I wanted to continue in giving back to my community. I have plenty of time to figure out what I want to do with my life, and I think this year of service will help me in the process.” 
Hebbeler said it is a com­mon misconception that a year of service will make a person less attractive to future em­ployers. 
“Most companies will honor a student’s decision to do a year of service, even for peo­ple who have already signed contracts with companies,” he said.  “Students need to make the decision to either jump into four or five more years of school or to live freely for awhile and discover more about one’s self.” 

Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



Koehler discusses financial crisis 
By VICTORIA MORENO 
News Writer 
Former German President Horst Koehler called for a re-imagination of global develop­ment and prosperity Wednes­day evening. 
Koehler, also the former managing director of the In­ternational Monetary Fund, delivered his first public ad­dress since resigning from his post in the German govern­ment in 2010. His lecture, “The World is at Stake,” advocated for a shift from individual-cen­tered analysis to a collective struggle for the common good. 
“Individualistic or nation­alistic thinking deprives us of one of our fundamental hu­man characteristics — the ability to view the whole pic­ture,” he said. “We have to look at the whole picture, taking into account everyone and everything. 

part in this participatory de­mocracy,” he said. “We must help shape our world.” 
According to Koehler, one of the fundamental lessons 
learned from the global fi­nancial crisis is the govern­ment’s role as overseer. 
“Govern­ments exists to set forth rules for citizens and then they must act as umpires mak­ing sure the rules are fol-
We must not “All of us have the only bring necessary moral the earth un-knowledge to assess 
der our con-

the actions that led 
trol but also 

to this crisis.” 
protect it as a whole.” 

Horst Koehler 
Koehler 

emphasized Former German President the need for a collective effort in at­
“All citizens need to play a part in this participatory democracy. We must help shape our world.” 
Horst Koehler Former German President 
or persons. 
“All of us have the nec­essary moral knowledge to assess the ac­tions that led to this crisis,” he said. “We all learn, at a young age, that there is good and evil and this helps us judge the 

lowed, but it is ultimately the citizens who play the game,” he said. 
Koehler rejected the no­tion of specialized knowledge and the belief that the finan­cial crisis should be left in 
the hands of “experts” or politicians. 
“You don’t need to study credit -de­fault swaps or under­stand the whole mum­ble -jumble of market structures to know that what hap-

tempts at resolving the current pened in that sector was not international financial crisis. right,” he said. “We all know “All citizens need to play a enough.” 
Koehler instead called for a collective moral consciousness that emphasized the world population rather than indi­vidual nations, regions, states 
actions in the world.” 
Koehler advocated for inter­national solidarity, a “global ethos” that strives for sus­tainable development not necessarily national growth. “The crisis is not over,” he said. 
Koehler noted trust, ac­countability and freedom as key elements that could lead to the sustainable growth and solidarity necessary to bring the crisis to a close. 
Koehler said he has hope for the future and borrowed lyrics from the Michael Jackson song “Man in the Mirror.” 
“If you want to make the world a better place, then take a look at yourself and make a change,” he said. 
Contact Victoria Moreno at vmoreno@nd.edu 



Forum 
continued from page 1 
nity across the board, we’re going to see a very prosperous nation.” 
Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teach­ers and a former lawyer said many Americans make the mistake of fix­ating on one specific problem affect­ing education, rather than looking at the big picture. 
“One thing that I would do is to create a shared understanding in America that public schooling should be about ensuring that all kids, not just some kids, have the op­portunity to engage in their future effectively,” she said. 
Gerald Kicanas, bishop of Tucson, Ariz., focused on children’s attitudes toward education, as well as the im­pact of teachers. 
“I hope that they would see schooling as a wonderful opportu­nity for them,” he said. “Something they feel drawn to.” 
Kicanas said it is important for teachers to enjoy what they are do­ing. 
“The best teachers I had were able to cultivate a passionate in­terest in me,” he said. “I wish that teachers in general could live that tremendous vocation of being a great teacher.” 
Wendy Kopp, CEO and founder of Teach for America, said she would like to change the notion that the place where a child is born deter­mines their educational prospects. 
“In a country that prides itself on equal opportunity, we have an edu­cation system that doesn’t live up to that,” she said. “We have a crisis in our country.” 
Kopp said it is important to recog­nize how extreme the crisis is and to be able to respond to it. 
“We know it doesn’t need to be this way,” she said. “It requires our embracing a new concept of what education is and requires changes inside and outside of the system, but it can happen.” 
The panel also addressed the achievement gap in American edu­cation. 
Rangel attributed the ever-in­creasing gap to the politics of edu­cation. 
“It has nothing to do with the kids, but a lot to do with adult interests,” he said. “Adults have forgotten what the premise of a public school edu­cation is about.” 
Kopp said the achievement gap has occurred because children in low-income communities face chal­lenges that other children do not. 
“Schools aren’t designed to meet their extra needs or level the playing field for them,” she said. 
The panel also touched on the presence of faith-based schools in American education and the issue of school choice. 
Kicanas said financial assistance is becoming increasingly important in faith-based schools. 
“Without some kind of funding, faith-based schools are not going to be viable,” he said. “We have to work in a way to try to get there together.” 
According to Kopp, every parent should be able to choose where he or she sends their child to school. 
“I have to say from my vantage point we should be incredibly op­timistic [about school choice],” she said. “I’m optimistic because we know now it’s possible and we can actually make it happen for our kids.” 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 




page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, September 29, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Our kind of diversity 
Wow. My first Inside Column ever. And — you’ll agree with me after you read this — probably my last. 
First, a confession. I wasn’t pre­pared for this. I realized I was sup­posed to write this about an hour ago. As I scrambled to find something to write about, I considered foot­ball (the forbid­den fruit of Inside Columns), Notre Dame tradition, the Forum, even the epic South Bend tornado­that-wasn’t. I was clearly desperate for a topic. 
I nearly folded. I tried to pawn this column off on another member of the Observer photo department. Then it hit me. Why not write about them? My staff. 
Too boring, you say. Maybe a few of you even stopped reading right there. Clearly my brilliant idea of having photographers and graphic designers write these columns as well as writ­ers was a disastrous proposition. 
Nay I say to you! My staff is vibrant. Lively. Talented. And diverse. 
Just take our nightly editors, for instance. There are five of us. Of the five, one is from Omaha, Neb. and is majoring in Computer Science (or ‘ComSci’ as she recently informed me). One is from the Seattle area and spent the summer digging up an ancient city in Albania. Another is originally from Vietnam and has the shortest e-mail address possible at Notre Dame. The fourth nightly editor is from New Mexico and is the only girl from Lewis Hall who I’ve ever met in my four years here. I am the boring one — the 2,504th person at Notre Dame from “near Chicago” and a typi­cal political science major. But that’s not the point. 
You’re probably asking “so what is the point?” 
The point is that our staff is only a microcosm of Notre Dame. My first two friends here, four long years ago, were from Alaska and Colorado. My roommates when I arrived freshman year were from San Francisco, Misha­waka and Washington, D.C. 
If I were a tour guide on campus, I know what I would say. To each prospective student and their parents, I would explain that — more than any other school I’ve visited — at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame you will meet people who will act as foils for you. 
They will challenge you. They will provoke you. They will infuriate you. They will hit on you. They will pray with you. Maybe they’ll even save your life (thanks, Chris Masoud!) 
This student body is often criticized for its lack of diversity. If diversity is defined narrowly, I agree that Notre Dame is a little weak. But the student body here has a lot to offer — differ­ent perspectives, new arguments and fresh ideas. Don’t be afraid to share them. 
Okay, so what was the point again? 
Yeah, I’m not sure either. But you know what? I’m at 450 words — so here goes nothing. Hopefully my legacy isn’t based on this column. 
Contact Pat Coveney at       pcoveney@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



In the sight of the angels 
Do you believe in angels? Do you  out of heaven and down to the earth.  reason the Church calls us to rejoice  
think they really exist or do they only  Gabriel brought messages from God to  in the lives of these saints is so that we  
live in movie characters like Clarence,  such well-known Biblical personages  will feel compelled to live as they did, to  
the big-hearted angel-in-training from  as Daniel, Zechariah (the father of John  follow their examples of finding the full­ 
“It’s a Wonderful Life”? Or are they  the Baptist), Mary the Mother of God  ness of life in their own particular rela­ 
just handy for solving philosophical  and Joseph. According to Luke’s gospel,  tionship with God and with the world.  
puzzles — say,  Gabriel also comforted Jesus while he  Consider Dorothy Day, a convert to  
about the number Kate Barrett  hung on the cross. Raphael appears in  Catholicism who tirelessly advocated  
of angels dancing  the book of Tobit, one of the canoni­ for the poor and lived absolutely simply  
on the head of a Faithpoint  cal books of the Catholic, Anglican and  among the homeless and near-homeless  
pin?  Orthodox Churches, to protect Tobiah,  of New York. She once said, “Don’t call  
When you Google “angels” (and get  son of Tobit, on an adventurous journey.  me a saint; I don’t want to be dismissed  
past the Angels of Anaheim fan sites),  When Tobiah and Raphael return to  so easily.” She feared being pigeonholed  
you can find sites that offer proof —  Tobit, Raphael heals the blind Tobit and  as someone different than the rest of us  
proof!! photos!! — of the existence of  restores his sight.  even as she spent her life trying to focus  
ghosts and angels ... together!! Despite  When we celebrate the feast days of  on what we all had in common. Further,  
a surplus of superstitious information,  saints, as we have done this week for St.  Dorothy feared that canonization —  
as well as Google’s 45.6 million images  Vincent de Paul, St. Cosmas, St. Damian,  even admiration — of the saints leads  
of angels (with about 45.5 million of  St. Wenceslaus and St. Jerome, or of an­ us to believe that the work of following  
them sporting bird- or bat-like wings),  gels and archangels as we do today, we  Christ is reserved for certain people  
quite clearly the existence of angels  have the opportunity to focus on God,  with extraordinary gifts or a unique  
is well-documented through both the  on the communities which surround us  relationship with God.  
Hebrew and Christian Scriptures. And  and on our own hearts as well, and ask  Perhaps today, then, on this Feast of  
they have their work cut out for them:  ourselves significant questions. Who has  the Archangels Michael, Gabriel and  
in the Bible we find many instances  protected us from evil as Michael did?  Raphael, we might ask ourselves who  
of angels defending heaven, attending  Who has helped us to hear God’s words  the angels have been in our lives? Even  
the Lord, or “standing before God’s  to us, as St. Gabriel brought God’s mes- more importantly, we can remember  
throne,” and serving as intermediar­ sage to Mary? Have we comforted any- that we too are called to be protectors,  
ies. The word angel itself means mes- one on a difficult journey like Raphael  messengers and companions — to sing  
senger, primarily a messenger from  did for Tobiah or taken special care of  the Lord’s praises as today’s Psalm pro- 
God to humans.  the poor and the outcast as did St. Vin- claims, “in the sight of the angels.”  
Today we celebrate the feast of the  cent de Paul? Do we study the Scriptures  
Archangels — Saints Michael, Gabriel  with patient care and attention as St.  Kate Barrett is the director of the  
and Raphael, three angels specifically  Jerome did?  Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry.  
named in the Bible. St. Michael led the  Too often we mark these special feasts  She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu  
“war in Heaven” described in the Book  in the life of the Church with admiration  The views expressed in this column are  
of Revelation, in which he fought Satan  for the angels and saints we celebrate  those of the author and not necessarily  
and his fallen angels, hurling them  ... and we leave it at that. Much of the  those of The Observer.  

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is our choices ... that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.” 
J.K. Rowling author 



WEEKLY POLL 
Which band is best? 
Nickelback Creed All-American Rejects Train 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndscmobserver.com 


Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



How Catholic is Notre Dame? 

This is a question that is asked some­what frequently around here. And since many of those asking the question say that the answer is “not too Catholic” or that Notre Dame has lost its soul, I feel compelled to write a few words to the con-Fr. Joe Corpora trary. Notre Dame is a very Catholic place. Guest 
I attended the Uni-Columnist versity of Notre Dame as an undergradu­ate student, 1972-1976. As a student, I found Notre Dame to be the most Catholic place I had ever been to in my life. I loved it.  
After graduation I returned to Notre Dame in 1977 to study for the priest­hood. During my years at Moreau Semi­nary and while studying for the Master of Divinity degree, I found Notre Dame to be a very Catholic place. I loved it.  
From 1983 until 2009, I was assigned to work in Holy Cross apostolates in Oregon and in Arizona.  I returned to Notre Dame on average three times a year during those 26 years. During my years away, I began to hear rumblings about the Catholic nature of Notre Dame. The controversy surrounding the commencement visit of the President of the United States in 2008 made this question the talk of the nation.  Some of my brother priests found it necessary to write articles and letters questioning the Catholic character of Notre Dame. 
For 19 of the 26 years that I was away, I served the Church as a pastor.  Both in Oregon and in Arizona I was repeatedly struck time and time again by the love, respect, admiration and affection that the people of God have for Notre Dame. Notre Dame is dearly loved by millions and millions of Catholics, not just in the United States, but the world over. And they love it because it is Catholic. 
In July of 2009, I was assigned to live and work here at Notre Dame. Through living in Dillon, celebrating the Eucha­rist in many hall chapels and being around students, I have found Notre Dame to be as Catholic as it ever was. To me this spirit is found everywhere 
— in our Sunday night masses, in our students, in the staff and in the literally hundreds of programs that are part of Notre Dame life. I find that Notre Dame is still deeply committed to serving the Church, perhaps more now than even when I was a student here. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The football coaching internship continues 
Brian Kelly drew the wrong lesson from last year. When Dayne Crist was quar­terback, Kelly called plays like a river boat gambler. After losing Crist to a season ending knee injury, freshman Tommy Rees was thrust into the starting role and Kelly started calling conservative games designed to just win, rather than to win with style. The team rallied around its rookie quarterback, thrived in a more sensibly called offense and reeled off four wins. 
Kelly would later admit that at his previous colleges, he needed the hyper ag­gressive play calling to increase attendance. Kelly drew the following lesson. At Notre Dame:  (a) he did not need style points; and (b) winning was all that mat­tered. The first part is true and allowed us to save the 2010 season and enter the 2011 season ranked in the top 20. But the second part is absolutely false. 
At Notre Dame, winning at all costs has never been and never will be accept­able.  Integrity, loyalty and player development are equal partners with, or more precisely prerequisites to, winning. The college quarterback is the default team leader. He is a player the kids can look up to and one of the few players who can speak for the others to the coaching staff. Crist earned the teams’ respect when, as a five star recruit, he chose Notre Dame knowing that he would have just two years of starting behind all-American recruit Jimmy Clausen. 
When Crist came back from the 2009 knee injury ready to answer the call for the 2010 season, he re-earned his teams’ respect. By the time of the tragic Tulsa game, Crist was the unquestioned team leader. And when he came back from another horrible injury ready to answer the call in 2011, he once again earned the teams’ respect. After one half of mediocre play in the first game of the season, Kelly yanked the teams’ leader off the field and buried him on the bench. One cannot overstate how emotionally devastating this is to college football players. 
They know that, absent a transfer, Crist’s once promising NFL career is over. They think, if Kelly can do that to a five-star recruit, one who has earned the teams’ respect time and time again as its unquestioned leader, what loyalty will he show to me? 
For each member of the Notre Dame team to look down the sideline and see Crist sitting there, healthy, is like waking up in the morning to the smell of sau­sage, eggs and coffee, only to find that the sausage is in fact a turd. Sure, you can pick around it, but your breakfast is ruined. A healthy Crist sitting on the side­lines is a stain that cannot be removed. It will continue to sap the motivation of our players until its resolved. 
Kelly is famous for player development — but that has not happened at Notre Dame. Guys who were expected to have break-out years have played the same or regressed: Gary Gray, Darius Fleming, Carlo Calabrese, Harrison Smith, Theo Riddick. There is something deeply wrong with the state of the Notre Dame foot­ball team. Numerous bloggers have conducted in-depth statistical analyses to try to figure it out. All of them have failed to identify the one thing that is so obvi­ous — the players are not and will not respond well to the benching of a healthy Dayne Crist (coupled with a head coach that turns five shades of red yelling at them on national television). 
The danger of this week’s easy game against Purdue is that it risks masking the real problem plaguing our team. Kelly drew the wrong lesson from last year and that is driving a deep wedge between himself and his players. Let’s hope he real­izes this before the damage becomes permanent. 
Christopher Lilly 
alumnus Class of 1994 Sept. 28 
On Sept. 11, 2011, the Office of the President and the Office of Campus Ministry organized an outdoor Mass in remembrance of the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11. The Mass was beautiful beyond words. As a priest I sat in the front rows facing the altar, so I had no idea how many students were at the Mass until communion. When I walked into the congregation to bring commu­nion, there were students everywhere. There were students for as far as I could see. As I walked back to the altar after communion, there were students kneel­ing on the grass in prayer. I won’t forget this image. 
And then there was a candlelight procession from the Hesburgh Library to the Grotto. I was deeply moved by the prayerfulness of the students as they walked silently in procession. And I thought to myself ... what’s all this nonsense about how Catholic is Notre Dame? An event like this Mass reveals the deep faith that is part of Notre Dame. It is at the heart of Notre Dame. 
Some might say that this Mass does not show that Notre Dame is very Catholic. But I would argue that indeed it does. Our theology shows itself best in our instincts, and so does our life of prayer and faith. I am repeatedly in­spired by the deep faith at Notre Dame. 
One day last week I received an email from the President of Dillon Hall where I am privileged to live. The email was announcing an upcoming dance. Part of the email read, “Tickets will be on sale in the 24 hour lounge tonight after Mass.” I wonder how many other universities and colleges have residence hall presidents sending emails saying, “tickets will be on sale after Mass.” It’s just how Notre Dame is.  
Notre Dame is Catholic, very Catho­
lic. I am very grateful to be working and living at Notre Dame. It is the very Catholic place that it has always been. It strives today, as it always has, to serve the Church. I love Notre Dame. 
Fr. Joe Corpora, CSC, works with the ACE movement and is a priest-in-residence in Dillon Hall. He is a sinner whose sins are forgiven. And he loves anything made with tomato sauce. He can be reached at Joseph.V.Corpora.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


My “year off” 
In preparation for last night’s Postgraduate Service Fair, the Center for Social Concerns interviewed Joe Kolar, current AR in Duncan and former Lasallian vol­unteer. Among other things, Joe was asked why he took a year off. This is what he said: 
If by a “year off” you mean confronting structural injustice while living and serving with people who taught me more about myself than I could ever teach them, then yes, I took a “year off” from the “real world” of academic and corpo­rate success and discovered just how unreal my own world had been. 
A year of service as an inner-city teacher taught me just how much I had yet to learn about what the “real world” really is. I was worried I’d fall behind, but actually, I fell ahead. Thousands of job seekers and grad school applicants have great grades and extraordinary involvement in clubs, but how many can say they spent a year in a foreign country ministering to children with AIDS? Or walk­ing the streets of Detroit to assist street women with health care? Or living in a homeless shelter in Phoenix providing meals day in and day out to the hungry? Experiences like that set a person apart, not behind. 
If you’re ready and pumped for the corporate world or grad school, go for it. But if the smallest of voices inside says, hey man, now is the time to live and explore and put your hands to work addressing these urgent issues crippling the least of my sisters and brothers, then consider delaying your start date. Corpo­rate firms and graduate schools have granted delayed starts and deferments to past graduates. If the company or school is not receptive to your desire to do service, well, that should tell you something about their values. 
And yes, living in community was uncomfortable. It was uncomfortable be­cause I was challenged to confront those personality traits in myself that build walls instead of bridges; uncomfortable because for the first time I was invited to commit to a mission greater than myself and to share the struggles and joys of that mission with others; uncomfortable because in a community I came to see how Christ works through the hands and feet of all people, not just my own. 
Joe Kolar 
graduate student Lasallian Volunteer 07-09 Sept. 28 
Mike Hebbeler 
Center for Social Concerns Jesuit  Volunteer Corps 03-04 Sept. 28 



By CARRIE TUREK 
Scene Writer 

PEMCo not only knows how to smell success — they can spell it too. With this weekend’s production of “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee,” PEMCo promises to captivate audiences with quirky charac­ters, catchy songs and tons of tongue-in-cheek humor. 
Director and choreographer senior Clare Cooney, explains why she, along with producers, seniors Will Docimo and Kevin De La Montaigne, chose “Putnam” last May. 
“It’s got everything you want from a musical comedy,” Cooney said. “Fun dance numbers, beautiful music, dy­namic characters and most importantly, the most hi­larious script I have ever read. ‘Putnam’ offers a strong ensemble cast and a daring, dry sense of humor that I knew PEMCo could make come alive.” 
With a cast of only nine and a crew of only 11, “Put­nam” has to work hard to ensure both the musical and acting strength of each performer. Cooney and music director, fifth year Mark Wurzelbacher, do this flaw­lessly. Instrumentation, vocals and choreography mesh perfectly in this nuanced and larger-than-life comedy. “Putnam” captures the insecurities, fears and inno­cent dreams of six young spelling-bee hopefuls as they ready themselves to compete in Putnam County. The spellers grow with the show, finding friendship and confidence through comedic social interactions and hi­larious spelling bee experiences. 
As part of a small cast, actors must work rigorously to perfect their solos and lines, practicing about three to four hours each day, five days per week. “Putnam” has been rehearsing for only a short four weeks, fol­lowing auditions that were held Aug. 25 and 26. Cooney said the small cast size, coupled with the intense re­hearsal schedule makes for strong relationships and a stronger show. 
“When coming to rehearsal becomes a joy, not a chore, that’s when you know you’ve got the makings of a wonderful show.” Cooney said. 
The success of “Putnam” was ensured from the begin­ning. Sophomore Natalie Perez (Logainne Schwartzan­dGrubenierre) said everyone knew the songs and their harmonies before the first read-through. The actors’ investment in their characters and the music is evident in every line they deliver and every action they take. 
When asked whether or not she relates to her char­acter, senior Kristy Cloetingh (Olive Ostrovsky) laughed good-naturedly. 
“I am an English major.” Cloetingh said. “Olive is a nerd. Absolutely.” 
Senior Sean Leyes (Chip Tolentino) described the characters as being “caricatures, but relatable at the same time.” 
With a full array of childhood props, including toy soldiers, My Little Ponies, puppets and juice boxes, au­dience members are transported back to their primary years. Emotions range from enthusiastic ambition to near hopelessness, all perfectly conveyed by invested actors, a beautiful set, well-executed cues and endear­ing props. 
Audience members can look forward to being part of the Bee, as well. The experience of being a part of the show is incredible and unforgettable. Guest spell­ers are privy to the characters’ quirks up close. They partake, firsthand, in the Notre Dame jokes, hilarious words and off-color definitions. Show-goers who wish 
PAT COVENEY / The Observer 
to volunteer should be sure to get to the show a bit early in order to enter the drawing. Four audience volunteers will be chosen per show. 
Tickets are available for purchase ($6 student, $8 non-student) at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. Performances will take place in Washington Hall on Thursday, Sept. 29 at 7 p.m., Friday, Sept. 30 at 7 
p.m. and Saturday, Oct. 1 at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Carrie turek at cturek@nd.edu 



On campus 
What: “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee” Where: Washington Hall When: Thursday, Sept. 29 and Friday, Sept. 30 at 7 p.m., Saturday, Oct. 1 at 

4:30p.m. How Much: $6 for students, $8 for general admission 


ELISA DEL CASTRO | Observer Graphic 
Brian Regan Morris Performing Arts Center 
7:30 p.m. $15 to $65 

Comedian Brian Regan is bringing his hilarious observational humor to the Morris Performing Arts Center this week­end.  His off-center but clean humor will appeal to all senses of humor, so don’t miss this opportu­nity. 
Swing Night Legends Nightclub Midnight Free with ID 
How awesome are your dance moves? Showcase them this Friday night at Legends’s Swing Night. This night is for all talent levels, so head over either to learn or to show off your moves. Just know, your dancing shoes better be on and you ought to be ready to boogey. 
“The Secret in the Wings” Debartolo Performing Arts Center 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. $15 regular, $12 faculty/ senior, $7 student 
Mary Zimmerman’s “The Secret in the Wings” weaves together the stories of a number of fairy tales, many of them rarely told, like “Three Blind Queens” and “The Princess Who Wouldn’t Laugh.” 
Exhibition Hockey game vs. Western Ontario JACC 
6:05 to 8:05 p.m. Free 
The men’s hockey team will open their season with a contest against Western Ontario.  Al­though they haven’t yet moved into their new home at the Compton Family Ice Arena, the Irish are still ready to start their season. 




By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

It has been a Sigourney Weaver over­load since her visit to Saint Mary’s at the beginning of the week, but it got me thinking about one of my favorite best worst movies — and don’t you dare think “Ghostbusters” because you’d be dead wrong. In fact, a very persuasive argu­ment could be made that “Ghostbusters” is an amazingly brilliant movie. 
“Heartbreakers” is the winner today. 
So for those of you who aren’t familiar, it stars Sigourney Weaver obviously, as well as Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ray Liotta, Gene Hackman and Jason Lee. Zach Gal­ifianakis and Sarah Silverman are even thrown in there. A totally random cast 
— always a best worst movie plus. Also, probably the best tagline in all of movie history, “Caution: Dangerous Curves Ahead.” 
Weaver and J. Love are a mother-daughter con duo who marry men for the divorce settlement. The mother, Max (Weaver) marries them, and then Page (Hewitt) flounces in as the tempting piece of tail, and voila, divorce court. It all makes a lot of sense. Anyways, every­thing starts to go wrong as these gauche Gilmore Girls decide to pull one last con, but Page makes the biggest con mistake of all — falling in love. 
She falls for the owner of a bar (Lee) way out in the swamps of Palm Beach, which just happens to be on a million dollar tract of land. Dilemma. At the same time, Mommy Dearest is trying to seduce a barely alive human ashtray who happens to be worth billions as a to­bacco executive (Hackman), but as Page says, “Old money, but also just plain old.” Max uses the disguise of a Russian wom­an named Ulga, and the Russian accent is classic. Prepare to annoy your friends by speaking in it for a few days. 
Basically the entire movie can be summed up in these two lines: 
Page: “I can make men do anything.” 
Max: “Boys. You can make boys do any­thing. Gas station attendants, bartend­ers, the occasional migrant worker...” 
The rest of the movie is spent trying to prove which one is better at manipu­lating men, so it’s great for female self-esteem. 
The zany (its always a must watch when you put the word “zany” in there) plot isn’t even the best part. It’s the puns. This movie is so flipping punny. For in­stance: “Excuse me, may I grab your nuts? Mmm. Salty.” 
There is a whole lot more that is to­tally inappropriate, completely hilarious and unfortunately unprintable. You do however get to hear Page get called a ju­nior slut and the seed of Satan by Liotta, which is just funny. 
Also for con artists, they wear some fantastic clothing. For the male popula­tion, Hewitt’s cleavage is pretty much a separate character in the movie. It has a plot line. 
Then there’s my personal favorite, sur­prisingly poignant, thought provoking quote, “God is everywhere.” “Yes, he is, isn’t he? Nosy bastard.” 
See, Mother? You were wrong. I can learn something from watching these stupid movies. 

Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
ELISA DEL CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Thursday, September 29, 2011 




SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Kershaw deserves it 
The Cy Young race is all about names. So we are going to play a little game — sort of like one of those dating shows that nobody watches — where you’ll get three of your dream contestants and have to choose one blindly, except you (hopefully) aren’t des­perate for a match. 
Contes­tant #1 is 13-14 this year with a 2.74 ERA (fifth in the NL) with 220 strikeouts (third in the NL) and opposing hitters are hit­ting .222 against him. 
Contestant #2 is 19-6 this year with a 2.35 ERA (second in the NL) with 220 strikeouts (third in the NL) and opposing hitters are hitting .239 against him. 
Contestant #3 is 21-5 this year with a 2.28 ERA (first in the NL) with 248 strikeouts (first in the NL) and opposing hitters are hitting .207 against him. 
Yeah, I would probably choose Contestant #3 too, but would you keep that pick if you knew the others were fa­mous supermodels (or pitch­ers, same difference) — even though Contestant #3 is prob­ably the better pick for you? 
After the curtains are raised, Contestant #1 walks out sporting that atrocious San Francisco Giants cap with the nickname “Big Time Timmy-Jim:” Tim Lincecum. 
Rumor is Contestant #2 is a doctor, going by Doc, and comes out with a red Phila­delphia cap even though we all swear he is Canadian: Roy Halladay. 
And then we see #3, a 23-year old kid by the name of Clayton who is probably still kicked out of bars, with a scruffy Teen Wolf beard under a Dodgers cap: Clayton Kershaw. 
Now that the contestants have been revealed, it seems easy to go with the first two because they are the bigger names each with two Cy Young awards to their names. 
To start with Contestant #1, Lincecum added another great year to his young résumé. But his record was plagued by poor run support from a Giants of­fense that unfortunately lost do-it-all catching phenom Buster Posey midway through the year. Nonetheless, the Uni-versity of Washington prod­uct is undoubtedly worthy of Cy Young contention — and a thorough washing of the grimiest hair since Severus Snape. 

But, this year, Kershaw was the better pitcher. The two youngsters were the center of a superb pitcher’s duel that has turned into one of the game’s best pitching rival­ries. Vin Scully even likened it to the colossal Koufax-Mar­ichal battles of old. In the ri­vals’ five meetings, Kershaw was 4-0 and went 5-0 overall against the Giants this sea­son with a 0.59 ERA — not bad for the biggest rivalry west of Fenway Park. 
To put it simply, Kershaw was a Giant-killer, and those five wins could have been enough to push the defend­ing world champions into the wild card slot. 
Halladay remains a bigger giant to push out of the Cy Young spotlight. The stats are closer to that of Kershaw’s, but Halladay made only seven of his 32 starts against teams that entered the final week of the season in playoff con­tention. Last year’s Cy Young winner, the Doc finished with a 1-4 record in these seven meetings. Kershaw, mean­while, was 12-3 in 18 meet­ings with teams in playoff contention, including a 12-1 record at home with a 1.72 ERA. Personally, Cliff Lee ap­pears better suited to be the Phillies Cy Young contender than Doc, but the pull of Hal­laday’s name serves its pur­pose as a black hole on an outstanding staff. 
Kershaw became the Dodg­ers’ 16th 20-game winner and accounted for a whopping 26 percent of the team’s 81 wins. The southpaw only lost once post-All Star break and only twice since April. 
And to save the best for last, Kershaw won the NL Triple Crown for pitching, leading the league in wins, ERA and strikeouts. The Texas native combined with Detroit’s AL Triple Crown winner  Justin Verlander to become the first duo since 1924 to have Triple Crowns in each league. 
And no, I’m not writing this piece while wearing a medium-sized, away No. 22 Clayton Kershaw jersey with a spaghetti sauce stain on it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
NFL 

Seymour prepares for former team 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Oakland Raiders coach Hue Jackson has no regrets regard­ing his team’s first-round draft pick this year. After all, what’s not to like about a 10-year vet­eran with three Super Bowl rings and six trips to the Pro Bowl? 
“Richard Seymour is every­thing that we thought he would be and a little bit more,” Jack­son said on a conference call Wednesday. “I tell everybody, he was our first-round draft pick this past year. I’m very happy about what happened as far as the trade to here and he’s playing well for us.” 
The New England Patriots also have no qualms with the controversial 2009 preseason deal that sent Seymour to the Raiders for their first-round pick in April’s draft. Although facing Oakland’s 310-pound defensive tackle for the first time on Sunday poses a formi­dable yet faintly familiar test. 
“This is the first time out­side of the thousands of prac­tices that we’ve run into each other,” said Patriots offensive tackle Matt Light, drafted in 2001 by New England 42 picks after Seymour. “I think it’s go­ing to be a dogfight. He knows a lot about the guys that we have up front, so I’m sure he’s looking forward to it as well.” 
The Patriots stunned their fans by sending the then-eight­year veteran to the Raiders on Sept. 6, 2009, one week before the season opener. Entering the final season of his contract at the time, Seymour refused to report to the Raiders in the ensuing days, reportedly per­turbed by the trade. 
When he did make an ap­pearance in Oakland’s first game, though, he was back to his scary self, recording six tackles and two sacks on the way to 47 tackles and four sacks on the year. 
Reflecting on his time in New England, Seymour said on a conference call, can wait until retirement. 
“That chapter’s closed and over and done with,” he said. “I definitely understand I’m on the back nine right now, but I’m looking to finish strong.” 
He certainly knows how to start strong. 
Now in his third season don­ning the silver and black, Sey­mour has 10 tackles and 2.5 sacks, helping lead the Raiders to a 2-1 mark. 
“He’s a tough, hard-nosed football player that loves the game and you can see that by the way he plays,” said New England quarterback Tom Brady, Seymour’s teammate for the duration of his Patriots career. “He has high expecta­tions for himself, he really gets after the quarterback, he plays the run well, he’s obviously a leader in that defensive front there and when he gets going, they all get going. That’s the thing, they really rally around him. 


“When he makes his plays, then they all start making plays.” 
That’s what worries the Pa­triots (2-1). 
Set to turn 32 next week, Seymour doesn’t seem to have lost a step, something many expected from the former New England captain. In fact, his second season in Oakland was better than his first, collecting 48 tackles and 5.5 sacks in just 13 games. 
The Raiders organization seems to believe Seymour’s not finished yet, either, sign­ing him to a two-year, $30 million contract extension in February, at the time making him the highest paid defen­sive player in the league. He rewarded the franchise with three solo tackles and a pair of sacks in the Raiders’ season-opening win over the Broncos. 
“Obviously, he came from (New England), has done a great job here of being, one, a pro, number two, mentoring our players and making them understand what it takes to be the best they can be,” Jackson said. “He’s been tremendous to our staff because he’s a leader of men and he understands what it takes to get this job done week in and week out. So he’s been unbelievable for our organization.” 
Brian Waters, no stranger to Oakland after playing 11 sea­sons in Kansas City before join­ing New England earlier this month, faced Seymour three times in the past two years. He believes Seymour could have benefited more from playing his entire career in the Raid­ers’ fierce 4-3 system. 
“If he had played in a 4-3 system his entire career,” Wa­ters said, “we’d probably be talking about” Seymour being one of the best defensive line­man ever. 
Admittedly humbled and honored by the comment, Sey­mour stressed his all-around ability, saying he didn’t set out to be stronger in one scheme or another. 
“When they speak of 3-4 de­fensive ends, I want my name to come up. When they speak of 4-3 defensive tackles, I’m trying to make my mark there as well,” he said. “Wherever I’m at, I just want to be the best at doing what I do.” 
To Jackson, he already is. 
“I think he is one of the best defensive tackles ever,” Jack­son said. “This guy is as good as there is in football. I’m just so excited he’s here playing for us and we don’t have to play against him.” 
That’s Light and the rest of the offensive line’s problem now. 
“Richard’s just one of those guys that he’s got multiple moves, he plays with a lot of strength and he’s very disrup­tive,” Light said. “Richard’s always been the guy that is playing to the whistle and real physical in everything that he does. 
“He’s a smart player and I’m sure he’s one of the guys that really keeps everybody in line.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED  Experienced cartoonist wanted.  
USC GAs desperately needed. Top $$ 574-277-1659  50 to 75 cartoons $10 each. Contact Professor Weber at  
weber.1@nd.edu  

PERSONAL MODERN FAMILY QUOTES Gloria: I thought one of the Once upon the September morn, advantages of marrying an older The Rays of Tampa stood forlorn. guy was that I was going to be able The final slot was gone for sure, 
Phil: Claire’s a perfectionist, to relax. But all of this swimming The Red Sox held the treasure. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t which sometimes is a good thing, and running and rowing, it’s just go it alone. Notre Dame has many like when it comes to picking a like how some of my relatives got But a mere 29 days late, resources in place to assist you. husband. into this country! The Sox are filled with hate, If you or someone you love needs While the Rays have five new confidential support or assistance, Phil: Guess it’s just one of those dates. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 things that we’ll never know, or Ann Firth at 1-2685. like what really happened to the Thus are the glories of September. For more information, visit ND’s Mitchell: It’s Cameron’s turn to be Titanic. Thus we hunt for October. website at: out in the world interacting with 
other grown-ups while I get to stay Claire: It hit an iceberg. Thus is the beauty of baseball. at home and plot the death of Dora http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu the Explorer. Phil: Maybe. Hey you guyyssssss 

Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
MLB 



Rockies conclude losing season with solemn win 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — The post-game hugs and handshakes had little zest. 
The Colorado Rockies piled out of the dugout and moved in from all corners of the infield to congratulate themselves on the only thing left to celebrate: Not finishing last in the NL West, avoiding 90 losses and, perhaps most gratifying, finally being able to say this sorry season is over. 
Finally. 
Kevin Kouzmanoff had three hits and drove in two runs, and the Rockies beat the San Fran­cisco Giants 6-3 on Wednesday. 
“We know where our situa­tion is,” Rockies manager Jim Tracy said. “We’re going to get busy here a hell of a lot sooner than later and do some of the things necessary to turn the ta­bles on what is definitely a very disappointing season. But we’re going to solve it.” 
As a small consolation, the Rockies will at least be able to soak in a win this winter. 
Drew Pomeranz (2-1) out-pitched fellow rookie Eric Surkamp (2-2) in their second matchup in two weeks and Jor­dan Pacheco added a pair of RBI singles for the Rockies, who snapped a seven-game losing streak to the Giants. 
The series finale that many thought could have playoff im­plications in April became an afterthought. 
San Francisco (86-76) wound up in second place in the NL West behind playoff-bound Ari­zona, becoming the first defend­ing World Series champion not to make the playoffs since the 2007 St. Louis Cardinals. Colo­rado (73-89) finished fourth, just ahead of the last-place San Diego. 
“We ended up on a positive note,” center fielder Dexter Fowler said. “These aren’t the expectations we have for our­selves. At the same time, we want to go out and have fun next year and exceed expectations.” 
The finale attracted a sellout crowd of 41,873, many of whom took every last chance to cheer the 2010 champs. The Giants re­turned to the field several min­utes after the final out to show their appreciation. 
By then, the Rockies were al­ready packed up in the visitors’ clubhouse and heading into an uncertain offseason. 
They had plans — and, on pa­per, all the talent — to make a run at the division title. These two clubs were considered strong contenders to win the West when the season began, and both have busy winters ahead: Among the Rockies’ top priorities is acquiring a front-line starter, while the Giants again need a big bat. 
“I think the important thing is we’ve kind of realized the er­ror of our ways this year,” Tracy said. “Obviously, we were beat up this year, but there’s still other things we need to do to be an efficient club. And as we go into the winter and we go into spring training, that’s basically the message.” 
Giants manager Bruce Bochy and Tracy went with young line­ups to evaluate who might make an impact come 2012. 
San Francisco’s lineup fea­tured only one starter from opening day in Pat Burrell — who might have played his final game — and only two players who were even on the 25-man roster on March 31 at Dodger Stadium: Burrell and infielder Mark DeRosa. 
San Francisco lost reigning NL Rookie of the Year Buster Posey to a devastating season-ending leg injury in a home-plate collision with Florida’s Scott Cousins on May 25 and also went without second base­man Freddy Sanchez because of a shoulder injury that required surgery. 
Many Rockies regulars sat out, too. No injured Carlos Gon­zalez or Troy Tulowitzki, the two stars who received hefty new contracts last winter. Todd Helton is hurt, too. 
MLB 



Marlins commence Guillen era 

Associated Press 
MIAMI — Fresh off a di­vorce in Chicago, Ozzie Guil­len has been reunited with the Florida Marlins and own­er Jeffrey Loria. 
Guillen tends to speak his mind, while Loria leads the league in managerial chang­es, but both dismissed pre­dictions about a rocky rela­tionship as way off base. 
“When we used to go to the winter meetings together, people went, ‘That’s a crazy combo,’” Guillen said. “But we know each other.” 
So there’s no reason to anticipate Guillen ruffling feathers? 
“I couldn’t care less about feathers,” Loria said. “I don’t have any feathers. And I don’t care about him ruf­fling anybody. Ozzie has his opinions, and he’s entitled to them. You know that going in. But Ozzie comes with a great pedigree.” 
And so the Ozzie era began in Miami. Hours before the Marlins’ final game in the stadium they’re leaving, they formally introduced Guillen as their manager Wednesday. 
“It’s a big, big step in my ca­reer, a new chapter,” Guillen said. “Hopefully I can bring energy, flavor and enthusi­asm, but the most important thing is a winning team.” 
The announcement carried little suspense. Shortly af­ter Guillen resigned Monday as the manager of the White Sox, his website leaked the news that he had agreed to become the Marlins’ manag­er. He agreed Tuesday night to a four-year contract and succeeds 80-year-old Jack McKeon, who is beginning his latest retirement. 
The Marlins are staggering to a last-place finish in the NL East. With the team mov­ing to a new ballpark and making a push for more fans and more wins, Loria wanted an experienced manager. 
He turned to one of the game’s most captivating but unpredictable personalities. 
“I think we can turn it around next year,” Loria said. “When you have a — for lack of a better word — cat­egory five manager, it’s going to happen.” 
The two first met more than 20 years ago at a game in which Guillen played. 
“I was sitting in the first row,” Loria said, “and he came over to me and start­ed talking, and talking, and talking. And the umpire had to come over and say to him, ‘Mr. Guillen, you’re up.’” 
After Guillen retired and returned home to Venezuela, Loria coaxed him back into baseball as a coach. Guil­len was McKeon’s third base coach with the Marlins’ 2003 World Series championship team, then became the White Sox manager that November. 
Guillen led the White Sox to the 2005 World Series ti­tle, but his eight-year tenure in Chicago was often stormy and his departure was messy. 
Loria, meanwhile, has gone through a succession of man­agers trying in vain to return to the playoffs. Strong-willed Joe Girardi lasted only one season in 2006, clashed with Loria and others in the or­ganization, and was fired shortly before being chosen NL Manager of the Year. 

Guillen will be Loria’s fourth skipper since early 2010. Guillen said he hates being second-guessed and knows how to discourage Lo­ria from doing so, since the owner’s box is next to the Marlins’ dugout. 
“I will ask, ‘What would you do right now?’ before the fact,” Guillen said. “I’ll say, ‘Hey, I’m going to make a move. What do you think?’ See what he says. He won’t know what to say.” 
But Loria said he’ll contin­ue to be a hands-on owner. 
“I’m involved,” he said. “I do care. I want to see the fans in this community have a ballclub commensurate with the new stadium. I don’t think you can say being in­volved is a bad thing. In 2003 I put my foot down and said, ‘We need a catcher here, and we’re going to sign Pudge Rodriguez.’ Well, I guess that worked out.” 
Aside from satisfying the boss, the biggest challenge for Guillen may be to tap the full potential of 2009 NL batting champion Han­ley Ramirez, whose effort and attitude have frequently been questioned. Ramirez endured a disappointing, in­jury-plagued season. 
“One thing I guarantee you 
— he will be back where he was,” Guillen said. “Hanley is the biggest piece of the puz­zle in this organization, and I’ve got to make it work. You are going to see a different guy on the field. I guarantee you when you see Hanley in spring training, he is going to have a smile.” 
Ramirez said that sounded good to him. 
“Whatever Ozzie brings to make me better is good for me,” Ramirez said. “I still have a lot to prove in this game. He’s going to help me tremendously.” 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, September 29, 2011 
NBA 



Bryant mulls over Italy offer 
Associated Press 
MILAN — Kobe Bryant said it’s “very possible” he will play in Ita­ly during the NBA lockout, adding the country is like home because he spent part of his childhood there. 
Virtus Bologna has made nu­merous contract offers to the Los Angeles Lakers star. Bryant dis­cussed the offer with the Gazzetta dello Sport during a sponsor’s ap­pearance in Milan on Wednesday. 
“It’s very possible. It would be a dream for me,” Bryant said, ac­cording to the Gazzetta. “There’s an opportunity that we’ve been discussing over the last few days. It’s very possible and that’s good news for me.” 
Bryant later spoke to a crowd 
— in Italian — at the event in Mi­lan. 
“I don’t know what’s going to happen over the next three or four weeks, but Italy has always been in my heart,” Bryant said. 
Virtus told The Associated Press that the latest talks are cen­tered on a $2.5 million offer for 10 games over 40 days from Oct. 9 to Nov. 16. That would come out to about $1.5 million after taxes. 
The deal would allow Bryant to return to the Lakers immediately if the lockout ends. 
The 33-year-old Bryant spent several years in Italy when his father, Joe Bryant, played on five teams from 1984-91. The elder Bryant, who once owned a small part of Olimpia Milano, now coaches the Los Angeles Sparks in the WNBA. 
“Italy is my home. It’s where my dream of playing in the NBA started. This is where I learned the fundamentals, learned to shoot, to pass and to (move) with-out the ball,” Kobe Bryant said, according to the Gazzetta. “All things that when I came back to America the players my age didn’t know how to do because they were only thinking about jump­ing and dunking.” 

Turkish club Besiktas and at least one team in China have ex­pressed interest in Bryant, a win­ner of five NBA championships and 13-time All-Star. However, he seems most interested in the Vir­tus offer. 
“It’s a huge honor for me to re­turn to Italy. It’s home for me,” Bryant said in fairly fluent Italian in a video posted on the Gazzetta website. “It’s always been a dream for me to play in Italy. We’ve got to wait and see what happens.” 
Virtus also recently reached out to Manu Ginobili, who played with Bologna before joining the San Antonio Spurs in 2002. Den­ver Nuggets forward Danilo Gal­linari rejoined his former Italian club Olimpia Milano last week. 
The NBA season usually begins in late October, but owners and players have failed to agree on a new labor deal. The two sides are at odds over how to divide the league’s revenue, a salary cap structure and the length of guar­anteed contracts. 
Last week, NBA officials an­nounced the postponement of training camp and the cancella­tion of 43 preseason games. 
Virtus has won 15 Italian league titles but none since 2001, when it also won the Euroleague for the second time. 
Bologna opens the Italian league against Roma on Oct. 9. It did not qualify for this season’s Euroleague, although the team has big ambitions after sign­ing former Clemson point guard Terrell McIntyre, who led Siena to four consecutive Italian titles before transferring to Malaga in Spain last season. 
NFL 


Eagles QB Vick plans to play against 49ers 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — A badly bruised hand isn’t going to keep Michael Vick off the field. 
Vick practiced Wednesday and said there’s a “100 percent” chance he starts when the Phil­adelphia Eagles (1-2) host San Francisco (2-1) on Sunday. 
The star quarterback was initially diagnosed with a bro­ken, non-throwing hand after getting hurt in a 29-16 loss to the New York Giants three days ago. But tests on Monday re­vealed he had a contusion on his right hand. 
“Even if it was broke, I think I would have probably padded it up and went back out there,” Vick said after a morning walk-through. “You got to take pre­caution, but this is what I love to do.” 
Vick hasn’t finished two of Philadelphia’s three games — both losses. He suffered a con­cussion in a 35-31 loss at Atlan­ta on Sept. 18. 
“I just want to be there for my teammates and hold myself accountable for my responsi­bilities and what I have to do as a quarterback,” he said. “So regardless of what I have to go through, I just want to be there.” 
Coach Andy Reid said he wants to make sure Vick can take snaps without any prob­lems. 
“Ball handling, obviously is very important, in particular under the center, that’s where the problem would be,” Reid said. “Shotgun, you can get away with it, but under the center you’ve got to be able to squeeze and right now that’s not 100-percent. So, we’ve got to see. I don’t know how fast it’ll come back. I can’t tell you that.” 
Vick said he did everything at practice despite a little sore­
ness.  
“I’m  very encouraged,”  he  
said.  
Vick  again  apologized  for  

criticizing the officials and say­ing he takes too many late hits without getting the benefit of a roughing-the-passer penalty. 
“I think I was frustrated be­cause I got hit late and I hurt my hand on that play and I couldn’t finish the game because of that,” Vick said. “That was one of the reasons I was frustrated. I don’t want any special treat­ment. All I want to do is go out and play my game. If they feel there’s a need to make a call, then they’ll make it. If not, then I won’t say anything about it.” 
Vick got a laugh out of the New York Post cover that had his face attached to a baby’s body wearing an Eagles bib and holding a bottle. 
“My kids were killing me about that. That was a good one,” Vick said. “I guess when you sit on the podium and you make excuses like that, then you’re going to be labeled a cry­baby, so maybe I did deserve it.” 
Though still early, Vick and the Eagles find themselves in last place in the NFC East, as the Giants, Redskins and Cow­boys are all 2-1. 


Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NBA 



Lockout enters key stretch before weekend meetings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Regular-sea­son games could be at stake when NBA owners and players meet this weekend. 
And those might not be all that is lost, Commissioner Da­vid Stern warned, without real headway toward a new labor deal. 
“All I’d say to that is that there are enormous conse­quences at play here on the basis of the weekend,” Stern said Wednesday. “Either we’ll make very good progress, and we know what that would mean 
— we know how good that would be, without putting dates to it — or we won’t make any progress and then it won’t be a question of just starting the season on time, it will be a lot at risk because of the absence of progress.” 
Talks between negotiators ended after two days Wednes­day so they could return home before summoning their re­spective bargaining commit­tees to New York for the most important stretch of the lock­out. They will meet Friday and are prepared to talk through the weekend if progress toward a new collective bargaining agreement is being made. 
There hasn’t been enough of it so far, with the lockout nearly three months complete. 
Both Stern and union presi­dent Derek Fisher of the Lak­ers said they are not close, with the Nov. 1 season opener a little more than a month away, and Fisher added the commitment to block out multiple days this weekend “points more toward the calendar than actually be­ing able to measure progress.” 
“It points to the realities that we face with our calendar and that if we can’t find a way to get some common ground re­ally, really soon, then the time of starting the regular season at its scheduled date is going to be in jeopardy big-time,” he added. 
Training camps already have been postponed and 43 games scheduled for the first week of the preseason have been can­celed. The league has said it will make decisions about the remainder of exhibition play as warranted, and those could come shortly. 
Fisher said some of the league’s biggest names could join the executive committee in Friday’s meeting, and Miami guard Dwyane Wade has com­mitted to attend. 
Wade was part of a meet­ing about labor issues at the 2010 All-Star weekend in Dal­las, when players were briefed about owners’ plans for dra­matic changes to the league’s salary structure. Owners have been looking to reduce the play­ers’ guarantee of basketball-related income from 57 percent to somewhere in the mid-40s. 
“I look forward to learning something that I didn’t learn two years ago,” Wade told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. “Hopefully, it’s dif­ferent information, something that will move us forward. Hopefully we don’t walk out of the meeting back at where we were at the All-Star game two years ago.” 
Wade has been in New York for the past couple days for business meetings. When the invitation came to attend Fri­day’s session, he did not hesi­tate. 
“I’ve talked to a couple guys,” Wade said. “I’m here. ... I was going to leave tomorrow, but I’m going to stay in town and go to the next meeting.” 
Fisher will brief the players first on the state of the talks. 
“I can’t say that common ground is evident, but our de­sire to try to get there I think is there,” Fisher said. “We still have a great deal of issues to work through, so there won’t be any magic that will hap­pen this weekend to just make those things go away, but we have to put the time in.” 
The sides met for about four hours Wednesday, again in small groups. 
The full groups have met only once since the lockout be­gan July 1, and it resulted in a setback. Players were prepared to make what union executive director Billy Hunter called a “significant” financial conces­sion, but owners rejected their call to leave the current salary cap structure intact as a condi­tion of the move. 
Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver said it was time to go back to the larger groups again because “whatever decisions we are now going to be making would be so monumental given the point of the calendar that we’re at.” 
Stern wouldn’t comment on reports that owners had soft­ened their insistence on a hard salary cap in favor of adding more restrictions to the current cap system that allows teams to exceed it through use of certain exceptions. Nor would he say if the season could still start on cused on let’s get the two com-Nov. 1 without any preseason mittees in and see whether they play. can either have a season or not 

“I shouldn’t deal with hypo-have a season, and that’s what’s theticals here,” he said. “I’m fo-at risk this weekend.” 



SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles defeat Albion to extend MIAA win streak 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Belles faced conference rival Albion at home Wednesday and came away with a 3-0 (25­15, 25-17, 27-25) victory against the Britons. Saint Mary’s (6-7, 4-4 MIAA) took its third straight MIAA match and secured its fourth-place spot in the confer­ence with the win. 
“This was a must-win match for us,” Belles coach Toni Kus­chel said. “One of our goals from the beginning of the season has been to finish top-four in confer­ence, and we had to have this match tonight.” 
Junior Allison Zandarski had 11 kills and .476 hitting percent­age in the match. First year Kati Schneider and junior Stephanie Bodien chipped in with eight and nine kills, respectively. The match, however, was won on the other side of the court as the Belles collected 61 digs as a team and held Albion to a .142 hitting percentage. Senior Meghann Rose led the squad with 14 digs. 
“Our defense played excellent­ly today,” Kuschel said. “Rose leading the team in digs was huge, and Annie Bodien really stepped up.” 
As she has in every match this season, junior Danie Brink led the Belles in assists with 38. The rest of the team combined for three. 
“We passed very well today, and that’s what led to our good numbers in the kills depart­ment,” Kuschel said. “Allison and Danie are really connecting right now.” 
The win was the third in a row for the Belles and completes their first half of the MIAA schedule. 
“We want to take care of busi­ness and control our own desti­ny,” Kuschel said. “We’re happy to get the wins we did the first time through, but we want to add to those this time around.” 
Kuschel said seeing teams for the second time will be ben­eficial for the Belles as many teams, including Saint Mary’s, have youth-laden rosters. 
“We’ve got a week now to get ready for Kalamazoo,” Kuschel said. “So we’ll be watching tape and making adjustments be­cause so much can change from the first time you see a team to the next.” 
The Belles next play Oct. 7 at home against Kalamazoo. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, September 29, 2011 
Calvin 
Recruit 
continued from page 16 continued from page 16 
the second, keeping the 

so I was recruiting the same game tight even as Calvin 
players also.” outshot Saint Mary’s 26-11. 
Clark made specific contacts “In the first half, our 
in Massachusetts that helped keeper, Chanler Rosenbaum, 
land him two current players — made a number of fantastic 
Maund and sophomore forward saves,” Rompola said. “She 
Leon Brown. Paul Sugg, their kept us in the match early 
high school coach at The Rox­on.” 
bury Latin School and Clark’s Rompola filled in for Belles 
contact from his days at Dart-coach Michael Joyce, who 
mouth, recommended both was spending time with his 
players to Clark. family after his wife gave 
“When someone like Paul birth Tuesday. Although 
Sugg says they’re a good player, disappointed by the loss, 
you listen,” Clark said. “You kind Rompola acknowledged that 
of develop certain pipelines.” the Belles’ strong showing 
The Irish roster features play-against the Knights was a 
ers from 17 different states, sign of progress. 
reaching as far west as Califor­“They’re strong, they’re a 
nia and as far south as Texas. strong team,” he said of Cal-
Unlike football, where high vin. “We played well against 
school games are the main at-them. It was a good effort by 
traction, soccer recruiting fo­the team and it’s a measure 
cuses mainly on club teams, of where we want to be.” 
Clark said. Despite his optimistic take 
“That’s really where you do on the Belles’ narrow loss, 
most of your recruiting,” he Rompola identified some as-
said. “A good club team will pects of the team’s play he 
consist of the best players from would like to see improved in 
four or five high schools in the time for the next game. 
area. It makes a lot of sense to “We just need to keep being 
go to club teams.” generation of National Team months of soccer. A lot of them said. “The academic standard able to get the ball forward 
If club teams are a bank vault members. don’t play for their high schools. is high. They have to be a good and find more opportunities 
of talent, consider the new De-Clark said the majority of I’m not sure about that, I think fit personality wise. The have to to get shots on goal,” Rompo­
velopment Academy the Federal the best players will be in the it’s good for kids to play for high know what Notre Dame is about. la said. “In the second half 
Reserve. academy system, but there also schools.” We are in a different market.” we were able to get better 
The Development Academy, remain viable substitutes such Some of the academy recruits The No. 11 Irish return to ac-possession, but we just didn’t 
run by the United States Soccer as clubs teams and high school even go straight to the pros, a tion Saturday when they face St. find quite as many opportu-
Federation (USSF), takes some squads. concept Clark said does not fit John’s in Jamaica, N.Y. nities as we would have liked 
of the best clubs teams nation-“Most of the U.S. scouts will with the Notre Dame imprint. to have seen to put the ball in 
wide and partners them with be there,” Clark said of the “A lot of kids wouldn’t be a Contact Matthew DeFranks at the back of the net.” 
the USSF to produce the next academy system. “They play 10 good fit for Notre Dame,” he mdefrank@nd.edu 
The Belles will look to re­bound when they take on Ka­lamazoo at home Saturday at noon. 
Decade” in Conference USA, command, while Susan’s Irish “It’s challenging,” Susan 


Holt 
Susan accepted a job offer have won 10 tournaments and said. “We have a daughter 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at 
from Notre Dame, and the two Big East championships. who’s 13 and a son who’s 15, 
vjacobsen@nd.edu 
continued from page 16 family returned to the Mid-Notre Dame also made their so it requires a lot of time 
west. first-ever NCAA champion-management. We keep in 
From Purdue, the Holts “We moved here six years ship appearance last season. touch throughout the day and 
moved to Florida, where Su-ago,” she said. “I got hired by “Having each other has we make sure that they’re get­
san took over the head coach-Notre Dame, and [Tim] start-been really helpful over the ting picked up and that we’re 

ing job at South Florida. Tim ed as an instructor locally years,” Susan said. “[Tim] there when we need to be. It Medalist 
continued to work in golf, and and worked at [local course] played college golf, and he’s definitely keeps us busy.” took on a couple coaching Juday Creek in the summers. in the business of golf, so he’s For the Holts, though, they 
continued from page 16 

jobs as well, at Zephyrhills He really immersed himself been able to help me a lot.” wouldn’t have it any other High School, and later at in the golf community here, Between the commitments way. ground on the two teams 
Saint Leo University. While and he was an obvious can-of practices, tournaments “I’ve been doing this for 22 and close the gap.” 
down south, they also started didate when Holy Cross was and golf’s demanding travel years now,” Susan said. “This The Belles have been close 
a family, welcoming children looking for a head coach.” schedule, it can be difficult is what I do and this is what I to putting together solid 
Justin and Kristin. Since the two have taken for the Holts to balance the love, and I think my husband rounds, but big numbers 
After 13 successful seasons their current coaching jobs, demands at work and at home. feels the same way. It’s a good have plagued them all year. 
at South Florida, including they’ve enjoyed an impressive After a few years of practice, fit for us right now, and we’d Brown said she understands 
five conference champion-run. Aided by the assistance though, they’ve managed to like to keep this going.” the importance of keeping a 
ships, two NCAA champion-they receive from one an-find a routine that allows clean round and executing 
ship appearances and receiv-other, Tim’s Saints have won success on the course as well Contact Jack Hefferon at the small things. It separates 
ing the title “Coach of the four tournaments under his as quality time at home. wheffero@nd.edu the mediocre teams from the great teams, she said. 
“When you compare the teams who are winning na­tional championships to the ones who are placing lower, it all comes down to the short game and minimizing er­rors,” Brown said. 
Brown said Saint Mary’s needs a complete team effort to be successful in this week’s match, a theme it will need to continue throughout the re­mainder of the season. 
“I would like to be able to string together some con­sistent low rounds,” Brown said. “I also want to remain focused and confident with my ability this week. That is something that not only my­self, but everyone else on the team is aiming to do as well. 
“We drive each other as a team. Not one score can lead a team to victory. It takes good scores from each and every individual to get us to where we want to be.” 
Saint Mary’s and Albion will face off Thursday at 1 
p.m. at the Medalist Golf Course in Marshall, Mich. 
Contact Joe wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 




Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT                              AND JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

National footprint 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Plato once said, “You can learn more about a person in an hour of play than you can in a lifetime conversation.” Looks like Plato and Irish coach Bobby Clark have more in common than you may think. 
Unlike Plato, however, Clark applies this principle to recruit­ing. 
“I’m a big believer in watch­ing someone play a sport,” Clark said. “You can watch the emo­tions, see how he is. You can pick up on his intensity. You can pick up on his determination. You can pick up on his discipline. You can see how he handles success and adversity. You can see it in his eyes.” 
Clark has recruited success­fully in guiding the No. 11 Irish (5-1-2) to a fast start, including a 1-0 win over then-No. 3 Lou­isville. In the upset win, junior forward Danny O’Leary scored off senior midfielder Adam Mena’s assist while senior Will Walsh anchored the goal and ju­nior Grant Van De Casteele and seniors Greg Klazura, Aaron Maund and Michael Knapp con­tributed on defense. 
Those seven key players for the Irish hail from five different states, a mark of Notre Dame’s national recruiting stamp. Clark attributes the national base to his myriad of contacts. 
“When I was I Dartmouth, I made contacts on the East coast,” he said. “When I was at Stanford, I made contacts on the West coast. Now I am here in the Midwest. Dartmouth, Stanford and Notre Dame are all similar 
see RECRUIT/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Holts enjoy sharing profession, marriage 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Being married to your job can be stressful, depressing and ultimately damaging. But being married to some­one who has the same job? That can be helpful, comfort­ing and, for Irish coach Su­san Holt, a whole lot of fun. 
Holt is entering her 22nd year as a women’s golf coach, and her sixth year coach­ing at Notre Dame. For the past three years she has been joined by her husband Tim Holt, who is currently the men’s and women’s golf coach just across the street at Holy Cross College. 
The story of how the two came together to coach at neighboring schools, though, begins well before their time in South Bend. 
Susan played golf in col­lege at Ohio State, and land­ed her first coaching position in 1990, just two years out of school. 
“I was head coach at Pur­due from 1990-1993, and Tim was a club pro at a town near Lafayette,” Susan said. “We met through a mutual friend, and we ended up get­ting married in 1993.” 
see HOLT/page 14 
SMC GOLF 
Belles try to catch conference rivals 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
With the regular season winding down, the Belles will attempt to gain ground on MIAA leaders Hope and Olivet when they play con­ference foe Albion at the Medalist Golf Club in Mar­shall, Mich. on Thursday. 
Senior Christine Brown said the team is familiar with the course and has high expectations for the match. 
“Most of the team has played the Medalist previ­ously because it is the home course of two MIAA teams,” she said. “We have always played well at the course and playing there is a great opportunity for us to do well.” 
The contest provides Saint Mary’s an important op­portunity to move up in the MIAA standings, where it is currently ranked third. 
“We are currently be­hind Hope and Olivet in the MIAA,” Brown said. “In this match, we hope to gain 
see MEDALIST/page 14 
SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s loses conference match, drops to 6-3 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles were just mo­ments from forcing overtime against a tough Calvin squad when a redirected shot drib­bled into the goal, handing Saint Mary’s a demoralizing 2-1 defeat. 
“The second goal came with 11 seconds left, so it was a bit of a heartbreaker,” Belles assistant coach Randy Rompola said. “The ball just kind of slotted through after a throw-in and was able to find the back of the net.” 
The last-minute goal was the second of the game for Calvin junior midfielder Francesca Smith, who also scored two goals Saturday when the Knights (4-5, 4-1 MIAA) shut out Olivet. Her first goal came in the 49th minute on a redirection from outside the six-yard box. Sophomores Paige Rindels and Laura Van Engen each earned an assist on the play. 
The win put the Knights in a tie for second place in the MIAA standings. 
Saint Mary’s (6-3, 2-3) tied up the match less than five minutes later when Belles sophomore defender Kerry Puckett gained possession of the ball and sent it up field to senior defender Michelle Marshall, who sent the pass sailing into the net. 
“We were able to get a number of players forward and put a lot of pressure on them,” Rompola said. “Then we were able to drop the ball back and finish it.” 
Although Marshall’s goal tied the game, coaches said it was freshman goal­keeper Chanler Rosenbaum who gained their attention. Rosenbaum made seven saves in the first half and four in 
see CALVIN/page 14 








