
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students foster awareness of illnesses 
Club hosts lectures, fundraisers to educate community about neglected tropical diseases 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Bagels, hot coffee and ed­ucational brochures about neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) welcomed students filing into DeBartolo Hall on Monday morning. 
ND Fighting NTDs is raising awareness this week about diseases that plague unde­veloped countries around the globe. 
Club president Emily Con­ron said these diseases do not receive enough attention because people are not edu­cated about their severity. 
“When people watch the news, they hear about dis­eases like AIDS and malaria, not schistosomiasis, and so they think that NTDs are ob­scure,” Conron said. “Actu­ally, NTDs affect more people than AIDS and malaria com­bined.” 
The most common NTDs include leprosy and tracho­ma, according to the World Health Organization. Ap­proximately 1.4 billion people in developing countries suffer from these illnesses, which could easily be treated in a wealthier country like the United States. 
“All seven NTDs that we focus on can be treated with safe and effective drugs that already exist and which cost about 50 cents per person,” Conron said. 
Lymphatic filariasis, a parasitic disease that causes grotesque swelling of the limbs, has already infected more than 120 million peo­ple worldwide, Conron said. Treatment is limited in some of the areas that need it most. 
“The problem is getting these drugs to the people in need,” Conron said. 
The club’s work on campus is a reminder of the global mission to eliminate NTDs, Conron said, and Notre Dame students can advocate for change. 
“If the global community makes NTDs a priority, then there is no reason why we wouldn’t be able to eliminate them,” Conrod said. “NTDs are the equivalent of a best students about ways to fight buy in global health.” NTDs. 



ND Fighting NTDs is put-“Our goal is to try to get ting on a series of events and lectures this week to educate see NTD/page 4 


SMC 5-K raises funds for cancer research 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
In the spirit of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the “Belles for Boobies” 5-K walk and run Sunday will raise awareness and money to support women’s health, senior Holly Dorson-King said. 
Dorson-King said over 100 participants already registered for the race, and she expects as many as 20 race-day entries. 
“My focus or goal is to raise awareness and inspire the campus to get involved in a cause that directly benefits women’s health through ener­getic enthusiasm and passion,” Dorson-King said. 
The Healthy Mind, Healthy Body Club will host the race. Dorson-King, the club’s trea­surer, said the race fits per­fectly with the club’s mission to educate students on how to create a healthy environment. 
“In learning about Healthy Mind, Healthy Body, I was en­ticed to seek collaboration in order to host a breast cancer race in October, Breast Cancer Awareness Month,” Dorson-King said. 
She said she was inspired 

see CANCER/page 5 


ROTC cadets travel for field training exercise 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
While most students spent the weekend relaxing or catching up on their homework, cadets in the Notre Dame Army ROTC battalion traveled to Fort Custer in Michigan for an intensive field training exercise (FTX). 
Sophomore cadet Pat Bedard said the three-day trip gave ROTC members the chance to apply their classroom lessons to field situations. 
“The battalion arrived at Fort Custer on Friday afternoon and then did a land navigation ex­ercise, which was basically five hours in the morning finding points using essential naviga­tional skills, teaching us how to use the wooded terrain to our advantage,” Bedard said. 
The cadets worked on situ­ational training exercises (STX) Saturday. The STX work in­cluded two hours of training for each of five exercises — recon­naissance, movement to con­tact, knocking out a bunker, improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and ambushes, Bedard said. 
“During the STX exercises, the seniors pretended to be the enemy,” Bedard said. “It was definitely a highlight of the weekend to get to shoot them with paintballs.” 

see ROTC/page 4 



Event showcases telescope 
By REGINA GILMOUR 
News Writer 

As darkness fell over cam­pus Monday night, sopho­more Patrick Whalen stared at a perfect image of the face of the moon. 
Whalen joined nearly 100 other students for Astrono­my Night on the roof of Nieu­wland Hall as they gazed through the recently refur­bished Napoleon Telescope. 
“I could see a clear image of the moon,” Whalen said. “It was cool because I could see all the craters in sharp detail.” 
Physics Professor Peter Garnavich said the Napo­leon Telescope was a gift to the University from Napo­leon in 1866. The telescope was originally located in the Main Building, but is now furbished in recent years. housed in the Nieuwland Ob-“It used to be in a roll-off servatory roof observatory, but it was 


Garnavich said the origi-falling apart,” Garnavich nal six-inch objective lens said. “We decided we needed remains on the telescope, but the exterior has been re-see TELESCOPE/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Juniors host Domecoming Week page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Foreign food finds page 8 u Men’s golf: senior spotlight page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, October 4, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU LOVE MOST ABOUT YOUR BODY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Megan Doyle Kelsey Manning Marisa Iati Matt DeFranks Tori Roeck Joe Wirth Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Marissa Frobes Photo Viewpoint Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 73 LOW 63 



Mike O’Brien  Chris Whelan  Alexa Wilson  Jenny Piccione  Paige Becker  Dante Garcia  
junior  junior  junior  junior  senior  junior  
Knott  Zahm  Lyons  Lewis  Ryan  Zahm  
“My ability to  “Either my back  “My (non)  “My biceps  “That I can  “My butt.”  
grow facial  acne or my six  running legs.”  because they  touch my  
hair.”  pack of rolls.”  resemble  nose with  my  
Hannah Ziegler’s  tongue.”  
beautiful  
biceps.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Wash. man banned from parks for digging up fossil 
PORTLAND, Ore. — A Longview, Wash., man ac­cused of digging up the skull of a hog-like animal that predated humans by 20 million years has been banned from national park lands for a year. 
The Oregonian reports that 48-year-old David Wix­on also must pay $4,500 in restitution for the misde­meanor crime of depreda­tion of government prop­erty. 
The fossil was from an oreodont, one of a number of stout, hooved, plant-eat­ing animals now extinct. 
Court records say an off-duty interpretive ranger saw Wixon using a rock hammer at a site at the John Day Fos­sil Beds National Monument in May 2007, leading to an investigation by federal agents. Authorities say they searched his house, and he returned the skull. 

Prosecutors say the pen­alties were imposed Friday. 
Trump casino offers plastic surgery prize 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — The latest casino promotion in Atlantic City gives new meaning to “going bust.” 
The Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort plans to give $25,000 worth of plastic surgery to a winner from a player’s card contest. The lucky one can mix and match surgeries including breast enhancements, tum­my tucks, liposuction and face lifts until the total hits $25,000. 
“We wanted to change the face of a typical casino promotion, and with this one we are literally doing it,” said Kathleen McSwee­ney, senior vice president of marketing for Trump Enter­tainment Resorts. 
“Many people have some­thing they want to change; a nip and tuck here, a lift there, but the cost of these procedures can be quite costly,” she said. “This pro­motion will allow the win­ner the opportunity to get the procedures of their choice.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
As a part of Neglected Tropical Diseases Aware­ness Week, there will be free Einstein Bros. bagels, brochures and coffee out­side DeBartolo Hall from 8 to 10 a.m. today, sponsored by ND Fighting Neglected Tropical Diseases. 
A symposium titled “Transitions to Democracy and the Arab Spring: Are There Lessons from the Latin American Experi­ence for the Middle East?” will take place in the Hes-burgh Center for Interna­tional Studies from 1 to 6 
p.m. today. 
As a part of the Entrepre­neurial  Insights Lecture Series, Fred Keller, Chair­man and CEO of Cascade Engineering, will give a talk titled “Entrepreneur­ship and Social Good” to­day at 5 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
In celebration of the Feast of St. Francis, Fr. Tom Doyle will say Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart tonight at 5:15 p.m. After Mass, professor Matt Ashley, Chair of the Depart­ment of Theology, will give a lecture titled “Sustain­ability and Catholic The­ology” tonight at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Hall of Science room 101. 
Four:7, the Catholic Fel­lowship group run by Ca­mus Ministry, will meet to­night from 8:30 to 10 p.m. in the Cavanaugh Chapel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY GAMEDAY 








Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Architect lectures on local design 
By CLAIRE BRADY 
News Writer 
Designing buildings is not about creating an artistic masterpiece, a renowned ar­chitect said during a Monday lecture in Bond Hall. 
Urban architect Joanna Alimanestianu said her work is instead about creating a place that people will love as part of their local commu­nity. 
“My mission is to create places for people, places peo­ple love, places where people can live quality lives,” Ali­manestianu said. 
“If a place isn’t lovable, it isn’t livable,” she said. “If a place needs to be livable, it has to be lovable.” 
An architect must focus a city’s atmosphere and cul­ture to design “authentical­ly local” developments, she said. 
“You have to understand the social fabric, the history, the people’s aspirations and history,” Alimanestianu said “You have to understand how people live there, work there, walk around there.” 
A design that emphasizes the local flavor will create a “contextually beautiful” place that will fit into its sur­roundings, Alimanestianu said. 
Successful designs also need to “bounce forward” to answer the needs of the fu­ture, she said. 
“You have to be open and present to what works and doesn’t, and what will stand the test of time,” Alimanes­tianu said. “You have to de­sign for today, but be flexible for the future.” 
Alimanestianu put these ideas into practice in her famous redesign of the Rue de Laecken development, an abandoned row of townhous­es in Belgium. During the project in the early 1990s, she hired seven young architects under 40-years-old to design nine unique townhouses. 
Realtors were skeptical, she said, but taking a risk with a new team paid off for the overall project. The homes sold immediately and attracted attention across Europe. 
“They wanted to do this, they were interested and all seven went on to become fa­mous, successful architects,” Alimanestianu said. 
Alimanestianu also de­signed a vibrant neighbor­hood in Guayaquil, Ecuador, in 2006. She said she worked to revive the area by remod­eling it according to tradi­tional styles. 
“It was one of the ugliest cities out there,” Alimanes­tianu said. “We produced the architecture guidelines by looking at what was truly Ec­uadorian, what people would feel comfortable in.” 

Although the Guayaquil project is not yet complete, Alimanestianu said residents have already expressed en­thusiasm about the changes. 
Alimanestianu said her work in both Europe and the United States places her at the intersection of two modern urban architecture movements — the American New Urbanists and the Euro­pean Urbanists. 
However, rather than iden­tifying with either move­ment, she said she prefers to remain independent and de­sign buildings according to residents’ needs rather than her own artistic inspiration. 
“I’m not interested in mak­ing a statement or calling at­tention,” Alimanestianu said. “I am not interested in mak­ing a work of art.” 
Contact Claire Brady at cbrady5@nd.edu 




Junior Class Council hosts Domecoming activities 


By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
This year’s annual Dome-coming Week, hosted by Ju­nior Class Council (JCC) will be “fun for a cause,” junior class president Kevin Doherty said. 
Monday’s Domecoming kickball game, Kick for Kans, launched a weeklong food drive sponsored by the junior class. Students who donated a non-perishable food item could play the game on North Quad. 
“We thought that giving back to the community would be a good way to give Do-prised that a big football school like Notre Dame didn’t already have homecoming.” 
The junior class will also host song-led adoration service at 9 p.m. Tuesday in the Ryan Hall Chapel. 
“The song-led adoration should be a really awesome event for people to relax, re­flect and listen to some great music,” Eckenrode said. “The JCC is really excited for all of the events this week.” 
Juniors can skate for free on the JACC ice rink Wednesday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m., and Doherty said students could 
mecoming a new dimension of ‘fun for a cause’ that would attract more interest from the student  “We were surprised that a big football school like Notre Dame didn’t already have homecoming.”  still register for a Thursday dodge ball tournament online or at the event. “The winning  
body and the lo­cal community,”  Kelsey Eckenrode  teams will be awarded Chipo- 
Doherty  said.  representative  tle gift cards and  
“We  will  have  Junior Class Council  bragging rights,”  


collection boxes available at all of the events this week.” 
Doherty said the week offers a chance to bring the junior class and other members of the student body together. 
“Its purpose is to unite stu­dents in a week of fun events and activities on campus,” Doherty said. “Our hope is that Domecoming will continue to grow and involve more student groups, and be carried on as a tradition for years to come.” 
The junior class will also sell Class of 2013 “bro tanks” throughout the week. Doherty said an initial order of the tanks sold out almost immedi­ately. 
“We sold out within a few hours during our first sale in the dining halls,” Doherty said. “We ordered a little over 200 new tanks and are hop­ing these will sell out over the course of the week.” 
JCC representative Kelsey Eckenrode said Domecoming is Notre Dame’s version of home­coming at other schools. 
“We wanted to give the stu­dents something similar,” Eck­enrode said. “We were sur-Doherty said. 
The second an­
nual Domecoming 
Dance on Friday 
will end the week 
with music and 
dancing under a tent on South Quad, as well as free food from Chick-fil-A, Eck­enrode said. 
“We’re happy that the dance is outdoors this year since the weather is supposed to be great on Friday,” Eckenrode said. 
The junior class will host all the Domecoming events this week, Doherty said, but the activities are open to all stu­dents. 
“While the focus is on the ju­nior class, we welcome all stu­dents to our events this week,” he said. “The only exception is the Domecoming Dance, which SAO classifies as a junior class dance, but non-juniors are welcome to attend as long as they accompany a junior. Our goal is to involve as many stu­dents on campus as possible in Domecoming Week.” 
Further information about Domecoming events can be found on the Domecoming 2011 Facebook page. 

Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, October 4, 2011 


ROTC 
continued from page 1 
The group practiced drills in the dark Friday night. 
Freshman cadet Colin O’Shea said this exercise, called night-land navigation, was the most difficult task for the students. 
“Saturday’s night land navi­gation was the hardest part of the weekend,” O’Shea said. “During the day, land naviga­tion was still hard because it was my second time doing it.  I did pretty well, but being alone at night in the forest, in the dark, was extremely challeng­ing.” 
Junior cadet Kathleen Frechette led her group through a movement-to-contact exer­cise. 
“The seniors were playing the enemy, and we were about 300 meters away,” Frechette said. “As the leader, I had to figure out what the mission was, how we’re going to conduct that. We’d move from where we were to try to attack the enemy. It was a practical application of what we’ve learned in class.” 
Battalion commander Josh Sandler said he and other se­niors organized the FTX trip and acted as the enemy in each of the training exercises. 
Each junior cadet led a squad of sophomores and freshmen through the exercises. Sandler said the exercise is especially helpful for junior cadets be­cause next year they will spend one month in a required Leader Development and Assessment Course (LDAC). 
The course will test their leadership abilities, physical fit­ness and other useful skills. 
“[This weekend was] like a mini LDAC,” Sandler said. “It’s trying to take 30 days worth of training and evaluations and cram them into one weekend.” 
Sandler said he and the other seniors added exercises in gar­rison leadership, or planning for everyday needs for the men and women under a leader’s com­mand, to this year’s FTX. Squad leaders now need to manage the day-to-day concerns of their group while everyone lives in close quarters. 
“Now with the addition of garrison leadership … that’s 24 hours that you need to be on your game,” Sandler said. “It’s meant to be the addition of a huge amount of stress … While our previous FTXs have been good, they’ve been incomplete without this garrison leader­ship piece. 
“My role as a [senior cadet and battalion commander] is to train [the younger cadets] to be better prepared than I was, and I feel that we have accom­plished this.” 
Junior cadet Ted Spinelli said he was glad the weekend exer­cise would prepare him for the LDAC in the summer. 
“The [Leader Development and Assessment Course] is the apex of ROTC, the step-ping-stone where a very large amount of our total perfor­mance in ROTC is established,” Spinelli said. 


The LDAC determines the number of placement options in the Army for the senior cadets after graduation, Spinelli said. 
“For me the most helpful part of the weekend was executing a patrol mission on Sunday, and developing a plan to execute that mission that was executed on the larger patrol or platoon-size scale,” Spinelli said. “The longer time allotment and more complex objective made this a more involved exercise, more similar to what we would be do­ing as officers in the army after school.” 

Sandler said that while the weekend was challenging, the physical discomfort,” Sandler discomfort. Teaching decision cadets in his battalion learned said. “They don’t get to eat or making under less-than-ideal important lessons for their sleep very much, and it’s very conditions is how the Army pre-ROTC training during the FTX cold, wet and windy.  That is pares us to be leaders.” weekend. a constant part of this train­
“The most [difficult] part of ing. But this is forcing them to Contact Nicole Michels at                the weekend was the constant be agile thinkers despite this nmichels@nd.edu 

To raise awareness, Five 
NTD 
Guys at Eddy Street Com­mons will donate 15 percent continued from page 1 of Wednesday’s profits from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m. to NTD chari­people talking about NTDs ties. who might not have known Fundraisers around cam-or cared about them before,” pus this week will include a Conron said. dessert sale in the LaFortune 




*Lease must be signed by December 9, 2011 
• 
Townhomes & Houses 

• 
Student neighborhoods 

• 
Security & ADT systems 


• Washers and dryers 
• Dishwashers 
• Lawn service • 2 -6 bedrooms 
Locally owned 
. . 
and managed 
Call today for best selection 

(574)234-2436 
www.kramerhouses.com 




Telescope 
continued from page 1 
a new dome to protect the Na­poleon Telescope.” 
A new power dome covers the outside of telescope in Nieuwland, Garnavich said. 
“Because of water damage, the physics shop cleaned up the rust and made sure all the parts were work­ing,” he said. 
field showed students an im­age of a supernova, or a re­cently exploded star, on his computer. 
“This supernova is about 25 million light years away,” he said. “It exploded about five weeks ago.” 
Littlefield said he studied astronomy before attending law school, and he is now a teaching assistant for Intro­duction to Astronomy. The superno­va is located in the M101 galaxy, a spi-
S t u de n t s at Astron­omy Night could gaze at the moon  “Because of water damage, the physics shop cleaned up the rust and made sure all the parts were working.”  ral galaxy not unlike the Milky Way. “This par- 
through the  ticular  su­ 
t ele s c op e  Peter Garnavich  p er no v a  
in the Nieu­wland Ob- professor of physics  was part of a star not  
s e r v a t o r y,  much  bigger  
but  oth­ than  Earth,”  
ers  stared  he  said.  “It  
at  its  face  kept  pulling  
from  sev­ matter off a  
eral  small- smaller  star  

er telescopes on North Quad until it got so heavy it finally near Stonehenge. exploded. The supernova is 
Seniors Maureen Choman expanding at about 30 million and Elizabeth Flood said they miles an hour.” were excited to catch a more Junior Bailey Moser, a phys-detailed glimpse of the night ics lab assistant, said stu­sky. dents could access telescopes 
“We ran from Lewis,” Flood at other times of the year as said. well. 
Choman said the girls had “They are always set up planned to see the telescope in the observatory,” he said. before they graduate. “Anyone can come up after 
“They have it every year, sundown on a clear night.” and it’s on our bucket list,” Choman said. Contact Regina Gilmour at 
Law student Colin Little-rgilmour@nd.edu 
Student Center on Thursday, a face-painting booth on Irish Green on Friday and a collec­tion at all Masses on Sunday. 
“Donations are important, but outreach is key,” Conron said. “Contact your govern­ment representatives, advo­cate to pharmaceutical com­panies and spread the word however you can.” 
Conron said the club wants to engage the student body in new ways during NTD Aware­ness Week. 
“NTDs are an issue that we take very seriously,” Conron said, “But as college students, we recognize that in order for people our age to become fully invested in a cause, they need to be able to approach it in creative and unforeseen ways.” 

Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 





Cancer 
continued from page 1 
to organize the race after her summer externship experi­ence. 
“I spent this past summer learning as a nursing extern at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan and working with oncology pa­tients,” Dorson-King said. “It was this experience that fur­thered my enthusiasm to not only help raise awareness of breast cancer, but to inspire in [Saint Mary’s] women a passion to fight for a phenomenal cause that touches so many lives not only in this country, but in the [Saint Mary’s] community.” 
The “Save the Tatas” cam­paign also inspired Dorson-King to come up with the name “Belles for Boobies.” 
“I love the ‘Save the Tatas’ campaign, but that’s already been used and I wanted to con-
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
nect [the name] to Saint Mary’s, so I used Belles and boobies instead of tatas,” Dorson-King said. “But I didn’t want to cross any lines, so I went right to [Vice-President of Student Af­fairs] Karen Johnson and asked her to approve the name.” 
The race has also inspired Saint Mary’s graduates to get involved. 
“There have been some alum­nae that contacted me about coming and participating,” she said. “There even might be a SMC alumna and breast cancer survivor that will speak at the start of the race.” 
The track for the Belles for Boobies 5-K will follow a dou­ble loop around Saint Mary’s campus. 
The registration fee for the race is $5. Funds raised by the event will support the Susan 
G. Komen Foundation, Dorson-King said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 




Michigan professor discusses music, culture 

By ABIGAIL FORNEY 
News Writer 
The lyrics to country artist Gretchen Wilson’s song “Red­neck Woman” could be a solu­tion to modern tension between gender and class, a University of Michigan professor said during a guest lecture Monday. 
Nadine Hubbs, associate pro­fessor of women’s studies and music at the University of Michi­gan, spoke at Saint Mary’s about popular music’s role in culture and used female country sing­ers to demonstrate issues facing women, particularly those who come from the lower class. 
Wilson, who grew up in a trailer park and comes from a working class family, sends a very specific message to her lis­teners with the song, Hubb said. 
“In the song where she defines herself and her position in soci­ety, she says that being who she is, is cool, and being that kind of person has not always been cool.” she said. 
Hubbs said women in work-ing-class households are ex­pected to cultivate “middle­class manners” in their families, but Wilson’s song is a good ex­ample for working-class women struggling to assert themselves against negative stereotypes. 
She said the singer has a vi­sion of women being proud of where they come from, which shows how popular music can be used as a statement about class misconceptions that often victimize women. 
“I look at this song ‘Redneck Woman’ as a solution or a de­tour around that tough pre­dicament [between gender and class,]” Hubbs said. “It’s quite a trick to pull off.” 

Contact Abigail Forney at                   aforne02@saintmarys.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, October 4, 2011 


INSIDE COLUMN 


‘Ware scare 
At the beginning of last summer, as I went to pick up the subletting forms from the recently-graduated student whose apartment I’d be renting, I had a stark re­alization. It came via ominous warning. 
“Enjoy your fake adulthood while it lasts,” he said. The words landed in my stomach with a thud. 
I had never known pseudo-adulthood was a thing but it totally makes sense. I was working on cam­pus and living in an apartment, but could still cling for comfort to my identity as a student. I was freaked out by what our school morphed into during the summer (it’s overrun with children), but could still look forward to returning to it in the fall. Although I hated how old this term made me feel, I definitely saw the benefits of being a pseudo-adult. 
That is, until I tried to grocery shop. 
Prior to this summer, I viewed grocer­ies as an inexhaustible and self-replen­ishing resource. Groceries were just always there, and I never had to concern myself with their origin. 
Grocery shopping by yourself, for yourself is what I see as a hallmark of adulthood. Having to figure out what to buy, scouring the store for it and, worst of all, paying for it were the most unpleas­ant parts of my summer. 
This is mostly because I am mind­blowingly bad at grocery shopping. 
I would always clumsily maneuver an unnecessarily large cart, narrowly avoiding towering stacks of cereal boxes and canned vegetables. I suspect they rearranged the entire store between my trips, because I would get hopelessly lost while looking for the same items each time. Without fail, I would spend at least double what I had planned to. 
This is primarily because I’m a huge sucker for advertising. Put a flashy sign up for something and odds are I’ll buy it. Four boxes of popsicles for $5? Sign me up. Buy one, get one free mac and cheese? Put it on my tab. 
Not only did this habit lead to me need­lessly acquiring things, but it also made the grocery store my own personal time-vortex. I would spend far too long brows­ing the aisles, looking for sweet deals on things I would probably never consume. 
What I completely overlooked is how much you have to buy before you can even buy actual food. I spent $50 in my first trip and realized I had only bought food’s prerequisites. As much as I tried, I couldn’t live off cooking spray, napkins, plastic silverware and ranch dressing alone. 
The final slap in the face came as I checked out. With my purchases, I earned points, which I could exchange for Tupperware containers. If there’s any­thing that can simultaneously threaten your masculinity and make you feel old, it’s the idea of getting new Tupperware containers from your purchases at the grocery store. 
As I lugged my groceries back to my apartment after one particularly trouble­some excursion, I made a mental list of all the things I forgot to buy and dug through the bags for my box of limited edition Fruit Roll-Ups. 
In a moment of clarity, I breathed a sigh of relief. Despite the grocery shop­ping and the terrifying prospect of Tupperware, I was nowhere near adult­hood. 
Contact Troy Mathew at      tmathew2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Separate (but equal?) 
Over this past summer, the Catholic University of America announced that it was abandoning coed student hous­ing and reverting to a model of single-sex residences beginning with the class 
of 2015. In an edito­ 
rial piece published  Ryan Williams  
in The Wall Street  
 
Journal, university  freethoughts  
President John Gar­ 

vey argued that the change would help reduce the prevalence of binge drink­ing among undergraduates, and would also prevent further development of a “hook-up culture” on campus. 
Garvey graduated from the Univer­sity of Notre Dame in 1970 and served as a professor in the Law School from 1994 to 1999, so it is not surprising that he waxes nostalgic for the single-sex dorms and parietal regulations that we are so fond of here. 
What is a bit more surprising is that he believes his strategy to reduce binge drinking and the number of casual hook-ups will actually work. As anyone at Notre Dame can attest, these two is­sues do not magically disappear merely with the presence of single-sex dorms, as they are certainly present here on our own campus. 
Moreover, a convincing argument can be made that in this day and age, universities no longer have the right to meddle in the personal lives of their students, and thus must be wary of instituting policies designed to change student behavior. 
A more disturbing potential conse­quence of the switch to gender-segre­gated housing has been highlighted 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

by George Washington University law professor John Banzhaf, who has filed a complaint against Catholic Univer­sity on the grounds that the new policy violates Washington D.C.’s 1997 Human Rights Act, which prohibits discrimina­tion in housing and education on the basis of numerous categories, including gender. 
Banzhaf argued that separating students into male and female dorms is no more justifiable than placing all Jewish students into one dorm and all Muslims into another, or establishing distinct calculus courses for men and for women. The university countered by noting that the Human Rights Act only forbids a school from conditioning the use of facilities for a discriminatory reason, and because the new housing policy treats both sexes equally, there is no discrimination occurring and thus no violation of the law. 
Whatever your position on the validi­ty of these arguments may be, they cer­tainly raise important questions about our own housing situation here at Notre Dame. Like Catholic University, Notre Dame maintains a single-sex housing policy that strives to achieve equality for all students. In practice however, this standard often falls short of its stated goals. To see evidence of this, one merely has to take a walk around Notre Dame on a Friday or Saturday night and observe that all the parties being held on campus are taking place exclusively in male dorms. 
The reason for this is the gross dis­parity between how men and women are treated in their own residence halls. In most male dorms, parties with loud music and alcohol are generally allowed so long as they remain within reasonable levels of control. The Uni­versity has wisely concluded that col­lege students will party regardless of whether there are rules against it, and so it has determined to try and keep the partying on campus where it can better look after the safety and well-being of its students.
 In female dorms, however, there is no such tolerance for this behavior, and any student attempting to host a party with loud music and free-flowing alcohol would quickly find herself facing consequences far more severe than anything experienced by her male counterparts. It is unclear whether the rectors and resident assistants in female dorms are simply significantly stricter, or rather if there is a concerted effort by the University to limit the partying to male residence halls, thus reducing the number of dorms requir­ing monitoring on any given night. 
Either way, the end result is that the women of Notre Dame are increasingly treated like second-class citizens, a reality that hardly aligns with the mis­sion and ideology of this University. Its time for us as a community to reopen the discussion on single-sex housing and work together to eradicate dis­crimination at Notre Dame. 
Ryan Williams is a junior. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night.” 
Edgar Allan Poe 
U.S. author 



WEEKLY POLL 
Hip-hop night at Legends is ... 
The best part of my weekend A waste of time Great for people-watching Where I display my killer moves 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



Europe’s double conundrum 
There seems to be a lot of good news coming out of Europe in the past couple of days. First, Greece recently passed a new string of austerity measures, most notably a new property tax, aimed at closing its budget deficit. This will William Miller likely satisfy the troika, composed Guest of the International Columnist Monetary Fund, European Central Bank and European Union, which administers the bailouts given to Greece. As a result, Greece will likely receive the next part of its bailout package, about $8 billion, which will keep the Greek government solvent until December. 
Second, the German parliament recently passed the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) with an over­whelming majority. The fund will be used to buy the bonds of distressed coun­tries (lowering their borrowing costs), to give loans to countries that can’t borrow from the markets at reasonable rates and to recapitalize European banks if necessary. 
Unfortunately, this news is too little, too late. Europe is stuck in an impos­sible cycle. Even as the PIIGS (Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain) try to cut spending to get their deficits under control, a recession appears to be setting in across the continent. This recession will hurt economic growth, lowering the amount of money that European govern­ments collect from taxes and reducing Germany and France’s willingness to continue bailing out other governments. It also appears unlikely that Greece will be able to make good on its debts, which would unnerve markets and lead to trouble for Italy and Spain. Long story short: Europe is in for trouble. 
Let’s look at this situation a little more closely. The European recovery, which has been powered by Germany’s remark­able economic run, is losing steam. Con­sumer spending is falling in Germany, economic growth has come to a standstill in France and the Eurozone as a whole is only projected to grow by 0.3 percent in the second quarter. This is especially bad for countries like Italy and Spain, which are cutting government spending to reign in deficits. The more that government spending is cut, the slower the economy will grow in the short run. As a result, the government will take in less revenue, leading to a pernicious cycle in which deficits become more and more difficult to reign in. 
Meanwhile, Greece, the focal point of this entire crisis, is not going to get any better. Greek government debt as a per­centage of GDP now stands at 150 per­cent, which is actually higher than when Greece got bailed out. This is because its GDP has shrunken dramatically in the face of lower government spending. 

What’s more, the ruling Greek Social­ist party is struggling to enforce even the moderate initial cuts demanded by the troika. This does not bode well for the future, especially when the government is forced to consider even more painful cuts. This includes laying off government workers, which is actually banned by Greece’s constitution except in extraordi­nary circumstances. 
Current austerity measures have already elicited a tremendous (and at times, violent) response from public labor unions and large elements of Greek soci­ety. Future responses will only increase, making the situation more and more dif­ficult for the Greek government. 
What, then, will be the outcome of the Eurozone crisis? While the specific an­swer is hard to predict, it seems almost a foregone conclusion that Greece will either default on its debt or force inves­tors to take haircuts (e.g. only receive a certain percentage, say 40 percent, of what they were originally promised) on their investments. The distinction be­tween these two is of critical importance. European banks are highly exposed to the Greek crisis, holding tens of billions of dollars worth of Greek debt. If these banks were forced to take a total loss on these loans, it is likely that they would need to be recapitalized, which would be a highly expensive process akin to the TARP program initiated here in the United States. What’s more, a disorderly default would unnerve financial markets, perhaps making it necessary to bail out Italy and Spain. These countries, which have debts in the trillions, not billions, may be beyond the capacity of Europe to save. 
Pain is coming for Europe regardless of what happens. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and possibly Italy and Spain are in for years of painful cuts in spending and slow economic growth. Germany and France will continue to face the question of how much they should help out other countries, even as their own economies begin to suffer. The answer to this ques­tion will determine whether or not the European Union stays together. The most likely outcome will be a hybrid. The Eu­ropean Union will continue to exist, but it is unlikely that the process of creating a “United States of Europe” will continue much further. 
William Miller is a sophomore majoring in Arabic and political science. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Something worth fighting for 
Yesterday I spent $5.95 on a Pizza Pollo at Recker’s. It tasted like happiness, as always. It also cost the same as about 12 human lives. 
Let me explain. 
This week is ND Fighting NTDs Awareness Week. NTDs are Neglected Tropical Diseases, a collection of chronic, preventable diseases that plague over 1.4 billion people worldwide. That’s 20 percent of the global population. All of these diseases can be treated or prevented for just 50 cents per person per year. 
NTDs are chronic parasitic illnesses. They cause unimag­inable suffering: malnutrition, respiratory illness, debili­tating, painful blindness, paralyzing swelling of the limbs, mental retardation — the works. The medicines to treat NTDs have been developed and donated by major pharma­ceutical companies, but we have no way of physically get­ting them to the people who so desperately need help. 
That’s why ND Fighting NTDs is launching a major initiative around campus this week to raise money and awareness. Here’s a quick overview of the events you don’t want to miss: free Einstein bagels in front of Debartolo on Monday and Tuesday, a documentary screening on South Quad Monday evening, a faculty panel to discuss various solutions to global health problems on Tuesday in Geddes Auditorium and a Dirt Cup Dessert Sale in Lafortune on Thursday. 
If you are starting to feel really guilty about your latest Starbucks coffee, don’t. I don’t feel guilty about my pizza, but I will go to Five Guys on Wednesday evening after 7 p.m., because 15 percent of all proceeds will be donated to fight NTDs. And I will indulge in a Dessert Cup on Thursday (buy one with FlexPoints!) to help the cause. And yeah, for the chocolate, too. 
But really, why should you care? Well, these diseases are major humanitarian problems. Their symptoms collectively slow down economies, prevent children from reaching their full mental capacity and imprison entire populations in a cycle of pain, poverty and illness. This is a truly social is­sue, so I hope I see you at our events. NTDs are fixable, and as a proud member of the Fighting Irish community, I will happily fight to end the neglect. So should you. 
Eileen Lynch 
junior Ryan Hall Oct. 2 


Science and God 
The Sept. 30 editorial (“Health insurance issue calls Notre Dame’s identity into question”) sug­gests a conflict exists between Notre Dame’s identity as a Catholic and a scientific research uni­versity.  The editorial creates a false dichotomy between science and Catholicism.  The inscrip­tion, paraphrased from Ecclesiastes 3, on Nieuwland Science Hall says, “All things God made are good and each of them serves its turn.”  If God created the universe, scientifically exploring it can help us understand God’s work and, in turn, God Himself. 
Notre Dame can be a research university and not blindly accept any recommendation of the “premier scientific researchers” the editorial mentions.  Can there not be more than one view in the scientific world? 
Where would we be with only science or only religion?  Both have made mistakes.  After all, clerics condemned Galileo and scientists (not so long ago) declared the size and shape of one’s head determines intelligence. 
Sam Bellafiore 
freshman Stanford Hall Oct. 3 


“Grinding” my gears 
Reading Dr. Moss’ article “Hip-hop night education” (Sept. 30) made me think (which, if you ask my friends, is something I do not do nearly as much as I should). 
I’ve never really thought of grinding as a social interaction. I mean, it seems obvious, but I’d always seen the party or the dance or Hip Hop Night itself as the social interaction, and grinding just as something that follows naturally from it. And Dr. Moss is right, it’s easy; it’s the easiest dance move ever. It’s the most physically intimate dance there is, but there’s no real emotion to it. You just press yourself up against your partner’s body and sway to the beat of the song. Until you end up making out with your partner (which is usually the endgame for both students), you can’t even see their eyes. 
That’s why it’s popular — there’s no need to get to really know the person if it’s just some ran­dom drunk kid at Hip Hop or Fever, no need to wrap yourself up in who your partner really is, in all their perfections and imperfections. You just fly past all those messy complexities that come along with it and just go straight to physical satisfaction. 
It’s cheating. It’s skipping the best parts — those small moments, those quick glances, those subtle touches and I really don’t want to miss any of that. I want to get to know the girl I’m interested in, and I want her to feel the same way. That sounds a lot more appealing to me than some drunken make-out session, surrounded by hundreds of other students I barely know, with someone I may not talk to again. 
When my friends ask me if I’m planning on “getting some” when we go out, I kind of cringe. Not because it wouldn’t be physically satisfying, but because I want something a little deeper than that. I’m looking for something a bit more meaningful than a one-night relationship, and I wish I had realized that sooner. The freshmen at Hip Hop Night will probably come to realize it too, eventually. 
Okay, good talk. 
Peter Teneriello 
senior off campus Oct. 3 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, October 4, 2011 

After a nostalgic trip to the movie theater to see “The Lion King 3D” this weekend, a few friends and I discussed and debated the age-old question of where to grab dinner. Many of you might scoff at this, 
believing that the only places worth going to near school are Taco Bell and Perkins. I, however, am on a quest to dispel that myth and find the best foreign food places in South Bend. 

Naturally, our  
first option for this  Ankur Chawla  
expedition into  
the wide world of  Scene Writer  
food was Outback  
Steakhouse. As a  

practicing Hindu, it was not my first choice. The few of us still traumatized from seeing hyenas eat zebra carcass­es in “The Lion King” walked to the strip mall behind Outback and found the hidden Mexican restaurant and at­tached supermarket, Puerto Vallarta. 
At first, we seemed extremely out of place in the traditionally decorated restaurant. The only customers were of Hispanic descent. However, the moment we sat down, we felt at home. The service was great (I don’t say that about every restaurant) and a waitress was always ready to bring us another batch of warm chips and surprisingly 

good salsa. Despite being on the thin­ner side, the salsa actually had a nice spicy kick. 
The menu had more options than you could imagine, and more than you’d expect from a relatively small restaurant in northern Indiana. Puerto Vallarta has an extensive lunch menu available every day until 3 p.m. and daily drink specials for those over 21. 

I elected to get a Jarrito’s Mexican soda, which was delicious and pine­apple flavored, while others ordered old-fashioned glass-bottled Pepsis and Fantas. 
As for the meal itself, the portion siz­es were huge and, yes, I finished every last bite on my plate. I ordered the Val­larta Chimichanga, which contained a pair of deep fried chicken, spinach and white cheesy burritos, a side of refried beans and Mexican rice. Though it was delicious, I recommend the fajita bur­rito one of my friends bought which, honestly, puts Chipotle to shame. For those of you who like a plain cheese quesadilla, this place is not for you. Everything from the guacamole to the side order of rice packs strong flavor and an authentic feel. 
At the end of the meal, everyone was served a complimentary cinnamon sugar fried tortilla with a caramel drizzle and dollop of whipped cream. It was the cherry on top, pun intended. 
The biggest complaint I had about the meal was that I was too ridicu­lously full afterward to order more to bring home. 
If you couldn’t tell by now, I am a huge fan of Puerto Vallarta, and recommend a visit if you’re looking for a relatively inexpensive, yet delicious meal. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at                      achawla@nd.edu if you’d like to join him on his next quest for quality foreign foods in the area. Seriously, do it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


“Pan Am” 
Intrigue and glamour rule in ABC’s new series about stewardesses in the early 1960s. Some may be hesitant about its similarity to “Mad Men,” but “Pan Am” provides just enough difference to turn it into a fantastic series in its own right. The beautiful scenery of Paris and London in the first two episodes invokes wanderlust in even the stern­est homebodies. The backdrop of the most major airline of the time is the perfect setting for a spy drama to ensue. It situates the series in a more political context instead of only paying superficial attention to the aesthetic of the 1960s. Airs Sundays at 10 p.m. on ABC. 


“The Rachel Zoe Project” 
Zoe-M-G! This show is ba-na-nas. Even though “The Rachel Zoe Project” is several seasons in the making, the current fourth season is mah-jor. While pregnant, Rachel is so much less high stress than normal and it’s truly refreshing to see her so happy after a tumultu­ous third season between her and husband Roger. The addition of the gorgeous Jeremiah is perfect. The series showcases Rachel’s first collection as a designer and the unbelievable ten look spectacular that was Anne Hathaway at the Oscars. It may not be new but it’s definitely worth watching, even if fan favorite Brad Goreski is out of the picture. Airs Tuesdays at 9 p.m. on Bravo. 


“Up All Night” 
The new NBC show about a couple, played by Christina Applegate and Will Arnett, and their new baby manages to avoid all of the alien­ating pitfalls of many shows about parenthood. It’s a show that remains funny whether you’ve had a child or not. Applegate and Arnett have fantastic chemistry and play off each other perfectly, and “Brides­maids” star Maya Rudolph adds some just-over-the-top-enough humor for a perfect blend of comedy and charm. Airs Wednesdays at 8 p.m. on NBC. 


“Archer” 
Best described as “Arrested Development” meets “James Bond,” “Archer” walks the line of absurdly immature and incredibly clever. Set it a world where the Soviet Union still exists, “Archer” makes use of anachronisms, obscenity, Oedipal complexes and explosions, many explosions, to explore the spy world in the fastest paced animated comedy on TV. Airs Wednesdays at 10 p.m. on FX. 


“Revenge” 
There’s nothing better than revenge, except maybe watching the chilling story of someone else exacting bloody revenge. ABC’s new drama “Revenge,” starring Madeleine Stowe (“Last of the Mohicans”) and Emily VanCamp (“Everwood”), affords viewers just that oppor­tunity. Billed as an adaptation of “The Count of Monte Cristo,” the thriller follows the story of Emily Thorne (VanCamp) as she seeks retribution for the arrest of her father.  Set in the beautiful landscape of the Hamptons, “Revenge” keeps you on the edge of your seat and al­ways coming back to see what calculated move Emily will make next. Airs Wednesdays at 10 p.m. on ABC. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 4, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 




Disastrous Dolphins 
If you took a potty-training baby, put it in one of those “Hoarders” houses and threw a raging party before crashing a Hummer into a Civic in the d r iveway, you would have a mess. 
And then you have the Miami Dol­phins. 
Fresh off a 26-16 loss in San Di­ego, Miami has now dropp ed its opening four games and seven in a row dating back to last season. The Dol­phins have not won more than two consecutive games since 2008, when they won the AFC East title in coach Tony Spara­no’s first year. 
2008 was a strange year for the Dolphins. They came off a 1-15 season, welcomed a new coach, faced an easy schedule and conditioned a new veteran quarterback. 
The Phins finished 11-5, win­ning seven games by less than seven points before bowing out in the first round of the playoffs to Baltimore. A playoff sea­son should always be commended He is too busy tracking down celebrity part owners (like Gloria Estefan and the Wil­liams sisters), putting a night club in Sun Life Stadium and “enhancing the fan experi­ence” to truly worry about his on-the-field product. 

Not only did the Dolphins blatantly look for a new coach, but they also searched for a replacement to take over Chad Henne’s quarterbacking duties. The big prize? Kyle Orton, of zero postseason starts. When you want Orton to be your top quarterback, you are in trouble (see: Bron­cos, Denver, 2010). 
But still, management tried and tried and tried to land Orton and fans at training camp chanted for him. How­ever, Miami could not even snag a quarterback with just one season and a completion percentage over 60. 
Even worse is that Henne was injured during the loss to the Chargers, leaving Mi­ami with Matt Moore as its primary quarterback. But maybe help is on the way. 
The Phins with no wins look like big contenders in the Suck for Luck 2012 campaign. One of few 0-4 teams remaining, Miami is in a prime position to grab the number one overall pick, presumably St anford 

but that sea-The Phins with no quarter-son was a bit wins look like the big back An-
fluky, as the drew Luck. 
contenders in the Suck 
past couple Mia mi’s
for Luck 2012 campaign.
 have last 
years shown. 
Why do I bring up the one good sea­son in recent Dolphins history? Because it is Sparano’s crown­ing achievement in an other­wise underwhelming tenure. 
Dolphins majority owner Ste­phen Ross agrees — but maybe not whole-heartedly. In Janu­ary, Ross traveled to California to try to woo former Stanford coach Jim Harbaugh to replace Sparano at Miami. Ross’ re­cruiting pitch was ultimately not good enough (Harbaugh now coaches the 49ers), or pri­vate enough. 
The West coast trip was front page news on the Mi­ami Herald, a lead story on SportsCenter and a poorly kept secret. Whispers began to am­plify and rumors continued to swirl. But Sparano survived that swell. Whether or not he survives the possible oncom­ing tidal wave, however, is yet to be seen. 
Not like Ross cares, either. 
 top 
pick, offen­
sive tackle 
Jake Long, 
has blos­somed into a Pro Bowler. Dolphins fans can only hope Luck can do the same. 
If you took an embattled, overmatched coach, put him in a franchise nearly 40 years removed from their last championship with a dis­connected owner, shopped around for a new coach and new quarterback before los­ing four straight games to open the season, you have a disaster. Welcome to the Mi­ami Dolphins franchise. 
At least part owners Jenni­fer Lopez and Marc Anthony are still together. Oh, wait, looks like the Dolphins really are a wreck. 
Contact  Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Cowboys to recoup during bye week 
Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas — So much for Tony Romo and the Dallas Cowboys getting extra time to savor something good. 
Instead of a three-game win­ning streak, Dallas (2-2) began its bye week — and now excru­ciating extra time before play­ing again — after the biggest collapse in the team’s 52-sea­son history with coach Jason Garrett again having to defend his quarterback after another turnover-plagued finish. 
“Certainly, Tony has had a lot of really good games for us. He’s had some games where things haven’t gone well also. In recent weeks, I think we’ve seen each of those kinds of games,” Garrett said Monday. 
“Even the best ones have games that end like this. Tony will learn from this. He goes about it the right way, and we will be better as a football team because of this.” 
The worrisome part for the Cowboys (2-2) has to be how the latest meltdown, blowing a 24-point lead over the last 25 minutes in a 34-30 loss to Detroit, is eerily similar to how the season began. 
In the season-opening loss at the New York Jets, Romo had an interception and lost a fum­ble at the 3 as Dallas blew a 14-point fourth-quarter lead to lose for the first time in fran­chise history. 
Against Detroit on Sunday, the Cowboys led 27-3 after Romo threw his third touch­down early in the third quar­ter. He followed with three interceptions, the first two returned for touchdowns and the third setting up the Lions’ game-winning score with 1:39 left. 
“Certainly the thing that we’ll continue to emphasize to our football team, and he’s a big part of that, is playing winning football and doing the things that help you win games, and the last couple of weeks he’s done those things,” Garrett said. 
“In this game against Detroit and the earlier game against the Jets he didn’t do those things. Hopefully, he’ll learn from those experiences.” 
A week after the loss to the Jets, Romo threw for 201 yards in the fourth quarter and over­time of a win at San Francisco despite suffering a fractured rib and punctured lung early in the game 
The Cowboys then had an 18-16 win over NFC East rival Washington, the first time
 in 10 years they won without scoring a touchdown. 
Before losing to the unde­feated Lions (4-0), the biggest lead blown by the Cowboys in a loss was against Washington on Nov. 28, 1965, when they had a 21-0 lead in the second quarter and lost 34-31. That was exactly four months be­fore Garrett was born, and during the franchise’s sixth season before Dallas had ever been in a playoff game. 
Players had their sched­uled day off Monday, then will practice Tuesday and Wednesday before getting a four-day weekend. Their next game is Oct. 16 at New Eng­land. 
“You can’t forget about this. You want to remember these types of losses. This is some­thing you definitely want to learn from,” linebacker An­thony Spencer said after the game. 
“We have to realize we were up and we didn’t fin­ish the game. We know that this can’t keep happening throughout the season and if it does we’re going to be the mediocre team that we don’t want to be.” 
Tight end Jason Witten de­scribed the loss as “frustrat­ing” and “disappointing.” He said the team will stay to­gether and believe in each other with three-fourths of the regular season still left to play. 
Even after missing a chance to be 3-1, the Cowboys have one more win than at this point last season. They were 1-7 and lost Romo to a bro­ken collarbone before Wade Phillips was fired and Garrett promoted. 
“We must and we will look ahead,” owner Jerry Jones said after the game. 
“We know how for it to be worse than this. We’ve expe­rienced it, a lot of this same group has experienced it. So we’ll get in here, take our bye, get well and come back and try to do something very special.” 
There was an awkward moment on the sideline Sun­day between Jones and Romo after Detroit scored its go-ahead touchdown. 
A short video clip shows Jones patting Romo on the shoulder pads and then reach­ing for the quarterback’s jer­sey while apparently offering encouragement. Romo pulled away and kept walking. 
Jones never addressed that brushoff after the game, when he quickly defended the quarterback. The owner said he had “a lot of faith in Romo” and nothing had changed that. 
Since leading the Cowboys to their first playoff victory in 13 seasons at the end of the 2009 season, Romo is 3-8 in his past 11 starts, including his abbreviated 2010 season. 
“I think he’s a very good starting quarterback,” Gar­rett said. “I played next to a Hall of Fame quarterback in this organization (Troy Aik­man) for a long time and each and every day he came in to learn and get better. That’s what the best ones do in foot­ball and do in life. I’d expect Tony to continue to do that.” 
Romo also got a show of support Monday from Dallas Mavericks star Dirk Nowit­zki, who tweeted “Dear tony romo. Don’t worry abt all the critics. I heard that same gar­bage for a long time. Keep working hard and keep im­proving.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
FARM HELP WANTED 
Hardworking, mature individual to handle various chores. Anything from cleaning stalls, painting, and shoveling, etc. $8 an hour cash. Flexible schedule. Must have own transportation to New Carlisle. Horse experience a plus. Please call Jeanine day: 
574-631-9812 or cell: 574-323-1121 evening 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Barney Stinson quotes 
“Every Halloween, I bring a spare costume, in case I strike out with the hottest girl at the party. That way, I have a second chance to 
make a first impression.” 
“Think of me like Yoda, but instead of being little and green I wear suits and I’m awesome. I’m your 
bro—I’m Broda!” 

“It’s gonna be legend-... wait for it... and I hope you’re not lactose intolerant because the second half 
of that word is DAIRY!” 
“Those Canadian doctors bandaged me up, put my shoulder back in its socket, and reset my jaw, and they didn’t even bill me. 
Idiots!” 
“Ted you may wanna find a new 
gender for yourself ‘cause I’m 
revoking your dude membership.” 
“If you are not sure, ask yourself, ‘What would Ted do?’ Then do the 
opposite.” 
“You’re going to miss out on a lot of awesome stuff. You’ll be at home, with the kid, while I am out 
awesomming, all over the place.” 
“Now, if you want, you can go to the same bar, and drink the same beer, talk to the same people everyday. OR -- you can link the 
Liberty Bell.” 

Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 




Wildcats dominate Welsh Family, 38-8 

By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Ryan continued its domi­nance this weekend with a 38-8 victory over Welsh Fam­ily. 
Ryan (3-0) fell behind early in the game 8-0, but immedi­ately responded with a touch­down and never looked back. Senior captain and running back Brianna Curtis led the Wildcats with 100 rushing yards and two touchdowns along with 20 receiving yards. 
“This week basically was just putting what we’ve done in practice into play,” Curtis said. 
Junior quarterback Maya Pillai also threw for three touchdown passes in the game. With the score at 14-8, the Wildcats ran a hook and later­al to Curtis down the sideline for a 65-yard touchdown. 
“It’s a play we like and it’s difficult to pull off, but when we do it’s a lot of fun,” Curtis said. “It worked out really well for us today.” 
Welsh Family (2-2) started out strong with a touchdown pass from junior quarterback Vicky Moreno to senior re­ceiver Natalie Baldasare. After the Whirlwind’s quick start, though, they struggled against the Wildcat defense. 
“We made a couple of er­rors and didn’t make adjust­ments well,” senior receiver and captain Charlotte Seasly said. “Next week we will look to tighten things up a little bit offensively.” 
Ryan looked to keep its un­defeated season alive last night against Pasquerilla East, while Welsh Family hopes to bounce back against Walsh next Sun­day. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
Lewis 8, Pasquerilla East 6 


By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
Following a scoreless first half, both Pasquerilla East and Lewis were ready to prove themselves in the second, but it was the Chicks who edged ahead with an 8-6 victory. 
Lewis junior quarterback Connaught Blood found sopho­more receiver Colleen Haller for the decisive touchdown. 
“Getting an offensive touch­down was a highlight for us this game,” senior captain Margot DeBot said. 
By winning, the Chicks (2-1) kept their playoff hopes alive. 
“With our first loss, we need­ed to win most if not all of the rest of our games,” DeBot said. “This game and winning two games in a row definitely gives us momentum. We’re really getting into a groove.” 
Pasquerilla East (0-3-1) is still looking for its first win. The Pyros took the lead in the contest when freshman re­ceiver Amanda LaPorte caught a pass and ran for a 20-yard touchdown. 
“Overall, it was a tough loss,” LaPorte said. “We gave it our hardest effort, and we’ve re­ally improved a lot.” 
The Pyros’ defense, with great pass coverage from ju­nior safety Anna Perino, held the Chicks scoreless until the second half. 
“The defense had some pretty big plays,” LaPorte said. “They did really well in the first half and worked really hard.” 
The Pyros hoped to notch their first victory against Ryan last night and the Chicks look to continue their momentum against Lyons on Monday. 
Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 
Lyons 13, Walsh 12 


By STEPHANIE BANTA 
Sports Writer 
In a game that was decided in the final seconds, Lyons gained a victory beating Walsh 13-12 Sunday night. 
“We are thrilled,” senior quarterback Kat Rodriguez said. “It was an exhilarating win.” 
Rodriguez, who threw for 153 yards, led the Lyonites (2­
2) through the aggressive Wild Woman defense. 
“Our offense played well to­day, especially under the pres­sure of Walsh’s defense,” Ro­driguez said. “We were able to hold ourselves together and play composed.” 
The Lyonites found keeping their composure even harder after two penalties cost them 75 yards and a touchdown in the second half. 
“We were a bit dejected af­ter the penalties but we knew there was nothing we could do about it except play even hard­er,” Rodriguez said. “ Overall it was a great game with a lot of controversial calls. That we were able to hold it together till the end shows the strength of Lyons Hall football and how far we have come since last year.” 
Working to improve each week, Walsh (0-3-1) grappled with setbacks as well. 
“They ran a different offense than we expected which threw us off a bit but defense adjust­ed well,” junior captain Lin­dy Navarre said. “We played well and we played hard and I guess that’s all we can ask for. No one likes to lose but we’re improving each game.” 
With 96 rushing yards and two forced punts, Walsh has found improvements since its last game especially with young talent like freshman Maggie Fisher, who scored one of Walsh’s two touchdowns. 
“We just need to regroup and refocus for this coming week,” Navarre said. “I am confident in the talent of this team and their dedication to the game.” 
Lyons looked to continue its winning ways against Lewis last night, while Walsh hopes to regain its composure against Welsh Family on Sunday. 
Contact Stephanie Banta at sbanta01@saintmarys.edu 
Cavanaugh 20, Breen-Phillips 0 


By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
The Cavanaugh offense made it a point to score early and of­ten Sunday night, amassing 


see CHAOS/page 13 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 2011 
the potentially game-changing after committing too many pen-


Siegfried 
opportunity and failed to con-alties and turning over the ball vert on third-and-inches. The twice. continued from page 16 Vermin (2-1) then took over on One of the bright spots for the 
downs and scored on a 15-yard Griffins, though, was an out-ability of the offense to help the pass to sophomore receiver standing one-handed grab by defense. Bobby Dorman. sophomore receiver Jack Ber­
“It’s on the offense,” Dansdill “It was good to come back out nard. said. “The offense was bad and with a win and hopefully the Stanford junior captain Eric it made the defense tired.” same will happen next weekend Zeltwanger said the Griffins (1­
Alumni will try to reestablish against Sorin,” junior captain 1) will take a lot from this game. its dominant defense Sunday Keith Marrero said. “I’m proud “We had no energy, spirit and against Knott, while Siegfried of the way we came out today. we played dead football,” Zelt­will look to stay undefeated We came ready to play and we wanger said. Sunday against Morrissey. got it done.” The Griffins will look to re-
Zahm, meanwhile, is hoping vive their playoff hopes next Contact Scott Frano at for a different outcome next week when they play Keough, sfrano@nd.edu weekend. and the Big Red will play O’Neill 
“We had a great time out on Sunday. there today, but there isn’t much St. Edward’s 9, Fisher 8 you can do with everyone play-Contact Andrew Cardoza at 
ing both ways,” senior center acardoza@nd.edu By JAMES SOUTHARD Ryan Costello said. “We don’t Sports Writer have many options right now. 
We only have two more games Duncan 7, Morrissey 0 
St. Edward’s triumphed over left, so if we can just work on Fisher in a thrilling 9-8 battle the positive things we did today, By PETER STEINER that came down to the last play. I think we might be able to turn Sports Writer 

The Gentlemen (1-1) first drew it around a little bit.” blood in the showdown with a Zahm will play St. Edward’s After running the ball well 47-yard field goal. Then, with on Sunday, while Carroll faces the whole game, Duncan fi­six minutes left in the game, ju-Sorin in hopes of continuing its nally reached the end zone in nior receiver Connor Ryan came winning streak. the third quarter when sopho­up with a clutch 11-yard touch-more running back Noah Ran-down catch from sophomore Contact Ally Darragh at gel scored on a five-yard touch-quarterback Paul Martin Rodri-adarra01@saintmarys.edu down run to shut out Morrissey Morrissey struggled to gen-they were having in the first guez to secure the lead at 9-8. 7-0. erate offense in the game, only half.” 
“Our passing really came to-The Highlanders (1-2) came gaining three first downs. The Sophomore Jonathan Savakus gether towards the end, and our Dillon 17, Stanford 0 out on top with their combina-Manor also lost the time of pos-maneuvered his way through defense ran hard,” senior de-tion of smash-mouth football session battle, as they did not the Knights’ defense, helping fensive lineman Neil Mathieson By ANDREW CARDOZA and a strong defensive effort. once have the ball on offense in push the Mob offense during the said. Sports Writer The Highlanders combined for the third quarter. second half. But there was not 
Mathieson had two pass 214 yards rushing, with 130 “We played hard,” junior safe-much the Mob (0-2) could do to breakups, a sack and a forced Dillon sophomore quarter-coming from Rangel and sopho-ty Alex Oloriz said. “We played prevent the Knights’ reign. fumble for the Gentlemen. back Kevin Fink threw for 109 more quarterback Josh Whelan. for four quarters and always “Today feels really good. 
The defense as a whole stood yards with a touchdown and “Our offensive line played will.” Those guys beat us last year firm in the face of Fisher’s at-ran for another 36 yards in a with a lot of intensity today and Next week the Manor will try and there was no mistake that tack with two interceptions that 17-0 win over Stanford. our fullback had a couple of to get their season back on track this was our payback,” junior iced the win for St. Edward’s. “Our offensive line played great blocks that opened some against Siegfried while Duncan captain Andrew McDonough 
“We can’t lose right now,” Ma-amazing,” Fink said. “They de-holes and got me some yards,” has the week off. said. “It got a little chippy out thieson said. termine how well our offense Rangel said. there towards the end, but we 
Fisher (1-2) came away disap-plays. Without them, we could Rangel’s winning touchdown Contact Peter Steiner at are really happy with the way pointed, despite a solid defen-have not played as well as we was set up by Whelan’s 20-yard psteiner@nd.edu we played.” sive effort that included three did.” pass to the Morrissey 5-yard Led by senior Allan Jones sacks. Dropped interceptions From the first snap, the Big line on fourth down after Whel-who recorded two catches and haunted the Green Wave, and a Red (2-1) dominated, opening an fumbled the field goal snap. Keenan 35, O’Neill 14 a touchdown on the day, the failure to establish a consistent the game with a quick 47-yard In addition to an effective Knights’ offense was nearly un­passing attack kept the offense pass to junior receiver Will Salvi rushing attack, the Highland-By MEGHAN RODER stoppable. one-dimensional. that led to a 36-yard field goal. ers’ defense also played well, Sports Writer “Big shout out to the offensive 
“We just need to get going in “We controlled the ball with Whelan said. line,” McDonough said. “Be­the first half,” junior captain two quick turnovers which set “Our defense was great as Keenan took care of O’Neill hind the line of scrimmage I Matt Hart said. the tone for our offense,” Salvi always,” Whelan said.  “It’s re-35-14, despite an O’Neill come-got touched once. I was able to 
Fisher sophomore quarter-said. “Our biggest improvement ally been a strong point of this back attempt that left the game throw all day. When our guys back Joe Paggi marched the of-by far was the fact that we made team.” tied at 14 in the second half. do their jobs, that allows our of­fense down the field in the third no mental mistakes and we took Duncan had two interceptions “We shot ourselves in the foot fense to really click how it did quarter, scoring on a three-care of the football.” on the day, including one with the first half,” O’Neill senior today.” yard sneak and converting the Meanwhile the Griffins de-1:25 left in the game.  Morrissey captain Guy Schwartz said. “We Keenan has a bye next week, two-point conversion with an-fensemen played well, giving up threatened to score, but the did a lot better in the second while O’Neill plays Stanford on other run. But mistakes and 195 yards of total offense but sophomore quarterback Patrick half. It was tied at 14-14 and Sunday. turnovers limited Fisher, and still keeping their team in the Dugan threw an interception that was obviously not because despite recovering a fumble in game. Their offense, however, at the goal line and ended the Keenan was letting up. Our of-Contact Meghan Roder at the fourth quarter, the offense never really gained momentum Manor’s chance to tie the game. fense fixed a lot of the problems mroder01@saintmarys.edu could not generate any signifi­cant drives late in the game. 
“If we bring more offensive intensity, then we’re tough to beat,” Hart said. 
St. Edward’s will try to ex­tend its winning streak against Zahm on Sunday, while Fisher looks to improve in practice during a bye week. 
Contact James Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu 
Carroll 9, Zahm 0 



By ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writer 
Carroll dominated Zahm in a 9-0 shutout win Sunday, pro­longing the Zahmbies’ search for their first win. 
“I had the time of my life out there today,” Zahm senior Luke Lennon said. “I don’t think we lost. I think the only people that lose are the people who actually care about interhall football. I’m just excited to finally go to the Old Country Buffet.” 
Zahm (0-2) had a chance to take the lead after intercepting a pass at the Carroll 20-yard line. But the Zahmbies could not muster up enough offen­sive production to capitalize on 




Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

Chaos 
continued from page 11 
three touchdowns in the first half to give the Chaos a 20-0 win over Breen-Phillips. 
After being held to a three-and-out on its first drive, Cava­naugh (3-0) scored on its next three possessions. The Chaos put their first points on the board when senior quarter­back Rebecca Cink connected with senior receiver Brittni Alexander on a 19-yard touch­down pass. Alexander would then find the end zone again on the next possession, running the ball in from the 1-yard line to give the Chaos a 13-0 lead. 
“I simply ran my routes the way they were designed and turned on the afterburners to outrun their defenders,” Alex­ander said. “Rebecca can re­ally throw the deep ball, and she executed well today.” 
Cink showed her effective passing skills on several long completions, including a 41­yard touchdown pass to senior receiver Bridget Bredemann with mere seconds left in the first half. 
Breen-Phillips (0-4) was able to gain yardage on offense, amassing eight first downs and utilizing several strong runs from sophomore quarterback Molly Toner. 
However, the Babes were kept from reaching the end zone by Cavanaugh’s defense, a unit that has not allowed a single point this season. 
“We moved the ball better today than we have done the entire year,” Toner said. “Un­fortunately, we couldn’t put to­gether enough good plays in a row to score touchdowns.” 
Breen-Phillips looks to notch its first win of the season when it plays Pasquerilla West next Sunday, while Cavanaugh looks to keep its perfect record intact when it plays Pangborn tonight. 

Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
Farley 6, Pangborn 0 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
On its way to its third shutout of the season, an undefeated Farley squad defeated Pang-born 6-0. 
Farley (3-0) relied on its lock-down defense and some timely offense to get the victory.  Se­nior defensive end Elise Jor­dan and senior defensive back Claire Kueny both greatly con­tributed to the defensive effort, as Jordan had four key stops in the backfield and Kueny had one of the Finest’s two inter­ceptions. 
“It was a hard fought defen­sive battle,” Jordan said. “I’m really proud of the defense.” 
The Finest’s lone score came in the first half when senior quarterback Megan Bastedo threw a 1-yard touchdown pass. Farley’s offense had dif­ficulties in the second half as they failed to gain a first down, but the first-half score was enough for the Finest’s defense. 
Pangborn (1-2) stayed with the Finest all game and threat­ened to score at the very end but ran out of time on the clock. The Phoxes were frustrated by the Finest’s defense in the first half, running only five plays. Though they felt short of scor­ing, the Phoxes made some im­provements in the second half, amassing 100 yards of offense. 
“It was a good game,” senior captain Liz Pawlak. “But it was frustrating we couldn’t score.” 
Since the defense was able to stop Farley’s offense for the ma­jority of the game, Pawlak says Pangborn hopes it can work on its offensive production. 
“Hopefully we can get our of­fense down the field a little bit better,” Pawlak said. 
Farley looks to stay unbeaten tonight against Badin, while Pangborn also plays tonight, hoping to get back to .500 with a win against Cavanaugh. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 20, Badin 6 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla West put togeth­er a dominant all-around effort in a 20-6 win over Badin. 
Coming off a thrilling come-from-behind win last week against Pangborn, the Purple Weasels (2-1) picked up right where they left off, scoring on their first two drives of the game. Pasquerilla West is surging, and has its sights set on a third straight champion­ship game appearance. 


“We’re feeling really confi­dent right now,” senior head coach Jim Moore said. “We’re looking to get back to [Notre Dame Stadium]. We lost in the championship game the last two years and we don’t think it’s a successful season unless we win the championship.” 
The Purple Weasels had to in­stall a new offense after losing freshman quarterback Lauren Vidal to the varsity crew team. Junior Kirsten Danna took over at quarterback and the offense didn’t miss a beat. Pasquerilla West scored three times, twice on trick plays. 
“We scored on some trick plays that they love running,” Moore said. “We had the line­man screen and the option pass, which worked like a charm.” 
Badin (1-2), which only had one first down in the first half, struggled to find continuity on offense. The Bullfrogs, howev­er, know they ran into a power­house in Pasquerilla West. 
“We put up a good fight against a good [Pasquerilla West] team,” senior captain Melissa Guinan said. “We’re seeing a lot of improvement and we’re excited for our next game against Farley.” 
Some of that improvement was seen in the offense in the second half. With junior Ashley Okonta in at quarterback, the Bullfrogs moved the ball with more success. Okonta accumu­lated 78 total yards, 10 of which came on a touchdown run. 
Badin looks to get back on track tonight against Farley, while Pasquerilla West hopes to keep rolling next Sunday versus Breen-Phillips. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



SMC SOCCER 
Belles begin MIAA stretch with Trine 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Looking to return to the win­ning ways that marked the Belles’ early season, Saint Mary’s begins a stretch of four straight MIAA matches on the road Tuesday with a game against Trine College. 
After winning the first five games of their season, the Belles (6-4, 2-4) have since dropped four of five, including a 2-0 home loss Saturday to Kalamazoo. 
To get past the Thunder and avoid dropping to seventh place in the nine-team MIAA, the Belles will look to convert more of their opportunities on offense. In Sat­urday’s match, Saint Mary’s man­aged 14 shots — only three less than Kalamazoo — but failed to convert any of the opportunities into goals. 
Senior midfielder/forward Kate­lyn Tondo-Steele will look to spark the Belles’ offensive efforts. Ton­do-Steele leads the Saint Mary’s squad with 10 shots on goal for the year, and is tied for the team lead in scoring with three goals thus far. 
Meanwhile the Belles’ defense will look to continue its strong play so far this season. The defensive squad has surrendered a mere 11 goals in 10 games and has given up more than two goals on only one occasion. 
Saint Mary’s youth at the goal­keeper position have also contrib­uted to the Belles’ backfield efforts. The team’s two goalies, freshmen Chandler Rosenbaum and Natalie Warner, have together saved 77 percent of shots sent their way. 
In the upcoming match, the Belles face a Thunder team (3-6-1, 1-4-1) that has dealt with its own struggles lately, winning just one of their last seven games. 
However, Trine put forth an encouraging effort Saturday as it took MIAA-leading Alma College to a scoreless tie. Though goals have proven hard to come by for the Thunder offense, the defense has stepped up over the past four games, allowing a mere two goals cumulatively. 
The Thunder defense has been anchored by the strong play of se­nior goalkeeper Jen Wall. Facing a barrage of 23 shots from the Alma offense Saturday, Wall managed to save all 11 shots on goal. 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Ango­la, Ind. on Tuesday to take on Trine College at 4 p.m. 
Following Tuesday’s game, the Belles will travel to Holland, Mich. for a match at Hope College on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 2011 
Twitter Seniors 
continued from page 16 continued from page 16 
bers told us how significant it was 
ing played on the U.S. Amateur going to be and set us up an ac-
tour this summer, Scodro was count. Within two days, we had 
named one of the top 50 college 25,000 hits, and I realized that 
players to watch this season by it was just marketing. It was just 
Golf World magazine. a matter of time after that until I 
“Winning the Big East gave brought it to Notre Dame.” 
Scodro a lot of confidence,” Ku-In addition to Waldrum, many 
binski said. “He finished five Irish players have also taken to 
off the lead at the Gopher Invi­tweeting. Senior captains Me­
tational last weekend, and he lissa Henderson and Jessica 
really didn’t play his best golf. Schuveiller, freshman Taylor 
That just shows how good he Schneider and sophomores Kecia 
can be.” Morway and Adriana Leon can 
Tom Usher and Chris Walker be found on the site, and their 
join Scodro at the top of the back and forth with Waldrum is 
Irish line up. always entertaining. 
Usher, who hails from Bail­“We have some good ones be-
don, England, is attempting to tween us,” Waldrum said. “Un­
come back from a wrist injury fortunately, you have to monitor 
suffered while weightlifting in them in this day and age, but so 
the spring season. Before the in-far the kids have been nothing 
jury, Usher was a game changer but classy and funny.” 
for the Irish after he exploded With its candid and humorous 
onto the scene his sophomore tweets, the team has attracted 
season. a large online following. Wal­
“Usher really has a chance to drum alone has over 1,400 fol-
put together a special season,” lowers and 2,500 tweets, and has 
Kubinski said. “Even though reached an entire new set of fans. 
he’s recovering from injury he “There’s been so much re-
beat our whole team at qualify­sponse to it,” Waldrum said. “I 
ing early in the year. We know hope it has [brought in more 
he has the big-time experience fans]. We’ve gone back up this 
after winning the Big East as a year, and it’s probably been a fac­
sophomore.” tor in that.” 
Walker is another player who For Waldrum, though, the big-
has a chance to lead the Irish to gest appeal of the site is the abili­
a special year in 2011, Kubin­ty to keep in touch with the soccer 

ski said. Though he broke into “When we recruited him, we sitting at No. 6 or 7 on the depth work can get you.” community around the country. 
Notre Dame’s line-up during saw him as a surefire No. 1 for chart, has a chance to make an With hard work and a little “I think the best part of the 
the fall of his sophomore year, us, and he has shown flashes of impact for the first time this luck, Kubinski said he is confi­whole thing is just the bantering 
Kubinski believes the Texan that.  He hasn’t broken through season. dent this group of seniors could that goes on around the country,” 
can raise his game to another to where we think he can go, “Coughlin actually tried out lead the Irish to a successful he said. “I decided to change it 
level. but if he can, we’ll have a spe-for the team as a sophomore, season. up this weekend, and I wore a 
“Walker has been a steady, if cial season.” didn’t make it and returned for suit and tie on the sidelines for 
not consistent player for us for Rounding out the foursome his junior year,” Kubinski said. Contact Conor Kelly at our game against UConn on TV. I 
a couple years,” Kubinski said. is walk-on Ryan Coughlin who, “He’s a testament to what hard ckelly17@nd.edu was inundated with tweets about how I was the [Portuguese team manager] Jose Mourinho of Notre Dame.” 
tained the squad at the 1980 tournament appearances. But matter what I’m doing,” Brown Notre Dame will be back in ac-
Brown 

Lake Placid Olympics. Brown said it is more than on-said. “Because when it comes tion at Seton Hall on Friday at 7 
But Brown said that is was her court successes that have kept down to it, that’s what we’re re­p.m., where they hope to continue 
continued from page 16 love of the college experience her at Notre Dame for the last 21 ally here for.” their #winning ways. 
that led her back into coaching years. Brown’s busy schedule is a pecially in high-pressure situa-after her playing days were over. “I think I believe in everything juggling act of coaching, pro-
Contact Jack Hefferon at 

tions. I understand what it’s like “I always thought I’d continue that the University stands for gram managing and recruiting 
wheffero@nd.edu 

to be a student athlete.” as national team coach,” Brown and is trying to do,” Brown said. in a cycle that she said seems 
Brown began her playing ca-said. “But I really missed the “The educational experience, never-ending. But, ultimately, 
reer at USC in 1976 and led the college atmosphere, being in a campus life, spiritual growth is Brown said all the hard work 
Trojans to a 72-1 record in her department that’s not just about all so strong here.” has been worth it. 
first two years. She left after her volleyball.” Through it all, Brown said she “There can be some pretty Mathews 
sophomore year, during which After six years as head coach has always maintained a strong late nights in the office,” Brown she won the Mikasa award for at Arizona State, Brown joined devotion to her players and their said. “But it’s what I signed up 
continued from page 16 

the nation’s “best all-around the Irish in 1990. Since then, needs. for.” 
player” for the second year in a she has amassed a .717 win-“Whether it’s coming in to rankings, which can help them 
row. Brown joined the national ning percentage, 15 conference watch film or analyze play, my Contact Conor Kelly at get into the NCAA individual 
team to train full time and cap-championships and 21 NCAA players always come first no ckelly17@nd.edu championships,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “It gives our top two players a chance to com­pete against the top players in the country.” 
Mathews echoed her coach’s en­thusiasm for meeting her toughest competitors. 
“I look forward to this opportu­nity,” Mathews said. “Kristy and I have been working hard these past few weeks in preparation for this tournament and we feel great about our games as well as our chances this year.” 
Sizing up some of the best com­petition in the country will be ex­citing, but it’s not the only thing on Mathews mind. She said she hopes the Southern California weather will live up to its reputation and bestow a bit of much-appreciated sunshine on the Irish. 
“I always enjoy playing tennis outdoors, especially in California,” Mathews said. “Unfortunately, I think it will actually be warmer in South Bend this week than Pacific Palisades, but maybe Mother Na­ture will surprise us.” 
Matthews will represent the Irish at the Riviera Tennis Club for All-American Qualifying in Pacific Palisades, Calif., on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT                              AND JEFF KNUREK 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, October 4, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S GOLF 
Fantastic Four 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After a Big East champion­ship and a respectable showing at the NCAA championship last year, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said his squad has the talent to make a deep run in national competition this year. 
Returning the top five golfers from last season, Notre Dame draws strength from its depth and experience. That stems from the squad’s four seniors, whose presence over the last three years has helped propel the Irish to the brink of the na­tion’s elite. 
Though Kubinski was disap­pointed at his team’s third place finish at the Gopher Invitational this past weekend, he said the tournament highlighted just how much potential his senior foursome of Tom Usher, Max Scodro, Chris Walker and Ryan Loughlin has. 
“Three of those guys have been playing since their sopho­more year and one since his freshman year,” Kubinski said. “They know what they’re doing out there, and more importantly they know what they want to do. We were crushed after finishing third the other day. Last year we might have been satisfied with that, but not these guys this year.” 
Any discussion of the senior class has to start with Chicago native Max Scodro, the defend­ing Big East individual cham­pion. Despite Kubinski’s re­luctance to label him as such, Scodro appears to be Notre Dame’s top golfer based on his early tournament results. Hav­
see SENIORS/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Mathews to play in qualifying tourney 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Shannon Mathews, the na­tion’s No. 38 women’s collegiate tennis player, will participate in the 64-player qualifying pool in Pacific Palisades, Calif., on Tues­day to try to secure a spot in this weekend’s All-American Cham­pionships. 
The senior will first play No. 43 Nadja Gilchrist from the Uni­versity of Georgia. Mathews will need to win that match, plus two more across Tuesday and Wednesday, to be one of the eight finalists in the 32-player main draw. 
Mathew’s teammate Kristy Frilling, ranked No. 3 in the country, is one of those 32. To­gether, the two make up the Intercollegiate Tennis Asso­ciation’s fifth-ranked women’s doubles pair, and are already entered in the main draw of the 24-team doubles field. 
This is the second consecutive year that the duo has automati­cally qualified for the main pool. Last year, the two defeated a pairing from Yale before falling to the nation’s top-ranked pair­ing from the University of Cali­fornia in the round of 16. 
“This is a tournament that helps our players’ individual 
see MATHEWS/page 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Brown draws on time as player to coach 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Since taking over the reigns as head coach of Notre Dame, Debbie Brown transformed a program that had recorded just five winning seasons in its first 11 years of existence into a Big East powerhouse. 
Now in her 21st season at Notre Dame, nine of Brown’s Irish teams have ranked in the AVCA’s final poll. 
The involved coach has not only led her players to success in the collegiate realm, but also on the international stage. As the Irish currently sit at 8-6 and appear poised to make a run in the Big East, current sopho­more Andrea McHugh is set to join the ranks of Irish players on the U.S. national team. 
Brown credits her experi­ence playing both in college and on the international level with helping her relate to her play­ers. 
“I think as a coach, being a former player is a huge advan­tage,” Brown said. “You are able to identify with players, what they’re going through, es-
see BROWN/page 14 
MEN’S INTERHALL 
Ramblers hand Dawgs their first loss of season 
By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
Siegfried not only became the first team to score on Alumni this season but also became the first to defeat the Dawgs with a 13-3 win Sunday. 
Siegfried senior receiver Will Gesicki caught a touchdown pass on the Ramblers’ first drive and junior running back David Whitmore added another touchdown on a sweep play at the end of the first half. 
Whitmore admitted he knew of Alumni’s shutout streak and gave his offensive line credit for the running game’s success. 
“We had some trouble getting a push from our line last week,” Whitmore said. “We have some pretty good backs, we just need­ed a little space at the line and we got that this week.” 
Alumni (2-1) tried to estab­lish a running game of its own, but the Ramblers’ defensive line stood tall throughout the contest. Senior defensive line­man Mike Dineen said he liked what he saw from the defense, but thinks there is still room for improvement. 
“We did pretty well [Sunday],” Dineen said. “We just have to keep improving. We have to clean up some mistakes. They had a couple good runs on us but overall we caused some turnovers and got some good pressure from our defensive line.” 
Alumni senior running back and captain Dan Dansdill put the blame for the loss on the in-
see SIEGFRIED/page 12 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Waldrum, team embrace Twitter 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
In the world of college soc­cer, Irish coach Randy Wal­drum is known as a success­ful coach, a strong tactician and a national champion. To an increasing number of on-line followers though, he’s also known by another title: @NDCoachWaldrum. 
Waldrum and the Irish have embraced Twitter as a way to reach out to fans and give people an inside look at the team. Waldrum said he was introduced to the power and reach of the website several years ago. 
“What got me started in on Twitter was a convention a couple of years ago when I was president of the National Soc­cer Coaches Association,” he said. “One of our board mem­
see TWITTER/page 14 






