
Monday, September 19, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 13 
Back on track 
Notre Dame takes early lead, wins its first game of the season behind a strong defensive effort 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Last year, No. 15 Michigan State rode a fake field goal play called “Little Giants” to a thrilling overtime victory over Notre Dame. It turns out the sequel is no success, as Notre Dame rolled to a 31-13 win Sat­urday to avoid an 0-3 start. 
Down 21-10 with 48 seconds left in the first half, the Spar­tans (2-1) attempted a fake field goal on fourth-and-goal from the Irish 2-yard line. Notre Dame senior defensive end Ethan Johnson broke through the Spartan front and disrupt­ed the shovel pass intended for sophomore running back Le’Veon Bell, swinging momen­tum to the Irish heading into halftime. 
“They got some push right there on the wing side and they got penetration right there,” Spartans coach Mark Danto­nio said. “It knocked the tight end back, the guard back, and because of that it didn’t go. He could not get around. Had he gotten around, it looked like [Bell] would have walked in.” 
“We had some time to talk about it and just reminded our guys to be gap-conscious and do their jobs,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We just did our job on that and obviously were able to come up with a big play.” 

Sophomore running back Cierre Wood led the Irish at­tack with two first-half rush-10. return for a touchdown, giving tans senior quarterback Kirk out of reach. ing touchdowns. The Irish (1-“T.J. and I came in together the Irish a 14-3 lead. Cousins to fumble the ball in “We woke up Monday and we 
2) set the tone early with an [in the spring of 2010],” Rees “[Atkinson] certainly is the first quarter. went to work, and we did the eight-play, 76-yard drive to said. “We have a great chem-someone we looked at all year,” “There were a number of same thing Tuesday, Wednes­start the game and never gave istry out there. [We’re] just Kelly said. “We felt like, based times where they were forced day, Thursday and Friday,” up the lead after Wood capped building the confidence with upon some of the things that to throw the football,” Kelly Blanton said. “We just keep the drive with a 22-yard touch-each other. [The receivers] are happened on kickoff return said. “We were able to pin our taking [the] coaching and down run. getting a little more used to against Michigan, this would ears back, and Aaron is an out-knowing that we can keep get-
Wood also scored on a 6-yard how I’m playing, and me the be the right opportunity for standing pass rusher. I think ting better as a unit. We need to run with three minutes left in same way, and I think we have him.” he showed that today.” play great to win. The coaching the first half to put the finish-done a really good job staying With the return, Atkinson Notre Dame limited the Spar-staff makes sure we practice ing touches on a 92-yard drive. on the same page.” became the first freshman to tans rushing attack to just 29 that which makes us prepared Wood and senior running back Rees spread the ball out to return a kickoff for a touch-yards, a year after Bell and ju-on game day.” Jonas Gray combined for 112 four different receivers, as down since Raghib Ismail in nior Edwin Baker combined for The Irish gained only 275 rushing yards in the first half. senior wide receiver Michael 1988. 204 yards in Michigan State’s yards of offense compared to 
“[Getting the running game Floyd led the effort with 84 “It feels great,” Atkinson 34-31 victory. their 500-plus yard outputs going early] helps a lot,” sopho-yards on six receptions. said. “[Ismail] is a great re-“Credit Notre Dame in what in losses to South Florida and more quarterback Tommy Rees “I thought [Rees] managed turner. I’d like to see some film they were able to do,” Danto-Michigan. Despite the lowest said. “It keeps the defense on the game well,” Kelly said. “He and see how he does things nio said. “I thought they played offensive showing of the sea-their toes, not having to go out went in there knowing that we and pick up some pointers hard and they made plays. They son, Notre Dame came away there and throw it a lot. It all had to find a way to control and stuff. I was on the side-made plays on the ball down with its first victory, something starts with the offensive line. the line of scrimmage to the line [after scoring] and I was the field as a secondary and got Kelly felt his team had coming. They did an awesome job, not point where we could run the like ‘what just happened.’ It a push out of their defensive  “[It was a] much-needed vic­only protecting me but provid-football and set up some pass-was like a dream come true. I front. Cousins was on his back tory for our kids today,” Kelly ing running lanes. It’s fun hav-es later that gave us big-play thought I was dreaming. It was a lot after throwing the ball.” said. “We obviously felt, coming ing the whole offense click like touchdowns.” a great feeling to get the points Up 28-13 with four minutes into the ballgame, we hadn’t that.” Rees struggled in the first on the board and to know the left in the fourth quarter, Irish lacked any confidence in our 
Rees balanced the attack, quarter, turning the ball over special teams unit put some senior cornerback Robert Blan-ability to win football games throwing for 161 yards, includ-twice on consecutive drives. points on the board.” ton intercepted a pass from … Sooner or later you got to get ing an interception and a touch-But with a minute remaining The Irish defense pressured Cousins at the Irish 3-yard line paid. You got to be validated in down — a perfectly-thrown 26-in the first quarter, freshman the Spartan backfield through-and returned it 82 yards to the what you do, and so it was a big yard strike to sophomore wide running back George Atkin-out the game, which was high-Michigan State 12-yard line. win for us.” receiver T.J. Jones with nine son bailed out the struggling lighted by a colossal blind-side Blanton’s interception set up minutes remaining in the third Irish offense and electrified the hit by freshman defensive end senior kicker David Ruffer’s 33-Contact Andrew Gastelum at quarter to make the score 28-crowd with an 89-yard kickoff Aaron Lynch that caused Spar-yard field goal to put the game agastel1@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Robert Blanton Notre Dame cornerback Blanton recorded three tackles for a loss, deflected three key passes and sealed the game with a fourth-quarter interception.  29 rushing yards Notre Dame held Michigan State to only 29 rushing yards Saturday, forcing the Spartans into a one-dimensional offense.  George Atkinson’s 89-yard kickoff return touchdown Atkinson gave the Irish a 14-3 lead with his kickoff return touchdown in the first quarter, the first since 2008 for Notre Dame.  “It was a much-needed victory for our kids today ... You got to be vaildated in what you do, and so it was a big win for us.” Brian Kelly Irish coach  

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 19, 2011 


report card 
B 
quarterbacks: Overall, Tommy Rees managed the game well, but he com-
B 
mitted two more turnovers against Michigan State, giving him seven on the season. running backs: Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray were an effective duo as the Irish 
gained 113 first-half yards, but were in­effective in the second half, when they 

B­B+ A B A­A­A­3.4 
garnered only one yard. 
receivers: Michael Floyd highlighted the receiving corps’ effective downfield blocking, but the unit was mostly quiet outside of receptions by Floyd and T.J. Jones of 33 and 26 yards, respectively. 
offensive line: The big men up front continue to play well as a unit. The first half blocking allowed Notre Dame to take an early advantage and gave Rees time to throw for much of the game. 
defensive line: Notre Dame allowed only 29 rushing yards in the contest and pressured Kirk Cousins throughout the game, highlighted by Aaron Lynch’s sack and forced fumble. 
linebackers: The linebackers were ef­fective while blitzing and containing the run, but some miscues in pass cov­erage allowed Cousins to bail out the offense. 
defensive backs: Gary Gray was much improved after struggling at Michigan, and Blanton shut down the passing game before sealing the victory with his fourth-quarter interception. 
special teams: Between George Atkin­son’s kickoff return touchdown and Ben Turk’s improvement after switching to rugby-style punts, the unit played a key role in the win. 
coaching: Bob Diaco’s defensive game-plan was nearly flawless as the defense shut down Michigan State’s running game. The offensive gameplan was ef­fective in establishing the run early. 
overall: The Irish must be relieved after a nightmarish start to Sep­tember, but the team still has mistakes to correct before all is well at Notre Dame. 

adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame gained 275 yards of total offense Saturday, its lowest total of the season. 
275 
3 
The Irish again committed multipleturnovers Saturday, giving them 13 on 
the season. 
Notre Dame sophomore quarterbackTommy Rees has turned the ball overseven times in just 10 quarters in 2011. 
7 
53 
Kirk Cousins attempted 53 passes Sat­urday, surpassing his previous career-
high of 43. 
The Spartans scored just one touch­
down in five red zone appearancesSaturday. They also added a field goal. 
1 


5 
The Spartans converted a first down ononly five of 17 third-down attempts. 
It wasn’t perfect but a win is a win, and that’s exactly what Notre Dame needed to prevent a stunningly disappointing start from turning into a lost season. 
“We just had to find a way to win,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said after his team’s 31-13 win over No. 15 Michigan State on Sat­urday. “By any means, just Andrew Owens find a way to win the foot-Associate ball game.” Sports Editor 

Kelly’s words couldn’t be truer, as the Irish mixed-and-matched its way to a crucial victory with changes in personnel. 
Freshman running back George Atkinson  scored in his first game handling the kickoff return duties and punched Michigan State in the stomach, a blow from which it never recovered. 
Freshman linebacker Troy Nik­las and senior linebacker Steve Filer replaced starting sophomore Prince Shembo, who was absent due to a family emergency. The two did well enough for a unit that pressured Michigan State quarterback Kirk Cousins all day. 
Junior punter Ben Turk pinned the Spartans deep in their territory a couple times after switching to the rugby-style punt midway through the game. His performance in the first two games put the defense in difficult positions and the team could not afford to continue to lose valu­able field position. 
Kelly said he was impressed with the performance of the six true freshmen who contributed Saturday, highlighted by Atkin­son and defensive end Aaron Lynch’s sack and forced fumble in the first quarter. 
Now that the Irish seem to have found some answers at a few puz­zling positions and some play-makers have sparked the team at others, the team finds itself at 1-2 and with an opportunity moving forward. 
The next three opponents before the pre-USC bye week are Pittsburgh, Purdue and Air Force. The Panthers and Boiler­makers have struggled mightily in September and the Falcons are simply not a team that should give the Irish headaches. 
But before Notre Dame fans prematurely place a ‘W’ next to those three dates, they should re­member what happened in 2010. 
After a 1-3 start, Notre Dame seemed to be rolling again with wins over Boston College, Pitts­burgh and Western Michigan to improve to 4-3. The next two games, Navy and Tulsa, were assumed to be a cinch for Kelly’s inaugural squad. 
Long story short, the Irish lost both games to fall to 4-5 on the season, before reclaiming its con­sistency and finishing 2010 on a four-game winning streak. 
While Notre Dame should (soundly) defeat its next three op­ponents, nothing can be taken for granted by a team that has a ten­dency to take two steps forward and one step back. 
At this point in time, that can­not happen. Notre Dame needs to take the next step forward and roll over the teams it should roll over. It cannot expect to rejoin the top-25 and truly belong there until it does so. 
Kelly described Notre Dame’s play down the stretch Saturday as “outstanding.” For the team to continue to rehabilitate its 2011 campaign, it will require more mixing-and-matching and more sparks from the playmakers. 
When a kickoff returner sparks the squad by bringing one back or a freshman defensive line­man forces a turnover in a key situation, it removes some of the pressure from an offensive unit lacking consistency. 
Contrary to what many people believe, the 2011 squad will not be defined by the first two games. Sure, they will not be forgotten whatever their final record may be, but it is how the team re­sponds to the 0-2 start that will determine how they are remem­bered. 
If Notre Dame takes care of business, as it should, the next three weeks, it will enter the USC game with a 4-2 record, which, while not perfect, would mark a shift in the right direction for the program. 
And that’s exactly what Notre Dame needs right now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 






It was not perfect, but a win is a win 

Monday, September 19, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Blanton’s key plays lead Irish ‘D’ 

By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
After a week of criticism, questions and scrutiny following last week’s loss at Michigan, Notre Dame’s secondary raised questions that needed answer­ing, and senior cornerback Robert Blanton did just that in a 31-13 Irish victory Saturday. 
“We needed to show that we can go out and get the job done,” Blanton said. “It was very important because we’ve got great coaches we work with every day, and great players in the secondary. We played great as a defense, and ev­erybody stepped up and made a lot of plays.” 
The entire defense did step up against the Spartans, holding a team that had averaged 173 rushing yards a game to just 29 yards Saturday. And while the front seven smothered much of the Michigan State running game, Blan­ton and the defensive backs chipped in with some crucial contributions as well. Blanton alone had six tackles, three for a loss, including a disciplined read and a sack on a third-quarter reverse. 
“When the opportunity presents it­self, [Blanton] is always a guy who makes the play, whether it’s a ball in the air, making a tackle or making that big tackle on that reverse wildcat play they were doing,” senior safety and team captain Harrison Smith said. “So he’s just a gamer and he has a true feel for the game.” 
Between the Irish defense stopping the running game and the offense open­ing up an 18-point lead, senior quar­terback Kirk Cousins and the Spartan offense had no choice but to launch an aerial attack for much of the game. That they did, attempting a season-high 53 passes in all. For Blanton and the sec­ondary, it was just another day’s work. 

“We were pretty busy because they threw the ball a lot, but that’s fun. You love that as a [defensive back],” Blanton said. “You don’t want to give up the big play, especially when you’ve got a great lead. We just wanted to make sure we didn’t do anything as [defensive backs] back there to cost us the game.” 
Blanton swung the momentum of the game with a big play of his own. As the first half drew to a close, Cousins drove the Spartans into the red zone. On first­and-goal from the 12, Blanton knocked down a pass in the end zone intended for senior wide receiver B.J. Cunning­ham, one of his three break-ups on the day. 
On the next play, Blanton batted away a pass intended for senior wide receiver Keith Nichol, and suddenly it was third-and-long. Michigan State was unable to score on the next play, and its drive ended with a failed fake field-goal attempt that gave Notre Dame all the momentum for the second half. 
“The coaches make sure we work on playing the ball every day at the high­est point and squeezing the receiver,” Blanton said. “So it was just doing what I was coached that allowed me to make those plays.” 
Blanton was not finished when it came to big plays, as he sealed the victo­ry with a fourth-quarter turnover when Michigan State was attempting to cut it to a one-score deficit. The Spartans had decreased the Notre Dame advantage from 18 to 15, and after a muffed punt, two offensive plays and a penalty, they faced a first-and-goal from the 3-yard lin. Cousins looked right and threw to­wards running back Le’Veon Bell, but the ball never arrived. Blanton had de­flected the pass and picked it out of the air before running it back 82 yards to the Spartan 12-yard line. 
“Coach [Bob] Diaco and the coaching staff made a great call and put me in a great position,” Blanton said. “[Cous­ins] threw the ball and I was able to make a play on it. I had my teammates out there blocking for me, and [senior safety] Jamoris Slaughter kept yelling for me to pitch it to him. It was a great play.” 
The play was similar to Blanton’s interception with 4:23 remaining in the fourth quarter at Michigan that appeared to put the game out of the Wolverines’ reach. On this occasion, Blanton’s pick put the game on ice. Ac­cording to Irish coach Brian Kelly, it was just another instance of Blanton leading the defense. 
“[Blanton] is extremely active,” Kelly said. “He’s got great instincts. The ball is in the air, he’s going to get it. I feel confident no matter who goes against him that when the ball is in the air he’s going to make a great play on the ball. 
“And he’s a spirited guy. You talk about guys that lead by example … He’s probably one of our more emotional leaders back there.” 
Moving forward, Blanton said he knows the secondary needs to stay fo­cused in every game. 
“We’ve just got to make sure we go out there and be the same guys every day,” he said. “We all motivate each other, we all lift each other up. We’re all the energy. We’re the battery for the team. We wake up every morning and prepare to win as a team and as a unit. And we need every win.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 




Rushing duo dominates first half 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
After coming together for 200 yards rushing last week, the run­ning back tandem of junior Cierre Wood and senior Jonas Gray com­bined for 118 yards on 18 carries and two touchdowns in the first half. The duo had five runs of at least ten yards before the break. However, the Irish managed only two rushing yards in the second half. 
Irish defense smothers the run 
Michigan State entered the con­test with a rushing average of 175 yards per game, but Notre Dame’s defense held the Spartans to just 29 yards rushing on 23 carries. The 29 yards is the lowest running total by Michigan State against the Irish since 1987, when the Spartans ran for 21 yards in a 31-8 loss. The Spartans were only able to gain one first down on the ground in the first half, as their longest rushing play of the game was just eight yards. 

Irish respond after turnovers 
The Irish committed three turn­overs, bringing its season total to 
13. However, the defense allowed just three points from those three Michigan State possessions, de­spite all three occurring on Notre Dame’s half of the field. Two of those drives ended with the Irish generating turnovers of their own, as Aaron Lynch forced a fumble of quarterback Kirk Cousins on a sack and Robert Blanton recorded a key fourth-quarter interception. 
Trophy case 
For the first time since November 30, 1996, Notre Dame now has con­trol of the Megaphone (Michigan State), Jeweled Shillelagh (USC), Ireland Trophy (Boston College) and Shillelagh (Purdue). Each tro­phy is awarded yearly to the winner of the respective rivalry matchup. 
Home cooking 
Notre Dame defeated Michigan State at home for the second con­secutive time after losing six con­secutive matchups in Notre Dame Stadium, dating back to 1997. The Irish win marked the second vic­tory in the last three years of the series. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
MSU  3  7  0  3  13  
ND   14  7  7  3  31  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 0 
Cierre Wood 22-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 10:41remainingDrive: 8 plays, 76 yards,  4:19 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 3 
Dan Conroy 40-yd field goal with 1:32 remaining
Drive: 4 plays, 4 yards, 1:27 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 3 
George Atkinson 89-yd kickoff return (David Ruffer kick) with 1:20 remaining 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 10 
Dion Sims 6 yd-pass from Kirk Cousins (Dan Con­roy kick) with 11:57 remainingDrive: 11 plays, 80 yards, 4:23 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 10 
Cierre Wood 6-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 3:36remainingDrive: 10 plays, 92 yards, 4:49 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 10 
T.J. Jones 26-yd pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick) with 9:30 remainingDrive: 8 plays, 71 yards, 3:47 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 13 

Dan Conroy 35-yd field goal with 10:56 remaining
Drive: 8 plays, 42 yards, 3:53 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 13 

David Ruffer 33-yd field goal with 3:11 remaining
Drive: 4 plays, -5 yards, 0:21 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession passing 

Rees             18-26-161   Cousins  34-53-329  
rushing Gray                     12-65  Bell                  7-27 Wood      14-61  Baker        10-26  
receiving Floyd                       6-84  Cunningham        12-158 Wood         6-5  Martin        5-32 Jones       3-40  Bell          5-23 Eifert       2-25  Caper 4-25 Riddick         1-7  Sims          3-38  

kick returns 
Atkinson     4-142  Hill        4-129 
punting 
Turk     4-166      Sadler        6-238 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 19, 2011 


On the board 
Notre Dame jumped ahead 14-3 in the first quarter and never looked back in a 31-13 victory over Michigan State. Freshman George Atkinson recorded an 89-yard kickoff return touchdown and running backs Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray combined for 113 first-half rushing yards. Cornerback Robert Blanton made several key plays for the Irish secondary, including the game-sealing interception of Michigan State quarterback Kirk Cousins’ pass in the fourth quarter. The Spartans totaled only 29 rushing yards in the game. The win was Notre Dame’s first, as the Irish improved to 1-2 on the season. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 



PAT COVENEY/The Observer TOM YOUNG/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Several Irish defenders tackle a Michigan State running back; wide receiver Michael Floyd makes a jumping catch; running back Cierre Wood dives into the end zone for a touchdown; Wood breaks a tackle attempt by defensive end William Gholston; wide receiver T.J. Jones holds onto the ball and scores a touchdown. 


