the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND, SMC collaborate to ‘Take Back the Night’ 
Community members unite in solidarity against sexual violence, promote healing during national event 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY and 
NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writers 
Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s com­munities joined together for the first time Thursday as a “point of light” in the Take Back the Night (TBTN) cam­paign against sexual vio ­lence. 
Elizabeth Moriarty, assis­tant director of the Notre Dame Gender Relations Center (GRC), and Connie Adams, assistant director of the Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO), said the event is an opportunity for students and faculty to take a stand against all forms of sexual violence. 
“The primary aim of the event is to offer a space for survivors of sexual assault to have a voice, to shine their light into the darkness of vio­lence, ” Adams said. “It is critical for all members of 
our community to support those impacted by violence and to have a presence show­ing our commitment to pre­vent this violence from hap­pening in our community.” 
Take Back the Night (TBTN) began in Philadelphia in 1975 to unite people against abuse, sexual assault and rape. The event spread to thousands of universities and crisis centers around the country. 
Moriarty said Notre Dame held the event in years past, but this year the University will co-host TBTN with Saint Mary’s. The Take Back the Night Foundation requested Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s joint event as one of its “10 Points of Light” last fall. 
“This is our first year as a ‘point of light,’ but we’ve 
observed Take Back the Night the past few years,” 
see NIGHT/page 6 




Students celebrate London wedding in royal fashion 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Freshman Kate Fox will sport a “Team Kate” t-shirt Friday morning as Kate Middleton and Prince William tie the knot at Westminster Abbey in London. 
Fox said she and her friends will watch the wed­ding as it is broadcasted from London at 5 a.m. eastern time Friday morning. 
“We are going to get up and get tea and cookies for crum­pets and watch [the wedding] here in my room,” Fox said. “ 
Fox said her mother sent her the “Team Kate” t-shirt for Kate Middleton and a book about the royal couple before the wedding. 
“My mom really likes Princess Diana,” she said. “And I have always really liked her too. She especially did so much with AIDS and helped a lot of people. I think she was amazing, and obvi­ously her boys are very cute too.” 
Fox said her enthusiasm for the royal wedding motivated her friends to make plans to wake up early as well. 
“I’ve gotten my friends into it,” she said. “I overheard my roommate telling her mom we were going to watch it. They were all making fun of me, but now they are into it.” 
Senior Anne Reser said she would also sip tea and enjoy breakfast while watching the wedding ceremony with friends. 
A royal wedding is a his­toric moment, Reser said. 
“My mom watched [Princess] Diana get mar ­ried,” she said. 
However, Reser said her interest is more on the cere­mony itself rather than the royal family. 
“I am just really interested 
see ROYAL/page 5 


NDSP investigating reported sexual battery 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is encouraging students with any information about the sexual battery reported near Saint Mary’s Lake late Wednesday evening to contact investigators immediately, NDSP director Phil Johnson said. 
“We are trying to reach out to anyone who may have been walk­ing around Saint Mary’s Lake, the area of the Grotto, Holy Cross Hill, anywhere around the lake, between about 9:30 p.m. and a lit­tle bit after 10 p.m. on Wednesday evening,” Johnson said. 
Johnson said students with any information regarding the sexual assault should contact Capt. David Dosmann at (574) 631-8430. 

NDSP is currently investigating a sexual battery reported to cam­pus police after a Saint Mary’s stu­dent was assaulted on the path between Holy Cross Hill and Holy Cross Drive. Police reported the suspects were two white males approximately 5’10” who were wearing dark clothing. 
Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students were informed of the incident late Wednesday via email. 
“[The assault] continues to be actively investigated,” Johnson said. 



Campus to relay for cure 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
About 75 teams of stu ­dents, faculty and staff will last from sunset to sunrise in Notre Dame Stadium during Notre Dame’s seventh annual Relay for Life, which sup­ports the American Cancer Society (ACS) and will offer free food and a variety events from 6 p.m. until 9 
a.m. Saturday. 
“Support of the 2011 event plays an important role in furthering the American Cancer Society’s mission of eliminating cancer through research, education, advoca­cy and patient services,” said Lori Chaney, Notre Dame’s as well as to reduce cancer Relay for Life fundraising mortality by 50 percent and coordinator. “Our current incidence by 25 percent by goals are to help improve the 2015.” quality of life for cancer patients and their families, see RELAY/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Sorin hosts memorial tournament page 4  Viewpoint page 8  Fisher Regatta photo essay page 10  Men’s Lacrosse going to Syracuse page 20 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, April 29, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU GOING TO T E FIS ER REGATTA OR MUDDY SUNDAY?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kristen Durbin Kelsey Manning Mel Flanagan Megan Finneran Marisa Iati Vicky Jacobsen 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Ankur Chawla 

Photo Viewpoint 
Thomas La Amber Galik 


OFFBEAT 

DUI suspect picks up fast food before arrest 
NORTH ROYALTON, Ohio 
— Police in Ohio say a woman insisted on picking up some fast food before she allowed an officer to charge her with drunken driving. 
The Plain Dealer newspa­per of Cleveland reports police in suburban North Royalton got a call about a car weaving and going off a road at a little after 1 a.m. earlier this month. A patrol­man tracked the vehicle to the drive-thru of a Taco Bell restaurant and pulled up alongside. 
The police report says the driver had sunglasses on and her speech was slurred. She was ordered to get out of the line, but first she pro­ceeded to the second win-
Jenny Li  Kent Liederbach  Dominic Cimino  Jeff Steimle  Kyndrea Head  Gabe Pham  
junior  junior  junior  senior  junior  senior  
Ryan  off-campus  Dillon  Keenan  Farley  Morrissey  

“Muddy “Fisher “Muddy “Muddy “Both.” “Neither — 
Sunday.” Regatta.” Sunday.” Sunday.” Once as a freshman was good enough.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

dow to grab her order. 
Lucy Brown steals coveted canine title 
DES MOINES, Iowa — Iowa bulldog Lucy Brown's slobber, sloth and bloodshot eyes helped the precocious pup grab the greatest crown a drooling canine can ever dream of. 
The 3-year-old from Johnston, with a squat stance and slobber to spare, bested 49 dogs Monday to be named this year’s “Beautiful Bulldog” for the Drake Relays in Iowa. 
“She just thinks that the world goes around her. You know, Queen Lucy,” said Nancy Brown, Lucy’s owner, adding that the royal crown befits her beloved dog. “This is over the top.” 
Lucy Brown will make a series of public appearances and serve as the mascot for the 102nd Drake Relays, the prestigious track and field meet that starts Thursday at Drake Stadium. 
Officials use the term “beautiful” loosely for the tongue-in-cheek pageant, now in its 32nd year. Judges really are looking for the most adorably hideous bull­dogs they can find, and perennially 50 of them show up to strut their stuff. 
“They’re looking for that bulldog that is patient, that folks can come by and they can pet him and not get dis­ruptive,” said master of cer­emonies Dolph Pulliam. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
There will be a Bike Fest today from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. in front of the Rockne Memorial Gymnasium on South Quad. The purpose is to raise awareness of biking at Notre Dame and to prepare bikes for the summer. 
The seventh annual Notre Dame Relay for Life: Fightin’ Irish, Fightin’ Cancer to bene­fit the American Cancer Society will take place at Notre Dame Stadium today at 
6:30 p.m. until tomorrow at 9 
a.m. Activities will include a silent auction, Zumba, chair massages, fireworks and games. 
PEMCO will present its revue, “Bring Me a Dream” today at 7:30 p.m. in the Washington Hall Lab Theatre. Tickets are $3. There will also be a performance tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Washington Hall Lab Theatre. 
Students from the FTT 31006 Directing: Process class will present original plays and published dramatic literature today at 7:30 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but ticketed. Call 574-631­2800 for tickets. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will present its spring concert today from 8 
p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The concert will fea­ture Mahler’s “Symphony no. 1” and Debussy’s “Prelude to Afternoon of a Faun.” Ticket prices range from $3 to $6 and can be purchased at per­formingarts.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight saturday sunday monday tuesday 



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


58 50 HIGH 6953 5557
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


39 41 LOW 4940 3943 






Friday, April 29, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 29, 2011 




Professor reflects on freedom conflict in Syria 


By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Conflict in Syria continues to intensify as peaceful protesters campaigning for freedom face excessive violence from presi­dent Bashar al-Assad’s dictatori­al regime, said Emad Shahin, professor of religion, conflict and peacebuilding at the Kroc Institute. 
“These peaceful demonstrators were met by a crackdown on the part of Assad’s regime,” Shahin said. “The police applied very oppressive and brutal measures against them ranging from detentions, arrests, torture and of course firing live ammunition and bullets against them in order to quell them.” 
Shahin said Syrian dissenters have similar goals as those of revolutionaries from neighboring countries, especially achieving freedom of expression through the media and freedom of assembly through political party formation. 
“Their demands are very uni­versal in essence and very simi­lar in a large extent to the demands that were raised by the Tunisian 


“Of course my hope 
protestors, the nonviolent, at 
is that this conflict 
Egyptian pro-least on the part 
remains nonviolent, 
testers, the of the protestors 
Bahraini pro-at least on the part of and demonstra­testers,” Shahin the protestors and tors,” Shahin demonstrators.” 
said. said. “I know the Hundreds of state and the 
Emad Shanin
protesters have regime have been killed since professor been very violent uprisings began Kroc Institute and have been responding to the demands of the protesters will weaken the grip of the government over power,” Shahin said. “If they give freedom of expression and so on and so forth, that will expose the government and increase its vul­nerability.” 
Sectarian conflict between the Alawites, Syria’s ruling minority, and the majority Sunni Muslims has caused problems in Syria in the past, he said. 
“This is a major cleavage in society,” Shahin said. 
But Shahin said this religious tension is not an issue for the protesters. 
“In essence, it’s about democ­racy and freedom,” Shahin said. “It’s not about sects.” 
Shahin said Assad’s govern­ment has no plans to heed pro­testers’ demands. 
“There isn’t much in terms of reform that this regime can offer because it is ideologically bank­rupt,” Shahin said. “They will cling to power until the last breath.” 
Despite continued acts of vio­lence on the part of Assad’s regime, Shain said dissenters 
should remain 
peaceful. 
“Of course my 
hope is that this 
conflict remains 
over a month ago, and the government continues to employ inhumane methods of suppressing demonstrations, Shahin said. 
“Some of the video clips that were taken by cell phones and so on show, of course, a very savage treatment of the protesters, even after they have been pacified and arrested,” Shahin said. “[There are] shots of militia jumping over dead bodies and kicking them in the face and hitting them with the butt of machine guns.” 
Shahin said the purpose of the Syrian government’s brutal response to recent uprisings is to maintain the strength of the regime in light of the recent defeats of ruling parties in simi­lar countries. 
“The government realizes, given the example of Tunisia and Egypt and so on, that … 
very brutal, but 
this should not 
be met by a 
counter violence from the protestors.” 
Shahin said nonviolent demon­stration will advance the cause of the protesters further than violence would. 
“This will increase the legiti­macy of their demands,” Shahin said. “This will also increase … international support for the movement, and will finally dele­gitimize the regime.” 
Shahin said the conflict in Syria will be resolved as long as protesters rely on peaceful measures to achieve their goals. 
“The cost, of course, will be very high … because the regime is brutal,” Shahin said. “But in the long run … the peaceful pro­testers will win the day.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 





Sorin hosts kickball tourney 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Just weeks before gradua­tion, seniors have the oppor­tunity to remember former classmate Kevin Healey this weekend. Healey lost his bat­tle with osteosarcoma, a rare form of bone cancer, two years ago. 
The men of Sorin College will honor Healey Sunday with the first memorial Kick It for Kevin kickball tourna­ment. 
Senior Javi Zubizarreta, a close friend of Healey’s, said the idea for the tournament began when Healey’s father contacted him a few months ago. 
“He asked us to organize a tournament here at Notre Dame and to make it an ongoing event in honor of Kevin and in support of pedi­atric cancer research,” he said. 
The tournament is also an event for Kick-It, an organi­zation based in Healey’s hometown of Cleveland, Ohio, that organizes kickball tournaments to raise money for children’s cancer research. 
“Kevin’s family has worked with [Kick-It] in the past to organize tournaments in the community and to help raise money,” Zubizarreta said. “His family has raised about $6,000 through kickball tour­naments so far.” 
All proceeds from Kick-It tournaments benefit CureSearch for Children’s Cancer, an organization that funds the world’s largest pediatric cancer research collaborative, the Children’s Oncology Group. 
Despite the efforts of these es, doing well.” organizations, Zubizarreta Zubizarreta said the tour-said pediatric research is nament is especially mean-largely underfunded, con-ingful for graduating seniors trary to popular belief. who knew and were close 
“These fundraising efforts with Healey. really are very needed,” he “It’s a way to come togeth­
said. “There’s  er and support  
so much more  a  cause  Kevin  
that needs to  was passionate  
b e  d o n e  t o  a b o ut  a n d  t o  
h e l p th e patients and t hei r f a m i -lies.” S o r i n v i c e p r e s i d e n t M a x M aie r said the tour-n a m e n t w i l l  “It’s a way to come together and support a cause Kevin was passionate about and to support hin in a way he would enjoy, one last time before we all go our separate ways.”  support him in a w a y h e w ou l d e n j oy, one la st ti me before we all g o ou r s e pa -rate ways,” he said. M a i e r s a i d  
o p er a t e i n a r o u n d -r o b i n  Javi Zubizarreta  Sori n doesn’t have any goals  
s t y l e  f o r m a t  senior  for the tourna­ 

in which each team is guar­anteed to play at least three games. The winning team, as well as the best-dressed and best-named teams, will receive a trophy, he said. 
“You can show up pretty much anytime and still play, and you can sign up that day too,” Maier said. “We allotted time so you can do both Muddy Sunday and the tour­nament.” 
Although Healey arrived at Notre Dame in the midst of his chemotherapy treatment, Zubizarreta said his class­mates would never have known Healey was fighting cancer if they were not already aware of his illness. 
“He just had this amazing fight, this amazing spirit while he was here,” he said. “He never wanted to talk about his sickness or have any preferential treatment. He just carried on like any other student, going to class­ment this year 
besides publi­
cizing the event to students. 
“We want people to know about it and remember it for next year when it comes up again,” he said. “We really hope to make it an annual event.” 
Kick It for Kevin will take place Sunday from 12 to 6 
p.m. at Stepan Fields. 

Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


Friday, April 29, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Kingston highlights annual SMC Tostal 


Conferencetacklesbodyimage 
took place in the Student chance to work on the other 
By KATIE CARLISLE 
Center conference rooms, side of event planning.” 
News Writer 
included projects about Fischer said she thought 
female body image, includ-the greatest achievement of 
Students presented ing an exhibit called “The the conference was giving research and engaged in Price of Beauty,” which dis-students the chance to share dialogue about female body played beauty products and their projects. image Thursday during the their prices. “Students have a chance to third annual Bold Beauty The idea for the student-work on a project all semes-Conference at Saint Mary’s run conference stemmed ter so it ’s interesting to College, but one of the most from assistant professor of watch them interact with the interesting exhibits at the communications Terri Russ’s people attending the confer-conference involved popular F e m a l e e n c e , ” high-fashion dolls. Beauty class, F i s c h e r 
“Barbies on Parade” dis-which is only said. “It played several Barbie dolls open to jun -gives you a dressed as stereotypes of iors and sen-chance to 
“The course is only 
women today, such as Jersey iors, student see what 
open to certain students 
Shore Barbie and conference s t u d e n t s
because you need to be 
Homewrecker Barbie. coordinator can really 
mature to take the class 
Student conference coordi-M o l l y do.” 
and be able to talk about 
nator Hannah Fischer said G a h a g a n In addi ­
sensitive subjects and 
the exhibit is a major draw said. tion to pro-
argue your opinions.” 
for the conference. “The course v i d i n g a n “‘Barbies on Parade’ has is only open arena for 
Molly Gahagan
gotten really popular, so to certain s h a r i n g
conference coordinator
that ’s our pull, ” Fischer s t u d e n t s research said. because you and facili ­
But the primary event of need to be tating dis ­the conference involved a mature to c u s s i o n , lecture by senior Christina take the class G a h a g a n Grasso, who discussed the and be able to talk about said one of the primary misconceptions surrounding sensitive subjects and argue goals of the conference is eating disorders and her your opinions, ” Gahagan simply becoming more personal struggle with the said. aware of the issues sur ­issue. Fischer said her participa-rounding female body 
“I believe it is imperative tion in the Female Beauty image. to address c o u r s e “The issues in the confer-this topic allowed her ence are really important because peo-to take a because they bring a lot to ple really p r o a c t i v e your attention,” she said. “I 
“[Eating disorders] 
need to hear role in plan-think the most important 
are such a stereotyped 
t h e t r u t h , ” ning the con-thing is just becoming more 
issue, and we rarely get 
Grasso said. ference, aware.” 
accurate information 
“[Eating dis-which allows Fischer agreed that aware-
because it is such a
orders] are students to ness about female body 
sensitive topic.” 
s u c h a present their image is an important factor stereotyped o w n in young women’s decisions. 
Molly Gahagan
issue, and we research “Be aware of how you’re 
conference coordinator
rarely get while run -being pulled in different a c c u r a t e ning the con-directions and all the effects information f e r e n c e media has on you,” she said. because it is themselves. “You should always know such a sensitive topic. But I “Molly [Gahagan] and I are why you’re making the deci­am able to overcome this alums of the Female Beauty sions you make.” hardship and spread aware-class, so we were asked to ness for others.” help run the conference,” Contact Katie Carlisle at 
The conference, which Fischer said. “It gives us a kcarli02@saintmarys.edu 
news about the wedding and “The country absolutely the royal couple through closed down, ” she said. 

Royal 
People magazine and Twitter “They closed down roads updates. everywhere. We were all at 
continued from page 1 
“If I was there right now I street parties.” in really big displays of wed-would probably need a While she was unsure if ding pageantry,” she said. restraining order because I she would wake up early “I’m not necessarily interest-w o u l d b e s o enough to view ed in the royal family… I am excited, ” she the entire cere­really excited to see the said. mony, Smyth dress and then the kiss on The royal said she was 
“People in England excited to 
the balcony.” family repre -see 
really, really do love 
In order to see all the sents more Middl eton’s morning ’s events, Saint than just a the royal family.” wedding dress Mary’s senior Sarah Mayer fancy wedding, in the high ­
Mary Smyth 
said she plans to wake up at Mayer said. lights from the 
4:30 a.m. Friday to watch the “I think the English professor morning wedding despite her early royal family pageantry. classes. stands for a The Friday “It’s questionable if I will certain level of wedding of 
be in my class,” she said, classiness,” she said. “[The Middleton and Prince “But I will say that the royal wedding] is so much bigger William is a bright spot dur­wedding takes precedence than themselves, so much ing a difficult time for over my 9 a.m. bigger than England, a respite from the class.” just William tumult in the royal family 
Mayer’s love getting mar -and the economic downturn, 
affair with the ried. America’s she said. monarchy “I’m not necessarily great, but we “People in England really, began when interested in the don ’t have really do love the royal fami­she was a little royal family... I am those thou -ly,” she said. “And the family girl. She said really excited to see sands of years has had a really rough time her mother ’s the dress and then of history, and over the last 15 years. This love for the kiss on the a certain wedding [occurs] at really a Princess Diana balcony.” degree of that rough point in British histo­spurred her history is in ry… especially with the eco­fascinati on Anne Reser their blood in nomic collapse that has been with royalty. senior England.” as bad [in England] as here 
“I have English in the United States, in always wanted Professor Mary Indiana and Michigan. This to marry Smyth grew up wedding is a cause for cele-Prince Harry,” she said. “I in London and said she bration.” have just grown up around remembered Princess Diana’s news about the royal family.” wedding to Prince Charles Contact Megan Doyle at 
Mayer said she follows when she was a teenager. mdoyle11@nd.edu 


By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s student body enjoyed a week of food, fun and games during SMC Tostal in celebration of the end of the academic year, which culminated with a concert by singer Sean Kingston Thursday. 
“The concert was actually a lot of fun,” senior Laura Arnold said. “It’s a great way to have the end of the year kind of come to a close.” 
Kingston entertained stu­dents with hit songs, including “Eenie Meenie” and “Fire Burning.” He tweeted about his arrival in South Bend Thursday morning, and sophomore Alex Sassano retweeted Kingston’s message on her Twitter profile. 
“I started my day off listening to Sean Kingston’s songs,” she said. 
Some students were so enthusiastic about Kingston’s performance that they staked out seats in the O’Laughlin Auditorium at 5:30 p.m. even though the concert did not begin until 7:30 p.m. 
“I just wanted to make sure that I could see everything, specifically Sean Kingston,” sophomore Julie Novak said. 
Junior Katie Greenspon expressed her excitement prior to the concert. 
“I’ve gone to SMC Tostal every single year to see the special guest they bring,” she said. “I got myself a new pair of sunglasses and a t-shirt to go with them, and I’m really excited. It’s going to be the best night.” 

A comedy show entertained the crowd until Kingston’s per­formance began at 9 p.m. Students cheered and sang along as he performed his hits, but the biggest crowd-pleaser was “Letting Go (Dutty Love),” which features Nicki Minaj in the recorded version. 
Overall, students were pleased with Kingston’s per­formance. 
“It’s a great way to end the night, and now I can get some sleep and watch the royal wed­ding first thing tomorrow morning,” senior Kelly Daly said. 
Although SMC Tostal week was accompanied by several days of inclement weather, this did not prevent students from enjoying the planned festivities indoors, including a carnival that offered free food, sun­glasses and games. 
“They had a waffle thing that you can cover with whatever you want. It’s delicious,” soph­omore Paige Edmonds said. “This was a great study break after a week full of homework, exams and papers.” 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 29, 2011 


Night 
continued from page 1 
Moriarty said. “This was simply a great opportunity to be in solidarity with other campuses across the nation.” 
Saint Mary’s BAVO, estab­lished in April 2010, will co-host TBTN with Notre Dame for the first time this year. Adams said making the event a collaborative effort between Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame was a logical action. 
“A strong component of Take Back the Night is soli ­darity, ” she said. “Because 

the communi -“There are sides of said. ties of Saint Notre Dame that “[Survivors Mary’s College aren’t so flattering, and allies] and the but to heal they must have differ ­University of be opened.” ent questions, Notre Dame are struggles and deeply inter -Elizabeth Moriarty pains. They twined, it is assistant director might deal logical and with religious 
Gender Relations Center
beneficial for us to stand together to sup­port survivors of violence and demonstrate that violence is not one of our community values.” 
Moriarty said the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s com­munities have been especial­ly affected by sexual assault and abuse. 
“Institutionally, we have wounds. There are sides of Notre Dame that aren’t so flattering, but to heal they must be opened,” she said. 
The TBTN events began at 7 p.m. with a walk from Lake Marian on Saint Mary’s campus to the Grotto at Notre Dame for a candlelight vigil. Following Bellacapella performed at the closing reception as par­ticipants celebrated the event, Moriarty said. 
“I think [the event] is important because these crimes are often shrouded in silence, ” Moriarty said. “[Victims’] voices are taken away and they don’t know how to speak to anyone, even themselves. It ’s an opportunity to give a voice to the silent and know they are not alone.” 
The TBTN events allow for different points of entry in the healing process because experiences with sexual assault and rape are var­ied and per ­sonal, Cleary 
the vigil, TBTN 

“There are people 
committee plan-“We live in a
who have experienced 
ners led a society
what you have 
march around where vio ­
experienced, and 
Notre Dame ’s lence is an 
even if they haven’t, 
campus. epidemic.” 
there are people who 
“This is defi -Cleary said 
want to help you.” 
nitely not a she believes silent march, ” TBTN will 
Elizabeth Moriarty 
Saint Mary ’s have a last-
assistant director
junior and ing impact BAVO student Gender Relations Center on both cam-
worker Cat Cleary said. “We’re going to be loud and visible in order to raise awareness of this issue.” 
After the march, the group shared personal stories in a “Speak Out” session to break the silence surrounding vio­lence suffered by members in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities. 
“A lot of the people are survivors or friends of those affected by sexual violence. For some people it’s the first time they tell their stories,” Notre Dame senior Mariah McGrogan said. “It’s an inti­mate and sacred time.” 
Student musical groups Harmonia, Halftime and questions and 
might not 
want to go to 
the Grotto, so they ’ll march, ” she said. “Others want that religious healing, making Grotto the ideal place.” 
Adams said raising aware­ness and promoting action to end violence is essential, and the community is responsible for initiating change and supporting survivors. 
“While dialogue has increased surrounding the issues of sexual assault, relationship violence and stalking this academic year, these issues have impacted and continue to impact col­lege campus­es across the c o u n t r y, ” Adams said. 
puses 
because it 
unites men and women — allies and sur­vivors — in breaking the silence and creating a com­munity of healing. 
“I want people to know they aren’t alone in their suffering, ” Moriarty said. “There are people who have experienced what you have experienced, and even if they haven’t, there are peo­ple who want to help you. There are opportunities for healing, and you don’t have to go it alone.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chous01@saintmarys.edu and Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 



Relay 
continued from page 1 
The Fire Fighting Irish, comprised of members of the Notre Dame Fire Department (NDFD), was the top fundraising team. They sold 2,500 T-shirts, sweatshirts, baseball caps and knit caps with the NDFD logo, team captain Mary Weigle said. The apparel sales earned more than $15,000 for ACS. 
“We ’ve been doing [the apparel sales] now for about five years, and over the years it has grown, ” Weigle said. “We started out just selling T-shirts to people who would walk into the firehouse. Before you knew it, we were mailing them all over the place.” 
The top student fundrais­ing team, the Pasquerilla East Pyros, sold 130 themed T-shirts to raise money, captain Katie Marshall said. Team mem­bers submitted the names 
of people for whom they wanted to relay and the names were written in a spiral on the backs of the shirts. Each shirt also bears the image of an eter­
nal flame  as  a  symbol for  
the team.  
“ S i n c e w e ’ r e  t h e  P y r o s ,  

we thought [the image of the eternal flame] was fit­ting,” Marshall said. 
About 50 members of the Pasquerilla East Pyros emailed their friends and families to ask for dona ­tions, Marshall said. The email solicitations and the T-shirt sales earned more than $9,000 for ACS. 
Megan Hrdlicka, captain of the second-highest stu­dent fundraising team, Ryan Hall Relay, said her team raised money by wrapping gifts at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore at the end of the fall semester, collecting money at Ryan Hall masses 


Heeter said he is excited about the generosity of the Jail ‘n Bail participants. 
“To get 20 people at $25 dollars per person, that’s over $500,” he said. “I’m 
and organiz ­ing several bake sales. The team earned approximate­ly $1,200 through these fundraisers, she said. 
“I think this year our goals were to expand Ryan ’s pres ­ence at Relay, have a strong showing [and] kind of establish in the event as 
thankful peo­ple are willing to participate and spend “Relay for Life is a their hard ­very personal cause earned money 
for me. It’s going to for such a be neat to have good cause.” everyone at the Marshall 
event to represent said the part our dorm.” of Relay for Life she is Megan Hrdlicka most looking captain forward to is 
Ryan Hall Relay the Luminaria 
our place a dorm, ” 
Hrdlicka said. 
Team Book ‘Em is holding its first annual Jail ‘n Bail fundraiser today from 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m., Notre Dame Security Police Lt. George Heeter said. The team is comprised of members from the Notre Dame Security Police, McKenna Hall, the Hesburgh Library, the Morris Inn and the Bookstore. 
Students, faculty and staff can arrange for uniformed police and security officers to “arrest ” someone and take him or her to a fake jail in Notre Dame Stadium, Heeter said. All proceeds from the $25 arrest fees support Relay for Life. 
“We actually pick the per­son up, put the cuffs on them and take them to the stadium jail,” Heeter said. “They have to stay there for a maximum of a half hour. If they don’t want to go to jail, they can pur ­chase a ‘get out of jail free’ card for a minimum of $5.” 
Ceremony. 
“It ’s this really great part of the event where we 
ho n or a ll  th e pe opl e tha t  
w e  k n o w  w h o  h a v e  h a d  
c a n c e r, ”  s h e  s a i d .  

“Generally, they have the bagpipes [play], and it’s a very beautiful moment.” 
Hrdlicka said she is excit­ed about the support she received from the members of her dorm. 
“Relay for Life is a very personal cause for me,” she said. “It’s going to be neat to have everyone at the event to represent our dorm.” 
Weigle said Relay for Life holds special significance for her. 
“The gentleman I’m dat­ing is a cancer survivor and he was asked to walk a lap, so that’s probably going to be a good point for me the day of the event,” she said. “I’m also looking forward to everybody supporting people who have had can­cer and continually trying to strive to find a cure.” 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Friday, April 29, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 



‘Birther’ bill angers blacks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Shortly after President Barack Obama declared himself an American-born citizen with papers to prove it, Baratunde Thurston declared himself a disgusted black man. 
“I find it hard to summarize in mere words the amount of pain and rage this incident has caused,” Thurston said. 
“This” would be the nation’s first black president standing in the White House, blue power suit and all, going 
on TV to debunk, in more detail than before, the per­sistent, he-ain’t-really-an-American rumors fanned anew by Donald Trump, the developer and might-be pres­idential candidate. 
Many African -Americans responded to Wednesday’s scene with a large sigh. The rumors and the controversy had a particular, troubling resonance for them: They’ve seen, heard, lived, the legiti­macy of black people being called into question so many times before that, they said, they weren’t shocked to see it happen to Obama over some­thing as simple as a birth certificate. 
But they were sad about it, too, seeing what they felt was a high-level manifestation of the idea that when a black person accomplishes some­thing great there must be something wrong. 
“The stress of feeling con­stantly called into question, constantly under surveil ­lance, has emotional and physical consequences for us,” said Imani Perry, a pro­fessor at Princeton University’s Center for African American Studies. “It also puts us in the position of not being able to be con ­stituents, with respect to our politicians, because we feel we have to constantly protect the president. ... You see peo­ple attacking him, and he’s the president, what happens to those of us who are not the president?” 


This week, black people struggled to deal with what many of them perceived as a racially motivated dis of Obama at the hands of Trump and the “birther” movement. Fleeting thoughts about boy­cotting Trump’s hotels and casinos, or pressuring adver­tisers to pull away from Trump ’s “Celebrity Apprentice” reality TV show bounced around Facebook and Twitter, the barbershops, the suites and the corner. 
Much of it was just a notion, however. At the end of the day, many blacks said they remained at a loss for how best to process the false­hood that just won’t die. 
Obama said he had “watched with bemusement” as people kept alive for two years the idea that he might have been born outside the United States and therefore wasn’t eligible to sit in the White House. “I’ve been puz­zled at the degree to which this thing just kept on going,” Obama said. He added that he understood the copy of the official birth certificate he produced still wouldn ’t silence all believers in this “silliness.” 
Ellis Cose, author of an upcoming book that explores anger and race, said there is a sense that Obama has become the lightning rod for a general longing among cer­tain whites to “take America back to a time when people like Obama could not be president.” For blacks, that’s “clearly an aggravation, ” Cose said. 
“A lot of folks are amused, and a lot of folks are upset about this,” Cose said. “In addition to uncertainty about the economy and America’s place in the world, a lot of people who grew up in confi­dence that America was a very white country are hav­ing that reality shaken.” 
Trump, who may or may not seek the Republican pres­idential nomination, stepped up to a microphone in New Hampshire within minutes of Obama’s appearance to claim credit for forcing the presi­dent’s hand. He said he still wanted to scrutinize the birth certificate to make sure it’s legit. 
Trump also wants to eye­ball Obama’s college grades, in search of bogusness around the bachelor’s and law degrees the president got from Columbia and Harvard respectively. Trump said he’d “heard” Obama was a poor student unworthy of an Ivy League education, but 
offered no real proof. Obama ’s senior adviser, Valerie Jarrett, said Thursday that the president will not release his tran ­scripts. 
“We know this is non ­sense,” Jarrett said on radio host Joe Madison’s Sirius/XM talk show. 


JAPAN 
Buddhists remember victims of tsunami 

Associated Press 
SOMA, Japan — Buddhist priests burned incense and chanted Thursday for Japan’s tsunami victims, marking the 49th day since the disaster and closing the period when the dead were believed to be wandering restlessly through destroyed hometowns. 
About 1,200 mourners filled a hall to overflowing, with many standing outside a gate, for a ceremony organized by 170 priests in the northeast­ern town of Soma, where much of the coast remains buried in mountains of debris from the March 11 earth­quake and tsunami. 
Many carried framed photo­graphs of lost loved ones, and wept. Some clutched wooden tablets containing Buddhist names assigned to the dead to help them find their way into their next phase of existence. 
“There are so many still missing. There are people lost at the bottom of the sea who will never be found. But this is the day they become Buddhas. We pray for them all, and for all sentient beings,” Buddhist priest Kojin Sato said. 
Overall, the quake and tsunami is believed to have killed nearly 26,000 people, though only about 14,500 bodies have been found. Many likely were swept out to sea and will never be found. 
Kiyoshi Sakurai fears that will be the case with his elder brother, missing since the dis­aster. 
“It’s very difficult because we couldn’t have a proper funeral. But this gives us some feeling of closure,” Sakurai said, clutching a blurry photo of his brother. 
“It was comforting to have so many priests come to pray for our relatives. Maybe someday my brother will be found. Maybe not. But he has at least had this,” he said. 
Many Japanese share Buddhist beliefs with the native Japanese religion of Shinto, which worships spirits in nature and dead ancestors. Virtually all rites related to death are Buddhist, and in many Japanese schools of Buddhist thought, the dead wander near their homes for 49 days before heading into their next stage of existence on the 50th day. 
The Dalai Lama, the spiritu­al leader of Tibetan Buddhists, was visiting Japan on Thursday and scheduled to join in another memorial in Tokyo later this week. Spokesmen for the religious leader said he had altered his schedule to be in Japan for the 49th day since the disas­ter. 
Seven weeks after the mag­nitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami struck, some 130,000 people are still living in about 2,500 shelters. The govern­ment has promised to build 30,000 temporary homes for them by the end of May and another 70,000 after that. 
The head of the American Red Cross, wrapping up a four-day visit to Japan, said the $187 million it received in donations and pledges for Japanese tsunami relief is buying essential household appliances such as rice cook­ers for people living in tempo­rary housing. 
Gail McGovern said she had difficulty to processing the “miles and miles” of devasta­tion she saw along Japan’s northeastern coast. 
“The [power of the] ocean was just furious. Everything we saw was strewn in small pieces,” she said in an inter­view with The Associated Press in Tokyo. “When you start walking around, you can see a doll or a kid’s bicycle or a teacup. It just strikes home that this is so personal.” 
In Soma, Sato said that said local temples invited anyone to come to the ceremony and told the bereaved not to worry about dressing in black, since many people had lost their formal clothes. The priest added that instead of the usual gifts passed out after funerals, the bereaved were given bags with bottles of water, tea and soap — things that they might need in shelters or temporary hous­ing. 
The ceremony closed with a silent procession before an altar. The only sound was chanting and occasional weeping. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, April 29, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Major decisions 
Congratulations. You’ve just declared your major! Other than DARTing, that was the highlight of this past week for me. 
Wednesday afternoon: I finally walked into Flanner and nervously asked where I was 
supposed to go. Pressing the button to the eleva­tor, stepping in and going up, up, up. I walk out and see it’s the wrong floor. Whoops. Let’s try again. Back into the elevator. I look at the buttons and can’t help but imagine how annoyed the people in that tiny metal 


Nicole Toczauer 
box with me would 

News 
be if I slid my hands 

Production 
down the row and 

Editor 
cried, “It’s a 

Christmas tree!” like Buddy the Elf… Mature. I resist the tempta­
tion and reach the correct floor. 

Walk around until you find the right door. Sit down, fill out the paper work and you’re good to go! It’s exciting — you feel like you have some sort of direction in life, a set of goals to work toward, whether it be a senior thesis, pursuing research or just learning something you love. Even as an itty-bitty freshman (but not for long now!), you’re headed somewhere. Looking at the classes you realize this is what you’ll specialize in. But what if you change your mind? What if you change it again after that? This may happen, but regardless of how many paths you start down and never see to the end, you end up getting somewhere. It seems to just all work out. 
Though I’ve finally declared my major — and I’m extremely excited about it — I real­ize there is so much more outside of all of the majors, minors and supplements that go down on a transcript. In interviews I’ve had for articles I’ve written this past year, espe­cially in those concerning academia, I’ve heard again and again: “Do something you love.” In one interview with Dean Page, I recall the following advice: 1) to “sit quietly and discern what is really important at the very deepest levels of one’s existence;” 2) to “solicit honest feedback from trusted men­tors;” and 3) to “realize that a decision need not be seen as irreversible.” 
Granted, I’m speaking with extremely little experience, but Notre Dame students: As you go out this summer, think about these things. When you look for a job or intern­ship, see if it’s something that you are truly satisfied doing, or if it’s something that could lead you to that point. This is you, out in the field, a training ground of sorts. Test the waters and see how you react. If you have an enlightening experience, have the courage to act on it, whether it leads you to continue what you’re doing or if it takes you down a different path. 
For graduating students: You’ve gone through the paces. You’ve earned your degree and are setting out for a job. Congratulations! Still, there’s so much more learning to do. 
Looking to my mentors, parents and those wiser than myself, I’ve been able to see that even if you take a complete 180 in terms of where you’re headed, it might be right for you. An engineer might reevaluate his life and decide to become a photographer. True. Or he may continue as an engineer and love his job. Also true. 
As important as majors are in molding the path you take, I think it’s more about the experiences you gain in studying the subject and working with mentors who inspire you. 
Summertime is coming, so I’d encourage everyone reading this to consider where you are currently positioned and how you feel about where you might be going. Honestly, I know this is just my opinion, but be bold. This is another opportunity to figure out what you want to do. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Happy job hunting 

So I’m walking down the street in downtown South Bend to the bus stop following an interview for a part-time job this summer. Now you’re probably thinking that I’m a sophomore looking to find some way to supplement my income so I 
Randi Beem 
can “get down on Friday” 
Guest 
during the 

Columnist 
school year as the immense­ly talented Rachel Black sings since a. I’m using the bus and don’t have a car and b. I’m getting a summer job. However, I am neither of those things. I’m just looking for a way to make some money to help pay off the debt I got sen­ior year. In a lot of ways, I truly do not understand how I got here. 
I choose a good liberal arts college, studied hard, and scored a good GPA. I have extracurricular activities, fabulous references, and have held various jobs. Why don’t I have people begging for me to work for their company? Is it possible I’m meant for other opportunities rather than having a job this summer? Maybe just maybe I’ll win the lottery, decide to take a trip to London meet Prince Harry then we fall madly in love. I pull a Kate Middleton, become a princess and I can live off of his millions, get a title and get these loans out of my hair. Highly unlikely — but I can dream. If that does­n’t work then maybe I’ll join the Air Force and there will be a Royal Air Force Ball with the United States Air Force. At this ball, Harry spots me from across the room, brings me a vodka cranberry (my favorite) and asks me to dance to “Walking on Broken Glass” by Annie Lennox, a Backer favorite. 
This scenario is also highly unlikely, a. because I wouldn’t pass the fitness test to enter the Air Force since I cannot even run to the Grotto from Holy Cross Hall and b. growing up in rural Indiana, my dad tried to have me shoot a deer and I promptly dropped the gun, cried “What if the deer has children?” and sulked in the car, so I feel like fighting humans would be even harder on my psyche. 
Or am I destined to wait for my life to be fabulous until I’m in my thirties like the ladies of Sex and the City? Do I just have to live with the Payless shoes until I reach the age of thirty-five and then I get to buy Manolo Blahnik stilettos and have a real people career? This question leads me to another: do your twenties just stink and feel restless until you reach your thirties when you’re in a more comfortable place in life? Also, is there any way we can speed up this process, much like Adam Sandler did in the highly underrated film Click, and fast-forward or possibly rewind to a time when we’re a lot happier and uncertainty isn’t the name of the game? 
On the opposite end of this dilemma, despite being preoccupied with this con­cept of wanting to get rid of loans, I also feel compelled, like I’m sure many of us do, to find a career that makes me happy and helps me feel like I’m serving the larger community and God as well. So in closing here, I am at this cross­roads of getting a job or applying to graduate or law school. However, I have to hope that, as Robert Frost declared, taking the road less traveled makes all the difference and that picking a path on this crossroads hopefully makes a differ­ence in my bank account, community, security of mind and shoe collection. 
Happy job hunting ... and Prince hunt­ing. 
Randi Beem is a senior at Saint Mary’s. She can be contacted at rbeem01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Campus safety 

Dear Administration, 
In light of recent efforts to ensure the safety of students on the local campuses, I feel as though Wednesday night’s events were not handled well at all. I did not know specific details about what transpired that evening. However, when I heard from Twitter and Facebook that there was some sort of attack on campus and to “be safe” when out that evening, I felt as though that raised quite a cause for concern. After calling NDSP to inquire about my fellow students’ and my per­sonal safety, I was met with answers like: “not able to discuss at this time” and “call the Administration Office tomorrow morning.” I mean, I live a stone’s throw from Fisher Grad Apartments, maybe I should have knocked on Father Jenkins’ door and he could have given me a better clue about what was going on. With advanced systems like ND Alert that are put in place for student safety, why, in this scenario, were they not being utilized? 
As a resident of Virginia, my high school and neighborhood felt the direct impact of the Virginia Tech tragedy. Schools and universities have invested large amounts of money to protect their students from harm. So where was the disconnect in what happened that evening? According to Twitter and Facebook, it had been more than 45 minutes since said “attack” and I still hadn’t heard any more information. Wouldn’t having 8,000 plus pairs of nosy, undergradu­ate eyes in the loop about what was going on help spot a suspect or suspi­cious person? Or prevent an attack on someone else for that matter? All sar­casm aside, I feel that what happened tonight should have been handled dif­ferently by Campus Authorities. As I said before, I do not have the specifics, but I look forward to finding out what happened and I pray that everyone is alright. 

Tommy Reagan 
senior off campus April 28 
Just say no to... 

Dating. And S.B. 292. What do they have in common? They both loosen the guns. There are currently four gun bills making their way through the Indiana House, and Senate Bill 292 (S.B. 292) is one of them. The bill proposes a general gun law for the state of Indiana, prohibiting any local government from regulating possession of firearms. What this bill fails to recognize is that every town has their own dilemma concerning guns; passing this bill would leave certain towns powerless to protect their populace and punish gun-related crimes. 
Criminals take advantage of people's decency, knowing that good people will obey the law. They cannot be negotiated with, not even by law-abiding gun owners. Although many of us are not citizens of Indiana, this bill, if passed, puts us in the crosshairs. If you want to take a stand and keep South Bend gun-free, visit saynoto292.com or stop by South Dining Hall on April 28th from 6-8 p.m. to sign postcards to send to our state governor. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life is something that happenswhen you can't get to sleep.” 
Fran Lebowitz 
U.S. writer and humorist 

Jules Kim 
senior Knott Hall April 28 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We would accomplish many morethings if we did not think of them asimpossible.” 
Vince Lombardi 
U.S. football coach 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, April 29, 2011 page 9 
Seniors, be fierce 
With graduation looming, seniors hear all manner of advice and well wishes which ultimately are forgotten as the years pass. My commencement speaker, a university president, was so boring and uninspiring that he truly fit into the stereotypical cari­cature of an eso-Gary Caruso teric intellectual. Sadly, nothing of Capitol note remains with Comments me today other than the memory of a chuckle because several of my class­mates either stood naked under their gowns or hid bottles of Champaign. The late humorist Art Buchwald masterfully set a goal for each graduation speech, to leave a feeling rather than a thought — everyone should remember that they laughed during commencement. 
Using such sage graduation guidance, I suggest that seniors simply be “fierce” during commencement and recognize their fierce factor throughout their lives. No, it is not the effeminate trade-marked fierceness of noted fashion designer and Project Runway winner Christian Siriano 
— “not that there’s anything wrong with that” to quote the iconic “Outing” episode from Seinfeld that masterfully juxtaposed the extremes of homophobia with politi­cal correctness. My half-naked class­mates clutched their immature fierce­ness that day and carried it throughout life. Beware graduating seniors that your own personal fierce factor begins at com­mencement. 
Seniors will learn like all of us before 
them and those who will follow — that each living day forges an evolving fierce factor wisdom which neither demands harshness nor inflexibility. We certainly are not born into this world as insightful as Yoda, but learn to feel the secrets of our universe that institutions unfortu­nately tend to deny and limit during our existence. Being fierce is being open to change. 
We know not from where we come, but my life experiences taught me to remain open-minded and willing to change all things. With that philosophy I reason that we have lived before, known each other before, are in fact reincarnat­ed into this world now and will again reincarnate somehow into the next realm to continue our journey of learning les­sons. For me, Heaven and Hell are also myths of ancient writers. Segments of our early Church may have expressed similar thought, but they hardly are mentioned possibilities in today’s Catholic dogma. Ironically, my religious and community experiences at Notre Dame helped open my mind for such a rationale. 
I entered Notre Dame certain in my beliefs as a Vietnam War-supporting, conservative-thinking small town kid until late my freshman year when I wit­nessed my fellow Kent State students gunned down by fellow Americans dur­ing an anti-war demonstration. It was my type of soul-shaking event like the awak­ening urge for freedom sweeping from within the souls of thousands throughout Syria today. My first serious life-moment 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Correcting inaccurate information 
It was with surprise, and then sadness, that I read Michael Martin’s letter to the editor on April 20, followed by Eddie Guilbeau’s commentary on Mr. Martin’s letter, both of which state and allude to inaccurate information that could be hurt­ful to, and reflect poorly on, those directly involved with the tragedies mentioned. 
The women’s swim team bus accident in January 1992 (not 1991) that claimed the lives of two of my teammates and left me temporarily paralyzed was devastating, and something none of us will ever forget. Prior to our leaving Northwestern to return to Notre Dame, I can state beyond a doubt, and contrary to the two letters to The Observer, that no phone call was made to the University inquiring about the weather conditions in regard to our travel home. No one who was directly involved sensed obvious danger, as it was only rain­ing when we left Chicago. To insinuate that our coaches did not feel they could make a decision to preserve our personal safety is insulting to three highly respected individuals. 
Living with tragedy in our lives is not easy, but it is comforting to have had the Notre Dame family lift us up in our heal­ing. I have prayed for the families of my teammates every day since January 1992. Over the past 19 years, I have added names to my prayer list, including the family of Declan Sullivan. Notre Dame is a community of faith that unites in prayer, especially in the face of tragedy. I firmly believe the University has and will contin­ue to take the steps necessary to ensure the well-being of all those within the Notre Dame family. May we all continue to do our part in strengthening our community in prayer. 
Haley Scott DeMaria 
alumnus class of 1995 Annapolis, MD April 28 

Poor Fredo 
I don’t like to knock our esteemed cartoonists. I know I have no chance of doing better. However, I saw something in PleasaNDville yesterday that truly offended me. Freddy Corleone is not Michael’s younger brother. Fredo is older than him, the middle child between Sonny and Michael. This is not just a minor detail; after Michael becomes the Godfather, Fredo feels betrayed, as if he was passed over. Freddy becomes involved in an assassination plot against Michael, who discovers his brother’s treachery and eventually has him killed at the end of the film. If you’re going to make a reference to important cultural figures, get the facts right. 
Tom Reilly 
junior Knott Hall April 28 
thought, “It could have been me lying dead.” 
Still a teenager at the time, I under­stood war. It now explained why my father, a World War II veteran, shied away from his memories of horrors, car­nage and senseless annihilation while fighting as a teenager. His fierce factor demanded he revert to civility by sup­pressing those years of his life when he should have laughed with classmates and only fretted over tests or homework deadlines. Instead, he buried his com­rades. 
A fierce person remains open-minded while still standing on principle. Too many of today’s politicians are so one-dimensional that they tip over whenever the wind changes direction. Notre Dame alumnus and U.S. Congressman Joe Donnelly represents the district contain­ing Notre Dame’s campus. He is fierce while standing on principle but also works for the general good through con­sensus and compromise. Conversely, Notre Dame alumnus and Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell is not fierce when he panders as a pro-life politician but refused to stay the execution of a woman convicted of murder who tested with an IQ of about 72. McDonnell reneged all pro-life principles when he put to death an actual life held only in his hands. 
To be fierce is to be free of hidden truths and pandering. Church history is rife with silly notions merely enacted for human, earthly reasons still held untouchable today. Consider marriage for priests…a rule ignored in 580 by Pope Pelagius II but promoted as an absolute ban in 1022 by Pope Benedict VIII so the church could acquire a priest’s property upon his death. In 1074, Pope Gregory VII strengthened the policy when he decreed that anyone ordained must first pledge celibacy. For today’s hierarchy to refuse even a discussion of such a long-held, man-made edict sadly contributes to the decline of our congre­gation. 
Lyrics of the Jefferson Airplane song, “Volunteers,” succinctly identify the struggles for individuality each graduat­ing class and each generation face. Today, when it seems like our current generation got “sold” in slavery to greed, the words still ring true. 
“Ain't it amazing all the people I meet. Got a revolution; got to revolution. One generation got old. One generation got soul. This generation got no destination to hold.” 
The fierce factor demands that seniors’ day-in and day-out living find a destina­tion to hold — which they will. Best of luck soon-to-be fierce fellow alumni. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Celebrating a life 
My friend Olivia’s birthday is today. She’s beautiful, energetic, talented and extremely smart. Throughout our friendship, she has pushed me to my greatest potential, encouraging me to be the best person I can academically, athletically, socially and spiritually. She was the one who introduced me to my relationship with Jesus Christ, and I could never thank her enough for that. Livi is an extremely impor­tant part of my life. Unfortunately, Olivia died almost five years ago. She was crossing the street on a rainy day and someone hit her. It was the end of my freshman year. She was 16. 
This year at Notre Dame, we have been faced with many challenges. We have lost peers and friends. I did not personally know Lizzy, Declan or Sean, nor do I know who they were close to. I do, however, know all too well the pain that comes with the death of a loved one. I remember the summer after Livi’s accident begging God to take the hurt away. All I want­ed to know was if the pain would ever subside.To those who knew the three who passed on this year: It gets bet­ter. I am still sad, still angry and still don’t understand why God took my best friend when she was so young. But now, on what would have been her 21st birthday, I can smile and not cry when I talk about her. I can cele­brate her life instead of mourning her death. To you on campus who feel a loss, any loss, you are not alone. Today, I’m remembering a friend, feeling her loss, but also rejoicing in the fact that she came into my life at all. She has made me a better person, she changed who I am for the better, and I look forward to the day when she meets me at the gates of Heaven. Until then, I continue to look to her for guidance and support. I celebrate her birthday today because that's what she would want me to do: cele­brate life and live every day to the fullest. 
Kara Mathis 
sophomore Lyons Hall April 28 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Friday, April 29, 2011 



It’s back. If you haven’t heard by now, Lake. take on the dominant defending cham-contractor. Though he and his crew are or seen the tank tops to match, this Granted, how many boats will actually pion O’Neill Hall. improvising, their method seems to be Sunday is the day “YOU GOTTA REGAT-float is questionable, but this is Notre “O’Neill has a boat that a mechanical working. TA!” Celebrating its 25th year of compe-Dame. Buoyancy — optional, Winning engineer made as a design project and “We might make this into a gondola tition, Sunday’s Fisher Regatta will have — necessary. it’s ridiculously fast,” he said. “But and have the one and only Joe Padgi teams rowing, racing, splashing and Rules: Boats must be homemade or we’ve gone up from our usual dorm serenade all of the people on beautiful facing off as they speed across the cold assembled from scavenged objects and total of two boats to six or seven for this Saint Mary’s Lake,” he said. “Hopefully waters of Saint Mary’s Lake. materials. With a history of crewmem-year.” it’ll float us.” 
Born in 1986, the Fisher Regatta has bers abandoning ship and leaping onto The Fisher fleet boasts two canoes, a Beyond the nails, screwdrivers, saws, proudly hosted the crazy, ingenious, other boats mid-race, crews must barge, a gondola and other ship-like blood, sweat and tears that go into bizarre and humorous watercraft cre-remain on their boats and cannot inten-contraptions, including a raft of inflat-making a boat worthy of the Fisher ations of Notre Dame students. tionally sink another team’s craft. Each able turtles. In assembling their arma-Regatta, tactics play an important role 
This year, with 41 boats entered, the race sets two teams head-to-head, nar-da, Fisher teams dismantled old lofts, come race day. Solidity, craftsmanship first commemorative $10 “YOU GOTTA rowing the competition to an elite hand-gathered donations and bought supplies and flags go a long way in intimidating REGATTA” tank top, music and a feast ful of crews that race against one at local home improvement stores. other teams. Beyond appearance, a of bratwurst and hotdogs fit to serve another at the end of the day. Fisher freshman Brett Ubl said his lightweight crew is key to a team’s suc­more than 1,000 people, Sunday’s Race commissioner and Fisher sopho-modified canoe is built from insulation cess. Then you just row until you can’t regatta is expected to draw a huge more Kevin Bell foam donat-row any more. crowd. Still, it’s the sportsmanship and said Fisher has ed to the competitive spirit that will have fans come out in team by a Contact Nicole Toczauer at cheering on the banks of Saint Mary’s full force to r o o f i n g ntoczaue@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Scene
Friday, April 29, 2011 page 11 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
“Skilled or Learned, Join our Army.” This first motto of Project Fresh was coined less than a decade ago, when a group of friends got together to learn and teach each other how to break-dance. In just the past three years, the club has grown from 10 members to over 50 active participants, and now refers to them­selves as the “PFresh Nation.” 
Today marks the 3rd Annual Project Fresh Show, entitled “Resonance.” Project Fresh, as well as dance groups all over campus, will be performing in Stepan Center starting at 7p.m. 
The beginning and end of the show this year will have freestyles in the crowd with a live DJ. Kyle Higdon, choreographer for three of the dances in the PFRESH set, is hoping for a par­ticipatory crowd. 
“The Project Fresh Show is a very interactive event with a club atmosphere,” Higdon said. “We want the crowd to feel involved and we encourage a rowdy audience yelling for their favorite group. It energizes us on stage.” 
A competitive format shapes the show this year. The competition is open to all student clubs, with half of the proceeds will go to the Boys and Girls Club of South Bend and the other half going to the winning group’s charity of choice. 
While the show is first and foremost a show for charity, it also raises awareness of the diverse dance groups on campus and gives them the opportunity to showcase all of their hard work. Natasha Bergstedt, co-president of the club, explained that the show has changed from simply exhibition pieces by performing clubs to a competition to make the charity aspect a more defining and inclusive theme. 
“This decision was made based on the knowl­
edge that there are many talented dancers in the ND community who do not have the time to be in a performing arts club. We hope that hav­ing more clubs involved will help to introduce the audience to other dance styles they may not be aware of around campus.” 
Some of the groups performing tonight are FASO, TransPose, TroopND, Notre Dame Pom Squad, Ballet Folklorico, KPop, Hawaii Club, Dance Co. and First Class Steppers. 
Project Fresh also represents great diversity in both its members and its styles of dance. The club hopes to educate the Notre Dame, Holy Cross, Saint Mary’s, and South Bend Community of the various dance styles of hip-hop including breakdancing, krumping, pop­ping, locking, waving and more. 
Throughout the year, members of the group have come to love Project Fresh. Carrie Ko, the 2011-2012 treasurer, has found lasting friend­ships among the diversity of the group. 
“Pfresh is my life and I am proud to belong to the family.” 
Project Fresh is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students, as well as some alumni guest performers and choreographers. Danielle Gies, next year’s PFun Committee chair, is choreographing an exhibition piece with Hunter Speese, next year’s Project Fresh Show Committee Chair. Gies encourages dance lovers to join. 
“Project Fresh is one of the best clubs on campus. Anyone can join, no matter what their skill level. The only requirement is that you want to dance!” 
The club has performed in cultural and fine arts events across campus this year including Asian Allure, Black Images, Fiestang and Latin Expressions, as well as Seoul’d Out, Digitize and The Shirt Unveiling. 
Kaitlin “Fiasco” Tiechman, a student at St. Mary’s in the club, has enjoyed her time with Project Fresh, saying, “Pfresh is a great way to relax, dance and forget what’s troubling you. Hip-hop saved my life.” 
Those attending have high expectations of the Pfresh Nation, and can expect it to be a great show by all performers. Phil Diamond, a Notre Dame junior, had only positive things to say about the group. 
“Pfresh is the greatest invention since the Cinnabon.” 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
On campus  
What: 3rd Annual Project Fresh Show —“Resonance” Where: Stepan CenterWhen: Friday, April 29th 7p.m., doors open at 6:30p.m.How much: Advance: $5 students, $7 non-students. At the door: $7 students, $10 non-students Learn more: pfresh@nd.edu  



The fifth installment of the “Fast and wound k one after them and must be fast in the Furious” franchise is set to release Janeir n, order to gun them down first. in theaters this Friday, and will to ga ut As usual, “Fast Five” will be an undoubtedly have all of the action and freedo s explosive movie with an abundance of thrill that made the series famous. Vin must action and ‘furiously’ fast cars. Those Diesel and Paul Walker reunite to lead last who enjoyed the first four installments returning cast members from each of assemb will not be disappointed. Following the the previous installments, including team o recipe of any good movie (The Rock + Chris “Ludacris” Bridges. ers to Ludacris = epic) there is little chance 
As usual, “Fast Five” is about high the co for “Fast Five” to be anything short of stakes races featuring former cop busine amazing. Brian O’Conner (Walker) and ex-con who Dom Toretto (Diesel). After Brian and them d Contact Ankur Chawla at Mia Toretto (Jordana Brewster) broke Aside achawla@nd.edu 
Dom 
strike team to capture the duo. 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 

they e Though Hobbs never misses his target, 
Scene Writer 

autho s he quickly learns that he’s not the only 

BRANDON KEELAN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 29, 2011 
NFL 

Panthers select Cam Newton with first pick 
Associated Press 
Cam Newton provided one of the few predictable moments, so far, in a bizarre NFL offseason. 
While the league’s labor dispute played out in the courts, the Heisman Trophy winner was selected No. 1, as expected, in Thursday night’s NFL draft, taken by the Carolina Panthers. 
Moments before the Auburn quarterback’s name was called by Roger Goodell, frustrated fans showered the NFL commissioner with chants of “We want football. We want football.” 
Goodell responded with a smile, saying, “I hear you. So do I.” 
Newton led Auburn to an unde­feated season and its first national championship since 1957. Carolina was 2-14 last year, using four quarterbacks, two of them rookies. 
“Man, it’s a great feeling to be up here,” said Newton, the third straight quarterback taken first overall. “It’s a great feeling to be a Carolina Panther.” 

Things got a little more surreal  negotiations are uncertain until  
when Texas A&M linebacker Von  the league announces its rules for  
Miller became the second pick,  the 2011 season — rules that  
selected by Denver. Miller, a plain- might be in force for only a short  
tiff in the antitrust lawsuit players  time if an appeal is granted.  
filed to block the lockout, strode  The draft was never in danger  
across the stage with tears in his  of being held because it was pro- 
eyes and hugged Goodell.  tected under the old collective bar­ 
“I didn’t have a clue about what  gaining agreement that expired in  
would happen,” Miller said, refer- March.  
ring to winding up with the  Buffalo selected Alabama nose  
Broncos.  tackle Marcell Dareus, who gave  
It was a strange opening for  Goodell an even bigger hug. Of  
what normally is a festive occa­ course, Dareus weighs 308  
sion. In this offseason of labor  pounds, about 70 more than  
strife, the league’s first work stop- Miller — and at least 100 more  
page since 1987 temporarily ends  than Goodell.  
Friday. The 32 teams will resume  Cincinnati, perhaps calling the  
business in compliance with U.S.  bluff of quarterback Carson  
District Judge Susan Richard  Palmer, who is demanding a  
Nelson’s order to lift the lockout.  trade, instead took the top receiv- 
But the lockout could be back in  er in this crop, A.J. Green of  AP  
place if the NFL wins an appeal. If  Georgia.  Cam Newton poses with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell after  
that happens, Newton, Miller and  Arizona, also in need of a quar­ being drafted by the Carolina Panthers with the No. 1 overall pick.  
all the players chosen Thursday  terback, selected the top corner- 
night would be thrown back into a  back available, Patrick Peterson of  in, Atlanta cut a massive deal with  The Browns received the  
labor limbo.  LSU.  Cleveland and moved up from No.  Falcons’ first-rounder, second- 
For now, they will be allowed to  The labor strife caused specula­ 27 to grab Alabama receiver Julio  and fourth-rounders, plus their  
report to their teams, meet coach­ tion not many trades would be  Jones — the fifth Southeastern  first pick and fourth-rounder in  
es and get playbooks. Contract  made Thursday. But just six picks  Conference player in the first six.  2012.  

NFL 

NFL players to return to work on Friday 
saying “I hear you.” day Friday, and the NFL’s reply to begin under rules of the collective start calling team executives about 
Associated Press 

The promise of football was a that is due on Monday morning. bargaining agreement that unsigned players as soon as Finally, the NFL is getting back welcome step forward on a day Michael Gans, the appeals court expired March 11. Team-super-Sunday night. to football. members of the Tennessee Titans clerk, said a three-judge panel for vised workouts will count toward Agent Drew Rosenhaus said 
Five days after a federal judge showed up to find two armed the appeal had not been set. bonuses in player contracts, and he’d like for signings and trades to declared the lockout was illegal security guards at their locked-up NFL Commissioner Roger players can also work out on their take place during the draft, which and nearly seven weeks after it facility, no sign of their new coach. Goodell said he feared the fight own at team facilities if they have runs through Saturday. began, the NFL said players can New players in particular will ben-could last for a while. health insurance in place. “I’ve been calling teams, and talk with coaches, work out at efit from the new guidelines. “I think the litigation, unfortu-The Detroit Lions already have I’ve been told they’ve been advised team headquarters and look at “These rookies, there’s a lot nately, could go on for some period scheduled organized team activi-by the NFL to hold off on signings their playbooks. going on for them,” New York of time,” he told the NFL Network. ties for Wednesday, and Cleveland or trades until further notice,” 
The NFL said all of that can Giants center Shaun O’Hara said. He said he was looking forward to Browns linebacker Scott Fujita Rosenhaus said. begin Friday, when it is also “So any info they can get, any the next round of court-ordered said his team is ready to get to Attorneys for the players said expected to release detailed guide-things they can study, is good. If talks on May 16. work. the decision to lift the lockout “is in lines for free agency, trades and the lockout happens again, they’ll “I think that it’s important to get “I consider us one of the organi-full, immediate force.” other roster moves in the absence have plenty to study from their back to that,” he said. “That’s the zations that will legitimately do the “It is our view that the NFL and of a collective bargaining agree-teams.” type of thing that should happen right thing with all this,” Fujita the clubs will be in contempt of ment. That’s certainly what the NFL — real bargaining across the said. “Guys who choose to report court if they do not comply with 
“That’s great news,” said line-wants. table.” right away just have to be flexible the order,” lawyers James Quinn backer Joe Mays, one of 10 The league has asked the 8th Goodell, who penned an opinion & realize that if a stay is granted and Jeffrey Kessler wrote in a Denver Broncos players who U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in St. piece in the Wall Street Journal from the appellate court, then memo to players. showed up at the team’s head-Louis to restore the lockout as this week suggesting Nelson’s rul-we’re locked out again.” Quinn, in a tersely worded letter quarters Thursday. “It’s something soon as possible. The court is con-ing could “endanger” the league if The league also will arrange for to NFL attorney Gregg Levy, said we’ve been trying to do, get back sidered a friendlier venue for busi-it is upheld on appeal, conceded substance abuse and steroid pro-the players were tired of waiting to work.” nesses than the federal courts in the legal fight was weighing on grams to resume, and players can and even accused the league of 
Fans, too, are desperate for a Minnesota. him. participate in team-sponsored “granting itself a temporary stay” football fix. The NFL wants an immediate “It’s frustrating,” he said. “We community and charity functions. of Nelson’s order when doors did-
On Thursday night, fans at the stay of U.S. District Judge Susan have so much potential. Our game Agent Angelo Wright said he has n’t open right away for football NFL Draft in New York roundly Richard Nelson’s decision on is in such a great place.” told players under contract not to activities. booed NFL commissioner Roger Monday to lift the 45-day lockout At least now, four days after worry about visiting headquarters “I guess if you’re a billionaire, Goodell when he first appeared on so it can argue that it should be Nelson lifted the lockout, there are this weekend out of fairness to the you can tell a judge no,” said the stage and repeatedly chanted: overturned altogether. The players guidelines to follow. teams so they can focus on the Green Bay Packers cornerback “We want football.” were told to respond to the Mandatory minicamps and vol-draft. He said they should plan to Charles Woodson, who was at a 
Goodell acknowledged the fans, league’s motion for a stay by mid-untary offseason practices can show up on Monday, and said he’d charity event in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
C ASSIFIEDS 
FOR SA E 
ITALIANATE-STYLE NINETEENTH CEN­TURY ARCHITECTURE. WIDE PROJECT­ING EAVES &amp; ORNATE BRACKET­ING. CONSTRUCTION NOT COMPLETE OFFERING NEW OWNER MANY CHOIC­ES. 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. DREAM KITCHEN, 10' CEILINGS, HARDWOOD FLOORS, 3 BEDROOMS, 2-1/2 BATHS. MASTER SUITE W/BALCONY. LOWER LEVEL FAMILY ROOM W/2 EGRESS WIN­DOWS, FULL BATH. OPEN HOUSE MAY 15TH Noon to 4:00 CALL Kim Kollar, Weichert, Realtors, 574-274-7440 ———————————————-———— 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
$200 CREDIT:  
FOR RENT  Future ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS, NOTICES PERSONA S  
TEACHERS, LAWYERS, BARDS, AMERI- 
House for rent. Faculty-grad students near  CAN IDOLS and other studious Bohemians, If you or someone you care about has been ZOOLANDER QUOTES:  
ND. 2BR 2.5BA, living room, dining room,  write your next soliloquy at one of our sexually assaulted, we can help. For more  
fam room, FL room. Security system. 2 car  homes. information, visit Notre Dames website: Derek Zoolander: What is this? A center for  
garage. Fenced yard. Colfax &amp;  http://csap.nd.edu ants? How can we be expected to teach  
Twyckenham. Call 262-332-0015  Check out: children to learn how to read... if they can’t  
———————————————-———— even fit inside the building?  
———————————————-————  www.IrishDwellings.com to find your home UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it  
for summer and/or fall semester 2011-2012 alone. Notre Dame has many resources in Mugatu: Derek, this is just a small...  
3 bedroom close to SMC/ND. Hardwood  and beyond. place to assist you. If you or someone you  
floors, laundry, bright and spacious. No  love needs confidential support or assis-Derek Zoolander: I don’t wanna hear your  
pets. Available mid June. 269-429-6346  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. excuses! The building has to be at least...  
For more information, visit ND's website at: three times bigger than this!  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  
———————————————-————  ———————————————-———— ———————————————-———— ———————————————-————  

Friday, April 29, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

Irish return to Big East championships, seek eighth title 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish head to the Big East championship this weekend, a tournament the squad has won the past seven consecutive years, in the hopes that history is on their side. 
Yet to Irish coach Martin Stone the past is anything but a guarantee of success. 
“It doesn’t really matter how many we’ve won [because] each year is different,” Stone said. “So you just try to win the one in that given year. I’m not a big believer that we defend any­thing that we’ve already won. We’re just trying to win this year — the 2011 Big East championship — and that’s pretty much all that matters right now.” 
Despite the reign of domi­nance, the Irish are not the favorite heading into this year’s championship, according to Stone. Though that distinction belongs to Louisville, the Irish coach says he will not change his expectations. 
“A successful weekend would be to win [the championship],” Stone said. “Whether it’s by one point or it’s by 15 points, to win, that would be successful in our eyes.” 
Stone acknowledges that the task will not be an easy one, with a number of fierce com­petitors in addition to the Cardinals. 
“I think Georgetown is pretty good — they’re covering every event,” he said. “I think Syracuse is showing some speed, Rutgers is doing well — I think everybody’s doing well. Everybody has a chance to go faster and do well.” 
Notre Dame enters the event coming off a strong perform­ance at the Lake Natoma Invitational in Sacramento, Calif. Apr. 16 and 17, at which the Irish placed second in Group B. The success at Lake Natoma catapulted Notre Dame into the CRCA/USRowing Coaches Poll for the first time all season, coming in at No. 20. In addition, the varsity four boat, consisting of freshmen Christina Dines, Courtney Gaberino, Teresa Rubinger and Kiersten DeHaven and junior Ching-Ting Hwang, earned Big East Crew of the Week honors. 
In the wake of a memorable week, the Irish are now focused solely on the upcoming Big East championship and winning another conference title at all costs. 
“We’re just going to try to score as many points as we can in each event and see how it plays out,” Stone said. “We want to win every event that we can, but [we’ll take] as many points as we can get in each event.” 
The Big East championship will take place Sunday in West Windsor, N.J. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.du 



Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Brett Gardner led off the Yankees’ six-run fifth inning with a homer for their first hit of the game, and Nick Swisher homered and had four RBIs in New York’s 12-3 rout of the Chicago White Sox on Thursday night. 
CC Sabathia pitched seven sharp innings to beat a familiar foe and help New York gain a split of the four-game series. Swisher hit his first homer in 76 at-bats this season and he, Nunez and Gardner scored three runs apiece. Every Yankees starter except Nunez had at least one RBI. 
Curtis Granderson tripled, Alex Rodriguez and Nunez each hit a double, and Swisher broke an 0­for-19 slump with a single in the fifth. New York sent nine batters to the plate before making an out in the inning. 
The White Sox never awoke from their hitting slumber in this series but won the first two games thanks to solid starting pitching. Chicago heads home after a 3-8 road trip in which it scored more than three runs in only one game. 
With Derek Jeter getting a planned day off and Mark Teixeira out with a sore shoulder, the Yankees struggled against Edwin Jackson (2-3) through the first four innings. But they did score twice in the third when Jackson walked four and threw a wild pitch as a light drizzle fell at Yankee Stadium. Robinson Cano, moved to third from fifth in the lineup, hit a sacrifice fly for a 2-0 lead. 
Sabathia (2-1) improved to 17-4 against the White Sox in 30 career starts, a team he faced often with Cleveand in the AL Central. He is just one of two pitchers in big league history that has at least 25 starts and four or fewer losses against Chicago, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 29, 2011 

Delivery 
continued from page 20 
4 seed Pizzeria Siegfried-The Delivery Boys used cohesive team play to grind out a 21-17 victory over No. 5 Texas Roadhouse. 
Pizzeria Siegfried started with the ball and immediately went to work on the Texas Roadhouse defense with an offense based on picks and con­stant movement. Behind that gameplan, they jumped out to an 11-9 lead at halftime. 
“We made the shots we had to make in the first half, and we just wanted to keep grind­ing it out all game,” Pizzeria Siegfried junior forward Andrew Nelligan said. 
In the second half the game stayed tight, with both teams trading baskets and fouls. Texas Roadhouse, a group of players from Holy Cross’ varsity basketball team, used the supe­rior size of 6’ 8” junior for­wards Taylor Williams and cap­tain Adam Onderdonk to pound the ball inside on offense and keep the opposition outside on defense. The tandem was able to control much of the action on the boards. 
Pizzeria Siegfried managed to maintain their lead though, largely due to the play of senior Kevin Kelly, who had a game-high eight points. Senior Dave Rudy was fouled on his way to the basket and went to the line with the score at 20-17 in favor of Pizzeria Siegfried. The foul shot was a little bit to the left, but the rain-soaked rim gave Pizzeria Siegfried a friendly bounce and the victory. 
“I just wanted to make it. I thought I missed it when it left my hand, but we got a lucky bounce,” Rudy said. “We’ve been playing together for a while now, and it’s an honor to be in the Final Four.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



Tribute 
continued from page 20 
program legend. 
“With regard to the tribute to Chuck Lennon, I think the honor is an absolute no-brain­er,” Aoki said. “The guy, to me, is Mr. Notre Dame. He has been loyal to this baseball pro­gram in every way, shape or form in terms of just giving everything of himself. He embodi es upcoming series against bub­ble teams Rutgers, Louisville and South Florida will be cru­cial for postseason seeding. 
“Clearly, our outcomes to this point in the season makes this a really important series,” he said. “This one, Rutgers, South Florida, Louisville, all big series for us. We still con­trol our own destiny, which is something we’ve talked about. When it gets down to it, if we have it in control, that’s the 
way that you 
want it.” 
Notre Dame’s 


everything struggling
“Clearly our outcomes
that Notre offense will have 
to this point in the
Dame aspires to rebound from to be. He season makes this a a poor series cares about against St. Johns, 
really important
other people, and it will have 
series.” 
and cares to do so against about educa-Seton Hall Friday tion. To honor Mik Aoki starter Joe a guy like DiRocco. The 
Irish coach 
that who’s given 50 years of serv­ice to this university is some­thing important for us today given that he was a baseball player.” 
On the field, Notre Dame (14-20-1, 5-9 Big East) will face a crucial test as it aims to make the field for the Big East tournament with a few wins over the Pirates (19-19, 6-9), who sit just above the Irish in the conference standings. Seton Hall is currently eighth and Notre Dame 10th in the 12-team league. Only the top eight teams at season’s end qualify for the conference tournament in Clearwater, Fla. Aoki said the series, as well as right-hander is 
5-0 with a 1.64 
ERA in 10 starts this season. Aoki said Seton Hall is constructed similarly to his squad, with strong pitch­ing. 
“It’s going to come down to a matter of who pitches a little better, who defends a little bet­ter, and who gets those timely hits a little bit better. Certainly with the way that DiRocco has pitched — and not only DiRocco, really their whole staff, they pitch really well.” 
The series will start Friday at 6:35 p.m. and conclude at 
11:05 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
NFL 
Colts claim Castonzo with 22nd overall pick 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Bill Polian knew Peyton Manning needed a bodyguard. 
Anthony Castonzo was will­ing to take the job. 
Now, the tandem could be working together for the rest of Manning’s NFL career. The Colts selected the 6-foot-7, 311-pound Boston College alum with the 22nd overall pick, making Castonzo the new heir apparent at left tack­le. 
“You’ve got to be excited about it,” Castonzo said, moments after he jumped in the air with his family in Illinois. “I get to play with one of the best quarterbacks in the league. You couldn’t ask for any more than that.” 
Actually, that’s only part of the job, rookie. 
Castonzo is expected to pro­tect the blind side for the league’s most durable quarter­back and a four-time MVP that the Colts cannot afford to lose to injury. Team officials believe Castonzo can solidify an offen­sive line that has spent most of the past two seasons playing musical chairs. 

Friday, April 29, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame to fight for tournament berth 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Despite the disappointments of the 2011 season, the Irish still find themselves poised to return to the Big East tourna­ment. With two regular season games remaining, Notre Dame (7-8, 4-2 Big East) hopes to string together multiple victo­ries for the first time this year. 
The Irish will face Louisville (10-6, 3-4) Friday and Cincinnati (2-13, 0-7) Sunday, and need to claim at least one victory in order to secure a spot in the tournament. Meanwhile the Cardinals will need a victory over the Irish in their final game of the season and a Notre Dame loss Sunday in order to earn a tournament bid. 
Irish senior midfielder and co-captain Jackie Doherty said she is deter­mined not to fin­“They are very athletic and they are one of the top scoring teams in the league. If we play like we can play and execute our game plan I expect a more significant win than last year.” 

Sunday’s matchup pits a Notre Dame program that is accustomed to winning against the Bearcats, who have strug­gled in Big East play. According to Doherty, the Irish want to enter the Big East Tournament on a roll, which will require focusing on underdog Cincinnati. 
“Obviously we want to respect every team, especially now knowing that we have to win at least one game this weekend to play in the tourna­ment,” Doherty said. “We also want to finish with a winning streak. We played [Cincinnati] in the fall and came away with a pretty significant win. It is tough to play a team that’s not the same caliber just 
ish her collegiate career this weekend. “I’m not ready  “I think this season has been disappointing with all the talent we  because of that fear of not taking them seri­ 
to play my last game at Cincinnati,” she said.  have — even more than last year — and having a losing season.”  ously.” T h o u g h the Irish have not  
Thanks to an  performed  
upset win over No. 16 Georgetown (8­ Jackie Doherty Irish senior  as expected this year, D o h e r t y  

6, 6-1) on senior day last week­end, Doherty said the Irish will enter Friday’s contest still rid­ing high. 
“We’re definitely still feeling good about it,” Doherty said of the win over the Hoyas. “It’s nice to know that we fought hard against a good team and came out on top. Being at home, we couldn’t have asked for a better scenario.” 
After topping Louisville in a close 11-9 contest last season, the Irish know to expect a tough game from the Cardinals. However, Doherty said Notre Dame can win by a larger margin if it executes. 
“They are definitely a good team,” she said of Louisville. 
said lower 

expecta ­tions from opponents might aid the team during the postsea­son. 
“I think this season has been disappointing with all the talent we have — even more than last year — and having a losing season,” she said. “It could also be a huge weapon, though, in the tournament. We’ll be play­ing teams we’ve already seen and they might think they can beat us easily. We’ll be ready if we didn’t get it the first time.” 
Notre Dame will face off at Louisville Friday at 5 p.m., and at Cincinnati Sunday at noon. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

Singles 
continued from page 20 
matches play out to determine the winner of the doubles point, and then six singles points are earned individually. 
If that is the case today the Irish will be forced to adapt, which could pose a challenge as doubles play has been a strong point for Notre Dame all season. It allows the Irish to get into a rhythm and to build a lead going into the more significant singles por­tion of the match. However, Mathews said that the team is prepared to generate momen­tum regardless of the struc­ture of the match. 
“We know they will be geared up to play us after their first round win,” Mathews said. “We want to come out with strong intensity from the beginning.” 
Georgetown finished the sea­son 7-2 in the Big East and 11­8 overall, earning the No. 8 seed in the tournament. They took down the Bearcats with four victories in singles play. 
Competition will get under­way tomorrow at 9 a.m. at the Eck Tennis Center. After the Irish square off against the Hoyas, Louisville will face Marquette, DePaul will take on Rutgers, and South Florida will face Syracuse, to deter­mine who will advance to the semifinals Saturday. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles prep for tournament 
be the most even-matched contest of the tournament and may once again come down to the last set. 
“I expect us to play Calvin tight again,” Campbell said. “There were lots of close matches last time, and I think it will come down to the last match again.” 
If Saint Mary’s beats the Knights, it could be headed for a matchup against MIAA Regular Season Champion No. 1 Albion. In their conference opener in March, the Belles lost 7-2 to the Britons (11-2, 8-0), winning only one singles and one doubles match. Albion ran the table in conference competition, estab­lishing itself as a national power with several non-conference vic­tories. 
While Saint Mary’s has strug­gled against top competition this year, finishing 0-3 against the top three MIAA teams, Campbell believes his squad has the ability to beat anyone. 
“I expect us to come out and play hard, and be very hungry against those top teams,” he said. “It will take a lot of believing in ourselves and just executing what we know we have to do.” 
As the last chance at a tourna­ment championship and an NCAA berth for Saint Mary’s core of five seniors, Campbell expects his players to approach their match­es with a sense of urgency and to leave everything on the court. 
“We’re really looking forward to the competition at this tourna­ment,” he said. “We have a great group of seniors that know what’s at stake. We had a much better regular season this year, and we feel confident heading into the tournament. We’re hoping to reach some new territory this time around.” 
The Belles’ tournament week­end will begin Friday in Kalamazoo, Mich., at 9 a.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
The cards are on the table for No. 4 Saint Mary’s after a suc­cessful regular season, its best since 2008. Now, the senior-laden squad will head to Kalamazoo, Mich., for the MIAA tournament in search of three more wins. 
First up for the Belles (12-7, 5-3 MIAA) will be No. 5 Calvin. In a hard-fought regular season show­down, Saint Mary’s beat the Knights (8-9, 5-3) 5-4. The Belles took an early lead in that match by winning two of three doubles matches, and a late 6-2, 7-5 victo­ry by senior Mary Therese Lee earned the decisive point for the team. 
In the upcoming first-round match of the tournament, Belles coach Dale Campbell believes early momentum in doubles play may again decide the victor. 
“Opening up strong in doubles play is very important for us,” Campbell said. “We lost two close doubles matches last week against [No. 3] Kalamazoo, and we feel like that set the tone for that loss.” 
In the end though, the Belles coach said this pairing will likely 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 29, 2011 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish host three games on senior weekend 

By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a pair of big victo­ries against South Florida Wednesday, highlighted by a no-hitter from freshman pitcher Laura Winters, the No. 22 Irish have no intention of slowing down. The team now returns to South Bend for senior weekend to play a three-game series against Big East opponent St. John’s. 
“We’ve been playing tremen­dously,” sophomore pitcher Brittany O’Donnell said. “I think the team is peaking at the right time of year.” 
Notre Dame’s two most recent Big East victories in Tampa put its Big East record at 11-1. With three more conference wins up for grabs, the team is focused and informed about what to expect from its upcoming oppo­nents. 
“After playing these teams year after year our coaches have compiled very detailed scouting reports,” freshman outfielder Lauren Stuhr said. “We know what to expect with each team we face. When we have had practice, we’ve been taking a lot of reps to make sure our fundamentals are perfect.” 
The Irish (35-8) have played some of their best softball of the season lately, with stellar pitch­ing complementing prolific hit­ting. Yet the team understands that while the Red Storm (19­
26) may not have the strongest record, they have six Big East wins and should not be under­estimated. 
“We know that St. John’s is a competitive team with a strong hitting line up,” O’Donnell said. “We are preparing by taking it upon ourselves to put in the extra practice time, which real­ly makes a difference.” 
With senior weekend cere­monies and the season drawing to a close, Stuhr says the team is happy to be returning to Melissa Cook Stadium. 
“I think there is a big advan­tage for us to be playing at home, especially this weekend,” Stuhr said. “It just feels com­fortable playing in our own sta­dium with our own fans.” 
As the season wraps up and the Big East tournament draws near, it is crucial that the team maintains its high standard of play in order to secure both national and conference rank­ings. 
“If we focus on our game and continue to do the things we have been doing we should come out with three wins this weekend,” Stuhr said. 
The Irish face St. John’s in a three-game series at home this weekend, with a doubleheader Saturday at noon and 2 p.m. and the final game Sunday at 11 a.m. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 
DeBot 
continued from page 20 
Dame defeated Mesa State, the No. 1 seed from the West region, 27-20. The Irish start­ed sluggishly, falling behind 20-7 at halftime, but rebound­ed to hold the Mavericks scoreless in the second half. 
Sophomore Ashley Okonta, senior Theresa Yerkes, senior Kayla Bishop, sophomore Megan Scheitlin and DeBot all scored for the Irish in the win. 
“We know we are capable of playing at a high level,” Bishop said. “All the practicing paid off and we played with a lot of heart.” 
Two days later, Notre Dame took down Shippensburg, the top seed from the Mid-Atlantic region, 23-15 to earn a berth in the Final Four. In the win over the Raiders, junior Christina Konkey scored twice while Okonta added a tally of her own. 
“We started down in both of those games, so we had to work a little bit harder to win,” sophomore Veronica Ryan said. 
Notre Dame’s next opponent, Stonehill, topped Winona State 35-7 before dispatching UNC-Charlotte 37-7 to reach the Final Four. 
“They’re a strong team and they play quickly,” DeBot said. “We need to be strong on defense and attack really hard.” 
What makes Notre Dame’s Final Four run all the more impressive is that it comes in the team’s first season in exis­tence, a season that began with a struggle to even have enough players. 
“I was worried we wouldn’t have enough people to field a team,” Bishop said. “Coach [Kate Daley] has done a great job. As the season went on, my expectations slowly rose.” 
Other members of the team echoed Bishop’s sentiment. 
“We have an amazing coach. We would not be anywhere without her,” Ryan said. “We have a great group of girls.” 
The Irish take on Stonehill Saturday in Pittsburgh at 
11:45 a.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Friday, April 29, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC GOLF 

Belles look to claim tournament lead 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
After beginning their title defense in the first round of the MIAA NCAA qualifier, the Belles look to rally from behind and finish strong in the final two rounds this weekend. 
Two weeks ago, the Belles took to the course at The Medalist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich., for the opening round of the qualifier. The team collec­tively finished in second place with a score of 333, which put them 12 shots behind the leader, No. 18 Olivet. The Comets took full advantage of playing on their home course, with all four of their scorers shooting under 
83. Now the Belles return to their home course, Blackthorn Golf Club, looking to regain con­trol of the tournament. 
“Playing at home is great,” Belles senior captain Mary Kate Boyce said. “Everything is famil­iar, so there are fewer adjust­ments that need to be made. Additionally, not having to stay in a hotel is nice because you get a better sleep and are more relaxed for the round. We really hope to use this to our advan­tage.” 
In addition to the many bene­fits of playing on a familiar course, Saint Mary’s also has the experience of playing from behind before. At last year’s qualifier the Belles shot the same opening round score of 333, which left them several strokes behind Olivet. Upon returning home for the final two rounds, the Belles rallied togeth­er and ended up winning the tournament by 12 strokes. 
Boyce believes last year’s come-from-behind victory taught the team an important lesson that should help them succeed now. 

“Everyone wants to go out there and win,” she said. “We want it very bad, but we’ve kept in mind that we need to enjoy our time on the course as well. That will ultimately help us win.” 
The Belles also have the bene­fit of an extra two weeks of preparation and practice. The squad has also been able to practice shots from the tee to the green, despite the bad weather. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton, who has also helped the team prepare mentally as well. 
“He has been working to help us sharpen our skills and keep us positive,” Boyce said. “It’s easy to get frustrated with the weather or poor performance, but he has kept us focused on improvement and enjoying our time.” 
The Belles look to rally behind their game-changers to eat into Olivet’s lead. Boyce looks to lead the charge, the reigning MIAA MVP. Other sparks for the team could come from junior Natalie Matuszak and senior captain Rosie O’Connor, Saint Mary’s lowest scorers in the first round. 
Boyce said in the end concen­tration and composure will be the difference between disap­pointment and a third-straight NCAA appearance. 
“A win will come to the team who can focus on each shot,” Boyce said. “While it’s difficult to do, we need to take it one shot at a time. If we do that, we’ve done our best and that’s all we can do. We don’t want to leave anything to chance.” 
The second round of the MIAA NCAA qualifier will begin Saturday, and the tournament will continue into the final round Sunday. The Belles tee-off at 1 p.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
NBA 
Hawks advance past Orlando 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Joe Johnson gave the Hawks a more expected offensive spark. His biggest play, though, was getting a hand on a missed shot. 
Johnson scored 23 points and came up with a huge offensive rebound, leading Atlanta to an 84-81 victory in Game 6 on Thursday night, knocking the Orlando Magic out of the play­offs. 
The Hawks, who won the series 4-2, advanced to the sec­ond round for the third straight year, this time against top-seed­ed Chicago. 
Orlando, which routed Atlanta a year ago in the most lopsided four-game sweep in NBA histo­ry, heads into an uncertain off­season after its earliest playoff ouster since 2007. 
With Atlanta clinging to a one-point lead and the clock running down, Marvin Williams missed a clinching 3-pointer. But Johnson swatted the rebound to Jamal Crawford, who was fouled and made both free throws with 8.2 seconds left. 
“I just wanted to make a play,” said Johnson, who bounced back from a dismal 5­point effort in Game 5. “The play was a pick-and-roll for Al (Horford) and Jamal, but we didn’t come up with what we wanted. I just crashed the glass and tried to somehow get a hand on it. I did.” 
The Magic had two chances to force overtime. J.J. Redick missed an open 3, then Jason Richardson had a desperation shot from the corner blocked by Josh Smith. 
Redick came off a screen for a clear view of the basket, a play that couldn’t have been drawn up any better. The shot rimmed out, though it went out of bounds off an Atlanta player to provide the Magic with one more shot. After his team called another timeout, Redick walked to the bench with his hands on his head. 
That would be their last chance to extend the series. Orlando inbounded from the baseline to Richardson, but he didn’t have much room to work in the corner. Smith extended a hand to finish off the Magic. 
Hedo Turkoglu kicked the ball off the scoreboard hanging above the court in frustration as streamers fell from the ceiling, the sellout crowd celebrating the series winner. 
The Magic was beaten off the glass 38-31, giving up 14 boards at the offensive end. 
“The biggest thing was the rebounding,” Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said. “It’s sort of fit­ting we couldn’t get a rebound on the last stop.” 
Next up for Atlanta: the Bulls. Game 1 is Monday night in Chicago. 
But the Hawks will take a little time to celebrate this win, which is especially sweet after the way they played in last year’s sec­ond-round blowout. 
“When you lose to a team by an average of 25 points a game, you’re looking for redemption,” Crawford said. “We were up to the challenge.” 
After not having much of an impact in Orlando’s 25-point win in Game 5, Dwight Howard led the Magic with 25 points and 15 rebounds. But, falling into a familiar pattern from the first four games, the big center didn’t get much help from his team­mates. 
Crawford scored 19 points, including consecutive 3s that gave Atlanta its biggest lead, 71-59, with just over 9 minutes left. The Magic fought back with an 8-0 spurt, and Ryan Anderson had a chance to give the Magic their first lead since the opening minutes with an open look from outside the stripe. 


SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles split doubleheader 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles took the first game of their Thursday doubleheader 5-4 in walk-off fashion before dropping the second game 6-0 to conference opponent Hope. 
Saint Mary’s (15-12, 4-6 MIAA) trailed Hope (23-12, 11­
3) for most of game one before making a comeback in the final two innings, capturing the deci­sion with a walk off RBI off the bat of freshman infielder Kelli Spurlock. The victory marked the fourth straight for the Belles in a streak dating back to April 
12. After having five of their last six doubleheaders post­poned during that stretch, the Belles made the most of their chance to return to action. 
“It was kind of a relief [play­ing]. It was awesome to get back out there even though it was kind of off and on raining a little bit,” Belles senior captain and outfielder Hayley Bojorquez said. “We were grateful to be on the field playing, and so I think that’s why we came out for the first game and just did not give up, because we were so excited to be there.” 
After their exciting win in the day’s first game, the Belles experienced a letdown in game two. Bojorquez said her team’s main problem in the second game was its inability to drive in runners. 
“[We struggled in] stringing hits together, which we still were able to do in the second game [a little bit],” she said. “However, we left eight runners on base in total. So we were hit­ting the ball, but we were leav­ing runners on base, and so clearly that is a problem.” 
Despite the disappointing loss in the second leg of the double­header, Saint Mary’s managed to keep its hopes of qualifying for the conference tournament alive. The Belles currently occu­py the sixth spot in MIAA rank­ings, with only the top four teams playing in the postsea­son. 
“Basically, our game plan right now is to just win the next six games that we have ahead of us,” Bojorquez said. “We want to go out with the same attitudes and mentality that we did the first game today and bring that into our next six games because we don’t want our season to end.” 
The Belles face another con­ference opponent this afternoon with Olivet (12-19, 2-10) slated to travel to Saint Mary’s. The games will be important for Saint Mary’s to record a pair conference wins against a team near the bottom of the confer­ence rankings. In order to take both games, the Belles will have to perform well behind the plate, especially with runners in scoring position, Bojorquez said. 
“We need to keep up our hit­ting because that is always going to be clutch for us,” she said. “Pitching is important but we know that we have a solid defense to back up our pitching if we need it. We need to keep up our offense not only to string along those hits but also to cap­italize on those situations that we didn’t necessarily [capitalize on] in the second game today … It’s going to be key for us to get those runners in, any way we need to.” 
The first pitch of the Belles’ penultimate home doublehead­er of the season will be thrown out today at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 29, 2011 
Kemp 
continued from page 20 
that they can feed it to anyone they want at any time. Communication is obviously key with that, knowing who’s able to go and who’s able to slide, espe­cially because they have so many talented guys. Defense is definite­ly the key to this game for us.” In order to prepare the Irish for Syracuse’s talented offense, Notre Dame’s second team has been scrimmaging against the Irish defense, mimicking Syracuse’s offensive style. 
“Our backups have tried to emulate what they’re going to do,” Kemp said. “They have set offenses but they kind of have a freelance offense. Their offensive guys kind of have a leeway with what they want to do.” 
On the offensive side of the ball, the Irish are looking to play aggressively and score early. Syracuse senior goalie John Galloway has been recognized as one of the top goalies in the country, and Kemp says that the Irish must take advantage of his tendency to move around the field. 
“He’s very active, willing to take chances, and he passes to outlet men. He’s willing to take chances to pick off passes and come out for ground balls. He’s not much of a sit-back and save-the-ball goalie. He likes to stay active and play a bigger role than a goalie normally tries to play,” Kemp said. “He’s a goalie that’s a lot different than your prototypi­cal goalie. He’s obviously had success this year, and I look for­ward to playing against him.” 
Despite such widespread talent on both teams’ rosters, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said he thinks the outcome of the game will depend on team play. 
“There are going to be a lot of great individual players in the game, but I think it will come down to which team plays bet­ter,” he said. “There will be good matchups all over the field, but it will come down to which team plays together.” 
Corrigan said for the Irish this will ultimately come down to playing smart. 
“The thing we have to do is keep them out of their transition­al game. They’re very, very dan­gerous when things are not set up,” Corrigan said. “We have to be smart offensively, take good shots, not have bad turnovers, clear the ball well and not get in foul trouble.” 
Earlier in the season, Syracuse was ranked ahead of Notre Dame, and the Irish were antici­pating a road game against the top team in the country. Corrigan said the team has gotten itself in a great position a few weeks before postseason play begins. 
“We’re playing not only two of the best teams in the country but two of the more renown pro­grams in the country,” the Irish coach said. “I don’t think I’m going to have to keep the guys motivated. They’ve been doing great, working hard every day. We’re in a great spot and it’s because of how hard they’ve worked.” 
Kemp said there is a high ener­gy level in the locker room head­ing into the matchup at Syracuse. 
“There’s a lot of excitement. Going over to the Dome is going to be really exciting, and the atmosphere will be awesome. They are expecting about 15,000 people,” he said. “I am happy and excited for the opportunity to play them.” 
The Irish will take on the Orangemen Saturday in Syracuse, New York, at 7 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 

Texans pick up Watt with 11th pick 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON — Houston defen­sive coordinator Wade Phillips says his renovation of the Texans’ defense begins with the draft. 
The Texans took Wisconsin defensive end J.J. Watt with the 11th overall pick Thursday night, and Phillips said the team won’t stop there as they try to bolster a unit that ranked 30th in yards allowed last season. 
“We still need some more defensive players,” Phillips said. “What’s best for the team is what’s best for me, I don’t mean that. I think it’s clear that we need a lot of defense in this draft.” 
Phillips is hoping that the 6­foot-5, 290-pound Watt develops into a solid complement for Mario Williams, the No. 1 overall pick in 2006 and Houston’s all-time sacks leader. 
Watt made 43 tackles behind the line of scrimmage, including 11 ½ sacks, in 26 games at Wisconsin. A former tight end, Watt transferred there after playing one season at Central Michigan. He entered the draft after two seasons with the Badgers. 
Watt knows, as a first-round pick, that he’ll be expected to contribute immediately. 
“No one has higher expecta­tions for me than I do,” Watt said in a conference call on Thursday night. “I am going to come in and give it everything I have, and at the end of the day, I hope it helps the team win football games because, that is what it’s all about.” 
Houston ranked last in pass defense last season, allowing 
267.5 passing yards per game. The Texans ranked 23rd in both interceptions (13) and sacks (30) in 2010, and Phillips replaced Frank Bush as defensive coordi­nator. 
The Texans have taken a defensive player with their first overall pick in seven of the past eight drafts. 



Houston passed up the chance Texans were also eyeing to take Nebraska cornerback Missouri defensive end Aldon Prince Amukamara to shore up Smith, who was taken by San the secondary. Phillips said the Francisco at No. 7. 

Friday, April 29, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY HENRI ARNOLD
PLEASANDVILLE JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, April 29, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Dome to Dome 
Matchup to feature Big East ’s best 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Nine Tewaaraton Trophy nomi­nees will take the field Saturday for the matchup the top-ranked Irish have been awaiting all sea­son, as they travel to the Carrier Dome to take on No. 4 Syracuse. 
Six of those Tewaaraton Trophy nominees, fighting for player of the year honors, belong to Syracuse (12-1, 4-0 Big East), which features a high-energy offense that averages upwards of 10 goals per game. Irish sopho­more goalie John Kemp said he believes containing the Orangemen’s midfielders and limiting their transition game will be critical for the Irish (10-0, 5-0) in the game. 
“They pretty much have six guys that can go to the goal whenever they want — they’re confident,” Kemp said. “We need to have good ball pressure at all 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer
times, and we need to be aware 

Junior midfelder Max Pfeifer advances the ball during Notre Dame’s 7-6 win over Georgetown April see KEMP/page 18 10. The squad travels to Syracuse in a matchup of the conference’s top two teams. 

WOMEN’S RUGBY 
ND earns semifinals berth 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Entering its debut year as a club sport at Notre Dame, the women’s rugby team was searching for an identity. One viewing of “Remember the Titans” later, the squad found it. 
Prior to each game, the play­ers relive a scene from the movie, referring to themselves as “mobile, agile, hostile” and to pain as “french bread.” This unification of sorts has helped guide the Irish all the way to the Final Four this weekend in Pittsburgh, 
“We’re really excited, this is an amazing opportunity,” jun­ior Margot DeBot said. “We feel very prepared and we are just grateful to play this week­end.” 
In the round of 16, Notre 
see DeBOT/page 16 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Saturdays inAmerica battle elements en route to victory 
By JACK HEFFERON Sports Writer  from the level of play though, as both teams put on a show with two unique offensive  “We thought we were going to be able to use our speed to our advantage,” Firm sophomore  Saturdays in America contin­ued to pull away behind the offensive leadership of gradu­ the final point on a perfectly executed alley-oop to claim the victory and advance.  
styles.  captain Steve Conway said.  ate student Alex Klupchak and  “It  was  tough playing out  
Much  like  the  rain  that  The  older  Saturdays  in  “But with the rain, we weren’t  law student Brendan Bush, who  here, but we kept fighting until  
poured down throughout the  America played with poise and  able to do that, and we decided  finished with eight and six  the end,” Saturdays in America  
game,  the offense of No. 1  scored by hitting mid-range  to lean on the outside shot.”  points, respectively. However,  senior  Aaron  Nichols  said.  
Saturdays in America was driv­ jumpers and finding open cut- In the second half the rain fell  the  Firm  remained  in  con-“We’re looking forward to the  
ing and relentless in its 21-13  ters for easy layups. The Firm,  even harder, forming puddles  tention thanks to the unbeliev- Final Four.”  
win over No. 8 The Firm.  on the other hand, preferred to  on the court and soaking the  able shooting of Conway, who  
The game was competitive from the opening whistle, as it  attack from long range, shoot­ing from well beyond the arc.  ball. The game got a little rough after the break, and hard  in one memorable sequence made two wild fade-aways from  Pizzeria Siegfried-The Delivery Boys 21, Texas Roadhouse 17  
did not take long for the two  Their shots were off in the first  fouls, rain-soaked collisions  five feet behind the three-point  In a rainy matchup between  
teams to begin trash talking  half though, and they found  and a dislocated shoulder were  line.  two evenly matched teams, No.  
and arguing throughout the  themselves trailing 11-6 at  all evidence of the high stakes  In  symbolic  fashion,  
game. That did not take away  halftime.  of the quarterfinals.  Saturdays in America scored  see DELIVERY/page 14  

BASEBALL 

Programlegendtobehonored 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will honor a Notre Dame baseball legend while trying to keep pace in the Big East standings as they host Seton Hall for a three-game weekend series at Frank Eck Stadium. 
During Friday night’s open­er, Notre Dame will honor the career of Alumni Association executive director Chuck Lennon, a former monogram winner in baseball. Lennon will retire in June from his post in the Alumni Association after 30 years. Irish coach Mik Aoki said the event, which will include post-game fireworks, represents a special opportu­nity for his team to honor a 
see TRIBUTE/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Top-seeded Irish to take on Hoyas 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After Georgetown took down Cincinnati 4-1 in the first round of the Big East Tournament, No. 24 Notre Dame, the tournament’s top seed, will face the Hoyas in the quarterfinals in pursuit of its fourth straight confer­ence title. 
The Irish enter this year’s tournament as the top seed for the 15th time in the past 16 seasons, but this year they also have the good for­tune of home-court advan­tage. The 2011 Big East championships are taking place at Notre Dame’s own Courtney Tennis Center, and Irish junior Shannon Mathews said that the team cherishes the opportunity to capture its 11th overall con­ference title on its home courts. 
“We are all really excited to be hosting the Big East tournament and to have the opportunity to play on our courts in front of our families and friends,” Mathews said.” 
In Thursday’s first round matchup between the Hoyas and the Bearcats, the singles portion was played first, a different situation than regu­lar season matches. Traditionally, the doubles 
see SINGLES/page 15 







