
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Leader fights for citizens’ freedoms 
Sierra Leone’s President Koroma discusses efforts to improve life in his homeland 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
While delivering his lecture before a packed auditorium, President Ernest Bai Koroma of the Republic of Sierra Leone stated that his efforts to im­prove the average standard of living in his country will also serve to eliminate the most substantial threat to the free­dom of its citizens. 
Elected in 2007 on a platform promising drastic change, Ko­roma has undertaken numer­ous projects during his term to improve the nation’s food security, energy, healthcare, infrastructure and education. 

“It has always been my be­lief that the greatest threat to freedom is the absence of props to support it,” Koroma said at his lecture “Faith, Tol­erance and Progress” on Tues­day. “We will face challenges in our agenda for change, but we are determined to sustain our freedom with strong mate-MIKE FERNANDES/The Observer 
President Ernest Bai Koroma of the Republic of Sierra Leone spoke about his goals on improving see SIERRA/page 6 his country’s standard of living in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Tuesday. 




St. Liam’s gives out flu shots 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Receiving a flu shot can re­duce the number of student trips to St. Liam’s this flu season, said Ruthann Heberle, assistant di­rector of Medical Outreach Ser­vices. 
“The flu, even for healthy peo­ple, can be a really serious ill­ness,” Heberle said. 
For this reason, the University gave out free flu shots to stu­dents, faculty and staff yester­day and will continue to do so today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Thursday from 1 p.m. to 9 pm. in Stepan Center, Heberle said. Individuals must bring a Notre Dame ID and be wearing short sleeves to receive the shot, she said. 
Heberle said the University has 6,600 flu shots ready for students, faculty and staff, after 


see FLU/page 4 

Professor lectures on Carter’s 1977 address 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
When University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hes-burgh invited former President Jimmy Carter to give the 1977 Commencement Address, few were expecting a pivotal mo­ment in human rights history to take place in its stead. 
Columbia University Pro­fessor Samuel Moyn placed the address in context to the broader history of the human rights movement in a lecture at Geddes Hall Tuesday. 
Moyn first traced the devel­opment of the primary idea be­hind the speech — the concept of human rights. 
“The basic values in human rights seem old, if not eternal,” Moyn said, tracing the value placed on dignity back to the Bible and others back to simi­larly influential sources. 
Though the values have been around for a while, he said that the increasingly popular con­cept of international human rights can be traced back to very recent years. Other “uni­versalisms,” or doctrines with broad applicability beyond their original context, also served as precedents to the hu­man rights concept. The most important were the concepts of natural law and of the rights of man.  
“The [thoughts of the Catho­lic Church] in this era rejected the human rights movement as solipsistic … and looked wari­ly on the exclusivist secular state,” Moyn said. 
This was due, at least in part, to the origin of the natu­ral rights concept and the sub­sequent nationalist movement. 
With the human rights con­cept following from the natu­ral rights concept, reception was initially frosty, he said. But as the Church began to see the secular state becoming all-powerful in its control of the person, it began to desig­nate areas that the state can­not infringe upon — including the rights owed to that person because of the shared status of basic humanity. 
“In the late 1930s the Church began to change its thought and to embrace individual over state rights,” he said. 


see CARTER/page 3 


Students read banned books 

By AMANDA GRAY and TABITHA RICKETTS 
News Writers 
Students gathered across Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campuses to protest censor­ship and read aloud from Banned Books during national Banned Books Week. 
The Week, which runs from Sept. 24 to Oct. 1, is necessary to spark conversations about censorship and free speech, Notre Dame Librarian-In-Res­idence Naomi Bishop said. 
“Banned Books Week is a big deal, and it needs to be celebrated,” she said at the Banned Books Read-Out in the Hesburgh Library Concourse on Monday. 
Surrounded by student-designed posters, nine read­ers read from the 10 most-challenged books of 2010. The readers were library staff members and members of the Literacy Awareness Club of Notre Dame (LAND). 
Saint Mary’s College has been celebrating Banned Books Week by hosting a series of daily excerpt readings in the Cushwa-Leighton Library. The readings take place from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. everyday 


see BOOKS/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council discusses school spirit page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Netflix ‘Dear John’ letter page 10 u Kelly’s Tuesday press conference page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, September 28, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH COUNTRIES BORDER SIERRA LEONE? ANSWER: LIBERIA AND GUINEA. 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Molly Sammon Mel Flanagan Cory Bernard Jillian Barwick Vicky Jacobsen Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 61 LOW 52 




Angel Zambrano  Joe Carsaro  Joey Leonard  John Hrabrick  Nicole Marsiello  Veronica Guerrero  
freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Knott  Zahm  Zahm  O’Neill  Ryan  Walsh  
“Liberia and  “Ivory Coast and  “Ivory Coast.”  “Togo.”  “Liberia.”  “Ivory Coast.”  
Guinea.”  Ghana.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Governor vetoes tax break for “ Jersey Shore” 
NEW YORK — Gover­nor Chris Christie of New Jersey vetoed on Monday a $420,000 film tax credit dubbed the “Snooki Subsi­dy” for the reality show “The Jersey Shore,” citing the state’s budget crunch. 
Christie, a longtime critic of the raucous MTV show that offers a less than flat­tering portrayal of life in the Garden State, said in a statement the money would be better spent on “projects that actually benefit the state.” 
“As chief executive, I am duty-bound to ensure that taxpayers are not footing a $420,000 bill for a project which does nothing more than perpetuate misconcep­tions about the state and its citizens,” Christie said in the letter. 
“The governor’s decision will not impact the show,” MTV spokesman Nathaniel Brown said. 
Tenn. woman seeks help on Facebook for stolen phone 
NASHVILLE, Tenn — Some people have complained about changes in Facebook, but not Rolanda Hill, who used the social media site to seek help after an armed robber broke into her home and stole her cell phone. 
Hill, 20, was alone in her Chattanooga, Tennessee, apartment Sunday night when she heard a knock at her door and did not see anyone through the peep­hole, police said. 
“When she went to open the door, a gunman stuck a gun through the door and forced his way in,” police spokeswoman Sergeant Jer­ri Weary said in a statement. 
After the robber left, Hill reported the crime to her Facebook friends and asked them to call police. Police responded and on Monday were looking for the robber. 
Attempts to reach Hill on Monday for a Facebook sta­tus update were unsuccess­ful. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Snite Museum of Art is hosting an exhibition ded­icated to the work of Andy Warhol. This exhibit cel­ebrates the spirit of innova­tion that marks the work of Warhol and offers a welcome opportunity to debut high­lights of the Warhol Founda­tion’s 2008 gift to the Snite Museum of 106 Polaroid and 49 gelatin silver print pho­tographs. The museum is open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Wednes­days, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday through Saturday, and 1 to 5 p.m. Sundays. Ad­mission is free. 
Today from 12 to 1:30 
p.m. Dr. Michael Hansen will present a lecture en­titled, “Evaluating Teacher Perfomance: What We Do and Don’t Know,” about his research on reforming K-12 teacher evaluation. It will be held in Geddes Hall Cof­fee Lounge. Lunch will be served. 
Celia Deane-Drummond, professor of Theology, will be holding a Moral Theology Colloquium entitled “The Ethics of Assisted Dying: A case for the Recovery of Prudence among the Vir­tues.” The event will be held in Room 114 O’Shaughnessy Hall from 4:30 to 7 p.m. 
Tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. Dr. Horst Koehler, the for­mer President of the Federal Republic of Germany, will be holding a lecture entitled, “The Whole is at Stake.” The lecture will take place in Carey Auditorium in Hes-burgh Library. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 







HIGH 71 LOW 52 
HIGH 54 LOW 44 
HIGH 54 LOW 37 
HIGH 62 LOW 47 

Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Carter 
continued from page 1 
Hesburgh’s invitation to former President Carter marked a continuation of the Church’s change of opinion, to staunch support of human rights throughout the world. 
“Fr. Hes-burgh was thinking about hu­man rights in a way that was going to make them equally im­portant to civil rights,” Moyn said. 
Carter ’s speech gave Americans ual guilt about Vietnam, and to provide a moral baseline for American action abroad. 

Moyn ended on a pensive note, addressing the continu­ally developing nature of in­tellectual discourse in this global society allowing such a greater degree of idea ex­change. 
“But of course, history is never over,” he said. “Human 
“Fr. Hesburgh was thinking about human rights in a way that was going to make them equally important to civil rights.” 
Samuel Moyn professor Columbia University 
a new language of legiti­macy with which they could address the pressing issues of the time, he said. At the time of this speech, the newly recognized frame of analysis with human rights at the cen­ter was used to assuage resid­rights is not written in the genetic code, but is a recent de­velopment which will have a con­tinually re­defined role in a future that is inde­terminate.” 
A recep­tion was 

held after the lecture, and Moyn will speak again in Pro­fessor Luc Reydamn’s “Inter­national Human Rights Move­ment” course today. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 




Council discusses school spirit 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Coming off the second Irish win of the football season, stu­dent body president Pat Mc­Cormick invited Notre Dame Leprechaun Mike George to Tuesday’s Council of Repre­sentatives meeting to discuss how student leaders can help raise school spirit on campus. 
“Mike’s been committed this year to try and reform not only pep rallies but also the whole school spirit portfo­lio in a way that should be re­ally exciting and could engage students in new and powerful ways,” McCormick said. 
Student government has fo­cused on reforming campus pep rallies lately, but George highlighted the need to maxi­mize fan excitement sur­rounding away games as well. 
He said the departure of the football team on Thursdays could be an opportunity for a new student tradition. 
“The team leaves Thurs­day, and we actually have a small group from the band that plays them off onto the bus,” George said. “I think we could reach out to a new quad each away game [to join in the sendoff] ... It’s easy, it’s quick, it shows a bit of support.” 
Undergraduate Experience in Leadership program chair Ricky Bevington said atten­dance would also raise mo­rale for the band, citing his time spent as a member par­ticipating in the send-off. 
“It’s kind of awkward be­cause the football players walk one-by-one to the bus ... it takes about 20 minutes,” Bevington said. “If people went, they’d make band mem­bers very happy.” 
Junior Class Council presi­dent Kevin Doherty said stu­dents might need incentives to go to the sendoff. 
“I think a school with a foot­ball tradition like ours would really benefit from this,” he said. “But in terms of students I don’t know what’s going to get them there.” 
George said he thinks the love of Notre Dame football should be enough to draw at 
least a por­tion of the selected quad. 
“If we ask a quad [to attend], we’re talk­ing 800 people,” he said. “Can we get 20 of 800 people to show up just because they love football?” 
George said the school spirit 
“As of now, there’s been 
vice president 
no decision for USC as to 
Brett Roche-whether or not we’ll do a leau asked ‘color-out.’ The problem whether ru­with that is people bought mors of a The Shirt. That’s sort “green out” for the game were 
of the team color.” 
true. “As of now, 
Mike George 
there’s been 
Notre Dame Leprechaun 
no decision 
shouldn’t just be there to send the team off — it should be at the away stadium. He asked the council for suggestions on drawing more students to away game rallies and tail­gates. 
“When we go to these away games, we do have rallies,” he said. “They’re smaller ral­lies but there’s always an ND tailgate ... I’m not so sure stu­dents know when and where they’re having the rallies.” 
Hall Presidents Council co-chair Billy Wardlaw said en­suring low prices for students at alumni club-sponsored away game tailgates would draw more students. 
“One thing we can work on too is that I know Notre Dame tailgates are pricey and that’s what deters a lot of my friends from going,” he said. “If we could get more of a student discount I think more stu­dents would go.” 
Returning the focus to home game weekends, George 
opened up the 
conversation 
about the USC 
night game. 
Student body 


for USC as to 
whether we’ll 
do a ‘color­
out,’” George said. “The problem with that is people bought The Shirt. That’s sort of the team color.” 
Whether or not a green-out will be planned for the game, George urged students to at­tend the pep rally prior to it. 
“The USC pep rally is go­ing to be really awesome,” he said. “You’re not going to want to miss it.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, September 28, 2011 

Flu 
continued from page 1 
administering 6,500 last year. 
Those who received flu shots last year are still at risk of con­tracting influenza and should re­turn for a new vaccine, Heberle said. 
“There are different flu virus­es that they give the vaccine for each year,” she said. “The one that you got last year may not be effective for the virus that they tested and feel is the most pre­dominant this year.” 
Experts expect fewer cases of influenza this year, Heberle said, but students must not rely on that prediction when choosing whether or not to get a flu shot. 
“This year, they’re anticipat­ing that it will be a milder flu year,” she said. “However, people still need to be conscientious about getting the flu vaccine if they’re able.” 
Heberle said the peak of flu season is between December and April, but she recommends that students receive flu shots before fall break. 
“It takes about two weeks for your immunities to build up from the vaccine,” she said. “That’s why we like to give it early.” 
But Heberle also said students should be mindful of the flu year round — it can occur at any time of the year. 
The flu shot is an important preventative measure for most students, but Heberle said it is not for everyone. 
Heberle said those who are immunosuppressed, allergic to eggs, pregnant or have a fever greater than 101 degrees should not receive a flu shot. 
Flu shots can also come with minimal side effects, she said. 
“Usually it’s just soreness in your arm, if that,” Heberle said. “Maybe some mild, mild symp­toms like a little bit of a sore throat or a headache, but usual­ly those subside in a day or two.” 
Receiving a flu shot cannot be students’ only method of pre­venting the flu, she said. Stu­dents should wash their hands often, cough in their elbows and stay away from others if sick. 
“Be considerate of those that you’re around,” Heberle said. “Just common courtesy kinds of things.” 
Sophomore Elizabeth Owers said she chose to receive a flu shot in addition to other pre­ventative measures because the vaccine protected her last year. 
“I got one last year, and my roommate got the flu, and I didn’t,” Owers said. “I just don’t have the time to be sick for a week.” 
Owers also said that by ad­ministering free flu shots, the University is doing its part to re­duce cases of influenza on cam­pus. 
“If they didn’t offer free flu shots, I feel like a majority of the student body, including myself, wouldn’t go get them,” she said. 
If students recognize flu symp­toms such as sore throat, cough and fever, Heberle said they should be proactive in their re­covery. 
“Drink plenty of fluids and get plenty of rest,” she said. “Just do all the things your mother told you to do.” 


Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


Group discusses new budget 

By JILL BARWICK 
News Writer 
Members passed the new budget for the 2011-2012 aca­demic year during the weekly Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) meet­ing. 
Student body president Nicole Gans opened the floor for the new budget by presenting the newest components. 
“We have had an overall budget decrease from last year of 30 percent and therefore adjustments have been made throughout the budget to ac­commodate these changes,” she said. 
Gans began the meeting by emphasizing its main goal was to pass the budget. 
“We really did not have as much rollover this year because of the decrease,” she said. “We did not have control over this. This cut just had to happen.” 
Since the College has had a decrease in enrollment the past two years, the budget had to be minimized, she said. The money for the budget comes di­rectly from the money grossed by students, which is why the decrease was inevitable. 
Technology commissioner Maureen Parsons explained how each section of SGA would 
receive their own portions of the new budget. 
“We took the rollover from last year and took in the pur­pose of each board as well as events be­ing planned fore the end of the night when more than one question rose from the governing body. 
“The longer we go without passing the budget, the more time goes by before we can give everyone her own budget for the year,” Busam said. 
After putting forth the mo­tion to pass the new budget, 13 
“The longer we go without passing the budget, the more time goes by before we can give everyone her own budget for the year.” 
Liz Busam executive treasurer 
members of SGA agreed to pass it out of the 19 members who voted, reaching the required two-thirds major­ity. 
In addition to the budget, SGA also ap­
for this year to determine what each group receives for the budget,” Parsons said. 
Executive treasurer Liz Busam stressed the importance of passing the new budget be-proved the bylaws and amend­ments of the governing docu­ments. 

Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 



page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, September 28, 2011 



Psychology professor explores memory 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
Professor James Brockmole can summarize his research in two questions: 
“When you open your eyes, how do you understand what is in front of you?” he said. “When you close your eyes, how do you remember what you saw?” 
Brockmole, along with post­doctoral fellow Christopher Davoli, recently completed a cognitive study that explores how people use their atten­tion and memory to recognize visual objects. Their research shows that people’s means of interactions with the outside environment can alter the way they recognize those objects. 
The hypothesis of the experi­ment tested the idea of the evo­lution of the memory system based on necessity, Brockmole said. Undergraduate students were tested on how good they were at recognizing patterns they had and hadn’t seen be­fore. 
The experiment, conducted through showing students im­ages on a screen while allow­ing or not allowing them to hold the screen. Brockmole said the students did not notice specific details as much when they were not allowed to touch the screen. 
“When things are far away we don’t need to be detail-ori-


Sierra 
continued from page 1 
rial foundations.” 
Koroma began the lecture on a lighter note by congratulat­ing the Notre Dame football team on its victory over Pitts­burgh, but quickly moved into a discussion of the current state of religious tolerance in Sierra Leone. 
“Religious tolerance in Sier­ra Leone is an article of faith,” Koroma said. “People here of different faiths, whether Mus­lim, Catholic or Protestant, have striven over time to em­phasize their commonalities and now have equal opportu­nities to succeed in life.” 
As important in Koroma’s mind as religious tolerance is the existence of true freedom, which he recognized has not always been a reality in Sierra Leone. He ar­gued that, al­ented because we have more time to react,” Brockmole said. “You wouldn’t care if a poison­ous snake was on the other side of the building. But if the snake was in front of you, you need to know if you will be able to handle the situation.” 
The memory system is influ­enced by the way someone con­trols his or her body, he said. When someone is experiencing something hands-on, he or she notices more details and differ­ences between two objects. 
Davoli said these findings may be extended for use in ed­ucation. 
“We don’t have enough data to say how exactly we can treat these results in an education system but there is enough in­formation to say that it is im­portant,” Davoli said. “Besides, learning is situational; it de­pends on what you are trying to learn.” 
One possibility may include the visual effects of learning, he said. So many interactions, whether they be with text­books, televisions, projection screens or iPads, influence learning, but they don’t have the same impact. The results of this experiment could be used to analyze the influence of the effectiveness of different tech­nological mediums. 

Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
freedom. 
“The absence of tolerance in any individual makes that individual very frightening to freedom,” Koroma said. “Be­cause Sierra Leone is one of the most religiously diverse nations in the world, we sim­ply cannot afford to be intoler­ant.” 
Praising Notre Dame for its persistent encouragement of knowledge, tolerance and enterprise, Koroma also ex­pressed his hope for creating a constructive and lasting bond between Sierra Leone and the University. 
“We are here to strengthen links and build a bridge for the exchange of knowledge and faith between Notre Dame and the universities of Sierra Leone,” he said. 
To conclude his lecture, Ko­roma encouraged the audience to act as ambassadors to help spread the word in America that Sierra Leone is now 


though unity “We are here to a free and and security strengthen links and democratic are crucial to build a bridge for the nation on the 
the wellbeing exchange of knowledge rise. of a nation, “Help us 
and faith between Notre 
they should tell the world 
Dame and the universities 
not be used that the civil 
of Sierra Leone.” 
as excuses to war in Sierra suppress in-Leone ended dividual free-Ernest Bai Koroma 13 years ago, doms. president that we are “Unity and Sierra Leone a democra­
security are not exclusive to freedom,” Koroma said. “Freedom is an inalienable right of humans beings that must remain a centerpiece of Sierra Leone, and thus secu­rity should be pursued only without negating the advance of freedom.” 
Touching once again on the importance of religious toler­ance, Koroma emphasized that it is crucial for maintaining 
cy that saw 
a peaceful transition of power to the op­position party, that documen­taries like ‘Blood Diamond’ are not accurate portraits of what is happening in our land, that we have a history of free­dom and tolerance and, most importantly, that we have a bright future,” he said. 


Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 


Books 
continued from page 1 
through Friday. 
Robert Hohl, a librarian at Saint Mary’s Cushwa-Leighton Library, was in charge of or­ganizing the occasion for the College. Hohl said this week is about confirming the commu­nity’s right to free speech. 
“What so often seems to hap­pen is that people focus on [the issues] and don’t look at the larger picture,” he said. “This week gives us the chance to talk about that, and really un­derstand the values of freedom of expression.” 
Among those readers at Notre Dame’s Read Out was David Archer, a reference and Peace Studies librarian at Hes-burgh Library. Archer said he has battled censorship for nearly 30 years. 
“I hope [Banned Books Week] means we help raise awareness of the value of the freedom to read,” he said. 
Archer read from the chil­dren’s book “And Tango Makes Three,” a story about two ho­mosexual penguins that raise an egg together. Challenged on the grounds of being “age inappropriate,” the book has been among the top challenged books for four out of the last five years. 
While this is the first Banned Books Read-Out sponsored by the Library and the second on campus, Archer said the week began in 1982. 
Saint Mary’s first year Me­gan Steron was one of the many students who signed up to par­ticipate in the readings at the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
“I think it’s a wonderful way of bringing attention to the censorship that is imposed on [literature],” she said. “I am completely opposed to it.” 
Steron, who read from John the more emotional a connec­Steinbeck’s controversial book, tion to a project, the better the “Of Mice and Men,” said she work.” wishes banned books were cel-The son of a library director ebrated more than just a week and a college English profes­out of the year. sor, Sedlack said he grew up in 
“I think, especially in an environment that encour­schools, it’s important to get aged reading. people interested in reading “There’s a lot of overlap be-and [show them] why they tween great books and chal­need to read these challenged lenged books,” Sedlack said. 
books  and  “Who  gets  
not let them  to  decide  
fade  into  what’s  right  
oblivion,” she said. H o h l said he has worked since the summer to coordinate the events for Banned Book  “I think, especially in schools, it’s important to get people interested in reading and [show them] why they need to read these challenged books and not let them fade into oblivion.”  or wrong for me to read?” S a i n t Mary’s also had a display of student-d e s ig ne d posters from Se d la c k ’ s  
Week.  class for the  
“ W e ’ v e never done this before,”  Megan Steron first year, reader Banned Books Readout  week. Hohl said that by rais- 

Hohl said. “We have put posters up and had displays of banned books in the past, but never a weeklong event.” 
Banned Books Week is sig­nificant to the literary world, Hohl said. 
“Challenges [against books] should be taken seriously by school boards, libraries … [but the books themselves] also need to be addressed, and re­ally seen,” he said. “[To censor] is really to undermine the free exchange of information with­in a community.” 
Notre Dame Professor Rob­ert Sedlack, whose senior-level graphic design course designed the posters, said the project served as a good in­troduction to the semester, as well as a spark for in-class dia­logue. 
“I want a project where not everyone will be on the same page, if you pardon the pun,” he said. “We might have some controversy, and I’ve seen that ing aware­
ness within 
the Saint Mary’s community, the partici­pants support banned books around the world. 
“That’s what good literature is for,” he said. “It is to help us understand human conditions, and deal with them.” 
Notre Dame senior and LAND Service Chair Caitlin Wilson said the club volun­teered to read from the books after being contacted by Wil­son. 
“We like anything that means more people are reading,” she said. “Everyone should be able to read the books that got me excited. I love ‘Brave New World’ and ‘The Hunger Games’ (both in the most chal­lenged books of 2010 list). Ev­eryone should have a chance to read.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at  agray3@nd.edu and Tabitha Ricketts at  tricke01@saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 


Doctor tried in Jackson death 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — First, pros­ecutors showed a photo of Mi­chael Jackson’s pale and life­less body lying on a gurney. Then, they played a recording of his voice, just weeks before his death. 
Slow and slurred, his words echoed Tuesday through a Los Angeles courtroom at the start of the trial of the doctor accused of killing him. As a worldwide audience watched on TV and Jackson’s family looked on from inside the courtroom, a drugged Jackson said: 
“We have to be phenomenal. When people leave this show, when people leave my show, I want them to say, ‘I’ve never seen nothing like this in my life. Go. Go. I’ve never seen nothing like this. Go. It’s amazing. He’s the greatest entertainer in the world.’” 
Prosecutors played the audio for the first time during open­ing statements as they por­trayed Dr. Conrad Murray, 58, as an incompetent physician who used a dangerous anes­thetic without adequate safe­guards and whose neglect left the superstar abandoned as he lay dying. 
Defense attorneys countered that Jackson caused his own death by taking a drug dose, in­cluding propofol, after Murray left the room. 
Nothing the cardiologist could have done would have saved the King of Pop, defense attorney Ed Chernoff told ju­rors, because Jackson was des­perate to regain his fame and needed rest to prepare for a series of crucial comeback con­certs. 
A number of Jackson’s fam­ily members were in the court­house, including his father Jo­seph, mother Katherine, sisters LaToya and Janet, and broth­ers Jermaine, Randy and Tito. LaToya Jackson carried a sun­flower, her brother’s favorite flower. 

The family’s most emotional moment came when the pros­ecutor played a video excerpt from Jackson’s “This Is It” rehearsal in which he sang “Earth Song,” a plea for better treatment of the environment. 
As Jackson sang the words, “I used to dream. I used to glance beyond the stars,” his mother, Katherine, dabbed at her eyes with a tissue. 
Prosecutor David Walgren noted it was Jackson’s last per­formance. 
Murray, who arrived at court holding hands with his mother, has pleaded not guilty to invol­untary manslaughter. If con­victed, he could face up to four years in prison and the loss of his medical license. 
Speaking for more than an hour, Walgren relied on photos and audio recordings to paint Murray as an inept and reck­less caretaker. 

Walgren showed a photo of a lifeless Jackson on a hos­pital gurney. He juxtaposed the image with those of Jack­son performing. Walgren also played the recording of Jackson speaking to Murray while, the prosecutor said, the singer was under the influence of an un­known substance roughly six weeks before his death. 
Jackson trusted Murray as his physician, and “that mis­placed trust in Conrad Murray cost Michael Jackson his life,” Walgren said. 
The recurring theme was Jackson’s never-ending quest for sleep and propofol, the po­tion he called his “milk” and that he believed was the an­swer. Jurors were told that it was a powerful anesthetic, not a sleep aid, and the prosecutor said Murray severely misused it. 


Cell service arrives in NYC subway stations 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK (AP) — It was the one place that New Yorkers could go to get away from sing­ing cellphones, beeping Black-Berries and torrents of tweets. And now it’s disappearing. 
The New York City subway turned on its first cellphone an­tennas Tuesday, allowing AT&T and T-Mobile subscribers to make calls and surf the Inter­net from underground platforms and corridors at six stations in the Chelsea section of Manhat­tan. The service will expand to 271 other stations over the next five years. 
City officials say the service was long overdue, since trav­elers in other cities have been making calls underground for years. But in a city that never sleeps, or uses its “sleep” mode, reaction among passengers was mixed. 
“I’m not too happy about that,” said Helen Wekony, 84. “Some people’s voices are very stri­dent.” 
Other passengers greeted the prospect of added chatter with a solid fuhgeddaboutit. 
“Deal with it,” said George Perez, 44. “That’s New York.” 
The move comes as other com­muter railroads in the region are cracking down on such Chatty Kathies. The Metro-North Rail­road to suburban points is des­ignating phone-free “quiet cars” on 31 rush-hour trains next month, and New Jersey Transit has two quiet cars per train. 
But officials say the subway is different: The signal covers only station areas, not train tunnels, so it’s unlikely that riders will be pinned against their 5.2 million fellow weekly passengers while they ramble on about their foot problems or love lives. 
And with train brakes screeching, express trains roar­ing and the occasional steel-drum player making a ruckus, most callers on the platforms won’t want to talk long anyway, they said. 
“In this environment there will certainly be some phone calls, but on a platform it’ll really be tweets and texts and emails,” said William Bayne, chief execu­tive of Transit Wireless LLC, the company building the network. “So really, the noise pollution will not increase.” 
Some riders worried how the arrival of the Internet would af­fect the subway experience. Part of the fun of New York is people-watching in the subway, and it’s harder when everyone is bent over their BlackBerries, said Edith Lawrence, a pediatrician. 
“It disrupts a lot of that social contact that you can have with people, that eye contact or a smile,” Lawrence said. 
Officials with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the subway, say such intan­gibles are outweighed by the se­curity benefits. 
For years posters in the sub­way have been urging passen­gers to call police if they see anything suspicious — but with­out cell service, they couldn’t ac­tually do it. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security launched a service this year to alert trav­elers of terror threats via text messages, but subway riders could not receive them. 
Expanding cell service might enable terrorists to use cell­phones to detonate bombs — as the terrorists did in the Madrid train attacks of 2004 — but planners felt it was a gamble worth taking, said Carmen Bi­anco, vice president of subways for the MTA. 
Extending cellphone service to the subways was “very, very complex engineering feat,” Bayne said. 
Most of New York’s subway stations were built 100 years ago out of heavy steel girders that block radio signals. Even the steps are covered in steel for durability. 
Crews had to route fiber op­tic cables along city streets and install dozens of antennas. One of the trickiest tasks was ensur­ing the handoff between under­ground and aboveground anten­nas as a caller walks out of a station, Bayne said. 
The business side was equally tricky, said Mark Bienstock, a planner in the transportation authority’s systems office. Rath­er than let several cellphone companies all put antennas in the subway, MTA officials de­cided to contract with New York-based Transit Wireless to build the system and rent bandwidth to cell providers. The company is majority owned by Broadcast Australia of Chatswood, Austra­lia. 
Building the system will cost Transit Wireless and the cell carriers between $100 million and $200 million, officials said. The MTA will get a share of the profits, a minimum $3.3 million annually, once the network is in all the stations. 
Transit Wireless said it plans to expand service to 30 other stations within a year, including the busy hubs at Times Square, Herald Square and Columbus Circle. 




page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, September 28, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The life of a true fan 
As of this writing, the Boston Red Sox and the Tampa Bay Rays are tied atop the American League Wild Card standings and, with two games to play, the outlook is bleak for a Red Sox fan. At the beginning of Conor Kelly September, the Sox held a seemingly Sports Writer insurmountable eight-game lead. Calling to mind the collapse of the 2007 New York Mets, Boston has gone 6-19 in the final month of the season. At this point, only the most ardent Boston optimist would hope that the team can out­play Tampa in the season’s final two games. 
This is by no means a column be­moaning my fate as a Red Sox fan. I’ll be the first to admit that as a Boston sports fan I have been utterly spoiled this decade. Two World Series rings, three Super Bowls, an NBA champi­onship and a Stanley Cup are proof that sports in New England have been on a 10-year run of unprec­edented success. I can no more claim the 86-year “Curse of the Bambino” as my own than I can claim Notre Dame football’s success when players still wore leather helmets. One has to look back to the 2003 ALCS and Aar­on Boone’s extra-inning home run off of Tim Wakefield to lift the New York Yankees to the World Series to find a moment that truly encapsulated what it had meant to be a Sox fan for most of the last 95 or so years. 
The Red Sox of yore were experts at snatching defeat from the jaws of victory, at building hopes to a fervent crescendo and then dashing them. From the 1967 “Impossible Dream” team to Bill Buckner in ’86 the Sox were loveable losers much in the vein of the Mets or Chicago Cubs, whose fans, especially at Notre Dame, will be quick to point out that their mis­ery has been worse than anything experienced in Boston. No matter how good things looked, everyone knew they were cursed. 
The only parallel in my personal experience to this phenomenon is to listen to people talk about Notre Dame football, a tradition I en­tered into a few years ago and one that has already caused me undue heartbreak, loss of sleep and gen­eral confusion. Painful losses are referred to by two-word monikers — the Bush Push, Little Giants — and great teams of the past are revered with the hope that someday current incarnations can approximate their glory. Indeed, in just the beginning of my second year of watching Notre Dame football in person, the Irish have found more painful ways to lose than I thought possible, from the Tulsa game in 2010 to Michigan in 2011 when, surrounded by a sea of blue in the Big House, my elation turned to disbelief in a matter of thirty seconds, and the essence of my experience as a Notre Dame fan was laid bare for all to see. 
So if the past decade has all been a sham and this is actually what being a Red Sox fan is really about — the heartbreak and inexplicable col­lapses — then maybe I already have a head start. Who really likes winning championships anyway? 
Contact Molly Sammon at       msammon@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Alcohol and personal responsibility 
This article is Part II of a multi-part look into the University of Notre Dame’s Sexual Misconduct and Sexual Assault Policy and the relationship between sexual assault and alcohol. Part I discussed the changes made to Notre Dame’s Sexual Assault Policy.  The author would like to thank numerous students as well as staff from the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education whose conversation has helped shape this article. 
According to the Sept. 15 issue of The Scholastic, there were two reported sexual assaults on campus in 2009. That is two assaults too many. In a press release regarding changes to the University’s sexual as­sault policy, Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said, “Sexual misconduct can have no place at Notre Dame, and we are committed to con­tinuing to protect the safety and human dignity of every student.” To ensure that sexual assault really doesn’t have a place at Notre Dame, the University and the student body need to make an enormous change in attitude regarding alcohol. The changes to Notre Dame’s sexual assault policy, although excel­lent, address the symptoms and not the causes of sexual assault. According to Officer Keri Kei Shibata of NDSP, “near­ly all reported sexual assaults on cam­pus involve alcohol. The percentage is near 100 percent when the assault is committed by someone who is known to the victim (a friend, acquaintance, friend of a friend, classmate, person met at a party or bar, etc.). The vast 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
majority of sexual assaults reported on our campus (just like all other campus­es) are perpetrated by acquaintances or people known to the victim.” 
Notre Dame acknowledges that, “the vast majority of all student arrests, campus disciplinary problems, aca­demic difficulties and campus vandal­ism are alcohol-related. By controlling the amount of alcohol consumed at any one time, the number of such incidents can be greatly reduced. In addition, in­dividuals in the immediate community are likely to experience difficulties as a result of the drinking behaviors of oth­ers.” And yet, despite Notre Dame’s pol­icy prohibiting intoxication of anyone on campus and committing to enforce Indiana State Law regarding under­age drinking and possession of alcohol, alcohol abuse and underage drinking run rampant. Associated with this al­cohol abuse is sexual assault. 
There are three avenues of authority that can begin to enforce the alcohol policy more strongly: NDSP, rectors, ARs and RAs, and the student body. 
There is a concern, however, that any aggressive measures on the part of NDSP or hall staff (for instance, NDSP could begin entering dorm rooms to break up parties that are suspected of hosting underage drinking – which has been described in conversation as a “police state”) would simply push more parties off-campus, adding the driving component to the situation and putting parties outside of Notre Dame jurisdiction. Basically, off-campus par­ties would not be under the Notre Dame umbrella (and yet, when students are arrested off campus for valid legal vio­lations, the students want Notre Dame to help them and “to improve … [the] strained relationship between students and local law enforcement” (Scholas­tic)). Therefore, it seems that the cur­rent Notre Dame policy is containment, rather than prevention, when it comes to alcohol abuse — better to have stu­dents drink underage and abuse it on campus than have them wander home from off campus completely intoxicat­ed. 
There is some merit to this argu­ment. Adding the driving component to off-campus parties puts more people at risk of serious injury or death be­cause of one college student’s actions. Similarly, intoxication on campus that requires medical attention removes community resources from families in South Bend who may need treatment for something completely unprevent­able, unlike college kids choosing to drink. 
What is inconsistent with this con­tainment argument is Notre Dame’s own policy. How can the University claim to enforce Indiana State Law, prevent and punish underage drink­ing and alcohol abuse, when the Uni­versity is more focused on making sure students keep the poor behavior on campus? The University has taken non-aggressive steps to promote a safe drinking culture by revamping the Col­lege HAS Issues seminar for freshmen. But alcohol education should not be limited to the first weekend of fresh­man year. Alcohol education has to continue through a student’s four years at Notre Dame and multiple times each year. Whatever talks or educational initiatives are added should be manda­tory. 
(This article continues on The Ob­server’s website.) 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“He harms himself who does harm to another, and the evil plan is most harmful to the planner.” 
Hesiod Greek poet 

WEEKLY POLL 
Which band is best? 
Nickelback Creed All-American Rejects Train 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A walk in their shoes 
One week ago today the U.S. government killed a man named Troy Davis. Now in the scheme of things, the U.S. was likely involved in the deaths of many other people that same day and thousands of other un­named individuals died by hunger or disease within the same 24 hours. 
So amidst this sea of death, why worry about this man? We worry for the same reason that doctors worry about victims of disease. We worry because we could have saved his life. 
But why save the life of a criminal? Sister Helen Prejaun, the author of “Dead Man Walking” argues that the answer lies in the dignity of human life. The church agrees with her and upholds all life, innocent or guilty, no exceptions. 
But what if this argument doesn’t satisfy you? What if this solution doesn’t suit your understanding of crime and punishment? Well, then we can point out that the death penalty doesn’t deter crime — it just doesn’t. We could also argue that the process is expensive, that the whole system is racist, killing a hugely disproportionate amount of black men. We could even point out that the system is actually far more subjective than we ever care to admit and numerous innocent people are executed regularly, possibly as recently as last Wednesday. But the response to these could still be, “These people were criminals; they were bad people who deserved to be punished.” 
But do they deserve to die? Can we ever say that? 
After all, what if we had been born into broken homes, drugs, gangs and death lurking around every corner? Would we have done any dif­ferently? Of course from where we stand today, we all like to believe so. But then we look at every horrific moment in history and we find the awful, uncomfortable truth that good people do horrible things under the right circumstances. To acknowledge the full humanity of these criminals would be to confront the evils in ourselves. Can we do that? 
Until we do, we pray for Troy Davis, a man who shouldn’t have died. 
Veronica Vos 
senior Walsh Hall Sept. 26 

Irony in the paper 
In flipping through yesterday’s paper, I happened to discover that the question poll of the day was rather selective. The question, “What is your favorite Pokemon and why?” was asked mostly to people of a certain ethnicity: Asian. As a multiracial individual, I find it somewhat amusing, but I feel that some folks do not. So keep that in mind next time, Observer staff — especially if you’re going to run a viewpoint titled Asiatic Gaze in the same paper. 
Ethan Montemayor 
sophomore Carroll Hall Sept. 26 

Prank or vandalism? 
It is undoubtedly good fun to hide a friend’s iPhone and enjoy the next few minutes watching him frantically overturn his couch cushions and empty his backpack looking for it. It would not be so amusing, however, if you took that same friend’s iPhone and threw it against the wall, smashing it and rendering it useless. 
The fun of pranks is that they put the victim in an embarrassing and inconvenient position, but are ultimately harmless. This is not true for the common vandalism of bikes. Students who forget to lock their bikes, or who only lock the wheel, or who leave the bike free because they are just running into the library for two minutes to print a paper, often come out to find their bike in a tree or thrown across the quad. This might be amusing if not for the fact that this often bends the wheel beyond repair or otherwise damages the bike. 
This past week, we have observed at least three cases of bike vandal­ism where not only was the bike moved from its original location (harm­less in itself) but the wheels were bent in such a way as to render the bike unusable. One bike in a tree had the tire stripped off of the wheel, and another’s back wheel no longer resembled a circle. 
Some of you reading this might think that the owners of these bikes are at fault for not taking the necessary measures to secure them. This may be true. We agree that it is better to be safe than sorry, but at the same time, it is rather unsettling that this happens so often at a school that prides itself on integrity. 
So next time you are in a rush to make it to class on time, take the extra few seconds to secure your bike to a rack or pole, not just to the wheel. But if you have some free time after class and want a cheap laugh at the expense of a freshman, handle his bike with care as you hoist it into the nearest tree. 
Dan Courtney 
freshman Duncan Hall 
Andrew McGloin 
freshman Alumni Hall Sept. 19 
UWIRE 
America could use a wealth tax 
Anyone who hasn’t been living under a rock since the Reagan administration knows that America is in a hefty amount of debt. For the Patrick Stars among us, you can view a live stream of the debt increase at usdebtclock.com, but prepare to be de­pressed as you watch the federal deficit approach $15 trillion. The website also shows figures such as tax revenue and gross domestic product. One of the most interest­
ing, however, is the debt per taxpayer, which happens to be around Ethan Lovell $131,000 — considerably more than most people make in a year. Many people are already aware of thoughts and attitudes sur-The University rounding the national debt. I hope everyone reading this can agree Daily Kansan that something needs to be done to resolve the issue. Ideas presented 
include increasing revenue through tax hikes for the general popula­tion and decreasing expenditures through reducing social security and other social welfare programs. 
It’s easy to see, however, that the pendulum has to swing both ways. Neither tax increases nor expenditure cuts will solve the problem on its own. To ensure that fu­ture generations (including our own) are not plagued by a dark cloud of debt looming over their heads, some things need to change. At the current rate, we won’t just have student loans to pay back, but the debts of our country as well. Is this hitting closer to home college students? 
Now, before we get too critical of our country, it’s important to note that we are not alone in debt. Many countries around the world have been experiencing financial deficits in recent years. Greece has seen rioting and protest in response to its un­paid debts, and economically burdened Great Britain has seen civil unrest in recent months. America hasn’t seen rioting yet, but that doesn’t mean that people aren’t speaking out in response to the national deficit. Warren Buffett, one of America’s wealthiest citizens, announced that wealthy individuals have been “coddled long enough by a billionaire-friendly Congress.” 
This statement seems to have been foreshadowing, as rich individuals from other countries have since been stepping forward to contribute to their governments to ease financial strain. In an article recently published in the Guardian, Helen Pidd reveals that French and Italian millionaires and billionaires have already made excessive contributions to their respective governments, and that a group of extremely wealthy Germans has volunteered for a five percent “wealth tax” to contribute more of their money to public debt. 
Whether Warren Buffett intended to, he seems to have accelerated a movement of generous aristocrats around the world. The issue is that millionaires and billionaires in America seem to have a different sense of allegiance. They have more money than they need by a long shot, but still spend on lobbyists and tax lawyers to avoid higher taxes on their fortunes. 
As one small step in the solution to America’s debt problem, a wealth tax could raise billions of dollars in revenue for the federal government. Blanket tax hikes can be devastating for those living paycheck to paycheck, but a wealth tax could help ease strain on the government and its citizens. It is true that the majority of wealthy people have earned their fortunes and deserve to enjoy their financial success. However, as Uncle Ben famously told a young and frightened Spiderman: “With great power comes great responsibility.” 
This article first appeared in the Sept. 26 edition of the University Daily Kansan, the daily publication serving the University of Kansas. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Dear Netflix Instant Watch, 
I thought we had something special. I really did. Granted, it was a household account, so we weren’t exclusive, but I was fine with just being on the side. 
But then you went and broke my heart. You raised your price, and my household realized it was in a loveless relationship and broke it off. They’ll survive; Kevin Noonan the rest of my family has “jobs” and “lives” and stuff like that to invest themselves in and Scene Writer get over this. 
What about me though? How am I supposed to move on? Hulu? Don’t even. 
Once upon a time, I tried to make it work with Hulu. It went okay for a while. But a handful of reruns of NBC shows could only get me so far. 
And then I found you and I thought I was set, so I left Hulu out to dry. But since I left, they’ve gotten too cool for school just like you. And I’m not going to pay them the same and get less than I would from you. 
So where do I turn? Amazon Instant? Not a real thing. Block­buster? Good one. 
And so I’ve been on withdrawal. It’s rough. I’m getting sleep at night. I have time to do my homework. I haven’t seen an episode of “Psych” in weeks. I’m going to start getting the shakes pretty soon. 
But it’s given me time to think. It’s given me time to reflect on our relationship. I’ll admit, I wasn’t completely fair with you. I wasn’t technically the one “paying” for your service, but all rela­tionships are based on irrationalities aren’t they? 
Anyways though, I’ve been thinking back on our time together. And I’ve come to this conclusion — you kind of suck. Suck might not be the right word. But you definitely were not good enough to get all-cool on me and start upping your asking price. 
Sure, we had some good times. There was “Psych,” the best show currently on television. And, of course, how could I forget “Ar­rested Development,” the greatest comedy show of all time? How about “Pineapple Express,” the movie for which James Franco should’ve won an Oscar? And then maybe my favorite of yours, “Memento.” Oh Chris Nolan and your mind games, you so silly. Plus who doesn’t love Guy Pearce? Why is that guy not more fa­mous? 
But then I kept thinking. I wanted to watch “Pineapple Express” again recently. It was a wonderful film, but not a movie you can just watch once if you want to pick up on all of the subtle and highbrow humor. 
So I went to look it up. But it wasn’t there. I looked a little deeper. 
It simply wasn’t there anymore. No explanation, no excuse. Just pulled. 
Maybe you have a perfectly good reason why you did it. Or may­be you just did it because it was getting popular and the people who made “Step Up 3” got jealous. I don’t know. I just wish we could have talked about it. 
And I kept reflecting. Your attributes really weren’t that great. Yeah, you got lots of new stuff every few weeks. But the best part about your “Newly Added” section was that it gave my friends and I the chance to play everyone’s favorite game, “Japanese Anime Sit-Com or Japanese Anime Porn?” You thought you were going to keep me interested by tossing me “First Sunday” and “Titanic 2?” You were incorrect. 
And if you thought that a lackluster facelift is going to make me want to stick around, think again. Now you’re going to call your DVD service Qwikster? Really? Who came up with that? My bet is on the same guys who came up with “Sudden Valley” for the name of the housing development in “Arrested Development.” I cannot believe somebody got paid for that. 
Remember when you talked my ear off about that big Miramax deal, and how it was going to be so great? Yeah, it got me “Pulp Fiction,” but what about all the other ones I wanted to see? Where was “Rounders?” How can I act like an elitist snob around my friends if I haven’t seen “No Country for Old Men” or “There Will Be Blood?” And, heaven forbid I give praise to a Ben Affleck film but gosh darn it all, the guy can direct movies, where was “Gone Baby Gone?” 
Look, I get it. You’re thinking, “What’s eight dollars a month for this kid? That’s half a 30 rack of bottled water.” That’s a reason­able thought I guess. But like I said, relationships are all about irrational behavior. All’s fair in love and war, but don’t ask me to pay more for your service without giving me anything in return. That’s not love, that’s borderline prostitution. 
Let’s be honest with each other here for once, if you were really that important to me, if you were really that great, I could make it work. But you’re not. And you’re not. It’s not me Netflix, it’s you. 
And why am I breaking up with you in a letter? Because I’m not in high school anymore, a text wouldn’t cut it. 
Don’t let the front door hit you on the way out. 
Kevin 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

The theme from “Ghostbusters” began playing Monday night in Moreau Theater as the crowd fil­tered in. The rhythmic clapping began immediately, not led by the students in attendance, but mostly by the more “mature” crowd — even a few of the Sisters of the Holy Cross were in the audience.  It was more than obvious 
and Bill Murray threw her over his shoulder on their first meeting be­fore “Ghostbusters.” She certainly had a lot of old Hollywood tales to share, growing up the daughter of NBC television pioneer Pat Weaver and an English actress, who once working with Vivian Lee described her as, “ravishingly beautiful, but swore like a sailor.” She threw the audience into laugher when de­scribing one of her father’s events, which featured Mil-
the sold-out theater 


ton Berle, describing 
was psyched for 
him as “the Will Fer-
Sigourney Weaver. 
rell of his day”. 
Weaver revealed 
The Margaret Hill 
herself to be an in-
Series is a fantas­
spirational woman 
tic event by Saint 
who attacked roles 
Mary’s that really 
both on and off the 
should be getting as 
much attention and 
stage by letting 
loose the “thunder­
credit as possible. 
bolt of [her] educa-
Stunningly arranged 
tion” when working 
and put together, it 
on scripts and sto­
is an invaluably in­
ries. However, her 
timate encounter 
stories described 
with consistently 


first forays into the world of acting that were not always so prolific. The self-pro­claimed “super dork” from early childhood, she summed up her missteps and criti­cism in the be­gin­ning of her acting career with hila r­ity and s o m e wisdom. 
“When someone asks you how you got someplace, it’s never a nice path,” she said. 
Weaver was once fired from a production of “You Can’t Take it With You” after a week for be­ing “too tall.” She was told by not one, but two heads of departments at The Yale School of Drama that she had no talent and would never amount to anything — they were fired a few years later. It’s a story of the virtue of stubborn behavior and elbow grease if there ever was one. The saying goes that well-be­haved women never make history, and Weaver is certainly not among those women. 
Anecdotes from her career kept the audience laughing and in awe. Once, she was walloped by a charging silverback gorilla on the set of “Gorillas in the Mist,” 
esteemed and in­spiring personas at the top of their craft. Not only d o drama 
master’s class­
es get a personal and mutu­ally fulfilling day with the Marga­ret Hill visitor each year, but the entire community gets a informal glimpse into the life and work of people who are inspiring, whether acting is a pursuit or not. 
Weaver passed on two sage piec­es of advice during the evening performance. 
”I’ll tell you, there are no rules,” and “The greatest creative tool you have is failure.” 
These brilliant tidbits portray Sigourney Weaver as a woman who is constantly evolving and educating herself and trusting her own instincts and knowledge. This made her an especially poignant choice for the college as a model of the independent, educated and graceful women Saint Mary’s has made it its mission to graduate. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
PATRICK MCMANUS 
Scene Writer 
Twitter is one of the most popular web­sites on the planet, a social network and micro-blogging platform that has 200 million users. Many people who claim Twitter is stupid cite the fact that 
they do not care what you are do-
a lot of fun to follow because ing at any given time, and there is they tweet about really cool some merit in that argument. But things. Following Aziz Ansa­famous people also use Twitter, ri, you get a sense of his love and Americans enjoy few things for food, his crazy friends and more than knowing what famous whatever movie he happens people are doing. to be watching. Neal Bren-
It is hard to know exactly how nan, the co-creator of “Chap­many celebrities are on Twitter, pelle’s Show,” tweets hilarious what with fake accounts and one-liners multiple times a day. how one defines “celebrity.” Conan O’Brien, Steve Martin By one count, there are 258 and Stephen Colbert all fre­celebrities on Twitter. Many of those 
quently have silly things to say, accounts are not very active, which is refreshing and why we however, and many more are like those people. British television personalities 
The most Twitter-savvy ce­that no one is really interested lebrity of all though has to be in. Jimmy Fallon. His tweets are 
Twitter offers unprecedented representative of the unre­opportunities for famous people strained joy and awesomeness to communicate with the general that make him a much bet-public, but how do they take ad-ter late night host than SNL vantage of those opportunities? 
cast member. He often men-
Of course, it varies depending tions how cool it is hanging on who you follow. Some celebri-
out with the bands that come on ties like to go on long political rants his show. Sometimes he gives flouting the 140-character limit. a taste of the night’s mono-They tweet many times in quick logue, but mainly you can succession, clogging the timeline tell he is just keeping it real. of anyone unfortunate enough to The reason Mr. Fallon be following them. Archetypical takes first prize though is his example of this type of tweeting: integration of Twitter into his Alec Baldwin. I followed him show. He asks his followers to because “30 Rock” and “The tweet something funny around Departed” are awesome, not a certain hashtag he thinks up, because I care what he thinks and then he reads the best on his about Troy Davis or protests in show. It’s like “The New Yorker” New York. 
cartoon caption contest for the 
If a celebrity is passionate 21st century (it is also worth it about a cause, it is fine to ex-to follow “The New Yorker” for press that and direct follow-links to hilarious and insightful ers to where they can donate articles). or something.  Ashton Kutcher 
Honorable mention in the 
—
 a must-follow for anyone who celebrity Twitter popularity wants to consider themselves hip contest goes to Taylor Swift, 

—
 embodies that kind of Internet whose tweets often seem altruism, but the political rants of like she is pandering to the Mr. Baldwin are not appreciated. crowds at her concert that Baldwin is notable, though, for re-night. She endears herself to sponding frequently when follow-her followers with tweets like, 


ing as a talking head on some cable news show, which happens frequently. It’s fine to inform fans when you are doing stuff, they want to know, but these celebrities must realize that Twitter is more than a bulletin board. It is, more than anything, a source of perpetual entertainment. 
Then there are the celebrities who are 
ers tweet at him with questions, which is probably why I still follow him. Other celebrities tweet only when they have something to promote, like Louis 
C.K. He is an extremely funny stand-up comedian, but you wouldn’t know it from anything he tweets. It’s only worth fol­lowing him if you really want to be in­formed about when he is on TV or where he is doing stand up. Another example is Karl Rove. Rove is notable for following me back after I followed him, but all he ever seems to tweet is when he is appear­“Was watching SharkWeek and almost called @abiander to talk about how scary sharks are then got this overwhelming fear that they can hear me.” 
Those are a few of the broad classifi­cations of celebrity Twitter users, but a more extensive taxonomy still needs to be done and the denizens of the internet would be well served by a comprehensive list of the best celebrities to follow. 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 28, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

A title for Atlanta 
Welcome to Atlanta, where the players play. 
It’s a greeting that is as widely recognized as any, although it is most normally recited to a beat that some might call a little ludi­crous. As an Atlanta native, I find the line to be a source of excite­ment and pride, a celebration of the place that I will always call home. But I do have one request: can we please change the lyrics? 
Maybe it could be “Welcome to Atlanta, defense, although young, will benefit from the addition of defensive end Ray Edwards. I wish that I could believe in this team, I really do. But I can’t, mainly because I haven’t been able to count on the Falcons my whole life. Certainly, the team’s future looks bright and I am excited by the possibilities, but to be the champions of Super Bowl XLVI? I wouldn’t bet on it. 
As for the Hawks, 
sigh … Assuming 

where the champions Joseph Monardo the NBA resumes play,” or “Welcome play sometime in the to Atlanta, where the Sports Writer next five years, we 
players win.” Basi­cally, any phrasing that could place some impor­tance on winning. A champion­ship. Now. 
In the music video to “Wel­come to Atlanta,” Ludacris and Jermaine Dupri dance in front of Philips Arena, home to the Hawks of the NBA and, until re­cently, the Thrashers of the NHL. Luda dons an Atlanta Flames jersey, the first hockey team to have failed in Georgia’s capital, while Jermaine wears a throw­back Falcons jersey. It is great to see such civic pride from two rap icons, but for fans of Atlanta sports teams, cheering for the home team isn’t always so easy. 
Don’t get me wrong, there is plenty to celebrate in Atlanta sports. The Hawks, the Falcons and the Braves all have been playoff teams in recent years, and compared to some other cities, Atlanta may look like a successful, flourishing sports metropolis. While this is prob­ably true, it’s just not enough. 
I hear adults speak of Atlanta in the 1990’s when “Atlanta had a love affair with the Braves,” etc. etc., and it makes me su­premely jealous. After earning the worst record in all of base­ball in 1990, the Braves captured the National League Division Title in 1991, beginning what would be a string of 14 straight NL East titles, highlighted by the 1995 World Series. But I was born in 1991, and by the time I was old enough to really appreci­ate sports, the Braves’ reign of dominance was over. 
But where has it gone? Some might think that the former success of sports in the A-town has returned, or even risen to its highest level ever. With three winning sports teams, how could an Atlanta native complain? 
Well, I’ll tell you. 
To start with, for the second consecutive year I have been fed predictions about how the Falcons are going to win the Super Bowl. With Matt Ryan at the helm of an offense boast­ing multiple weapons, the Dirty Birds look to be one of the best offenses in the league. And the will have a not quite 
superstar in Joe John­son, a fantastic young player in Al Horford, and will probably finish 5th or 6th in the East before being bounced from the playoffs no later than the sec­ond round. Exciting, huh? 
Now for the saddest part: the Braves. Much more so than the Falcons or Hawks, the Braves are my team. Just a month ago, I was beginning to get excited about playoff baseball. The Braves were comfortably situated in the NL Wild Card standings, only kept out of the NL East race by the (grrr…) Phillies. But as of Tuesday, the Braves clung to a one-game lead over the Cardinals for the final NL playoff spot. And that one-game lead looks extra feeble. 
I’ve often spoken with my friends, most often as we sit in the stands of Turner Field watching a mid-July baseball game, about how exciting it would be to feel a part of a magical team, a championship team. The only Atlanta cham­pionship during my lifetime came when I was barely four years old, hardly old enough to say “baseball,” much less to appreciate it. 
Now, it seems as though we’ve been relegated to the outskirts of greatness. Atlanta has no problem supporting a very good team, even multiple good teams simultaneously, but has consistently fallen short of the ultimate goal. 
Hopefully, I will get the chance to celebrate a champi­onship in my city soon. Maybe the Braves will tomahawk chop their way to the 2011 World Series. Perhaps the Falcons will rise up and become the Super Bowl Champions. And the Hawks, well, maybe they will finish fourth in the East next season. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
MLB 
Rays stay tied for first in Wild Card 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Strong pitching, solid defense and just enough offense. Call it the Rays way. 
Tampa Bay continued its im­probable bid for the AL wild card with a 5-3 victory over the New York Yankees on Tuesday night, taking the chase down to the last night of the regular season after getting home runs from Matt Joyce and Ben Zo­brist and turning a triple play that helped them stay in the game. 
Seeking their third playoff berth in four seasons, the Rays are tied with Boston after mak­ing up nine games in the stand­ings since Sept. 4. 
The Red Sox beat Baltimore 8-7, and if the teams remain tied after Wednesday’s sea­son finales, they will meet in a one-game playoff Thursday at Tropicana Field. 
“We don’t feel like we have anything to lose. We’ve had a great run,” Zobrist said. “We’re hoping to cap it with a playoff berth.” 
Joyce’s three-run homer off former teammate Rafael So­riano (2-3) was the All-Star’s first in more than three weeks and it wiped out a 3-2 deficit in the seventh. Zobrist hit a two-run drive off Bartolo Colon in the second, and the Rays kept the score close by turning the third triple play in franchise history after falling behind 

“I’m not pulling for 
in the sixth. on a start-
anybody.  I know that 
“Everybody’s ing pitcher thirsty for of-both parties involved, for the fina­fense, and we’d Boston and Tampa Bay, le, but it fig-like to score are having sleepless ures to be a more,” Rays nights. They’re hungry.” reliever. manager Joe New York Maddon said. general
Brian Cashman 
“But we’re built manager 
Yankees General Manager 
around pitching Brian Cash-the triple play that helped Jer­emy Hellickson escape further damage after Nick Swisher’s RBI double gave New York a 3-2 lead in the sixth. 
The Yankees, who clinched the division title and homefield advantage throughout the AL playoffs last week, rested Derek Jeter and plan to play most — if not all — of their regular lineup again on Wednesday. Ma nager Joe Girardi remained undecided 
and defense.” 
Jake McGee (4-2) pitched one score­less inning to get the win. With a crowd of 22,820 standing and cheering, Kyle Farnsworth got the final three outs for his 25th save in 31 chances. The victory was the fourth straight for Tampa Bay, which trailed the Red Sox by nine games before battling back into the wild-card race. 
“Catching Boston was a big thing, but we still haven’t ac­complished what we set out to do from the beginning of spring training,” Rays designated hit­ter Johnny Damon said. 
Russell Martin hit a solo homer for the Yankees in the third, but also grounded into man reiter­
ated how 
nice it is to 
be in a po­
sition to not have to go down to the wire. 
“I’m not pulling for anybody. I know I’m glad that we were able to do what we did,” Cash-man said. “I know that both parties involved, Boston and Tampa Bay, are having sleepless nights. They’re hungry. Rather than have to live to through it, I think both want to fast forward it to see what happens. I’ve been there.” 
Zobrist has homered five times in his last 10 games af­ter going 39 games without hit­ting one. Martin’s solo homer trimmed the early lead to 2-1, and the Yankees tied it in the fourth when Brett Gardner, who had singled, scored from third as Curtis Granderson grounded into a double play. 
New York wasted a couple of opportunities to take charge against Hellickson, who allowed three runs and six hits in six innings. Mark Teixeira flied to right field with the bases loaded to end the third, and the Yan­kees also failed to score with the bases filled in the sixth, when Martin grounded into the 5-4-3 triple play. 
After Swisher’s RBI double, Jorge Posada drew an intention­al walk to load the bases against Hellickson with no outs. The rookie escaped the jam when Martin hit a sharp grounder to third baseman Evan Longoria, who stepped on the bag and threw to second baseman Zo­brist for the second out. Zobrist’s relay to first arrived ahead of Martin, who dived head first into the base. 
“What I was hoping for was maybe a double play and giving up one run,” Maddon said. “But my God, how do you even envi­sion a triple play. We were very fortunate with that. The ball was hit in a perfect spot.” 
Girardi agreed. 
“You can’t hit it in a more per­fect spot,” he said. “That was a big break for them.” 
Colon allowed two runs and seven hits in 5 1-3 innings. Girar­di used four relievers — Soriano, Cory Wade, David Robertson and Mariano Rivera — in their final tuneup for the playoffs. 
“We’re professionals. We try to win every game,” Martin said. “We want to play these guys tough. They just had our num­ber today.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Experienced cartoonist wanted. 50 to 75 cartoons $10 each.  
Contact Professor Weber at weber.1@nd.edu 

ADOPTION: ND/SMC family hoping to adopt again. Love, opportunity, security, devoted dad, at-home mom. No pressure or commitment. We work with Adoption professionals who can vouch for home study and FBI clearance checks. Contact Atty:Steven Kirsh (800)333-5736, or feel free to e-mail us directly: eneadoptagain@gmail.com Facebook.com/adoptionEJEllen TEXT or CALL: 317.473.7635 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Anna, You come and ask me, girl, To set you free, girl, You say he loves you more than me, So I will set you free, Go with him. Go with him. 
Anna, Girl, before you go now, I want you to know, now, That I still love you so, 
But if he loves you mo’, Go with him. 
All of my life, I’ve been searchin’ for a girl To love me like I love you. Oh, now.. But every girl I’ve ever had, Breaks my heart and leave me sad. What am I, what am I supposed to do. Oh... 
Anna, Just one more thing, girl. You give back your ring to me, and I will set you free, Go with him. 
Anna, Just one more thing, girl. You give back your ring to me, and I will set you free, Go with him. you can go with him, girl Go with him 

Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MLB 

Guillen looks forward to fresh start with Marlins 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Ozzie Guillen tweeted Tuesday that he was in town “ready to go” with the Florida Marlins, and the clubhouse buzz was all about the new manager. 
One minor holdup: The Marlins had yet to confirm a deal, saving some suspense for the final day of the regu­lar season Wednesday. But Guillen’s website eliminated much of the drama by leaking the news he has agreed to be­come the Marlins’ manager. 
A post Monday night quoted Guillen announcing he was Florida bound. The blog was taken down a short time later and replaced by a post that discussed Guillen’s depar­ture from the Chicago White Sox, while making no men­tion of the Marlins. 
On Tuesday afternoon Guil­len tweeted: “Weird to be in miami in this time but very happy ready to go”. 
That sounded fine to Mar­lins players. 
“This should be a good thing,” catcher John Buck said. “It’s a step forward. It’s a commitment by the team showing we want to win. Part of that is getting a manager who has proven that.” 
Guillen’s briefly posted blog item said he had hoped to spend his entire manageri­al career with the White Sox, where he won a World Series title in 2005. 
“But there comes a point when you need to move on, and that point has come,” he was quoted as saying. “The Florida Marlins believe I am the right man for the job to bring another World Series to South Florida. ... 
“I can’t tell you how thrilled I am to be a part of the Mar­lins organization. I have an unbelievable amount of re­spect for the Marlins, own­er Jeffrey Loria, president Larry Beinfest, and general manager Michael Hill. I can’t thank them enough for this opportunity and look forward to the future. I can’t wait to get started!” 
Florida manager Jack McKeon said Monday he planned to retire at the end of the season. Guillen an­nounced his departure with the White Sox hours later, but said nothing about taking another job. Florida officials declined to comment. 
The Marlins, who move into a new ballpark next spring, plan a big ceremony in con­junction with the final game at their current stadium Wednesday. There’s specula­tion they want to cap the oc­casion by introducing Guillen as manager, or they may do it at the new ballpark Thurs­day. 
“All the pieces are coming together,” slugger Mike Stan­ton said. “We got the stadi­um, and we got the manager.” 
The buzz began more than a year ago that Guillen might be reunited with Loria in Mi­ami, where he was McKeon’s third base coach with the 2003 World Series champi­ons. 
Guillen became the White Sox manager that November, and in eight season he had a record of 678-617. It was a sometimes stormy tenure, and when his recent quest for a contract extension was de­nied, he received permission to be released from his cur­rent deal. 
The Marlins are stagger­ing to a last-place finish in the NL East. With the team moving to a new home and making a push to become a contender, Loria has said he wants an experienced man­ager. 
The outspoken, sometimes outrageous Guillen would be the Marlins’ fourth manag­er since early 2010, and his relationship with manage­ment could create some off­the-field excitement. Strong-willed Joe Girardi lasted only one season with Florida in 2006, clashed with Loria and others in the organization, and was fired shortly before being chosen NL manager of the year. 
Several Marlins players said the tell-it-like-it-is skip­per would be a good fit for the team. 
“That’s probably something we need around here,” Stan­ton said. “Let us know, and don’t beat around the bush. It’s better than doing it be­hind your back. He’s going to come right to you.” 
Left fielder and Twitter sensation Logan Morrison was impressed to hear Guil­len blogs along with tweeting, and does so in two languages. 
“Now I need a blog, proba­bly two,” Morrison said. “And I’ve got to learn a foreign lan­guage in the offseason. I’ll have to follow him. If I don’t, I might get fined.” 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, September 28, 2011 
NBA 

Stern puts positive spin on situation 



Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Smiling widely but even resorting to a memorable NBA cliche to avoid specifics, David Stern provided little insight into the direction of the league’s labor situation. 
That, he hinted, could come Wednesday. 
Negotiators for the NBA and its players met for only about two hours Tuesday and plan to resume the talks early Wednesday. Stern said that meeting will determine how soon it’s worth sitting down again. 
And if it’s not later this week, more cancellations are likely next week. 
It’s been expected there would be no talks Thursday because members of both bargaining teams will be observing the Jewish holi­day, but they could resume before the weekend if prog­ress is being made. 
“They and we have both agreed that so long as there is reason to keep discuss­ing, we will keep discussing, undeterred by the calendar or weekends or things like that,” Stern said. “We will know more after tomorrow’s session.” 
Both sides said neither con­cern nor optimism should be read into the brevity of the meeting. They simply needed time to think about what had been discussed. 
“We’ve talked extensively in ideas and concepts, these are things that if we can get into the range of, get into the zone of, then maybe we can put a deal together,” players’ association president Derek Fisher of the Lakers said. 
Unlike last week, Stern grinned often while speak­ing to reporters, but he said that was “only because when I didn’t smile the last time I was described as something between dour and surly, so this is my smiling face. And we’re looking forward to re­convening tomorrow.” 
He repeatedly said the sides discussed “concepts,” but wouldn’t get into any of them. And when asked if more exhibition games would be scrapped without a breakthrough this week, he borrowed a line from Ra­sheed Wallace in answering. 
“Both teams played hard,” he said. “And the calendar is not our friend.” 

Training camps were post­poned and all 43 preseason games scheduled for Oct. 9-15 were canceled Fri­day. With the lockout near­ly three months complete, players and owners are try­ing to agree on a labor deal in time to avoid any further damage to the NBA calendar. The regular season begins Nov. 1. 
The format was again with small groups, and that will remain the case Wednesday. However, Deputy Commis­sioner Adam Silver said the owners’ labor relations com­mittee would be prepared to return to the table this week if necessary. 
“They stand ready to come to New York, or wherever else, if there’s a reason to continue on Friday,” he said. “So the groups may expand.” 
Stern and Silver were joined by Spurs owner Peter Holt, who leads the labor re­lations committee, and NBA senior vice president and deputy general counsel Dan Rube. 
Fisher and union executive director Billy Hunter had at­torneys Jeffrey Kessler and Ron Klempner with them, and economist Kevin Mur­phy will return Wednesday. 
Neither side would say if there were any new propos­als, with Fisher also using the word concepts. 
“We’re not holding any­body accountable to ideas being thrown out in the room,” he said. “It’s really just a process that we’re try­ing to go through to see if we can get a deal done.” 
Stern and Fisher said there was discussion of both major obstacles to a deal, the sala­ry cap system and the split of revenues. Players were guar­anteed 57 percent under the previous collective bargain­ing agreement, but have said the owners’ proposals would have them in the 40s. 
Stern was asked if the sides would continue to meet often if this wasn’t headed somewhere. Though he as­sumed they would, a clearer idea could emerge Wednes­day. 
“We won’t really be able to answer that question fully until after tomorrow’s ses­sion,” he said. 
Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
MLB 

Boston holds on to narrow victory over Orioles 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE — The Baltimore Orioles are playing significant games in September only be­cause that’s how the schedule turned out. 
The hope is that one of these years, these late-season games will be meaningful to the Orioles because they will be the ones hunting down a playoff spot. 
Stuck in the middle of Boston’s late-season swoon, Baltimore lost 8-7 on Tuesday night. The victory enabled the Red Sox to stay tied with Tampa Bay for the AL wild-card spot with one game left. 
Important for the Red Sox? Ab­solutely. Not so much for the Ori­oles, even though they have come to enjoy the spoiler’s role. 
“They’re meaningful for them, not for us,” Baltimore’s Adam Jones said. “It would be differ­ent if we were playing meaning­ful games. This place would be rocking; it would be a totally dif­ferent atmosphere. But they need the games more than we do, so I think all the pressure’s on them.” 
The hope for the last-place Ori­oles is that they gain from the ex­perience. 
“The potential’s there,” man­ager Buck Showalter said. “I hope it makes them continue to be hungry to get some other things shored up so we can be a part of this in a different situa­tion.” 
After blowing a nine-game lead in the span of 23 days, the Red Sox will send Jon Lester (15-9) to the mound against Baltimore on Wednesday night in an effort to get into the postseason for the fourth time in five years. Lester, Boston’s winningest pitcher, will be throwing on three days’ rest. 
A month ago, the Red Sox would shudder at the prospect of a must-win situation on the final day. But here they are, and they intend to make the best of it. 
“I think it’s really good for baseball, not so good for my stomach,” manager Terry Fran­cona said. “It’s exciting. If you don’t want to show up [Wednes­day] and play, you’ve got no pulse. My goodness, I can’t re­member being that nervous in a long time. Go back to the hotel and not sleep, and then show up and see what we can do.” 
Boston will be looking to put together its first winning streak since sweeping a doubleheader from Oakland on Aug. 27. If the Rays and Red Sox remain tied af­ter Wednesday, Tampa Bay will host a one-game playoff Thurs­day. 
“Everybody’s been watching the scoreboard and knowing that we need to win tonight so we can come back [Wednesday] and fight through it again,” Boston slugger David Ortiz said. “I hope if I’m still here next year we can make it easier. We’re playing like this is a playoff already.” 
Rookie Ryan Lavarnway be­came the unlikeliest of heroes for Boston, hitting his first two major league homers after being thrust into the lineup because of injuries to catchers Jarrod Salta­lamacchia (sore collarbone) and Jason Varitek (knee). 
Lavarnway, a Yale philosophy major who never played a big league game before August, hit a three-run drive in the fourth in­ning and added a solo shot for an 8-4 lead in the eighth. 
“We’ve seen a lot of interest­ing things here over the years, but that was right near the top,” Francona said. 
Lavarnway said, “It feels good, but the job’s not done. We still got to go out [Wednesday] and win another ballgame.” 
Jacoby Ellsbury and Marco Scutaro also connected for Bos­ton, which scored all its runs on home runs. 
Alfredo Aceves (10-2) pitched 3 2-3 innings of three-hit relief for the Red Sox, who survived hom­ers from Baltimore’s Matt Wiet­ers and Jones. 
After the Orioles scored twice in the eighth off Daniel Bard to make it 8-6, Jonathan Papel­bon survived a hectic ninth for his 31st save. Wieters drove in a run with a grounder and Bal­timore had the potential tying run at second with two outs be­fore Jones grounded out on a 3-2 pitch. 
“We battled down to the final pitch,” Jones said. “That’s the way I live. You know we ain’t go­ing to quit.” 
Pitching at Camden Yards for the first time since being traded by Baltimore to Seattle in Feb-ruary 2008, Boston starter Erik Bedard gave up three runs and five hits in 3 1-3 innings. The left-hander struck out six but needed 84 pitches to get 10 outs. 


Bedard retired the first two batters without difficulty, then walked Nick Markakis and yield­ed an RBI double to Vladimir Guerrero to fall behind 1-0. 
Boston took the lead in the third against rookie Zach Brit-ton (11-11) when Scutaro hit a two-out double and Ellsbury fol­lowed with his 32nd homer. Ells-bury has hit in 35 straight games against the Orioles, a streak that began on April 17, 2009. 
Lavarnway connected on a 3-2 pitch in the fourth following sin­gles by David Ortiz and Adrian Gonzalez. Wieters answered in the bottom half with his 22nd home run, the second in two nights, to make it 5-3. 
A triple by Carl Crawford and Scutaro’s homer off Jason Berken made it 7-3 in the sixth. Jones led off the bottom half with a homer off Aceves. 


page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, September 28, 2011 
MLB 

Brewers slug way to win over Pirates 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — Prince Field­er remembers the last time he hit three home runs in a game. It was in high school, during an intrasquad scrimmage. 
For all his baseball-bashing exploits, Fielder had never homered three times in a game in the majors — until Tuesday. 
After massive home runs in the third and fifth inning, Fielder hit a two-run shot in the seventh that lifted the Milwau­kee Brewers to a 6-4 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
“You guys know me,” Fielder said. “If I see it, I’m swinging hard.” 
Milwaukee star Ryan Braun went 1 for 2 with a pair of walks, and remains locked in a tight race with the New York Mets’ Jose Reyes for the NL bat­ting title going into the final game of the season. 
Reyes went 3 for 6 in a loss to Cincinnati and is batting .336 for the year. Braun is at .335. 
Rickie Weeks also homered for Milwaukee, his first since returning from an ankle in­jury — and as much as Fielder celebrated his own home runs 
Tuesday,  he  actually  seemed  
more  excited  after  Weeks’  
drive.  

“There’s going to be more of those, I’m sure, from him,” Fielder said. 
John Axford pitched a 1-2-3 ninth for his 46th save. 
Fielder’s decisive final homer actually was the least impres­sive of the three, barely sailing over the wall in right field after he hit monster shots earlier in the game. But it was the last one that made the biggest dif­ference, breaking a 4-4 tie. 
With the win, the Brewers crept closer to securing home-field advantage in the first round of the playoffs. Milwau­kee came into Tuesday’s game with a one-game advantage over Arizona for the No. 2 seed in the NL. 
After the game, the televi­sions in the Brewers clubhouse were tuned to the Diamond­backs’ game against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
“They’re fired up for it,” Brewers manager Ron Roe­nicke said. “They’re fired up to finish this season off right to get into the playoffs and wheth­er it’s just home-field advan­tage, I don’t know. But there’s a very good attitude in how we’re going about these games.” 
Fielder is happy the Brewers have something left to play for to keep them sharp, even after they clinched the NL Central. 
“That’s very important,” Fielder said. “Not that we can’t do it on the road by any means, but everybody knows we play a lot better at home. It’s good to have the fans behind you, get your confidence, a little swag before you have to go on the road.” 
But even if Wednesday’s fi­nale doesn’t have a bearing on playoff seeding, Fielder didn’t plan on sitting out. He wants to play all 162 games. 
“I just like playing,” Fielder said. “I don’t like sitting on the bench at all.” 
LaTroy Hawkins (3-1) took the win, and Jared Hughes (0-1) was charged with the loss. 
Fielder’s big night was the third three-homer perfor­mance for the Brewers this sea­son and left him with 38 on the year. Corey Hart and Casey Mc-Gehee had three-homer games earlier in the season. 
Fielder and Weeks hit back-to-back homers in the third. Weeks, who sprained his left ankle July 27 and returned Sept. 8, now has 20 homers this season. 
Pittsburgh’s Ross Ohlendorf scattered five hits in five in­nings — but three of those hits went a very long way, thanks to Fielder and Weeks. 
Brewers starter Randy Wolf struggled, throwing 111 pitch­es in 5 2-3 innings. He gave up nine hits and four runs, includ­ing a bases-loaded walk that turned out to be his final bat­ter. 
“I was a little bit off today,” Wolf said. “And every time they scored, we seemed to find a way — or Prince really found a way — to step up and have big hits.” 
After beating the Brewers on Monday, Pittsburgh got off to a fast start. Neil Walker led off the second with a ground-rule double, then scored when a looping line drive by Matt Pag­nozzi fell in front of right fielder Hart. 
MLB 
Betemit assuages Leyland’s concerns 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — With one swing, Wilson Betemit helped ease at least one of his manager’s postseason concerns. 
Betemit hit a 423-foot home run in his first game back from left knee sore­ness, and the Detroit Tigers beat the Cleveland Indians 9-6 on Tuesday night. 
Betemit hadn’t played since Sept. 16, and manag­er Jim Leyland said Monday he was concerned about the third baseman. But Betemit was in the lineup Tuesday, and he gave AL Central champion Detroit a 4-0 lead in the second inning with the towering homer to right field. 
Betemit also drew a walk, and he scored twice before being pulled after five in­nings. 
“It worked out pretty good,” Leyland said. “Wil­son came back and played a few innings, went up and got treated right after­ward. He’ll play tomorrow again.” 
The Tigers remained one game behind AL West champion Texas, which cruised to a 10-3 victory at the Los Angeles Angels. Detroit needs to finish at least even with the Rang­ers to have home-field ad­vantage in the first round of the playoffs. If not, the Tigers will start on the road against the New York Yankees. 
“You just embrace it,” Detroit right-hander Max Scherzer said. “Who knows what happens? But that’s the beauty of postseason baseball. We’re just excited to be in it.” 
Scherzer (15-9) allowed four runs and seven hits in 5 2-3 innings, striking out seven in his final tuneup for the postseason. Jose Valverde pitched the ninth, earning his 48th save in as many chances. 
Jeanmar Gomez (5-3) al­lowed eight runs and 10 hits in 4 2-3 innings. He had won his previous five starts. 
Delmon Young had three hits for Detroit, including a two-run homer. 
Miguel Cabrera homered and doubled, and his AL-leading batting average re­mained at .343. 
“He’s locked in pretty good, obviously. That’s good news,” Leyland said. “He’s swinging really good. His concentration level is tremendous right now, so hopefully that’ll keep up.” 
Detroit has left no doubt about which team is the class of the division. The Tigers have won their last 15 games against second-place Cleveland and third-place Chicago. They have won nine in a row against the Indians, who trail De­troit by 14 games. 
“That’s a team that is going into the playoffs in better shape than almost any other team,” Cleve­land manager Manny Acta said. “They’ve been play­ing great for more than a month — and they are playing hard for home-field advantage. You can’t get away with many mistakes against them right now.” 
The Tigers took the first game of this regular sea­son-ending series against Cleveland 14-0, and they kept pouring it on against Gomez. Young opened the scoring with an RBI single, and Magglio Ordonez drove in two runs later in the first with a single. 
After Betemit’s homer, which landed around the back of the lower level of seating in right field, Cleveland scored a run in the fourth on an RBI double by Shelley Duncan. Young’s two-run shot in the bottom of the inning made it 6-1. 
Ordonez drove in an­other run with a double in the fifth, and Ryan Ra­burn’s double the same in­ning made it 8-2. Scherzer, who will start Game 3 of Detroit’s first-round play­off series, didn’t make it out of the sixth, allowing a two-out, two-run single by Jason Donald. Reliever Daniel Schlereth struck out Kosuke Fukudome with two outs and the bases loaded. 
Cabrera homered in the bottom half, his 30th of the year. Cabrera reached 30 home runs for the fifth straight season and sev­enth time in his career. 
Jim Thome hit an RBI double in the seventh, and after Raburn dropped a routine flyball in right for an error, Lonnie Chisen­hall added a run-scoring single to make it 9-6. 
The game was delayed 31 minutes at the start by rain. 


Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
Lions 
continued from page 20 
the game. After the Pyros’ first possession, the Lyons defense clamped down and made some big defensive plays, including three sec­ond-half interceptions — one of which was returned for a touchdown. 
Senior quarterback Kat Rodriguez paced the of­fense with a balanced, dual-threat presence by passing for a touchdown, completing a two-point conversion and keeping the Pasquerilla East defense honest as a rushing threat. 
Lyons junior captain Erica Miller praised the defense’s effort after its initial strug­gles. 
“There was a lot of commu­nication on defense,” Miller said. 
I loved our mentality after giving up the initial touch­down, how we didn’t give up.” 
Lyons looks to continue its winning ways against Walsh, while Pasquerilla East will compete for its first win against Lewis on Sunday. 

Contact James Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu 
McGlinn 14, Walsh 7 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
McGlinn left it to late dra­matics Monday night, reg­istering two touchdowns in 
the final two minutes of play to shock the Walsh de­fense.  
Down 7-0 in a penal-ty-ridd en, defensive struggle, the Sh amrocks (3-1) looked to be all but finished amid their offen­sive strug­junior quarterback Lauren Miller threw deep across the middle to senior receiv­er Kate Tucker, who sprint­ed past the Walsh defense for a 62-yard score. 
“Kate ran a great route and had an amazing run af­ter the catch,” Miller said. “We were able to time the play perfectly”. 
After missing the two-point conversion, McGlinn’s defense came up with a huge stop to hand the ball back to the Shamrock of­
“This was the tale of two halves for our offense. We struggled for most of the game, but we were able to execute much better on our two scoring drives.” 
Lauren Miller McGlinn quarterback 

gles. With the ball on their own 18-yard line and less than two minutes to play, fense with less than 30 sec­onds re­maining. 
After a 4-yard scramble and an 11 -ya rd compl e­tion, Mill­er scored on a run to the cor­ner of the 
end zone with only three 
seconds left on the clock to 
give the Shamrocks a dra­matic win. “This was the tale of two halves for our offense,” Miller said. “We struggled for most of the game, but we were able to execute much better on our two scoring drives. Our de­fense kept us in it and gave us a chance to win in the end.” A 29-yard touchdown pass from junior quarter­back Kat Leach late in the first half put Walsh on the board first. “We played a really sol­id game, we just have to work on finishing both of­fensively and defensively,” Leach said. “This was a tough one to lose.” Walsh (0-2-1) will take on Lyons next, while McG­linn will try to build off its momentum against Pas­querilla East on Sunday. The Badin-Pangborn and Pasquerilla West-Howard games were post­poned due to the rain and flooding at the Riehle Fields. A makeup date has not yet been announced. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles await matchup with MIAA champs 
Observer Staff Report 
A victory against 2010 MIAA Champion Calvin on Wednesday would mark the first time since 2006 that the Belles won two conference matchups in a row. 
The 2010 conference cham­pions, No. 3 Calvin will fight to bring back the glory of last year Wednesday on their home field against the No. 6 Belles. The Knights have yet to beat a non-MIAA opponent this season. 
The Belles (6-2, 2-2 MIAA) snapped a two-game losing streak Saturday after junior midfielder Ashley Morfin scored two goals in the second half to lift Saint Mary’s to a 2-1 victory over Albion (0-8, 0-4). 
Although the Knights (3-5, 3-1) have yet to earn a victory outside of the conference this season, they have nine points in con­ference play, putting them just three points and one win behind league leaders Alma and Kalam­azoo. The Knights also have the second largest goal differential in the league. Their 12-5 margin sits only behind Alma’s mark of 17-5. 
Calvin shut out Olivet (0-9, 0-5) 3-0 on Saturday. The home win was the third game in five days for the Knights, but fatigue was not an issue for junior midfielder Francesca Smith, who scored two of the team’s three goals. 
The Belles and Knights will face off on Calvin’s home field in Grand Rapids, Mich., at 4 p.m. Wednesday. 
MLB 
Fox sues Dodgers over sale of television rights 



Associated Press 
DOVER, Del. — Fox Sports sued the Los Angeles Dodgers late Tuesday over the proposed television rights sale that owner Frank McCourt has been count­ing on to keep the troubled fran­chise afloat. 
In the filing, Fox Sports Net West asked a Delaware bank­ruptcy judge to reject any pro­posed sale of the Dodgers’ tele­vision rights that does not abide by the terms of the current con­tract. 
The filing was first reported by the Los Angeles Times and comes as Major League Base­ball aims to force a sale of the team with a request for an Oc­tober hearing on its motion. The Dodgers earlier Tuesday asked a judge to postpone that hear­ing. 
Fox retains exclusive nego­tiating rights through Novem­ber 2012, as well as the right to match any other offer under that contract. 
The complaint also seeks un­specified damages. The lawsuit claims that the Dodgers already have violated the current Fox contract in part by sharing con­fidential broadcast rights infor­mation — “even after direct and explicit warnings” according to the filing. 
A phone message seeking comment from Dodgers attorney Brian Bennett was not immedi­ately returned after business hours Tuesday. An email also was sent to Dodgers spokesman Robert Siegfried. 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, September 28, 2011 


Rees 
continued from page 20 
a spread offense, Kelly identi­fied specific features that could be incorporated into the offense moving forward. The coach said stretching the field verti­cally with the long ball and more touches for senior wide receiver Michael Floyd, who tallied 27 yards on just four catches in Sat­urday’s contest, would be looked at moving forward. 
“I think there’s going to be some games as it unfolds that [Floyd’s] not going to get 10 pass­es — it’s just the nature of the game,” he said. “I think there’s a number of ways that we can continue to make sure that he gets the appropriate amount of touches, but we just don’t want that to be a consistent kind of scenario more than anything else.” 
After completing the first leg of the season, Kelly stressed the importance of keeping his play­ers healthy heading into the heart of the season. After play­ing three consecutive teams cur­rently ranked in the USA Today top-25 to start the season, Notre Dame does not face a currently top-ranked opponent until the season finale against No. 4 Stan­ford. 
“Going into week five, the most important thing is that our guys are taking care of themselves and making sure that we’re able to get all of our players at 100 percent on Saturday,” Kelly said, “because when you play the kind of schedule that we have in the first five weeks, you’ve got to make sure that your guys are ready to play every week physi­cally.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Usher 
continued from page 20 
ton tied for the tournament championship after the Gaels came from behind to clip Hous­ton for a share of the title at 30-over-par. Meanwhile, Tex-as-Arlington junior Paul Mc­Connell finished first in the individual competition for the third-place Mavericks. 
“It’s interesting because Houston was such an up-and-down team, but they re­ally played well last year and showed it today,” Kubinski said. “A lot of the same applies for St. Mary’s, and they each had four really good scores consistently that helped them to pull away.” 
After finishing the first round tied for third, things looked promising for Notre Dame. But the Irish struggled in the later rounds with high scores that put them out of title contention, something that Kubinski par­tially attributes to the harsh conditions as rain poured down throughout the tournament. 
“We played in the worst of [the rain], for sure,” he said. “But even with the rain it didn’t really change where we fin­ished. If we can eliminate some of the big numbers we are go-Carolina for The Invitational at ing to start winning tourna-Kiawah Island on Oct. 17. ments.” 


Notre Dame has a three-week Contact Andrew Gastelum at break before heading to South agaste11@nd.edu 
exponentially through the be-
Albion 
ginning of the season. “Bodien’s vocal leadership 
continued from page 20 has really emerged over the last few weeks,” Kuschel said. “People are buying into what 
lied on the leadership of Bodi-we want to do here. We’re en to direct the Belles, a com-motivated to play at a high modity that she has increased level of volleyball. We’re get­ting contributions through our whole lineup, through all classes. We didn’t necessarily have that last year.” 
Saint Mary’s will host Albi­on at 7 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
JUMBLE MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 
Lions blow by Pyros defense 
By JAMES SOUTHARD 
Sports Writer 
Lyons won its first game of the year over Pasque­rilla East on Monday night thanks to some timely forced turnovers and a fluid offensive tempo. 
The Pyros (0-2-1) came out of the gate hot after freshman receiver Alex Good hauled in a 30-yard touchdown on the team’s first possession of the game. However, they made several key mistakes that changed the tide of the game, including penal­ties and three second-half turnovers. 
“Our defense was sol­id,” senior captain Nneka Ekechukwu said. “We just needed to carry that inten­sity throughout the rest of the game.” 
Ekechukwu said that the team has promise to build upon. 
“I loved how we came out strong from the beginning, scoring in the first ten sec­onds of our first posses­sion,” she said. 
The Lions (1-2) rallied after a slow start in which they surrendered a touch­down on the first play of 
see LIONS/page 17 
FOOTBALL 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
A gritty 15-12 victory over Pittsburgh on Saturday restored confidence in Notre Dame’s abil­ity to close out games. After eight penalties for 85 yards, two un­timely turnovers and a missed field goal, Irish coach Brian Kelly reaffirmed the strides his team still needs to make in his weekly press conference Tues­day. 
Nevertheless, a win is a win, no matter how ugly. 
“I look at the first two weeks where we averaged over 500 yards in offense, and we lost both games,” Kelly said. “For me it’s really about winning games and making certain that we do that. I’d rather do that and be out-coached and win ugly … Beauty points, style points — I’m not really interested in those things.” 
Luckily for Kelly, sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees ad­ministers the Irish offense with little of either. But the young quarterback once again de­livered a late fourth-quarter touchdown when the Irish need­ed it most, finding junior tight end Tyler Eifert with a six-yard touchdown pass that proved to be the game-winner against Pittsburgh. 
“You can put together an in­credible highlight reel with Tommy Rees this year,” Kelly said. “And you could also put to­gether a blooper film. So it’s re­ally being able to gain that con­sistency of play after play after play. A lot of that is learning and experience, and that’s where 
Getting it done 

MEN’S GOLF 

Irish endure tough day at Warren 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
The Irish jumped up one spot to fifth place during Tuesday’s third and final round of Notre Dame’s sixth annual Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic at the Warren Golf Course. 
“It was a tough day,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “In every tournament we have had two or three guys who didn’t re­ally play as well as they could, and it hurt us again.” 
Senior Max Scodro led the Irish with a fourth-place indi­vidual standing after shooting a 69 (-1) in Tuesday’s final round. The Chicago native opened the third round with back-to-back birdies and never looked back during his commanding per­formance. 

“Max was solid throughout the tournament, but he was just outstanding [Tuesday],” Kubinski said. “I think he had ing two rounds Monday with a just one bad swing [Tuesday]. plus-3. The British internation-On Monday, he had a few men-al’s score brought him down in tal mistakes and some issues the individual rankings after with course management that he shot an 81 (+11) on the final cost him, but he definitely came day of play. back strong.” “It was just a few rounds that 
Senior Tom Usher sat in unraveled on him,” Kubinski ninth place after a solid open-said. “It looked like he was back we’re at.” 
Rees committed another two turnovers in the contest, bring­ing his season total to nine. Nev­ertheless, Kelly reaffirmed his confidence in Rees’ ability to im­prove as the season progresses, downplaying the possibility of a potential switch back to senior 


to where he was at the end of 
last year. But I think we have 
to take a lot of the good things 
Tom showed in this tourna­
ment and get him back to the 
position he was in.” 
St. Mary’s (Calif.) and Hous­
see USHER/page 18 
quarterback Dayne Crist as the starter. 
“We better not be talking about this stuff next year or there will be another quarterback play­ing,” Kelly said. “But [Rees] is learning. Some of the body of his work is really good and some of it needs great improvement, and he knows that. I know that, and we believe that he’s capable of being more consistent for a lon­ger period of time.” 
Although Rees’ inability to scramble and his limited “escap­ability” pose potential threats to 
see REES/page 18 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles enter conference matchup riding streak 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Buoyed by their back-to-back wins, the Belles will take on Albion at home Wednesday in an MIAA conference matchup. 
Saint Mary’s (5-7, 3-4 MIAA) will need to rely heavily on its offensive strategy to bring its win streak to three games, Belles coach Toni Kuschel said.
 “Our middle hitters have blocked and hit very well over the last few weeks,” Kuschel said. “And that’s a direct result of our passing and defense. We have to defend and pass well in order to run our offense.” 
Belles junior setter Danie Brink leads the team in de­fending and passing with 344 assists this season and an av­erage of 8.19 assists per set. Brink earned the MIAA Spe­cialty Player of the Week award after reaching her 2,000th ca­reer assist against Manchester on Saturday. 
The Belles will depend on Brink to set the offense for the teams’ hitters like junior Stephanie Bodien and fresh­man Kati Schneider. 
“Our hitters are going to have to step up and hit around their blocks,” Kuschel said. “Albion is a very good defensive team.” 
The Britons (3-7, 0-5 MIAA) turned in a number of gritty performances against tough MIAA opponents in recent weeks, and the Belles will have to turn in a strong performance of their own to take this match as they cling to the fourth spot in the conference. 
Only the top four advance to the conference tournament, with a first-round matchup against defending national champion Calvin likely await­ing the fourth seed. 
“We have to continue to get better, and that starts with Al­bion, and it starts in practice,” Kuschel said. “Albion is a very tough team. They have a couple impact freshmen up front, and they play a very sound defen­sive style of volleyball.” 
Increasingly, Kuschel has re-
see ALBION/page 18 





