
Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame  59, Air Force 33 
Offensive outburst 
Irish offense puts together historic performance as Notre Dame improves to 4-2 with 59-33 victory 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Air Force and Notre Dame combined for 92 points Sat­urday, lighting up the Notre Dame Stadium scoreboard like never before. Both teams combined for 1,125 total of­fensive yards — 565 for Air Force (3-2) and 560 for Notre Dame (4-2) — in an offensive show-and-tell. 
But while the offensive out­put may have been close, the game was never in doubt, as Notre Dame triumphed 59-33. 
“There is a lot of things coming together for us offen­sively with so many different outlets that … we are getting to the point where our guys feel very confident that if they just, during the week, do the little things right, they will be able to execute on Saturday,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. 
The Irish improved their win streak to four games, tied for their longest undefeated streak under Kelly. Kelly said the Irish have not yet “ar­rived,” but they are getting there. 

“We have made progress to the level where we know what it looks like on the other end, but there’s still so many ar­eas to iron out,” Kelly said. “We have got to get more con­sistent on special teams. We have glimmers of really good play. We have got to obviously tighten things down defen­sively with our younger guys, and then just play with more consistency. Four in a row is not enough for this group, you know, but I like the direction that we are going.” that momentum.” early and speed their game quarter when he broke away play, the Irish sported pink 
Some early successful of-By the end of the first quar-up a little bit, it’s big for us,” from the Falcon defense only armbands in honor of breast fensive drives on the field al-ter, sophomore quarterback Rees said. to be tripped up two yards cancer awareness. The cause lowed the Irish to explore new Tommy Rees passed for three Rees completed 23 of his 32 short of the goal line. Fresh-is particularly dear to Notre parts of their roster. The Irish touchdowns to three different passes for a total of 261 yards, man running back George Dame as Kelly’s wife and opened the receivers. with four touchdowns and no Atkinson rushed the ball in Rees’ mother are both survi­scoring just Aside from turnovers. from the two-yard line for a vors of the disease. 
2:47 into the Floyd, ju-“He’s growing as he goes 59-19 lead before the Irish After six straight games game when nior tight here,” Kelly said. “He’s 8-1 as gave up two touchdowns to and four straight wins, the senior wide end Ty-a starter and he continues to Air Force in the final minutes Irish head into a bye week-receiver Mi-ler Eifert grow and develop, and we are of the game. end that Kelly hopes will give chael Floyd “Four in a row is not enough and junior seeing that maturity. [Rees] Hendrix’s performance them enough recuperation jumped for a for this group, you know, wide re-got flushed out of the pocket at the quarterback position time without sacrificing any 34-yard pass but I like the direction ceiver Rob-a couple of times, threw the does not change senior Dayne of their recent success. from sopho-that we are going.” by Toma ball away, made some very Crist’s spot on the depth “I think we need it. We need more quar-found the good decisions in pressure chart, but his playing time a break,” Kelly said. “This terback Tom-end zone situations when something suggested he provides some break comes at a good time 
Brian Kelly 

my Rees. to build wasn’t there. He’s just devel-security in that part of Notre for our guys to get home and 
Irish coach 

“We start-a 21-3 oping, maturing.” Dame’s roster. see their families a little bit. ed off fast. breakaway Rees split time with sopho-“Andrew [Hendrix] does So any momentum that is lost M ic h a el lead from more quarterback Andrew not have all of the grasp of in that is gained by our guys Floyd set the w h i c h Hendrix who completed all the offense, everything that getting a chance to get home.” table for us the Irish four of his pass attempts, he needs. But he certainly is With a week’s break from early on and would nev-adding 33 pass yards of his somebody that can go in the games and a week off from that’s probably why he’s one er look back. The final touch-own to Notre Dame’s overall game and can do some very classes, the Irish continue of the best, if not the best re-down of the quarter was To-294. good things,” Kelly said. “We their season against USC on ceiver in the country,” Irish ma’s first career touchdown Hendrix was also the lead-featured six different forma-Oct. 22 in the first home night coach Brian Kelly said. “The reception. ing rusher on the day at the tion looks for him, and it’s a game in over two decades. touchdown pass where he “A team like Air Force, they quarterback position with 111 package that can continue to went over the top in man-to-are a team that runs they ball yards. He earned 78 of those grow with him.” Contact Molly Sammon at man coverage kind of gave us a lot, and if you can get up with 6:44 left in the fourth Aside from competitive msammon@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Jamoris Slaughter Notre Dame safety By forcing two turnovers in the first half, Slaughter allowed the Irish to jump out to the early lead they would not give up.  8.6 yards per play The Irish averaged nearly nine yards per play throughout the game on their way to a historic offensive effort.  Jamoris Slaughter’s forced fumble in the first quarter Slaughter’s forced fumble allowed Notre Dame to open up a two­possesion lead and forced Air Force to play from behind all game.  “Everyone is picking up their game, and I think the score today [shows] that.” Theo Riddick Notre Dame receiver  

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 10, 2011 
report card 



A­A A A B­B B+ A­B+ 
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees threw for four touchdowns and didn’t turn the ball over, and Andrew Hendrix im­pressed in his debut. Rees did miss a few wide-open receivers. 
running backs: Jonas Gray and Cierre Wood reeled off big runs all day, aver­aging nearly eight yards per carry. Cam McDaniel and George Atkinson finally saw the field as running backs. 
receivers: It was another great effort from the receiving corps, who account­ed for four touchdowns. Theo Riddick finally broke out, and Michael Floyd was his usual unstoppable self. 
offensive line: This offensive line has quietly turned into one of the team’s best units. The line cleared the way for 266 yards on the ground and didn’t al­low a single sack. 
defensive line: It’s good the Irish jumped out to an early lead, because without Ethan Johnson, the line strug­gled to contain the triple option when Air Force could afford to run the ball. 
linebackers: The outside lineback­ers seemed to constantly be missing against the triple option, but Manti Te’o and Darius Fleming picked up the slack nicely. 
defensive backs: Jamoris Slaughter forced two critical early turnovers, and Robert Blanton was excellent against the run. Still, the secondary struggled to keep receivers in front of them. 
special teams: No missed field goals. No turnovers. No terrible punts. It wasn’t spectacular, but considering previous special teams performances, this is nearly cause for celebration. 
coaching: The Irish still struggled to defend the triple option, but the offense was nearly unstoppable all day. Even better, Notre Dame fixed most of its spe­cial teams miscues. 
overall: If the offense keeps play­
ing like this, Notre Dame can beat nearly anyone. The defense is 
3.52 still strong, but the triple-option struggles are cause for worry. 

adding up the numbers 
For the second game in a row, the Irishdid not turn the ball over. Notre Dame 

had15 turnovers inits first three games. 

0 
The Irish averaged 9.2 yards per carryon the ground, helped in large part by 
9.2 
Andrew Hendrix’s 78-yard scamper. 
Notre Dame scored a touchdown on 


each of its six first-half possessionson its way to 42 first-half points. 

6 

21 
The 42 first-half points were the most 
in any half by an Irish team in 21 years, 
dating back to 1990 against Navy. 
Hendrix’s 78-yard touchdown run wasthe second-longest run by a quarter­back in Notre Dame history. 

78 
5 
The Irish offensive line has given up


just five sacks this season, but allowed 
none Saturday. 
Only one word can describe Sat­urday’s second half: Boring. Actually, let’s use three: Really, 
really boring. It was delightful. Less than 11 minutes into the 
first quarter, Notre Dame held a 21-3 lead. At halftime, six Irish possessions had yielded six Irish touchdowns and a 42-16 lead over Air Force. 
One week after a 38-10 romp in West Lafayette, Saturday’s 59-33 vic­tory brought the phrase “with ease” to a new level. The final 30 minutes saw more yawns than points, even though there were 34 points. Douglas Farmer 

Talk about a good problem Editor-in-Chief to have. 
It has been a long time since Notre Dame dominated two consecutive opponents. The closest the Irish came last season was a 28-3 win over Utah one week followed by a 27-3 triumph over Army. In both instances, a fourth quarter comeback remained pos­sible, if not probable. These last two weeks, comebacks bordered on the impossible. 
In three out of this season’s first four games, Irish fans fought off cardiac arrest. Five games last year came down to one possession. These frequent ulcer-inducing weekends have been routine since Lou Holtz left Notre Dame in 1996 
— coincidentally, his final home game was the last time the Irish scored more than 59 points, a 62-0 victory over Rutgers. 
This two-week old habit is much preferred to the handfuls of ant­acids campus has needed for more than a decade. 
In place of screaming to the final play, the student section enjoyed the luxuries of a well-received “wave.” (Though it should be noted, the northwest corner of the Stadium failed in its attempts to begin a double wave.) Perhaps this trend will continue, and an opportunity will be granted in two weeks under the lights against USC. 
In lieu of questioning sopho­more quarterback Tommy Rees, or before him senior Dayne Crist, the postgame press conference was filled with questions leading to praise of sophomore quarterback Andrew Hendrix, who took the first snaps of his collegiate career. 
Rather than wonder why senior receiver Michael Floyd had such trouble getting open, fans won­dered what record he broke this week. Floyd did not break any, however, as he has already broken all, or at least nearly all, of them. Instead, the All-American tried his hand at fielding punts, seem­ingly just for the fun of it. 
Welcome to boring. Isn’t it lovely? 
With 6:22 left in the fourth quarter, Notre Dame held a 40-point lead. Air Force needed five touchdowns and five convert­ed two-point conversions to catch the Irish. It just wasn’t going to happen. 
Instead of worrying about an­other late defensive collapse, Irish fans enjoyed the raw talent dis­played by Hendrix, freshman run­ning back George Atkinson and the entire third-string defense. 
Only the occasional Air Force fourth-down attempt, and subse­quent conversion, reminded fans a competitive game was ongoing, if not all that competitive. 
Boring is beautiful. 
Usually, when students reach the second half, their impend­ing hangovers make loud noises a nuisance. Saturday, the impending hangovers simply made the 248 aerial pushups that much more comical. 
When Officer Tim McCarthy comes on the Stadium address system before the fourth quarter, he normally provides a moment of levity during a stressful game. His “strike out” pun this week may have been the most serious mo­ment of the second half. 
The sight of stands emptying was not a result of storms. It was the sight of disinterest, hunger and, well, boredom. 
Notre Dame fans should take in­terest in the young players taking the field at the end of the game. Hendrix, Atkinson and company will be playing the opening half in the years to come. 
Notre Dame fans should hit the concession stands a bit harder. Or slip some snacks into their pockets before entering the Stadium. 
And Notre Dame fans should get used to boring. It seems it may be here to say. 
At that point, only two words are needed to sum up Saturday: 
Delightfully boring. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






It was a boring game, but boring is good 

Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Riddick finally has breakout game 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Many have criticized junior wide receiver Theo Riddick for underper­formance this season, but as far as he is concerned, winning is all that matters. 
Dropped passes have plagued the junior receiver, and he has been the third option in the offense at times. But sometimes struggle is a part of the game, even if it means a zero-catch performance in a 38-10 blow­out win over Purdue on Oct. 1, Rid-dick said. 
“[Not catching the ball] didn’t re­ally affect me,” Riddick said. “I mean, we won and I came here to win games, and that’s what we are doing, so it feels good. 
“You just have to be patient, espe­cially in that spread offense. As long as you are patient, everyone gets their turn.” 
Riddick’s turn came Saturday, grabbing eight receptions — includ­ing three in the first quarter — for 84 yards and a touchdown. But for Irish coach Brian Kelly, it was just another twist to an already multifaceted of­fense. 
“I just think some guys go with the flow,” Kelly said. “[Theo] defi­nitely needs some mojo —  some good mojo — and it helps when you can run reverses with him, some handoff sweeps, some screen gain. So we are going to continue to have that and feature it in our offense.” 

That “mojo” was on display from the very first drive Saturday when the offense targeted Riddick three consecutive times in the first six plays of the game. Sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees said getting Riddick in­volved early was an integral part of the game plan.
 “He’s such a dynamic player. Get­ting the ball in his hands ¾ good things happen,” Rees said. “There were more options to give him the ball, and all week he and I did a good job of staying on the same page and making sure we connect … He’s a team guy and doesn’t really care as long as we win, but [there was] a lit­tle more emphasis of getting the ball in his hands and letting him go out and make some plays.” 
Kelly echoed the importance of get­ting the ball to Riddick, who mixes electrifying speed with creative dy­namism to create a lethal combina­tion for the spread offense. 
“I’ve been trying to tell you guys that he’s pretty good,” Kelly said. “Just when he gets his chances, he runs so hard. He is a difficult guy when he gets the ball in his hands. And obviously there was a concern on my part to make sure he got some touches and got into a good flow.” 
Riddick exhibited his elusiveness with 32 seconds left in the first half on a 24-yard touchdown reception — his first since the 35-31 loss at Michi­gan on Sept. 10. 
Starting from the Air Force 24-yard line, the New Jersey native outran his defender on a crossing route be­fore catching a pass from Rees just a yard past the line of scrimmage. The converted running back proceeded to juke one defender and broke two more tackles in powerful fashion be­fore diving into the end zone. 
“Sometimes I still feel like a run­ning back when I get out there and have to lower a shoulder fighting for a first down,” Riddick said. “It feels good looking for that contact and I kind of miss it. I just happened to be open and Tommy took full advantage of it. I was just happy to come in to­day and showcase my talent and help this team win.” 
Riddick may want to show off his talents again, but it is more impor­tant to him that the Irish continue to ride this hot streak. 
“We’ve won four straight, and we hope to continue the trend,” Riddick said. “I think we started out a little too slow, and I think it showed. Ev­eryone is picking their game up as you can see, and I think the score to­day showed that.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 




Irish score most since Holtz finale 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s 59 points were the most points scored since Lou Holtz’s last game home game as head coach Nov. 23, 1996, when the Irish defeated Rutgers, 62-0. The teams’ combined total of 92 points was the most in Notre Dame Stadium history. The previous mark was 90 points in a 46-44 triple-overtime loss to Navy in 2007. 
Spreading the wealth 
Seven different Irish players scored touchdowns, including the first career touchdown for junior wide receiver Robby Toma. Toma’s touchdown reception came on a 10­yard pass from sophomore quarter­back Tommy Rees with 4:07 left in the first quarter. 

Ground game beats Air Force 
The Irish rushed for three touch­downs and 266 yards on 29 carries, led by Hendrix’s 111 yards. Notre Dame has rushed for 735 yards in its last three games, the most since rushing for 804 yards in a three-game span against Navy, BYU and Stanford in 2003. Jonas Gray’s two touchdowns gave him four touch­downs in the last three games after being scoreless in the first 25 games of his career. 
Run, Andrew, run 
Sophomore quarterback Andrew Hendrix’s 78-yard run with 8:22 left in the game was the second lon­gest run by an Irish quarterback, one-yard behind Bill Eder’s 79-yard touchdown run against Navy in 1969. 
Holding onto the ball 
Notre Dame has played two con­secutive games without commit­ting a turnover after turning the ball over 15 times in its first three games. The Irish defense has also forced a turnover on their oppo­nents’ first play from scrimmage in the last two games. Against Purdue on Oct. 1, fifth-year senior corner­back Gary Gray intercepted a pass on the first play of the game, while senior safety Jamoris Slaughter forced a fumble against Air Force three minutes into the game Satur­day. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
AFA  3   13  0   17  33  
ND   21   21  7  10  59  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Air Force 0 
Michael Floyd 34-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 12:13 remainingDrive: 8 plays, 81 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Air Force 0 
Tyler Eifert 5-yd pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick) with 8:21 remainingDrive: 9 plays, 59 yards, 3:33 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Air Force 3 
Parker Herrington 34-yd field goal with 5:48
remainingDrive: 8 plays, 64 yards, 2:33 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Air Force 3 
Robby Toma 10-yd pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick) with 4:07 remainingDrive: 4 plays, 51 yards, 1:41 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Air Force 9 
Tim Jefferson 3-yd rush (Parker Harrington kick blocked by Darius Fleming) with 13:41 remainingDrive: 14 plays, 80 yards, 5:26 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Air Force 9 
Jonas Gray 5-yd rush (David Ruffer kick) with 11:39remainingDrive: 5 plays, 38 yards, 2:02 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Air Force 9 
Cierre Wood 8-yd rush (David Ruffer kick) with 6:10remainingDrive: 6 plays, 44 yards, 2:27 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Air Force 16 
Ty MacArthur 6-yd pass from Tim Jefferson (ParkerHerrington kick) with 1:41 remainingDrive: 12 plays, 80 yards, 4:29 elapsed 
Notre Dame 42, Air Force 16 
Theo Riddick 24-yd pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick) with 0:32 remainingDrive: 6 plays, 74 yards, 1:09 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 49, Air Force 16 
Jonas Gray 6-yd rush (David Ruffer kick) with 1:54 remainingDrive: 6 plays, 64 yards, 1:54 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 49, Air Force 19 

Parker Herrington 32-yd field goal with 14:56
remainingDrive: 18 plays, 54 yards, 6:53 elapsed 
Notre Dame 52, Air Force 19 

David Ruffer 39-yd field goal with 10:12 remaining
Drive: 9 plays, 56 yards, 4:44 elapsed 
Notre Dame 59, Air Force 19 
George Atkinson 1-yd run (Mike Grieco kick) with
6:22remainingDrive: 4 plays, 80 yards, 2:00 elapsed 
Notre Dame 59, Air Force 27 
Drew Coleman 36-yd pass from Connor Dietz (An­thony Lacoste rush) with 4:32 remainingDrive: 4 plays, 74 yards, 1:50 elapsed 
Notre Dame 59, Air Force 33 
Jonathan Lee 8-yd rush (Broam Hart rush failed)with 0:33 remainingDrive: 7 plays, 67 yards, 1:41 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 10, 2011 


High-flying offense 
On a sunny October Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish offense exploded in historic fashion, scoring 59 points in its highest-scoring performance since 1996. Notre Dame tallied 21 points in the first quarter and added another 21 in the second quarter, racking up a 42-16 halftime lead. Notre Dame would later extend its advantage to 59-19 before giving up late touchdowns with the outcome a foregone conclusion. With the win, the Irish improve to 4-2 after dropping their first two games. Notre Dame now has a bye week before hosting USC in the first home night game in over two decades. 
MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 



GRANT TOBIN/The Observer MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: linebacker Darius Fleming fights past an Air Force defender; quarterback Tommy Rees hands off to junior running back Cierre Wood; junior tight end Tyler Eifert fights for yardage; Wood scores a touchdown; sophomore quarterback Andrew Hendrix runs from an Air Force defender during his 78-yard rush. 


