the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Jenkins receives 2011 Diversity Award 
Observer Staff Report 
According to a University press release, University presi­dent Fr. John Jenkins was one of 14 individuals to receive a 2011 Champion of Diversity award from Indiana Minority Business Magazine (IMBM). Jenkins was recognized by the magazine at a Jan. 14 ceremony in Indianapolis. 
The magazine honored the award recipients as “leaders in their respective fields, not only because they excel at what they do, but also because they are inclusive,” according to 

Shannon Williams, president University com mittees to enact ty of color and women faculty,  time faculty and staff find poten­ 
and general manager of IMBM. initiatives desig ned to enhance respectively. Their posts involve  tial employment opportunities in  
“This year’s esteemed group support for a div erse faculty. close coordination with deans,  the area or at Notre Dame.  
of awardees These initiati ves were based department chairs and others in  “The intellectual interchange  
has promoted upon reports p repared by the faculty recruitment, hiring,  that is essential to a university  
diversity with University C ommittee on retention, mentoring and devel­ requires, and is enriched by, the  
their hiring Cultural Dive rsity and the opment.  presence and voices of diverse  
p r a c t i c e s , University C ommittee on The award also honored the  scholars and students,” Jenkins  
outreach pro-Women Faculty  and Students. creation of the Moreau  said last year. “Beyond the ben­ 
grams or Jenkins was rec ognized for the Academic Diversity Postdoctoral  efits diversity brings to all uni- 
have individ­appointments  of Don Pope-Fellowship Program, which is a  versities, we hold this commit­ 
ually tran-Davis, vice pres ident, associate two-year research, teaching and  ment also because Notre Dame  
s c e n d e d provost and prracial or Jenkins chology, and  ofessor of psy­mentoring initiative for scholars Susan Ohmer, studying or representing diverse  is a Catholic university.” Jenkins was elected president- 
gender bar-William T. an d Helen Kuhn groups. Another initiative recog­ elect of the University by the  
riers,” she said. Carey Associat e Professor of nized by the magazine was the  Board of Trustees on April 30,  
Jenkins, in his sixth year as Modern Comm unication and Dual Career Assistance  2004, and became the  
University president, acted upon assistant provo st, to oversight Program, which assists the  University’s 17th president on  
the recommendations of two roles for efforts  related to facul­spouses of recently hired full- July 1, 2005.  



Students volunteer through Circle K 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
With 20 different volunteer opportunities, some students might not be able to decide how to get involved in Circle K, Notre Dame’s largest student-run service organization. Senior Annette Esquibel could easily recommend a project. 
“I’ve done every project we do,” Esquibel said. “I love how many opportunities you have to do service.” 
Circle K started the second semester with a fun-filled meet­ing Sunday night that included free candy and T-shirt give­aways. The club’s 10 officers also described the 20 organiza­tions that Circle K works with. The projects range from taking care of dogs with the Humane Society to reading with children in the South Bend school sys­tem. 
“My favorite is probably the 
see CIRCLE/page 3 



Dorms win Hall of the Fall award 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Morrissey Manor and the Wild Women of Walsh Hall stood out during the fall semester and became Halls of the Fall, an award which takes into account various dorm activities put on during the first semester. 
“Hall of the Fall is an annu­al award given by the Hall President’s Council to a male and female dorm who we felt best exhibited the spirit and unity of a Notre Dame dorm during the first semester,” junior Mike Oliver, co-chair of the Hall President’s Council, said. 
The Hall President’s Council is a group comprised of com-
see FALL/page 4 



By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
On Saturday, members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communities reached their fundraising goals during a 24­hour spin-a-thon at Knollwood Country Club to provide preven­tative care for women in need. 
Greg Crawford, dean of the College of Science, and his wife, Renate, were in attendance, along with members of the Notre Dame women’s basket­ball team and baseball team and the Knollwood Country 


Teams bike in spin-a-thon for charity 
Club. 
The fundraising goal of the event was $24,000, according to Rhonda Bremer, athletic director of Knollwood. Participants reached the goal at 8 a.m. Saturday. 
While the final donation total was not known, Bremer said she knows the event surpassed their goal by at least $1,000. There were 20 bikes to fill for the event and each rider was asked to find a $50 pledge for the hour they were riding. 
“We had 480 hours on the board to fill with riders,” Bremer said. “We were able to fill more than 450 by Saturday morning.” 
Organizers will donate the money raised to the St. Joseph Regional Medical Center Foundation, where it will be used to provide mammograms to women who would otherwise not be able to afford them, Crawford said. 
The College of Science, Notre Dame athletics and Knollwood collaborated to create the event, he said. 
see SPIN/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND students win free breakfasts for a year page 3  Student film festival page 10  Men’s basketball page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, January 24, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
Who do you want to win the What is your favorite thing to 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Super Bowl? : I am rooting do in South Bend? : There isn’t 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
against the Jets because I am a much to do in South Bend but 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

Matt Gamber Giants fan. I want the Packers to the South Bend Silver Hawks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER win because I like Aaron Rogers. games! 


Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner Who is your least favorite NFL What do you think of Jersey ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers player? : Tony Romo because I Shore? : It is the greatest TV NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal hate the Cowboys more than any show ever created because the VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
team in the league. characters are intellectually 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
superior than anyone else. I

SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley What was your favorite part always abide by GTL. PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs about winter break? : My GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
favorite part was going to New What is your favorite girls 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 

York before Christmas with my dorm? : B.P. because they have 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer Jon Vamadeva 
ND friends in Rockefeller Center. the most athletically fit girls. 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
junior


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
St. Ed’s 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
(574) 631-6927 


FAX Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 




ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse The God Quad Jesus statue embraces the cold, and an icicle, Sunday with the advertisements based on content. 
help of an anonymous student. Students endured temperatures that fell below 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of  zero over the weekend.  
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor,  
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors.  
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views  
of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.  OFFBEAT  
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free  
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.  Bar owner roasts bear to show team spirit ST. PAUL, Minn. — A  to customers, but the state health department rejected the plan because the meat  17-year-old and a 16-year­old. The Kansas City Star  
Questions regarding Observer policies should be  sports  bar  owner  in  is unprocessed. Instead,  reported that police found  
directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber  Minnesota is showing his  customers can take photos  the teens stuck in a snow- 
support for the Green Bay  with the roasting bear.  drift early Thursday morn- 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION  Packers in this weekend’s  After the game, the meat  ing.  
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during  game against the Chicago  will go to his cousin's party  The victims’ credit cards  
exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.  Bears in a very literal way  in Somerset, Wis.  were  among  the  items  
The Observer is published at:  POSTMASTER  — by roasting a bear.  found in their vehicle.  
024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame  Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779  Blake Montpetit, the co-owner of Tiffany Sports  Teens rob motorists stuck in snow  Court documents say the 17-year-old denied partici­ 
and additional mailing offices.  024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779  Lounge in St. Paul, says he  KANSAS  CITY,  Mo.  –  pating in the robberies and  
plans to cook a 180-pound  Three teens accused of  told police that all he did  
black bear in a pig-roaster  robbing motorists stuck in  was drive.  
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are  over hickory and charcoal  the snow have been caught  The documents say Page  
reserved.  on  Sunday. He says his  after — you guessed it —  admitted being present,  
TODAY’S STAFF  cousin shot it in northern Wisconsin during bear  they got stuck in the snow themselves.  but he blamed the holdups on the 16-year-old. The  
News Amanda Gray Nicole Toczauer Caitlin Housley  Sports Eric Prister Kelsey Manning Andrew Gastelum  hunting season, which runs in September and October, and then froze it. Montpetit says he planned to serve the meat  Prosecutors announced robbery and armed crimi­nal action charges Friday against 18-year-old Darion O. Page of Kansas City, a  Star says that teen declined to make a state­ment. Information compiled from the Associated Press.  
Graphics  Scene  
Melissa Kaduck  Alex Kilpatrick  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Suzanna Pratt  Ren Brauweiler  



IN BRIEF 
Primatologist Frans de Waal will give a lecture, “Morality Before Religion: Empathy, Reciprocity, and Fairness in Our Fellow Primates” today at 4 p.m. in McKenna Hall Auditorium. The cost is free and a reception will follow. 
The 3rd Annual Blessed Basil Moreau Lecture will take place tonight at 7:30 p.m. Cyril O’Regan will present his lecture, “John Henry Newman: The Validity of Holiness in the Modern World” in Geddes Hall of the Center for Social Concerns. The event is open to the pub­lic. 
Free body composition and blood pressure tests will be given tomorrow from 4:30 to 
5:30 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Wellness Room. Registration is avaliable through RecRegister. 
The documentary, “God’s Doorkeeper: Saint Andre Bessette, C.S.C.” will be shown tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in Geddes Hall of the Center for Social Concerns as part of Holy Cross Week. The event is open to the public. 
Professor Gang Cao of the University of Kentucky will give the colloquium, “Spin-Orbit Interaction Rediscovered in Transition Metal Oxides” Wednesday at 4 p.m. The lec­ture will take place in room 118 Nieuwland Science. 

A photo exhibit, “The Spirit of Holy Cross: Celebrating a Saint,” will be shown at 5:30 
p.m. Wednesday in the Main Builiding Rotunda. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday thursday friday 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

LOW 16 LOW 15 LOW 18 LOW 18 LOW 19 LOW 24 


Monday, January 24, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






Bagels entice early risers 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Braving the bitter cold and early wake up call, several Notre Dame students joined local resi­dents in waiting in line at the opening of an Einstein Bros. Bagels location in South Bend. For those who braved the ele­ments, the wait was worth it, as they walked away with a year’s worth of free food. 
Senior Jessica Spiewak said though the bagel franchise advertised the first 100 people in line would win free breakfast for the year, Einstein Bros. Bagels is not limiting the promotion just to the first meal of the day. 
“[They gave us] a booklet of coupons and you rip off each one when you go. There are 52, so you can use one a week for a year or whenever you want,” she said. “They only work at this location.” 
Senior Nate Anderson said he got to the store with friends early to beat the crowds. 
“We didn’t go to bed,” he said. “We got there at 2:30 to scope it out, and we got in line at 4:15.” 
Anderson said the novelty of waiting outside combined with the pull of free food convinced him and his friends to partici­pate in the promotion. 
“Me and my friends thought it would be fun to wait in the cold,” he said. “Free breakfast sandwiches sounded good, so we thought we would give it a shot.” 
Spiewak, whose group of friends led the line, said the group tried to have some fun during the cold wait. 

“We were the first five in line. The guys smoked cigars, so it was fun,” she said. “It was pretty cold, but they brought out free coffee which helped.” 
Senior Vince Montalbano, who waited in line with Spiewak’s group, said standing in the cold with such a large group of peo­ple was in itself a fun experi­ence. 
“I wasn’t sure if I wanted to do it, but we made friends with the people in line next to us, and a couple of local television stations stopped by,” he said. 
Anderson said he and his friends tried to do anything fun to keep their minds off the freez­ing temperature, including lead­ing chants and singing popular songs. 
“We substituted bagel or breakfast sandwich into the lyrics. [We did] anything to take [our] minds off the fact it was below zero.” 
Spiewak said the event seemed to draw a wide array of customers. 
“I heard at one point there were 115 people in line,” she said. “There was a good mix of Notre Dame kids, high schoolers and local adults.” 
Spiewak also said the novelty of the promotion has drawn her back to the store several times. 
“We waited in line from 4:15 until 6:30 when it opened, so the first thing we did was eat break­fast,” she said. “We went to sleep right after. It is super close to where I live, and I didn’t feel like making anything and I wanted a free sandwich, so I went back.” 
Anderson said while the store may not have a strong customer base yet, he thinks the promo­tion might spark some long-term interest in the bagel store amongst Notre Dame students. 
“In terms of awareness, I think it has done all right. I first heard about it at midnight that night. One hundred people now have this promotion, so word of mouth will spread throughout the year,” he said. “I talked to the manager briefly, and it seems like they do this [promo­tion] with all their stores.” 
Montalbano also said he thought the store would prove popular with students. He said he has noticed the new location drawing some interest from the student body. 
“I think people hear about something like that and they want to know more. I’ve seen kids using the free Internet there like in Starbuck’s,” Montalbano. “There is a lot of space.” 
Spiewak said despite the bitter cold and the long wait early in the morning, the experience was well worth the effort. 
“The big part is it is so close, so it is useful. Anything free is great, and worth it to me,” she said. “We waited in line for two hours and got 200 dollars worth of food, so when you break it down we made 100 dollars an hour. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
joined Circle K last year. Choi said she initially became inter-



Circle 
ested in Circle K when she heard of the Center for the Homeless 
continued from page 1 
project, but now her favorite Juvenile Justice Center,” activity is visiting St. Mary’s Esquibel said. “You tutor teens Convent. in the correctional facility. It’s “You visit and talk with nuns just good to see them trying to and it’s a lot of fun,” Choi said. start over.” “They love to hear what stories 
The club, which meets Sunday you have and they love to tell nights in the Notre Dame Room you stories too.” of LaFortune, currently has 96 Many students attended the registered members. President Circle K meeting for the first Mathew Dominguez said the time, hoping to find a project 
club’s impres­ they enjoy that  
sive roster is  fits  their  
probably due to the diversi­ty of the proj­ “I think [Circle K] is popular because of the  schedule. Sopho mor e E l i z a b e t h  
ects. “I think it’s p o p u l a r  variety of projects that we offer.””  Maurath said she is looking forward to get- 
because of the  ting involved in  
variety of projects that  Mathew Dominguez Circle K President  the club. “I  need  

we offer,” Dominguez said. “We try to make sure there’s a type of project for every type of person.” 
Circle K is a branch of Kiwanis, a global volunteer organization. Dominguez and Esquibel both joined Circle K because of their previous involvement with Key Club, the high school branch of Kiwanis. 
Dominguez, who has been involved with Circle K since his freshman year, said his favorite project is Nursing Home Bingo. 
“It’s really fun to work with the elderly and talk with them while they’re playing,” Dominguez said. “They’re always very interested in how your life is.” 
Junior Jessica Choi’s preferred project has changed since she another activi­
ty and I 
thought volun­
teering would be a good way to involve myself,” Maurath said. “It’s a good use of my time.” 
Maurath hopes to tutor chil­dren in elementary school through the program. On the other hand, sophomore Alexis Casaceli is looking forward to working with the elderly at Queen of Peace, a section of St. Mary’s Convent for nuns with Alzheimer’s. 
“It’s really touching to interact with the nuns there,” Casaceli said. “I was only able to go for the first half of last semester, but it was always my favorite activi­ty of the week.” 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, January 24, 2011 



College celebrates heritage with Week 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
This week, student groups are sponsoring Heritage Week, and students are encouraged to rediscover the campus’s histo­ry. 
The theme of the week is “The Avenue Always Leads You Home.” According to Student Activities Board (SAB) chief of staff Kelly Zenere, the Avenue is a universal symbol of Saint Mary’s. It sends students on new journeys, and welcomes them home, she said. 
The groups sponsoring the weeklong celebration include Campus Ministry, Resident Hall Association, SAB, Student Diversity Board and Student Government Association. 
Cassandra Palmer, SAB’s mis­sion commissioner, said this week is all about remembering the history of Saint Mary’s. Palmer said the college stemmed from the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and it is impor­tant to keep them in mind when students think of Saint Mary’s heritage. 
“[The Saint Mary’s students] are the ones who keep our her­itage alive,” Palmer said. 
Zenere said Heritage Week is held so the students don’t for­get where they come from. 
For these reasons, each day’s events are centered on educat­ing the students about Saint Mary’s rich history. 
On Monday the college archives will be on display in the Student Center. According to Palmer, there will be 24 large poster frames of photos from past to present, including a photo of the class of 1907. 
There will be a long sleeve T-shirt give-away on Monday in the Student Center, and archivist John Kovach will give a talk in the lounge from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. According to Zenere, Kovach will be hosting a ques­tions and answers session. 
“[Bring] your ghost story questions,” she said. 
The Reidenger House will be open for tours and tea from 2 
p.m. until 4 p.m. on Tuesday. Space is limited, so students must sign up for times in the Student Center. 
On Wednesday, Sister Mary Louise “ML” Gude will be host­ing three tours of the convent, and providing information on the history of the Sisters and the College, according to the schedule. 
Thursday, students are invit­ed to share a meal with the nuns at the Heritage Dinner at 
6:30 in Stapleton Lounge. At the dinner students are encouraged to ask questions, and listen to the stories of the Sisters themselves, Zenere said. 
Heritage Week will wind down with a S’more Meet and Greet with the Nuns in the Lillie O’Grady Room at 2 p.m. Friday. 
Zenere said this event is spe­cial because they are taking the event to the nuns. Since so many nuns are unable to leave the convent due to health issues, SAB thought it was important to move an event to a location the nuns could attend. 
“After all, they are the reason for the week,” Zenere said. 
Zenere and Palmer could not stress enough the importance of the week. 
“We are trying to, in a sense, abridge the ignorance of our heritage,” Zenere said. “We have such a rich history that we should be aware of.” 
“Saint Mary’s prides itself in forming strong, independent women … without these past strong, independent women, we wouldn’t be where we are now,” Palmer said. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chous101@stmarys.edu 



U.S. legislators seek to streamline nominations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Senior sen­ators are negotiating to reduce the 1,400 presidential appoint­ments subject to time-consum­ing Senate confirmation, hoping to streamline a system that has frustrated administrations of both parties, according to offi­cials familiar with the discus­sions. 
These officials said that 100 posts or more could be dropped from the list if discussions between Sens. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., result in an agreement that gains the support of the rank and file in both parties. Judicial appointments would not be affected, nor would the most senior positions at Cabinet department or independent agencies. 
In addition, the two men have discussed curtailing the right enjoyed by individual senators to block action on a nomination or legislation anonymously for up to five days. This rule is widely flouted. 
The talks are occurring against a backdrop of calls from some Democrats for far more sweeping changes in the Senate’s filibuster rules, which allow the minority party — Republicans now — to slow or defeat nominations and legisla­tion without allowing a yes-or­no vote. 
Given a lack of support among Republicans and past opposition from some Democrats, these broader pro­posals appear to have little or no chance of winning the two-thirds majority the Senate’s rules say are generally required to take effect. Advocates of the revisions argue that a simple majority vote is sufficient to put them in place at the beginning of a new Congress, as they want to do. But it is not clear they can command that much sup­port in an institution where Democrats and aligned inde­pendents control 53 seats, to 47 for the Republicans. 
The Senate returns to work Tuesday for the first time in two weeks; the proposed rules changes are among the first orders of business. 

Fall 
continued from page 1 
missioners, representatives and an elected Vice President and President of each respective dorm. 
“We look at the academic, social, service oriented, litur­gical, multicultural and ath­letic events of each dorm throughout the first semes­ter,” Oliver said. “Then we decide which male and female dorm best accom ­plished all of these elements, and most importantly, united as one dorm and displayed unparalleled hall pride.” 
Being named Hall of the Fall was a definite step in the right direction for Morrissey, said junior and Morrissey Hall president Oliver Chmell. 
“We tried to participate in every event and encouraged 


Spin 
continued from page 1 
“The last few years the women’s basketball team has worked with the science department on the Pink Zone game,” Crawford said. “We decided to combine our efforts to raise more money.” 
The Crawfords and fitness instructor Kellie Sade rode for the full 24 hours. 
“[I’m] excited to work together to raise money and raise breast cancer aware­ness,” Sade said. 
Renate Crawford said she felt the event was important due to the magnitude of breast cancer. 
“We wanted to make this as big of an event as possible,” she said. “Everyone is some­how affected by breast cancer. 
as much participation as pos­sible from members of our dorm,” Chmell said. “Being named Hall of the Fall means that we as a dorm are doing the job right and having fun while at it.” 
Oliver said Morrissey’s president brought a strong sense of unity to the dorm. 
“Morrissey was given this honor primarily because they did a fantastic job at making sure they had events in every area,” he said. 
Senior and Walsh Hall president Julie Zorb said Walsh residents had “sensa­tional” attendance and par­ticipation in the fall semester events. 
“Our two signature events, Football 101 and the Mr. ND competition, were a great success,” she said. “This school year has been a time of transition for Walsh, as a new rector was brought in the dorm. With all of the potential roadblocks we could have had this year, it is great to see Walsh being offi­cially recognized.” 
Oliver said Walsh’s dorm pride was “unmatched.” 
“It seemed like all of the members of Walsh were proud to be a part of their dorm,” he said. “Their events last semester were excellent and well-attended.” 
Hall of the Fall is a step­ping stone to the annual naming of the men’s and women’s Hall of the Year in April, the most prestigious award given to a dorm. 
“Dorms like to know where they stand at the halfway point,” Oliver said. “It will be exciting to see what kind of events dorms put on this semester.” 

Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
It’s important that we all work Crawford came to them with together to make an impact.” the idea and then Knollwood 
The Kelly Cares Foundation, jumped on board. the brainchild of head football Local teacher Sarah coach Brian Kelly and his wife Pennington got involved in the 
Paqui,  also  event through  
had a team at  her boyfriend,  
the event. “The Kelly C a r e s  “[I’m] excited to work together to raise money  who works for the Notre Dame baseball team.  
F o u n d a t i o n  and raise breast  She  rode  for  
asked us to fill spots for  cancer awareness.”  two hours because it was  
the  full  24  a  good  cause  
hours,” said Lisa Klunder,  Kelly Sade Fitness Instructor  and said it is nice to do  
wife of Chad  s o m e t h i n g  
Klunder, the  active  on  a  
a s s o c i a t e  Saturday morn- 
director  of  ing.  

Football Operations. “This is a “I’m a teacher locally and really great way to support doing community service is a Kelly Cares and help support a good way to set an example larger cause.” for my kids,” she said. 
Stephanie Menio, the direc­tor of operations for the Contact Anna Boarini at Women’s basketball team, said aboari01@stmarys.edu 


Monday, January 24, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 24, 2011 






New competitors challenge Google 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Google is richer than ever, but it’s not as cool as it once was. 
Facebook boasts 500 million members who share 30 billion links, notes and photos each month — data that Google’s search engine can’t completely index. It’s so influential that 26-year-old founder Mark Zuckerberg was just named Time’s person of the year, and a movie about the company’s early days is a contender for best picture at the Oscars. 
Twitter, Groupon and Foursquare, all hard-charging and potentially game-changing services, are additional thorns in Google’s side, raising wor­ries that the online search leader may be losing the com­petitive edge that turned it into the Internet’s most powerful company. 
Making Google hip and nim­ble again will be the priority as Larry Page, one of the two Stanford University students who founded the company in a garage in 1998, prepares to reclaim the CEO job in a shake-up that surprised Silicon Valley. 
He last held it a decade ago, when Google Inc. had less than $100 million in annual revenue and fewer than 300 employees. Google’s size today — 24,400 employees and annual revenue of $29 billion — has slowed its decision-making and innova­tion in the past few years. 
About 200 of Facebook’s 2,000 employees defected from Google, and the migration appears to be about more than just the allure of getting stock options in a hot company before it goes public. Some engineers seem to be drawn by the work at a smaller compa­ny, which offers an opportunity to reshape culture with less corporate bureaucracy and more creative freedom. 
“Facebook has become the cool kid on the block, and now Google wants to prove it can still be cool, too,” says Danny Sullivan, who follows both companies closely as editor-in­chief of Search Engine Land. 
It’s not an impossible feat, says Michael Cusumano, an MIT professor of management. 
As an example, he cites IBM, which seemed on its way to becoming a tech dinosaur in the early 1990s before Louis Gerstner arrived as CEO and streamlined the company. 
To get back to its roots, Google concluded it needed to rearrange the hierarchy in place since technology veteran Eric Schmidt was brought in as CEO in 2001. It was an egali­tarian arrangement, with Schmidt never having the final say on important matters. Page and Google’s other founder, Sergey Brin, always weighed in, too. In some cases, such as Google’s decision to move its search engine out of mainland China last year, the founders overruled Schmidt’s wishes. 
In April, Schmidt will become executive chairman and relin­quish the CEO duties to Page, now 37 and graying. While Schmidt travels the world meeting with business part­ners, government officials and potential takeover targets, Page says he will be making most of the big decisions as he tries to rekindle “the soul and passion of a startup.” Brin will concentrate on developing new products. 
He’s worth $15 billion, but Page remains something of a rebel who has always had a disdain for corporate protocol. 
“Larry and Sergey both hate being organized. They don’t want to be locked into meet­ings,” says Ken Auletta, who got to know both of them while writing his book, “Googled: The End of the World as We Know It.” 
While a free-wheeling atti­tude typically works well at small companies, it could cause problems in a company as large as Google, says Steve Booth, a business professor at the University of Chicago. 
“The risk is that if you take away the process, that in some sense you go back to a kind of chaos,” Kaplan said. 
Schmidt, 55, has no doubt Page is ready for the chal­lenges ahead. 
“Larry has been with me in every major decision in the past decade,” Schmidt said in an interview Thursday. “It’s not like he has been sitting around doing nothing.” 


Digital diplomacy gains attention 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The State Department is tightening its embrace of Twitter and other social media as crises grip the Middle East and Haiti, with officials finding new voice, cheek and influence in the era of digital diplomacy. 
Even as it struggles to con­tain damage caused by WikiLeaks’ release of classified internal documents, the department is reaching out across the Internet. It’s bypass­ing traditional news outlets to connect directly and in real time with overseas audiences in the throes of unrest and upheaval. 
American diplomacy isn’t a newcomer to Facebook, YouTube, Flickr or Twitter, but it has stepped up online efforts as those networks play a grow­ing role in events around the world. 
In recent days, department spokesman P.J. Crowley has tweeted to knock down rumors, amplify U.S. policy positions, appeal for calm and urge reforms in Haiti, Tunisia and Lebanon. 
Well before he addressed the State Department press corps on the return to Haiti of former dictator Jean-Claude “Baby Doc” Duvalier and the possible return of ousted President Jean-Betrand Aristide, Crowley took to Twitter to pronounce the U.S. position 
“We are surprised by the tim­ing of Duvalier’s visit to Haiti,” he wrote last Monday, a federal holiday in the U.S. “It adds unpredictability at an uncer­tain time in Haiti’s election process.” 
Late Thursday night, Crowley commented on Aristide. “We do not doubt President Aristide’s desire to help the people of Haiti. But today Haiti needs to focus on its future, not its past.” 
He has posted sharp respons­es to WikiLeaks and promoted the visit of Chinese President Hu Jintao to Chicago by com­paring it Sunday’s NFC champi­onship playoff game between Chicago and Green Bay. “Chicago copes with two blitzes: today the visit of the President of China, Hu Jintao, and then Sunday the Green Bay Packers,” he tweeted on Friday. 
“I’ve always tried to infuse humor into my messaging and Twitter is perfect for one-liners that get noticed and then spread exponentially,” he told The Associated Press. “Finding ways to put Hu Jintao and (Green Bay quarterback) Aaron Rodgers in the same sentence is a way of bridging the tradi­tional divide between what is domestic and international.” 
On Saturday alone, Crowley informed his Twitter followers that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton had called Tunisian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghannouchi to urge speedy political and eco­nomic reforms as protests con­tinued in the wake of a popular uprising that toppled the coun­try’s longtime autocratic presi­dent. 
He dismissed as “pure legal fantasy” the claim by WikiLeak’s founder Julian Assange’s lawyer that Assange might end up in the prison at Guantanamo Bay. “Save it for the movie,” Crowley said. 
He also chided the authori­tarian government of Belarus for its crackdown on opposition leaders. 
Crowley’s reach — he has 9,717 followers — may not rival that of celebrities, sport stars or even other government officials. But those tracking his pronouncements include virtu­ally all the journalists, pundits and analysts who deal with 
U.S. foreign policy, as well as ordinary citizens and foreign ministers of other countries. 
The audience for his micro-blog posts also expands expo­nentially when his followers pass along his messages to their followers, particularly when those messages deal with pressing issues of the day. 
“The number of retweets he gets relative to the size of his following is very impressive and shows that he has near-mastered the medium,” said Alec Ross, Clinton’s senior adviser for innovation and State Department “uber-Tweeter,” who has nearly 320,000 Twitter followers. “It connects him to an audience of influencers in 100-plus coun­tries.” 
“What we are looking for is retweets, which tells us what we are saying is getting noticed and passed along to others,” Crowley told the AP. “That means we are expanding our reach.” 
Crowley said he made a New Year’s resolution to become more active on Twitter, partly because of the reaction to somewhat irreverent Tweets he posted in 2010 that tweaked North Korea and Iran. 
In one, he urged Americans to heed the department’s warn­ing not to travel to North Korea after both Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton went to the North’s capital to win the release of U.S. detainees. Crowley noted that the U.S. had only a limited number of former presidents available for such missions. 


Monday, January 24, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Dog walkers angry over leash law proposal 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — A new federal proposal to tighten leash rules on parkland in and around San Francisco has many dog owners barking mad. 
The 2,400 -page plan released earlier this month by the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, the coun­try’s largest urban national park, would mandate leashes in open spaces where dogs currently roam untethered. Some popular dog-walking areas would be closed to canines entirely, partly to protect wildlife and native plants. 
The proposed rules cover about 14,000 acres of the 75,000-acre GGNRA, which includes portions of San Francisco, San Mateo and Marin counties and is the only national park in the country to allow dogs off-leash. 
Since it was published Jan. 14, the document has trig­gered a flurry of blogging, newspaper columns and calls to action among the dog ­


owner community. Many expressed concern that recre­ation officials are trying to push dogs out of the 39-year­old park entirely. 
“I have a feeling they don’t want us in there at all,” said Suzanne Valente, who takes her dog to Ocean Beach, one of the few remaining off-leash areas. Under the proposal, one section of Ocean Beach would still allow unleashed dogs, but another would become a dog-free zone. 
Dogs also would be banned from parts of San Francisco’s Crissy Field and Fort Funston and all of Marin County’s Muir Beach — sites that have traditionally been favored destinations for dog owners. 
Park management officials strenuously deny any sinister motive behind the proposal. 
“This is not a plan to ban dogs in the GGNRA,” said park spokesman Howard Levitt. “Once enacted, this is a 20-year plan to try to bal­ance the needs of a huge vari­ety of users while also pro­tecting natural resources.” 
The park receives an esti­mated 16 million visitors each year and has never had for­mal guidelines for managing dogs, Levitt said. Most of the current rules stem from a parkwide pet policy devel­oped in 1979 — a set of rec­ommendations that was never brought in line with federal regulations governing dog-walking in national parks. 
“If you ask 100 people in this park, not one of them could tell you what the rules are on dogs,” Levitt said. 
The plan has received a warm welcome from nature lovers who have long com­plained that frolicking dogs pose a threat to the 36 rare and endangered plants and animal species that inhabit the park. 
One such animal is the Western snowy plover, a rare shorebird that is considered threatened and protected by the U.S. Endangered Species Act. In 2006, the GGNRA enforced an emergency rule to protect the birds, which currently number less than 
100. It requires dogs to be kept on leash at Ocean Beach and Crissy Field for 10 months every year from July through May. 
Beyond frightening and sometimes killing wildlife, dogs affect how humans experience the park, said Mike Lynes, the conservation director for Golden Gate Audubon Society. The Berkeley nonprofit has been one of the most vocal advo­cates for environmental preservation in the park. 
Lynes said many people, including his wife, feel uncomfortable around dogs and avoid areas of the park with a large canine presence. 
But dog owners say envi­ronmental preservation and responsible dog-walking are not mutually exclusive. 
“We can all get along and find ways to coexist,” said Sally Stephens, chair of San Francisco Dog Owners Group, a nonprofit with about 900 paying members. 
Stephens said the park was never meant to be a “pristine wilderness,” but instead was created as a multi-use natu­ral resource for a dense urban population. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, January 24, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Groupon 

There is a popular saying that goes “Secrets, secrets are no fun if you don’t tell everyone.” I usually bring this phrase up when my friends are trying to withhold information from me, but I feel it is time that I reveal a secret of my own. No, it isn’t that I am a super­hero. My secret is I am a kleptoma­niac. 
For those of you unenlightened minds out there, 


Sam Stryker 

a kleptomaniac is obsessed with stealing things. Assistant Before you hide News Editor your iPods and cell phones, let me make something clear: kleptomani­acs don’t steal things for the monetary compensation that may be involved. In fact, I don’t think I have ever broken the law in my thievery. Plain and sim­ple, I steal for the thrill. 
Now I don’t just get the five-finger discount whenever I feel like it. In fact, if I had to label myself as a thief, I would say I am a modern day Robin Hood, stealing from the rich, and giv­ing to the poor (myself). For instance, I work as a lifeguard/child-wrangler at a local country club over the summer. At the pool, I am a lost and found con­noisseur, scouring the pile of swim­suits, towels, shirts, and shoes for the perfect crime. I haven’t had to buy a pair of goggles in five years thanks to my thievery, and I like to say I do my best Christmas shopping at the lost and found. 
Where did I pick up my thieving ways? Let’s just say it runs in the fami­ly. While my mother may be no cat burglar, she has assisted me in my kleptomania. Just two years ago, when I visited Duke University, she stole a water bottle with me from an alumni event that was running at the time. The water bottles may have been given away for free, but it’s the thought that counts. My mother and I are cunning artists of thievery, and there is no getting around it. 
Where does that leave me today? More and more my mother and I fre­quently are utilizing new technological methods to expand our thievery. No place is this more evident than the popular deal of the day website, Groupon. For those of you not lucky enough for Groupon to stroll into your life, the website sells discounts to local business. My mother was first drawn to the website over Christmas break, like a shark is drawn to a drop of blood from a hundred miles away. Soon enough she introduced me to the website, and I — klepto that I am — I was hooked right away. For five bucks, I got a 35-dollar gift certificate to a local burger restaurant. Even for someone like me, it was a total steal. 
Groupon has made it so much easier for my thieving ways. Every morning, when I wake up I check the deal of the day for Connecticut. Then I check it for New York City. Then Chicago and finally, for South Bend. My thieving knows no borders. 
So there you have it — the big secret is out. Whether I am taking a towel or nice pair of flip flops discarded by a child after a day at the pool, or getting my deal of the day on my iPod Groupon application, you now know me as Sam Stryker, Prince of Thieves. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

My pick for my Commencement speaker 
By now, it should be clear that I love to complain and make fun of a lot of Notre Dame quirks and student behav­iors. Heck, if it were not for these numerous things, I would resort to bor­ing you with politi­cal columns. This column, though, is dedicated to some­thing that actually makes me quite upset, angry if you will, about Notre Dame — the process of picking a Commencement Kevin Kimberly speaker. 

Let me begin by Bursting the saying that I Bubble understand the term bureaucracy and I understand that Notre Dame is not immune to it, but the selection of the graduating class’ Commencement speaker each year occurring behind closed doors via a committee with little to no solicitation or feedback from the graduating class itself is outrageous to me. The last I checked Father Jenkins graduated from Notre Dame (undergraduate) in 1976; he is not the one being addressed in May. Now, I do not want this to turn into a “bash the President” session; the poor guy has gotten enough of that to hold him over for the rest of his term. But this does not go without saying that he has the final say in choosing the Commencement speaker. 
Why are class members not contacted or consulted? It is, in fact, our Commencement. Should we not have a fairly large say in who is going to stand before us on the last day of our under­graduate careers to deliver a culminat­ing, appropriate message? I think so. And frankly, I do not want to hear some 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
guy talking about some important poli­cy position, regardless of who it is, nor do I want another person talking about how much he or she did with their life and how I can do that if I just dream and believe. Instead, I would rather hear someone who is not only going to prevent me from falling asleep but someone who will actually relate what they are saying to the class and where we are in our lives. This is a speech to the class, not just one about the speak­er. 
That is why I propose that the com­mencement speaker for the soon to be graduating Class of 2011 be Ellen DeGeneres. Yes, you read that name right. I think Ellen, a college dropout herself, should give us the parting words in May. 
How dare I not name a Catholic, right? I can already hear the chorus of complaints begin to trickle in because of the fact that Ellen is a lesbian, some­thing that she unashamedly accepts and embraces. And the common thought seems to be that if you are not an upstanding Catholic who professes (but potentially does not practice) everything that the Church says, you are not qualified to address the stu­dents at the University of Notre Dame. 
While that could not be more wrong, let me lay to rest this idea that Ellen does not act like a Catholic should, even though she may not label herself as one, or that her life story is suddenly not acceptable because she is homosex­ual. The time of uncertainty many of us are about to face is something Ellen can say “been there, done that” to. Where she is now can be attributed to the fact that she never took no as a finality, even though she may have heard it many more times than she pre­ferred. To become one of the best in the business took hard work, courage and persistence. She failed at times but never failed ultimately. 
She is now recognized as one of the best in the land in showbiz, particularly for her dancing. As you may know, her very popular show, Ellen, is a hit with many different types of people. But what she has been able to do with that show is even more of a hit to me. The care, concern and compassion she exhibits for people, particularly those going through rough times and those who just need a helping hand is amaz­ing. The joy she brings to people is unmatched and the love she has for others, regardless of circumstance, is incredible. To top it off, the humbleness by which she does it all is praiseworthy. That, my friends, is an example of a Catholic — a compassionate, helpful, joyful woman who loves without any due praise expected in return. 
Give her the label or not, she has a lot to teach us in such a short speech about what it means to live life to the fullest and just how to do that. And also very important, she is ridiculously hilarious. When she is speaking, you think of her as nothing more or less than someone speaking from the heart with a hint of humor that goes a long way. To watch her speak in Notre Dame Stadium on May 22, 2011, would not only be the best way to end my time here, but it would be one of the most fulfilling. 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“When we are unable to find tranquility within ourselves, it is useless to seek it elsewhere.” 
Francois de La Rochefoucauld French author and moralist 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The human heart is a strangevessel. Love and hatred can exist side by side.” 
Scott Westerfeld 
U.S. author 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
Monday, January 24, 2011 page 9 
Martin Luther King dinner 
Which race is best at math? Which race would you want on your basket­ball team? Finish this sentence: _______ men can’t jump. If you had to think about these responses you are probably in the minority. The 
Michael Savage 
bottom line is we all operate 
Guest
under certain 

Columnist
assumptions that often don’t reflect the whole story. But a one-sided story is an incomplete story, which leads to false pretenses. On the other hand a one-sided story is safe because there is no opposing side to challenge our perceptions. Even still a complete story remains invaluable simply by presenting the opportunity to understand the differences and similarities between the opposing sides. A wise friend of mine and Notre Dame alumnus told me, “The more we express our misunderstand­ings of each other, the better we come to understand each other in time.” 
That being said, this week was the 25th observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. To many of us this sim­ply meant another day to sleep in before the upcoming spring semester. Caught up in enjoying our last days of freedom, hurrying to buy books and last minute schedule changes have consumed our week. Yes, it is true that the University recognizes Dr. King as a model of non-violence and community service, but as a student body how is his message relevant? 
This past Wednesday, a group of over 90 students and faculty mem­bers attempted to address this very question at the 18th Annual Martin Luther King Dinner. The theme of the dinner was Eyes Wide Shut. The din­ner was comprised of student leaders representative of various classes and minority groups joined to celebrate and discuss the teachings of Dr. King not only as a remedy of the past, but as a catalyst for today. Topics were discussed such as immigration, socioeconomic inequality, stereotyp­ing and unity. Many perspectives were, literally, brought to the table, but one common thread emerged: we must keep moving forward. Still, today people are marginalized and discriminated against for reasons out of their control. But why? If people across the board agree that stereo­types serve limit one’s scope and that racism is unacceptable in today’s society, why do we hold on to these parasitic qualities? 
The only answer that makes sense to me is a lack of exposure to various cultures or different people in gener­al. I hate to use the word ignorance, as young adults who in the future will possess the power to affect change; we must strive to understand the consequences for all people. As put by Dr. King, “Nothing in the world is more dangerous than sincere igno­rance and conscientious stupidity.” This quote resonates in discussions regarding many issues facing this campus whether they are race relat­ed or not. 
I don’t expect to become fully inclu­sive anytime soon, but much progress can be made on the individual level. Both sides need improvement. On one hand marginalized students must be patient with their peers who may be unaware, and on the other, members of the community who may not have been exposed to diversity should seize the opportunity to learn. The bottom line is a little effort goes a long way. 
That being said, Multicultural Student Programs and Services have coordinated a five-part series on the topic of race. Also, with February being Black History Month there will be a plethora of opportunities to not only learn from but to support your fellow peers. 
Michael Savage is a sophomore. He can be reached at msavage2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

‘Liberated men’s theology’ 
Dear Mr. Easley: 
As a grizzled veteran who has been a feminist since 1968 or so, I can only say “bravo” to your column. It’s true that you don’t seem to know beans about gender studies (not to mention women’s history). Basically, though, your point is absolutely sound — in fact, it’s orthodox feminism! 
There are women who pre­fer to spend their energies on raising children and caring for their families rather than on their careers. Feminists have always said that these women should be absolutely encouraged to do so. Raising children and caring for those we love are among the most important things people do. 
Unfortunately, however, you missed the most crucial point. 
There are just as many men who would prefer to spend their time raising their chil­dren and caring for those they love than pursuing cutthroat careers! (Or even working dead-end jobs, which is a lot more common). 
Unfortunately, these men face even more social and cul­tural pressure not to pursue these dreams than similarly situated women. All that femi­nism says that such men should be equally free to pur­sue their dream of devoting themselves to being a home­maker. (I’m dead serious here 
— this is not sarcasm.) Why shouldn’t they be able to do so? 
Nota bene: for all the women (or gay gays) who’ve read this far: If you do find this kind and caring guy — go for it! 
Gail Bederman 
staff Assoc. Prof. of History Jan. 21 





Condemnation 
I found Friday’s front page article on the continuing Lizzy Seeberg saga particularly com­pelling (“Jenkins: Seeberg inves­tigation had ‘integrity,’” Jan. 21) The accused student’s attorney Mr. Power suggests the exis­tence of cell phone records which significantly contradict Seeberg’s written account of the events. In light of these claims, there is certainly room to view Lizzy Seeberg negatively for the first time. If Mr. Power is correct (and for the sake of fairness this “if” must be stressed) Seeberg’s honesty is called into question and our picture of the events changes drastically. It is dis­tasteful and unproductive to attack the character of a young lady so unfortunately deceased, and I hope no one stoops to that. But I do hope we take this opportunity to realize that not too long ago many of us accused a fellow student of committing a crime so horrible it caused Lizzy Seeberg to kill herself out of shame. We accused Notre Dame of protecting its football pro­gram at the expense of Lizzy’s life. We didn’t know a thing about what happened, did we? Really, we still don’t, other than that the reported crime was far more minor than we were ini­tially led to believe. Guys, let’s learn to be gentlemen. And all of us, let’s not be so quick to condemn. 
Joseph Evetts 
senior off campus Jan. 21 


UWIRE 
Starbucks adds to portion problems 
Starbucks Coffee will be rolling out a new, gargantuan, 31-ounce “Trenta” drink size to all Starbucks stores in the United States by May 3. 
Cue the collective groans of every dietician in America. 
The Trenta release 
Eddie Kim 
comes in response to the consumer demand for 
The Daily
bigger iced drinks per-
Trojan 
fect for those long, hot summer days. 
Thankfully, you won’t be able to pick up a 31-ounce Frappuccino any time soon, since the size is restricted to iced teas and coffees, with the usual choices of sweeteners, milk and cream. 
Even Starbucks had the common sense to know that America doesn’t need 31 ounces of caramel macchiato. 
Here’s the kicker, though: The Trenta, with a volume of 916 ml, is bigger than the aver­age capacity of the human stomach, which is about 900 ml. 
Do we really need to be lugging around icy beverages that have more liquid than the average stomach would like to hold? Granted, a stomach stretches, but the image is weirdly grotesque. 
The size of the new Trenta pales in compar­ison to some of the convenience store options out there, but to see such a drink come from Starbucks? C’mon. 
Coffeehouses are meant to be cool, dignified and sophisticated, regardless of whether any of those adjectives fit Starbucks anymore. The rise of the espresso drink, formerly an accessory of the stereotypical European-Italian, brought with it a certain appeal. An appeal threatened by what appears to be a slow march toward the 7-11 OMGWTF-Gulp, or whatever they’re calling it these days. 
Even ignoring the oxymoronic nature of Starbucks following lowbrow “bigger is bet­ter” consumer trends, there is something very silly about introducing such an enormous drink size to the public. Everything is already too big. Portion sizes have grown across the board in America, distorting our sense of what’s properly portioned and what’s just way too large. 
The average drink size twenty to thirty years ago was about eight ounces, according to The New York Times. Now? It’s somewhere around 20 ounces. Such increases have left us with more than a quenched thirst: The number of obese people in the United States has doubled since the 1970s. 
With every increase in portion size, we start to lose sight of how much we’re supposed to eat. And one of the easiest fixes to this literal and metaphoric ballooning of America? Food establishments simply offering smaller por­tions. 
The irony of this, when it comes to Starbucks, is that while they’re willing to unveil a new drink size that could satisfy a baby blue whale, they still hide their smallest available size, the eight-ounce Short, behind the counter. You have to ask for it specifically, as it’s not an on-the-menu option. Why try to keep it secret? A smaller size delivers a bet­ter, more classically potent espresso flavor while being healthier and cheaper at the same time. That Venti cappuccino you’re holding is not a cappuccino. Trust me. 
Even more surreptitiously, Tim Harford, author of the book The Undercover Economist, says that some companies partici­pate in deliberate “product sabotage” toward products that are less profitable. This includes hiding them, damaging them or making their packaging look ugly, encourag­ing customers to buy the bigger, better options. 
“It’s not hard to identify the price-blind cus­tomers in Starbucks. They’re the ones buying enough latté to bathe Cleopatra,” Harford wrote in Slate. “The major costs of staff time, space in the queue and packaging are similar for any size of drink. So, larger drinks carry a substantially higher markup.” 
And so, as is inevitable with any business situation, it all comes down to money. Starbucks has to find a way to keep up with fast-food chains such as McDonald’s, which serve larger drinks for less cash. 
And though Starbucks optimistically states that a sweetened Trenta-sized drink won’t be more than 230 calories, it’s still a disconcert­ing move in a nation where everyone, includ­ing me, can’t seem to get a grip on how much they should be eating and drinking. Such curiously manipulative business practices aren’t going to change for a while. 
At least now I can have a Trenta iced tea to hold me over until they do. 
This article was first published in the Jan. 20 issue of The Daily Trojan, the daily publication serving the University of Southern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 





Scene
page 10 Monday, September 24, 2011 

By TROY MATHEW 
Scene Writer 
With topics ranging from the controversial Westboro Baptist Church to the diffi­culties of single motherhood, the 22nd Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival was highly entertaining and impressive. The festival, fea­turing 15 short films and documentaries, aired this weekend in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Here are some of the highlights: 
“The Elect” 
The film provides a fasci­nating and unflinching look at the everyday lives of the hateful Westboro Baptist Church. The church uses jar­ring signs and slogans, nationwide picketing tours and heinous Lady Gaga par­odies to spread their word. The most striking thing about this documentary was its glimpse into the lives of the church’s youth. Children stand with the church’s adult members at their protests, using hateful speech to con­demn a wide variety of tar­gets. One child is shown des­perately begging his mother to let him join the church on a trip to San Francisco for a protest. The way in which the hateful ideology of the church is passed on to chil­dren is truly shocking and makes for an enthralling documentary. 
“True” 
Suspenseful and creepy, this black and white film depicts the sinister plot of a man and woman. The movie, without using any dialogue, focuses on sounds such as footsteps and a screeching teakettle to keep the audi­ence on edge. 
“Picking Up America” 
This documentary features four people in their twenties 
on a cross -country road cleaning trip. The film cap­tures funny and cringe-wor­thy moments, including the disposal of roadside urine-filled plastic bottles and the group’s drinking of a bottle of chocolate milk found in a ditch. The initiative mem­bers’ passion for their cause is truly remarkable, and comes through in their inter­views. They accomplish stag­gering results and meticu­lously weigh each bag of trash to track their statis­tics. 
“Searching for Dillinger” 
This movie shows a humorous glimpse into Monterey, Ind., the town known for housing legendary gangster John Dillinger. Monterey is mentioned as the perfect place to hide from the law, with no local police force, hospitable locals and a location in the middle of nowhere. Town historians and local experts 
on gang activity lead the viewer on a tour of Dillinger’s hangouts. The colorful locals and captions provide consistent laughs and function to introduce the audience to a part of the country they would have never thought to check out on their own. 
“Rosa y Luna” 
The film follows the strug­gles of a single mother returning to the workforce after giving birth. Tania, the actress playing Rosa, suc­cessfully shows the heart­break of leaving her child off at a neighbor’s as she leaves for the construction site. Likewise, the actors commu­nicate brilliantly and largely without dialogue. The shifty eyes of a male coworker, the mournful glance of a mother leaving her child and the casual offering of a cigarette en route to work are all sim­ple gestures that work per­fectly to express emotion and advance characteriza­tion. 
The high-quality work pre­sented at the film festival made for a great show. Visit ftt.nd.edu to find out more about the film department and its upcoming events. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 



By CHRIS COLLUM 
Scene Writer 
Better known by his world famous moniker Snoop Dogg, Calvin Broadus will take the stage this Wednesday at Club Fever in South Bend. Snoop Dogg, originally known as life, Calvin Broadus began singing and playing piano for his church when he was very young and began rapping at the age of 11. While still in high school, he was arrested for criminal distribution of cocaine and served six months in prison, the first of many legal troubles for Snoop Dogg. He identified ties, however, Snoop Dogg has been an extremely successful rapper and entertainer for two decades. His first appearance in film was a cameo appearance in the 1998 stoner cult classic “Half Baked,” written by and starring Dave Chappelle. He has since appeared in approximate­ly twenty-five movies, including Sold, Not to Be Told,” which fea­tured “Gin & Juice II” and smash hit “Still a G Thang.” 
While he certainly never faded from the limelight, Snoop Dogg has seen resurgence in popularity in recent years, with his single “I Wanna Rock” reaching number three on the 
U.S. Billboard Rap Songs chart reviews that recent stops of this current tour have gotten, it seems likely that this Wednesday’s performance should not disappoint those who attend. Tickets are $45 in advance and $49 the day of the show, however the show is cur­rently sold out according to the Ticketmaster website. 
Snoop Doggy Dogg before he changed his performance name in 1996, has been rapping and acting for more than 20 years. His 1993 debut album “Doggystyle” featured such hit singles as “Gin and Juice” and “Who Am I (What’s My Name)” and has been hailed as a classic of the gangsta rap genre. He is currently touring in support of “Malice n Wonderland,” his 10th album, and plans to release another studio effort entitled “Doggumentary” in March of this year. 
Born in 1971 in Los Angeles, where he has lived his entire himself as a member of the Crips gang for years, which cou­pled with his well-known recre­ational use of marijuana, which has been the source of many of his legal problems. While recording “Doggystyle” in 1993, Broadus was arrested in con­nection with the murder of rival gang member Phillip Woldermarian by Snoop Dogg’s bodyguard. Additionally, after allegedly sparking a brawl at Heathrow Airport in London, Broadus has been banned from entering the United Kingdom for life. 
Despite these legal difficul­“Soul Plane,” “Bones” and “Starsky and Hutch.” His influnce on popular culture, however, is possibly best exem­plified by the popularity of the suffix “-izzle” which Snoop Dogg is credited with introducing to the mass public. 
Following the massive suc­cess of “Doggystyle” — it was certified four times platinum a little more than six months after its release — Snoop Dogg released “The Doggfather” in 1996, his last album on Dr. Dre’s Death Row record label. In 1998 Broadus dropped his third album “Da Game Is to Be in late 2009. Then of course there is his guest spot in Katy Perry’s chart-topping “California Gurls” as well as his cameo appearance in the subse­quent video. In addition to his upcoming solo album, Snoop Dogg is supposedly recording an album with up-and-coming Pittsburgh rapper Wiz Khalifa. At the very least Snoop did appear on the official remix for Wiz’s breakthrough hit “Black and Yellow” a few months ago. 
Snoop Dogg has always been known for putting on an extrav­agant and spirited live perform­ance, and given the good 

Contact Chris Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Monday, January 24, 2011 page 11 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Lauren Matich Spotted: On North Quad 

Lauren is ready for the cold andsnowy weather of South Bendand she does it with style.Hercolorful hat and patterned scarfand coat make her look chic and fun. She’s embracing winter in a very fashionable way! 


Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 24, 2011 
NFL 




Green Bay wins NFC title 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — There was one Monster of the Midway in the NFC championship game and his name was Aaron Rodgers. 
He wasn’t even at his best and, still, he was better than the first, the second and the third quar­terback used in vain by the Chicago Bears against their bit­ter rivals. 
Rodgers ran for a score and made a TD-saving tackle in lead­ing the Green Bay Packers into the Super Bowl with a bone-jar­ring 21-14 victory Sunday over Chicago. 
“It’s an incredible feeling,” Rodgers said. “I’m at a loss for words.” 
Rodgers played well enough to keep the Bears off balance all afternoon, Green Bay punter Tim Masthay kept Devin Hester under wraps and the Packers’ superb defense took care of the rest in knocking the Bears out of the playoffs. 
It was the 182nd meeting in the league’s most historic feud, and the stakes had never been bigger. 
Now the Packers (13-6) are headed to Dallas. And no matter what happens in the Super Bowl on Feb. 6, the Packers and their fans hold ultimate bragging rights over their foes to the south. Green Bay will play the winner of Sunday night’s AFC title game between the New York Jets and Pittsburgh Steelers. 
“We made a play to win the game and that’s all that mat­ters,” Packers linebacker Clay Matthews said. “Keep playing defense the way we know how, and it’s going to be tough for teams to beat us.” 
All Jay Cutler could do was watch, having left the game with a knee injury early in the third quarter. Even before the injury, Cutler was having trouble mov­ing the ball. Worse, he was get­ting booed by the home fans. 
Primary backup Todd Collins replaced Cutler and was jeered even worse. Then little-known backup Caleb Hanie and the Bears (12-6) actually made it a game. 
Chicago’s third-string quarter­back rallied the Bears for a touchdown drive to cut the lead to 14-7 after Chester Taylor’s 1­yard touchdown run early in the fourth quarter. 
Hanie had a chance to tie the game after the Bears’ defense finally got a few stops, but threw a ball straight to Packers defen­sive lineman B.J. Raji, who lum­bered 18 yards into the end zone for a touchdown to give the Packers a 21-7 lead. 
But Hanie wasn’t finished. He threw a 35-yard touchdown pass to Earl Bennett to again cut the lead to seven points with 4:43 left. 


The Bears forced a punt and got the ball back with under 3 minutes left. Hanie drove the Bears to the Green Bay 29-yard line, then threw a fourth-down interception to Sam Shields—the rookie’s second of the game. 
Now all those Pro Bowl voters who didn’t think Rodgers was worthy can relax. They’re off the hook. Rodgers will be headed to the Super Bowl instead. 
Rodgers proved ready for the biggest day of his brief but impressive career as the succes­sor to Brett Favre, even if his final stat line didn’t look impres­sive after an ugly, hard-fought game. 
He threw for 244 yards with two interceptions—a disappoint­ment, given how well he had played lately. But his play in the first half was good enough to put the Bears in a two-touchdown hole, boggling a good defense that suddenly seemed to fall for every play-action fake. 
Chicago was ready for a cham­pionship party under sunny skies and 20-degree temperatures, and went wild from the national anthem on. But Rodgers quieted them down quickly, marching the Packers on an opening drive then ended with Rodgers scram­bling for a score. 
The Bears went with a heavy dose of running back Matt Forte early on, with limited success. 
Early in the second quarter, Brandon Jackson faked Brian Urlacher out for a long gain on a screen pass, and Rodgers’ pass to Jordy Nelson set up James Starks’ 4-yard touchdown run to give Green Bay a 14-0 lead. 
It was the latest in a series of big moments for Rodgers, who has earned near-universal praise for the way he has played this season—especially since sitting out the Packers’ Dec. 19 loss at New England because of a con­cussion. 
Rodgers has been on a hot streak ever since, and doing it under pressure. The Packers would have been out of the play­offs with a loss in either of their last two regular-season games, including the regular season finale against Chicago. 
With the Packers leading 14-0 at halftime, Green Bay’s defense forced a three-and-out to begin the second half, and Rodgers went back to marching the Packers down the field. 
With the Packers poised to put the game away, Rodgers instead tossed the ball to Urlacher on third-and-goal. He took off and ran down the Bears linebacker near midfield, barely preventing him from running it back for a touchdown when he grabbed him. 
“I don’t think he saw me,” Urlacher said. “He threw it to me—then he tackled me.” 
Urlacher, who said earlier in the week that he voted for Rodgers for the Pro Bowl, walked away impressed. 
“Great quarterback, no doubt about that,” Urlacher said. 
But after Urlacher’s intercep­tion, the Bears couldn’t make anything happen with Collins in for Cutler, and appeared to be headed for a blowout until Hanie took over. 
Packers players were sur­prised Cutler didn’t come back. 
“You know if he doesn’t come back it had to be serious, not to come back and play in this game,” Charles Woodson said. 
Matthews wasn’t sure when Cutler got hurt. 
“Kinda wish they would have had Jay in there the whole time the way things were going,” Matthews said. 
Bears coach Lovie Smith grew testy when asked about Cutler’s injury after the game. 
“He couldn’t go, and we moved on,” Smith said. 
NHL 


Flyers prevail in Stanley Cup rematch 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — The Philadelphia Flyers made a strong statement with a strong effort. 
Jeff Carter had two goals and an assist, and rookie Sergei Bobrovsky made 30 saves in Philadelphia’s 4-1 win over the Chicago Blackhawks on Sunday. 
Nikolay Zherdev and Scott Hartnell added goals, and Claude Giroux had four assists for the Flyers in the only regular-season rematch of last year’s Stanley Cup finals. 
Philadelphia was in charge most of the game against the defending champion Blackhawks, who defeated the Flyers in six games in the finals. 
“It obviously was nice,” Carter said. “We know how last year ended. 
“Nothing was said in the room before. I think each guy individu­ally knew what was going on today and it was a big two points for us.” 
Philadelphia improved to a league-leading 69 points and is 9­2-0 in its past 11. 
The 22-year-old Bobrovsky lost a bid for his first career shutout at 
6:49 of the third period when Marian Hossa scored on a penalty shot. 
“I’m really happy we won the game today because we main­tained our position in first place this year,” Flyers coach Peter Laviolette said. “It’s about looking forward not looking back. 
“We came into a loud building against a very good hockey team, and we played a real sound hock­ey game and walked away with two points.” 
Chicago lost in regulation for the first time since Jan. 5 and had been on a 5-0-1 roll. 
“It seems like they had five guys in the neutral zone,” Hossa said. “They were waiting for our mis­takes and it was hard to get the puck by them.” 
Chicago rookie Corey Crawford finished with 30 saves. 
Bobrovsky was especially sharp in the first period before the Flyers took control. 
The Blackhawks had the better scoring chances in the up-tempo, scoreless first. Bobrovsky made several quick, close-in saves, including ones on Jonathan Toews and Tomas Kopecky. 
“(Bobrovsky) was in complete control,” Laviolette said. “Never too far out of position. Not deep. There were no second opportuni­ties. He was quick with his legs.” 
As the period progressed, Chicago’s skating and puck pos­session game became more domi­nant. But Carter opened the scor­ing 49 seconds into the second to cap a lengthy goal-mouth scram­ble. 
Crawford stopped Braydon Coburn’s drive from the right point, but couldn’t control the rebound. While Crawford was down in the crease, the Flyers managed several attempts that hit him or were blocked by the Blackhawks. Carter finally pushed the puck over the goal line to give the Flyers a 1-0 lead. 
“It was a weird one,” Carter said. “We missed about five times.” 
Philadelphia then tightened its play and coverage to slow down Chicago. Meanwhile, the Flyers generated several prime chances and ended up outshooting Chicago 19-9 in the period. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't Join/start weekly pen-and-paper THE OTHER GUYS QUOTES Police Officer: You shot Derek go it alone. RPG / snacky potluck group Jeter? You should’ve shot A-Rod! 
FOR RENT PERSONAL Contact me if you're looking for new Allen Gamble: At age 11, I audited Other Officer: Yea! Derek Jeter is a Notre Dame has many resources in player or send me the systems and my parents. biracial angel! place to assist you. settings you'd want to play. Believe me, there were some dis-——————————————— 
Walk to Campus Student Housing. If you or someone you care about I can GM if necessary, but don't crepancies, and I was grounded. Allen Gamble: OW, my ears! How 1, 2, and 3 bedrooms from $465 per has been sexually assaulted, we If you or someone you love needs have to. ——————————————— do you walk away from an explo­bed. can help. confidential support or assistance, I'm leaning toward systems that are Radio Dispatch: We found your sion without it hurting your ears, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. cheap to start up -- dnd 3.5, stolen Prius. It was voting for Ralph man? I call BS on that! This is like Swimming Pool, Fitness Center, For more information, visit Notre GURPS, or Ars Magica, but am Nader. watching Star Wars, where Luke Tanning Beds. Clover Village and Dames website: For more information, visit ND's flexible. ——————————————— uses the Force and escapes the Clover Ridge. website at: Open to any level of roleplaying, Terry Hoitz: Your farts aren't manly. Death Star without a problem, com­
http://csap.nd.edu from hack 'n' slash on up -- we Allen Gamble: Are you serious? pletely unrealistic! 574.272.8124 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu could even play Munchkin. Terry Hoitz: They sound like a baby Terry Hoitz: Don't insult Star Wars, www.colvervillageapartments.com nd.rpg.snax@gmail.com blowing out birthday candles. man! That's the Holy Grail of sci-fi! ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Monday, January 24, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Roddick is the last American to fall in Open 
were gone from the Australian 
Associated Press 
Open. 

MELBOURNE, Australia — Andy Roddick lost to 19th-seeded Roddick didn’t like being the fall guy Stanislas Wawrinka on a cool again. The facts, however, were Sunday night at Melbourne Park. unmistakable: All the Americans Roddick saw 24 aces whip past him, barely got a look at a break-point chance and didn’t get his own big serve firing in a 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 fourth-round defeat. 

Roddick, seeded eighth, had been the last American man standing in the singles field. The women were out before the third round ended. Venus Williams lasted seven only points before she hobbled off with an ailing hip muscle. 
“Obviously I’m not going to sit here and ... “ Roddick checked him­self and then switched gears, saying the stories were already written and it didn’t really matter what he said. “Obviously wasn’t the showing that we wanted, you know, but I’m doing what I can.” 
Roddick’s ouster came on a day when Roger Federer equaled Jimmy Connors’ Open era mark by reaching his 27th straight quarterfi­nal at a major, and Francesca Schiavone won the longest women’s match in Grand Slam history — a 6­4, 1-6, 16-14 victory over Svetlana Kuznetsova that took 4 hours, 44 minutes. 
No. 3 Novak Djokovic and No. 6 Tomas Berdych also won in the fourth round. Among the women, No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki and No. 9 advanced, while No. 14 Maria Sharapova lost to No. 30 Andrea Petkovic. 
Since Roddick’s 2003 U.S. Open victory, no American man has won a major. Venus and sister Serena Williams have won 10 majors between them in the interim, and 20 between them overall. Serena was the 2010 champion in Australia, but couldn’t defend her title because of a foot injury. 
“Not having the best player in the world at a major would be ... be tough for any country. Obviously we want her healthy as much as possi­ble,” Roddick said. “You know, she’s instantly the best player in the game when she comes back.” 
Roddick’s career was starting in the days when Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi were winding down. Since they retired, no American man has regularly kept him compa­ny in the late stages of majors. 
“It’s tough,” he said. “I remember last summer when I was catching all the heat for not having an American guy in the top 10 for the first time in 15 years. Didn’t really make sense to me that I was the one taking heat when I was the only guy that had been there for the last six years. 
“It’s a responsibility that has great benefits, and it’s hard sometimes as well. ... For many reasons, I would love to have guys there with me all the time.” 
Roddick’s departure leaves 2010 finalist Andy Murray as the only player from any of the Grand Slam host countries in the tournament. All the French and the Australian players were already beaten by the end of the third round. There’s two Swiss, but only one can reach the semifinals. 
Wawrinka advanced to the first all-Swiss quarterfinal at a major in the Open era, where he’ll run into Federer, the defending champion. 
Federer beat Tommy Robredo 6­3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 to reach the quarter­finals for the 27th major in a row. Connors’ mark came between 1973 and 1983 — although he didn’t play every major because he was hurt or didn’t travel to Australia. 
Schiavone, the French Open champion, saved six match points, then converted on her third match point in the longest women’s match at a major in terms of time in the Open era. The longest previous record was set in Australia last year when Barbora Zahlavova-Strycova beat Regina Kulikova 7-6 (5), 6-7 (10), 6-3 in 4:19. 
Said a spent Schiavone: “At the end, you have something more, always.” 
Kuznetsova said the match was so long she was forgetting the score or who should serve. Schiavone said it wasn’t quite that bad for her. 
“But I was watching the clock, and I say, ‘Brava, Francesca, you are tough!’” 
The 30-year-old Italian will next meet Wozniacki, who reached the quarterfinals in Australia for the first time with a 6-3, 6-4 win over Anastasija Sevastova. She then caused a bit of stir at her news con­ference with a tale about being scratched by a kangaroo. 
She later returned to Melbourne Park to clarify she’d made up the story and to apologize, saying she didn’t think anyone would believe it. 
Petkovic topped Sharapova, the 2008 champion, 6-2, 6-3. She will next play Li, the 2010 semifinalist from China who advanced with a 6­3, 6-3 decision over No. 8 Victoria Azarenka. 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2011 
NFL 

Chicago’s QB woes cost trip to Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Sid Luckman was without a doubt the best quarterback the Bears ever had. 
Sad to say, his ghost would probably be ranked No. 2. 
So imagine this: Nearly a century into the NFL’s longest-running rivalry and six decades after Luckman left town, Chicago may have finally found another real quarterback. Unfortunately, they didn’t take the wraps 
off Caleb Hanie until a minute remained in the third quarter of Green Bay’s 21-14 win over the Bears — too late to do the league’s most historically pass-chal­lenged franchise much good. 
As it turned out, Hanie was the team’s third option at quarterback, sent in to relieve second -stringer Todd Collins, himself a replacement for injured starter Jay Cutler. Yet Hanie still managed to Bowl, it’s hard.” 
Harder still was the bar­rage Cutler took instanta ­neously on Twitter from some current and retired NFL players. Several ques­tioned his guts. 
“If I’m on chicago team jay cutler has to wait till me and the team shower get dressed and leave before he comes in the locker room!” wrote Cardinals defensive lineman Darnell Dockett. 
“Folks i never question a players injury but i do ques­tion a players heart,” wrote Deion Sanders, the far­from-lionhearted one-time cornerback and current NFL analyst. 
Nobody, though, ques ­tioned Hanie’s heart. 
The former Colorado State quarterback went undrafted in 2008, threw exactly seven passes in his first two seasons and found out dur­ing the Bears bye week that he ’d dropped to No. 3 behind Collins, the 38-year­old journey­man from Mi chig an. Asked 

t h r o w p a s s e s C u t l e r  m o r e t h a n a n d  “People were telling me ‘congratulations’ after  whether the d e m o t i o n m o t i v a t e d  
C o l l i n s  c o m - and I’m thinking I just  h i m ,  H a n i e  
b i n e d , including the B e a r s ’ o n l y p a s s i n g  threw interceptions. I guess all that means is that they don’t expect  s a i d , “ I ’ d like to think I don’t need t h a t t y p e o f  
t o u c h d o w n ,  much.”  motivation.”  
a n d  n e a r l y  E  v  e  r  y  
doubled their p a s s i n g y a r d a g e a n d  Caleb Hanie Bears quarterback  Bea rs qu a r -t e r b a c k c a n f i n d a l l t h e  
q u a r t e r b a c k  m o t i v a t i o n  
ratings.  h e  n e e d s  
“  P e o p l e  s i m p l y  b y  
w e r e  t e l l i n g  studying the  

me, ‘congratulations’ after team’s record books. After and I’m thinking I just all this time, Luckman still threw interceptions,” Hanie holds nearly every impor­said sheepishly afterward. tant mark. “I guess all that means is Hanie grew up in Forney, that they don ’t expect Texas, a small town some much.” 40 miles east of Cowboys 
That will go down as the Stadium and from among all understatement of the the great Dallas quarter ­Bears ’ season. Lousy QBs backs, chose Troy Aikman are such a given in Chicago as his model. He acknowl­that when the team traded edged he knew little about in April, 2009, for the rock-the Bears’ sorry legacy at et -armed Cutler — who the position when he despite plenty of hoopla did arrived — Jim McMahon little in Denver and never and Erik Kramer were the reached the playoffs — half only two that came to mind the Bears fans volunteered — then added, “I know it’s to pick him up at the air-been a carousel this port. Then he found out why decade.” few QBs ever flourish here, Just this decade? went 7-9 with an NFL-high Caleb, try since the day 26 interceptions, and prob-club founder George Halas ably figured out that the threw open the doors on the 
other half of the fan base business. had volunteered to drive It ’s easy to see how him back to O’Hare. Chicago became home and 
But the Bears brought in hearth to so many vicious offensive coordinator Mike defenders over the years. Martz to capitalize on The front office rarely Cutler ’s strength, and risked high draft picks on despite some rocky stretch-quarterbacks or soft-handed es, made it as far as the receivers, arguing a punish-next -to -last game of the ing defense was the quick-season. Cutler took a shot to est way to find an audience the knee in the last series and keep it in what was before intermission. decidedly a workingman’s 
After an exam at halftime, town during the league ’s team trainers taped the formative years. joint and Cutler tried riding Others say the cold, wind an exercise bike on the and snow that prevailed for sideline in hopes of playing much of the season made an the second half. Finally, the offense that relied on the medical staff ruled him out. pass too risky a proposition. 
“It ’s a lonely feeling, ” But that didn ’t stop the Cutler said. “Go through Packers, stuck in the same training camp and every -tough climate, from upgrad­thing else and get to this ing their offense when the point and have an opportu-league changed the rules to nity to get in the Super favor a more wide -open game. 

The Bears, in fact, went through nearly two dozen starters during the stretch Brett Favre was with the Packers and might need half as many again to be com ­petitive during the reign of third -year starter Aaron Rodgers, who is proving the best way to succeed a leg­end is start fast and then get even better. 
Hanie isn’t likely to unseat Cutler anytime soon. Not after what the Bears gave up to get Cutler, nor consid­ering how much cash they threw at him in 2009 to secure a two-year contract extension through 2013. That suited the Super Bowl-bound Packers just fine. 
“I kind of wish we had Jay in there the whole game,” Green Bay linebacker Clay Matthews said, “the way things were going.” 
“I heard his knee was banged up or something like that,” safety Charlie Peprah added, “but 12 came in and good for him. I’m hopeful this will spark his career in the NFL. He came in and didn’t seem too rattled.” 


Monday, January 24, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Pittsburgh survives late Jets rally for AFC title 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — The Pittsburgh Steelers found a fit­ting way to shut down the New York Jets’ season. 
What started with “Hard Knocks,” ended with hard knocks. 
For the third time in six sea­sons, Terrible Towels will twirl at the Super Bowl. The Steelers silenced Rex Ryan’s wild bunch with a fumble return for a touchdown and a goal-line stand in a 24-19 victory for the AFC championship Sunday. They will face Green Bay in Dallas in two weeks. 
Look out Big D, here comes another Big D—in black and gold, and with an unmatched history of carrying off the Lombardi Trophy. 
You can bet that unit led by James Harrison, which shut down the Jets’ comeback in the fourth quarter, will test Aaron Rodgers. That overwhelming defense set the tone for most of a frigid night at Heinz Field to end the Jets’ stunning postsea­son run. Ryan slammed down his headset when Antonio Brown, also a hero last week, caught a pass for a first down that allowed Pittsburgh to hang on and run out the clock. 
And the Steelers (14-4) will challenge the Packers’ defense with a versatile attack led by running back Rashard Mendenhall and quarterback Ben Roethlisberger. 
The Steelers ended the Jets’ season with a dominant first half for a 24-3 edge. Mendenhall had 95 of his 121 yards and a touchdown. 
“We knew we were going to have a chance to run the ball well,” Mendenhall said. “The offensive line, they controlled the line of scrimmage all game.” 
Roethlisberger has moved on from a four-game suspension at the beginning of the season to take Pittsburgh to its eighth Super Bowl; the Steelers own the most titles, six. He scram­bled time and again for key gains, often against shoddy tackling. 
At game’s end, he kneeled on the field, his face buried in an AFC championship T-shirt. 
The cocky Jets seemed to have left everything they had in New England last Sunday. There was little trash talking all week and even less fire early in their biggest game since win­ning the championship 42 years ago. They haven’t been back to the Super Bowl. 
The Steelers are regulars, including titles for the 2005 and 2008 teams, both led by Roethlisberger and a fierce defense sparked by playmaking safety Troy Polamalu. 
Polamalu, his hair pouring from under his helmet as the black-and-gold signature towels flowed throughout Heinz Field, didn’t have to do a whole lot this time. Not with the way his teammates whipped the Jets at the line of scrimmage before a spirited New York surge in the second half. 
And too often, New York’s defense was like a swinging gate that Roethlisberger and Mendenhall ran through with ease. 
New York (13-6) failed for the fourth time in the AFC title game since 1969, when the Jets won perhaps the most signifi­cant of all Super Bowls. It was a devastating finish, particularly after the Jets beat Peyton Manning and the Colts, then Tom Brady and the Patriots on the road to get to Pittsburgh. 
Asked if he would change anything about this season, Ryan said “I would change the outcome of this game and that’s the only thing I would change. We don’t need to apologize to anybody. We’ll be back, you’ll see.” 
The Steelers snapped New York’s hopes of making the Super Bowl a sixth-seed spec­tacular; the Packers are the NFC’s No. 6 seed. 
Coach Mike Tomlin had his Steelers eager for the fight from the outset, while Ryan’s guys were flat until it was too late. The Jets did get a 45-yard TD pass from Mark Sanchez to Santonio Holmes—the hero of Pittsburgh’s Super Bowl victory two years ago—and a safety after Pittsburgh’s goal-line stand. 
But the early hole was too deep, even after a 4-yard TD pass to Jerricho Cotchery made it 24-19 with 3:06 remaining. The Jets never got the ball back. 
Pittsburgh set the early tone with a 66-yard march that took up the first nine minutes, with Roethlisberger displaying his scrambling skills on several plays, including a key 12-yard run on third-and-12. Mendenhall reached the ball over the goal line from the 1, the final of a 15-play drive in which the Steelers pushed around Ryan’s pride and joy. 
But Pittsburgh also lost out­standing rookie center Maurkice Pouncey with an ankle injury, leaving it with just one backup offensive lineman. 


It was the Jets who were struggling to block, though. And catch, with the usually sure-handed Cotchery making a key third-down drop. 
Or tackle. Mendenhall found seams to the left, right or up the middle. His 35-yard sprint in the second quarter led to Shaun Suisham’s 20-yard field goal and a 10-0 lead that was insur­mountable the way the Jets were whiffing. 
It became 17-0 as Roethlisberger, who was not prosecuted after being accused in March of the sexual assault of a 20-year-old college student, scooted into the end zone from the 2. Just 47 seconds later, Ike Taylor sacked Sanchez, forcing a fumble that William Gay ran 22 yards for a 24-0 lead. 

NBA 
Wizards stay winless on the road with loss 
when the road record was a 
Associated Press 
mere 0-9. 
WASHINGTON — The And, of course, negative ener-Washington Wizards are almost gy has a way of feeding on itself halfway there, almost halfway and expanding elsewhere. to losing every one of their road Other NBA teams are using the games in this NBA season. streak as motivation; none 
The 0-20 mark away from the wants to be the first to fall at Verizon Center has become the home to the lowly Wizards. elephant in the room, overshad-“We didn’t want them to get owing anything else the young, their first road win,” Milwaukee rebuilding team might accom-forward Drew Gooden said plish. Even when No. 1 pick after Washington’s latest fruit-John Wall and Co. play well at less foray in an unwelcome city, home, the streak is still on their a 100-87 loss to the Bucks on minds. Wednesday. “We needed to 
Beat the Celtics at home on win.” Saturday night? Sure, that was Washington’s next chance for by far their biggest win of the road redemption comes Monday 
season to date, but the with a visit to the New York postgame celebration included Knicks, and it’s not too early to tongue-in-cheek appeals to start calculating the Wizards’ count it as a road win because chances of moving into the the rare sellout crowd was so league’s record books. Celtics-friendly. They still have some way to 
“This is not a road game? Not go. They NBA always seems to a road win for us? This don’t have an oversupply of truly count?” guard Nick Young said. awful teams, so the Wizards “Man, when they were doing still need to lose two more just the starting lineups, I thought to move into a tie for third (with we was getting booed and they the 1949-50 Waterloo Hawks were getting cheers.” and the 1997-98 Denver 
Coach Flip Saunders calls the Nuggets) for the all-time longest skid the team’s “lightning bolt.” road losing streak to start a Forward Andray Blatche said season. The record is 29, held it’s “passed embarrassment.” by the 1992-93 Denver Wall has been referencing the Nuggets, followed closely by the need to avoid an 0-41 ignominy 0-28 start by the 1974-75 New since early December, back Orleans Jazz. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2011 
FENCING 

Top ranked Irish dominate 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The No. 1 women’s and men’s Irish fencing teams opened the 2011 campaign this weekend by participating in the NYU Invitational. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said being No. 1 in the polls is a testament of what kind of team the Irish are, and what kind of team they can become. 
“It’s showing the strength of our team,” Bednarski said. “It’s also showing the ambition to be No. 1.” 
With top 10 teams, such as Ohio State, Columbia and Northwestern, among others, com­peting in the invitational, Bednarski said before the event that it would be one of the sternest tests his Irish team would face all season. 
The Irish more than held their own. Between the men’s and women’s teams the Irish won 11 matches in the event. The women went undefeated with a perfect 6-0 and the men notched a 5-1 record. 
The women recorded victories over fencing heavyweights Yale, Columbia, Northwestern, Ohio State, St. John’s and NYU. The men were victorious against Yale, Stevens Tech, Columbia, NYU and Ohio State. Their only loss came against No. 3 St. John’s. 
Sophomore James Kaull and senior Jacob Osborne led the men’s team. Kaull finished the matches with a 12-3 record, including 3-0 bouts against Stevens Tech and Ohio State. Osborne had a 9-4 record, which included win­ning two or more bouts against Yale, NYU and Ohio State. 
The women’s team was led by their two All-Americans: senior Ewa Neelip and junior Courtney Hurley. Neelip compiled a record of 14-2, which included undefeated bouts against Northwestern, NYU, and St. John’s. Hurley accumulated a 13-2 record and was also unde­feated in three bouts. She went unblemished against Columbia, Yale and Northwestern. 
Contact Joe Wirth jwirth@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Team earns frst win, falls to Virginia 
By KATIE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish earned their first victory of the season Sunday over William and Mary before falling to No. 1 Virginia. 
In the first match against William and Mary, the Notre Dame squad won five of their six singles matches and swept all three doubles matches to earn a 6-1 victory. 
No. 71 senior Stephen Havens and junior Sam Keeton were both able to earn 6-3, 6-1 victories at the No. 1 and No. 5 singles positions, respectively. 
Junior Casey Watt opened his spring campaign with a win at No. 2 singles, while sophomore Blas Moros also earned a win for the Irish at No. 6 singles. 
The Irish suffered their only loss at No. 4 singles when Jamie Whiteford defeated freshman Greg Andrews in a tight three set match. 
The Irish earned all three wins in the doubles lineup, starting with a team of two seniors, Havens and Tyler Davis, who won 8-4 at No. 1. 
Junior Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Spencer Talmadge won 8-5, while Greg Andrews and Watt won at No. 3. 
In the second match of the weekend against Virginia, the Irish only mustered one win at No. 7 singles by No. 122 Tyler Davis, and lost 9-1. 
The Irish played three tight doubles matches but did not pick up any victories. 
Havens fell at No. 1 singles to No. 27 Michael Shabaz 6-3, 
MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 

Underclassmen excel in competitive home meet 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame competed in the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
The team excelled through­out the event and notched a total of 10 first-place finish­es. It was a total team effort, but young talent carried a large portion of the load for the Irish. Freshman Jarrod Buchanon registered a time of 8.42 seconds to take first place in the 60-meter hur­dles. Freshman Patrick Feeney and sophomore Brendan Dougherty also car­ried some the weight. Feeney came in first in the 400 ­meter dash with a time of 
48.17 seconds, while Dougherty won the 500 ­meter dash in 1:05.31. 
Another underclassman taking home first place hon­ors was sophomore Jeremy Rae, who took first place in 1,000-meter race with a time of 2:22.53. 
Some of the standout per­formances by upperclassmen included wins by seniors Jack Howard and Ryan Gamboa. Howard, andindoor All -American, crossed the line first in the 800-meter run with a time of 1:52.64 and Gamboa ran the mile in 
4:08.98 in his first place per­formance. 
With first place finishes in the triple jump, pole vault and weight throw, the Irish shined in the field events as well. Junior Patrick Glass won the triple jump with a leap of 13.71 meters. Junior Kevin Schipper leapt 5.1 meters to capture first in the pole vault. Senior Greg Davis threw 17.68 meters to win the weight throw. 
The Irish will return to action Friday at the Indiana Relays at Indiana University in Bloomington. 
Contact Joe Wirth jwirth@nd.edu 
6-0. 
Watt won the first set of his No. 2 singles match against No. 3 Alex Domijan before dropping the next two to lose the match, while Moros played a tough match before losing 7­5, 7-5 at No. 6 singles to No. 105 Justin Shane. Senior Dan Stahl fell at No. 3 singles to No. 10 Sanam Singh. At No. 1 doubles Havens and Davis fell 9-8 (5), while Fitzgerald and Talmadge lost 8-7 (4). 
The Irish will return to action Friday against Oklahoma in Champaign, Ill. 
Contact Katie Grabarek 
kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 
Green Bay is early Super Bowl favorite 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS — Sports books in Nevada made Green Bay a slight favorite in the Super Bowl over Pittsburgh on Sunday night based on the Packers’ popularity among bettors during the past few weeks. 
The Glantz-Culver line made the Packers an early 2½-point favorite and put the total score at 45½ points for the Feb. 6 game in Arlington, Texas. 
Jay Kornegay, executive director of the race and sports book at the Las Vegas Hilton, said his book made the Packers a 2-point favorite and quickly moved the line to 2½ points as bet­tors gambled on Green Bay. 
“That steam engine is still rolling,” Kornegay said. “It’s going to be a very interesting Super Bowl because you have two heavyweights as far as popularity goes.” 
Oddsmaker Andrew Patterson of Las Vegas Sports Consultants said the firm, which provides betting lines to most casinos in Nevada, made the Packers a 1½-point favorite to try to encourage action on both teams. 
“I think it’s a good number, but a lot of us feel it’s a little high,” Patterson said. 
The Super Bowl is the most popular betting game of the year for Nevada casinos, which won almost $6.9 mil­lion on last year’s game as bettors wagered $82.7 mil­lion. 
That was up slightly from 2009, and Kornegay said he expects wagers to be up again this year because Green Bay and Pittsburgh have had strong followings. 
Pittsburgh is always popu­lar among bettors, and Patterson said that even though Green Bay was a No. 6 seed going into the play­offs, they started the season with the fifth-tightest odds among all NFL teams to win the title. 
More than any other game, sports books say the line on the Super Bowl is deter­mined by how teams per­formed in their most recent game. Oddmakers say aver­age fans bet far more money on the Super Bowl than fre­quent bettors — making common perception more important in setting betting lines. 
Both Pittsburgh and Green Bay got off to quick starts in their respective conference championship games on Sunday, then had to stave off rallies. 
Kornegay said that even though the games were simi­lar, Green Bay bettors weren’t likely to be discour­aged because they still won their bets. 
“Even though they didn’t have the flash and the charm that they had the first couple weeks, they still were rewarded by a cover,” he said. “They cashed, so they will continue to support them.” 


Monday, January 24, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
the Notre Dame bench, turned around, and launched a fade away 3-pointer with three seconds left on the shot clock. The shot somehow found the bottom of the basket to give the Irish their first lead since the opening minute. On the ensuing possession, Hansbrough beat his man off the dribble and rose up for a baseline dunk that gave the Irish a 62-57 lead and sent the Purcell Pavilion crowd into a frenzy. Hansbrough finished with a career-high 28 points to go along with six assists and five rebounds. 
“I just had the angle,” Hansbrough said. “I am capable of doing that. We work on that every day in three man weave. The opportunity got there, I just went up and finished it strong and it went in.” 
Marquette looked as though it might shoot Notre Dame out of the building, something it did in the teams’ first meeting this season, after it opened up an 11-4 lead with three consecutive 3-pointers just over three minutes into the game. Hansbrough kept Notre Dame in range by scoring the team’s first seven points, and scores from senior forward Tyrone Nash and freshman guard Eric Atkins tied the game at 11 with just over 14 minutes to go in the opening half. Marquette, how­ever, took a lead — a lead it wouldn’t relinquish until Hansbrough’s 3-pointer — on a layup by senior guard Jimmy Butler, and the Golden Eagles took a 45-36 lead into halftime. Marquette shot a blistering 71.5 percent from 3-point range in the period. 
After the half, Notre Dame switched into a 2-3 zone, which threw the Golden Eagles off their rhythm as they shot just 30 per­cent from the field in the second half and 38.5 percent from three point range. 
“It was no different than the Wisconsin or Georgia game where we’re down double digits,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We really don’t have any answers in man to man, so let’s try to change their rhythm a little bit. Their shots came up but in a little different rhythm. All of a sudden, it’s a little different shooting when the game pressure comes on you. Overall, I thought we did a good job know­ing who the three shooters were.” 
Early in the game, Irish fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis and senior forward Carleton Scott had trouble getting into a rhythm, combining for just two points. Atkins, however, bailed out the upperclassmen with 12 points in the first half, including two timely threes that kept Notre Dame with­in striking distance of Marquette. 
“I got open looks,” Atkins said. “Everybody on this team is confi­dent in me shooting the ball. I just took my opportunities.” 
Abromaitis and Scott heated up early in the second half, however, helping ignite Notre Dame’s sec­ond half run. Abromaitis hit a three with 17:59 remaining in the second half to cut the lead to sin­gle digits and Scott dunked home a putback just over a minute later that began to swing the momen­tum in Notre Dame’s favor. In his second game back from injury, Scott recorded a double-double with 11 points and 10 rebounds. 
“[We showed] perseverance,” Scott said. “We have to take the punches. They threw some punch­es. We definitely have to weather the storm. That’s what we did.” 
Notre Dame takes the court again tonight against No. 3 Pittsburgh at the Petersen Events Center. The game will tip off at 7 
p.m. and can be seen on ESPN. 
Contact Mike Gotimer 
mgotimer@nd.edu 

Irish freshman Jennifer Kellner rips a backhand during her match in the Eck 
Classic on Oct. 3. 
Kellner 
continued from page 20 
also contributed for the Irish. Kellner established her place on the team by going 6-1 in both sets, performing well in her first collegiate matchup. She and doubles partner Chrissie McGaffigan gained another team point by winning 8-2. 
“Everyone stepped up in 
our doubles matches,” Frilling said. “No one had really played with their part­ners yet and Jenny is a freshman and played five matches. She really just dominated so we’re really looking forward to the things she’s going to bring to the team this year. “ 
Matthews and Frilling won their doubles match 8-1 to gain the fourth point. In sin­gles, Matthews, the second-ranked singles player on the team, won against Breanne Smutko in a 6-3 and 6-2 vic­tory. 
“I think it was a good first match for us,” Frilling said. “We knew going in it was going to be tough, I think it was good that we have more confidence going into our matches this weekend.” 
Overall, Frilling has high hopes for the rest of the sea­son, but she knows that the team needs to focus on the matches ahead of them. 
“Everyone just kind of got into the groove of things,” Frilling said about this match. “They are only going to improve throughout the season.” 
The Irish are in action again at home Saturday against the Yale Bulldogs. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Williams 
continued from page 20 
formances of the year,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. “I was especially impressed with Rudy [Atang]. She looked great and this meet was really important for her, considering the fact that she is coming off of surgery in the offseason that limited what she was able to do.” 
In addition to the strong performance by the field participants, sophomore long -distance runner Rebecca Tracy squeaked out a win in the 1,600 -meter race, running the mile in a time of 4:42.14, besting her previous personal record by three seconds. With her per­formance, Tracy posted the second-fastest mile time in the nation, a mark her coach believes could be a qualify­ing time for the NCAA Regionals. 
“Rebecca is just so talented and is really beginning to find her stride, ” Connelly said. “She is starting to get confident that she can per­form at such a high level and it shows through [Saturday’s] time.” 
But the Irish are looking for more consistency throughout the running events, as only six of their runners finished in the top three in their events. 
“After seeing our finishes, I would say that we have to work on just about every­thing,” Connelly said. “There are some really big gaps and a little inconsistency in our performances that are pre­venting us from realizing our true potential.” 
The Notre Dame Invitational, which was held inside the Loftus Sports Complex, also featured squads from DePaul, Western Michigan and Michigan State that created an extremely competitive meet early on in the year, something that Connelly hopes to build on. 
“Being the first home meet this early in the year, we were really looking to see where we were at, gauge our performance and see how we could improve,” he said. 
The Irish will look to improve on their perform­ance when they travel to Indiana University to take part in the Indiana Relays, starting on Jan. 29. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastelum1@nd.edu 
” 
-


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2011 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Close loss shows Irish improvement 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish were edged out by a perennially strong Michigan State team on Friday by a score of 155.5­145.5, dropping Notre Dame to 5-3 on the season. But the slim 10-point margin signals a dramatic improvement from last year ’s 179 -121 drubbing at the hands of the Spartans (5-1). 
“Last year, Michigan State beat us by a lot more,” junior Petar Petrovic said. “This year was a pretty close meet, so on that side you can say that it was progress.” 
Irish coach Tim Welsh echoed Petrovic’s analysis, emphasizing how close and competitive Dame were provided by sophomore Kevin Overholt in the 50 -yard freestyle and senior Michael Sullivan in the 500 -yard freestyle. Senior diver Eric Lex placed first in the 3-meter board, registering a score of 375.60, the seventh highest in school history. 
Even with Notre Dame ’s many highlights, including winning the final three events of the meet, they were not able to match the point total of the Spartans. In one of the closest races of the day, Petrovic was bested by Michigan State’s record-hold­ing Jacob Jarzen. 
“I had a pretty good 100 backstroke and I lost in the last one or two meters, ” Petrovic said. “It was a really good race, but 


the meet a bad finish 
“Last year, Michigan
really was. cost me the vic-
Welsh State beat us by a lot tory.” acknowledged more, so on that side With minimal that a few focus paid to 
you can say that it
races that the past, the were decided was progress.” Irish look by less than a ahead to host-tenth of a ing the 
Petar Petrovic 
second gave Shamrock
Irish junior
t h e t o Invitational this 
edge the home team, which he described as one of the best Michigan State squads he’s seen in years. 
In the face of strong oppo­sition, the Irish put forth a strong showing, registering six individual victories on the night. Notre Dame’s effort was highlighted by sopho­more Bill Bass, who placed first in the 200-yard butterfly and the 400-yard individual medley. 
Welsh deemed the perform­ances of freshmen Frank Dyer and Colin Babcock in the 1,000-yard freestyle as “outstanding,” as Dyer won his event debut in runaway fashion and Babcock swam a personal best. Two more first place finishes for Notre 
McGraw 
continued from page 20 
boards at both ends and is looking to score more and be a bigger offensive threat.” 
Senior forward Becca Bruszewski was also strong in the post, scoring 19 points for the Irish. 
“I was happy with the rebounding,” McGraw said. “Overall our inside game is really coming along.” 
Notre Dame (17-4, 6-1 Big East) got off to a hot start offensively and let its defense carry the team the rest of the way. St. John’s (14-6, 3-4) shot 32 percent from the field for the game and was held to only 15 second-half points. 
The Irish went on a 26-10 run over the last 14 minutes of the first half and extended that run even further in the second half, increasing their lead to 56-25. 
The Red Storm scored only four points in the first 10 minutes of the second half as upcoming 
weekend. The Invitational is the lone meet remaining before the Big East tournament, and is both a homecoming for the Irish and what they hope will be a grand finale to the regular season. 
“It’s a big opportunity for us,” Welsh said. 
Petrovic delivered a more direct analysis of what the Invitational means for the Irish. 
“A good performance at Shamrock would give us a good introduction for the Big East so we can reclaim the title from Louisville this year,” he said. 
Contact Joseph Monardo jmonardo@nd.edu 
the Irish cruised the rest of the way. 
“I was really pleased the defense today in both the first and second half,” McGraw said. “We did a real­ly good job with what we wanted to do.” 
The front court was the strength of the Notre Dame offense in the victory. They displayed their offensive bal­ance this week as the guards led the way against Georgetown and the forwards dominated the post against St. John’s. 
The Irish played their sec­ond consecutive game with­out freshman guard Kayla McBride. The team announced before the game that she would not be playing for the remainder of the sea­son due to an off-the-court issue. 
Notre Dame will have the week off to rest before trav­eling to Villanova Saturday night. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Buckeyes 
continued from page 20 
the board, Irish senior center Ben Ryan made the margin two goals again with his fifth goal of the year. Freshman center David Gerths ended the scoring late in the second, making the tally 4-1. Johnson rebounded from a poor opening game to a great final one, ending the night with 29 saves. 
After the rocky game on Friday, Jackson was tempted to bench Johnson and start Summerhays on Saturday, but was persuaded by assistant coach T.J. Jindra to stick with the number one netminder. 
“T.J. mentioned it to me after having a meeting and talking about where they were as far as the season went that it was time to go with the guys that brought us and Mike has played well for us most of the season,” Jackson said. “He had a tough night [Friday]. Coming back with him [Saturday] was a good move.” 
While Notre Dame finished the Ohio State series strong, the opening loss knocked the Irish into second place in the CCHA behind No. 6 Michigan, who swept Alaska. The Wolverines are currently at 43 points in conference play on the season, two ahead of the Irish. 
Jackson, however, is not con­cerned with the big picture at the moment, but rather small steps. 
“We want to focus on the process and make sure that we’re just taking care of busi­ness each and every game and not focusing on the prize at the end of the season,” he said. “Because if we don’t take care of the little things, the big things will never come around.” 
One of the little things Jackson said he will stress is the Irish’s transition game. And with a tough opponent, No. 12 Miami (OH), coming to South Bend this weekend, it could play a critical role. 
“We just have to keep on focusing on the things that are based on transition, like stop­ping and starting, back-pres­suring hard, trying to outnum­ber people and create traps and try to get the opportunity to create turnovers. When that happens, we get on offensive transition,” Jackson said. “If we can take care of those things, then I think everything else will take care of itself.” 
The Irish meet the Redhawks at the Joyce Center in a critical CCHA showdown at 7:35 p.m. Friday and 5:05 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Sam Gans at 
sgans@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  
24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  
44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  

Monday, January 24, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Male deer 

1 Prefix with 34 Surface again, dextrous as a driveway 
5 Musketeer with 36 Extended family 
Porthos and Aramis 

37 1980s sitcom with an 
10 Bart Simpson'sbrainy sister extraterrestrial 
14 Detach from a 38 One-person source of performancedependence 

39 “___ you glad?” 
15 Musical beat 40 Rough-terrain 
16 Desertlike cyclist
17 Acupuncture, e.g. 44 Helper 

20 Goes “A-a-a-45 Oklahoma city choo!” 
46 Bolts (down) 

21 Tickles the fancy 22 Go up 49 Two-page ads 
23 The “A” in P.T.A.: 53 Samoan or Fijian Abbr. 
56 Quod ___24 Furnace, e.g. 

demonstrandum 29 “___ side are 
57 Andrea ___, ill-you on anyway?” 
fated ship 
31 Good name for a Dalmatian 58 Writer Émile 
32 “___ about had it 59 TV's warrior up to here!” princess 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A S P  I  C  C A R A  N A B S  
T H E N A T U R A L  A C R O  
W O R K P E R M I  T  S T  I  R  
T R O W E L  F L  I  P S  I  D E  
E R E B U S  E A V E S  
O P E L  V E L A Z Q U E Z  
C O A L B  I  N  T A U  D  I  P  
T O S S E S  C O P U L A  
S L Y  L E M  S H T E T L S  
S T E A D Y J O B  R Y A S  
C H A R M  C A P R  I  S  
L A R A  I  D E R  A B O D E S  
O R G S  E N D O F A N E R A  
S K E E  M A  I  N F R A M E S  
E S T D  S E N T  S L O S H  

60 What to call Spain's JuanCarlos 
61 15-percenters:Abbr. 
Down 
1 Fills with wonder 2 Like takingcandy from ababy? 3 First, second orthird, on a
diamond 4 Bank accrual 5 Motionless 6 More uptight 7 “Well, let me
think …” 8 Unlock, to abard 9 Popular teenhangout 50+ years ago 10 Gap in a
manuscript 
11 Pupil surrounder 
12 Trig function 
13 Fruit beverages 
18 Web mag 
19 “No more for me” 
23 Mighty Dogcompetitor 
24 Greek portwhere Prince Philip was born 
25 ___ Martin (James Bondcar) 
26 Bathroom floor installer 
27 Indiana senator Bayh 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 

Puzzle by Tim Darling  
28 Payment inMonopoly 29 “Kapow!” 30 Circle of angels? 34 Where a hot dogstand may stand 35 “Night” authorWiesel 36 Sideboard 38 Not flexible, asmuscles  39 Director Kurosawa 41 Airport near Tokyo 42 Nickname for Elizabeth 43 Live, as afootball 46 X-ray ___(novelty item) 47 Have concern  48 Open up ___ of worms 50 Work like ___ 51 Shoulder muscle, briefly 52 Mmes., inMadrid 54 Rank above maj. 55 Abbr. on a clothing saleitem  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 


LAURA McGINN
TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, January 24, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
What a difference a week makes. 
Just six days after a second straight blowout loss, No. 16 Notre Dame rebounded with a 80­75 comeback win over Marquette. 
The Golden Eagles (13-7, 4-3 Big East) took their largest lead of the game when senior guard Dwight Buycks hit a 3 in the open­ing minute of the second half to make the score 48-36. The Irish (16-4, 5-3), however, set off on a 17-5 run to tie the game at 53 with 14:20 remaining in the game. 
Just moments later Irish senior guard Ben Hansbrough managed to provide the spark that would ensure a Notre Dame victory. With the score tied at 57, Hansbrough chased down a loose ball as the shot clock ticked down. He grabbed the ball just in front of 
see IRISH/page 17 

Back on Track 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Freshman guard Eric Atkins protects the ball during Notre Dame’s 80-75 victory over Marquette Saturday night. Atkins kept the Irish in the game with 12 points in the frst half. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish open with a win at Illinois 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish started the season with a bang in a 5-2 win against Illinois last weekend. 
In their first tournament of the season, the Irish put on a good show against the Fighting Illini, winning three singles matches and two dou­bles matches. Junior Kristy Frilling led the way for the Irish, defeating Rachael White 6-4 and 7-5. 
“I played okay,” Friling said, “I was kind of nervous and I knew the girl I was playing and I knew it was going to be a tough match. It was good to get a win under my belt for the first match of the season.” 
Freshman Jennifer Kellner, captain Kristen Rafael and junior Shannon Matthews, 
see KELLNER/page 17 


HOCKEY 

No. 8 Notre Dame roars back to even Ohio State series 
ing badly 6-1. freshman Steven Summerhays responded well to it. There were Cal Heeter with 22 seconds left 
By SAM GANS 

Freshman center and team-in the third period. Senior a couple bad bounces,” Jackson in the first period, with Tynan 
Sports Writer 

leading point scorer T.J. Tynan Buckeye forwards C.J. Severyn said. “Saturday morning, the and junior defenseman Sean was the lone Irish player to find and John Albert then notched seniors took charge of the situa-Lorenz assisting on the play. Lee After a disappointing perform-the back of the net on Friday, the final two goals against tion and I give them credit for then scored early in the second ance Friday night, the No. 8 when he scored his 16th goal of Summerhays, creating the final refocusing the guys and getting period on the power play, off Irish rebounded strongly on the season off an assist from margin. them back on track, because we assists by junior right wing Billy Saturday to split their series sophomore defenseman Sam After a disheartening result, were a much different team and Maday and sophomore center with Ohio State in Columbus, Calabrese, to tie the game at 1-1 Irish coach Jeff Jackson said it played much better on Saturday Riley Sheahan. It was Lee’s 16th Ohio this weekend. late in the first period. Ohio was the team’s upperclassmen night.” goal of the season, tying him 
Notre Dame (16-9-3/13-6-1-1 State then rattled off three who responded positively, with The Irish came out firing in with Tynan for team best. CCHA) defeated the Buckeyes unanswered goals, leading to the rest of the squad following the second contest, outshooting After senior defenseman (13-10-2/8-8-2-2 CCHA) with a the removal of Irish sophomore their lead into the second game. the Buckeyes 14-6 in the first Shane Sims got the Buckeyes on commanding 4-1 victory on goaltender Mike Johnson from “Friday night, we had a couple period. Freshman center Anders Saturday, just one day after los-the game. He was replaced by bad breaks, and I don’t think we Lee beat junior Buckeye goalie see BUCKEYES/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish topple the Red Storm 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
For the second time this week the Irish proved to be too much for a ranked Big East opponent as they defeated St. John’s 69-36 in front of a sellout crowd. 
Senior forward Devereaux Peters led the charge with the fifth double-double of her career, all of which have come in the last nine games. She finished with 14 points and 10 rebounds in the game. 
“She’s a lot more active for 
one thing, ” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said about Peters after the game. “I think she is really hitting the 
see MCGRAW/page 18 


WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Young squad looks strong at Invitational 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish took to the track Saturday afternoon, they didn’t know what to expect from their young and rising squad. But by night’s end, the women’s team found hope in the field events, dominating the Notre Dame Invitational with three first place fin­ishes. 
Senior thrower Rudy Atang utilized her experi­ence to lead the Irish to first place in the shot put with a throw of 14.94 meters. Meanwhile, young jumpers sophomore Lauren Leniart and freshman Kelly Burke finished first in their respective events, with Leniart jumping for 5.47 meters in the long jump and Burke going for 11.37 meters in the triple jump. Senior Jasmine Williams also added two second ­place finishes with a long jump of 5.41 meters and a triple jump spanning 11.16 meters, helping the Irish sweep the triple jump with all three finishes in the top three. 
“I was extremely proud of how [the field events] got off to a really good start with some of their first per-
see WILLIAMS/page 17 






