
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Swarbrick addresses students 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor in Chief 
Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick stopped into both campus dining halls during lunch Wednesday to challenge and cau­tion students. 
“We have a really important foot­ball game the Saturday you return from fall break,” Swarbrick said to a full dining room in South Dining Hall, referring to the Oct. 22 game against USC. “I need two things from you to make that night suc­cessful.” 
Swarbrick acknowledged a hotly contested sentiment among Irish fans, commented on the energetic atmosphere, or lack thereof, of Notre Dame Stadium and encour­

see CAUTION/page 6 


ND supports Playing for Peace 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
This year’s Playing for Peace tagline, “Playing for Peace: From South Bend to South Sudan,” emphasizes the social justice initiative’s goal of bringing piece to both foreign countries and Notre Dame’s own com­munity. 
Playing for Peace, which began as a 3-on-3 basket­ball tournament last De­cember to promote peace­keeping in Sudan, has grown into an interna­tional program that uti­lizes a variety of sports to unite people within their communities. 

Kevin Dugan, man-own backyard. complish that,” he said. history by holding the first ager of youth and com-“While the initiative has Dugan traveled to South ever women’s clinic and munity programs for the international roots, we’re Sudan for two weeks this tournament in South Sudan. athletic department, said trying to make sure we past summer to hold a Play-On campus, Playing for this year’s tagline reminds don’t leave out the need to ing for Peace basketball Peace efforts in the com-Notre Dame of the need for develop and strengthen our tournament and clinic for munity have already begun, unity building efforts not local community, and to use Sudanese youth. only abroad, but also in its the platform of sports to ac-The program also made see PEACE/page 7 



Game Day Operations has success 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Director for Game Day Op­erations Mike Seamon said Notre Dame game weekends are following an upward trend. 
With the unusually warm weather, enthusiasm of fans and a 59-33 victory against Air Force, Seamon said the past weekend had all the in­gredients to be “first class.” 
“We couldn’t ask for bet­ter weather, there was just a great sense of enthusiasm and energy in the fans, you could just see it,” said Seamon, also the associate vice president of Campus Safety. 
Seamon said the Air Force weekend was even more suc­cessful than the Michigan State weekend. 
“The Michigan State week­end was a really good week­end … But the Air Force weekend, from top to bottom, was heads and shoulders above that,” he said. 
The temperature Satur­day was about 10-15 degrees higher than the average for the beginning of October, Seamon said, making the game day uncommonly warm for this time of year. 
“The weather we had this weekend was more typical for an early September game than early October,” he said. 
Seamon said the high levels 
see GAMEDAY/page 6 

Sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) said campus police are investigating a sexual assault reported to the de­partment Monday. 
Police notified students of the assault Wednesday eve­ning in an email. 
see ASSAULT/page 6 

Atheist group denied official club status 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
From the Basilica on God Quad to the chapels in every residence hall to the cruci­fixes in every classroom, the University’s Catholic identity is not easily missed. Not all Notre Dame students, howev­er, share that identity. 
Last year, senior Stephen Love and a few of his friends decided to form a club for “Atheist, Agnostic and Ques­tioning Students” (AAQS). 
Love said he felt the num­ber of students who don’t pre­scribe to organized religion warranted an official campus group. 

“I think the [nonbeliever population] is vastly underes­timated,” Love said. “I think people would be really sur­prised by how many students are interested.” 
The Student Activities Office (SAO) denied the club official recognition last year, citing a contradiction between Notre Dame’s mission and the in­tended purpose of the club. 
“A club’s purpose ‘must be consistent with the Uni­versity’s mission,’” the letter stated. “No organization, or member of any organization on behalf of the organization, may encourage or participate in any activity which contra­venes the mission of the Uni­versity or the moral teaching of the Catholic Church.” 
Love said the given reason­ing was inconsistent with the University’s policy toward other, existing clubs. 
“An easy rebuttal to that would be that we have a Jew­ish club, a Muslim club,” he said. “The only difference be­tween us and them is that we don’t assume the existence of the Judeo-Christian God. We just thought if those clubs were allowed, we would also be allowed.” 
In the club’s current pro­posed constitution, the mis­sion is specified as “to provide a forum for students to dis­cuss philosophical, scientific, religious and political topics free from [in]tolerance.” 
The constitution said the club would create this venue by holding regular discus­sions, inviting guest speak­ers to campus to participate in academic conferences and forums. 
Love said official recogni­tion is important because it 
see ATHEIST/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students participate in ConvergeUs forum page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Things to do in South Bend over break page 10 u Basketball media day  page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR FAVORITE 80’S MOVIE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Tyler Thomas  Bill  Leigh  Emma Venter  Lauren Milles  Rob Wahl  Vanessa Steger  
sophomore Knott  sophomore Knott  freshman Ryan  freshman Breen-Phillips  sophomore O’Neill  junior Farley  
“‘Top Gun.’”  “‘Top Gun.’”  “‘Back to the Future.’”  “‘Ferris Bueller’s Day Off.’”  “‘Ghostbusters.’”  “‘Breakfast Club’ or ‘Say  
Anything.’ It’s a tough decision.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
“Moss Man” fails to show up for trial 
HILLSBORO, Ore. — Au­thorities say an Oregon burglary suspect dubbed “Moss Man” failed to show up at his trial, and a war­rant has been issued for his arrest. 
Gregory Liascos of Port­land earned the “Moss Man” moniker after police say he was arrested in full-body camouflage last Octo­ber outside the Rice North­west Museum of Rocks and Minerals. 
Police say the 36-year­old Portland man had cut a hole in a museum wall and was trying to break in. 
Officers found a bike and a backpack, but they didn’t find the suspect until a po-
LOCAL WEATHER 

lice dog bit what appeared to be the ground. It was Liascos in a “ghillie” suit, a head-to-toe camouflage outfit used by military snip­ers to blend in with vegeta­tion. 
Liascos later said the whole thing was a mix-up, and that the outfit was a Halloween costume from his kids. 
Trap planned for wayward Pa. gator 
SLICKVILLE, Pa. — Zoo officials plan to set up a trap in hopes of captur­ing an alligator that’s been spotted on the shores of a Pittsburgh-area reservoir. 
Officials from the Pitts­burgh Zoo visited Beaver Run Reservoir in Slickville on Tuesday in hopes of spotting the reptile. 
Zoo reptile curator Henry Kacprzyk says he’s con­fident the wire trap will catch the alligator, which officials believe was a pet that someone turned loose. 
The alligator was first spotted about a month ago. Officials scrapped a plan to let it succumb to the cold weather after public out­cry. 
The Municipal Authority of Westmoreland County reservoir has about 25 miles of shore line. Kacprzyk says the trap will be set up on a sunny spot near where the alligator was last seen. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Professor Jack Rakove of Stanford University will give a lecture titled “Beyond Belief: The Radical Signifi­cance of the Free Exercise of Religion” today at 4 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 210. The lecture is part of the Mellon-ISLA Interdisciplin­ary Workshop titled “Re­ligious Freedoms, Modern Contexts.” 
Maria Otero, U.S. Under Secretary of State for De­mocracy and Global Affairs, will give a talk titled, “De­mocracy and Human Devel­opment” today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies audi­torium. Otero oversees and coordinates U.S. foreign re­lations on a variety of global issues, including democracy, human rights and labor; en­vironment, oceans, health and science; population, refugees and migration; and monitoring and combating trafficking in persons. 
The student group Friends of the Orphans will host a Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel and dinner in the LaFortune ballroom to benefit Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos orphan­ages today at 5 p.m. A group of children from the NPH home in Mexico will attend the event and will perform a dance at the dinner. Tick­ets for the dinner are $10 for students. 
The National Chamber Choir of Ireland will per­form classical Irish music to­night at 7 p.m. in the DeBar­tolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $10 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Emily Schrank Anna Boarini Tori Roeck 
Graphics 
Elisa DeCastro 
Photo 
Mackenzie Sain 
Sports 

Kelsey Manning Matt DeFranks Vicky Jacobsen 
Scene 
Alexandra Kilpatrick 

Viewpoint 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
Amber Galik 







CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Class participates in ConvergeUs 

By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Students in the Fundamen­tals of Business Thinking class participated in the inaugural ConvergeUs forum this week, a unique conference uniting mem­bers of the technology and service sectors. 
Students who participated in the forum used lessons from the classroom to understand and consider solutions for the promi­nent social concerns identified by the conference. 
Senior John McCabe said he was excited to participate in Con­vergeUS. 
“It’s neat to be forward-thinking and look for substantive change rather than being stuck just read­ing a textbook,” he said. “This is the only class where I have ever had so much outside classroom experience, and Professor Sucec [the Fundamentals of Business Thinking instructor] really tries to provide us with these learning opportunities.” 
Sucec said he was also excited about his class’s involvement with the conference. 
“Students have the opportu­nity to be involved in a project which comingles relevant busi­ness issues with critical social concerns,” Sucec said. “In addi­tion, they have the opportunity to come into contact with educators and successful entrepreneurs … (and) see how they attempt to deal with very prominent issues in the marketplace.” 

Senior Patrick Kelly said he en­joyed learning about new technol­ogy through the forum.
 “It’s a really good opportunity for us to understand social inno­vation and the leading technology within social innovation,” Kelly said. “There is a lot of new tech­nology, which is really exciting. It’s a very unique opportunity to view a relatively new initiative.” 
McCabe and Kelly, who are working together on a project for the class, have chosen to address the youth reading initiative. 
“Learning should be enjoy­able and fun, not something to be afraid of, and I believe the preva­lence of technology in the class­rooms will help bring back this enjoyment,” McCabe said. 
McCabe also said he embraced the approach of ConvergeUS to­ward solving social issues. 
“ConvergeUS is committed to a blueprint, which is different than a lot of nonprofits who have a vi­sion but not necessarily a means to get them to fruition,” he said. 
Kelly said the blueprint method would be important for the pair’s class project. 
“Our goal is to provide a blue­print with a creative approach, which would ideally lead to a significant and feasible solution to implement and address some of the social problems surround­ing the deficit in America’s youth reading programs,” Kelly said. 
Professor Charles Crowell, di­rector of the CAPP program, said he views the class’s involvement with ConvergeUS both as an im­portant opportunity for students in the class and the University’s social concerns in general. 
“It gives the class the oppor­tunity to partner, right now in a very limited sense but hopefully in a larger sense eventually, with a company geared toward solving social issues,” he said. “It’s a very important partnership and an­other opportunity for ND students to apply their time, talent and en­ergy to important social issues.” 
The partnership between Con­vergeUS and Notre Dame natu­rally developed from their shared social concerns, Crowell said. 
“If there ever was a University tailor-made to address these is­sues, it is Notre Dame,” he said. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 


Entrepreneur offers business advice at SMC 
By MADELINE MILES Connecticut. We decided we News Writer were going to set up shop in 
their backyard and see if we 
Empowering employees is can get some business.” a key to entrepreneurial suc-But Prosek said she still cess, said Jennifer Prosek, yearned for the “big, sexy PR founder and CEO of CJP Com-job” in New York City. munications, on Wednesday. In order to accomplish her 
The Saint Mary’s College dream, Prosek said she went Women En-on to earn her trepreneu r-Master of Busi­ship Initiative ness Administra­(WEI) hosted “Our employees tion at Columbia Prosek as the University, where 
understood how 
second Entre-she could net-
to develop new 
preneur-In -work with poten­
business, how they 
Residence on tial clients and 
make money and 
Tuesday and learn the busi­
how they fit into it.” 
Wednesday. ness aspect of WEI is a public relations. joint project Jennifer Prosek While attend-between the founder and CEO ing Columbia, 
Department of Prosek and her 
CJP Communications 
Business Ad­ministration and Economics and the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership. 
Prosek spent her time at the College speaking to students, faculty and members of the community about how to be a successful entrepreneur. 
“If I can teach people ‘the business of the business,’ I can immerse and teach them what it means to grow,” Prosek said. “In my firm, we teach all of our employees how to become more entre­preneur-like. Our employees understood how to develop new business, how they make money and how they fit into it.” 
Prosek graduated from Mi­ami University of Ohio with a Bachelor of Arts in English Literature. 
After graduation, she moved back to her hometown of Easton, Conn. and found a job at a local market research firm. 
Although Prosek said it wasn’t her ideal job, it did al­low her to come into contact with her current business partner. 
“We decided to start a firm in the suburbs of Connecticut in a one-room office,” Prosek said. “All of these financial institutions, like trading in­vestments, private equities and banks, were moving out of New York City and into partner opened 
an office in New 
York City and Prosek simultaneously served as the CEO while attaining her MBA. 
Since then, they have joined with a third partner and the firm has grown exponential­ly, she said. 
Prosek attributed the growth and success of the company to the model of en­trepreneurship in her book, “Army of Entrepreneurs: Cre­ate an Engaged and Empow­ered Workforce for Excep­tional Business Growth.” 
“As an army of entrepre­neurs, we treat each of our employees as they are entre­preneurs, and I’ve found it’s engaging to our employees and helped (us) to only grow as a company,” Prosek said. “It’s all about tapping into the inner-entrepreneur in every­one.” 
Prosek said Saint Mary’s students, particularly future entrepreneurs, should always be persistent. 
“There’s always going to be failure and rejection along the way,” Prosek said. “But I’m a big believer in fast fail­ure. I don’t spend a lot of time dwelling on failures. Scrap it and move on to the next one. Students need to know to nev­er give up.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 


STUDENT SENATE 

Senate discusses USC game expectations, sexual assault 
By MEL FLANAGAN Swarbrick, who also spoke coming back that day, come come more active in the fight Coccia and members of PSA News Writer in both dining halls during the back early,” he said. “As the day against sexual assault. recently launched their “4 to lunch hours Wednesday, said goes on, with 100,000 people Moss emphasized the close 5 Campaign” on campus. The 
Student Senate discussed students should arrive at the traffic is always the biggest cir-connection between alcohol name comes from the statistic preparations for the upcoming Stadium “game ready,” fresh cumstance.” abuse and sexual violence. that four out of five people aged USC football game, the relation-and alert. Although Seamon is predict-“On this campus last year, 18 to 30 support gay rights. ship between sexual assault and “We want to have a spectac-ing around 105 to 120 thousand every incident of sexual as-Coccia said another statistic alcohol and the “4 to 5 Move-ular evening a week from Sat-people will be on campus, he sault that was taken to ResLife that might affect more Notre ment” at its meeting Wednesday urday when we play USC,” he said there will be close to the involved alcohol on the part of Dame students is that among night. said. “We want a stadium full of normal amount of ushers and one or both of the parties,” Moss all ages nationwide, 73 percent 
Athletic Director Jack noise and excitement that helps University personnel around said. of Catholics are opposed to dis-Swarbrick spoke to the Sen-us win an important game. It Notre Dame. Moss said alcohol has in-crimination. ate about students’ actions and should be a day that celebrates “You won’t see a noticeable grained itself in campus cul-“However, the problem is that behavior during the USC night Notre Dame and its values.” increase in [Stadium person-ture, a fact that inevitably when polled, those same people game on Oct. 22. In order to encourage intelli-nel], but we’ll have enough brings up the issue of sexual believe only one-third of others 
Swarbrick said one of the rea-gent decisions before the game, there to handle the situation,” assault. agree with them,” Coccia said. sons Notre Dame has not hosted Swarbrick said the University Seamon said. “When you have alcohol con-The goal of the movement, he a night game in 21 years is be-will hold more activities around Seamon said the focus of the sumption and a physically per-said, is to move from four out cause of the incidents that fre-campus during the day, includ-day should be keeping an eye on missive culture bad things can of five people who support gay quently surrounded the games. ing additional musical acts and friends. happen,” he said. “You have a rights to five out of five. However, he hopes that will opportunities to interact with “Our biggest network is the very slim line between what is Coccia said the organization change after this game. the players. people around you who can take sexual aggression and sexual is currently working on the ally 
“We want to have the oppor-Director of Game Day Op-care of you,” he said. “Be a net-violence.” movement and attempting to tunity to do future night games erations Mike Seamon said all work for your friends.” Dunn said the key to com-show people that being an ally because it allows us to promote post-game Masses are going to He recommended the use of bating these issues is to hold makes them part of the major-the University so much more ef-become pre-game Masses. The Notre Dame’s help line. discussions on the connection ity. fectively,” Swarbrick said. Mass in the Basilica will be held On a game day, Seamon said between alcohol and sexual as-The next steps include a larg-
On a game day against a pop-at 4:30 p.m. students and visitors can text sault. er campus awareness plan and ular rival with a 3:30 p.m. kick-For students who are return-“Irish” to 69050, along with “What we’re really challeng-broader awareness such as ad-off, approximately 2.5 million ing to campus after fall break their location, and University ing people to do is to engage in dressing the nondiscrimination people watch the game on NBC. on Saturday, Seamon said NDSP personnel will be sent to that honest conversation certainly clause. 
With a 7:30 p.m. kickoff, be-would send an email to the stu-area. among closest friends first, and “You might think that in tween 5 and 6 million people dent body detailing the proce-“If there’s an issue, anything then to start to mix it up,” Dunn years past there have been pe­will watch, giving Notre Dame dures for driving onto campus. at all, whether it’s medical or said. titions and they do this every a much larger audience for its “The only thing I can say is you’re a visitor and need direc-The effort to raise awareness year and it’s never successful,” commercials, Swarbrick said. don’t come back late. If you’re tions, or there’s someone who’s needs to come directly from stu-he said. “But we have had some 
bothering you,” he said. “It dent leaders, Moss said, for they big changes in the last year.” comes straight to the command are the greatest influence on These changes include an center and we can dispatch re-their peers. on-campus office for the Core sources to you right away.” “It’s going to take a lot of ef-Council and changes to the sex-
Although senators inquired fort, a lot of sacrifice and a lot ual harassment clause. about the proposed student of you stepping up and saying “This is going to be a constant “green-out,” Swarbrick said the we’re going to change this cul-push,” Coccia said. “There’s go-University is not endorsing the ture, we’re going to change this ing to be an event every week, I wearing of a particular color. environment,” Moss said. guarantee it, even if it’s a small 
Following the game day dis-Alex Coccia, co-president of event it’s just to get the word out cussion, Dr. G David Moss and Progressive Student Alliance there.” Sr. Sue Dunn, co-chairs of the (PSA), then brought up another Committee on Sexual Preven-concern of the student body — Contact Mel Flanagan at tion, called on students to be-the “4 to 5 Campaign.” flanag3@nd.edu 


University alumni pray for life 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Alumni, parents and friends of the University are aiming to log 744 hours of unbroken prayer for human life as part of Respect Life Month and the Month of the Rosary this October. 
The initiative is known as prayLIFE, executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, Dolly Duffy said. 
“We’ve just been amazed at the outpouring from the Notre Dame family toward this goal,” she said. 
This is the first year pray-LIFE has occurred at Notre Dame, Duffy said. It was the inaugural project promoted by Beth Bubik, the Alumni Association’s new Life Initia­tives Program coordinator. 
Participants in prayLIFE register online to pray inde­pendently for an hour, Duffy said. 
“We have what’s called a prayer calendar,” she said. “They’ll log onto mynotre­dame.nd.edu and put in [their] first name [and] the state. It’s so impressive that we’ve had so many mem­bers of the Notre Dame fam­ily praying throughout the night. Right now it’s one per­son, one [time] slot.” 

The Alumni Association advertised prayLIFE to its approximately 270 Notre Dame Clubs worldwide, sent out news releases and spoke with other groups at Notre Dame, Duffy said. 
“The calendar is close to 75 percent full,” Duffy said. “So we have about 25 percent of the 744 hours still available. One of the great things has been as we get close to a day where there are some open slots, just out of nowhere the slots suddenly get filled be­cause people don’t want to see this continuous prayer broken.” 
Duffy said PrayLIFE is somewhat similar to the 40 Days for Life campaign against abortion, but focus­es on all issues of life from contraception to natural death. She said is unaware of any other university that has undertaken such a proj­ect. 
“I think our alumni are so excited to see us look at the issue of life across the entire spectrum and put together positive programs that allow them to participate as mem­bers of the Notre Dame fam­ily,” Duffy said. 
Duffy said that in the fu­ture, she hopes to begin working on prayLIFE ear­lier, create more publicity and possibly expand the on-line calendar to allow more than one person to register for each time slot. 
“I would also say that if students are interested in participating, we welcome them,” Duffy said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Saint Mary’s graduate pursues baking passion 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
What do the Culinary In­stitute of America (CIA), The Cooking Channel and Saint Mary’s College have in com­mon? Annie the Baker. 
A 1991 graduate of Saint Mary’s, Annie Baker is a pastry chef who specializes in cook­ies in Napa Valley, Calif. and has been featured on the show “FoodCrafters.” 
“My accounting background in combination with my baking and pastry certificate at the CIA Greystone and five and a half years experience as a pastry chef helped me to start my own little cookie company,” she said. “I am exactly where I should be and loving every minute of it.” 
Baker was an accounting ma­jor while at Saint Mary’s and said she, like many of her class­mates, ended up in Chicago af­ter graduation. 
“All the companies would come in from Chicago, so it was just an easy place to go,” she said. “About 10 of us ended up there and I worked in some of the big banks.” 
Baker worked in the finance sector and said she realized she really did not want to be like her coworkers. 
“People were there as lifers and they didn’t look happy,” she said. “It’s one of those things where you graduate in account­ing and it is a great position to have, but you get to the point where you are like, do I really want to do this for the rest of my life?” 
Baker realized that during her free time and days off, she was turning to her passion, baking, as a way to de-stress. 
“It’s kind of like my yoga,” she said. 
Because she was making so many baked goods, Baker be­gan to bring her sweet treats into the office. She said her co­workers loved them. 
“They would tell me I was in the wrong business and that I should start my own bakery,” she said. 
In 2009, Baker did just that. After leaving Chicago, where she had lived for 10 years, for the Napa Valley in Northern California, Baker attended the Culinary Institute of America and became a pastry chef. 
After graduation, she got a job at Mustards Grill. 
“When you’re in culinary school you go around to dif­ferent restaurants and differ­ent wineries and you get to try all these different things,” she said. “And every time I would have a friend come into town, I would say we have to go to Mus­tards.” 
Baker said she wanted to work at Mustards because they make the kinds of desserts she wanted to make. 
“I wanted to make a dessert that was comforting and good and just something that was good for the soul and had really good flavor,” she said. 
After working at Mustards Grill for about five and a half years, Baker decided to leave to try and figure out the next step in her career. It was then that she started to experiment with cookie recipes 
“I took a break and left Mus­tards,” she said. “Within a month I missed being in the kitchen so I started playing with this cookie. I’d always said how come the cookie doesn’t taste like the cookie dough? 
Baker wanted to make the cookie more doughy and less flat and crispy. 
“Finally, I got the cookie that still tasted like the cookie dough and is baked so it’s safe for you,” she said. “And that was really how it started, I was always looking for that perfect cookie.” 
After having her friends and colleagues taste the cookies, one of them encouraged her to sell her cookies at the Napa Farmer’s Market. 
“One of my best friends, was the president of one farmer’s market and said you are getting a booth and you are going to sell your cookies,” she said. 
Baker’s four original flavors have grown into 13. She now sells her cookies at two farm­er’s markets and through the website Foodzie.com. 
Due to her unique cookie that is more like cookie dough, Baker was even featured on The Cooking Channel. 
“I was on ‘FoodCrafters.’ They came out to Napa Valley and they filmed me. They spent the whole day… It was like a 10­hour day,” she said. “It was very exciting and I got a lot of online orders from it. “ 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 



Photo  courtesy of Annie Baker 
Annie Baker poses with her SugaRainbow cookies, one of the 13 different flavors she sells on foodzie.com and at farmers’ markets in Napa Valley, Calif. 

meals, Swarbrick reminded them 
Seamon said 4,200 people 
Atheist Caution 
that though it may be a night game, 
Gameday 

visited the tunnel Friday, usual behavior would be expected. 
which was more than 1,000 
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 “We haven’t had a night game 

continued from page 1 more than the Michigan here in a long time because people 
State weekend, and 1,300 would provide funding to make 
aged the Irish student body to are concerned about having a game 

attended Friday’s football this program a reality. 
takematters into its own hands. that late and the consequences it will 

of energy on campus were luncheon. “We want to form an official 
“I need your passion,” he said. “I have on our conduct,” he said. “You 

apparent as early as Fri-“That told us on Friday to club so we actually have offi­
travel around with our team, and can solve that problem. So help us 

day’s pep rally. start expecting some good cial meeting rooms and we’d 
our stadium is the quietest place we on that Saturday night to make the 

“It was a really good things,” he said. get some University funding so 
play. I want you guys on that Satur-loudest, most raucous, but safe envi­

positive pep rally,” he said. He said the flyover before we could bring in guest speak-
day night at least once to make USC ronment in college football.” 

“People were loving the the game and the recogni­ers to come in and spur de­
have a false start penalty.” 

weather.” tion of the marching band at bate,” he said. 
To close his two-minute cameo Contact Douglas Farmer at 

Saturday’s game was sold halftime contributed to the Love said this dialogue 
and let students return to their dfarm1@nd.edu 

out, with more than 82,000 energetic atmosphere. would be open to the religious 
people in attendance, “People loved the B-2 as well as nonreligious stu-
Seamon said. Bomber flyover, that was dents on campus. 
ing the assault could be part 

Police made 10 arrests kind of very special for us,” “We technically have a secu-
Assault 
of the campus community.” 

Saturday, director of Notre he said. “We’ve gotten a lot lar agenda, but we want peo-
The email warned stu-

Dame Security Police Phil of good feedback on that.” ple from all different faiths to 
continued from page 1 dents to be vigilant about 

Johnson said. Seven arrests Seamon said game week-come and discuss,” he said. 
the possibility of a sexual 

were made outside the sta-ends have been following a “That’s how you advance your 
assault. 

dium: two for public intoxi-“really good trend,” which ideas, by having them chal-
The victim told police the “Being aware of your own 

cation, one for battery on a he expects will continue for lenged.” 
reported assault was com-safety and watching out for 

police officer and public in-the remaining home games. In addition to the problems 
mitted by an acquaintance your friends are important 

toxication, one for battery, “Overall I would have to with the club’s mission state-
in a residence hall Sunday steps you can take to reduce 

one for battery and public say the energy and the en­ment, SAO’s rejection letter 
during the early morning. the risk of sexual assault,” 

intoxication, one for theft thusiasm was unbelievable stated that AAQS had failed 
“Sexual assault can hap-the email stated. 

and possession of marijua-for the weekend, [and a] to receive the appropriate 
na and one on an outstand-great springboard into the departmental approval. Ac-
pen to anyone at any time,” More information about 
the email stated. “College sexual assault prevention 

ing warrant. upcoming USC weekend,” he cording to SAO, the concerned 
students are more likely is available from NDSP at 

Johnson said at the stadi-said. department was Campus Min-
to be assaulted by an ac-ndsp.nd.edu or through the 

um, three more people were istry. 
quaintance, which means University’s Committee on 

arrested for public intoxica-Contact sara Felsenstein at “For this proposed club, the 
that the person perpetrat-Sexual Assault Prevention. 

tion. sfelsens@nd.edu approval of Campus Minis­try is necessary to be consid­ered a club,” the letter stated. “Upon review of the materials submitted, Campus Ministry indicated they would not ap­prove this club.” 
Love said he disagreed with the department desig­nation. 
“I don’t know where they got that, that Campus Ministry is the appropriate department,” he said. 
Love said, despite being de­nied club status, AAQS has been meeting independently and growing rapidly since last year. 
“We’ve been meeting under­ground this whole time,” he said. “When it started it was just a couple of friends and I, but within two or three weeks, just by word of mouth, it went from five to 10 then 30 to 40, and we haven’t even made an active effort besides one small advertisement in The Observ­er ... Now we have 40 or 50 on the email list.” 
With an established “unof­ficial” membership, would-be club vice president Love and president Brian Robillard re­applied for club status last month. The new application has received approval from the Philosophy Department and is awaiting SAO review. 
While Love is hopeful about the reapplication, he under­stands the University is within its rights to reject the club, for whatever reason. 
“We understand the Univer­sity is a private, Catholic insti­tution, so we’re not demanding anything ... we don’t have the right. We understand it’s with­in their power to do what they please,” he said. “We would just like to see the University give nonsectarian students a venue.” 
Despite this being Love’s last year to personally work toward official recognition for the club, he is confident the effort will continue after he graduates. 
“If we get rejected, we have enough underclassmen who will continue to apply and make changes based off what SAO suggests,” he said. “We’re willing to do whatever it takes to become an official club, within reason.” 
SAO was not available to comment on the matter. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


and accomplish amazing 
Peace 

feats. “This is a way student continued from page 1 government has worked on 
behalf of students and with student government social them, to reach out and unite concerns chair Ellen Car-other organizations within roll said. the University,” he said. 
Prior to the football game “Whether it be athletics against Air Force, several or the CSC, we’re working basketball players offici-in partnership with them ated a 3-on-3 basketball to advance the mission of tournament for South Bend Notre Dame.” youth at Irish Green. The men’s basketball 
“We were working with team will sponsor a Playing the Martin Luther King for Peace 3-on-3 basketball Center in South Bend,” Car-tournament right before its roll said. “The goal was to first home game of the reg-bring kids from the commu-ular season Nov. 12. nity to campus and let them This tournament will be see Notre Dame and further similar to the initial Play-the connection between us.” ing for Peace basketball 
On Nov. 5, Playing for event held last year, Carroll Peace will hold its first soc-said. cer tournament at Riehle Irish coach Mike Brey said Fields. The proceeds from he is excited to be involved the tourna-with another ment will be tournament donated to “The tournament will be after last United Way a mix of students and year’s posi­in South community members. tive experi-
Bend. The goal is for it to be ence. 
“That “It was 
a mini world cup.” 
tournament during our will be a mix basketball geared toward students and Bend.” out for human rights,” he 
Ellen Carroll 
of students season so it raising money for South Su-The initiative holds high said. “Students have hopes and commu-social concerns chair was refresh-dan.” hopes for international that go beyond the rote is­nity mem-ing to get Dugan said there will be events as well. Dugan said sues of convenience here.” bers,” Car-away from a second bas-the Sudanese Dugan said his position roll said. “The goal is for it the grind of practicing and ketball tour-“They want to grow it have already directing youth and com-to be a mini-World Cup.” playing and to do something nament in the expressed in-munity programs enables 
in South Sudan and 
In the weeks leading up that has such a positive ef-spring that terest in ex-him to concentrate more on 
they want to invite the 
to the soccer tournament, fect,” Brey said. will focus more panding the the development of Playing 
basketball team from 
Carroll said the Center The event will feature on community tournament for Peace. 
North Sudan. It would 
for Social Concerns (CSC) performances and a speech outreach. in Sudan. “I’m in a position to help 
be a beautiful thing, 
will plan related academic from Mike Hebbeler, direc-“The spring “They want grow the initiative,” he said. events in order to unite all tor of Student Leadership one will take South Sudan hosting to grow it to “We’ve been able to roll out facets of Notre Dame, from and Senior Transitions for place actually North Sudan in next all differ-a few successful events and academic to athletic to ser-the CSC, and the proceeds in the com-summer’s Playing for ent states in we really feel the initiative vice. will be donated to Catholic munity, at the Peace tournament.” South Sudan, can take on a whole new 
Student body president Relief Services. Martin Luther and they momentum.” Pat McCormick said con-“These events all fit in King Center in want to in-South Bend children will 
Kevin Dugan 
necting these characteris-with this year’s [slogan] South Bend,” vite the bas-participate in spreading 
manager of youth and 
tics is an important part of ‘From South Bend to South he said. “We’re ketball team the word about Playing for the Playing for Peace mes-Sudan,’” Carroll said. going to take community programs from North Peace to the area through sage, that Notre Dame is a “Youth basketball was a Playing for Sudan,” he booths set up at every home place where nontraditional South Bend focus, soccer is Peace off campus and run said. “It would be a truly basketball game. allies can come together both and basketball is more it on the west side of South beautiful thing, South Su-“Catholic social teaching 
dan hosting North Sudan tells us peace is not just in next sum-about a lack mer’s Play-of conflict, ing for Peace it’s about 
“Notre Dame was a 
tourna-justice and 
place where we spoke 
ment.” respect of 
McCormick out for civil rights and human dig-said Notre now it is going to be a nity,” Du-Dame has place where we speak gan said. been a Uni-out for human rights.” “We feel versity that like Playing has stood up for Peace 
Pat McCormick 
for justice is very ap­
student body president 
in the past, plicable to and Playing parts of the for Peace is South Bend a great forum to continue community that need a lit-that in the future. tle more justice, peace and 
“Notre Dame was a place harmony.” where we spoke out for civil rights and now it is going to Contact Mel Flanagan at be a place where we speak mflanag3@nd.edu 






page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, October 13, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Interhall football: my new and unexploredfrontier 
From the time I was five until my senior year in high school, I played the same three sports: soccer, hockey and baseball. I was reasonably good at them and never felt compelled to switch things around. While I Conor Kelly might have looked curiously at a sport Sports Writer like lacrosse or wished that one time I might be the one in pads under the lights on Fri­days, I loved the sports I did play and had no desire to change. 
And then I came to Notre Dame. 
A month ago, I became my interhall football team’s back-up (read: seldom-used) outside linebacker and running back. At 5’ 6” and 170 lbs, I may not be Brian Kelly’s prototype for the Dog linebacker position, but I get to stand on the sidelines, give the real football players high-fives as they leave the field and occasionally get in the game and run around a little bit. Sometimes I even collide with the other team’s ball carrier in my confusion and make him fall down. It’s a lot of fun. My one sack and handful of carries in the year will be the athletic highlights of my fall, no matter what happened in interhall baseball. 
While I’ve always been a big foot­ball fan and have played countless numbers of aggressive games of snow football, I had never encountered the sport in an organized fashion until this year. When we finally got our pads from RecSports, it took a whole lot of self-control not to start an impromptu hallway game. 
Football is my new favorite sport, and I’m somebody who really likes sports. I obsessively watch videos on YouTube and have gained a newfound appreciation for what I see on TV on Saturdays and Sundays. It turns out that there is logic behind the shakily-drawn diagrams that commentators super-impose over video replays, and I’m slowly learning it. 
Besides now being able to tell friends and family that I’m playing football at Notre Dame, the excitement of doing something new and actually being somewhat decent at it brings me back to when I was younger and sports were a new and unexplored frontier. I look forward to going to football practice each week not because I particularly enjoy standing around listening to people argue about blocking schemes, but because it is fun, exciting and new. 
I don’t think I’ll ever be as good at football as I am at the sports I’ve been playing for the last 15 years of my life, but for these three months in the fall, being able to conquer a new challenge is incredibly fun. For me, even this change of pace is exciting. Imagine the possibilities of skydiving, acting, basket-weaving or spelunking. 
Except I don’t think Notre Dame of­fers interhall cave exploration. And I am pretty sure the winners don’t get to play at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Conor Kelly at       ckelly17@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What can fall break do for you? 
Perhaps you, dear Notre Dame stu­dent, have had the same debate with your parents that I seem to have regu­larly with one of my sons whenever he has some free time. Perhaps because you’re closer in age to my son than to your parents 
or me, you will  Kate Barrett  
take his side. So  
even though I, like  Faithpoint  
John the Baptist,  

may simply be “a voice crying out in the wilderness,” I will again take the position that having a break (be it fall, Christmas, spring, summer or even just a day off) shouldn’t simply become a reason to turn into a complete slug. 
I am not opposed to relaxing, and I am the first to encourage my busy and perpetually tired teenagers to try to sleep in, go to bed earlier or take a nap when they have a chance. However (you knew there would be a “however” … go ahead, roll your eyes. I get that a lot), your fall break week, starting tomorrow, is a wonderful opportunity. It’s a gift of time worth more than a raft of reruns of “Two and a Half Men,” hours of trolling through YouTube or defeating the Master Chief on Halo 3. 
Next week, even allowing for a gen­erous 10 hours of sleep each night and coming back to campus early for the USC game, you’ll still have approxi­mately 100 hours  without a single lecture, lab or seminar to attend. So 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

go ahead and spend a few of them on the couch with the remote, but just a few. Every moment in time is a gift God has given us. That same generous God has also given each of us a variety of talents and interests, the enthusiasm to pursue those interests and great sense of curiosity. During a week in which you will probably enjoy an unusual amount of free time, will you share those talents with others? Pursue a new interest you haven’t had time for yet? Learn a new skill or teach one of your favorites to someone else? Spend time with a person you haven’t seen since the summer? 
Remember the gospel story in which the Pharisees asked Jesus whether or not the Jews should pay taxes to the occupying Roman forces? Knowing they were trying to trap him, Jesus used the Roman coin with its picture of Caesar to remind them — and us — of the impor­tance of striking a balance. “Repay to Caesar what belongs to Caesar and to God what belongs to God,” Jesus told the plotting Pharisees, silencing them. 
He recognized, as we all must be care­ful to do, that we ought to be intentional about the way we live in the world.  For it is precisely in the world that we meet God — in that which we can touch and taste and smell; in the people we meet and talk to and argue with and serve. 
Similarly, we can ask ourselves how we will be intentional in the ways we spend the gift of time God has given us, especially during a week in which we will have more of it to offer than usual. Imagine if all the thousands of you who have received the gift of extra time over break next week spent even a portion of it volunteering at your old grade school … visiting a home-bound neighbor … sending an email to your congressman about an important local need in your community … cleaning up a park nearby … taking a younger brother or sister out for ice cream … trying out a new form of prayer you’ve wondered about … sorting canned goods at your local food bank … helping an elderly person clean up their garden for the winter … learning how to cook a new dish with your mom or dad. 
Our time really does belong to God, and he has given it to each of us so that we will be stewards of a prized gift. To give to God what belongs to God, we can find the balance to which Jesus calls us. Make sure to leave some time to relax and catch up on your sleep next week, and consider also the many extra hours which will be yours to spend, as St. Paul said, as a “work of faith and labor of love and endurance in hope of our Lord Jesus Christ.” 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Nothing is permanent in this wicked world — not even our troubles.” 
Charlie Chaplin British actor, director & screenwriter 


WEEKLY POLL 
Over Fall Break I plan on ... 
Going to Appalachia Going home Partying with state school friends Going to Vegas, baby! 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Thursday, October 13, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Common courtesy 
Dear Mr. Davis, ate, especially on a football weekend 
In response to your letter “Game when there are many families and Weekend Anthems” published on Oct. alumni on campus. Playing music 11, I would like to point out that Mr. from dorms contributes to the excit-Labate was by no means imposing on ing atmosphere on campus and is a your right to freedom of speech and ex-traditional part of Notre Dame football pression. There is a difference between Saturdays. However, when you turn up blaring music out your window and the volume of your music to a certain blaring music in your room. Of course point, you’re no longer the only person you are more than welcome to listen to listening. You’re playing your music to whatever music you want in the comfort an audience and must keep that audi­of your own room at volumes that don’t ence in mind when making your song disturb the people living around you. selections.  This is called being considerate. I would ask anyone on campus that 
In the original letter, Sorin was only chooses to play music out of his or her used as an example. but it makes no windows to select music free of pro-difference where you are on campus. fanities that is appropriate and repre-Every dorm, whether or not it’s close sents Notre Dame in a positive way. to the Basilica, represents our student body and our University. I would hope Nicole McMillan that anyone in any dorm who chooses sophomore to blast music out of his or her window Farley Hall should select songs that are appropri-Oct. 12 
Do it for the kids! 
As co-Presidents of the Friends of the and supporting the children of NPH to Orphans at ND/SMC student organiza-the Notre Dame community. On Thurs­tion, we are writing to you with a chal-day, Oct. 13, a group of pequeños from lenge. the NPH Mexico home will be traveling 
First, a little background: Friends to campus as part of a special visit to of the Orphans at Notre Dame (FOTO) the United States. was founded in 2009 to support the We will be celebrating Mass at 5 Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos (NPH) p.m. in the Dillon Hall Chapel, fol-orphanages, which strive to provide a lowed by a fiesta benefit at 6:30 p.m. permanent home for orphaned, aban-in the LaFortune Ballroom. The fiesta doned and disadvantaged children in will feature a Mexican dinner, des-Latin America. FOTO focuses mainly serts by the Notre Dame Culinary on the Honduras home and its affiliated Appreciation & Outreach Society, a Holy Family Surgery Center, founded by performance of traditional Mexican ND/SMC alums, Dr. Peter Daly and LuLu song and dance by the children, a Daly, R.N. During the year, FOTO works visit from the Undertones and more! to support NPH through fundraising and Tickets will be available for sale at the awareness efforts. In addition, we also door tonight for a donation of $10. sponsor two non-medical trips and one So, please accept our challenge of medical trip, the Global Health Seminar, welcoming NPH into your lives. DO IT each year to the NPH Honduras Ranch FOR THE KIDS! and Surgery Center. Paz y bien, 
Through our work with FOTO and our time at the homes, we can both person-Erin Wright ally attest that the children of Nuestros junior Pequeños Hermanos have truly changed Pangborn Hall our lives for the better.  Their joy and Oct. 12 love for life, despite the seemingly in­surmountable hardships that they have Johnny Romano faced, is truly amazing. sophomore 
This week, we would like to extend Dillon Hall the wonderful opportunity of meeting Oct. 12 
Here come the Irish? 
Mr. Davis, the inspiring “Here Come the Irish” 
There was enough that baffled me to the more rowdy and fun yet still in your Viewpoint (“Game weekend Irish-tinged Dropkick Murphys at your anthems,” Oct. 10) that I’m not quite disposal. Really, not like the absence of sure where to start in a reply. one song is going to kill the mood. 
So I’ll begin with your beginning Finally, you suggest that the request and a little note on hyperbolic lan-to not play a vapid and obscene song guage. You speak of the “horror” of an represents an attack on your individu­objectively reasonable request to tone ality. All I can really say to that is if you down the music to which you subject feel your best outlet for self-expression all passers-by. Horror is something is to force inappropriate music on the caused by grave events, events of game weekend crowds of families, importance. This request is not one of children and tourists who populate God them. Quad and very probably don’t want to 
Second, you suggest that the crude hear it, then I am really, really con-music you are playing epitomizes an cerned for you. appropriate Notre Dame game week-Peace, end song. Can you think of absolutely nothing better? Nothing of the great Michael Nokes swath of Notre Dame-related songs, junior Irish music or typical college rock? Stanford Hall Seriously, you have everything from Oct. 12 
du Lac noise policy 
This letter is in response to the re-handbook and discovered the following: cent and ongoing discussion concern-“Because of the disruption, playing mu­ing Sorin Hall (alias Sorin College) sic or noise coming from student rooms and its practice in the area of music to the outside is prohibited.” selection and amplification. I would While I do not necessarily agree with like to add two brief and somewhat this policy and it is clearly not very contrasting statements to the letters strongly enforced, I would like to alert of Messrs. Labate and Davis. the more rules-minded residents of 
1.
 During my time at our dear Sorin (and other dorms) of its existence. University, I rather enjoyed the music However, for the reason I gave above that often emanated from the win-(see no. 1), I would rather wish for the dows of Sorin. Furthermore, as far policy to be changed than for the music as I remember, I never heard it in the — the soundtrack of the quads — to Basilica, even though I spent a good cease. deal of time there as a member of the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir. Timothy Gotcher 

2.
 Unfortunately, du Lac has a alumnus different opinion on the subject. I Class of 2010 consulted the online version of the Oct. 12 


10.22.11 

MAY I HAVE YOUR ATTENTION decision making. PLEASE: Remember: You won’t get to see the 
This is the Leprechaun Legion of the Irish win under the lights if you are Notre Dame Student Section. Students: experiencing a blackout! please keep your USC pre-game activi-Be game ready. Be safe. 10.22.11 ties as safe as possible by pre-gaming with caution, courtesy and common Nathan Trembley sense. Leprechaun Legion 
Take your time, stay alert and above president all, do not miss the game due to poor Oct. 12 
UWIRE 

Public must not fault Wall Street 
Many American reforms have made their mark on history through protests 
— women’s suffrage, civil rights and the ongoing gay rights movement, to name a few. While the ones mentioned Liz Beras are all legitimate, the current “Oc-Washington cupy Wall Street” Square News efforts are far re­moved from their predecessors. It is time for the crusade against Wall Street to come to an end; protesters can either find a valid cause or go home and cease their disruption. 
Protesters’ chants of “Wall Street, Wall Street, Occupy Wall Street” may seem catchy, yet those supporting the protest must educate themselves about the issues. The New York Occupy Wall Street demonstrations have proven to be chaotic; the protests are cause for hundreds of arrests and consequently the New York Police Department has increased officers on duty to contain the crowds during the protests. 
Wall Street is a scapegoat for the problems protesters list on their signs. But the financial services industry aids our economic growth and is a major contributor to the community at large. In 2010, Morgan Stanley’s Low Income Housing Tax Credit Investments worked with partners to create 1,000 affordable housing units across the country. Also in 2010, JPMorgan Chase and Company gave over $150 million to non-profit or­ganizations in grants and sponsorships. Many other financial services firms spend a great deal of time and money to fund projects that help the community. 
In harsh economic times, financial services is one of the few industries that has not claimed a “hiring freeze.” The role of the financial services industry is invaluable; raising capital is key for companies, small and large, to carry out their service and mission. Companies are unable to fund projects without the help of Wall Street. As Americans, we have the freedom of assembly, but there is a fine line between using this to rally for a unified purpose and abusing this privilege by aimlessly parading down Broadway. 

Occupy Wall Street is best described as a vaudeville show — entertainment comprised of parts that are not cohe­sive. The goal of Occupy Wall Street is unclear, despite its widespread growth in other cities around the globe. There is, however, a list of absurd demands listed on Occupy Wall Street’s official site. Some of these demands include “open border migration,” “guaranteed living wage income regardless of em­ployment” and “immediate across the board debt forgiveness for all.” While this all sounds great in theory to the demonstrators, need I remind everyone that money does not grow on trees? The listed demands are opening doors for a multitude of problems. 
Many of the issues addressed in Oc­cupy Wall Street are irrelevant to the work of the bankers they target. One of the signs held up in protest stated, “I paid more in taxes than GE last year. I am the 99%.” For one, the fact that GE paid less in taxes than this individual seems like a matter pertinent to the IRS, not the major banks. Also, protesters are failing to acknowledge that we as a country are the 1 percent. Although we are not in the ideal financial situation as a country, we are still among the best in the world. The key to our country’s problems is not “class warfare” through protests, as stated by GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney. 
It is time that Occupy Wall Street va­cates the premises. There are methods to having a voice in the conversation of our country’s politics, but the current disorder in the protests is not the way. 
This article originally ran in the Oct. 11 version of the Washington Square News, the newspaper serving New York University. 


RESTAURANTS 
Fiddler’s Hearth 
You may have seen Fiddler’s on your way to Finny’s or Feve, but downtown South Bend’s other “F” should not be passed over. From its authentic pub atmo­sphere with Anglo-Irish food and drink to its live Irish music and old school rugby jerseys adorn­ing the walls, the “F” in Fiddler’s must stand for food and fun. The pub is always packed and the at­mosphere is infectiously lively, so when looking for a place to eat, drink and be merry this Fall Break, stop by Fiddler’s. 
Quincy’s Café 
Walking distance from campus and with free WiFi, Quincy’s Cafe is the perfect Fall Break spot to get a jump on some homework, hang out with other stranded pals and drink a cup of some of the most delicious coffee around. Thursday is open mic night, and Quincy’s will have other events throughout the week as well. Its very close proximity to frozen yo­gurt deliciousness at Let’s Spoon isn’t the most terrible thing ever. 
Sunrise Café 
Found on Lincoln Way West, this hole-in-the-wall restaurant inhabits a tiny building, but more than makes up for its small size with delicious food and heaping portions. With friendly service and inexpensive prices, Sunrise Café is the perfect place for a breakfast treat when the dining halls aren’t open. 
Ari’s Grill 
This delightful Greek res­taurant is located walking dis­tance from campus, so it’s per­fect for people without access to cars. The friendly atmosphere truly reminds you of the cha­otic nature of Mediterranean restaurants and the authentic food helps. Gyros, spanakopita and saganaki (pan-seared Greek cheese) will delight your taste buds. Ari’s is perfect for the cash-strapped college student with a student discount and $5 meal deal on Wednesdays. 
Ciao’s 
Good Italian food is an amaz­ing find. And after tasting the real thing while studying abroad, it’s often hard to go back to American-Italian cuisine. Ciao’s Restaurant and Pastry Shop, however, brings authentic Italian cuisine straight to South Bend. Tucked away near Madison Cen­ter, the warm brick building gives the delightful restaurant an intimate atmosphere. Ciao’s also has a mouthwatering array of pastries available during the day for the perfect pick-me-up. 
Elia’s 
Family-owned and student-ap­proved, this restaurant special­izes in baklava, falafels and ke­babs. Invite your friends to join you for one of South Bend’s more unique dining experiences and they’ll forever be grateful. Go out for a reasonably-priced plate and head home both happy and full. 
Uptown Kitchen 
You may be familiar with its brother restaurant, The Mark, but check out where it all began with a visit to Uptown Kitchen. While everything on the menu is good, you won’t regret ordering from their breakfast section, no matter what time of day it is. 
Gino’s East 
You may already be planning a trip to Chicago over the week off, but if not, head over to Gino’s East and sample some of Chi­cago’s very own deep-dish pizza. Not for the faint of heart, Chi­cago-style pizza is loaded with cheese, tomato sauce and any other topping you can imagine. Gino’s East is the most authentic Chicago-style pizza this side of, well, Chicago. 
MOVIES 
Dollar movie theater 
Paying for stuff is the worst. And movie theaters are just so gosh darn expensive. Nobody wants to pay $12 for a movie and $200 more on concession stand treats. While you may not be able to find a free admission movie theater, there is a pretty cheap option in town — the Cinemark 6 dollar theater. All tickets are just $1, and the movies are usually recent releases that have just left the mainstream theaters. Cin­emark 6 can be found at 6424 North Grape Road in Mishawa­ka, across the street from the University Park Mall. 
“Harry Potter and the Deathly Hal­lows: Part II” 
“Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II” is playing at the dollar theater (in some circles known Cinemark Movies 6) this week on Grape Road, which is a must-do over Fall Break. Maybe even a third, fourth and fifth time must-do. 
“Captain America” 
“Captain America” is also play­ing, which might be worth the dollar if you’ve got nothing else to do. If you’ve got a movie that somehow slipped out of theaters the first time, or one you want to take a second run at, this is a perfectly cheap way to spend an afternoon. 
MUSIC 
Umphrey’s McGee at Club Fever 
With a week of freedom and the first night game at Notre Dame stadium in over 20 years, you probably won’t feel ready to head back to class and hit the books right away. Celebrate the last night of Fall Break with a concert by former Notre Dame jam band Umphrey’s McGee at Club Fever on Sunday, Oct. 23. Tickets are only $25.00 in ad­vance, $27.00 the night of the show. You must be 21 or older to enter. 
FASHION 
Flourish Boutique and Gallery 
If there is one thing that can take any fashionista’s mind off academic challenges, it’s shop­ping! And Fall Break is always the perfect time to assess your wardrobe and add key pieces for the upcoming winter season. While you might think South Bend offers nothing in terms of fashion havens, there is one bou­tique which stands stilettos and fedoras above all the rest: Flour­ish. 
Owned by Saint Mary’s alum­na Vanessa Cooreman Smith and conveniently located on Cleve­land Road in Granger, Flourish offers basic and statement pieces at affordable prices. You can find Herve Leger imitation bandage dresses alongside bejeweled jeans and animal-print blouses. Smith has an eye for color, and the store carries accessories to match every item on its prem­ises. Peruse their offerings on their Facebook page before mak­ing the journey and your shop­ping extravaganza will be even more worthwhile! 
ACTIVITiES 
Leininger Farm Corn Maze 
You’ve probably been to a corn maze before, but not like this one. Each year, Leininger Farms sets up a corn maze with a dif­ferent shape — in the past, they made maps of the World and the US as guides for their maze. This year, they’ve made a map of In­diana with its major roads and have created stations to test your knowledge of Indiana history. Admission to the maze is only $5, with a canned food $1 off special on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The maze will even be open late on October 15 and 28 for flash­light nights! Don’t forget to visit the pumpkin patch while there to satisfy your fall and Hallow­een needs. 
Playing with Pumpkins 
Speaking of pumpkins, Hal­loween isn’t complete without a few Jack-O-Lanterns decorating your house or dorm. Head out to any of the local farms or markets to find locally grown pumpkins, perfect for carving and display. If the mood strikes you, save what you don’t use and make a homemade pumpkin pie. If that seems too much of a challenge, there is no shame in just buying the ingredients at the store. Don’t forget to pair it with apple cider, though. 
Apple picking in Michigan 
Nothing signals the beginning of fall fun like apple picking. A simple Google search will yield many options for farms to visit and most are no further than an hour away. They offer apple pick­ing, as well as pumpkin picking and other delicious fall treats for purchase, like caramel apples. An apple picking adventure is the perfect way to break up a Fall Break spent on campus and to bond with friends while bring­ing home some healthy, delicious treats. 
Beer tasting at Granite City Brew­ery 
Strictly for those 21 and over, Granite City Brewery located at University Park Mall offers a wide selection of home-brewed beers sure to please every taste. Call and see if they offer a formal beer tasting, which allows you to try the various types of beer available. If not, go with friends and order some of each, testing a variety until you find the one you like best. 
South Bend Farmer’s Market 
Scene has already raved about the South Bend Farmer’s Market this year, but Fall Break is the perfect time to check it out. With everything from locally grown produce to handmade pizza dough, the Farmer’s Market fea­tures the best South Bend has to offer. Wander the various stands and sellers and scope out the best looking, smelling and tast­ing food you can find and then bring it all home and whip up the most exciting dinner you’ve had in ages. If you can’t be home for Mom’s cooking over break, then this is the next best thing. 
Visit a winery in Michigan 
If you’re bored and 21, take a quick drive up to Michigan for a taste of the local wine. Visit Michigan’s Travel and Tourism site, www.michigan.org, for a list of the many wineries scattered throughout the state. 
Go to the Indiana Dunes 
Fall Break may be the last time the sun shines in South Bend, so try and take advantage of the fi­nal sunny days by heading to the dunes one last time this year. 
There’s no better way to de­stress after midterms or gear up for the USC game than by frol­icking on the sand with some of your closest friends. Bring a football, baseball, Frisbee or soc­cer ball and just relax. Be sure to check the weather before you go, though — no one wants the changing Indiana weather to rain on his or her parade. 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphics 


Thursday, October 13, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

There are certain experiences that forever bond you with your friends. It’s that first fresh­man dorm party where you met. It’s the laughs you share at 2 a.m. as you’re both stressing over exams and papers. It’s the care packages from parents you always share. And it’s the road trips. 
The bonding experiences on long road trips are endless. For one, there are hours of driving to fill with chatter about life, love and Lady Gaga’s new song on the radio that you just don’t get. There are cornfields to gawk at for hours. There are hi­larious license plates to read. There are awesome places to stop for food and rest … and entertain­ment. 
Inevitably, you will need to leave your car — possibly multiple times depending on the length of your trip. Whether you need a bathroom break or some real food, you’ve got a lot of choices. That is, unless you’re traveling east on I-80 through Pennsylvania — then you’ve got to get to Scranton before you reach civilization and food. 
But there’s another reason to stop: for your san­ity. Hours in a car can affect your mood and crack the strongest nut. Inane objects become hilari­ous, the road begins to blur and your mind just stops functioning.  At this point, you should not only consider switching drivers, but also getting out of the car for at least 20 minutes to recharge. 
And this is where RoadsideAmerica.com comes in.  This website is a treasure trove of random, interesting and just plain wacky sites to visit on or near major American highways. It provides excellent suggestions for those random places to stop when you hit that wall, places for you to walk around, regroup and experience the offbeat cul­ture of America. 

In order to use the site to its potential, you need to have your route planned out beforehand. On the site, you search the states you are traveling through, and then receive lists of towns and the attractions found in them. Though this takes a little extra planning on your part, it’s worth it. 
This site made my road trip across southern Missouri something I could actually tell people about. Who crosses Missouri? And who cares? No one, until I tell them about the eight-ball-shaped water tower we saw. Or the store of award-win­ning brats, sausages and cheeses. Or the town of over 100 bed and breakfasts and the most deli­cious German food I’ve ever had. 
Are you headed south? Maybe you’ll find the Statue of the Bird Girl in Atlanta, Ga. Or the tool box-shaped building in La Porte, Texas. Like fire­houses? Check out the only underground one in the world in Colorado Springs. No matter what sort of random things you enjoy, you’re sure to find stops that will entertain you. 
The stories of the hilariously offbeat places you stopped could tighten bonds with the people you love. What better way to cement a friendship than to visit the Home of Sliced Bread in Chilli­cothe, Mo.? Or the World’s Largest Ball of Twine in Cawker City, Kan.?  
Make your road trip exciting and forge new memories with your friends. Visit RoadsideAm­erica.com and see a side of America you never new existed. 
Contact Mary Claire o’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

MLS needs to pay up 
To some, American soc­cer sounds like an oxymoron. To others, it is at the same level with the WNBA and the Denny’s PBA Tour. But to those real football fans, it is an en­tertaining disappointment that doesn’t know its full potential. 
Yet the biggest limitation of Major League Soccer is not the lack of interest from the American public — just take a look at the Portland Timbers crowd. 
And its not a lack of the talented home-grown players ei­ther — both FC Dallas mid­fielder Brek Shea and New York defender Tim Ream are in their early 20s and have garnered interest from Euro­pean clubs. 
In fact, the biggest restraint to the growth of the MLS is the MLS. 
Long gone are the days of signing famous has-beens who are over 30-years old, much to MLS Commissioner Don Garber’s chagrin. Too long have teams relied on signing players far past their primes to make a quick buck while sacrificing long-term gain and global respect — see Thierry Henry, Rafael Marquez and 

Andrew Gastelum 
Sports Writer 



Cuauhtemoc “The MLS needs make less than 1 Blanco. to spend money percent of Eto’o’s For the MLS to be successful.” yearly salary. 
about attracting the world’s best young talent? The answer to that question is the same thing that led one of the world’s most popular players, Cameroon striker Samuel Eto’o, to play for An­zhi Makhachkala in Russia. 
It certainly wasn’t for a beachfront property or the chance to play in a more competitive league. There are 28.8 million green rea­sons why the former Barca and Inter superstar went to the middle of Russia. 
Eto’o’s salary guaran­tees him $28.8 million per season, which is $10 million more than what Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo makes at Real Madrid. And that is to go to Russia, where there is no New York or Los Angeles to feed the superstar ego. 
The MLS needs to spend money to be successful. If the league sticks a huge contract in front of a prospect who struggles to make money at the European academies, then the league’s talent pool will still rely on foreign tal­ent, but it will be younger foreign talent that can build the league into a global su­perpower. 
But this is where the ad­ministration gets involved and hinders its own potential by instituting the desig­nated players rule. The rule limits all MLS teams to three players that can make over $400,000 per year, which 
means the major­
ity of MLS players 
to advance, teams need to go overseas and sign young, top-level players like Spanish midfielder Cesc Fabregas, who just signed with Barcelona, and French mid­fielder Samir Nasri, who was picked up by Manchester City. 
But that is much easier said than done. The question is: How can an American team draw European players to start their careers in the MLS, not finish them? 
Kids all around Europe grow up playing soccer in the streets and playgrounds at a very young age and are immersed in a soccer culture from the very beginning. The dream is to play for the Real Madrids and Manchester Uniteds of the world, not the Vancouver Whitecaps or the Houston Dynamo. 
So how does the MLS go This rule single­
handedly prevented 
Chelsea striker 
Nicolas Anelka 
and Brazilian icon Ronaldinho from coming to the MLS in their primes and creating a buzz around the league that has never been seen before. 
Whether Garber knows it or not, the rule is limiting the potential of a league that has already come so far since the 1994 World Cup was held in the United States. 
And that is the difference between Europe and Ameri­ca. The fans are here, there just needs to be a reason to go see a game. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
NFL 

Rob Ryan preps Cowboys for Pats 
Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas — New Cow­boys defensive coordinator Rob Ryan has a blueprint that has worked to defeat Tom Brady and the Patriots. 
That game plan Ryan used 11 months ago while with Cleveland to hold New England to 14 points might pale in com­parison to what he might try to do in only his fifth game with Dallas. 
“Pretty much, it’s the kitchen sink, to put it lightly,” defen­sive end Kenyon Coleman, who like Ryan came to Dallas from Cleveland this season. “We were probably (in Cleveland) doing a fourth of what we’re doing now. ... So I don’t really think you’re going to get a good beat on what we’re doing by just looking at the Cleveland game.” 
With Pro Bowl players like DeMarcus Ware and Jay Ratliff, and leading the NFC in total defense, Coleman said the Cowboys are already doing so much more in Ryan’s system than he ever remembers doing in Cleveland the past two sea­sons. 
So just how imaginative will Ryan be this week in a person­al rematch against NFL reign­ing MVP Brady and the Patri­ots? 
“I’m hoping it’d be definite­ly fiction,” said safety Abram Elam, another first-year Cow­boys starter who came from Cleveland. “Don’t give him anything that he can look at and know what we’re in.” 
New England has scored at least 30 points in all 13 of their games since that 34-14 loss to Cleveland last November. 
The Cowboys haven’t defeat­ed New England in 15 years. 
OK, so there have been only three meetings in that span — the last two with Brady. They play Sunday for the first time in four years. 
But the Cowboys are ready for the chance at another vic­tory against New England, as is Ryan. 
“He’s excited,” Elam said. “We’re relishing the chal­lenge.” 
Against the NFL’s best of­fense. The Patriots average 495 total yards a game. 
The last Cowboys’ victory in the series was in 1996, the season after the Cowboys won their third Super Bowl title in four years. That was an un­precedented championship stretch that New England has since matched. 
Ryan was the linebackers coach for the Patriots’ first two championships, both when Brady was Super Bowl MVP. Ryan then was defensive co­ordinator for five seasons in Oakland and two in Cleveland before going to the Cowboys. 
“I enjoyed the years that Rob was here. He obviously comes from a great football family,” Patriots coach Bill Belichick said. “Football is important to him, he’s very knowledgeable, smart guy.” 
New England is playing at home against one of Buddy Ry­an’s twin sons for the second week in a row. 
Head coach Rex Ryan and the New York Jets lost 30-21 in Foxborough last Sunday. But be sure Rob Ryan has spoken this week to his brother, and Rex is certain to provide any­thing he can to help the Cow­boys beat his division rival. 
“No comment,” Ware said, smiling as he walked away from a group of reporters. “I know the answer to that ques­tion, but I’m not going to an­swer.” 
Rob Ryan didn’t talk to re­porters Wednesday, when be­cause of overnight rain the team moved its practice from the Valley Ranch facility to Cowboys Stadium. 
Brady has won both of his career starts against Dallas, the last four years ago when he threw for 388 yards and five touchdowns at Texas Stadium in a matchup of undefeated teams. In a 12-0 victory at home in 2003, Brady threw for 212 yards on 15 of 34 passes — the 44 percent completion per­centage the third-lowest in his career when he has attempted more than 10 passes. 
Against Ryan and the Browns last year, Brady was 19 of 36 for 224 yards with two touchdowns. He was sacked only once, but seemed out of sorts at times as Cleveland kept moving around and using different formations — even using only one down lineman. 
Cowboys coach Jason Gar­rett said there are different aspects of what Ryan did with Cleveland that could come into play this week, but stressed that things are different. 
“Certainly our defense is different than Cleveland’s de­fense, and I would say the 2010 Patriots are different than the 2011 Patriots,” Garrett said. “But you do go back and you watch games. ... You put your plans together and hopefully they work out, and you can make some adjustments dur­ing the game. Things are dif­ferent.” 
Including what Ryan is doing with his players. 
“Me being with Rob for 2 years and seeing what we’re doing now, even myself, I’m be­ing asked to do things that two years with Rob I didn’t do,” Coleman said. 
What hasn’t changed is Ry­an’s message about Brady. 
Ryan knows how much time the quarterback spends studying and watching film. The coordinator keeps tell­ing his players that they have to stay ahead of him by doing the same thing, studying film and recognizing formations to know what Brady and the Pa­triots will be trying to do. 
“I wish I could tell you our game plan. It’s a lot of stuff go­ing in this week,” Ware said. “We watched a lot of that Cleve­land tape. .... But you have to get out there and do it.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR RENT  NOTICES  TICKETS  
Cheap 2 room studio $440  Email  DaveMichiganTEKK@gmail.com  Transportation to airport $7 per person in groups.  USC GAs desperately needed. Top $$   
includes utilities Large 4BR $840. 10 mo lease, 3 mi S of SMC.  Mark 574-360-6480  574-277-1659  
call Dave 574-286-1384  

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?
 Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Today, I found out that the hospital I was born in has been made into 
a mental institute. None of my friends seemed suprised. MLIA. 
Today I got a text from a random number. I have no idea who it is and neither do my friends or family. The message said “Hey, are you going to the mountains today??” Well no, random stranger, I’m afraid I’m not going to the mountains. But you have fun now. MLIA 
When I was little I thought my grandpa was so cool because he traveled so much. We were always picking him up in different 
states in the northeast. Turns out the nursing home got sick of him 
escaping, and refused to find him 
anymore and left it to us. I knew awesome ran in the family. Hlia. 
Today was the 11th birthday of my twin brothers. I only sent one of them a Hogwarts acceptance letter. MLIA. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles defeat Olivet, prepare for tournament 


By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles swept Olivet in all three sets Wednesday to roll to a 3-0 win during their Dig for the Cure event. The convincing victory gives the Belles momen­tum going into the upcoming UW-Oshkosh Tournament this weekend. 
The Belles took an early lead in the first set and maintained it throughout with a strong show­ing from ju­nior outside hitter Stepha­nie Bodien captain and setter Danie Brink led the team with 30 set assists, a match high. 
The Belles return to action Friday at UW-Oshkosh, where they will kick off a span of four matches in four days. From there, the tough week continues as the Belles gear up to face con­ference rival Alma on Oct. 18, followed by senior night on Oct. 21 against Trine and Hope on Oct. 22. 
“We’re definitely going to take 
it one game 
at a time, 
one point at 
a time,” Kus­
and freshman outside hitter Kati Schnei­ “It’s definitely a time where they can take a bit of a breather  chel said. “We need to play our game. We  
der, who dis- and reconnect as a  already  know  
played aggres­sive attacking t h r ou g h ou t  team, which will only make us stronger.”  what’s com­ing our way. We can’t be  
the game.  The Belles secured  Toni Kuschel  focused on eve r y t h i n g  
the win 25-15.  Belles coach  they’re  going  

In the sec­ond set, Olivet hung tight with the Belles, ty­ing the game eight times before Saint Mary’s took definitive con­trol to win 25-18. 
“We came out a little slow in the second set, but we were able to put some tough serves over the net,” Belles coach Toni Kus­chel said. “Both of their middles are really good and we served them tough.” 
In the final set, Olivet only once managed to get within one point of the Belles advan­tage before Saint Mary’s pulled ahead thanks to some key kills by Christi Wyble. Kuschel cred­ited all of her hitters in the 25-15 victory. 
“We had so many people re­ally step up and hit well tonight,” Kuschel said. “All of our hitters really connected.” 
Wyble hit .625 in the match with five kills. Bodien led the squad with 11 kills and hit .500 throughout the game. Junior to do, we just 
have to get 
out there and 
play.“ 
With so many games in such a short period of time, Kuschel said she is making sure her team remains focused. 
“We have a lot of team activi­ties planned over the next week,” Kuschel said. “Having a lot of structure and staying together as a team are definitely key as­pects to remaining focused.” 
Kuschel said the break from school provides a good oppor­tunity for her team to come to­gether and reach its peak perfor­mance level. 
“It’s definitely a time where they can take a bit of a breather and reconnect as a team, which will only make us stronger,” Kus­chel said. 
The Belles will face UW-Osh­kosh in Oshkosh, Wisc., on Fri­day at 5:30 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at  kheit@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary’s readies for pre-regional meet 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles return to MIAA competition Saturday as they travel to Oberlin, Ohio for a pre-regional meet at Oberlin College. Last weekend, Saint Mary’s hosted several of the program’s alumnae for the annual Alumnae 5K, but the trip to Oberlin should see a return to more serious com­petition for the Belles. 
The pre-regional is one of three events that will count toward the team’s overall MIAA standings, along with the MIAA Jamboree in which 
the Belles finished seventh, 
and  the  upcoming  MIAA  
Championships.  
Top  runner  and  senior  

captain Joanne Almond will lead Saint Mary’s against the rest of the conference, with backup from senior Joanne Almond. The Belles will also look to up-and-coming soph­omore Collette Curtis, who placed third for Saint Mary’s at the Sean Earl Invitational on Oct. 1. 
The women’s division race will begin Saturday at 11 a.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at  cbernard@nd.edu 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 

ND heads to Wisconsin for meet 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Both the men’s and women’s Irish squads will face plenty of tough competition as they travel this weekend to compete in the Wisconsin Adidas Invitational, a meet that features a combined 37 ranked opponents between the two fields. 
“It’s basically the National meet in October,” men’s senior captain Jordan Carlson said. “Everyone who’s anyone will be at this race, outside of a few teams. It will be a real test of our strength. This will be a great opportunity to practice running in a big race with a lot of good teams.” 
Senior Rachel Velarde, cap­tain of the women’s squad, agreed that the race would be a good measuring point for her team. 
“The competition will be fierce,” Velarde said. “With 19 ranked teams and 42 teams overall, it will be the biggest field we race against this year and the most competition out­side of nationals. We will use the great competition to our advan­tage and run some fast times.” 
Both captains said the key to this meet would be running as a unit. The women’s team has never run this course before. Regardless, Velarde said she believes the team will perform well. 
“As a team, we are going to have to get off the line fast and find each other in order to work together,” Velarde said. “It’s a large field so it is vital for us to find each other and work together. I have heard that the course is nice and that we have the opportunity to run fast.” 
Carlson said he thinks the course is well-suited for his team as well. 
“We will adapt very well to this course because it is suited to runners with a lot of speed and that’s exactly what we have on this team,” he said. “We still need to focus on running as a group for the first few miles in order to help each other out when the race starts to get tough.” 
The teams will use this race to prepare them for other im­portant upcoming races includ­ing the Big East championships and nationals. Both captains said their team goal is to place in the top-10. 
“I think we have the oppor-tunity to run really well, and we will compete against some teams that we’ll see again at Big East and regionals,” Velarde said. 

Carlson said the team would use this race as an indicator of future performances. 
“Since this race is very com­petitively similar to the national meet, it would be a good indi­cation of our potential for the national meet down the road,” Carlson added. 
The women will take the course in Madison, Wisc., Fri­day at 3:20 p.m. The men’s race is set to begin at 4 p.m. 
Contact laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
ROWING 
Irish to compete against top teams in Boston 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish travel to Bos­ton this weekend to compete in the 47th annual Head of the Charles Regatta, a pres­tigious race that boasts an array of the country’s top teams, including last year’s national champions. 
“We want to go out there and race the best that we can,” junior Joanna Poinsatte said. “We have some pretty stiff competition, with teams like Virginia, Harvard, Princ­eton and the reigning na­tional champions, Brown, in our race, but I think we can go and surprise some people with how fast and powerful our team is, not to mention we have an undeniably strong will power.” 
Poinsatte explained that she is particularly motivated for the race because racing on the Charles is held in such high esteem. With so many of the country’s top rowing teams based in and around Boston, the Charles is the epicenter for American colle­giate rowing. 
“The Charles is a presti­gious race, so it is important that we show our strengths early, not only to set our­selves up in a good position for the rest of the year, but also to encourage invitations to next year’s race,” Poinsatte said. “Personally, this is my sixth year rowing and I have never been to the Charles, so I am very excited to go. I have heard that it is an incredible atmosphere for both rowers and spectators alike.” 
Sophomore Olivia Kacsits said this is an important race, not necessarily for NCAA rankings, but for letting the rest of the country know that Notre Dame is a force to be reckoned with. 
“Our main goal is to put ourselves out there as a team that will put up a fight,” Kacsits said. “We’ve missed NCAAs by only a couple sec­onds for the past couple years and we want to let the rowing world know that we intend to be a threat this year. Even though fall races don’t count toward scoring for NCAAs in the spring, performing well early definitely sends a mes­sage.” 
Poinsatte said every mem­ber of the team is ready and willing to pull her weight in the race. 
“As far as personal expec­tations for this weekend, the only big ones are to pull as hard as possible and to go as fast as possible and that ap­plies both to my teammates and myself,” Poinsatte said. “We have worked really, re­ally hard to get to the Charles and I don’t think any one of us wants to be the weak link in the chain.” 
The race will begin at 8 
a.m. in Boston, Mass. on Sat­urday and continue through Sunday. 
Contact Joe wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame to face DePaul, Hawaii during fall break 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will look to finish out the first half of Big East play with a victory over DePaul and a winning conference record before traveling to Hawaii for fall break. The team will fly to the “Aloha State” for more than just sand and surf, as Notre Dame will take on No. 8 Hawaii in back-to-back matches. 
On Friday, the Irish (10-6, 3-3 Big East) travel to Chicago hoping to beat DePaul and fin­ish above .500 for the first half of its conference matches. The Blue Demons (4-15, 1-5) have struggled so far this season, but according to Irish senior outside hitter Kristen Dealy, Notre Dame will need good concentration to take down De-Paul. 
“There’s always that thought in the back of your mind, but I think as long as we focus we will be alright,” Dealy said of overlooking the Blue Demons. “Games like these are the best because you know you will probably win, and you get to see how well-rounded the team is. Hopefully everyone can play and contribute and it will be a good team win.” 
Freshman middle blocker Jeni Houser echoed Dealy’s sentiment and said she isn’t worried about the Irish slip­ping up against the inferior op­ponent. 
“I’m not really too worried about [overlooking DePaul],” Houser said. “I think even if we do start to falter we’ll pick it up immediately.” 
Dealy said the team is look­ing forward to the Hawaii trip after DePaul, but the Irish are focused on finishing off the Blue Demons first. 
“I’m sure everyone is really excited for Hawaii, but in the Big East it seems like anything can happen,” she said. “We’re not going to overlook DePaul.” 
With matches against the Warriors (15-1, 5-0 WAC) Mon­day and Tuesday, Notre Dame does not have much time to pre­pare after its conference match Friday. Dealy said the Irish have spent part of this week’s practices looking ahead to a talented Hawaii squad. 
“We know Hawaii is much tougher competition,” she said. “We haven’t had much of a chance to scout them, but I do know they hit out of the back row a lot. It’s really detrimental to your team if you can’t defend shots out of the back row, so we’ve been incorporating some preparation for Hawaii this week. Ordinarily we wouldn’t do that, but there’s not much time after [DePaul].” 


The Irish play DePaul on Fri­day at 7 p.m. CDT and take on Hawaii at 7 p.m. HST on both Monday and Tuesday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s looks to rebound against MIAA opponents 
By KATIE HEIT the Belles this season. Mary’s (8-5, 4-5 MIAA) has fallen The Belles will first take on opportunity. Joyce said he has Sports Writer “It’s a tough stretch, four games in several close games to confer-Alma (11-2, 7-2) on Oct. 15. The made a few adjustments in his in eight days,” Belles coach Mi-ence opponents. Joyce said he two teams last faced one another coaching style to help his team Saint Mary’s will have a dif-chael Joyce said, “all against hopes to turn that luck around in Sept. 22 in a game that the Scots come out on top the second time 
ficult round of games over fall teams who beat us earlier in the the second round of games. claimed 1-0 in a tough defensive around. 
break, facing four conference op-year.” “The fact that it falls during fall match. “Your strategies change a little 
ponents in eight days, all four of After starting off the season break is nice, so we don’t have any From there, Saint Mary’s will the second time you face a team 
whom have recorded wins over strong with a 5-0 record, Saint other distractions,” Joyce said. face Adrian (10-4, 8-2), who is because you know all the ins and currently leading the MIAA con-outs of how they play, what they ference, on Oct. 18.The Belles do, where they are weak,” Joyce lost a 4-1 decision to Adrian on said. “Hopefully we can make Sept. 17. Just two days later, Saint those adjustments and get re­Mary’s will face Kalamazoo (7-sults.” 6, 6-4) before rounding out the While Joyce has confidence that week against Calvin (6-8, 6-4) on his squad will be able to compete Oct. 22. in every match, he emphasized Joyce said he isn’t focusing on the importance of defense against the week as a whole, but rather the series of tough opponents. He each opponent individually. said that goalkeeping in particu­“We’re just going to take them lar will be a focus for the week. one game at a time,” Joyce said. “Our goalkeepers will have to “We played all of these schools play mistake-free and probably close and had either a close game come up with a big save here and or long stretches of game where there,” Joyce said. we matched up well.” The Belles begin their fall break Every opponent the Belles will jaunt Saturday against Alma in face this week currently holds a Alma, Mich., at noon. higher ranking in the MIAA than Saint Mary’s, which Joyce looks Contact Katie Heit at  at as a challenge, but also a great kheit@nd.edu 



MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish to open season with Dennis Stark Relays 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After an offseason of ex­tended core training, the new-look Irish squad is anxious to plunge into the pool for its first test this season as it takes on 
Michigan,  Texas  Christian,  
Valparaiso  and  Oakland  this  
weekend.  

The Irish will begin competi­tion Friday with the 47th annu­al Dennis Stark Relays and con­tinue with a dual home meet the following day. Michigan and Texas Christian are set to compete both days of the races, and Oakland will replace Val­paraiso on Saturday. 
“It’s probably the fastest field ever assembled,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “To that extent, that makes it a very tough meet. It’s exciting to race somebody besides ourselves, so we’re looking forward to this weekend a lot.” 
Notre Dame’s roster includes 16 freshmen—12 swimmers and four divers. Welsh said this weekend will provide the inex­perienced team with several challenges. 
“That is a whole lot of fresh­men. This is a brand new team for us,” he said. “The first thing we’re looking for this weekend is to say, ‘What is this new team all about?’ We’re going to look to see what their racing [and] competitive [attitudes are] like and the facts of how fast we go. What’s our team likely to evolve into in the course of the season?” 
After graduating eight se­niors, the young team focused primarily on core fitness dur­ing the offseason. Welsh said the Dennis Stark Relays will bring in some of the best com­petition Notre Dame will face this season, and he is excited to discover the strengths of his 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
to force stuff.” 
Abromaitis will miss the first four games of the season as he serves a four-game suspension handed down from the NCAA. He did not play in the regular season his sophomore year in an attempt to retain a year of eligibility, but did play in two exhibition games before the season. By NCAA rules, those exhibition games should have cost Abromaitis the season of eligibility. 
“I’ll definitely be working hard that week or two, and take it as an opportunity to keep working on my game and lead from the bench and be in good shape for Mis­souri,” Abromaitis said, referring to Notre Dame’s first road game in Kansas City, Mo., against the Tigers. 
In Abromaitis’ absence, a large portion of the Irish bench will have a chance to audition for a consistent spot in the rotation, if not the fifth slot in the starting lineup. Leading that group will be junior guard Joey Brooks and sophomore guards Jerian Grant and Alex Dragicevich. Junior for­ward Tom Knight and freshman forward Pat Connaughton are also expected to earn playing time this year. 
“All nine of those guys, we are going to need them this season be-new team. 
“This weekend is our opening two meets of the season. It’s our first chance to see this team,” Welsh said. “Every fall season is fitness-based, so whether in the weight room, pool or on dry land, core fitness increases volume, involves kicking and breath control. We’ve had a bunch of tests and what we’ve done is core-fitness based. How fit are we?” 
With a new team chemistry and makeup, the Irish are full of energy and eager to find out what this team is all about, Welsh said. 
“There is fresh energy in this group,” he said. “Not only nu­merically, but one of the things we’re about to do is leave be­hind what normally is at a higher level. We can see some fresh energy going into this ev­ery day. Our old relationships are different now.” 
Irish senior Marshall Sher­man and junior Chris Johnson have been given the opportu­nity to lead this inexperienced team as co-captains. The Irish veterans have done their part to assure the freshmen that, while this meet is a crucial step on the Irish schedule, it will not make or break their bright fu­tures, Welsh said. 
“Everybody cares. This is a very important weekend,” Welsh said. “There [are] an aw­ful lot of first-time swims and first-time dives, and we know to be excited about it. It’s the beginning of the world and not the end of the world, but we want to begin well.” 
The Irish will compete in the Dennis Stark Relays Friday at 5 p.m. and return to action Saturday at 11 a.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
cause there are unknowns from [spots] four through nine,” Brey said, including in his grouping starters sophomore guard Eric Atkins and junior forward Jack Cooley, both of whom played ex­tensively last season. “I hope it gives our group really a clear head to go and get better as a team.” 
No matter who fills out the starting lineup or who the first players off the bench are, Brey’s goals remain the same as they do every other season: compete in the Big East and earn a berth to the NCAA tournament. 
“We are going to take some punches, and then can we be in a position to earn an NCAA bid?” he said. “That’s kind of the game plan that we have used annually.” 
Brey said he realizes this may be the last season that the first goal is as it has always been. With the departures of Pittsburgh and Syracuse to the ACC in com­ing years, the Big East could look drastically different in the rela­tively near future. 
“One of the good things about the Big East is that there is always enough power in the schedule to play your way into the [NCAA] tournament,” Brey said. “Our league is great, and there is a lot of talk about, ‘Is this the last year of this grouping with all these teams?’ Maybe it’ll go out with a bang.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at  dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Hoyas 
continued from page 20 

past four matches, the team has locked down its back line, a pos­itive that has Irish coach Randy Waldrum feeling much better about his team. 
“We haven’t given away silly goals like we had been earlier in the year,” he said. “You have a chance to win games as long as you keep the opponent from scoring, so I am happy with the shutouts. More important is we haven’t given away silly mistakes, and that’s what has boosted their confidence.” 
The team has indeed been able to cut down on its oppo­nents’ chances despite playing with a significantly shuffled lineup. Due to a number of in­juries to the team’s veterans and leaders, Waldrum has been forced to play some less expe­rienced freshmen, like defend­ers Sammy Scofield and Taylor Schneider, in key positions. 
For now though, it seems the system, but they have a lot of technical and skillful players like we do. The key is to try and minimize turnovers, and that will fall on our midfield. Our midfield will have to be very or­ganized.” 
In a game between such closely matched teams, the deciding factor may be Notre Dame’s “twelfth man.” 
“We just kind of plead to [the local fan base] because of the students being gone. We’re at a critical stretch,” Waldrum said. “We certainly want to appeal to them to come out and support us. I don’t know if the local fan base knows this, but these stats are kept for nationwide atten­dance, and right now we’re 6th. With [the students] being gone this weekend, we are going to need everyone to come out and support us.” 
The Irish and Hoyas will take the pitch Friday at Alumni Sta­dium at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu and Megan Gold­en at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
young players have begun to step into their roles. 
“You don’t want too many mistakes by inexperienced players,” Waldrum said. “Our young kids have played well for us by now. We’re 15 games into the season, though, so they are not that new.” 
Those freshmen will be called upon, as will the entire team, as Notre Dame takes on George­town (11-5-0, 5-3-0), an explo­sive squad that has scored nine goals in its past three games. The visitors will be led by se­nior midfielder Ingrid Wells, who leads the Hoyas with eight assists and 16 points. 
Once a recruiting target for Waldrum, the Irish coach will now be charged with stopping Wells from jumpstarting the potent Hoya attack. 
“They have [Wells], who we tried to recruit at Notre Dame, and she’s one of the best mid­fielders in the country, not to mention the conference,” Wal­drum said. “[The Hoyas are] very similar to us in many ways. They don’t play the same 

Marquette 
continued from page 20 

most we have ever dominated Marquette at Marquette,” King said. “We created loads of chanc­es, played very well, definitely out-possessed them, but we just didn’t put together the final prod­uct, and sometimes in the game of soccer that’s just how it hap­pens . you just can’t put it all to­gether.” 
The Irish fell behind early after they allowed Marquette to break onto the scoreboard in the 15th minute of the game. 
“They were able to get a good ball in, kind of just drop it into our danger area right there in the six-yard line, and the player just kind of tapped it in,” King said. “So it was pretty unfortunate to go down early in the game.” 
Despite unleashing 17 total shots, seven of which were direct­ed on goal, Notre Dame was not able to net the equalizer. Junior goalkeeper David Check had sev­en saves for Marquette, this after urgency, Shipp said. 
“I think it’s pretty urgent con­sidering we started off the sea­son well. We were 5-1-2, and we haven’t won in four games. It’s kind of frustrating,” he said. “I think the most important part of the season is yet to come.” 
With only five games remain­ing, all of which are conference matchups, the Irish will focus on cashing in on their opportunities.
 “We’ve been playing well, we just can’t finish right now,” Shipp said. “We are just having a prob­lem scoring goals, [but] we are getting chances. It’s just doing the little things to make sure the ball goes in the back of the net, because if we score two goals each game, we are going to win because we are outplaying pretty much every team we play against right now.” 
The Irish take the pitch of North Kehoe field at Georgetown hop­ing to begin what will be a strong finish to their season. Kickoff is scheduled for 1 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at  jmonardo@nd.edu 
Connecticut freshman goalkeep­er Andre Blake recorded nine saves in Notre Dame’s 0-0 draw with the Huskies on Saturday. 
“The last few games, the [op­posing] goalies have been playing really well,” sophomore midfield­er Harry Shipp said. “Today we hit the post three times. Some of it is just bad luck. We are creating chances. Towards the beginning of the season the ball was going in, whereas now [with] the same shots, the goalie is making a great save or it is hitting the post.” 
The Irish hope things will start to go their way when they travel to No. 20 Georgetown (8-2-3, 3-1­
0) for Saturday’s matchup. 
“If we can create chances again [like we did Wednesday] and out-possess them, but just put togeth­er the final performance and just score some goals, that’s basically all we need to do,” King said. 
Notre Dame will be the first ranked opponent to play at Georgetown this season, where the Hoyas are 5-1-0. After upset­ting then No. 3 Louisville on Oct. 1, the Irish have gone 0-2-2, a streak that has created a sense of 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame looks to recapture Big East championship 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
From 1997 to 2010, the Irish women’s swimming and diving team dominated the Big East, finishing first each year as con­ference champions. Though Louisville ended the 14-year streak last season, the Irish are gearing up to begin another run of Big East championships as they begin their season Friday. 
The team will host and com­pete in the annual Dennis Stark Relays at the Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter against Oakland and Texas Christian University. 
The meet pays tribute to Den­nis Stark, the former coach of both men’s and women’s swim­ming at Notre Dame. 
Key swimmers returning for the Irish this season include junior Kim Holden and senior Amy Prestinario. Last season, Holden, who competed in back and fly events, held the squad’s best times in the 50, 100 and 200-yard backstrokes, along with the 100-yard fly. In addi­tion, Holden qualified for the NCAA championships in March and competed in three events, including the 100 and 200-yard backstrokes. 
Holden was just one of two Irish swimmers to qualify for the NCAA championships, the other being graduate Saman­tha Maxwell. Holden has been a stand out since her freshman year, when she won four Big East titles and earned six all-Big East honors. 
The other team leader, Presti­nario, a freestyle and individual medley swimmer, looks to con­tinue her contributions to the team as a senior. Last season, she held the team’s two best times in the 50-yard freestyle and three of the five best times in the 100-yard freestyle. 
Meanwhile, the diving team earned first place with 68 points in the 2011 Big East Diving Championships. Juniors Kim­mie Lisiak and Jenny Chiang are two returning divers from that squad, which will feature three freshmen this season. 
At the 2011 Big East Swim­ming Championships, the Irish took second place with 655.5 points, placing them 165 points behind the first place Cardinals. 
Following the Dennis Stark Relays on Friday, the Irish will host Auburn at the Rolfs Aquat­ic Center for a meet Oct. 21 at 2 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at  munger3@nd.edu 


Goalie 
continued from page 20 
Steven Summerhays, has con­tributed as well, starting the second game last weekend after senior goalie Mike Johnson gar­nered the season-opening start. Summerhays made 21 saves in the win; Johnson, 27 in the loss. 
Jackson said he could still see the two net-minders splitting time between the pipes. 
“I’m not opposed to playing two different guys,” Jackson said. “I thought both of them were okay. I didn’t think either one was exceptional. Until one of them shows [he] can be excep­tional on a consistent basis, I’m willing to look at both of them.” 
The Buckeyes (1-1-0) enter the weekend having split a pair of one-goal games to Quinnipiac. Ohio State has allowed nearly 35 shots a game but has only given up a mere five goals. 
“A lot of those shots may have been perimeter shots,” Jackson said. “We’re obviously going to take this game as seriously as we need to as far as improving on our game. It’ll be more about what we do than what Ohio State does.” 
Lorenz likened the Buckeyes to last year’s Irish — young and talented — and said Ohio State’s energy could be a threat. 
Ohio State freshman forward Ryan Dzingel leads the Buckeyes with team-highs in goals (two) and points (three). Senior goalie Cal Heeter started both contests for Ohio State but was replaced by junior Brady Hjelle during Saturday’s 4-3 loss after allow­ing three goals in less than 12 minutes. 
“In my estimation, it’s not like [the Buckeyes] aren’t good hock­ey players. They have some good young recruits, so I think they’re going to be a real challenge for us,” Jackson said. 
After the Ohio State games, the Irish will next face Rensse­laer Polytechnic Institute in the opening game at the new Comp­ton Family Ice Arena. 
“It’ll be weird to walk out of that locker room for the last time,” Jackson said. “We joke about it not being very nice, but it’s been a serviceable home. It’s going to have an impact emo­tionally for me, and I’m sure a lot of people, walking out of there for the last time.” 
The Compton Family Ice Are­na, a sparkling $50 million, 5,000 seat project, will replace the Joyce Center as the home of Irish hockey beginning with the RPI game. 
“There’s been all kinds of little idiosyncrasies of this new build­ing that we don’t even know what they are yet,” Jackson said. “We’re extremely excited to play in a building that’s something to be proud of.” 
The No. 20 Engineers are fol­lowing a 4-1 win over Minnesota State-Mankato and will play Ferris State this weekend. Soph­omore forward Brock Higgs and freshman forward Ryan Hag­gerty lead RPI (1-1-0) with two points apiece. 
“RPI is going to be a good game, but right now the focus is on sending out the JACC on a good note,” Lorenz said. “When the time comes to move into the new building, we’ll be excited for it.” 
The Irish close out the Joyce Center with games against Ohio State on Friday and Saturday, both at 7:05 p.m. A week later on Oct. 21, Notre Dame will host RPI at 7:35 p.m. for the much an­ticipated unveiling of the Comp­ton Family Ice Arena. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Title 
continued from page 20 
coach Muffet McGraw said. “We’ve got to start, and we aren’t going to win the national championship today. And that’s something I think we have to try to communicate … to the team 
— that each game is important, but we really do have to take it one step at a time.” 
With a veteran lineup that includes four returning start­ers from last year, the Irish are among the preseason favorites to be this season’s champions. Notre Dame brings back Dig-gins, fifth-year forward De­vereaux Peters, senior guard Natalie Novosel and fifth-year guard Brittany Mallory as starters, with Peters, Novosel and Mallory splitting captain duties. 
Diggins, Peters and Novosel are preseason All-Americans and were recently named to the preseason list of candidates for the Coach Wooden Award, an honor awarded to the top player in NCAA women’s basketball. 
However, the sole departure from last year’s starting line­up is a significant one, as the graduation of forward Becca Bruszewski leaves the Irish wanting for a physical presence. Along with replacing Bruszews­ki’s contributions in the paint, Notre Dame will also have to re­place her leadership ability. 

“I think sometimes leader­ship is sometimes harder to re­place than the stats,” McGraw said. “We already miss [Brusze­wski’s] voice. When it comes down to it on the court, I think Skylar is going to be the leader. She is going to have the ball in her hands, she will definitely have that voice that Becca had.” 
To fill the void under the hoop, the Irish will turn to sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa. How­ever, McGraw said she realizes that the team’s strengths rely principally on the guard posi­tion. 
“We can really score,” Mc­Graw said. “This is our best 3-point shooting team ever. I think we’ll be able to be score, and our question mark will be inside — can we score on the block and can we defend on the block.” 
In the offseason, Diggins, Pe­ters and Novosel helped lead Team USA to a championship in the World University Games, but Notre Dame’s “big three” haven’t let their success affect their approach to this season. 

“I think they definitely still have the edge, and I think they are trying to get the rest of the team to get that edge,” McGraw said. “I think right now, they are really, really intense at practice. Last year we were pretty in­tense, but it’s almost obsessive with those three right now.” 
As she prepares to embark on what many hope will be a magi­cal season, McGraw acknowl­edges her team still has plenty of room for improvement. 
“If I had to rank where my team was at now, I’m not sure we’d be in the top-25,” McGraw said. 
“I think we’ve got a long way to go and I think they know that.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT                              AND JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, October 13, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND BASKETBALL 

Time for tip-off 
Men’s basketball to 


Women’s basketball replace senior starters 
aims for national title 
By DOUGLAS FARMER By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Editor-in-Chief Sports Writer 
A year ago Irish coach Mike 

For a team that finished as Brey sat comfortably at the an­
runner-up in the national cham­nual preseason media day know­
pionship last year, there is only ing his starting lineup consisted of 
so much room to improve. But five seniors. 
based on the commentary at As would be expected the year 
Notre Dame’s annual media day following such an experience-lad­
yesterday, that won’t stop the en squad, Brey does not yet know 
Irish from trying to produce an Notre Dame’s starting lineup for 
even better season than their this season. 
2010-2011 campaign. “Of my 12 years, I haven’t had to 
“Every season you approach, keep reminding myself about pa-
your goal is to do better than you tience [like I have this year],” Brey 
did last season,” junior guard said at Wednesday’s media day. 
Skylar Diggins said. “Last sea­“Of all the guys, only one of them 
son we were the bridesmaids, is a freshman, but as a team we 
and this season we want to be are younger, we’re newer.” 
the bride.” The Irish will start two fifth-
The media day provided a pre­year seniors, forward Tim Abro­
view of a 2011-2012 season sur­maitis and guard Scott Martin, 
rounded by high expectations. who were both starters last year 
Still several weeks away from as well. Abromaitis’ 15.4 points 
their first exhibition game Nov. per game last season lead the 
2, the Irish have set their focus team. 
on making a return appearance “[Abromaitis] has to do a little 
in the title game. bit of everything for us,” Brey said. 
“I think you look at what we “I don’t want him to feel that he 
have — obviously we want to has the weight of the world to car-
compete for a national champi­ry us offensively, but we have got 
onship. That’s something that 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

to get him looks. I don’t want him has got to be our goal,” Irish 
Irish coach Mike Brey speaks to reporters during Notre Dame’s annual media day Wednesday. The Irish see BREY/page 16 will begin the season without fifth-year senior Tim Abromaitis for four games due to suspension. see TITLE/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame to host Georgetown at home 
By JACK HEFFERON and MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writers 
After an uncharacteristic rough patch at the beginning of the season, Notre Dame appears to have settled back into cham­pionship form. Since their loss to Louisville on Sept. 16, the Irish have not allowed a goal and have gone 3-0-1 during a key Big East stretch. With just three regular season games left to play, the Irish (7-5-3, 4-2-2 Big East) face a critical conference test when they host Georgetown on Friday. 
In that early part of the sea­son, the Irish found themselves dominating almost all of the games they played in both flow of play and nearly every statis­tical category. However, mo­mentary lapses and a couple of defensive breakdowns cost them both points and results. Over the 
see HOYAS/page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND drops conference contest to Marquette 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish let loose more total shots, directed more shots on goal, earned more corner kicks, com­mitted fewer fouls and had fewer offside calls than their opponent on Wednesday. In other words, they did everything but win the game. 
No. 12 Notre Dame suffered a disappointing 1-0 loss at Mar­quette, the first Irish loss to the Golden Eagles (6-5-2, 4-0-0 Big East) in the teams’ last eight matchups. Although the Irish (5­3-4, 1-2-1) came up short on the scoreboard, they put forth an im­pressive performance, senior mid­fielder Brendan King said. 
“Just talking to [Irish] coach [Bobby Clark] after the game, he was telling us that that was the 
see MARQUETTE/page 16 
HOCKEY 

Irish to close Joyce with Ohio St. 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 

For the 2011-2012 Irish squad, the curtains will come down this weekend – the blue draping curtains that line the Joyce Center that is. 
In the final games played at the Joyce Center, No. 2 Notre Dame will host Ohio State in each team’s opening pair of CCHA games. 
“There’s a lot of tradition, a lot of good players have come through here and we want to go out on the right note, leave this building on a good note,” senior defenseman Sean Lo­renz said. 
Last weekend, the Irish (1-1­
0) split a pair of games against defending national champion Minnesota-Duluth. Notre Dame dropped the opener 4-3 before rebounding to win 5-3 the next night. Lorenz said the Irish learned from their loss. 
“We have to be grittier,” Lo­renz said. “I think Friday night, everybody knows we weren’t gritty enough. We weren’t jam­ming like we should have been and I thought we came out Sat­urday night and we were doing that. We were taking the man instead of going for the puck and I think the whole tempo of the game picked up for us.” 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said other parts of Notre Dame’s game could also use improve­ment. 
“We have to be much more consistent with our decision making with the puck and making plays with the puck especially at the offensive and defensive blue lines,” Jackson said. 
Sophomore center T.J. Tynan and sophomore forward An­ders Lee both picked up where they left off last year, when the duo combined for 98 points. Tynan, last year’s National Rookie of the Year, has already piled up a goal and three as-sists while Lee has two goals and an assist. 

“[I] tell them to keep on working, don’t get comfortable, don’t get complacent,” Lorenz said of the sophomores. “Al­ready in the first weekend, all of our sophomores are doing a good job. They’re keeping a level head.” 
Another sophomore, goalie 
see GOALIE/page 18 




