
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Activist decries executions 
Sr. Helen Prejean lectures on death penalty, right to life 

By VIENNA WAGNER 
News Writer 
Sr. Helen Prejean said she is “not a brave person.” 
Yet she stood by the side of a convicted murderer — her friend — as he received the death penalty in the electric chair and prayed for him. 
Prejean, a Catholic nun and a mentor for inmates on death row, called for the Notre Dame community to speak out against the death penalty dur­ing her lecture in Geddes Hall on Monday evening. 
“A big part of education is awakening to the gifts that God has given us and learning to develop them for service to the community,” Prejean said. 
This “awakening” led Prejean to her outspoken ac­tivism against the death pen­alty. 
“The best definition of ‘jus­tice’ is ‘just us,’” Sr. Prejean said, “When we wake up, it’s a dangerous point because if we don’t act we become par­alyzed, sink down into the 


SMC promotes Asian study abroad programs 


By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s promoted its Asian study abroad programs with mooncakes and music at a celebration of Chinese and Ko­rean harvest festivals Monday afternoon in the Student Center. 
The event, sponsored by the Center for Women’s Intercul­tural Leadership (CWIL), com­memorated the Chinese festival Zhongqui Jie, or “Mid-Autumn Festival,” and the Korean festival Chuseok. 
Alice Yang, assistant direc­tor for global education, said she hopes students take advantage of the College’s four study abroad programs in Asia. 
“We have summer and semes­ter programs in China and Ko­rea, and we’ve been looking for 

see FESTIVAL/page 5 
whirlpool and don’t do any­thing.  It doesn’t matter where you start because grace is go­ing to lead you.” 
Each human being deserves the basic right to life, Prejean said. 
“Even those among us who have done terrible crimes have a dignity that must not be tak­en from them,” she said. “Do we only uphold the dignity of innocent lives? There is no dignity in death row deaths.” 

see ACTIVISM/page 5 


Former Irish assistant coach serves time in jail 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Irish assistant football coach Corwin Brown spent the weekend in jail on felony charges re­lated to a seven-hour stand­off at his Granger home in August. 
Brown posted $5,000 bond Monday afternoon following an arraignment hearing to formally read his charges, which were filed Aug. 16. 
Brown was charged with domestic violence, a Class D felony, and two counts of confinement, according to court documents. The two 
conf inement  charges  are  
Class  C  and  Class  B  felo - 
nies.  

Brown spent nearly a month in a secured medical facility after the standoff, but records at the St. Jo­seph County Jail stated he was booked there Friday. 
St. Joseph County Police responded to a call Aug. 12 from Melissa Brown, Corwin Brown’s wife, re­porting domestic violence at the home. Law enforce­ment arrived at the home in the early afternoon and remained outside the resi­dence until early evening, according to police reports. 
Melissa Brown told police at the scene that her hus­band threatened her while he had a handgun in his pocket and refused to let her leave their home. 
A SWAT team negotiated with Corwin Brown during the standoff. 
Officers continued to ne­gotiate with the former de­fensive coordinator during the seven-hour standoff, and the report stated sev­eral gunshots were heard before Corwin Brown ex­ited the home after 7 p.m. He suffered a self-inflicted wound in his side, police said. 
Corwin Brown was treat­ed at Memorial Hospital be­fore police transported him to a local psychiatric facil­ity, according to St. Joseph County police. 
Brown was a member of the Notre Dame football staff from 2007 to 2009. He then served as a defensive backs coach with the New England Patriots during the 2010 season, but he was re­lieved of his duties on the team in February. 


Professors support Jobs Act 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
After President Barack Obama proposed his new job plan last week, Notre Dame pro­fessors said they are optimistic that the American Jobs Act could help improve unemploy­ment and encourage economic growth. 
Obama outlined the proposed act in a speech to a joint ses­sion of Congress last Thursday. The $447 billion plan would put Americans back to work with tax breaks for citizens and busi­nesses, infrastructure spending and increased unemployment benefits, he said in his speech. 
If the plan passes in Congress, finance Professor Jeffrey Berg-strand said it would encourage the nation’s financial outlook. 
“This is positive — especially in a global economy,” Berg-strand said. “We’re all inter­linked.” 
Bergstrand said 60 percent of the $447 billion plan is allotted for tax breaks and cuts. 
These breaks would last longer and tax less than a tax break implemented in the be­ginning of the year, and Berg-strand said the plan allows the same breaks for businesses. 
John Stiver, an associate pro­fessional specialist in the Men­doza School of Business, said these tax breaks would be a critical piece of the plan. 
“The tax breaks for busi­nesses are the most direct in terms of promoting hiring,” Sti-ver said.  “Further, tax breaks for businesses can be imple­mented immediately and should have an impact rather quickly. Spending on infrastructure in principle could put people back to work, but typically take too long to start — we need ‘shovel­ready’ projects. Tax relief can be implemented quickly and 


see JOBS/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER New study space opens page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Nuremberg film screened at DPAC page 8 u Men’s golf: Gopher Invitational page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, September 13, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: AS SOMEONE PARTICIPATING IN ENERGY WEEK, WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE MOST IMPORTANT THING STUDENTS CAN DO TO BE MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY CONSCIENTIOUS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Megan Doyle Marisa Iati Emma Russ 

Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 

Photo 
Thomas La 

Sports 
Molly Sammon Cory Bernard Joseph Monardo 

Scene 
Courtney Cox 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 

Elizabeth Callam  Megan Dustin  Robert Jordan  Sara Brown  Will O’Laughlin  Susan Garabedian  
junior  sophomore  junior  Program  senior  
Lyons “Buy less bottled  Lyons “Be sure to turn  Keough “Participate  Coordinator, Office of Sustainability  O’Neill “Turn off your  senior Breen-Phillips  
water. Use refrigerated filters instead.”  off lights and use CFL bulbs.”  in Game Day Recycling.”  “Ride your bike.”  lights.”  “Recycle everything.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Bus stop proximity to strip club incites complaint 
MYRTLE BEACH, S.C. — Officials in eastern South Carolina are moving a school bus stop that was by a strip club after parents complained. 
WPDE-TV reports chil­dren had to wait in the parking lot of a strip club in Atlantic Beach to catch the school bus. 
Misty Umphries, a mother who waits at the stop with her children, says she had to explain to her 4-year-old the meaning of “topless.” 
Horry County transpor­tation director Jim Wright previously said the stop was the central point of four blocks it needed to accom­modate. Wright was con-

LOCAL WEATHER 
cerned that moving the stop to a community center that parents suggested would re­quire some children to walk farther. 
District officials have since decided to create two new bus stops in the area. 
Canines delay plane land­ing in Alaska 
JUNEAU, Alaska — Two dogs on an airport runway in Alaska’s capital city de­layed the landing of an Alas­ka Airlines flight. 
The plane had to abort its initial attempt and circle around before it could land at Juneau International Air­port. 
Deputy Airport Manag­er Patty deLaBruere tells KINY-AM that Flight 64 from Anchorage was arriv­ing Sunday afternoon when two black Labrador retriev­ers were spotted on the run­way. 
Chava Lee of the Gastin­eau Humane Society says an animal control officer caught one of the dogs. An­other dog matching the de­scription was found in the area, but officials weren’t sure if it was the right dog. 
KINY reports the owner of the dog caught on the runway is out of town, and the animal was in some­one else’s care. Lee says the dog’s owner will be cited. 
It’s unknown how the ca­nines got to the runway. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Snite Museum of Art presents three new collec­tions: “Cinema Play House Photographs by Nandita Ran,” “Chicanitas, Small Paintings from the Cheech Marin Collection” and “The Epic and the Intimate: French Drawings from the John D. Reilly ’63 Collec­tion.” The collections are available for viewing  from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tues­days and Wednesdays, 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday through Saturday and 1 to 5 
p.m. on Sundays. Admission is free. 
Dr. Peter Kilpatrick, Mc-Closkey Dean of Engineer­ing, will host a lecture and discussion entitled “The Re­ally Tough Questions About Catholicism” today from 6 to 7:30 p.m. The lecture will be held in DeBartolo Hall room 141.   
The film “Nuremberg: Its Lesson For Today” will play tonight at the DeBar­tolo Performing Arts Center from 7:30 to 8:50 p.m. Film­maker Sandra Schulberg is scheduled to appear in per­son. The event is ticketed, but admission is free. 
Professor Ron Hansen of Santa Clara University will give the second lecture in this year’s Catholic Cul­ture Literature Series. The lecture is called “Victorian Catholic Writers: Penning the Grandeur of God” and will be held in DeBartolo Hall room 141. Hansen will speak about the poet Rev. Gerard Manly Hopkins, SJ. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









CORRECTIONS 
In yesterday’s article titled “Notre Dame leads Gopher Invitational,” Niall Platt was listed as scoring three-over-par after two rounds. The article should have read that Platt was one-over-par. The Observer regrets the error. 
HIGH 60 LOW 50 
HIGH 68 LOW 44 
HIGH 62 LOW 37 
HIGH 67 LOW 37 
HIGH 71 LOW 49 
Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Class explores local Latino challenges 
By HALEY KOTH 
News Writer 
For the second year in a row, a small group of Saint Mary’s students will spend a weekend with local Latino families on South Bend’s west side this fall. 
The College’s Justice Educa­tion Studies program is now accepting applications for its “Church in the City” seminar, a program designed to bring students face-to-face with challenges in the Latino com­munity. 
Education Professor Nabila Bhatti is involved with co­ordinating the seminar. She said the program’s goal is to “explore the specific issues of poverty and immigration through reflection, analysis and immersion into the La­tino community.” 
Bhatti said Campus Minis­try and the Justice Education Studies program created the program as a way for students to become more aware of the impoverished conditions of South Bend immigrant fami­lies. 
The students who partici­pate in the seminar need to be willing to listen to mem­bers of the local area that are sometimes forgotten, she said. 
“We approach our immer­sion with humility,” Bhatti said. “[We are] open to hear­ing the stories and perspec­tives of those within soci­ety whose voices are seldom heard … Together we will re­flect and learn with those on the margins of society, know­ing that it is in the midst of these that we encounter the face of Christ.” 
Last November, 14 Saint Mary’s students participated in the seminar. 
While “Church in the City” was only recently added to the College’s course listings, senior Bridget Gartenmeyer, one of last year’s participants said the program is more than an average college class. 
“The experiential learning course is a great way to break out of the Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame bubble and ex­perience the challenges and concerns for South Bend com­munities,” Gartenmeyer said. “As a political science major, I learned a great deal about what it means to be a faithful citizen and how to incorpo­rate social justice and human dignity into my public partici­pation.” 
Gartenmeyer said the 14 students worked closely with La Casa de Amistad, a Latino group in South Bend, as they talked with community lead­ers about social justice.
 “We got the chance to speak to affected families and students and advocates to get a personal perspective on the difficulties involved with immigration,” Gartenmayer said. 
La Casa de Amistad also works with members of the Latino population in South Bend to provide education and literacy programs, health education and social services. 
The six local host families that worked with the program made the Saint Mary’s stu­dents feel welcome in their homes, Gartenmayer said. 
“By far my favorite part was staying with the families for the weekend,” Gartenmayer said. “Our entire experience was built on trust because the family opened up and let us in to every part of their life.” 
Bhatti said the Justice Edu­cation Studies office would accept applications for the seminar until Wednesday. The course is worth one cred­it hour and is open to all ma­jors. 
“We hope it will again be a great opportunity for students at Saint Mary’s College … to be more involved in local and global issues of justice, peace and development,” Bhatti said. 
Contact Haley Koth at hkoth01@saintmarys.edu 



IEI building to serve as office, study space 



By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
The new Institute for Educa­tional Initiatives (IEI) building not only serves as a new office space for the Alliance for Catho­lic Education (ACE), but it also opens another study space for students on campus. 
Sarah Greene, assistant director in the ACE Service Through Teaching Program, said her office moved into the newly constructed Carole Sand­ner Hall this summer. 
“It’s a beautifully renovated area with inspiring historic ori­gins,” Greene said. “It’s wonder­ful to see how Notre Dame has utilized the space to make this connection between past initia­tives and current programs in service to Catholic education.” 
The new study room connects to the building’s historical roots, Greene said. 
“Remick Commons was con­structed out of the building’s original chapel, where Holy Cross Sisters in the novitiate once received their training for teaching in Catholic schools,” Greene said. 
The new office, relocated from Badin Hall, is located near Brownson Hall and the Earth Science Building. 
“The entrance to ACE’s his­toric new home, located just north of the Basilica, opens into the Remick Commons area,” Greene said. “The IEI welcomes students to view Remick Com­mons as a location for small events or group discussions, es­pecially concerning matters of service or education.” 
The study room, full of couch­es and tables for students, is located on the building’s first floor. 
The ACE staff will handle res­ervations for large groups using the space, she said. 
Even if students do not use the study room, Greene said she hopes they will seek out the ACE office to ask questions about the program. 
“[We invite] interested stu­dents to stop by their office on the second floor, whether to have specific questions answered or simply to become acquainted with the service program’s staff and faculty,” she said. 
The University founded the IEI program nearly 20 years ago as part of its commitment to revitalize American educa­tion, Greene said. 
As part of the IEI offices, the new building houses many pro­grams, including the Mary Ann Remick Leadership Program, Teaching Exceptional Children, Play Like a Champion Today and Service through Teaching, Greene said. 
The building also accommo­dates other IEI departments, including the Education and Schooling Society minor. 
Bill Schmitt, the office’s com­munications and media special­ist, said University President Fr. John Jenkins would dedicate the building Friday at 5 p.m. The dedication will be followed by a keynote address from Va. Gov. Bob McDonnell and a Mass with Bishop Kevin Rhoades. 
“The center hopes the public events will spark the interests of all on campus and particu­larly prospective applicants to ACE’s Service through Teaching program,” Schmitt said. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at                                abutts@nd.edu 


Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 


Jobs 
continued from page 1 
will have an immediate impact on the average American’s bud­get, but it’s unclear what ulti­mate impact these tax cuts will have on employment.” 
These benefits would not mean much for college graduates look­ing for jobs, Stiver said. 
“I’m not sure that this jobs plan will have a big impact on your typical Notre Dame gradu­ate,” Stiver said. “The unemploy­ment for college graduates is around 4.5 percent — this will be a little higher for new college graduates looking for their first job. The problem areas for job creation lie in manufacturing and construction. Further, most, if not all, of these initiatives will probably expire in the next year or two.” 
Economics Professor Jim Sulli­van predicted some Republicans would support Obama’s plan. 
“Many of the key proposals from Obama’s jobs plan have re­ceived support from Republicans in the past,” Sullivan said. “Tem­porary reductions in payroll tax­es and tax deductions for compa­nies making investments in new plants and equipment, for exam­ple, are likely to receive support from some Republicans.” 
Bergstrand said the political split between the Senate and the House of Representatives could impede the overall act. 
“The part that will probably go through unscathed will be the payroll tax cuts,” Bergstrand said. “With the other sections, maybe half will be approved of what’s been offered.” 
The biggest challenge with implementing the proposals, Bergstrand said, will be footing the bill. 
In his Thursday speech, Obama said the cost would be covered long term by future spending cuts. 
However, Bergstrand said that would increase the nation’s short-term deficit and debt. 
“There’s currently a biparti­san committee that has to come up with a plan to cut $2 billion [in spending] by Thanksgiving,” Bergstrand said. “We’re borrow­ing on the future, but now is the time to cut unemployment.” 
Bergstrand called current un­employment numbers “extraor­dinarily high,” and any reduction in those rates would be a start in the right direction, he said. 
“[The American Jobs Act could make] a dent, but only a small one in the output gap — mean­ing we’re still operating below our potential,” Bergstrand said. “We still face, even if all of this is passed, sluggish economic growth for several years down the road.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Festival 
continued from page 1 
a partner in India to exchange students with as well,” Yang said. “Each culture has its own uniqueness and different view­points. [Study abroad] encour­ages students to broaden their viewpoints, especially when the economy in Asia is growing so fast.” 
Past participants in the Asian programs gathered at the cel­ebration to commemorate the Mid-Autumn Festival, an ancient Chinese tradition to commemo­rate the moon. 
Junior Alyssa Carty studied in Seoul, Korea, during her sopho­more year. She said her experi-

Activism 
continued from page 1 
In her bestselling book “Dead Man Walking: An Eye­witness Account of the Death Penalty in the United States,” Prejean wrote about her expe­rience as a spiritual advisor to a man awaiting the death pen­alty in Louisiana. 
Prejean said words from a fellow nun prompted her to serve others more often. 
“[She said,] ‘Integral to the news that Jesus taught the poor was that they would be poor no longer,’” Prejean said. 
After she became an advi­sor for a death row inmate in the 1980s, Prejean said “God’s sneakiness” took her on a jour­ney she never expected. 
“I had no way of knowing 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Exactly 10 years ago, ground zero was a smoking, fire-spitting tomb, a ghastly pile of rubble and hu­man remains. On Monday it was a place of serenity — an expanse of trees and water in the middle of a bustling city — as the 9/11 memorial opened to the public. 
As they walked through a grove of oaks and traced their fingers over the names of the nearly 3,000 dead, visi­tors were deeply moved by the monument, whose centerpiece is two sunken pools ringed by bronze plaques. 
“When we walked in, those images were popping in my head from 10 years ago,” said Laura Pajar of Las Vegas. “But when I saw the memorial, all ence tasting new foods and work­ing with 300 other international students at the Seoul Women’s University was invaluable. 

“We became a big family,” Car­ty said. “Now I feel like I can go anywhere in the world and find someone I’ve bonded with.” 
Junior Kari Keller works as the peer advisor for the Chi­nese study abroad programs. She shared her experiences of the Forbidden City, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Tianamen Square when she was in China last year. 
Her favorite part of the trip was a visit to Buddhist nuns, Keller said. 
“They said their rice would be the best meal we had ever tasted because they prayed over it,” she said. “I was like, ‘sure,’ but tast­ing it was something else. I had a lot of rice that trip.” 
Junior Pei Zheng, a Chinese na­tive, explained the Mid-Autumn Festival traditions to the group as everyone sampled mooncakes, songpyeon, egg rolls, hot oolong and green tea. 
“Although thousands of years old, [the festival] is really impor­tant in modern Chinese culture,” Zheng said. 
During the Zhongqiu Jie, Zheng said the Chinese munch on mooncakes, a delicacy made from lotus seed paste, under a full moon. She added that those who are unable to see their fami­lies on the special festival take comfort knowing they are look­ing at the same moon as their loved ones. 
This year, Zheng said the Ko­rean Chuseok festival fell on the 
that two years ago from then evil. However, people have fac­he would be electrocuted at es.” midnight, that I would be Prejean continues to mentor with him in the last hours to death row inmates today. Dur-
the  electric  ing her talk,  
chair  and  she  empha­ 
[that] he would look at my face and try to protect me,” Prejean said.  “The reason I stand before you today is that I became a witness. When we see suffering, we’ve got to stand up.”  sized the way she has seen culture blur facts in the justice sys­tem.  
A  judge  She  cited  
s en t en c e d the man to  Sr. Helen Prejean activist  the an  case of African- 
death  row  A mer i c a n  
after he par- boy with an  
ticipated  in  IQ of 65 who  

the cold-blooded murder of was tried and unfairly convict-two teenagers on their way ed of murdering a white wom­to a football game. However, an by an all-white jury. Prejean said she saw goodness “Culture blinds us,” Prejean in him. said. “Culture is like the air we 
“We want to make the per-breathe.  One of the problems son [who commits a crime] of society is that we’re so sepa­evil,” Prejean said. “Acts are rated.  Our racism, assault of unspeakably evil. It’s ethical to poor, and penchant for trying be outraged over an act that’s to solve our problems with vio-


Memorial honors victims of 9/11 attacks 
of that went away. This is so peaceful, and you kind of forget about what happened and you look toward the future.” 
About 7,000 people regis­tered online for free tickets to visit on opening day, and 400,000 are signed up for the coming months, according to the nonprofit organization that oversees the memorial. 
Many visitors made pencil-and-paper rubbings of the names to take back home. Oth­ers sat on benches or clustered for photos. Some people cried; others embraced. Some left flowers or stuffed messages into the letters. 
“There were no words,” Ei­leen Cristina of Lititz, Pa., said as she wiped away tears. “The enormity of the loss, the enor­mity of human kindness, the enormity of the suffering.” 
The site was opened on Sun­day — the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks — to the 9/11 families. Monday marked the first day since the tragedy that ground zero was opened to the public. 
Security was airport-tight, with visitors forced to empty their pockets, go through a metal detector and send their bags through an X-ray ma­chine. 
The memorial takes visitors on a kind of journey. First they walk through a promenade of more than 200 white oak trees. Then, like hikers coming upon a canyon, they arrive at two 30-foot-deep pits on the exact spots where the World Trade Center’s twin towers stood. Water cascades into the two voids, evoking the dust cloud that accompanied the towers’ fall. 
The falling water creates a constant whooshing, muffling the noise of the city and nearby construction. 
“It’s like an entrance to eter­nity,” said Wojtek Ballzun, a rail worker from Warsaw, Po­land. 
Jim Drzewiecki, a retired volunteer firefighter accompa­nying a current team of them from Lancaster, N.Y., said he was trembling as he stood next to the pools. 
“I’m actually still shaking,” he said. “It could have been me on that flight. On any one of the flights. ... There’s not much that separates us.” 
The bronze plates carry the names of the 2,977 people killed in the terrorist attacks in New York, at the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania, plus the names of the six who died in same date as the Chinese festi­val. Chuseok is a three-day fes­tival celebrated near the autumn equinox. 
The festivities ended with a Chinese song featuring the lyr­ics, “No matter how far away we are, we enjoy the same moon,” and a Korean pop song by the group First Generation. 
Yang praised the study abroad experience as an opportunity to learn about another culture and to make international connec­tions. 
“That’s the point,” Yang said. “Students have the opportunity to come here,and we are able to send our students there. Every­one learns from each other.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
lence are all found in the death penalty.” 
Prejean campaigned suc­cessfully for Pope John Paul II to add execution to his pro-life agenda along with abortion and euthanasia. 
Prejean described the way the families of murder victims in New Jersey campaigned for the abolition of the death pen­alty. 
She encouraged Notre Dame students and the local commu­nity to forgive those on death row as these families did and to work against execution. 
“The reason I stand before you today is that I became a witness,” Sr. Prejean said. “When we see suffering, we’ve got to stand up. 
“Forgiveness is the grace of God that keeps us from being consumed by hatred.” 
Contact Vienna Wagner at vwagner2@nd.edu 

the bombing of the trade cen­ter in 1993. The letters have been cut all the way through the metal, with empty space beneath them. 
Nearby are a half-dozen electronic directories to help visitors find names, which are grouped not alphabetically but in ways that show the connec­tions between co-workers, fire­fighters, airplane flight crews and other victims. 
The memorial’s architect, Michael Arad, said the plaza next to the pools was inspired by gatherings of mourners that he saw in New York’s Washing­ton Square and Union Square after the attacks. 
“These places don’t just bring us together physically in one spot, they brought us together emotionally,” Arad said. “We’ve recreated that opportunity for that to happen here.”tstairway that enabled hundreds to es­cape. 

page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 13, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Fall TV 
Fall is just about here and with the changing of seasons comes a flood of 
T.V. shows, both new and old, to a screen near you. What will “The Office” be like without Michael Scott, you might ask. Or will Sarah Michelle Gellar’s return to television actually be any good? These and many more pressing questions will be an­swered in the coming weeks as the fall TV season starts in full swing. But with so many shows to choose from, make sure you aren’t missing out on some of T.V.’s best. 
“The Vampire Diaries,” for example. You might think this vampire show is just broadcast television’s answer to the “Twi­light” craze currently plaguing popular culture. Wrong. 
“The Vampire Diaries,” despite being on the teen-centric The CW, features some of the best storytelling on television today. You’re liable to see more blood and gore in an episode of “The Vampire Diaries” than in an episode of “CSI” and it never shies away from death and destruction. Some­times those dead come back to life thanks to the mysterious rules of supernatural law, but the writers on “The Vampire Dia­ries” sure know how to deal with annoying characters and generally weave a compel­ling plot. 
Despite its premise of melodramatic love and teen angst, every episode of “The Vampire Diaries” is high-octane and action-packed. There is no such thing as a dull episode and the plot twists and cliff­hangers are some of the most compelling on TV. Let’s not forget that the entire cast, be they male or female, is generally not bad to look at either. 
Don’t let the premise of a show about vampires on a teenage girl-oriented channel keep you away — if you give “The Vampire Diaries” a chance, it is sure to draw you in and will probably never let you go, either. 
While all talk of NBC comedies has been focused on “The Office” and its new lack of Michael Scott, many viewers are missing the pure comedy genius that is “Parks and Recreation.” The comedy, similar in style to the fake-documentary feel of “The Office,” started slow in its first handful of episodes, but has since found its stride and continually turns out more comedic punches than any show on television. 
The premise may sound dull — the inner-workings of a Parks and Recreation department in small-town Indiana and the lives of its workers. Wrong again. 
Amy Poehler leads her stellar castmates, including Aziz Ansari, Rashida Jones, Chris Pratt, Aubrey Plaza, Rob Lowe, Adam Scott and the deadpan god himself, Nick Offerman, in one of the kookiest, fun­niest shows television has ever seen. 
Last season, particularly episodes focused on the Harvest Festival and Li’l Sebastian, was a fantastic string of hilar­ity and this season promises even more of the same. Nick Offerman was unjustly snubbed by the Emmy Awards this year, so to find out why this is so wrong, and to help right that wrong in your own way, tune in on Thursday nights to “Parks and Recreation.” 
Clearly, Thursday nights will be tough this season as “The Vampire Diaries” and “Parks and Recreation” compete for viewers in the same time slot. But that’s what DVRs and Hulu are for. And if you don’t have one, come hang out with me and I will make sure you don’t miss any of television’s best offerings. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maija Gustin at       mgustin@nd.edu 


Where are we now? 
Ten years ago the United States went through a transformative moment. When the Twin Towers fell, the Pen­tagon was struck and a plane crashed in Pennsylvania, we all knew that the world would never be the same. How-William Miller ever, it was hard to imagine then Guest what would happen Columnist next. The United States has subsequently embarked on a campaign to rid the world of al Qa­eda and organizations like it. In doing so we have gone to war in Afghanistan, launched an invasion of Iraq, cracked down on Hamas and Hezbollah, used drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia and engaged militants in the deserts of North Africa. 
However, it is far from clear that the benefits of this massive endeavor have outweighed the costs. Although al Qa­eda has been weakened, it continues to operate in lawless areas of Somalia and Yemen, as well as the tribal areas of Pakistan. Hamas and Hezbollah main­tain a firm grip on Gaza and southern Lebanon, respectively, and continue to hamper efforts to negotiate a sus­tainable peace between Palestine and Israel. Meanwhile, a new generation of terrorists seems to have emerged. Known colloquially as the “Lone Wolf Terrorist,” these individuals, as exem­plified by Nidal Malik Hasan (the Fort Hood shooter), are inspired by the ex­ample set by radical extremists else­where and seek to copy their methods. Although these individuals are not ca­pable of striking on a large scale, they are also much more difficult to identify and track. 
This leads us to an important fact: The War on Terror is not about fighting any one organization. It is a war of pub­lic opinion, a battle to convince people around the world, and in the Middle 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
East in particular, that the means used by terrorists like al Qaeda are not legit­imate and should be disavowed. Ironi­cally, al Qaeda has been its own worst enemy in this battle. By killing innocent Muslims in terrorist attacks around the world, al Qaeda has delegitimized it­self in the eyes of many. In fact, large majorities of citizens across the Middle East ranked Islamic extremism as one of their top concerns in a recent poll by the Pew Research Center. 
Alarmingly, however, large majori­ties also said that al Qaeda was not re­sponsible for the attacks of 9/11. Rec­onciling these two viewpoints can be difficult. The evidence for al Qaeda’s in­volvement in 9/11 is overwhelming, and deep down most Muslims in the Middle East probably know this. The problem is that while most Muslims are anti-al Qaeda, they are certainly not pro-U.S. This is because many people across the Middle East believe that the United States has acted only in its best inter­ests and has disregarded the opinions and interests of ordinary citizens in the region. 
So where do we go from here? The answer is a three-step process. First, the United States must broker a peace deal between Israel and Palestine. The only way to do this is to pressure Israel to give up its settlement building in the West Bank while simultaneously coerc­ing the Palestinians into recognizing the legitimacy of Israel. The U.S. holds all the cards in both cases. Israel re­lies on the U.S. for weapons, and a U.S. threat to not deliver them would force the Israelis to cave. Palestine, mean­while, wants to be recognized as a state by the United Nations, but an American veto at the Security Council will pre­vent this from happening. As a result, the U.S. can set the terms for ending this conflict. 
Second, the United States must en­courage regimes in the region to liber­alize their political processes. Doing so would open up the political spectrum to youth-led political organizations, which tend to idealize western values but lack the opportunity to broadcast their mes­sage. These groups have the potential to transform the region and to intro­duce new ideas and norms into a stulti­fied political scene, but they will only get that chance if the United States puts pressure on its clients, such as Jordan and Kuwait, to allow this to happen. 
Finally, the U.S. must be much more careful in applying force around the re­gion. I am by no means suggesting that the U.S. cannot use force at all; raids such as the one that killed Osama bin Laden are justified when your enemy seeks to kill innocent civilians and fights by no rules. However, we have to be smart about when we strike. Killing low-level operatives in Pakistan creates more enemies than it disables, since the civilian casualties these strikes in­evitably lead to spark local outrage and create new opponents. 
Following these steps will not end terrorism, but they could create cir­cumstances in which terrorists’ means become delegitimized in the eyes of the Muslim world. This would strike a deathblow to organizations like al Qa­eda, which rely on popular support and funding to exist and operate. America is safer now than it was ten years ago, but it can be safer still if we take posi­tive steps to end the Israel-Palestine conflict, liberalize the region’s political systems and prevent unnecessary loss of life. 
William Miller is sophomore majoring in Arabic and political science. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Some things have to be believed to be seen.” 
Ralph Hodgson English poet 


WEEKLY POLL 
How often do you go onto The Observer’s website? 
Every day Once a week Once a month Never 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 

Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



The dreaded double-dip 
A double dip seems like such a good thing. 
The first thing I think of when I hear “double dip” is ice cream. Two scoops of ice cream is always better than one. 
Growing up, the ice cream store Grace near my house used Concelman to give free second scoops if it was rain-Options and ing or snowing. Given Futures that I lived in Pitts­burgh, it was usually raining, snowing or threatening to rain or snow, in which case it was worth it to sit in the park­ing lot for fifteen minutes just to see if something wet would fall out of the sky so we’d have an excuse to eat so much ice cream that we felt a little sick. 
There’s a second kind of double dip that is just as delicious but slightly more controversial — the chips and salsa double dip. For those occasional times when a single dip just won’t cut it, a double dip is necessary to ensure the perfect salsa-to-chip ratio. 
To be perfectly clear, I am in no way advocating the public double dip. Double dipping should never be done out of a communal salsa bowl even if the chips are huge and the opening of the salsa container too narrow for adequate salsa coverage. But, there are definitely ways to get around the double dipping problem. Breaking up the chips into more manageable pieces is probably the most hygienic alternative. Double end dipping is another good option, but one that should probably be cleared with the other dip participants, just in case there are any objections. 
The list of double dips goes on. 
Double dips in roller coasters are fun. Yes, there’s a great thrill factor in the newfangled roller coasters that are designed to shoot you as high as possible as fast as possible with as few restraints as the regulators will allow. But, there’s something so satisfying about the sim­plicity of a double dip. 
So double dips are great, right? 
Not always. There is one very unde­sirable type of double dip: the dreaded double dip recession. 
Unless you’ve been living under a rock (or at the Rock) lately, I’m sure you’ve seen the headlines. 
No new jobs created in August. Unem­ployment remains above nine percent. 
GDP growth revised down. Recession deeper than first estimated. 
Fed weighs options for further eas­ing. Obama announces another plan to create jobs. 
The National Bureau of Economic Research, the arbiter of the official dates of business cycles in the United States, says that the recession that started in December 2007 ended in June 2009, but these headlines certainly don’t seem to indicate that the economy has moved on. 
The NBER defines a recession as a period of diminishing economic activ­ity lasting more than a few months. Recessions start the month after a peak of economic activity (which is broadly measurable by Gross Domestic Prod­uct or GDP) and end when the activity arrives at a trough and the economy begins to grow again. Although there is no formal definition of a double dip recession, it’s usually characterized as a recession followed by a short period of growth followed again by another reces­sion. If you picture a graph of the GDP, it looks like a W. 
Hence, the question on everyone’s minds: Are we headed for a double dip? 
It’s obvious that the economy is sput­tering, but the recession was deep and recovery takes time. Government stimu­lus can only do so much to encourage consumer spending, and with unemploy­ment so high, interest rates so low and credit so tight, consumers just aren’t willing to spend. 
Large corporations have all but recov­ered, but now they’re hoarding cash in defensive fear. Time will repair confi­dence, but time requires patience, which is not something markets have. 
Even if we do slip into a recession again, I would argue that it would not be a double dip, if only because the causes would be different. The recession that started in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 was caused by a housing bubble and deepened by a credit crisis. This time, the debt issues in Europe are the flavor of the week. If Greece defaults on its debt, it could drag down Portu­gal, Ireland, Italy, Spain and the entire European banking sector. International, not domestic, fears have been roiling markets lately. 
We may still be getting two scoops of ice cream, but the first one tastes like mortgage backed securities and the second like Greek bonds with a little spaghetti sauce on top. Anyone want sprinkles? 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Mike Lee fight week 
To the Student Body, 
It is plain that we love to win here at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, our Fighting Irish are still looking for their first one when they host the Spartans this Saturday. However, there is one Domer who will be competing here this week­end who has done nothing but win. I am talking about Mike Lee, of course. The recent Notre Dame grad is fighting in the main event of the first ever professional boxing match to be hosted on campus. Not only is there the fight Friday night starting at 9 p.m., but you can also see Lee work out Tuesday at 4 p.m. and his weigh-in Thursday at 5 p.m. on the Irish Green. This is a truly unique experience that we as the students of Notre Dame have an opportunity to take an active role in. 
One of the reasons Our Lady’s University is so special is that we have a proud history of sup­porting our own. This week is another chance to demonstrate that spirit. Whether or not you have any interest in boxing as a sport, I say we use this week to show Lee and all the people who will see highlights of the fight on NBC at half­time of the game Saturday that we will always cheer on a fellow Domer, especially one who perfectly exemplifies what it means to be the Fighting Irish because not only is he going to be fighting in the ring, but he is donating the profits from the fight to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Robinson Commu­nity Learning Center. 
In summary, if you like boxing, you should go. If you like new experiences, you should go. If you like helping others, you should go. And finally, if you like the University of Notre Dame, you should go. I hope to see the Joyce Center rocking come Friday night to help Lee stay undefeated. 
Sincerely, 
Will Peterson 
sophomore O’Neill Hall Sept. 11 

FSAD peer support group 
Are you experiencing: 
—Feelings of abject hopelessness? 
—Loss of interest in activities you once en­joyed? 
—Trouble eating/sleeping/working/finding the strength to carry on? 
—The sense that something is missing inside of you? 
—An inability to understand how everyone around you is able to cope? 
Like many of you, perhaps, I have experi­enced all of these symptoms in recent days.  If you have, you may be experiencing the onset of Football Seasonal Affective Disorder (FSAD). While this may seem like cause for concern, these feelings are common and treatable, and resources are available for your assistance. 
Football Seasonal Affective Disorder is a cyclic, seasonal condition. This means that signs and symptoms come back and go away at the same time every year.  If you’re like  most people with FSAD, your symptoms start in the early fall  and may continue into the winter months, occasionally until the beginning of January, sapping your energy and making you feel  moody. 
To assist individuals afflicted by this serious condition, the FSAD Peer Support Group has been established and will meet every Sunday afternoon following a football Saturday at St. Liam Hall.  I would encourage you to seriously consider attending these meetings, and please refer your friends in need. 
For more information, please visit University Health Services. 
In Notre Dame, 
Andrew Haley 
senior Knott Hall 
David Grau 
senior Knott Hall Sept. 11 


Outlined against a dark blue September sky ... 
Notre Dame reigned victorious this past weekend. No offense to Coach Kelly and the hard work of his entire team, but this is a contest that could not be won on any field, a contest no amount of turnovers could change the outcome of, for life is not just a game. Life is all we have. What I experienced this Sunday could have no proper post-game analysis. No television personality could critique it, for it truly was the work of the spirit, the work of the spirit of Notre Dame and the work of the Holy Spirit. On Saturday night, the entire campus, myself included, and the body that makes up the family of Notre Dame across the entire nation was looking out for one thing — itself. We were hoping, through means of a mea­ger game, to increase our stock in this world. But no simple game combated on the gridiron will ever truly be able to do such. 
Notre Dame reigned victorious this past weekend on Sunday night. Jesus was our quarterback, proclaiming “Touchdown” with arms spread wide open, exclaiming that he is “The Word of Life.” In the shadow of Rockne’s House, the Notre Dame community gathered together in memorial of all of those involved in what happened on Sept. 11, 2001. We followed Christ as he continuously leads not only the Notre Dame community, but all of humanity into “the endzone,” participating in the Paschal Mystery, Christ’s life, death and resurrection. 
As our community gathered there sharing the candlelight with one another, we literally shared the light of Christ.  We let go of our identity as the Fighting Irish and embraced our identity as members of the Body of Christ. In this gathering, we relinquished our desire for self-gratification and self-importance and found ourselves embracing the pain and sorrow of a world remembering tragedy. It is only in this losing of ourselves that we are truly able to become the people that we are created to be. That is what I felt on Sunday as we processed from the library to the Grotto. What I experienced as the trail of lights meandered to Our Lady made me more proud to be a part of the Notre Dame community than any athletic victory ever could. 
I offer up a great thank you to Fr. Jenkins, Fr. Malloy, the Con­gregation of Holy Cross and the Department of Campus Minis­try for allowing us this sacred expression of our identity as we learn to lose ourselves for the good of others. But there are many contests yet to be won. Let us continue to grow and be the light of Christ for one another, for other universities and for the world. Let us continue to pray for peace, and to remember all those that have suffered as the victims of terror, war, or any violence. 
Peace be with you all, 
Michael Urbaniak 
grad student Asst. Rector, Siegfried Hall Sept. 11 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 13, 2011 Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Schulberg presents “Nuremberg” years after its creation  
By MAIJA GUSTIN Over 60 years later, Sandra Schul­“The newly-reconstructed and Ms. Schulberg sees this as a sign Scene Editor berg is now presenting “Nuremberg” soundtrack gives you the feeling of be-of positive changes within the Obama to American audiences for the first ing in the courtroom, and — thanks administration toward the ICC. She Tonight, the DeBartolo Performing time. The process of restoring the film, to the fact that my father’s original writes, “My hope is that ‘Nuremberg’ Arts Center will be hosting a very spe­though, has been a painstaking one. narration told you verbatim what the will help awaken American interest in cial event, sure to be one of the hall-Ms. Schulberg’s first challenge was courtroom participants were saying — the legacy court of Nuremberg, which marks of its Fall 2011 season. At 7:30 finding an adequate print to use as we managed to do this without chang­really is the ICC, and want to become p.m., filmmaker Sandra Schulberg will the basis of restoration. She was de­ing the content of the original film,” involved as world citizens and as a na­present her restoration of her father’s termined that no film footage would be Ms. Schulberg writes. tion in supporting the international important documentary, “Nuremberg: changed, and after a lengthy search, The Notre Dame community has rule of law.” Its Lesson for Today.” she was provided with a high-quality been vital to the restoration and pre-Ms. Schulberg also believes that her The film follows the events of the in-print from the German Bundesarchiv. sentation of “Nuremberg: Its Lesson for father’s film contains a powerful anti-famous Nuremberg Trials, held over The sound provided another chal-Today.” Professor Jill Godmilow of the war message, one that she hopes con-the course of 11 months in the after­lenge to the “Nuremberg” restora-Film, Television and Theatre depart-temporary audiences will learn from. math of World War II. It is most notable tion team. Ms. Schulberg writes, “Our ment invited Ms. Schulberg to screen She writes, “The first Nuremberg Trial for the prosecution of various political goal was to create an international the unrestored version of the film sev­is probably best known for creating the and military leaders of the Nazi gov-soundtrack that would permit modern eral years back at Notre Dame. It was breakthrough indictment of ‘crimes ernment and for the use of the charge audiences to hear the voices of the Eng-through this screening and an asso­against humanity’ (Count 4), which of “Crimes Against Humanity” in re­lish-, French-, and Russian-speaking ciation with Professor Luc Reydams of had never been prosecuted before. But sponse to the Holocaust and other se­the Political Science Department that Jackson was even more focused on the rious offenses not prosecutable under the “Nuremberg” restoration received ‘crime of aggression’ (Count 1), the the charge of “War Crimes.” generous funding from the Nationaal very act of starting war … My father Marine Corps Sergeant Stuart Archief of The Netherlands. A final chose to end ‘Nuremberg’ with Jack-Schulberg, as well as his brother Budd philanthropic donation provided the son’s words to this effect: ‘Let Nurem-Schulberg, was asked by military of-final piece of funding and the restora­berg stand as warning to all who plan ficials to compile and provide much of tion began in full and Ms. Schulberg and wage aggressive war.’ Thus, I have the photographic and video evidence was able to present “Nuremberg” as come to see Nuremberg not only as used by Justice Robert H. Jackson part of the Erasmus Prize Ceremony in a compelling film about the conduct against the Nazi leaders in these tri­2009. of the trial — what some have called als. The head of film at the War De-Though Ms. Schulberg did not choose the greatest courtroom drama in his­partment’s Civil Affairs Division, Pare the title “Nuremberg: Its Lesson for To­tory — but also as a powerful anti-war Lorentz, then commissioned Schulberg day,” (it was the title of Stuart Schul­statement. I hope audiences take that to make a film of the Nuremberg Trials berg’s original film) it has proved rel­anti-war statement to heart.” themselves. evant yet. She writes, “I’d like to stress “Nuremberg: Its Lesson for Today” What came together was a fascinat­that I think Germany has learned the will be screened tonight at Notre Dame ing documentary that provided un­lessons of Nuremberg better than any in collaboration with Indiana Univer­precedented insights into the course other country in the world, including sity/Purdue University Fort Wayne, of the trial. It features not only footage the U.S. Germany is now in the fore-where the film will be presented Sept. from the trial itself, but also clips from front of support for the International 15. the Nazi films used by the prosecution Criminal Court, while the U.S. is not Steven Carr, Director of the Advanced to support their charges. Holocaust Studies at IU/P Fort Wayne, “Nuremberg: Its Lesson for Today” writes, “Given the tenth anniversary proved a remarkable glimpse into the of 9/11, this film is as powerful and as trial and the importance of the Allied timely as ever. If there were ever a time governments’ decision to hold a trial, to see a film about the importance of rather than execute Nazi war leaders. international human rights and learn Unfortunately, much of its significance in person from the daughter who went was lost on American audiences, who to the trouble to restore a film her fa-never had an opportunity to see the ther directed and that the American completed film. public should have seen but didn’t, the The film was suppressed by the U.S. tenth anniversary of 9/11 should be it.” government under ambiguous circum-The Notre Dame screening of stances. Sandra Schulberg writes, “Nuremberg: Its Lesson for Today” will “‘Nuremberg’ became a victim of the be held in the Browning Cinema at the Cold War. By the time it was completed DeBartolo Performing Arts Center to-in 1948, we were enemies with the So-Courtesy of Schulberg Family Archive night at 7:30 p.m. Sandra Schulberg viets, yet the film shows us as allies … will be present to screen her new res-In April 1948, the Marshall Plan was toration. enacted by the US Congress. Europe­an recovery was the new policy, and Marine Corps Sgt. Stuart Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu Germany’s industrial and agricultural Schulberg, youngest member of resources were essential to that recov­the OSS Field Photo-War Crimes ery. This public policy shift required unit, later wrote & directed a new public relations campaign that “Nuremberg: Its Lesson for On campus stressed the importance of rebuilding Today.” Germany and looking forward.” Pre­senting a film that might bring up bur­ied feelings about Nazi Germany sud-What: “Nuremberg: Its denly seemed counter-productive and prosecutors, and those of the German efforts were made to prevent the film’s witnesses, defendants and defense at-Lesson for Today” Courtesy of Schulberg Productions release. torneys.” In an effort to protect the legacy of Due to the footage obtained from the Where: DeBartolo her father’s work, Ms. Schulberg dis-original trials, Stuart Schulberg and covered a document that substantiates the other filmmakers working on the Sandra Schulberg, daughter Performing Arts Center these claims of governmental suppres­original “Nuremberg” had to insert of “Nuremberg: Its sion. She writes, “It is a letter from voiceover narration throughout much Lessons for Today” writer-When: Sept. 13, 7:30 p.m. Secretary of the Army Kenneth Royall, of the film to offer explanation not pre­director Stuart Schulberg, and it is addressed to Justice Jackson. sented by the filmed events. Therefore, restored the 1948 film with How Much: Free but Jackson had wanted the film made so much of the sound from the trial itself collaborator Josh Waletzky. that the whole world could see what was obscured by this narration. ticketed had happened at Nuremberg.” The let-Sandra Schulberg and her partner ter reads, “In this country no general on “Nuremberg,” Josh Waletzky, de-Learn More: release is under consideration. It is my cided to take original sound recordings even a member.” opinion that the theme is contrary to from the trial and add them with a new The U.S. Ambassador for War Crimes performingarts.nd.edu present policies and aims of the gov-narration, done by Live Schreiber, to Issues, Stephen Rapp, attended the ernment.” create the soundtrack. U.S. premiere of “Nuremberg” in June  



Courtesy of Actors of the London Stage LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 13, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 


The perfect crime 
After last night’s double­header, Week 1 of the NFL season is officially in the books. The weekend’s games offered a slew of memorable images, from the Packers game-ending goal line stand, to the Bills giv­ing Buffalo something to cheer about, to Kerry Collins look­ing really, really old in Indianapo­lis. However, the weekend will be remembered mostly for the remembrance and honoring of those affected by the terrorist attacks of 9/11. And with the eyes of the country on them in primetime, the Jets gave (at least half of) New York some­thing to cheer about with a dra­matic, fourth-quarter comeback win. 
Look a little closer at that highlight package though, and something very inter­esting can be seen. 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
only got worse in 2006, when he announced he would retire after the season. In October, the season came off the rails, and the fans saw Tiki as the main reason. 
Upon retirement, Barber started broadcasting and ripped into his former team­mates, while that team won a Super Bowl on a Plaxico Burress touchdown catch. 
Fast forward three years to this summer. Burress got out of prion and Barber unre­tired. Both were rumored to be headed back to the Giants. 
The fan and team reaction couldn’t have been more polar­izing. While the Giants and fans actively recruited a reformed Burress, people were lining up to rip Barber on sports radio. Barber was not signed by a single team this year. 
The conclusion seems to be this: Breaking the law can be forgiven, as long as an un­doubtedly heartfelt and sincere apology is given. But breaking the unwritten laws of the sport, like badmouthing teammates or cheating, cannot be forgiven. 
Examples of this 
can be seen in nearly 
Amid the national  What can be  every major sport. I  
anthem, flyover, and  written off? What  mentioned “wrong- 
South Quad-sized  is unforgivable?  doing in baseball”  

flag in the pregame was Plaxico Burress, carrying an American flag and leading the Jets out on to the field. In a way, that seems totally inappropriate, but it also seems somewhat fitting. 
After all, it was Plaxicolt .45 who broke the law, possessed an illegal firearm that fired in a crowded space, and was sen­tenced to a heavy prison term. But it was also Mr. Burress who served time, persevered and bounced back, admitting his mistakes. Isn’t that what America, the land of resilience and second-chances, is all about? The Jets faithful must have agreed, as they cheered Burress’ late touchdown grab as if he were Wayne Chrebet. 
Where is the line in the be­havior of professional athletes, our heroes and role models? What can be written off? What is unforgivable? The answer is a tricky one, and it’s a little surprising. 
This issue may be best illus­trated by contrasting Burress with his former teammate in New York, Tiki Barber. 
Barber was a very solid play­er, a career Giant, and holds every notable franchise rushing record. But Barber constantly feuded with teammates, spoke out in the media, and never seemed like a good locker room presence. Barber’s reputation to my friend, who is 
an MLB employee. He mentioned steroid-pushers Bonds and McGwire, gam­bling Pete Rose, and the 1919 Black Sox. Notably absent were recent felons Miguel Cabrera and Francisco Rodriguez, both of whom are making playoff pushes. 
And while Lebron James is unanimously the most hated player in the NBA, the league’s jersey sales have been led for the past two seasons by Kobe Bryant, who was accused of rape before a large settlement led to the dropping of a civil lawsuit. 
The NFL may be the worst offender though, where the suspension for a repeat steroid offense is the same as one for killing a pedestrian in a DUI. 
Don’t get me wrong. This is not a holier-than-thou piece, and I’ll be cheering the same as everyone else for these players, if not more. But athletes, there’s a lesson to be learned here. It’s okay to get arrested, to put others in harm’s way, to break the rules. Just don’t break the wrong ones. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the observer. 
Contact Jack at wheffero@nd.edu 
NFL 

Eagles face questions despite win 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — A con­vincing 18-point victory in the season opener would leave most teams feeling satisfied about their perfor­mance. 
Not the Philadelphia Ea­gles. Not this year. 
The Eagles have a long way to go if they’re going to ful­fill their goal of winning the Super Bowl. Beating the St. Louis Rams 31-13 on Sunday was a nice start. Still, there’s plenty room for improve­ment. 
“We’ve got a lot of things to work on after the game yesterday,” coach Andy Reid said Monday. “The players, I could tell by the comments that they were humble and they understand the situa­tion that we’ve got to contin­ue to get better.” 
The revamped defense struggled mightily against the run. St. Louis rushed for 154 yards, including Steven Jackson’s 47-yard touchdown on the Rams’ first play from scrimmage. 
The overhauled offensive line had problems protecting Michael Vick. He was sacked three times and took several hits. 
Vick was off, too, despite a solid all-around effort. He made several big plays, es­pecially scrambling, but also had his worst passing game (14 for 32) as a starter with the Eagles. Vick threw for 187 yards and two touch­downs, and ran for 100 until two kneel-downs cost him two yards. 
“The only thing I can dwell on right now is the things that we didn’t do so well,” Vick said. “I felt like he’s always done under pres­sure. He ran away from it. 

Teams had success blitz­ing the Eagles late last season and the Rams tried it. But Vick doesn’t plan to stay in the pock­et and absorb hits. 
“If teams want to do it each and every week, we’ll have counters for it or we’ll have ways to beat it,” he said. “That was part of the reason I was able to run for a 100 yards. I trained myself this offseason to be able to do that. So, how­ever it happens, however we get it done, that’s what it’s go­ing to be. I’m pretty sure we’re going to do a great job at get­ting better with the blitzing. It’s all about situations and putting guys in the right positions at that right time.” 
LeSean McCoy ran for 122 yards, including a game-seal­ing 49-yard score. DeSean Jack­son brushed aside all the talk 
I could “The only thing I can 
have done 
dwell on right now is the 
better. I’m 
things that we didn’t do 
thank-
so well. I felt like I could 
ful for the 
have done better. I’m 
victo ry, 
thankful for the victory, 
don’t get me wrong, don’t get me wrong, but but I could I could have been a little 
have been a cleaner and I told [coach] little clean-Andy [Reid] that.” er and I 
told Andy 
Michael Vick 
that.” 
Eagles quarterback 
With three new starters on about him not being happy because he doesn’t have a new contract, and caught six passes for 102 yards and one touchdown. 
“I think it speaks for the heart and de­termination I have to play this game re­gardless of off-the-field issues,” Jack­son said. “I’m nator Juan Castillo in his first game since switching over from coaching the offensive linemen. 
Led by Jason Babin, who was the first of the big-name free agents signed by the Eagles, the pass rush put plenty of pressure on Sam Bradford and took him down five times. 
Nnamdi Asomugha, the big­gest of the free-agent signings, wasn’t perfect. He committed a pass-interference penalty and allowed a long gain. But the star-studded secondary held the Rams to 181 yards passing and no scores. 
“It’s the first game and every­body is amped up and we just needed to calm down and just start to focus,” Asomugha said. “Early in the game, everybody was all over the place. They got that long run, and after a while, we started to calm down and it got better.” 
The Eagles stay on the road in Week 2 and have an even tough­er matchup in another dome when they face the defending NFC South champion Falcons (0-1) in Vick’s first game re­turning to Atlanta as a starter. 
Vick went to three Pro Bowls and led the Falcons to the 2004 NFC championship game in his six seasons in Atlanta be­fore he went to prison in 2007. He played at the Georgia Dome with the Eagles in 2009 when he was the No. 3 quarterback, and scored his first touchdown following his release from jail. 
“I was just getting back to football, not starting, so it was a bit emotional,” Vick said of his last visit. “This time, I think it’s going to be exciting. “It does feel different because I’m going to be out there four quarters, and that makes a difference. It defi­nitely makes a difference in the outcome of the game.” 
the offensive line, including a rookie center, and one start­er playing a new position, it’s going to take some time for the group to get used to each other. Vick did his best to handle blitzes by doing what 
here to work, I’m here to play football and do it at a high level. Any time I can go out there and perform and help my team win, I think it speaks for itself.” 
On the defensive side, it was a positive debut for new coordi-
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
“Draper? Who knows anything  
NOTICES  PERSONAL  WANTED  TICKETS  about that guy? No one’s ever lifted that rock. He could be Batman for all we know.”  Advertising is based on one thing: happiness. And do you know what happiness is? Happiness is the  
smell of a new car. It’s freedom  
from fear. It’s a billboard on the  
Everyone on campus is getting  cheap eats,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to  ADOPTION: ND/SMC family hoping to adopt again. Love, opportunity, security,  BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ ANY GAMES   side of a road that screams with reassurance that whatever you’re doing is OK. You are OK.  
movie tickets,  assist you. If you or someone you  devoted dad, at-home mom.  “That’s life... one minute you’re on  
love needs confidential support  No pressure or commitment.   top of the world, the next minute  
2 for 1’s and FREE stuff.   or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at  We work with Adoption professionals who can vouch for  some secretary is running you over with a lawnmower.”  You don’t know how to drink. Your  
Get yours too.   1-2685.  home study and FBI clearance checks. Contact Atty: Steven  -GAs only.  whole generation, you drink for the wrong reasons. My generation, we  
Kirsh (800)333-5736, or feel free to  drink because it’s good, because it  
e-mail us directly: neadoptagain@  feels better than unbuttoning your  
For more information, visit  gmail.com Facebook.com/  “I need you to go and get a  collar, because we deserve it. We  
TEXT IRISH1 to 99000  ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu  adoptionEJEllen TEXT or CALL: 317.473.7635   Call 574-277-1659  cardboard box. Then put your things in it.”  drink, because it’s what men do. Mad Men  

Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 


Romo shoulders blame for Cowboys collapse 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — All that time off watching from the sideline last season, all those offseason prac­tices he led, even getting married 
— none of it could shake Tony Romo from his habit of reckless gambles that turn into costly late-game mistakes. 
Twice in the final 10 minutes Sunday night, all Romo had to do was throw the ball away, or simply fall down. Had he done the smart, safe thing on either play, the Dallas Cowboys likely would’ve come away with a stun­ning start to their season. 
Instead, he fumbled 3 yards from the end zone and threw an interception that set up a field goal, leaving the Cowboys with a different kind of stunning finish: a loss to the New York Jets that marked the first time in 248 tries that Dallas couldn’t cash in on a fourth-quarter lead of at least 14 points — according to STATS LLC. 
“I cost us a football game,” Romo said afterward. 
Cowboys fans and critics took to the Internet and airwaves Monday to wholeheartedly agree, dredging up all his past mistakes. The tone of the bashings was that this meltdown is further proof Dallas will never win a Super Bowl as long as Romo is playing quarterback, that he’s too much of a gunslinger and not enough of a leader. 
Inside the locker room Monday, the view was completely different. 
Teammates insisted the Cow­boys wouldn’t have been in posi­tion to win had Romo not played so well the first 50 minutes, and that there were plenty of other mistakes that contributed to the loss. They also considered his mea culpa as proof that he is a leader. 
“That is him trying to create his identity and show, ‘I am going to be responsible for how far this team goes,’“ defensive end Mar­cus Spears said. “I think that is something he put on his shoulders and I personally like it. ... It will only help him to feel that way.” 
Linebacker Keith Brooking didn’t even know Romo took the blame, or that the quarterback has a reputation for making risky decisions with a game on the line. 
“That’s not the rap in this locker room,” Brooking said. “Who cares what everybody else thinks? ... That wasn’t Tony Romo’s loss. ... That’s not the way this team looks at it.” 
Brooking said Romo picked apart one of the best defenses in the league. He considered it as Romo continuing a roll that began in training camp. 
“I’ll take that guy over anybody in this league,” Brooking said. “Y’all might think I’m crazy, but I’m telling you right now, he’s go­ing to have an all-time year. He’ll probably shatter every record. ... I’ve seen enough football to know the guy’s ready for the next level.” 
Romo is 31 and going into his sixth season as a starter. His sto­rybook rise from an undrafted player to a Pro Bowler has been force a play he probably shouldn’t have tried. 


Having grown up in Wisconsin during Brett Favre’s heyday, it’s no surprise Romo is wired that way. But he also has the talent to make those kind of plays, which is why then-Cowboys coach Bill Parcells gave him a chance back in 2006. It’s worth noting that Ro­mo’s career passer rating of 95.5 is fourth best in league history; his 64.1 percent completion rate is eighth best. 
“His gift is his curse,” Parcells said Monday on ESPN. 
Romo cut way down on his mis­takes in 2009 and the Cowboys went 13-3, won the division and picked up his first playoff win. He broke a collarbone six games into a disappointing 2010 season, and has said his time on the sideline left him craving the competition. 
Jon Kitna did an admirable job filling in, sparking talk of what a great leader he was — and Romo wasn’t. But Romo took charge during the lockout, organizing workouts attended by more than 40 players. And the former gossip-rag cover boy disappointed single women everywhere by walking down the aisle this summer. 
Tight end Jason Witten broke into the league with Romo and remains a close friend. Nothing he saw Sunday night dimmed his opinion of Romo. 
“Obviously, it was a disap­pointing couple of plays, but that doesn’t define who he is,” Witten said. “We know what type of play­er he is, so we’ll get back on track. We have all the confidence in the world in him.” 
Witten said he has “no fil­ter” when talking to Romo, so he would tells his buddy if he thought the quarterback blew it. Witten described the emotion as “more of a disappointment than it is more anger, frustration toward him.” 
“I think that’s across the team,” he said. “That’s not just the tight end talking, or a teammate or a buddy. You go around this room there is a lot of confidence in him and what he does and what he creates for the team. Nobody is pointing the finger, and it’s not just saying the right thing. I think everybody in this room believes it.”As for Romo, he didn’t speak with local reporters Monday, but he did conduct a conference call with San Francisco reporters. He said he got home around 5:15 a.m. and was at team headquarters by 10 a.m. to start getting ready for the 49ers. 
“You have to get ready for the next one and we have to put that one behind us,” he said. “I have to come out and play my best game this week and make sure that what happened last week doesn’t happen again, and I’ll do that.” 
overshadowed by what he hasn’t done (1-3 in the playoffs), and how he hasn’t done it. A com­mon theme in all his disappoint­ing losses has been late-game turnovers, usually while trying to 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, September 13, 2011 
NBA 


Lockout reaches critical juncture as season nears 



Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A pivotal stretch in the NBA lockout be­gins Tuesday, when full bar­gaining committees return to the table. 
That could move players and owners closer to a new labor deal, but it also could send things in the wrong direction with time running down if more voices in the room leads to discord. 
Any setback now would di­minish hopes of the preseason opening without delay. 
“The reality is our training camp would be scheduled to start on Oct. 3rd I believe, and so if there’s any intention of try­ing to get that started on time, then we both have to figure some things out very quickly,” players’ association president Derek Fisher of the Lakers said last week. “That’s just the real­ity of the situation.” 
The process toward getting a new collective bargaining agreement seems to have got­ten back on track after three meetings in the past two weeks between top negotiators from each side. 
They decided their full com­mittees have to return before they can go any further, so the owners’ labor relations com­mittee and the union’s execu­tive committee were told to come to New York for a session Tuesday, and perhaps even Wednesday. That should more than double the number of peo­ple in the room from last week, when there were nine. 
On Thursday, both sides will report back to their member­ships, with owners meeting in Dallas and players headed to Las Vegas, where more than 40 are taking part this week in a series of games at the Impact Basketball academy. 
If things go poorly in New York, the message may include warnings that camps might have to be postponed, even though Commissioner David Stern said last week he didn’t expect any vote to be taken among owners Thursday. Nor would he say what he needs to hear before then to know if the schedule is in jeopardy. 
“We have no conditions of any kind,” he said. 
Stern hasn’t revealed much else, as both sides vowed to keep details of the process qui­et until a deal is done. Clearly intent on sticking to his word, he gave more than a half dozen one-word answers during two brief meetings with reporters last week. 
That has created a guess­ing game about how far along things really are, not only among fans and the media, but even with players themselves. 
“I wish that I was in a posi­tion to say we knew when NBA players would be back on the court and we’re getting close, but we’re just not at the point where we can make those type of statements,” Fisher said. “It wouldn’t be fair to the players, it wouldn’t be fair to the fans to get any false sentiments or hopes up at this point.” 
It’s even unclear if any new proposals have been made since owners locked play­ers out at the end of the day June 30. Fisher has said there haven’t, but Deputy Commis­sioner Adam Silver, the lead negotiator for the owners, indi­cated last Thursday that there have. 
The only certainty is that any adjustments to the 2011-12 cal­endar would have to be made sometime by late this month. The first postponements came on Sept. 24 during the 1998 lockout, when camps were scheduled to open Oct. 5. 
Large groups from each side haven’t met since late June, when players expressed frus­tration that owners were still sticking to points from their original proposal from back in January 2010. That included changes to the current salary cap system along with pay cuts and shorter contracts for the players. 
The process has been more cordial, even if not significant­ly more productive, with small­er groups. But Fisher said ex­panding them will allow both sides to know how to proceed going forward. 
“To think about where we were July 1 to now in terms of just the process itself, not what’s being discussed and what type of deal it will end up being, just the process itself, we’ve put in a lot of time,” he said. “And we’re going to try to continue that process and see if we can get a fair deal done as soon as possible.” 
Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 



Indoor 
continued from page 16 
outdoors there are so many other factors that can affect your play, like wind and sun,” senior Kristy Frilling said. “They may seem like not a big deal, but they can actually re­ally affect how you play. I’m from Ohio so I grew up playing indoor tennis — and I love it.” 
Senior Shannon Mathews agreed that adjusting to indoor tennis is a huge part of play­ing for Notre Dame and other schools with harsh weather. 
“A huge part of practice as well as most of our matches that we play toward the begin­ning of our season are indoors,” Mathews said. “It’s kind of un­fortunate because there’s a time or two when you’d like to be outside, but it comes along with going to school here.” 
The indoor game is much more difficult for players other than Mathews from southern areas. 
“For Julie and Britney and [freshman Katherine White] from Florida, California and Georgia, it’s probably been a little bit different because they’re used to going outside and being outside all the time, but in South Bend it’s a stinky winter and stinky weather for a lot of the year so you have to balance what you can do,” Mathews said. 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Holt 
continued from page 16 
“We’ve been focusing on short game drills and putting drills, because we can save a lot of strokes around the green,” Holt said. “We’ve also been trying to get our yard­ages down, especially with our wedges. You’re able to get that consistency through lots of repetition.” 
In addition to working on their swings, the Irish have also been working on their fit­ness. By building up their en­durance, workouts ensure they won’t come to the 18th hole ex­hausted after a day of playing and carrying a bag. 
“We’ve been working out ev­ery Monday, Wednesday, and Friday morning in the [Gug­lielmino Athletic Complex],” Holt said. “Each individual has been working on what they need to be ready, and we’re ex­cited about that.” 
The season opens in less than a week with the first chance to determine if the preseason practices prepared Notre Dame enough. Holt says that her team is chomping at the bit to begin tournament play, and is more than ready for another championship year. 
“This week, we’re just going to keep the same routine we’ve had going,” she said. “We’ve gotten out for practice rounds a couple of times a week, and I’ve liked what I’ve seen, but it’s not the same as tourna­ment play. We’re ready to get out there and start competing.” 
The Irish will open play at the Golfweek Conference Chal­lenge next Monday in Wolcott, Colo., at the Red Sky Golf Club. 

Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
NFL 


Brady torches Miami Defense 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Chad Henne had the best game of his Miami Dol­phins career. 
Problem was, so did the other former Michigan quar­terback on the field — turning a Monday night opener into a Monday nightmare for a Dol­phins’ defense that expected to rank among the NFL’s best this season. 
Tom Brady embarrassed the Dolphins’ secondary by throw­ing for a career-best 517 yards and four touchdowns — includ­ing a 99-yarder to former Mi­ami receiver Wes Welker to seal the game in the fourth quarter 
— and the New England Patri­ots beat Miami 38-24, handing the Dolphins their 10th loss in 11 home games dating back to December 2009. 
“It’s embarrassing. It’s em­barrassing. That should never happen,” Dolphins safety Yer­emiah Bell said when told of Brady’s final numbers. 
“It’s really embarrassing. It goes back to us challenging guys. That’s on us. We can give him credit for what he did, but at the same time we’ve got to go out and challenge guys. That’s the bottom line.” 
Henne completed 30 of 49 passes for 416 yards, 53 more than his previous best of 363 set last season. All for naught, thanks to Brady, the NFL’s unanimous MVP last season who picked up right where he left off. 
“We did some good things,” Henne said. “We have to watch the tape, see what we can cor­rect and get better at. The best thing about this is the team’s not quitting. Offensive guys, defensive guys, special teams, we didn’t quit out there.” 
Combined, the former Wol­verines threw for 933 yards in the game, the 906 yards of net passing one of numerous re­cords set Monday night. 
“Unfortunately, those num­bers don’t really matter,” Dol­phins receiver Davone Bess said. “We lost.” 
New England finished with a team-record 622 yards of of­fense, the most allowed by a Miami defense, the previous record being 597 against the New York Jets in 1988. 
“They made some plays on us,” Brady said. “We made a few more than them.” 
Brady completed 32 of 48 passes, and perhaps in the most ironic of footnotes, his NFL record for consecutive passes without an intercep­tion ended with 13:13 left in the third quarter when Jared Odrick grabbed a deflected ball and rumbled 40 yards to set up a Miami touchdown. 
Brady had thrown 358 straight passes without being picked off in a regular season game, a streak that began last October. 
By the end of Monday night, that mistake — and it wasn’t even his mistake — was long forgotten. 
So too, in many respects, was Henne’s spectacular night. Ac­cording to STATS LLC, it was the 16th time in Dolphins his­tory that a quarterback threw for at least 400 yards: Dan Ma­rino did it 13 times, and Joey Harrington and David Woodley both did it once. 
The game turned completely New England’s way with just under 6 minutes left in the fourth quarter. Henne’s fourth­and-goal pass from the 1 in­tended for Brian Hartline fell incomplete, and the Patriots took over. 
“The right play,” Henne in­sisted afterward. 
Maybe, maybe not. The next one, however, couldn’t be ar­gued. On the first play of the ensuing New England se­ries, Brady lofted the ball out to Welker, who took off on a 12-second sprint that ended up as the longest play from scrim­mage in Patriots history. 
It pushed Brady over the 500-yard mark, and sent Mi­ami fans flocking to the exits. 
“This is the first game, man,” Dolphins linebacker Karlos Dansby said. “We’ve got 15 more. Know what I’m sayin’? We’ve just got to play well from here on out. It’s just the first one.” 
Brandon Marshall finished with 139 receiving yards on seven catches for Miami. 
Henne also was Miami’s leading rusher with 59 yards and a touchdown, and Reggie Bush finished with 38 yards on 11 carries in his first regular-season game with the Dolphins. 
Bush and Hartline caught Henne’s touchdown passes. 
“We said it all week,” Dol­phins coach Tony Sparano said. “Big plays are going to kill you against this team.” 
The Dolphins had a star-studded series of pregame ceremonies, including orange-carpet arrivals for the likes of Fergie — a limited partner with the organization — and Hank Williams Jr. 
A statue of original Dolphins owner Joe Robbie was rededi­cated outside the stadium he built, and a flag was hoisted in honor of former Miami tight end and radio commentator Jim Mandich, who died of com­plications from cancer earlier this year. 
And like in every stadium that hosted NFL games Sunday, the night was tinged with pa­triotism. 
One day after the 10th anni­versary of the Sept. 11 attacks on New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, each fan was handed an American flag upon entering the stadium. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, September 13, 2011 

Maund 
continued from page 16 
accolades build his ego. 
“It’s definitely an honor. It shows how hard our team works, and you don’t get those awards without good teammates,” Maund said. “Now, it’s all about going out and proving you de­serve it.” 
On the international stage, Maund has proved he belonged on multiple occasions, first with the Trinidad & Tobago U-17 national team before joining the United States U-20 squad. Maund, whose father is Trinida­dian, has traveled to both Egypt in 2007 and South Korea in 2009 for the age-specific World Cups. 
“Egypt was nice, but South Korea was really cool. The tech­nology and the amount of people there were amazing,” Maund said. “The hotel we stayed in had the biggest underground mall in Asia in the basement.” 
For the U-20 World Cup, Maund was forced to miss five games during his sophomore cam­paign. Those matches marked a rare absence for Maund, who has started all 64 games he has played in for the Irish. 
“I don’t like sitting out of games,” Maund said. “It’s been tough but definitely rewarding.” 
Irish coach Bobby Clark ad­mired Maund’s athleticism and determination as a freshman, viewing it as a great base to be­gin with. Maund, Clark said, also received a glowing recommenda­tion from his high school coach. 
“He came highly recommend­ed from Paul Sugg, his coach at Roxbury Latin, who I knew since my days at Dartmouth,” Clark said. “Whenever he recommends a player, I take a serious look at him.” 
Clark netted Maund and sub­sequent Roxbury Latin product Leon Brown, currently a sopho­more forward for the Irish. 
While forward is a flashy, glo­rified position, central defense is an almost thankless and stat-less job. Maund has nevertheless en­joyed the position he has owned for the past three years at Notre Dame. 
“You can watch the game de­velop and see what’s going on [as a central defender],” Maund said. “I like having the ball and being comfortable. It’s kind of like a safety in football.” 
Maund is joined in the center of the pitch by Irish junior mid­fielder Dillon Powers, who joins Maund in a musical undertaking. 
Luck or Skill, consisting of Maund, Powers, Irish senior midfielder Michael Rose and Michigan State student Chris Burgess, is a hip-hop group that originated in Dallas and has mi­grated to the Midwest. They are currently working on their first mixtape, tentatively titled “Call it a Night.” 
Maund, a rapper in the group, counts Jay-Z and Kanye West among his influences along with old-school Motown music. 
“They are so into their music,” Maund said of the rap giants. “Some of the samples they use are really soulful.” 
Like Powers, Maund would like to extend his playing career into the professional realm af­ter Notre Dame, whether it be in America’s Major League Soccer or overseas in one of Europe’s many leagues. 
Wherever Maund plays, hope­fully they have an Olive Garden, so Maund does not need to disre­gard his pregame ritual. 
The Irish resume play Friday night when they welcome Michi­gan to Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Lead 
continued from page 16 
day,” Kubinski said. “But this year he seemed more relaxed and composed going into that final round. He just ran into a bad hole and pressed a lit­tle too hard afterward to try to make up for it.” 
Meanwhile, senior Max Scodro and sophomore Niall Platt led the Irish in individ­ual competition. They tied for eighth after shooting a 220 (+4) for the three rounds. Platt was Notre Dame’s most consistent player over the two days, finishing Sunday’s 36 holes with eight birdies to put him in seventh place with a 145 (+1). 
“It was good to see Max and Niall battle throughout,” Ku­binski said. “Being the first full-length tournament, the guys might have been a little worn down, but it was a good opportunity to see where we stand and what we still need to work on.” 
Scodro got off to a quick start in Sunday’s opening round after going two-under par but was shackled by a second round that featured five bogeys and one double-bogey. The senior rebounded from a rough second round Sunday to jump five spots on the leaderboard. 


The Irish will have a chance to bounce back Fri­day with the Olympia Fields Invitational at the Olympia Fields Country Club in Chi­cago, Ill. 
“We have got to get Paul and [senior Tom Usher] back to where they should be, and I think that they will do that this weekend at Olympia,” Kubinski said. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agaste11@nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, September 13, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S GOLF 
Case of the Mondays 
Irish give up four-stroke lead on final day at Gopher Invitational as Arkansas takes title 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fell from first to third in the final day of the Gopher Invitational in Way­zata, Minn. The Irish entered the closing day at Spring Hill Golf Course with a four-stroke lead, but a 20-over-par round of 308 left them five strokes behind champion and 10th­ranked Arkansas. 
The Irish quickly became tournament favorites af­ter posting a 282 (-6) on the opening 18 holes Sunday, for an eight-shot lead with two rounds remaining. They fol­lowed that effort with a 295 (+7) in the second round, be­fore losing the lead Monday. After entering the final day with the lead, Irish coach Jim Kubinski was disappointed to leave with anything less than the championship. 
“Going into this season it is a good way to start off, but it is how we gave up the lead that was disappointing for us,” Ku­binski said. “[Monday] we had gusty conditions with winds up to 25 m.p.h. so the margin of error became even smaller on that particular course, which is tough as it is.” 
The Irish were atop the team and individual leaderboards heading into the last round, led by a stellar effort from ju­nior Paul McNamara III. Mc­Namara fired off an opening round 66 (-6) highlighted by an eagle and seven birdies. He continued with a 73 (+1) in the second round to put him in first place at five-under with a single stroke advantage. But McNamara struggled in Mon­day’s final round, squander­ing the lead with six bogeys, two double-bogeys and a triple bogey that led to a 85 (+13). 
“Paul had a similar situation [at the College of Charleston Invitational] where he sort of gave up the lead on the second 
see LEAD/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Sophomores return for second year with increased confidence 
By VICKY JACOBSEN member team. Now that soph-That’s something we’ll contin-more pressure than I expected quicker when you’re inside. Sports Writer omores Jennifer Kellner, Jo-ue with this fall and I feel good it to be.” It’s a lot faster, for sure.” 
Hanna Manningham, Julie about it, since we only have While Sabacinski and her Sabacinski’s teammates — 
Freshman year of college is Sabacinski and Britney Sand-one freshman this year and we teammates faced more chal-even those who grew up in all about adjusting to a new ers have a full year of experi-have a lot [of athletes] return-lenging competition together, colder areas where indoor ten-lifestyle. But for freshman ten-ence at the collegiate level, ing.” the Florida native is one of the nis was a necessity for year­nis players, learning to love Irish coach Jay Louderback ex-Sabacinski agreed that she’s few team members who came round play — understand why dining hall food and dorm life pects the team to be stronger now more prepared to deal from an area where tennis playing on the indoor courts is far less a concern than get-physically and mentally. with the stress that accompa-could be played outside for the of the Eck Tennis Center can ting used to an entirely new “At the end of last year I nies matches. entire year, and was one of the be difficult for those from the way of playing tennis. Playing think our kids had really come “In pressure situations, I few who was unfamiliar with south. tennis as part of a team and a long ways as far as compet-think I’ll be ready way more playing indoors. “Playing indoors and out­playing inside can be equally ing,” Louderback said. “We had than I was last year,” Sabacin-“Coming here was the first doors are two completely dif­shocking at Notre Dame. so many freshmen that just ski said. “Tennis is a very in-time I ever played indoor ten-ferent games. When you play 
Last year’s squad had four weren’t used to college ten-dividual sport, and playing as nis; it was a big change,” Saba-freshmen — half of the eight-nis, and it takes them awhile. part of a team is hard. It’s a lot cinski said. “The ball is much see INDOOR/page 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Maund looks to back up awards 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer
 Before each game, Irish senior defender Aaron Maund takes a seat at Olive Garden. He orders mussels as an appetizer. Next comes the chicken parmesan as an entrée. And why change? 
The superstition has helped the Dorchester, Mass. native siz­zle as an All-American perform­er and assisted in cooking up a winning recipe for No. 17 Notre Dame (2-1-2). 
Maund was named a third-team All-American as well as an All-Big East performer prior to this season but refuses to let the 
see MAUND/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish sharpen skills as fall season approaches 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish arrived on campus just a few weeks ago, there was much work to be done at practice to prepare for the fall season. After being scattered around the country during the summer months, they needed to shake off the rust and getting back to play­ing winning golf. 
“With the fall season, we really try to get them back into the swing of things,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “They’ve all been doing dif­ferent things over the sum­mer, whether that be summer school, working or playing golf. So right now, we’ve just been trying to get their overall games ready.” 
Daily practices provided lots of time to bring back the team’s skill and prepare them for the season, which begins Monday at the Golfweek Con­ference Challenge in Wolcott, Colo. Holt employed several different drills to get her team on its game for the tourna­ment. 
see HOLT/page 13 





