
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Notre Dame takes down Air Force 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Students relished a record-setting 59-33 victory over Air Force on a balmy Saturday af­ternoon at Notre Dame Stadium. 
En route to the triumphant Irish win, spectators bore wit­ness to the most combined scored points in Stadium history and the most points scored by the Irish since 1996. 
Junior Kevin McDermott said he was ecstatic to see the of­fense let loose and blow out an opposing team. 
“Our offense performed really well, but we continued to strug­gle on defense defending the op­tion as we did last year against Navy,” McDermott said. “I was a bit disappointed that Air Force continued to draw the game out, and I do not think the score is representative of how much we dominated the game.” 
The comfortable atmosphere inside the student section was something never experienced before, McDermott said. 
“Finally being able to win comfortably was awesome,” McDermott said. “From doing push-ups on just about every of­fensive drive to participating in the wave in the third quarter, a cheer generally reserved for the fourth quarter if we are well ahead, [the experience] was amazing.” 
With the convincing perfor­mance Saturday, McDermott ex­pects a victory against archrival USC. 
“Seeing our offense perform at a high level this week, I think we should win,” McDermott said. “I just hope our secondary can stand up to USC’s high-oc­tane offense.” 
Saturday’s victory was one of the most important of the year because of the upcoming night game with the Trojans in two weeks, sophomore Mara Stolee said. 
“A blowout victory was exactly 


see AIRFORCE/page 3 






Rugby team prepares for intercollegiate season 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
For sophomore Greg Allare, the challenges of playing on the Notre Dame men’s rugby club team are outweighed by the friendships between its team members. 
“The guys I play with and the fun of the sport make every hour of work worth it,” Allare said. 
The team consists of approxi­mately 50 students who practice year round and play non-divi­sional games in the fall and the College Division IA in the spring. 
Allare said the practices and games are often demanding. 
“Rugby is not a small com­mitment,” he said. “The physical toll alone is huge, not to mention the countless hours on the field and in the weight room that [the sport] requires to play at a high level.” 
Junior Ryan Mitchell agreed that one of the biggest challenges of the sport is recovering from a game. 
“Everyone on the field just takes a beating, so it’s really hard to get up the next morning when you can’t walk,” he said. 
The team has a busy practice schedule during the week and plays games on Fridays or Satur­days. 
“We practice three times a week with a workout on Tuesday and then a yoga session on Thurs­day,” Mitchell said. “Although we have something going on every day, people miss practice due to class work occasionally, and the coaches understand.” 
Because the team’s intercolle­giate season occurs in the spring, junior David Penberthy said the commitment will increase next semester. 
“Last year, we came back a week early from Winter Break and stayed on campus for Spring Break to make sure we were sharp,” he said. 
Penberthy said the team has been performing well in recent years. 


see RUGBY/page 4 

Marching band wins music award 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 

Though Notre Dame was awarded the 2011 Sudler Trophy, Notre Dame Marching Band Di­rector Ken Dye said the award represents years of dedication from band members and staff. 
“The Sudler Trophy is for a band that historically has been at the forefront of college bands in terms of music, innovation and supporting the American way of life,” Dye said.  “We’ve worked hard over a number of years with the band members who have gone through the program and with the past directors of the program.  Winning the trophy is a huge achievement.” 
The trophy was officially pre­sented at halftime during Satur­day’s football game against Air Force. The trophy, presented by the John Philip Sousa Founda­tion, is the top national honor for collegiate bands. It can only be received once, and the receiving program keeps the award for two 

see TROPHY/page 6 
Students raise funds for clean water 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
The women of Howard Hall raised close to $3,500 for The Water Project, a non-profit or­ganization that provides dis­tressed communities with ac­cess to clean water, during the third annual Totter for Water on Thursday and Friday. 

From 5 p.m. Thursday un­til 5 p.m. Friday, participants teeter-tottered for half-hour shifts on South Quad in order to solicit donations to build a well in Africa. 
“We have girls out there all 24 hours signed up to take shifts,” sophomore and How­ard Hall president Claire Rob­inson said. “It brings attention to [the fundraiser], and we ask that people donate in order to totter. It’s kind of an attrac­tion.” 
People also donated online, sophomore Sarah Cahalan, one of Howard Hall’s service com­missioners, said. Online dona­tions made before the event 
see WATER/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Post-graduate service in Peace Corps page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Interview with Gentlemen Hall page 8 u Men’s soccer ties with UConn page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Monday, October 10, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST MIDTERM STUDY SNACK? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Molly Sammon Nicole Toczauer Jack Hefferon Christian Myers Walker Carey Graphics Scene Dan Azic Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Suzanna Pratt Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 77 LOW 68 


Andrea Buechler  Brendan  Diana Yu  Willem Tax  Tomas Mann  Christina Murray  
Melchiorri  
freshman  junior  junior  freshman  sophomore  junior  
Farley  Sorin  Howard  Sorin  Stanford  Pangborn  
“Chocolate chip  “Peanut M&Ms  “Nutella and  “I don’t study for  “Puppy chow.”  “Gummy bears  
granola bars.”  or roasted  Pretzels.”  midterms, but I  and Dr. Pepper.”  
pikachu.”  like Rollos.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Smugglers release swarm of bees to deter police 
ANKARA, Turkey — A Turkish news agency says suspected smugglers set loose a swarm of bees on 15 police officers searching for contraband cigarettes hid­den among a truckload of hives. 
The state-run Anatolia agency says police, acting on a tip, stopped the truck in the southern city of Ad­ana on Sunday. The alleged smugglers then set some of the bees free to prevent po­lice from searching the ve­hicle. 
Purina designs commercials that grab attention of dogs 
ST. JOSEPH, Mo. — Nestle Purina PetCare is releasing what it says is the first tele­vision commercial designed to appeal to dogs. 
The company told the St. Joseph News-Press that ani­mal behavior experts at the Nestle Purina Product Tech­nology Center in St. Joseph, Mo., helped it develop the commercial aimed at selling Beneful dog food. 
The ad will be shown in Austria. 
Man sues for injuries related to Christmas wreath hunt 
WEST BLOOMFIELD TOWNSHIP, Mich. — This Thanksgiving could be a little uncomfortable for one Michigan family after a Detroit-area man hurt in a hunt for a Christmas wreath sued his in-laws. 

A Michigan appeals court has overruled a trial court judge and said the lawsuit filed by Christopher Karim should go to a jury. 
Karim had left work early to help with Christmas dec­orations at the West Bloom­field home of his in-laws, Salman and Regina Konja. 
He was in the attic look­ing for a wreath when he stepped on drywall in­stead of plywood and fell to the garage floor. The ap­peals court’s decision says Karim’s mother-in-law had just said, “No, don’t step there.” 
The decision doesn’t de­scribe Karim’s injuries. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 

The coffee house in Ged­des Hall will host a panel discussion, “Going Where You Are Needed but Not Nec­essarily Loved,” from 12 to 
1:20 p.m. today. The panel will present the overseas experiences of life-long mis­sionaries and discuss the transformations that mis­sionary efforts have under­gone. 
The Hayes-Healy cen­ter will host a colloquium, “Statistical Challenges in Merging Longitudinal Co­hort Data,” from 4 to 5 p.m. today in Room 127. The col­loquium is sponsored by the Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics. 
The lecture, “A Walking Guide for Virtual Shake­speare,” will be held in the Digital VIsualization The­atre of the Jordan Hall of Science from 4:30 to 6:30 
p.m. today. 

Tonight at 7:30 p.m. Au­thor Grant Bailie  will read from his book, “Tomorrow­land,” in the Welsh Parlor of the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary’s. Following the reading, Bailie will be available for a question-and -answer session and book signing. Books will be avail­able for purchase. 
The workshop, “Presenta­tion Zen,” will be held in the Notre Dame Room of the La-fortune Student Center from 2 to 3:15 p.m. tomorrow. The workshop will teach techniques for improving powerpoint presentations. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 









HIGH 76 LOW 54 
HIGH 70 LOW 54 

HIGH 65 LOW 50 
HIGH 58 LOW 45 

Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Students seek post-graduate service in Peace Corps 
pating in the Peace Corps. 
“I work in a small enterprise development program, teaching management, marketing and ac­counting skills to artisans like basket weavers and painters,” he said. 
Warnock also teaches infor­mation technology courses at a local high school in a computer lab he established and runs an English club for middle and high school students. 
Warnock said he was not sure what he wanted to do after grad­uation, and the Peace Corps is a great place to learn about your­self. 
“I was an accounting major and now most of my friends are working for a big firm, and I knew that really wasn’t for me,” he said. “Peace Corps is a pretty good place to find yourself. It gives you a lot of time for reflec­tion and to think about what you want out of your life.” 
Marilyn Blasingame, a cur­rent senior, applied for the Peace Corps. 
“I’m really interested in the program and could learn a lot from it,” she said. 
Blasingame is open to several places if accepted into the pro­gram, but hopes to serve in a Russian-speaking country. 
“I’m really open to where I’ll serve, but I currently take Rus­sian, and want to serve in a Russian-speaking country,” she 
By ANA BOARINI 
News Writer 
In honor of the 50th anniver­sary of the Peace Corps, the Cen­ter for Social Concerns hosted a unique networking event that brought together Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Peace Corps alumni and prospective volun­teers Friday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
2009 Notre Dame graduate Bill Warnock is currently serv­ing with the Peace Corps in Alakamizy-ambohimaha, Mad­agascar. Warnock spoke with current students about partici-




Water 
continued from page 1 
accounted for almost $2,700 of Totter for Water’s total pro­ceeds. 
Approximately 90 Howard residents and 50 others partici­said. 
Deputy Director of the Peace Corps Carrie Hessler-Radelet said Notre Dame students make ideal Peace Corps volunteers. 
“Notre Dame’s commitment to social justice, your commitment to community based learning, your commitment to research and study of humanity all con­tribute to the goals of world peace and encouraging service among your students,” Carrie Hessler-Radelet said. “So I would say that Peace Corps and Notre Dame share the same guiding principles.” 
The Peace Corps guiding prin­ciples are to help the people of interested countries in meeting their need for trained men and 
pated in Totter for Water over the course of 48 shifts, Cahalan said. 
Robinson said she was im­pressed with the number of peo­ple that stopped by the event. 
“I even went out there at 4:30 in the morning and we had peo­ple out there,” she said. 
Howard Hall hosted African-themed events last week to pre­pare for Totter for Water, Rob­inson said. 
“We had African Mass [and] a speaker come talk to us about his work with the wells,” she said. “Then we also had African desserts and a water documen­tary, and finally we had a little kick-off party with the dorm mascot.” 
The speaker, Stephen Silli­man, professor of civil engi­neering and geological sciences, spoke to Howard Hall residents Monday about his experience building wells in Benin, Caha­lan said. 
Robinson said Silliman’s talk caused her and the service com-


Airforce 
continued from page 1 
what we needed,” Stolee said. “It has been a while since we had an exciting football experience.” 
Stolee said it is imperative for both the team and student body to keep up the high emotions in preparation for the Trojans. 
“Because we did so well early in the game, the excitement lev­el went way down as the game progressed because the out­come was clear,” Stolee said. “I hope the atmosphere will be just as electric for the USC game as it was for Air Force because of the importance of it and its histori­cal significance.” 
Notre Dame’s convincing vic­tory impressed sophomore Mi­chael Vella.
 “It was nice to see Notre Dame finally put away an op­ponent convincingly,” Vella said. “Moreover, it was also huge for the fans so we can have a con-women, to help promote a bet­ter understanding of Americans on the part of people served and to help promote a better under­standing of other peoples on the part of Americans, she said. 

“Today at the Center for Social Concerns, I was told that 10 per­cent of the Notre Dame popula­tion goes overseas in some type of service, and that’s incredible,” she said. “I don’t know another school that has such a high per­centage of students that are that interested in international vol­unteering and service, and so it is exactly the same kind of stu­dents [the Peace Corps] wants.” 
Contact ana Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.com 

missioners to consider donating Totter for Water’s proceeds to a nation in western Africa, but they did not decide what specif­ic country or village the dona­tions will benefit yet. 
“Previously, we have desig­nated which village or country we want the well built for, but we haven’t made the decision yet this year,” Robinson said. “I think we’re going to try to establish ourselves within the community and donate to the same well every year, but I hon­estly don’t know.” 
Robinson and Cahalan said the event raised more money this year than in past years. 
“The past two years that we’ve done it [the fundraiser] made about $1,000 online, and we made $2,693 [this year], so that was really exciting,” Caha­lan said. “Lots of people were coming by and interested in what we were doing.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at                    miati@nd.edu 

fidence booster going into the USC game.” 
Vella enjoyed seeing second-string players, including quar­terback Andrew Hendrix, find success on the field. 
“Everybody was in high spirits the entire game because there was no doubt in our mind that we were going to win, which is rare,” Vella said. “Because of this, it was nice to see [Irish coach Brian Kelly] put in some of the guys who do not see the field that often.” 
Freshman Cailin Gillespie was pleased with the positive outcome of the game. 
“I fully expected the Irish team to win, and it was nice for me to see them finally follow through,” Gillespie said. “The first half was especially excit­ing, as it was the first time this season I heard people complain about the number of touchdown push-ups we were doing.” 
Contact adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Monday, October 10, 2011 
Sodexo provides food for local charities 
By CECILIA GLOVER 
News Writer 
Though most Saint Mary’s students turn to dining service Sodexo for their daily physical nourishment, the company also takes time to work with stu­dents to nourish the bodies of those less fortunate in the local South Bend community. 
Sodexo makes a point of help­ing and encouraging students to reach out and support local and school-run charities, General Manager Barry Bowles said. Yet the community of Saint Mary’s students, not the company, pow­ers much of this goodwill. 
“Most of the time, it’s not So­dexo that gives to charities . it’s the students,” Bowles said.  “For example, the students will give away a meal swipe to help raise money for starving children in Africa.” 
Sodexo often has food left over that the staff would rath­er give to charities than throw away, he said.  When students leave on holiday or when the food does not get eaten, Sodexo will transport it to local chari­ties such as the homeless shel­ter in South Bend. 
“Students come to me all the time, asking if I can help con­tribute food to their charity,” Bowles said. “Dance Marathon and Belles for Africa are two charities Sodexo supports.” 
Sodexo contributes food to Dance Marathon, and often­times a large share of that food is leftover at the end of the night, Bowles said. In this case, Sodexo will pick-up the food and transport it to the homeless shelter as a donation in Dance Marathon’s name. 
“The students do all the work. All we are doing is dropping the food off,” Bowles said.  “Does Sodexo do a lot of work? Yes, but overall the students do the majority of work.” 
Sodexo consistently contrib­utes large donations to Red Cross, Hands Across America and other charities. However, Sodexo likes to support student efforts and student charities above anything else. 
“How can we help students?” Bowles said. “What can we do to help their charitable givings? That is what Sodexo aims to do.” 
Two times throughout the year, Sodexo donates a signifi­cant amount of food to the South Bend Center for the Homeless. These donations are given dur­ing fall break and winter break. 
“When the students leave for break, the food just sits in the coolers and the perishable items go to waste,” he said. “To prevent this from happening over long breaks, we take the food and give it to people who are actually going to use it.” 
The dining company may be a separate entity from the Col­lege, but Bowles said the group is considered part of the school. 
“We have been here for 56 years,” Bowles said. “When we do things like this, we want it to be known that Saint Mary’s is the overall contributor to the community. In essence, it’s not really Sodexo. It’s Saint Mary’s and it’s the students.” 
Contact Cecilia Glover at  cglove01@saintmarys.edu 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

The rugby team fosters bonds between athletes on the team and allows them to meet people outside of their dorms. 
Rugby 
continued from page 1 
“Since our coach, Sean O’Leary, got here four years ago, we’ve been on quite a rise,” he said. “We started out in Division II and have made our way up to Division IA, the highest level of college rugby.” 
Last year the team had a 3-3 record, beating LSU, Ohio State and Tennessee. 
The team is 0-2 this season, with losses to Davenport and Air Force. 
“This year may be more of a challenge because we lost 16 se­niors and are breaking in a mul­titude of freshmen and new play­ers,” Penberthy said. 
Allare, who joined the team in August, said the unfamiliar rules are the greatest struggle of learning the sport. 
“Rugby is great because it is an easy sport to pick up, but there’s still a lot of rules that I’m sure I break every time I play,” he said. “I’m not too worried though be­cause I’ve only been playing the sport for six weeks.” 
Despite the challenges, Allare said joining the team was the best decision he has made since he has been at Notre Dame. 
“I can’t tell you how happy I am that I decided to join the team,” he said. “I just started playing, and I already am great friends with the entire team.” 
Mitchell agreed that the most rewarding aspect of rugby is meeting new people. 
“You meet kids that aren’t in your dorm or your classes,” he said. “It’s a different group of guys.” 
Allare said the team has al­ready improved an incredible amount over the past few weeks. 
“We play with a lot of heart and passion and we know that’s what is going to get us some huge wins in the end,” he said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Panelists encourage Notre Dame students to follow their passions 
By MARIELLE HAMPE 
News Writer 
When Notre Dame men’s la­crosse head coach Kevin Corri­gan began his coaching career, he knew he was dedicating his life to something he loved. 
“Find that thing you want to do,” Corrigan said. “Do some­thing you’re passionate about.” 
Life after college may be un­certain and expectations of stu­dents are high, but Corrigan and three other panelists encouraged students to follow their passions and make their dreams a reality during Friday’s panel, “Discern­ing Vocation in a World of Ex­pectations,” held after a lacrosse scrimmage and live concert at Arlotta Lacrosse Stadium. 
When panelist Eric Bying­ton, current assistant director of women’s rights organization Calling All Crows and founder of the Elias Fund, worked for a mortgage company, he quickly discovered he lacked passion for his job. 
“It was draining my soul in a lot of ways,” he said. 
Byington quit his job and be­gan the Elias Fund, a nonprofit organization that raises money to alleviate poverty and pay for children’s schooling fees in Zim­babwe. 
“I traveled for three months in Africa, and what struck me most were the people’s friendships and relationships,” he said. 
During his travel, Byington learned an African saying, “I am strong if you are strong.” 
“This saying embodied every­thing I was experiencing in Zim­babwe. It means together we’re all going to be stronger,” he said. 
The Elias Fund practices this saying as it works to strengthen the people in poverty-stricken Zimbabwean communities. 
“We can’t stop learning,” By­ington said. “Higher education is important, but there is so much to learn from world experience.” 
All panelists said they had to take risks to follow their pas­sions. Panelist Peter Friedman, Emmanuel College lacrosse as­sistant coach and co-founder of Triskallian Tours, encouraged students to evaluate risks before beginning a new project. 
“You’ll have to take risks,” he said. “You have to be willing to work twice as hard in the begin­ning to get a new project start­ed.” 
Friedman’s risk was to start Triskallian Tours, an education-al-travel and community service program that takes high school students to various locations in Latin America. 
Panelist Kevin Dugan, manag­er of Youth and Community Pro­grams in the Notre Dame Ath­letic Department and director of men’s lacrosse operations, also discussed the risks new projects require. 
“My father said, ‘The person who never took a risk, no one knows his name,’” Dugan said. “To take a risk, you have to throw your heart over the fence. How much do you believe in yourself? Are you willing to bet on your­self?” 
Dugan’s love for lacrosse led him to found Fields of Growth, an organization that encourages passion through lacrosse and promotes community growth in Uganda. 
This Christmas, Notre Dame seniors Nick Gunty and Brian Powers will go to Uganda with Dugan’s Fields of Growth orga­nization to record a CD with a Ugandan children’s choir. Gun­ty and Powers, who sang and played guitar before the panel discussion, are following their passion and plan to pursue a ca­reer in music after graduation. 


Notre Dame’s Gender Rela­tions Center (GRC) and the Notre Dame men’s lacrosse team spon­sored the panel. 
“In college, there is lots of pressure for students to perform well, lots of anxiety for students to decide who they are,” GRC As­sistant Director Elizabeth Mori­arty said. “Collaborative events like the panel discussion provide a forum for people to discern a sense of identity and talk about important issues.” 
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 
Trophy 
continued from page 1 
years. 

Head drum major senior Matt Roe said winning the trophy felt amazing. 
“I was actually in the band building when we received the phone call saying that we were going to be awarded the trophy,” he said. “The excitement was one of the coolest things I’ve ever seen.” 
Roe said that the band’s great­est strength is the commitment of its members. 
“There are times when we’re learning three different shows at the same time,” Roe said. “Just to be able to remember it all, and to go to practice every day with the frame of mind that we’re going to have fun at practice while still keeping in mind that we have a job to do is a challenge. The com­mitment of everyone involved is inspiring, and it’s a lot of fun to perform at every football game.” 
Dye said the band focuses on developing a halftime show that can reach every demographic within the audience. 
“We focus on continual innova­tion, and we try to do things that visually connect to the audience,” Dye said.  “If we do something on the field, the audience can try to guess what it is and to partici­pate in the show as it evolves. We also try to pick music that is ap­pealing to all of the generations of Notre Dame fans, with a par­ticular focus to the music that is appealing and recognizable to our students.” 
Senior piccolo player Laura Taylor said the band’s motto en­capsulates the spirit of the band and was a big part of what makes the band special. 
“The band’s motto is tradition, excellence and family,” Taylor said. “We have such a great love for Notre Dame, and that infuses everything we do. We are really cognizant that we are represent­ing the University, and we all really love the tradition that we are continuing. The camaraderie in the band also motivates us to work hard at everything we do.” 
Dye said the band will contin­ue innovating and working hard. 
“Music is one of those things at which you never can really achieve perfection; you’re always working to do it better,” he said. “We try to stay abreast of the changes in music and the current events that can be adapted to vi­sual formations on the field. We intend to get better every year.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, October 10, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Object lesson for writers 
I am currently suffering from a hor­rific case of writer’s block. I honestly feel as though I have nothing to say. Anyone who has ever had this problem knows that it is ugly. 
What makes my predicament even worse is midterms. I have about seven papers that need to be written. The prompts stare at me, taunting, how­ever, I don’t know where to start. 

I feel almost physical dis­comfort know­ing there are all these words inside me. They want to burst out onto the page, but my fingers just won’t move. 
I feel like my beloved Mac (we’ll miss you Steve) is looking at me with a pitying expression. 
As the clock ticks, and my dead­line comes closer, I’m starting to feel the pressure. There is tension in my shoulders and I know I look like a crazy person the way I’m crouched over my laptop. 
What’s most frustrating is I’m always the girl with a story. I whip papers out in less than an hour and can write an Inside Column in about fifteen minutes. 
But not this column. This column has been like pulling teeth. When I volunteered to write it, I knew I would think of something. However, I still can’t come up with a topic. 
I tried writing about the beautiful fall weather. Or about how my sister just got into the University of Wyo­ming. 
I tried to describe how excited I was to go home for fall break and actually get a full night’s sleep. I am so desper­ate for a topic I even described the turkey sandwich I just ate, which was delicious. 
I’m frantic here. Nothing I write is good enough and every sentence I write falls flat on the page. I’ve prob­ably deleted hundreds of words at this point. 
As the clock ticks, each second falls on me like a ton of bricks. My deadline is looming and I have nothing to say. There goes another second of wasted writing time. 
My freshman year, one of my fa­vorite professors of all time, Dr. Bill, said to get through writer’s block, you just have to push through and keep writing. Well, Dr. Bill, I’m trying and FAILING. 
It’s almost like I’ve run out of stuff to talk about. With all the topics in the world and the amazing stories out there, I can’t find something to write about. 
I’ve switched up my music choice in an attempt to get inspired, but it’s not working. I even took a walk around in an attempt to get the creative juices working. 
But, alas, here I sit with a look of panic on my face and nothing to say. 
I guess what this column taught me is that Dr. Bill was right. Even when you have nothing to say, and the writer’s block is actually painful, if you keep putting pen to paper, eventu­ally the words will come. 
Contact Anna Boarini at      aboarini@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Notre Dame loves diversity 
No one can, or would, say that diver­sity is a horrible thing, nor can anyone say that our university does not have diversity. Our campus is abundant with diversity! 
Cultural clubs abound, continually Hien Luu and putting on fascinat-Edithstein Cho ing cultural shows 
— even our dining Asiatic Gaze halls join in with attempts at Mexi­can, Indian, Greek and Vietnamese cuisines. 
Not only do we offer American danc­ing for freshmen, but we also have Latin dancing to spice up our steps and swivel our hips. We can all say that we have at least one friend — or at least an acquaintance — who is not of the same race. 
Some of us can also say that we have experienced other exotic cultures through study abroad programs, such as the miniature Notre Dame in Lon­don. We also have a great fascination with Africa. We are just so exception­ally inclusive. 
“Diversity is at the heart of our university,” Father Jenkins said in a diversity video shown to half-awake freshmen in Contemporary Topics. 
He is implying that not only do stu­dents embrace the different cultures here on campus with enthusiasm, but the administration also actively works toward fomenting the kind of inclusive environment that would allow for such differences to thrive. 
It is evident that the University of Notre Dame has been working towards this statement. 
Diversity is one of the topics covered during freshmen orientation. “Diver­sity Day” during Contemporary topics and “Practicum in Diversity Training” recruits from the student body to lead the freshmen in the topic. 
We have Multicultural Student Pro­grams & Services and an abundance of other cultural groups dedicated to sup­porting historically underrepresented students on campus. 
These groups provide opportunities for the entire Notre Dame community to become aware, learn and fully ap­preciate the beauty in differences. 
However, what does overall partici­pation for such opportunities tell us? What about the existence of ignorance and intolerance toward other cultures and races? 
What about the fact that many mi­norities want to transfer out of Notre Dame during their first years at the university? Such factors should compel us to ask if diversity really is at the heart of Notre Dame. 
On Apr. 23, 2009, Scholastic pub­lished the article, “The Diversity Dilemma.” A student named Phan expressed her concerns about ethnic diversity through student attendance in cultural events. 
She said, “At cultural events, you don’t see as many white people unless they’re with another Asian person who has forced them to come or another black person who has forced them to come.” 
It’s not like they see it as an op­portunity to branch out outside their circle and experience something new that they’ve never been able to expe­rience before. I’m pretty sure many white people here haven’t tried to do anything that’s part of a real culture’s experience. It just doesn’t seem like a priority for them.” 
The article expands on how “mem­bers of cultural clubs believe this [lack of a diverse audience] rises less out of cultural hostility than out of compla­cency and, in some cases, apathy for cultural diversity.” 

If we claim diversity matters, then how much it is embraced also mat­ters. The attendance rate for cultural events is only a surface reflection, yet is extremely revealing. 
Not much has changed in the social scene of these events over the past two years. 
Who is asking how the students of color feel on this campus? Do we ever actively engage our diverse population to gauge how they feel? How sincerely do we care? 
From our month of existence under the name Asiatic Gaze, we have been approached by many caring members of our community. 
Their support gives us hope, but it’s not our intention to feel secure in lov­ing words of those who already know what’s going on. 
It is more essential for us to create space for dialogue with those who do not see why they should think about diversity at all. 
We want to engage those who are apathetic or even hostile toward us, and what we fight for. It is rather ambi­tious and might even be a wild-goose chase. 
Yet, on another dimension, we feel that our voice might somehow let oth­ers know that they are not alone. 
Who knows if our voice will em­power future Domers to speak up for themselves? Let’s not have our future generations have to work hard to ex­cavate the marginal voices within our times. 
Hien Luu can be reached at hluu@nd.edu and Edithstein Cho can be reached at echo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-life memorial is worthwhile 
Elizabeth Chaten’s idea of a Tomb for the Unknown Child on campus (“Tomb for the unknown child,” Oct. 
7) presents a great opportunity to perpetually honor all those who have been killed through the horror of abor­tion. 
As already stated by Miss Chaten, the pro-life displays on campus do not simply signify an effort to end an un­just and immoral policy, but to remember the murder of countless numbers of innocent children. 
What better way to offer our acknowledgement than to dedicate a tomb for all those who have died and will be killed until Roe vs. Wadex is overturned? 
Financing the project should be easier than beating Purdue — just call back all the alumni who were out­raged over the commencement invitation of President Obama. 
Tell them that we want outsiders to know we are a thoroughly pro-life university, and we want their help to display this message. 
This living memorial may provide a visible sign to outsiders who doubt our level of Catholicism and see more conservative institutions like Franciscan University (which does have a Tomb of the Unborn Children on cam­pus already) as more Catholic. 
This may also help be a witness our passion for justice and prayer as well. It may also serve as a reminder to students that are wrapped up in the business of college to take time to remember those who have not been fortunate enough to experience the life and happiness that we have. 
Notre Dame’s commitment to uphold the mission of Je­sus Christ and to help those who cannot help themselves remains strong. 
The visible presence of Christ in every dorm chapel, the dedication of so many students to serve the world and actions taken by Fr. Jenkins recently in support of the pro-life cause offer a few reasons to believe Notre Dame’s Catholic identity remains intact. 
Adding a memorial on campus that forever honors the lives of the unborn will provide a further example of our commitment to valuing life and upholding the human dignity of all people. 
Christopher Lushis 

Class of 2010 Brighton, Mass. Oct. 9 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

WEEKLY POLL 
Over Fall Break I plan on ... 
“I’ve never known any 
Going to Appalachia 

trouble that an hour’s 
Going home 

reading didn’t assuage.” 
Partying with state school friends Charles De Secondat 
Going to Vegas, baby! French lawyer & philosopher 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
The Seven Deadly Sins 
There’s nothing better than watch­ing reruns of America’s Next Top Model and eating Chinese food when you’re hung over. I love the photo shoot with the Seven Deadly Sins. This got me thinking, where did this list come from Dee Tian and why are they so evil? Confessions 
I did some re-of a Christian search: Pope Greg-Party Girl ory the Great edited Charles Panati’s list of wicked human passions and ranked them from worst (the most offensive to love) to least. 
Luckily, I’m guilty of them all. 

Pride: I know we should give glory to God for our achievements and success­es. However, it’s easy to think “Wow, I’m awesome, I did that.” In everyday life, being proud, having self-esteem, are all good things. But to devalue oth­ers’ accomplishments or overly priori­tize oneself can be dangerous. 
I think sayings like, “You come first,” are flawed. If you love someone, sometimes you don’t put yourself first. It can’t be awful to be proud of non-superficial things, like doing well in school or getting a good job. 
I’ll admit I’m proud of the shallow things too. My friends will tell you I need to stop (half) joking about being so darn cute (Don’t worry, God smote me for being vain already). But even the deeper things … I have judged others’ romantic relations, proud that mine was so great, only to have every­thing in my relationship fall apart. 
Pride may reside in all of us, but it’s still sinful. 
Envy and Greed: Unless you’re a Franciscan monk, chances are you’ve wanted more than you had or wanted something that belonged to someone else. Isn’t that just part of human nature? Wanting more? Better? It’s how we stay motivated — to get into your dream college, that next promo­tion, the nicer car, the bigger house … At the same time, those aren’t the most important things. Maybe this has to do more with focus. We acknowledge our earthly desires but focus on our rela­tionships with God, family and friends. 
Sloth and Gluttony: For the most part, I’m okay for sloth (except when I make my 11-year-old brother bring me up a snack at noon on weekends when I’m hung over in bed), but I can see why it’s so destructive. 
Lack of motivation is to not use our God-given talents to better this world. So often we want to see change in the world, but don’t care quite enough to do anything. Now, gluttony’s a huge problem for me. I don’t see the point in drinking if I’m not going to get drunk … why the empty calories? I also have the craziest diet: I won’t touch junk food or fried foods for months, then binge and eat until I want to throw up for a few days. Why do we do this to ourselves? 
Lust: When my friends and I at­tempted (and failed) to dress up as the Seven Deadly Sins for Halloween, I was Lust. Maxim says the average woman thinks about sex 2-5 times a day … I say, there’s no way it’s that low. I’ve made excuses for being lustful. I say, God, I don’t have premarital sex, while many people do, so can’t I at least think about and do other sexual things? 
I already know his answer. Sexual­ity is natural and beautiful. I think it must be “evil” in excess, yet it’s glori­fied in today’s pop culture. Our culture is obsessed with sex — premarital sex is portrayed as exciting, fun, often emotionless and problem-free. While we blame so many things on the media, isn’t it we who make media, reflect and consume it? 
Wrath: I’m easily irritated, annoyed and impatient. Doesn’t sound like I’m much fun to be around either huh? Are hot tempers something we can over­come? 
I physically can’t control myself from feeling angry or rolling my eyes when someone is rude. I can’t hold a grudge if someone wrongs me and then sincerely apologizes, but I can’t help but feel the ones who don’t acknowl­edge their wrongs don’t deserve to be forgiven. 

Recently, I learned that forgiveness is often for the forgiver, not the for­given. It’s exhausting staying angry at someone. Jesus preached to forgive those who did not deserve it. That’s the whole point of mercy. We didn’t deserve eternal life, yet Jesus was willing to die for us. If we only forgive and love those who forgive and love us, how are we any different from the rest of the world? Bitterness is also poisonous. I often am bitter if I feel that I’m giv­ing more than I’m receiving. But isn’t that also what Jesus preached? It’s a blessing to give more than we get. Our reward is in heaven. 
I know God’s disappointed when we fall short of his holiness, but it’s inevi­table. Does that mean it’s okay to not try? Just because your parents love you unconditionally, is it okay to continue to do things that make them cry every night? So why do we continue to hurt and offend our Heavenly Father? 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing major with minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

God-Quad’s playlist 
Dear Men Of Sorin,

      As the not-so-great DMX raps in a hit song that you blared from your dorm on Friday afternoon, “Y’all gon’ make me lose my mind, up in here.” 
This past weekend, I made my second return to campus since I graduated last May. I spent Friday afternoon doing some of the obligatory football weekend visitor activities with my mom and younger sister — walking around campus, going to the bookstore and visiting the Grotto. 
During this time, I passed between Sorin and the Basilica as speakers in Sorin showered God Quad with obscenities from the aforementioned DMX tune. I found myself nearly yelling over my 13-year-old sister to distract her from words coming out of the speakers. The otherwise beautiful football weekend atmosphere, perhaps unrivaled elsewhere on campus, was temporarily blight­ed by DMX’s crude lyricism, rough lyrics even by the standards of a genre whose artists seldom preoccupy with political correct­ness. 
This is not a condemnation of rap music, nor am I attempting to single out Sorin. For the many dorms across campus that have prime real estate on the quads, playing music, especially very loudly, makes any hangout more enjoyable. 
However, I encourage all who do this to exercise caution and censorship in song selection, especially when campus is at peak capacity with thousands of weekend visitors. As most students know without the need for this reminder, both rap songs and our Basilica are better off with at least 100 yards of separation between them. 
To conclude, I remind you of the famous words uttered by Spi­derman’s Uncle Ben when he was a sales associate at Circuit City, “With great speaker power comes great responsibility.” 
I will be back for the USC game and I look forward to hearing a revamped, God-Quad friendly playlist. 
Thoughtfully yours, 

Gavin Labate 
Class of 2011 alumnus Oct. 9 

UWIRE Exceptions to American exceptionalism 
As the Republican party bounces around ideas for its nomination for the next presi­dential election, many candidates and their supporters insist wholeheartedly that they are “American Exceptionalists” and therefore the true conservatives and Americans. Niki Harris 
For a term used so often, no one seemed to really The Hillsdale know what it means. One of Collegian many meanings the phrase assumes a divinely or­dained mission given especially to the United States as the beacon of morality in the world — or that American forefathers founded our country on uniquely inspired principles — or that God has exempted America from the trends of history, sometimes calling America the “New Israel” and Americans “God’s chosen people.” 
American exceptionalism often also takes a more secular definition, simply the idea that “We got it right” accompanied by a feeling of superiority and eminence over any other coun­try: past, present or future. 
There appears an inherent hypocrisy with some of these concepts and how they have used in American politics. “We believe in equality, therefore we’re the best.” “We be­lieve in self-government, so let us set up your government for you.” “We’re the heirs of the Western Christian tradition, therefore no one has thought of our principles before.” 
As we all remember from American heri­tage — sorry, freshman — Edmund Burke characterized the American Revolution as a conservative force, which is certainly how the founding fathers thought of their actions. This essential motive differentiates the American Founding from the Reign of Terror in the French Revolution. 
They meant to restore the rights and privi­leges of Englishmen that they had enjoyed be­fore, to get back to how things were, not to do something radical, new, or exceptional. In fact, few to none of the principles of the founding were uniquely or originally American. 
It was Russian dictator Joseph Stalin who coined American exceptionalism to mean what he saw as America’s delusion of exclusion from the natural course of the world. 

It would be difficult and irresponsible to attempt to anachronistically claim the found­ing generation as “American exceptionalist” or not, but we can see how the term has been used since its birth in the twentieth century. Colonization, imperialism, and foreign wars have all been justified by American excep­tionalism – “making the world safe for democ­racy,” spreading Americanism, and sentiments of moral supremacy. How are these conserva­tive values? 
“Conservatism, I repeat, is not an ideol­ogy,” Russell Kirk explained. “It does not try to excite the enthusiasm of a secular religion. If you want men who will sacrifice their past and present and future to a system of abstract ideas, you must go to Communism, or Fascism, or Benthamism.” 
“The high–minded conservative detests Ab­straction, or the passion for forcing men and societies into a preconceived pattern divorced from the special circumstances of different times and countries,” he said. 
This lies at the heart of conservatism — understanding the context of one’s time and place — that the American is obligated to love his country over all others just as the Irish­man is obligated to love his country and so on. The word “patriotism,” should inspire a famil­ial bond with our home. We love it because it is ours, not because we love abstractions about it that can blind us to its fallibility and mortality. 
The conservative places himself first with God and Church; then family, community, state, and country; and finally humanity, instead of in the un-conservative, national­istic, ideological, perverted patriotism called American exceptionalism. 
This article originally ran in the Oct. 7 version of The Hillsdale Collegian, serving Hillsdale College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, October 10, 2011 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Gentlemen Hall, a band hailing from Boston, rocked the LaFortune Ballroom last Thursday after per­forming in Kentucky earlier that same day. The group’s infectious, electropop set included songs from its new album, “When We All Disap­pear.” Guitarist and vocalist Gavin Merlot and flutist Seth Hacen, a South Bend native whose story of joining the band includes an Oompa-Loompa costume, spoke to Scene about their experiences in the band. 
Why the name “Gentlemen Hall”? 
They’re two words that fit well to­gether. 
Would you say electro-pop/synthpop accurately describ es your genre? 
In the past decades there have always been obvious genres. We’ve reached a point where there’s such a reach and mix of genres. We guess the only form we’ve ever had is good, catchy songs with strong hooks. 

How do you reconcile and synthesize different mu­sical back­grounds when making music? 
When we started the band, it was kind of tricky. We each come from jazz, rock, blues, classical, funk … everybody has a completely differ­ent background. We had to figure out how we can meld all these different styles. I would say that’s the biggest milestone. It took a couple of years and hundreds of songs. It took a long time being comfortable with what each of us felt they were bringing to the group. A big part was our produc­er. He helped us and worked with us, telling us what songs “sounded like Gentlemen Hall.” It’s hard for a band to find a sound. We stumbled across it by writing a lot of material. 

What is the coolest thing you’ve ever done as a band? 
Recording the album. That was also a spiritual milestone. We were all together trying to make the best album in our entire lives having been in bands before. It took months in a studio with 16-hour days. It was off the schedule of normal life, literally just writing this album and being so proud of it. It was the hardest work, but the most rewarding. Now we get to tour on it. It’s sweet. 
What is the biggest catastrophe you’ve faced performing as a band? 
We played a basement party in Bos­ton, and previously we had written a song, “Take me Under.” Before we did the show, we were really excited, thinking we should play this at the show even though we haven’t actu­ally rehearsed it. We had only played it once or twice, but went to the show and tried to play it. We forgot the 
words and were just mouthing it, not singing, the synth parts completely for­gotten … that was the biggest dive bomb ever. It was super fun though. We’ll never forget that show. 
When did you first know mu­sic was going to be a huge part of your life? 
Cobi Mike: It had to be when I heard the electric guitar. My mom’s friend brought one to my house. He brought it in and showed my brother and me. I must have been 10 or 11, but at 
that moment it was over. I just want­ed to play guitar so bad. 
Gavin Merlot: My older brother had a bunch of CDs, and the first CD I ever stole was “Never Mind” by Nirvana. I listened to it like 20 times a day.  It was the beginning of the grunge era. From then on, I was obsessed. 
Seth Hachen: Between me and my twin brother, it was a battle of who can hear and find the cool new stuff. [Forget] studying, watch MTV, BET and VH1 all day. 
I think maybe that’s where our love for music videos comes from. Our first official music video is “Close to Me.” We literally just made this video, stumbled on concepts and are really proud of it. Videos make a song a dif­ferent experience. We’re working on another two videos right now. Some people don’t’ really get it until they see the video. 

Did you face any resistance 
pursing music? How did you over­come it? 
Seth Hachen: My family was re­ally supportive, and music teachers I studied with were great. They did tell me it’s really hard making music, 

but I was just like, “I don’t care, it’s 
not about ‘making it to me,’ it’s about 
making music and have fun.”  A lot of 
people are like, “You’re writing songs 
all day?” Gavin Merlot: My family is support­
ive too, 
but when 
I told my 
family I 
wa nt ed 
to go to 
music 
school, 
I got the 
speech 
about, 
“You 
have to 
separate 
hobbies 
from ca­
reer and 
pay the 
bills.” If 
you tell 
them 
you’re not 
going to 
college, 
they’ll 
send you. When they saw us on ABC, 
they had a very different tone. 


How has the Boston audience been different than other audiences? 
It’s cool they’re so supportive 
of us. We started out, grew there 
and the shows are crazy now. The Boston music scene is awesome. We are part of the community of mu­sicians. Passion Pit and The Bad Rabbits definitely influence us. Ev­eryone’s supportive of each other. There’s a really good music scene in Boston now, even another band with a flutist. 

You all attended Berklee College of Music. What kind of atmosphere is Berklee for a genre like yours? 
You’re completely surrounded by people trying to be creative all day. It’s intense. You’re all trying to make music of all genres. It’s a school where it’s more about the people you meet and connect with in the net­work. We all met after Berklee. It’s a great community. 
Tell us about the signature lem­on-flavored smoothie on the Ben & Jerry’s menu.  
We were just chilling and made this smoothie. It was so good a drink­able lemon chill. We asked Ben and Jerry’s if they would mind putting it on their menu. Ben & Jerry’s is sup­portive of the local community. We’re part of their fair trade festival, and they honored us with a menu item and kept it on. 

What is the most important thing you’ve learned through your experi­ences? 
Have fun. We’ve played with so many famous bands that aren’t having fun, LMFAO for example. That’s the peak of the worst situation 
to be in. They hate each other. Literally, back­stage they were punching each other.  When you’re in a band you see that and you’re think­ing, “They have the dream, but they’re hating the whole ex­perience.” Have fun, be nice to people.  It’s all about just hav­ing a good time. It’ll always be fun for us. 
Gentlemen Hall’s new al­bum, “When We All Disappear,” can be pur­

chased on iTunes. For more informa­tion, check out GentlemenHall.com, the band’s Facebook page, MySpace, Twitter and its YouTube channel. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

There often seems no end, dear fel­low fashionistas, to the mountain of misunderstanding we lovers of fashion face. This is a problem of grandiose proportions that needs our immedi­ate attention. 
Often, our love of fashion is ridiculed and taken entirely out of context, lead­ing to descriptive labels applied to both men and wom­en such as “shal­low,” “insecure,” Felicia “stuck up,” “narcis-Caponigri sist” and, the one we women loathe Scene Writer most of all, “high maintenance.” 

It’s time we were clear about what it really means to pay attention to and love fashion. The aforementioned la­bels only address the perceived (often incorrectly) results of a love of fashion, not the impetus for that love. A desire to dress with an eye towards trends and general chicness, paying attention to the detail of the color palette, fit and the overall message of one’s ensemble indicate not an obsession with one’s self or feelings of inadequacy without the proper outfit, but rather a desire to visually communicate with the rest of the world and to participate in a shared set of ideas and messages. 
When Coco Chanel began to use jersey as a fabric, she wasn’t think­ing about the fame it would bring her. She wanted to wear some­thing more comfortable in which she felt she could design and think better. 

Photo courtesy of Aldoshoes.com 
Likewise, when a fash-Leopard Scarf, Aldo ionista takes Shoes, $18.00. longer to do her hair, make-up and pick out an outfit for her everyday commitments, she is not worried about what other people will think. Rather, she is selecting items that will amplify her natural strength and confidence to attain the goals she has set for herself. She is no differ­ent from the engineer who slaves over his drawing board, the architect who checks that last foundation plan or the entrepreneur who revises his business strategy. 
We all strive towards worthy goals our methods are simply different. 
Perhaps the fashionista is so misun­derstood because her method is simply more visual than all the rest, more public, more flamboyantly fabulous. Now, what item embodies this misun­derstood glamour more than any oth­er? Why, anything leopard of course! 
Leopard is the one pattern that screams strength and confidence. Like our primitive ancestors who clothed 

Senior Laura Taylor models leopard. 
themselves in the animal skins of yore for protection against the elements, leopard is best used as an added confi­dence boost in the face of life’s un­certain academic weather midterms, long study sessions, evening entertain­ments, job interviews, and let’s not forget those pesky “high maintenance,” label-dropping naysayers. 
The key to this pattern is to not wear it from head to toe, but to instead incorporate it into a monochromatic ensemble. Wearing black pants and a black t-shirt? Tie a leopard scarf as a belt, wear a leopard sweater or even leopard shoes. 
Today, designers have been using leopard in more than just the tradi­tional pattern, incorporating cream, red and sometimes even blue to the mix. This simply makes leopard all the more versatile. 
A word to the wise: Matching differ­ent leopard patterns is not for the faint of heart. As with gold accessories, think of yourself as a canvas. Frame yourself with touches of leopard and stick to the same overall color scheme, whether that’s black, brown and camel or cream, black and red. Men, I sug­gest you let the ladies be the leaders of the pack on this one. “High Mainte­nance” never looked this good.   
Contact Felicia Caponigri at   fcaponig@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer.  

Wading through the excessive amount of horrible .lms on Instant Net.ix can be daunting for any subscriber. To ease the process, Scene has graciously provided a list of the best Net.ix has to offer. 
1. “Conan O'Brien Can't Stop” 
After getting the boot from NBC as the host of “The Tonight Show,” Conan O'Brien was legally prohibited from appearing on television for months after his departure. He ultimately found a home at TBS, but during his TV-hiatus, Conan took his comedy on the road with “The Legally Prohibited from Being Funny on Television Tour.” This docu­mentary follows Conan as he prepped the tour and took it around the country for a string of completely sold-out shows. The unprecedented look into Conan's life is equally hilarious and moving as he puts the pressure on himself to bring the funny. 
2. “Dear Zachary: A Letter to a Son About His Father” 
A man is killed, and his best friend makes a tribute to his unborn son through interviews with his closest friends and family. If you want to properly experience this documenta­ry, that's all you should know going into it. What will result is the most heartfelt, shocking and thrilling hour-and-a-half you'll ever experience watching a .lm. This true-crime tour de force pulls you in from the .rst seconds and never lets you go, even long after it's done. Twist after twist leaves viewers emotionally raw and exhausted at the end, but the experience is so worth it. And once more, don't look up any other details before watching. 
3. “The Big Lebowski” 

This .lm is, simply put, a cult classic. The movie is di­rected by the Coen brothers before they became Academy Award winners, and stars Jeff Bridges and John Goodman in what might be their .nest roles. The story is an absurd mystery, drawing from the classic .lm-noir the Big Sleep. It follows the Dude, or El Duderino if you're not into the whole brevity thing, a laid back old hippie who just wants compensation for a destroyed rug that really tied the room together. 
4. “Valentino: The Last Emperor” 
This intimate portrait of the famed Italian fashion house exposes the complicated process of designing impeccably beautiful clothing. Valentino himself is the picture of diva­ness, and in all honesty, it's fantastic. Who could possibly pull off having .ve pugs dripping in diamonds? Valentino, that's who. 
5. “Breakfast at Tiffany's” 
Everyone knows Audrey Hepburn's classic .lm, “Break­fast at Tiffany's.” It has a mammoth presence in pop-culture 50 years after its release and is as iconic now as it was then. But how many of you have actually seen it? Net.ix is there to .x this problem with its recent addition to Watch Instantly. Grab some tissues and your favorite pearls for a look back at the classiest of .lms. 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLaSSIFIEDS Monday, October 10, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The problem with polls 
It’s time to face two hard facts about college football. First, the polls don’t work. Second, there’s no good way to fix them. 
It’s pretty clear to anyone who watches college football that the rank­ings are essentially arbitrary. The pre­season polls come out each year based on subjective interpretations of last year’s results . with some spring practice observations taken into account if the writ­ers and coaches are feeling particularly motivated when they fill out their rankings. 
From there, the season progresses while coaches and writers move teams up and down based on just the score of the game and possibly the highlights on SportsCenter. That leads to obviously false conclusions fairly regu-



larly. For ex-So the answer is to to select its ample, Notre make the polls matter teams. Even Dame soundly less, while making the most defeated football matter more. expansive 
try are, and in what order. That’s the entire point of having the polls. The system is broken. 
What’s worse, human polls make up two-thirds of the Bowl Championship Series formula that determines who plays in the national champi­onship. This stuff matters. 
That’s why it’s time to figure out a way to fix the polls. Obviously, a computer-only system is never going to be acceptable. Fans, players and coaches alike want to feel that there are humans in control of the process. 
But the problem is that there’s no good way to make the polls better. It’s unrea­sonable to expect coaches (or really, the assistants who fill out the polls) and writers to do in-depth analysis of every game. That’s simply impos­sible. 
So the answer is to make the polls matter less, while making football matter more. 
That’s right, a playoff sys­tem. 
It wouldn’t be perfect, certainly. A playoff would 
still depend 
on rankings 
Michigan State in week three. Yet, in the week five polls, Michi­gan State still ranked above Notre Dame in both the AP and coaches’ polls. The Spartans fell from No. 15 to No. 20, but it’s absurd to argue that they are better than a team who beat them soundly just two weeks ago. 
When it comes down to it, the polls rarely, if ever, actually reflect an idea of who the top 25 teams in the country are. No matter what, a loss drops a team in the polls. It doesn’t matter whether that was a last-second loss to the top-ranked team in the country - the losing team will sink in the polls. There’s no reason for that. 
The rankings are supposed to suggest relative rankings. Teams are supposed to lose to higher-ranked teams . it should be no surprise when the No. 1 team wins. The No. 1 team beating the No. 10 team doesn’t mean the No. 10 team should drop in the polls, unless the game was a blowout. If the No. 10 team gave the No. 1 squad a close game, in fact, it should rise in the polls. But it doesn’t. 
The polls never actually give a true representation of who the best 25 teams in the coun­proposal, 
a 16-team 
playoff with 
automatic 
bids for every conference champion, relies on the polls to fill its at-large slots. 
It might not be perfect, but expanding to a playoff system keeps the polls from doing as much harm as possible. Sure, it’ll be difficult for the polls to decide between the No. 8 and No. 9 slot. But it’s a better de­cision to make than whether to leave an undefeated No. 3 Auburn team out of the national championship. Hav­ing the top four, eight or 16 teams play in a playoff would make the process fairer to everyone involved. If a team thinks it is good enough to win the national champion­ship, it can simply play its way to that championship without having to impress voters. 
So while those two facts about the polls are difficult, there’s one more fact to con­sider: a playoff would be a lot of fun. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those 
NFL 

Seahawks rally late, defeat Giants 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
— Unsung is an understate­ment for the guys who lifted the Seattle Seahawks to vic­tory Sunday. 
Doug Baldwin, Brandon Browner and Charlie White­hurst were the unlikely stars as Seattle beat the New York Giants at their own game: with a fourth-quarter rally. 
Backup quarterback Whitehurst threw a 27-yard touchdown pass to Baldwin with 2:37 to play and Brown­er returned an interception 94 yards to thwart a desper­ate, late challenge by the Gi­ants as the Seahawks won 36-25 on Sunday. 
“We believe in ourselves and we believe in each oth­er,” Baldwin said after mak­ing eight catches for 136 yards and the critical score. “It’s believing the guys next to you will do it.” 
Baldwin is an undrafted free agent from Stanford who leads the team with 20 re­ceptions. Browner is a first-year NFL player who spent four years in the Canadian Football League before join­ing the Seahawks. His romp down the right sideline — with coach Pete Carroll sprinting along with him for a few yards — finished off New York (3-2), which had rallied for victories in its last two games. 
“It was almost like slow motion, the tipped ball and it landed in my hands and it was a footrace from there,” Browner said. 
Whitehurst, who replaced the injured Tarvaris Jackson in the third quarter, led the Seahawks (2-3) on an 80-yard touchdown drive capped with his pass to Baldwin on a play in which the Giants seemed to stop after defensive end Osi Umenyiora jumped off­side. 
“I did notice that,” White­hurst said of the offside. “Leon (Washington) picked him up and they kind of stopped dead and I got the ball out of my hand quickly. Doug was wide open.” 
The Giants mounted anoth­er late drive and had first­and-goal at the Seahawks 5 after consecutive comple­tions of 41 and 19 yards to Victor Cruz. A procedure penalty on first down pushed the ball back to the 10, then Eli Manning (24 of 39 for 420 yards, three touchdowns and three interceptions) looked to Cruz one more time. His pass tipped off Cruz’s hands, bounced off Kam Chancellor and was picked off in the air at the 6-yard line by Browner, who went the distance to ice the game. 
Cruz had eight catches for 161 yards, including a 68-yard TD after Chancellor misplayed what should have been an in­terception and tipped the ball into the air. Cruz stuck out his right arm for a one-handed catch and sped the final 25 yards to score, making it 22-19 for New York. 
But Cruz couldn’t hold on to the biggest throw. 
“I thought I gripped it, but as soon as I went to grip it in, I got hit and it bobbled up in the air,” Cruz said. “I knew it was all downhill from there because there were two guys there and one of them was go­ing to pick it off.” 
Whitehurst finished 11 of 19 for 149 yards in relief of Jack­son, who was 15 of 22 for 166 yards and a touchdown before going out with a chest injury after being tackled on a third-quarter run. 
Marshawn Lynch rushed for 98 yards and a touchdown, and Steven Hauschka had field goals of 51 and 43 yards. 
Manning’s touchdown pass­es covered 13 yards to tight end Jake Ballard, 19 to Ha­keem Nicks just before half­time and the long one to Cruz, which seemingly had the Gi­ants on the road to their fourth straight win. 
Seattle dominated the third quarter with defense. It took a 16-14 lead on a safety by An­thony Hargrove on a tackle on a play that started at the Gi­ants 5. 
“I came inside and beat the guard and all I saw was a guy in blue in the end zone,” Har­grove said. 

The lead grew to 19-14 on the long field goal by Hausch­ka, and then the fun started in the fourth quarter. 
The Seahawks should have gone to the locker room at halftime with at least a seven-point lead, but instead found themselves tied at 14 after Gi­ants cornerback Aaron Ross picked off Jackson’s throw at the New York 41 with less than a minute to play. Manning then completed four straight passes, the final one cover­ing 19 yards to a diving Nicks in the right corner of the end zone. 
The interception wasn’t the only mistake for Seattle, which lost two fumbles deep in Gi­ants territory. Lynch lost one at the 11 in the first quarter and Michael Robinson lost the other on a first-and-goal from the 2 in the second quarter. 
The Seahawks also let a golden opportunity slip away just before halftime when Manning could not handle a low snap from center Kevin Boothe. It appeared linebacker Leroy Hill had a chance to re­cover the ball, but he missed and Boothe fell on it. 
Still, Seattle scored more points in the first 12 minutes of this game than it did in the last two games against New York, when the Seahawks were outscored 85-13. 
The game opened with the teams exchanging lightning-fast 8-yard touchdown drives. 
Ben Obomanu scored on an 11-yard pass in the flat that caught the Giants in a blitz, while Ballard carried line­backer David Hawthorne the final 2 yards on a 13-yard TD pass up the middle. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Seinfeld Quotes: “Hi, my name is George, I’m “I had a dream last night that a 
FOR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL 
unemployed and I live with my hamburger was eating me!” - Jerry “Boy, these pretzels are makin’ me parents.” - George Costanza Seinfeld thirsty.” - Cosmo Kramer 
“I figured since I was lying about 

Cheap 2 room studio $440 Email UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t “How can the same street intersect “I’ll sniff out a deal. I have a sixth my income for a couple of years, DaveMichiganTEKK@gmail.com go it alone. Notre Dame has many with itself? It must be at the nexus sense.” -George Costanza I could afford a fake house in the incl util USC GAs desperately needed. resources in place to assist you. 
of the universe.” - Cosmo Kramer Hamptons”-George Costanza 
Top $$ If you or someone you love needs 574-277-1659 confidential support or assistance, 
“The sea was angry that day, my “I don’t think I’ve ever been to an “Who buys an umbrella anyway? 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 friends - like an old man trying to appointment in my life where I You can get them for free at the or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more send back soup in a deli.”- George wanted the other guy to show up.”- coffee shop in those metal cans.” - Large 4BR $840. 10 mo lease, 3 mi information, visit ND’s website at: Costanza George Costanza George Costanza S of SMC. call Dave 574-286-1384 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish disappoint in Invitational 

ourselves right now more than other teams are beating us,” Holt said. “We’re making lots of men­tal errors. It’s very sloppy. We’re making it harder than it needs to be on ourselves. All of the girls have things they need to work on.” 
The Irish will need to look forward fast, as the team’s next tournament is in just a week’s time. 
“It’s disappointing. It’s frus­trating. There’s a lot of negatives right now,” Holt said. “We have to use this [as a learning experi­ence]. We need to continue to do what we need to do in practice to get better. We’ll have an off-day [Monday], and then our next tournament is in a week. We need to make the most of our time.” 
The Irish will return to the links with something to prove Oct. 17 at the Indiana University Fall Invitational. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at           wheffero@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles lose to Calvin in three sets 
Observer Staff Report 

The Belles faced a tough op­ponent Saturday and were ulti­mately dominated by undefeated Calvin. The Knights (18-0, 10-0 MIAA) topped Saint Mary’s (6­9, 4-6) on three straight sets by scores of 25-18, 25-15, and 25-13. 
The Belles put up a good fight, starting on a strong note in the first set by hitting .452 with 14 kills and no errors, before the Knights eventually won. 
They also managed to trade points and maintain ties in the second set before Calvin broke a 14-14 tie and went on a run that led to a victory. 
The Knights put the Belles away early during the third set, as they jumped ahead by seven points and never looked back en route to their greatest margin of victory during the match. 
Despite the resounding win and convincing numbers, Calvin coach Amber Warners felt that the statistics were not indicative of the high level of intensity and competition the match featured. 
“The score did not depict how the match went.  St. Mary’s is a very scrappy team that plays with discipline,” Warners said. 
Freshman outside hitter Kati Schneider led Saint Mary’s with 12 kills, while junior outside hit­ter Stephanie Bodien chipped in with 10 kills and a .357 hitting av­erage. Junior setter Danie Brink contributed assists to 26 of the Belles’ kills, and freshman setter and defensive specialist Annie Bodien had a team-high nine digs. 
Any success the Belles have enjoyed this season, whether in a win or loss, is due in no small part to the play of their freshmen. Freshman outside hitter Meredith Mersits, freshman setter Em­ily Getz, Schneider and Bodien played in all three sets. 
Saint Mary’s next takes the court Wednesday when the team hosts Olivet. The annual Dig for the Cure match tips off at 7 p.m. 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish enjoyed their most successful season ever last year, reaching the NCAA champion­ship for the first time in program history. They won four tourna­ments, and Irish coach Susan Holt was named Big East Coach of the Year. That previous level of success, however, has yet to carry over to this season. 
Notre Dame’s struggles contin­ued this weekend at the highly competitive Tar Heel Invitational at the UNC Finley Golf Course in Chapel Hill, N.C. The Irish fin­ished with a team score of 909 (+45) for last place, 53 strokes behind champion LSU (-8). Of the 18 teams in the tournament, 12 were ranked in the top-25, and the field quickly pulled away. 
“The quality of the field was in­credible here,” Holt said. “When you play teams like that, you need to show up. We’ve got a good team, but we just couldn’t get it done.” 
While the team may have struggled early on, the Irish were able to rally on Sunday to turn in a +9 score as a team, their best round of the year. On top of that, four of the team’s five golfers turned in their lowest rounds of the tournament. Holt said, how­ever, that the day was not without its flaws. 
“Today we did shoot our low round of the year, and that’s en­couraging,” she said. “But we all picked up shots coming down the stretch. What could have been a really good day was just an okay day. When we have scores in hand, we’ve got to get it done and get it in the clubhouse.” 
Moving forward, the team will have a number of things to work on before the season ends. With just two tournaments left this fall, Notre Dame will continue pro­gressing ahead of the important conference and national tourna­ments in the spring, Holt said. 
“Bottom line, we’re beating 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Monday, October 10, 2011 
SMC GOLF 

Belles’ fall season ends with third place finish 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles’ fall season came to an end Saturday with the conclusion of the MIAA cham­pionships at Bedford Valley Golf Course, leaving the Belles in a very unfamiliar position. 
Saint Mary’s finished third in the conference standings be­hind first place Olivet and sec­ond place Hope, making this the first time since 2006 that the Belles did not finish the season in either first or second in the MIAA. 
Although the team put forth several impressive individual performances this season, the Belles failed to put forth a com­plete round as a team, Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. 
“I think it felt like we never gelled with four scores this year, and we came close,” he said. “The teams that beat us seemed to have one or two tournaments where they had four good scores on the board, so that was the big difference I felt.” 
The Belles entered the week­end tournament 45 strokes back of first place, but slipped fur­ther down the leaderboard as Hope and Olivet both put forth impressive performances in the final two rounds of the season. 
Olivet headed into Friday’s round 15 strokes out of first place, but after turning in rounds of 325 and 315, took home the conference title by 10 strokes. Saint Mary’s recorded rounds of 337 each in the two rounds. 
Although the Belles were not able to challenge for the confer­ence title more intensely this season, Hamilton said his team showed enough promise to be in a good position for the spring season. 
“The last couple of days really weren’t too bad,” he said. “We saw some bright spots. We have some things to work on this winter. We’ve got some play­ers coming back from studying abroad that I think will chal­lenge for some spots in the top five, and I think that will make a difference.” 
Among the bright spots for the Belles this fall were the seasons put forth by senior co-captains Natalie Matuszak and Christine Brown, who were named to the All-MIAA first team and All-MIAA second team, respective­ly. Matuszak led the Belles in the conference championships with her combined score of 159, the lowest score earned by any golfer not from Olivet, and the fourth-best score overall. 
The spring season is com­prised of just three rounds of golf that determine the confer­ence’s automatic qualifier to the NCAA tournament. To make sure they perform well in the spring, the Belles will focus on reducing their errors on the course. 
“I would say some of the un­forced errors that we were still having we need to get better at,” Hamilton said. “It was getting better at the end of the season, but we had some unforced er­rors that we can’t [be making].” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at       jmonardo@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s dominates in win over Comets 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s smothered the Olivet attack Saturday, outshoot­ing the Comets 20-4 en route to a 3-0 victory. 
The Belles (8-5, 4-5 MIAA) sti­fled the Comets (2-11, 2-7) from the beginning of the game, not allowing a single shot until the 33rd minute. Junior midfielder Rebecca Gaarde recorded two of the Comets’ four shots, including their only shot on goal. 
“Olivet is a decent side, but maybe does not have as deep a roster as we do,” Belles coach Mi­chael Joyce said. “They had the same three-games-in-five-days schedule, and I think they were a little worn down from the week.” 
Sophomore forward Jordan Diffenderfer corralled the ball from a scrum in front of the goal and sunk it into the goal to give the Belles a 1-0 lead in the 21st minute, and scoring for both sides froze for the next 50 min­utes of play. 
“The game was 1-0 for a long time, but it never seemed like the win was in jeopardy,” Joyce said. “I think that last 30 minutes we totally dominated the game.” 
With 20 minutes left in the game, first year forward Kelly Wilson drove into the box, luring Olivet freshman goalkeeper Patty Groh away from her net. Belles senior defender Keely Noonan beat Groh to the ball, and lofted it into the net for her first goal of the season. 
In the 81st minute, Diffenderfer recorded her fifth goal of the year after receiving an assist from freshman midfielder Hillary Bur­ton. Saturday’s match marked the first time Diffenderfer scored more than one goal in a game in her collegiate career. 
“Jordan also [did] a great job getting in the right spots to score,” Joyce said. “Hopefully Jordan can build on today and keep scoring consistently.” 
Joyce also had praise for other members of his squad. 
“[Sophomore midfielder] Mol­lie Valencia really stood out, not only yesterday but all week. We had three games in five days, and she played every minute at center-mid and worked tirelessly each game,” Joyce said. “[First year defenders] Kerry Green and Mary Kate Hussey were solid in the back and didn’t give Olivet too many chances to see the goal.” 
The win puts Saint Mary’s in sixth place with 12 points in the MIAA conference standings and 12 points behind first place Adri­an. Olivet sits in seventh place with six points. 


Although his squad missed a have liked,” Joyce said. “We eas­few chances, Joyce said he was ily could have scored 5 or 6 goals, pleased with the Belles’ overall but I’m happy we kept putting performance. ourselves in great positions to 
“We created a lot of good op-score.” portunities on goal yesterday . we The Belles have a week off be­didn’t convert as many as I would fore they travel to Alma for the last of four straight road games. They will kick off against the Scots at noon Saturday at Scot­land Yard in Alma, Mich. 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at           vjacobse@nd.edu 

Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
Duluth 
continued from page 16 

the net. Notre Dame was then hamstrung by penalties and turnovers, and Minnesota-Duluth converted on two Irish giveaways to take a 2-1 lead. 
“We turned the puck over a lot on Friday,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Maybe that was because of nervousness or the crowd, but we had some mis­takes and they capitalized.” 
Despite their initial rusti­ness, the Irish entered the third period tied 3-3 after a power-play goal from soph­omore right winger Mike Voran. Notre Dame was un­able to hold the lead though, as Bulldogs senior center Tra­vis Oleksuk beat junior goal­tender Mike Johnson for what proved to be the game-win­ning goal. 
Despite making 27 saves in the game, including 14 in the second period, Johnson was lifted for Saturday’s game, and sophomore goalie Steven Summerhays got the second start of the weekend between the pipes. 
“We went into the season knowing that we’d try to get both [Johnson and Summer-hays] some games,” Jackson said. “So that was part of the plan. I thought they both played okay.” 
Notre Dame got off to a slower start in the second game of the weekend, as Summerhays surrendered a couple of early goals and the Bulldogs jumped ahead 2-0. The Irish halved the lead on a second-period goal by junior left winger Nick Larson, but the team was ignited after sophomore center TJ Tynan evened the score with the third shorthanded goal of his career. 
The shorthanded unit con­tinued to dominate in the game, allowing the Bulldogs just one goal in 27 minutes of power-play time. Notre Dame then rattled off three unanswered goals, and held on through the third period for the series-splitting win. 
“We’re still feeling our way through personnel on special teams,” Jackson said. “We’re evaluating guys in different positions, and some guys are stepping up. So we’re start­ing to get a clearer picture there.” 
With the opening weekend of the regular season behind them, the Irish now head home for another week of practice before hosting Ohio State in the last two games at the Joyce Center. Jackson says he’s looking forward to both the additional practice time and the home stand against the Buckeyes. 
“There are certainly some things we still have to work on,” he said. “It’s still the second week, and we’ve had maybe a half-dozen practic­es. We’ve seen some positive signs, and we see that we’re improving at some areas that were focal points com­ing into the year. We’ve got to get ready for Ohio State . they’re a quality team. We want to send the Joyce Cen­ter out in grand fashion.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at         wheffero@nd.edu 


Fox 
continued from page 16 
Dame’s defense has now held the opposition scoreless for four consecutive games. 
Waldrum said moving Schuveiller to midfield has paid dividends for the Irish. 
“[Four consecutive shut­outs] means they’re coming around a little. Moving Jess Schuveiller into [the midfield] helps to solidify our midfield and defense,” Waldrum said. “[Freshman defender] Sammy Scofield has played well for us in the back, and we got a few good minutes out of [senior de­fender] Ellen Bartindale. They weren’t regulars earlier in the year. I think it’s coming togeth­er at the right time.” 

The Irish are fully aware that they are still in the mix to win the Big East conference cham­pionship outright. Notre Dame will have home-field advantage in a series of games remaining on their schedule. 
Waldrum said the Irish can only control their own destiny, but admitted he was keeping a close eye on respective first and second place Georgetown and Louisville in the stand­ings. 
“Georgetown’s going to be huge, and Villanova is never an easy game. Those will be key games to see whether we can win the conference champion­ship outright or win it in the tournament,” Waldrum said. The disappointing thing is the students will be gone [during the upcoming home stand]. We really needed the students there, but hopefully the locals will come out and support us because it’s a huge weekend for us.” 
Notre Dame returns home for its final three regular-season games, beginning with Georgetown on Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Monday, October 10, 2011 
had nine saves for Connecticut, Blake to be equal to the task “It was really great to play As they move forward, the 
Clark 

including several on shots from on every occasion. In the 80th Michael Rose, he’s been out Irish will change gears slightly 
continued from page 16 
but how you are judged as a good team is wins, and obvi­ously we have got to start piling up some wins,” Clark said. 
The Irish came out on top in most statistical categories for the game, as they outshot Connecticut 21-16, including 9-4 in shots on goal. The Irish also had seven corner kicks to Connecticut’s one. Senior goal­keeper Will Walsh completed his fourth shutout of the season for the Irish. 
Notre Dame earned the bulk of the game’s scoring opportu­nities, but was not able to knock home the go-ahead goal. Fresh­man goalkeeper Andre Blake 
Frilling 
continued from page 16 
not find a rhythm in any of the eight games played. 
“I think we just need to get some more matches in and work on adding some versatil­ity in our game plans,” Frilling said. 
Frilling was also eliminated from the consolation bracket of singles play on Friday in her match against Lindsey Hard­enburgh from Virginia. Frill­ing lost quickly in the first game, 6-1, then battled with Hardenburgh in the second set before dropping it 6-3, elimi­nating her from competition. 
“I need to work on my fore­hand. I lost confidence in it within his team’s own box. 
“I think you run into what’s a really good goal keeper,” Clark said. “These were great shots. [Junior midfielder Ryan] Finley and [senior midfielder Adam] Mena hit some great shots … We were through on goal, we had good shots from inside the box and [Blake] came up big every time. So that was disap­pointing for us, but I’m sure he must be one of the reasons why they are undefeated.” 
The Irish began peppering the Connecticut goalie early, as sophomore forward Leon Brown and Mena each had shots blocked in the first half by a diving Blake. Finley let loose a game-high seven shots, four of which were on target, but found 
easily,” Frilling said. “It’s re­ally important for me to work on it every day.” 
Saturday, the doubles pair lost in the doubles consola­tion bracket against Kristi Boxx and Abbie Guthrie from Mississippi. 
“We played a lot better,” Frilling said. “I think despite losing, [the match] added a positive note. We know what we are capable of, so it is just a matter of being able to per­form that way.” 
The Irish will compete in their first tournament as a complete team on Oct. 20 in the Midwest Regional Quali­fying tournament in Colum­bus, Ohio. 
Contact Katie Heit at              kheit@nd.edu 
minute, Finley finally managed to maneuver a shot past Blake, only to have what looked to be the deciding score rebound off the post. 
Although the Irish did not score a goal in the contest, Clark said he was pleased with his team’s performance Satur­day. 
“I thought we played well, concentration was superb throughout and it was hard to really find a flaw in our team,” he said. “I thought all the subs came on and gave a lift.” 
Senior midfielder Michael Rose made his season debut for the Irish, playing the entire second half after missing the first 10 games while recovering from a knee injury. 
McHugh 
continued from page 16 
errors,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “I think we were also able to control the ball well on our side of the net, and against Pitt we came up with some good blocks.” 
Brown said beating teams like the Mountaineers, who have struggled this season, re­quires an understanding and respect of the opponent. 
“It’s always a challenge to keep the team from overlook­ing certain schools, and we addressed it,” Brown said. “We just told them this week that each team we play in the Big East has some really good players and motivation to beat with an ACL [injury], but he gives a lot of depth,” Clark said. 

Saturday’s game serves as yet another example of the Irish playing up to the standards of top-ranked opponents. In its past four games, Notre Dame suffered a 2-1 overtime loss to then No. 15 St. Johns, captured a 1-0 victory over then No. 3 Louisville, tied 1-1 with un­ranked Northwestern and now adds a tie to No. 1 Connecticut. 
“I think this team knows we can play with anyone, but I think we can also play down to people as well,” Clark said. “But I think … when we play the Lousivilles, the St. John’s and the UConns, I don’t find that a huge problem because we were [competitive].” 
us. West Virginia has five se­niors who were really motivated to beat Notre Dame. We had to make sure not to underestimate their abilities. It’s a matter of respecting your opponent and always bringing your ‘A’ game.” 
Among those bringing their “A” games this weekend were freshmen outside hitters Toni Alugbue and Jeni Houser. Alug­bue finished with nine kills at 
a .615 rate against Pittsburgh, and tied Houser for the team lead with five blocks. Against West Virginia, the two fresh­men each recorded nine kills. The rookies played with the confidence of veterans, Brown said. 
“Both are doing a great job,” Brown said of Alugbue and Houser. “They are really good blockers, and they play with a in preparation for their upcom­ing game against Marquette (5­5-2, 3-0-0). 

“We’ve got a game on Wednes­day at Marquette and that will be a different type of game,” Clark said. “Going from a game with a team [Connecticut] that was very silky, very technical, it’ll be much more of a battle with Marquette. Marquette has skillful players as well, don’t get me wrong, but it will be a different type of game.” 
The Irish continue their Big East campaign when they trav­el to Milwaukee for Wednes­day’s game against the Golden Eagles. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at        jmonardo@nd.edu 

lot of poise. They don’t play like freshmen, they don’t get rattled or flustered and they come back well after a missed shot. Our setters aren’t afraid to come back to them after a miss.” 
The team has seen the fresh­men as important assets for a long time, Brown said. 
“At the beginning of the sea­son, we knew they had a lot to bring, we just didn’t know how to use them,” she said. “They can play left, middle or right so they have really been versatile for us and have helped us out a lot this season.” 
The Irish will travel to Chica­go on Friday to face DePaul at 7 
p.m. for another Big East match on the road. 
Contact Cory Bernard at           cbernard@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  66  67  
68  69  70  
71  72  73  

Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Perry Mason's 1 Necklace field fasteners 
37 Kitchen cleanup 
7 “Entourage” 
cloth
cable channel 
41 Samuel 
10 Talks like this in “Star Wars” films Langhorne ___ he does 44 Simile's center 
14 Cut the mustard 
45 Author Asquith 
15 Dada artist Jean 
of children's 
16 Landed 
books 
17 Property with a 

47 511, in old Rome 
mansion 18 “Fat chance, 48 Not a unanimous laddie” ruling19 Griffin who 52 Role in “Young 
created “Wheel 
Frankenstein”
of Fortune” 55 “Laughing” 
20 Charleston is its capital animal 23 “All seats have 
56 Biblical word 
been sold” sign 
with “thou” 
24 First part of a ski 
jump 58 Deposit, as an egg
25 Longest river inDeutschland 60 Swedish liquor 29 ___, Crackle and with memorable Pop ads 31 Trumpet's saliva­
63 Melt 
draining key33 Skirt's edge 66 Qty. 35 ___ Paulo, Brazil 67 Jack the ___ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


68 Elvis's “___ Las Vegas” 
69 Doctor's charge 70 Log-in info71 Fix, as a cat 72 Finish 73 Eagle's grabbers 
Down 
1 Masticates 2 Focused-beam emitters 3 Takes steps in
response to 4 32-card game 5 Venomous 
snake 6 Oktoberfest vessel 7 Abrupt finishesto phone
conversations 8 Genius 9 Ready for
business 10 Japanesemotorcycle
maker 11 Bullfight cheer12 North, east, west 
or south: Abbr. 13 Off-road transport, briefly21 Four Monopolyproperties: Abbr.22 Chicagocolumnist Kupcinet26 Fashion magazinefounded in 
France 27 ___ the Terrible 28 What literally 
comes from the north, east, westand south? 
30 “Feels great!”32 Informed 34 Sportscaster
Albert 
WILL SHORTz 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Patrick Merrell 
37 Bit of Morse 46 Stiffly phrased 59 Distance units code on a football
49 Sort of 

field children's game 50 Indenting key 61 Not threatened 
39 Common event 51 College Web site 62 German car the day after suffix 63 Appliances Thanksgiving hidden in seven 38 Look-for-it 
53 One who knows 

40 Favorable sign answers in this 
the ropes 

42 Permit for puzzleleaving a country 54 Earn tons of, as 64 It's rotated when 
dough

43 Russian fighter doing the twist jet 57 Walk proudly 65 Palindromic girl 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE KELLy LyNCH and JOE MILLER 


J


JEFF KNUREK DAVID L. HOyT 
Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


DOPUR  

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
EADGA TINNOO NRAERB  

Answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: PATCH NEEDY FOSSIL BURROWYesterday’s 
Answer: He thought locking up his poker winningswas this — A SAFE BET 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, October 10, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 
No. 11 Notre Dame ties nation’s No. 1 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish needed extra time once again in their contest against Connecticut, but even in 110 minutes of play, neither team was able to notch a goal. 
No. 11 Notre Dame (5-2-4, 1-1­1 Big East) earned a tie against No. 1 Connecticut (11-0-1, 2-0-1) on Saturday, bringing an end to the Huskies’ 11 game winning streak. The game was the sev­enth overtime affair of the sea­son, contests in which the Irish are 1-2-4. 
“Let’s be honest. If we were playing in Europe, we would be undefeated at the moment because all of our losses have been in overtime,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
Although it became the first team to escape from a matchup against Connecticut without a loss, Notre Dame could have used a win at home, Clark said. 
“We know we’re a good team, 
see CLARK/page 14 

Hanging tough 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame sweeps two road wins 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

The Irish evened their Big East conference record with a pair of straight-set road victo­ries. Wins against Pittsburgh and West Virginia helped them reclaim in-conference confi­dence and live up to their sec­ond rank in the preseason Big East Coaches’ Poll. 
Saturday, the Irish (10-6, 3-3 Big East) swept Pittsburgh 3-0 behind a 10-kill, 12-dig effort from sophomore outside hitter Andrea McHugh. Notre Dame also recorded 10.5 team blocks against the Panthers (12-7, 3-3). 
The Irish then dominated West Virginia on Sunday behind 16 kills from senior outside hit­ter Kristen Dealy, who hit at a .533 clip for the day. The Moun­taineers (4-12, 2-4) hit only .088 in the match, including .000 for the final set. 
“[Pittsburgh and West Virgin­ia] had a lot of unforced 
see McHUGH/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame has undefeated weekend in New Jersey 
By MEGAN GOLDEN Owen T. Carroll Field in South “Friday night against Seton scoreless tie against the Scar-I thought we had a couple good Sports Writer Orange, N.J. Hall we played a good first half. let Knights. possessions in overtime. It was Senior midfielder and tri-We weren’t very good in the Notre Dame outshot Rutgers disappointing that we didn’t 
The Irish avoided another captain Jessica Schuveiller second half against Seton Hall, 21-9 with 5-4 shots on goal and get the win, but we didn’t lose, mark in the loss column dur-gave the Irish an early 1-0 lead but we did enough to get the recorded eight corner kicks to either.” ing their weekend road trip against the Pirates, taking shut-out and win,” Irish coach Rutgers’ three. Glancing at the The Irish have yet to record a with a 0-0 double-overtime tie advantage of sophomore mid-Randy Waldrum said. “It was a stat sheet, Waldrum said the win in overtime, falling to 0-2­against Rutgers and a 2-0 win fielder Mandy Laddish’s cross real plus from that standpoint Irish were dominant in most 3 in games forced into the ex-over Seton Hall. just under four minutes into because we had been strug-categories but were simply un-tra minutes this season. 
Even without senior starting the game. gling to close out games like able to come up with a win at Irish junior goalkeeper Mad-forward and tri-captain Melis-Notre Dame’s final goal came that before.” Rutgers’ Yurcak Field. die Fox collected four saves sa Henderson in the first half of at the 21:52 mark, when fresh-The Irish continued their “Looking at the stats now, against both the Pirates and the game, the Irish (7-5-3, 4-2-man forward Lauren Bohaboy road trip Sunday at Rutgers (7-we played really well today. We Scarlet Knights, as Notre 2 Big East) still shut out Seton netted her sixth goal of the 6-2, 2-4-2), where their three-just couldn’t get the goal to win Hall (7-5-2, 3-4) on Friday at season. game win streak ended after a it,” he said. “We outshot them. see FOX/page 13 
HOCKEY 

Irish split series with champs 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Following just one exhibition match and a handful of prac­tices, Notre Dame eased into its regular season schedule with a pair of games against the de­fending national champions in front of 6,000 hostile fans. After losing 4-3 to Minnesota-Duluth in the opener, the Irish (1-1) ral­lied to take a 5-3 win over the Bulldogs (1-1) on Saturday. 
In Friday’s matchup, the Irish came out strong and grabbed an early lead when senior right winger Billy Maday one-timed a pass from sophomore left wing­er Jeff Costello into the back of 
see DULUTH/page 17 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Seniors unable to win All-American honors 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

Seniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews fell short in both singles and doubles play at the All-American championships this weekend in Pacific Palisades, Calif. 
“It definitely was a rough week, and I think moving forward we want to just keep working hard in practice and try [to] forget about our results,” Frilling said. “We may have lost, but now it’s all about how we come back and prepare to win.” 
At the start of doubles play Friday, Mathews and Frilling faced off against Brynn Boren and Sarah Toti from Tennes­see. The Irish partners were the fifth-ranked and fourth-seeded doubles pair in the main draw and had a bye in the first round, but their high ranking couldn’t help them secure a win in the second round against the Volun­teers’ pair. 
Mathews and Frilling lost to Boren and Toti in an 8-0 decision, as the Irish could 
see FRILLING/page 14 





